CHAPTER XXVI. METHODS OF EXAMINATION OF THE NOSE AND THE ACCESSORY CAVITIES. In examining the nose the attention should in the first place be directed to its general shape and to the presence or absence of folds or creases on the alae nasi indicative of nasal obstruction. Any prominence or bulging in the regions of the accessory cavities should be observed. The shape of the teeth and jaws should also be noted, and whether the patient habitually breathes through the mouth; the neck should be examined for enlarged glands, especially behind the sterno-mastoids. Illumination.—For the examination of the interior of the nose artificial light must be used. Sunlight or strong daylight may be utilised when available, but is not always to be relied upon, and the latter is not sufficiently strong for the examination of the post-nasal space. Of artificial lights, the electric light, gas (either in the form of an Argand or an incandescent burner), the oxy-hydrogen lime-light or an ordinary parafine lamp are those most generally employed. The brilliant illuminant acetylene gas is not yet sufficiently reliable. The electric light.—The electric light is the most generally convenient whenever it can be obtained. The best form of lamp is shown in Fig 99, which may be arranged to stand upon a table, be fixed upon a movable bracket to the wall, or be used as a hand-lamp. It should be fitted with several plugs, so that it can be used in any house in which the electric light has been installed. It has the great advantages that it is always ready for use, that it does not give rise to much heat, that there is no danger of fire if it be dropped, and that it can be held and turned in any position. The lamp should be about 32 candle power, and should be of frosted glass. A stronger light (50 candle power) is sometimes required, but it is usually better to use a 32 candle power and to darken the examining room. If this light be used, it is necessary to provide a means of warming the mirrors—either a small spirit lamp or hot water.