112 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. so as to replace the fingers and keep the nasal bones firmly pressed in position. Mason practised a very simple method of keeping up the bridge in bad cases by passing one or more hare-lip pins from side to side through the nose beneath the fragments. These pins project on each side for about half an inch, and a good firm cork is pushed over each projecting end (see Fig. 30). The two pieces of cork on each pin are then pushed together, so as to exercise lateral pressure on the nasal bones, while the pin prevents the bridge from falling back. In many ways this is a more satisfactory arrangement than the apparatus just mentioned, because, while applying lateral pressure, it also prevents the bones falling back. In any case, no apparatus need be continued for more than three or four days, for by that time so much lymph and new material will have been thrown out, that the fragments of bone will remain in position if care be taken not to blow the nose or to disturb it in any way." Fir.. 30.—Mason's Method of supporting the Bridge of the Nose after Frac- ture. The diagram shows how, after the flattened bones have been got into position and the bridge has been restored, the pins support the bones, and the lateral pressure of the pieces of cork keep them inclined at an angle to one another. If the cork becomes loose, a figure-of-eight suture can be applied over all. Of complications.—The treatment of the various complications of this fracture presents few features of importance. The bleeding, even though severe, can usually be checked by affusion of cold water over the face, by syringing the nostrils with ice-cold water, or by the application of a small ice- bag to the side of the nose (vide supra). If the bleeding really be alarming— sometimes it may be if the nasal artery be divided—it may be necessary to plug the nares. To do this, the plugs must be carefully introduced and packed in place with a firm probe, taking care not to push in too large a mass at once, and by means of them the bridge of the nose will to some extent be supported. The strips of gauze should be impregnated with iodoform and pushed well up into the upper part of the nose. If emp/iysema be present, it requires no special treatment beyond taking care that the nostril on the affected side is kept clear by repeated syringing with warm boracic lotion, and at the same time the patient should be cautioned not to blow the nose. The emphysema will then readily subside and give no further trouble. The treatment of epiphora will be mainly directed, on the one hand, to careful re-position of the fragments, and on the