99 TUBERCULOUS AFFECTIONS. injected with iodoform and glycerine emulsion (see Part IV., p. 120), and stitched up. When there is an ulcer situated over diseased bone, the former should be scraped and the latter should be removed. As soon as the surface thus left is healthy, it should be skin-grafted (see Part I., p. 50). Any skin adhering to the bone should be freed, the scar excised, and the edges of the wound sutured. When there is marked eversion of the lower eyelid, the ordinary operation for ectropion should be performed ; this is described under the plastic surgery of the face (see Chap. XII.). LUPUS.—Lupus vulgaris is the most common tuberculous lesion of the face. It occurs chiefly upon the cheeks or the tip of the nose and presents wide variations in virulence. Thus, it may sometimes occur as lupus non- exedens, characterised by scars covered with branny scales without ulceration, or as lupus exedens, in "which there are nodules that coalesce, ulcerate and become covered with scabs, beneath which is found soft tuberculous material. The ulceration in lupus exedens is sometimes slow, but sometimes on the other hand it may be so rapid that the special name of lupus vorax has been applied to it; the probability is, however, that this form is a combined condition of epithelioma and lupus, and that has been so in all the cases with which we have had to deal. Lupus hypertrophic s is not so common on the face. The disease may last for years and is very intractable; unless its ravages be checked, it may cause the most distressing deformities. It begins with the deposit of one or two nodules in the skin, around which fresh nodules develop, and these, according to their type, may or may not ulcerate. On the face, the disease spreads to the skin but does not penetrate for any distance into the subcutaneous tissues. On the nose, however, the tubercles penetrate deeper and destroy the cartilages, so that after a time the cartilaginous portion of the nose may be entirely lost. The nasal bones are never affected and the bridge remains intact; this serves to distinguish the condition from syphilitic destruction of the nose. The disease may spread from the nose to the lips and into the nostrils. Apart from the unsightly sores and scars and the destruction of tissue, the lupous ulceration gives rise to other deformities which are both unsightly and serious, such as ectropion, contractions about the lips which distort the mouth, or narrowing of the orifices of the nostrils, so that the patient is unable to breathe properly. Treatment.—The various methods of treatment of lupus are (1) excision, (2) scraping followed by the application of caustics, (3) injections into the nodules, (4) the application of ointments or plasters, (5) exposure to con- centrated sunlight or electric light, and (6) the internal administration of drugs. Most of these methods have been already referred to (see Part II., p. 153), and we need therefore only say a few words as to the cases for which each method is most suitable. Excision.—In very early cases, when there is only a small patch consisting of two or three nodules, the ideal treatment is to excise the affected area by including it in an oval incision and subsequently to bring the edges of the