THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. 162 of appearance and also of the development of the parts and the general nutrition of the child. Two points, however, must be taken into consideration in determining the question, namely, (i) the strength of the child and its ability to stand the necessary loss of blood, and (2) the presence of any septic condition about the mouth and nose, such as coryza, snuffles, aphthous stomatitis, etc. If the child be feeble, the loss of blood due to the operation may be sufficient to cause a fatal result, and, on the other hand, when the child is weakly there is much greater liability to septic infection. As regards the second point, the presence of any septic condition of the mouth or the nose is particularly prone to lead to septic inflammation of the wound, and thus to endanger union. In the absence of these unfavourable conditions primary union almost invariably occurs, and therefore the age at which uncomplicated hare-lips may be operated upon depends to a large extent on the size of the gap. In slight simple cases the operation may be done within a few weeks or even a few days of birth. If, on the other hand, the 1 cleft is wide, extends up into the nostril and entails a long operation and a free separation of the soft parts from the bone with a considerable loss of blood, the operation should be delayed until the child is at least three months old. This must certainly always be the case in double hare-lip. In all cases, however, unless there be some very strong contra-indication, such as marked marasmus, the operation should be performed before the occurrence of dentition. When cleft palate complicates hare-lip, the question whether the operations for uniting the hare-lip and the cleft palate should be done at the same time or separately has to be considered. It is a generally accepted rule, and one with which we are disposed in the main to agree, that the hare-lip should be closed as soon as possible, whether the operation on the palate be deferred to a later period or not. This is advisable, because the development of the parts improves directly the lip is united, the cleft in the palate, and especially in the alveolus, apparently tends to diminish, and the nutrition of the child becomes better. Wheti there is a bilateral cleft of the alveolus and the palate, with a projecting pre-maxillary bone, it is of the greatest importance to unite the lip as soon as possible in order to remedy the severe deformity and to render the proper feeding of the child possible. It is advised by some that the operation on the palate should precede that on the lip and that the former should be done at quite an early age, from a few months upwards. The principal reason for the first of these recommendations is that the gap in the lip gives the surgeon freer access, and this is a point of considerable importance when the small size of the parts is borne in mind. While we do not think that this is necessary in the majority of cases, it may be called for when the parts are very small, the cleft in the palate very wide, and where it is obviously impossible to obtain closure of the cleft by a single operation. In such cases the extra room obtained by operating on the palate before closing the cleft in the lip is of considerable assistance. But in the majority of cases