SPASM OF THE GLOTTIS IN INFANTS. 457 draws a long stridulous breath and falls to sleep again, when the cycle of events is repeated. Treatment.—In all these cases the treatment consists in ascertaining and removing any cause, such as those above enumerated, which may be present. LARYNGEAL VERTIGO. This rare affection is probably due to a sudden spasm of the glottis. A tickling sensation in the larynx comes on : then a sudden, full inspiration occurs and is followed by complete glottic spasm. The vision becomes obscure the patient becomes dizzy, unconscious and falls down; in a few seconds he completely recovers. Similar symptoms may be produced by direct irritation of the larynx by small crusts as in laryngitis sicca. In these patients a violent cough sets in and continues until the patient becomes black in the face and unconscious. Treatment.—This consists in the administration of the ordinary nervine tonics, such as liquor strych., and in the removal of the cause when any direct source of irritation can be discovered. The attacks are practically never fatal and the prognosis is usually good. MALFORMATIONS OF THE LARYNX.—CONGENITAL LARYNGEAL OBSTRUCTION. This affection, also known as Congenital Laryngeal Stridor, Infantile Respiratory Spasm, etc., is due to a congenital malformation of the superior laryngeal aperture; the epiglottis is curled upon itself until its posterior edges may be in contact and the ary-epiglottic folds are closely opposed. In infancy these parts are very flaccid and on inspiration this deformed superior laryngeal aperture closes like a valve giving rise to marked stridor and occasionally dyspnoea. Symptoms.—The stridor commences at or immediately after birth, increases for a few months and gradually subsides at about the second year. The stridor accompanies nearly every inspiration and usually persists during sleep. There may be retraction of the chest walls and occasionally cyanosis but the patient rarely exhibits any sign of distress. The disease often seems to produce no effect upon the general health, but occasionally the children are ill-nourished, and should respiratory affections occur cyanosis and collapse of the lung bases is apt to take place adding an increased gravity to these troubles. In a few cases deformity of the chest may result or actual asphyxia may occur. Treatment—The affection subsides as the child grows, apparently because the parts becomes less flaccid and the arytenoids move freely and become further apart. The curling of the epiglottis persists throughout life. The treatment consists in supporting the general health and in taking