THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LARYNX. glimpse of the larynx is obtainable. By this method, with one or two trials on different occasions if necessary, a good view can always be obtained. When it is imperative to obtain a view of the larynx at once and these methods are unsuccessful, an attempt may be made under an anaesthetic. This is a somewhat risky proceeding when laryngeal stenosis is present and should therefore not be attempted unless the diagnosis be a matter of importance. The child must be wrapped in a blanket and held upright in the nurse's arms. Chloroform, or a mixture of chloroform and ether, is administered until the reflexes are abolished. Two assistants are usually required, one to steady the head and to hold the mouth open with the gag, the other to pull forward the tongue. The soft palate, and if necessary the larynx, are then painted with a 4% solution of cocaine. This diminishes the amount of chloroform required to abolish the reflexes but its toxic action must be borne in mind and only a very little used. The mirror is now introduced in the usual way and, aided if necessary by the tongue-depressor, a good view of the interior of the larynx can usually be obtained. Not only is this method available for examination, but, should the laryngeal affection be removable by an intra-laryngeal operation, this may be at once proceeded with. Thus a foreign body, a papilloma, or a benign tumour of the larynx may be diagnosed and at once removed with laryngeal forceps. GENERAL METHODS OF TREATMENT. Ansesthetisation of the larynx.—This is best done with cocaine: in adults a 10%, in children a 2%—4% solution should be used. A very little solution is sprayed into the larynx with a suitable spray-producer under the guidance of the laryngoscope. Great care must be exercised to prevent the solution entering the pharynx, as if swallowed it is rapidly absorbed from the stomach and may produce dangerous symptoms; whereas it is much less liable to be absorbed from the laryngeal mucous membrane. After one or two preliminary sprayings, in which a few drops only of the solution should be used, the cocaine should be applied with a brush or by pledgets of wool on laryngeal forceps. The drug can thus be accurately applied to the desired spot, there is less danger of any entering the pharynx, the patient becomes accustomed to the introduction of the instruments and no more cocaine is used than is necessary to abolish the laryngeal reflexes. The mixture of cocaine with extract of suprarenal capsule has already been described (see p. 285), and is also extremely useful; its full effect is obtained in about fifteen minutes, and will last from five to ten minutes longer than that of cocaine alone. Cleansing the larynx.—To wash out the larynx a warm alkaline solution1 should be used in a laryngeal spray. By means of the laryngo- 1 A useful formula is five grains each of salt, borax, and soda, with a little glycerine, to the ounce of water.