397 AFFECTIONS OF THE MIDDLE EAR. If not, it should be sought for first posteriorly and then anteriorly by means of the incus hook. This hook should always be kept close to the tympanic ring. The whole cavity should next be gently but thoroughly curetted and the itence of a carious spot of bone on the inner wall or roof should be felt for with the probe. The stapes is best left, and care should be taken not to disturb it with the curette. The ear should then be thoroughly washed out and the tympanum and attic lightly packed with a thin strip of cyanide gauze soaked in glycerine and iodoform emulsion. This strip should be removed at the end of 24 hours at the latest and then the treatment by syringing, drying and powdering with boracic acid should be carried out until healing is complete. This treatment will have to be continued for many weeks. If the discharge completely ceases, the inner wall of the tympanum gradually loses its red velvety appearance and becomes white and glistening. This is probably due to the spreading inwards of the epithelium from the margins of the membrane which in time may completely cover the inner wall of the tympanum. This is the most favourable result that can be obtained and is usually not complete for five or six months. In cases in which the lower part of the drum is cicatrised and adherent to the inner wall it should be left untouched, as the epithelium rapidly speads from this over the tympanum. The results of this operation are frequently good. Attic suppuration is always stopped provided there be no carious bone and the antrum or mastoid cells be not affected. The hearing in many cases is improved, in a few it is somewhat worse, but by removal of the malleus and incus alone it is never destroyed. If, in spite of this operation, much pus continues to form, it almost certainly comes from the antrum, and the complete post-aural operation (see p. 404) must be performed. If after many months a slight discharge still continues, it either comes from a small sclerosed antrum or indicates the presence of diseased bone in the roof or inner wall of the tympanum and in both of these cases also the complete post-aural operation is indicated. Of granulations and polypi.—Granulations, if small, are best destroyed by means of chemical caustics, the actual cautery being somewhat difficult to manipulate in the ear. The best caustics are chromic acid or nitrate of silver, which should be fused upon the tip of a fine probe. The ear being cleansed and the granulations carefully dried, the caustic should be applied directly to them. Any excess should be mopped away with a pledget of wool and then insufflation with boracic acid should be carried out. The application may require to be repeated once or twice. Where numerous granulations are present, the instillations of spirit are often more effectual than the dry treat- ment. In cases in which the attic is affected or caries of the tympanic walls is present the granulations should be removed by means of the curette preferably under general anaesthesia; some caustic should be subsequently applied to their bases. A large granulation should be removed by means of a fine, sharp curette.