GENERAL METHODS OF TREATMENT. 283 stimulant is required; chlorate of potassium or iodide of potassium, in similar doses, in cases of unusual dryness of the mucous membrane, etc.; the carbolic acid, if too irritating, may be omitted. All nasal lotions arc improved by the addition of either a little glycerine or sugar. Hand washes.—The method most generally to be recommended is to sniff the lotion from the hand or from a shallow bowl up the nose, letting it pass well through into the throat, and returning it through the mouth. About one ounce to an ounce and a half of solution should be used at each washing. This method is the most pleasant of all and can easily be learned. It should be carried out before rather than after meals, as other- wise in some cases it causes retching and even vomiting. Syringing.—When force is required to be used, as when large crusts have to be detached, the above method is ineffectual and must be replaced by syringing. This should, as a rule, be carried out by the surgeon him- self in the first instance, and continued until the nose is absolutely clean, when the patient may be taught to do it. A rubber ball syringe is the most convenient. The stream of fluid should be directed along the inferior meatus, the patient's head should be bent well forward over a bowl, and he should be directed to open and breathe through his mouth. In tin's way the fluid, entering one nostril, will pass around the post-nasal space and come out down the other. Care must be taken not to inject the fluid with too mucli force, or it may be driven through the Eustachian tubes and set up acute otitis; this is especially liable to happen if the fluid be injected down a wide nostril when the other nostril is obstructed. The nasal douche, on account of the continuous pressure with which the fluid is injected, is extremely liable to give rise to this complication, and as its use has no advantage over that of the syringe, it should be entirely abandoned. Sprays.—Nasal lotions may also be used by means of a spray. This instrument should give as coarse a spray as possible, but it is not nearly such an effectual method of cleansing the nose as those above mentioned and gives rise to more discomfort. Nasal irrigators. — For simple S cases in which the inferior meatus alone requires to be cleansed, if the above-described method of using a hand wash fail or is found very inconvenient, the fluid may be introduced by means of a nasal irrigator (see Fig. 106). This is filled with lotion, the thumb tightly applied to the opening at the side and the nozzle end inserted into the nostril : when the thumb is removed the fluid will flow down. In children fluid may be introduced into the nose in a similar way, or a teaspoon may be used, but as a rule it is better to employ a syringe, using it with the greatest gentleness. MAYER Sc MELTZER. Fig. 106.—Glass Tube for Irrigating the Nose