THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE EAR. 38o about a quarter of an inch behind and parallel to the attachment of the auricle. This incision should be carried at once down to the bone and the periosteum divided. The flap, together with the auricle, is displaced forwards, and the cartilaginous part of the meatus entirely detached. The base of the exostosis now comes into view, and it may be chipped •off with a chisel or gouge and extracted. The wound is sewn up, and for a few days a plug of gauze should be placed in the external auditory meatus. Beyond this there is nothing special in the after-treatment. The wound will heal by first intention and complete recovery will ensue. There is no tend- ency to recurrence. 2. Sessile or diffuse exostosis.—In these cases the osseous part of the meatus is more or less occluded by one or more smooth, rounded, usually pale and glistening swellings of ivory consistence, and varying in size from a millet seed to a split pea. More rarely they may be irregular on the surface and pinkish in colour. They are broadly sessile, of an extremely slow growth and very rarely entirely occlude the canal; but they favour accumulations of wax, and so not uncommonly give rise to deafness. When accompanied by suppuration in the middle ear, especially if there be a liability to swelling of the soft parts of the meatus, they may form a very serious obstruction to the exit of pus, and the condition is then grave. The cause of the trouble is doubtful. In some cases these exostoses undoubtedly follow long-standing •otorrhcea, and probably depend upon osteoplastic periostitis. Treatment.—Palliative.—In the majority of cases it is sufficient to remove periodically by syringing any accumulation of cerumen, as the growths rarely completely occlude the meatus and consequently they give rise to no symptoms unless wax be present. Operative.—Removal may be required when the growth or growths are large enough to completely fill the meatus, or when suppuration is present. In the latter case, especially if associated with swelling of the mucous membrane of the external meatus, or if pain, pyrexia, or any other symptom be present, operation should be performed without delay, and no time should be wasted in previous attempts to treat the otorrhcea. In these •cases, the mastoid should be opened up and the complete post-aural oper- ation performed (see p. 404). When there is no suppuration, it is usually recommended to remove the growth through the external auditory meatus by means of a dental drill or trephine, and this may be accomplished if the growth is in the outer part of the meatus and not too near the membrane. The operation is somewhat difficult and tedious, as the drill has a great tendency to slip off the dense growth, and the haemorrhage constantly obstructs the view. The greatest care must be taken to watch carefully •what is being done, and to proceed very cautiously, as otherwise the ear may be permanently injured. If the growth be large and close to the drum, it is probably better to make a curved incision behind the auricle and to completely detach the cartilaginous meatus, and then, having. a