THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE EAR. 3§4 patent. In other cases permanent damage, such as intra-tympanic adhesions, permanent perforation of the drum, and occlusion or narrowing of the Eustachian tubes may result. Finally, the suppuration may become chronic. Symptoms.—The chief symptoms are acute deep-seated pain in the ear accompanied by a sense of fulness and throbbing, tenderness over the tip of the mastoid process and below the auricle, and in severe cases over the whole mastoid region and along the sterno-mastoid. There is always more or less deafness and occasionally severe pulsative tinnitus. There is marked febrile disturbance, and in children the general symptoms may be very severe and closely resemble meningitis. On examining the ear with a speculum, great congestion and swelling of the lower part of the bony meatus is found rendering the examination difficult and painful, and in children a general anaesthetic is commonly required, for it is most important to determine if suppuration be present. When this has occurred there is usually a marked localised bulging of the membrane, often with a yellowish spot in the centre, with intense surrounding congestion. This bulging spot is usually situated in the upper posterior quadrant of the membrane. Treatment—In the early stages, when simple catarrh is present, associated with congestion of the tympanum and Eustachian obstruction, vigorous treatment must be adopted to cut short the affection. Local.—The most important measures consist in the appropriate treatment of the septic condition of the nose or throat, the restoration of the patency of the Eustachian tube, and counter-irritation over the mastoid region. The whole area of skin over the mastoid process should be painted with liquor epispasticus, or a blister may be raised by means of the emplastrum cantharides (1-2 ins.). In mild cases the linimentum iodi may be painted on behind the ear and repeated once or twice a day. In the more severe cases and when great pain is present, four or five leeches should be applied to each ear, two over the mastoid, one in front of the tragus and the others over the upper part of the sterno-mastoid. This usually gives immediate relief. To open the Eustachian tube, Politzer's method of inflation should be tried: if used gently and with care it will relieve the pain and perhaps even allow the evacuation of a certain amount of discharge through the tube. It should be repeated twice or three times daily, but should not be persisted in if it cause pain. If unsuccessful at first it should be tried again after a few days. The Eustachian catheter should never be used. In the majority of cases warmth applied to the ear will relieve the pain and is very soothing to the patient. If one ear alone be affected the patient should lie on the affected side, and rest his head upon a rubber bag containing hot water. In other cases moist warmth is more effectual and may be applied by means of linseed meal poultices—encased in gauze to prevent the meal getting into the ear—or the whole ear and side of the face may be bathed with hot water and then hot boracic fomentations applied. When these are removed the ear should be covered with hot cotton-wool and a bandage. Nasal irrigation and other appropriate remedies for the particular causal condition