THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. 58 infected with pyogenic organisms and may gradually break down and give rise to pyaemia. From the groove of the lateral sinus the inflammation may extend to the sub-dural space and may lead to a sub-dural abscess, to a lepto-meningitis or to a cerebellar abscess. The cerebellar abscess may form by direct infection from the inflamed membranes or without any adhesions of the membranes at all. . It is usually situated towards the upper and anterior part of the cerebellum. In cases of long-standing suppuration in the middle ear in the course of which symptoms of intra-cranial disease arise, one or more of the following conditions may be present in addition to the local disease in the middle ear and the mastoid antrum: i. There may be disease of the bone either over the attic or about the lateral sinus ; 2. pachymeningitis and extra-dural abscess may also occur in both these situations ; 3. in addition to extra-dural suppu- ration about the lateral sinus, there may be phlebitis and septic thrombosis of the sinus itself; 4. localised sub-dural suppuration or diffuse suppurative lepto-meningitis may be met with ; 5. and lastly, there may be an abscess either in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe or in the cerebellum. The symptoms and treatment of the disease, in so far as it relates to the middle ear and the mastoid antrum, will be more conveniently discussed among the intrinsic diseases of the ear (see Division II.); we shall only deal here with symptoms which denote extension of the disease to the brain and its membranes. The only points we need again refer to are in connection with abscesses of the brain, which, as has been said, occur usually in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe or in the cerebellum. The abscess is usually limited by a kind of pyogenic membrane and the pus is often extremely foetid, the most common cause of the fcetor being the presence of the bacillus coli communis. Some- times the pus is greenish in colour from the presence of the bacillus pyocyaneus ; in other cases, again, the coloration is due to the presence of blood. In the pus are often sloughs which consist of the white matter of the brain. The abscess is generally single, although smaller abscesses are some- times found in the vicinity of the main one. Symptoms.—The symptoms of the various forms of intra-cranial suppura- tion occurring in connection with disease of the antrum are practically the same as those already described for similar conditions arising after injury ; it is, however, often difficult to separate the various conditions from one another, and it is not at all uncommon for more than one to be present at the same time. The chief symptoms of abscess of the brain are those due to pressure. The temperature is usually subnormal; in fact, if there be any marked pyrexia, meningeal complications may be feared. The pulse is very slow, some- times thirty or forty per minute; the respiration is also slow. Rigors may occur and vomiting is more or less constantly present. The pain is often very marked, and may be continuous or intermittent; it is usually referred to the temporal region on the same side as the abscess. Percussion over the tern-