HARE-LIP. 163 we believe it is best to close the lip first and to leave the. closure of the palate until a later period. The chief essential in operating on hare-lip is to repair the cleft so that no notch shall be left after operation, and the red line of the lip shall be united accurately. The two points already referred to must be especially borne in mind, namely, (a) the fact that the edges of the cleft are bound down to the gum, and (&) that the nostril on the affected side is broader than on the other. We shall consider the following cases: (1) Where the cleft does not extend into the nostril ; (2) where it does extend into the nostril; (3) where this extension into the nostril is associated with cleft of the alveolus and perhaps of the palate as well; and (4) double hare-lip. 1. An incomplete cleft in the lip.—The closure of the gap here is usually comparatively simple, In the first place, any binding-down of the lip to the alveolus must be freed, and then the gap is pared so as to leave a concave surface on each side. The knife is entered just above the apex of the cleft and the curved incision shown in Fig. 58, A, is made through the whole thickness of the lip on each side. When the two cut surfaces are brought together in the middle line there will be a projection downwards of the red line (see Fig. 58, B), which is afterwards obliterated by the contraction of the vertical scar. The stitches are inserted so as to bring the red line in accurate apposition on the two sides. The sutures in the mucous membrane should be of fine catgut, at the red line and at the centre of the vertical wound, of silkworm gut going through nearly the whole thickness of the lip. One or two intermediate stitches of fine horsehair will complete the union. Although the cleft does not extend into the nostril, the latter may be unduly broad, and under such circumstances it will be necessary to remedy this also. The concave incision should be carried vertically upwards from the apex of the cleft into the nostril on each side and the ala freely detached from the bone. A narrow vertical strip of the whole thickness of the lip is then removed so that when the sides are stitched together the nostril is brought sufficiently inwards (see Fig. 59). 2. A complete cleft of the lip. —A variety of methods are employed A B Fig. 58.—Operation for Simple Hare-Lip without widening of the Nostril. By paring the edges by means of the concave incision shown in A, a small downward projection is left at the free margin of the lip when the edges are sutured (B). The subsequent contraction of the scar neutralises this.