AFFECTIONS OF THE SCALP. AIR TUMOURS. Collections of air beneath the scalp are sometimes met with after injuries about the head; they may occur in two forms. There may be a condition of emphysema of the scalp in which the air is diffused through the cellular tissue, or there may be a more localised tumour containing air, commonly termed a pneumatocele. EMPHYSEMA OF THE SCALP.—Emphysema of the scalp is not very uncommon and is usually associated with fractures, more especially of the nasal or ethmoid bones, or of the anterior wall of the frontal sinus. Under these circumstances air is driven into the cellular tissue when the patient blows his nose and may give rise to considerable emphysema of the scalp. Treatment.—As a rule no treatment is required for this condition, but, should there be any undue distension, the skin may be punctured in order to allow the air to escape. PNEUMATOCELE.—Of much greater importance, although of greater rarity, is the condition known as pneumatocele, in which there is a cavity distended with air and communicating with air-cells in the bone beneath. These tumours have been met with especially in the region of the mastoid process and. also sometimes about the frontal sinus. They arise in con- nection with defects in the bone, such as sometimes occur over the mastoid region, so that a communication is established with the air cells beneath. As a result, air is forced from the middle ear through the opening by violent efforts, such as sneezing; this raises .the pericranium and thus in the course of time a tumour may be developed. These bony defects may be congenital or acquired; if congenital, they are generally the result of incomplete closure of the squamo-mastoid suture. The tumours do not as a rule give rise to any special symptoms. Treatment.—Punctures and incisions have been employed; apparently the best results have followed puncture mid the subsequent injection of iodine. Unless however the tumour is of such a size as to cause deformity it is best not to interfere with it. TUMOURS OF THE SCALP. ATHEROMATOUS CYSTS.—A variety of tumours may be met with in the scalp, the most common of which is the atheromatous or sebaceous cyst, also popularly called a wen. These cysts are usually multiple and some of them may reach a considerable size. They are generally thick-walled and, unless inflammation has occurred from irritation of the hat, etc., the wall of the cyst is usually separated easily from the surrounding parts. These sebaceous cysts may however, as the result of pressure, be accompanied by inflammation of the skin, or by suppuration in the (issues around the cyst, and under these circumstances its wall becomes