THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. 120 incision downwards and outwards in the direction of the sub-maxillary glands, so that the lymphatic vessels running from the lip to the glands may be thereby included. The edges of the wound can usually be readily brought together without the necessity for any-plastic operation. Care must of course be taken to see that the red line of the lip is in accurate apposition. When a very considerable portion of the lip is thus removed the angle of the mouth may be pulled towards the middle line on suturing the wound, but in the course of time this deformity rights itself and becomes very slightly noticeable. When still more extensive portions of the lip have to be removed, a plastic operation must be performed (see Chap. XII.). The excision of the V-shaped portion is done as follows: The surgeon grasps the lip well to one side of the growth between his left thumb and Fig. 32.—Incisions for the Removal of a small Epithelioma of the Lower Lip. The concave limbs of the incisions when brought together give a slight projection on the free margin of the lip, which is obliterated by the contraction of the scar. forefinger so as to firmly compress the vessels in its thickness. An assistant should do the same on the other side of the growth, and, the circulation in the lip being thus controlled, the V-shaped incision is made. It is as a rule advisable not to make the two limbs of the V straight; they should be slightly concave so as to allow for the contraction that must inevitably occur in a linear cicatrix. When the two concave sides of the incision are sutured together there will be a slight upward projection at the free edge of the lip (see Fig. 32); in the course of time the contraction of the scar will obliterate this. The limb of the incision between the growth and the surgeon's fingers should first be cut and should be made by transfixing the thickness of the lip below the growth and cutting upwards through the free margin.1 When this is done, the surgeon everts the portion of lip grasped between his finger and thumb, relaxes his pressure slightly so as to ascertain the position of the spurting coronary artery, which is then seized and twisted. Any other bleeding vessels may be similarly treated. When the pressure is entirely relaxed, the growth is seized by the fingers or by forceps, and the opposite limb of the incision, that namely between the growth and the assistant's 1 If there be plenty of room, a still better plan is to have the coronary arteries on each side controlled by the assistant ; the surgeon then grasps the growth, and cuts downwards from the free margin of the lip on each side. He can thus make his incisions more accurately and more concave.