CHAPTER VII. FOCAL EPILEPSY: TUMOURS OF THE BRAIN. FOCAL EPILEPSY. A great variety of operations, such as ligature of the vertebral arteries, division of the sympathetic trunk in the neck, etc., have been introduced for the cure of true epilepsy without any very marked benefit.1 In cases of focal or Jacksonian epilepsy, however, operation is often of great benefit. In these cases the attack usually begins in a definite centre and the muscular spasms follow a definite order, commencing in one group of muscles and extending in regular sequence to others. It may or may not end in a general convulsion, and in some cases consciousness is not completely lost. The irritation appears to radiate from some particular point on the surface of the cerebrum and to extend downwards into its substance. Causes.—A great variety of causes may give rise to this condition. Among these may be mentioned a depressed fracture, in which there is direct pressure by the depressed portion of bone, or by a subsequent osteitis; a localised pachymeningitis, especially the condition known as pachymeningitis interna, or pachymeningitis hemorrhagica in which haema- tomata form on the surface of the brain ; haemorrhages upon the surface of the brain; cysts pressing on the brain; cicatricial contraction of the brain after operations; adhesion of the brain to the dura or to the skull, as may occur after opening a cerebral abscess; or even adhesion of a cicatrix in the scalp to the bone. The attacks may occur without obvious cause, and may usually be provoked by pressure over the affected area. The attacks may be followed by a certain amount of stupor or coma similar to the ordinary post-epileptic coma, and by temporary paralysis either of sensation or motion, by diplopia, or by other sensory phenomena. 1 Comparatively recently Jonnesco of Bucharest has advocated the removal of the entire sympathetic chain in the neck, together with the three cervical ganglia on both sides. He claims to have had excellent results from the procedure. We should be inclined to await further information as to the permanence of the benefit before recommending this somewhat severe procedure.