AFFECTIONS OF THE MIDDLE EAR. 385 present must also be regularly employed. Under such treatment in the majority of cases the whole of the symptoms will pass off. Should the case however be more acute or should suppuration have already occurred, leeches should be applied as above recommended, and in addition the drum should be incised and the pus evacuated as soon as possible if perforation has not already occurred spontaneously. Incision or paracentesis is indicated whenever the drum is bulging, unless the pain be so slight as to be at once relieved by blistering or leeching combined with Politzer's inflation. Further, the drum should be incised, more especially in infants, when there is intense pain and constitutional dis- turbance, even though it does not bulge markedly. Again, this measure should always be adopted in the first instance if there be any sign of complications, such as mastoid trouble, meningitis, etc. This especially applies to young infants with symptoms of meningitis even if there be only a suspicion of fluid in the ear, as meningitis commonly follows suppurative otitis without perforation or even bulging of the drum. Puncture is also indicated in those rare cases in which facial paralysis occurs. The pain of this little operation is extremely sharp although of very brief duration. In infants and young children chloroform must therefore be given : in adults the operation is often performed under cocaine, but a general anaesthetic is to be preferred. The knife or myringotome employed has a fine shaft attached to a handle at an angle of 60° with a spear- pointed blade, and must be extremely sharp. (See Fig. 138). The external meatus should be thoroughly cleansed by irrigation with boracic lotion, then dried and a good light thrown into the ear. When the drum is bulging or pointing in some particular region, the incision should completely traverse the bulging part. In the majority of cases the upper part of the posterior half of the drum is bulging and then the incision should commence in the posterior and inferior quadrant and be carried up right through Shrapnell's membrane, and in the more severe cases further continued outwards for a short distance (^-inch) along the postero- superior wall of the external meatus dividing the soft parts right down to the bone. The incision should always be made in this region also when the drum is not bulging in any particular spot. After the incision has been made, the fluid in the tympanum will commonly escape, but. it may be extremely tenacious and require to be evacuated. With a Siegle's speculum the discharge can be sucked out through the perforation; and then the meatus should be wiped clean with pledgets of wool and the exhaustion repeated until no more discharge escapes. This having been done, the ear should be gently syringed with warm boracic lotion, a little boracic powder insufflated, and hot boracic fomentations applied and fre- quently renewed until all the acute symptoms have subsided ; the syringing and insufflations must be continued until the discharge ceases. At first the ear may require cleansing every hour or every two hours, as the dis- charge should never be allowed to accumulate in the external meatus. pt. v. 2 B