THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. be applied to the inferior turbinate by means of a small pledget of wool on the end of a probe. The nose should be previously cocainised, and, after applying the acid, the inferior meatus should be thoroughly wiped out and all excess of acid removed by pledgets of wool on a probe. By either of these means rapid improvement is commonly obtained, but they may require to be repeated at an interval of not less than a fortnight. In a few cases, in which the nostrils are extremely narrow, it may be necessary to remove the anterior end or more of the inferior turbinate. This operation, which is known as anterior turbinectomy, will be fully ■described later (see p. 304). In all cases where hypertrophies or deflec- tions of the septum are causing any marked obstruction these must be removed, for it is impossible to obtain a cure until the nasal fossae are .sufficiently patent. General.—In addition to this treatment, suitable tonics, and especially the perchloride of iron (see footnote, p. 296) should always be prescribed, together with change of air, preferably to the seaside if it can be obtained. HYPERTROPHY OF THE INFERIOR TURBINATE.—This is most commonly the result of chronic catarrhal rhinitis, especially when in association with other causes of nasal obstruction, such as adenoids, deflected septum, etc. It also frequently follows a succession of severe colds. It is found chiefly in those between twenty and thirty years of age, but it is not very uncommon in young adults or even in children, in association with post-nasal growths. Pathological Changes.—The inferior turbinate instead of being globular and smooth, as in simple chronic rhinitis, is sometimes finely, sometimes coarsely lobulated, giving it a papillary or cauliflower-like appearance. These hypertrophic portions are firm, do not indent easily -with the probe, and do not shrink much under cocaine. In some cases large masses attached to the under surface or free border of the inferior turbinate are tucked away within its concavity, and thus are concealed from view until they are turned out with a probe. Similar hypertrophies may also be found growing from the floor of the nose, and from the lower part of the septum; they very frequently form a more or less •symmetrical swelling on the posterior end of the septum. Either end or the whole length of the inferior turbinate may be involved. Histologically, these hypertrophied outgrowths are found to contain all the elements of the normal mucous membrane of this region, combined with an excessive amount of fibrous tissue. Symptoms.—The symptoms are those of aggravated chronic rhinitis. The nasal obstruction is often complete and does not vary much with atmospheric conditions. The affection is generally associated with some pharyngitis, laryngitis, or Eustachian obstruction, etc. Treatment.—It is obvious that surgical measures to reduce the hypertrophy will generally be required. When there is only slight hyper- trophy associated with a large amount of vascular engorgement, treatment