32 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. may be stuffed with iodoform gauze for two or three days until it is evident whether the inflammation will pass off or not. In the former case, drainage tubes may then be introduced and the flaps brought together. TUBERCULOSIS OF THE SKULL. Tuberculous disease of the skull is not common except in connection with the mastoid and petrous portions of the temporal bone. In the vault it is comparatively rare, but it may affect any of the flat bones, most often the frontal and the parietal. In the frontal it most usually occurs in the neighbourhood of the orbital margin and of the external angular process. The disease chiefly affects young adults, and as a rule is secondary to tuberculous disease elsewhere. Indeed tuberculosis of the flat bones of the skull usually only occurs in the course of a similar severe disease in other bones. It may begin in several parts of the skull at the same time, but it usually commences at one spot, and is frequently preceded by an injury. When the case is one of multiple tuberculosis of the skull, the prognosis is very bad, and in any case the disease is very serious. In the flat bones the disease most often commences in the diploe, either as a soft deposit or as a sequestrum. The sequestra are small, and usually involve the whole thickness of the skull, the inner table being more extensively affected than the outer. The dura is often separated from the bone over a considerable area by a mass of tuberculous material under- going caseation. There is also a tendency to thickening of the dura mater —the condition known as tuberculous pachymeningitis. The gravity of the disease depends partly on the danger of infection of the membranes, and consequent tuberculous meningitis, and partly on various septic risks, such as pyaemia, sinus thrombosis, acute ■ osteo-myelitis, acute meningitis or cere- bral abscess. Symptoms.—The disease usually commences with a dull aching pain in the head and tenderness on pressure over the affected part. The pain is presently followed by a soft swelling which very soon develops into a chronic abscess. After the abscess bursts or is opened, the bone is felt to be bare and soft, and in most cases small necrosed fragments may be found. Sometimes, however, the disease extends more towards the deeper surface of the bone, so that, after the pain has lasted for some time, symptoms of cerebral compression may arise from the collection of pus between the dura mater and the skull. Treatment.—As the condition is very serious, it is important to take energetic operative measures as soon as the diagnosis has been made, for the chances of recovery without operation are small. The operative measures must be on the lines already laid down for the treatment of tuberculous disease of bones in general (see Part III.). The affected area should be freely exposed, either by a large flap going wide of the diseased region in cases where there is no external opening, or by excision of any tuber-