THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE EAR. 386 Moreover, if the lotion be used as hot as can be comfortably borne, the syringing is very soothing to the patient. When the discharge becomes scanty and thick, it is better to omit the powder, as it may form a crust and hinder the escape of the discharge. Occasionally the incision in the drum heals too quickly and then it is necessary to re-open it. Should the discharge continue in spite of this treatment, the case must be treated as for chronic suppurative otitis (see p. 393). When the acute inflammation has subsided the Eustachian tube must be opened and kept patent by daily inflations by Politzer's method, (which also tend to prevent adhesions forming in the tympanum,) and the nasal irrigations, etc., should be con- tinued until this has been accomplished. Constitutional.—At the commencement of the affection it is advisable to give a brisk purge. Children should be given one or two grains of calomel followed by castor oil or a Seidlitz powder; for an adult calomel and colocynth or equal parts of mercury and rhubarb pill should be ordered, to be followed up if necessary by a dose of sulphate of magnesia or effervescing saline. If the pain be very severe, narcotics such as morphia will be required. When the acute attack has passed off, quinine and iron or cod-liver oil should be given. The diet should be light and nutritious, and at first should consist chiefly of fluids, as mastication in the acute stages is painful. Alcohol should be avoided entirely, at any rate in the early stages. Results.—The prognosis is always good unless complications such as mastoiditis, meningitis and cerebral affections occur. The prognosis is worst in the cases of otitis occurring during the course of the specific fevers, varying somewhat according to the severity of the original affection. It is more dangerous also in the young, owing to the great tendency there is in them to meningitis. The results as regards hearing are also good, recovery being as a rule almost perfect. The perforation in the drum commonly heals and the cicatrix left is often imperceptible. Recurrent Acute Catarrh.—Some patients, children especially, are subject to frequently recurring attacks of acute suppurative otitis. The attack com- mences as an acute affection, the pain, earache, etc., increasing for one or two days, followed by rupture of the drum and rapid subsidence of the affection. In two or three weeks or so the attack is repeated, each attack lasting from two or three days to a week. These cases are invariably associated with some affection of the naso-pharynx or of the nose, the large majority of them being due to the presence of adenoids. The treat- ment therefore essentially consists in the adoption of the proper remedies for the naso pharyngeal disease. CHRONIC NON-SUPPURATIVE CATARRH. This affection may occur at any age but is most common in adults between 15 and 35. It is usually the sequel of repeated attacks of catarrh