CHAPTER XXIII. THE OPERATIONS UPON THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. TRACHEOTOMY. The trachea may be opened either above or below the isthmus of the thyroid, which usually lies over the third and fourth rings of the trachea; the operation is consequently spoken of as the high or the low form according to the situation of the opening relative to this structure. In practice, however, there is no strict line of demarcation between the two forms of operation, because it is often necessary to divide the thyroid isthmus partially or even completely. The operation in most frequent use is the high tracheotomy, because the trachea is here more accessible, the operation is less likely to damage important structures and can be more rapidly done; there is also less likelihood of septic cellulitis spreading from the wound into the anterior mediastinum. When however the operation is done in order to reach a foreign body lodged in the bronchus, the low operation is to be preferred as it enables the body to be reached more easily. When it is necessary to perform a preliminary tracheotomy for the inser- tion of a Hahn's cannula, as in various mouth operations, it is usually best to divide the thyroid isthmus partially or entirely, and this should always be done in a preliminary tracheotomy for complete or partial excision of the larynx. HIGH TRACHEOTOMY—The patient should be in a good light with a firm sandbag beneath the neck so as to project the trachea well forward. If an anaesthetic be given, it should be administered very slowly so as to avoid the risk of increasing the dyspnoea. Standing on the right of the patient, the surgeon grasps the thyroid cartilage between the thumb and middle finger of the left hand, while the index is placed upon the thyroid notch so as to steady the trachea and to indicate the middle line. Then, taking care that the chin, the thyroid notch and the sternum are in the same straight line, a vertical incision in the middle line is com- menced over the crico-thyroid membrane and carried down well below