296 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. well as by the ordinary household remedies, such as a hot bath, plenty of hot drinks, sleeping in flannels, etc. For this purpose a Turkish bath is often most useful. A hot steam inhalation, containing compound tincture of benzoin (one drachm to the pint of hot water) will often alleviate the distressing pain and dryness of the nose in the early stages.' The water should be at a temperature of from 1300 to 140°. Each inhala- tion should be practised in a warm room, and should not last for more than five or six minutes, but it may be repeated three or four times during the 24 hours. When the discharge lessens and becomes more purulent, a simple alkaline nose lotion should be given (see p. 282), and if the nose be at all sore, an ointment, such as vaseline or lanoline made fluid by the addition of almond oil or paroleine, should be frequently applied to anterior part of the nose with a small camel's hair brush. Change of air, with a suitable tonic, such as perchloride of iron in large doses, etc., will probably complete the cure.1 This treatment should always be enforced in weakly patients or in those in whom it is highly desirable that a cold should be speedily got rid of; but the majority of patients will prefer to let the affection run its course rather than submit to the restrictions necessary for successful treatment. In treating an exceptionally severe cold, the possibility must be borne in mind that secondary infection of one of the accessory cavities of the nose may ensue, and also that in children acute rhinitis may usher in one of the specific fevers, such as measles, etc. After-treatment.—Persons who are particularly subject to colds should be examined with a view to detect and remedy any chronic nasal affec- tion, such as hypertrophy of the inferior turbinates, polypi, etc., and in children adenoid growths in the post-nasal space should especially be sought for. Certain general precautions should also be adopted. The clothing should be warm and light, adjusted carefully to the changes of the weather, and woollen garments should always be worn next the skin. Care must be taken to avoid draughts when overheated or perspiring. The healthy action of the skin should be promoted by a cold sponge- bath daily, followed by thorough drying and rubbing. In cold weather the water may be tepid or the room warmed, and, if rapidly carried out under these conditions, even weakly persons and children will be all the better for it. In otherwise healthy people, an occasional Turkish bath is probably of value. Ill-ventilated, hot rooms must always be avoided, and 1 The following prescription may be used : ^ .Tinct. ferri perchlor., Tltxx. Tinct. nucis vom., ..... Tflviij. Tinct. limonis, TTlxx. Glycerini, TTlxx. Aq. chloroformi, 5'j- Inf. calumbse, ...... ad. 5j. Misce. Ft. mist. Signe. To be taken three times daily after meals.