8o THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. posterior sub-arachnoid space in infants is sometimes very large, and the brain itself may be reduced to an extremely thin membrane, the fissures and sulci being completely lost and the various ganglia being flattened out. In the congenital cases and in those commencing during the first year of life, the head becomes enormously enlarged and many of the congenital cases also show other developmental troubles, such as club-foot, hare-lip, etc.; the development of the child is in every way interfered with. The digestion becomes imperfect, there is chronic constipation and emaciation, strabismus and nystagmus are common, the pupils are much dilated, the special senses are usually imperfect and the child very frequently dies during the first year or two of life. Usually as the disease advances there is rigidity and retraction of the head, with convulsions. In the acquired cases developed after the first year of life, the symptoms are more severe because the skull cannot expand with the same rapidity. There are usually marked headaches, cramps, or paralyses, crying out at night, emaciation, and after a time possibly some separation of the sutures and gradual expansion of the skull. Recovery is comparatively rare, and when it does take place, the brain power is generally greatly enfeebled. Treatment.—Various methods have been employed to cure the disease but hitherto without any marked success. Apart from the medical treat- ment, which consists essentially in the use of anti-syphilitic remedies—more especially the inunction of mercury—and attention to the nutrition of the child, attempts have been made to prevent the expansion of the skull and to promote absorption of the fluid by compression of the head with bandages. In other cases puncture, either on a single occasion or on several, or repeated tappings have been employed, but very rarely with any beneficial result. Permanent drainage has been resorted to, but as a rule, even although care be taken to restrict the amount of fluid drained away, the result is generally death from pyrexia and convulsions due to the loss of cerebro-spinal fluid. Injections of Morton's fluid have been tried, but also without success. Following the experiments of Dr. Leonard Hill as to the normal regulation of the cerebro-spinal fluid by absorption and exudation by the veins in the cerebral membranes, Dr. G. A. Sutherland and one of us have made an attempt to restore this normal regulation in these cases by establishing an opening between the lateral ventricles and the sub-dural space, our view being that, if such an opening could be established, the normal regulation of the cerebro-spinal fluid would be carried out by the portions of the meninges which have not yet been affected by pachy- meningitis and that thus we should get rid of the risk due to loss of the cerebro-spinal fluid and also obtain a permanent relief of the pressure instead of the temporary one following drainage. The results of our attempts have been already published in the Clinical Society's Transactions 1 . and in the British Medical Journal.'1 leiiit. Soc. Trans., vol. xxxi., 1898, p. 166. 2Brit. Med. Journ., 1898, vol. I., p. 758.