282 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. of a greyish or pale blue colour; the inferior tubinate is small, the middle comparatively large; the septum, usually in the middle line, is often symmetri- cally thickened near its centre; the Eustachian cushions are often prominent, and may even encroach to a large extent on the post-nasal space. Should adenoids be present, they can usually be recognised and their quantity gauged by the amount of the upper part of the septum which is concealed from view. TRANS-ILLUMINATION. This method is used in examining the accessory sinuses of the nose, but is only of practical value in the case of the antrum. The patient is taken into a completely darkened room; a small electric lamp on a tongue depressor is introduced into the mouth, any artificial teeth that may be present having been removed, and the patient's lips firmly closed. Under normal conditions, when the lamp is lighted, the whole cheek is clearly illuminated quite up to the infra-orbital margin (see Fig. 105), and in most cases a bright light can be seen in the patient's pupils, who also himself experiences a subjective sensation of light. This illumination will be inter- fered with if the antrum contains pus or a tumour, and also in certain cases in which the walls of the cavity or its mucous lining are extremely thick. The method is chiefly of use as a means of diagnosis. If clear illumination is obtained, it is certain that the cavity contains no pus, although the reverse is by no means true unless it has been previously ascertained that the antrum is normally translucent. The method is too fallacious to be of value in the frontal or other sinuses. NASAL THERAPEUTICS. Methods Of Cleansing the nose.—The interior of the nasal chambers may be cleansed by lotions, which may be used as simple hand washes or applied by means of the nasal douche, syringe, or spray. All fluids used for this purpose should be of about the density of blood serum. One of the best of these is Dobell's solution or some modification of it. A useful formula is: Sod. bicarb., gr. xv. Sod. biborat., - ,, xv. Acid carbol., iv. Glycerini, Tfl, xlv. Aq., ad. 5j. One tablespoonful in two of warm water to be sniffed up the nose or used as directed. This lotion is capable of various modifications. Thus chloride of sodium (five grains to the ounce) may be added in special cases as a mild astringent ; or chloride of ammonium (five grains to the ounce) in cases in which a