CHAPTER XVI. AFFECTIONS OF THE TEMPORO-MAXILLARY ARTICULATION. DISLOCATION OF THE LOWER JAW. Causes.—Dislocation of the lower jaw may be either unilateral or bi- lateral, the latter being much more frequent. It is more common in women than in men, and it usually results from yawning, laughing, and other actions in which the mouth is widely opened. It may also occur from indirect violence, such as a blow on the chin, especially if applied in the downward direction so as to force the mouth open. In the normal movement of opening the mouth the condyles of the lower jaw, accom- panied by their inter-articular fibro-cartilages, glide forwards over the eminentia articularis, on the summit of which the condyles lie when the jaw is fully open. If the depression of the lower jaw be carried beyond this point, the inter-articular fibro-cartilage remains stationary owing to its connection with the bone, while the condyle slips forward in front of the -eminentia articularis, and becomes fixed there by the contraction of the temporal and masseter muscles. The result is that the mouth cannot be closed, any attempt to shut it being met by contraction of these muscles; the saliva dribbles away and there is severe pain. Mastication is of course absolutely prevented, and speech is almost unintelligible. Treatment.—In order to reduce a bilateral dislocation, traction is applied to the vertical ramus of the jaw so as to pull the condyle down- wards from the temporal fossa until it reaches the level of the eminentia articularis; it is then pushed back into position. The reduction is usually quite readily effected without an anaesthetic. The patient sits upright in a chair, with the head supported by an assistant or against a wall. The surgeon stands in front, and, having wrapped a thick piece of lint round each thumb, places one along the upper border of the lower jaw as far back as the last molar tooth on each side; the palm of each hand is beneath the symphysis. Steady pressure is then made by the thumbs almost vertically downwards, while the palms beneath the chin press the