THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LARYNX. cartilage, the question of further operative procedure will arise (see chronic perichondritis). CHRONIC PERICHONDRITIS.—This affection is usually associated with tuberculosis, syphilis, and carcinoma of the larynx, and may also result from acute perichondritis when necrosis of cartilage has occurred and a sequestrum remains; this is especially likely to occur in perichondritis due to trauma or occurring in connection with typhoid. Another form of chronic perichondritis, which results in the formation of a large chronic abscess, is generally described as idiopathic, but the affection is really tuberculous. It results from a localised deposit of tubercle, and occurs quite apart from phthisis. Symptoms.—The symptoms are similar to those of acute perichondritis, but come on much more slowly. A large indolent abscess may form and point in the neck, or more rarely in the larynx or throat. On opening the abscess, a large extent of cartilage is found bared and often necrosed. If the abscess point into the larynx, acute dyspnoea will be present, and, should it burst, it may suffocate the patient. Treatment.—The treatment in cases of laryngeal phthisis, syphilis, and carcinoma is that for the latter affections. In chronic tuberculous abscess, operative treatment is indicated and tracheotomy should be done when severe dyspnoea is present and sometimes as a preliminary to operative interference within the larynx. The abscess should be opened if possible from the out- side, but a small abscess pointing in the larynx, e.g. one in connection with an arytenoid, may with advantage be opened by the laryngeal lancet. If opened in the neck, it should be treated as a tuberculous abscess elsewhere (see Part I. p. 247). When a sinus is seen in the larynx and a probe passed into it leads to a sequestrum, or if a sequestrum be found at the bottom of an abscess opened externally, the question of thyrotomy has to be considered. If there be definite evidence of the presence of a sequestrum, it will usually be best to cut down upon it from outside, or if its position be not accurately determined, to do an exploratory thyrotomy and to thoroughly examine the condition of the larynx and to remove all necrosed cartilage. The abscess cavity should be thoroughly curetted and packed with iodoform gauze, but no more cartilage than is absolutely necessary should be removed. The operation itself is not a dangerous one, but, as a result of the disease, much distortion of the larynx may occur and lead to great narrowing of its lumen ; in fact it may be impossible to dispense with the tracheotomy tube. When there is extensive disease of the larynx, an endeavour should be made to prevent cicatricial contraction by the insertion of a T-shaped cannula (see p. 444), but in spite of all methods of treatment, in the majority of cases a permanent tracheotomy tube will be required.