THE PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE FACE. 141 whole of this flap on the right side is then freed, the base of the flap extending from the angle of the mouth to the margin of the lower jaw; the same is then done on the other side. The facial artery should be left undivided so as to supply the flap with blood. The original lines of incision made for removal of the cancer are now brought up to the horizontal so as to form the margin of the lower lip, the mucous mem- brane being first stitched to the skin on each side (see Fig. 41, B). The edges of the flaps, which have been made to slide forwards, are then stitched together vertically in the middle line for a sufficient distance to leave a somewhat redundant lower lip in order to allow for subsequent contraction, and then the edges of the incision in the neck are stitched together. In order to unite the wound in the neck satisfactorily, it is well to undermine the skin for some distance so that it can be pulled up and united to the lower edge of the flap above without A B Fig. 42.—Restoration of the Lower Lip by Masseteric Incisions. The free margin of the new lip is formed by stitching the mucous membrane to the skin along the horizontal part of the incisions A; ae and cc are approximated in the middle line and form a vertical scar, as shown in B. any marked drag; if the sutures be inserted so as to include more of the lower edge between each stitch than of the upper, the incision will usually come together without any marked puckering. In some cases it may be necessary to leave a small triangular raw surface at the outer end of the incision; this can be covered at once by a skin-graft. The second plan is the following. Instead of continuing the V-shaped incision down into the neck, an incision is carried straight outwards from the angle of the mouth on each side, or with a slight bend upwards, as far as the masseter muscles, dividing up to that point the whole thickness of the cheek. When the incision reaches the masseter, it is curved out- wards and downwards over the margin of the jaw, and then under the latter nearly to the hyoid bone, ending with a 'slight upward curve in front (see Fig. 42, A). The flaps thus marked out are then raised from the margin of the masseter and from the lower jaw, the mucous membrane being divided vertically downwards along the anterior border of the masseter and then horizontally along the reflection of the mucous membrane on