320 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. than wrench it away. Similarly, in nervous patients and in those who dread pain, the growths should always be completely divided by the wire. When one or two polypi only are present, and are of long standing, it is probable that the initial bone disease has completely passed off. In such cases simple removal with the snare, as above described, will probably be sufficient to effect a cure. It is a matter of everyday experience that recurrence in this condition is rare. More usually, however, further treatment will be required, and when all the polypi have been removed, the bony parts from which they grew should be carefully examined and cut away. If necessary to gain access to the part, the anterior extremity or a large piece of the middle turbinate may be removed. The affected area of bone should be com- pletely cut away, and if this cannot be accomplished with forceps such as Griinwald's, which is very difficult when the polypi spring from the neighbourhood of the hiatus semilunaris or infundibulum, it is better to operate with a ring-knife under gas or some other general anaesthetic. Fig. 120.—Meyer's Original Adenoid Curette. The large ring-knife is passed up into the affected region, under illu- mination, or it may be guided by the finger, and the diseased bone is thoroughly and firmly scraped away. For this purpose an ordinary sharp spoon is quite useless, and a large ring-knife, such as Meyer's original adenoid curette (see Fig. 120), is essential. The operation having been completed, it is better to pack- the nose with a strip of gauze for a few days, and subsequently to irrigate it regularly until healing has taken place. The results of this operation are very good when it is thoroughly done. 3. When there is extensive ethmoidal disease.—Where there are many polypi but the extent of the bone disease is unknown, it is well to commence treatment by removing some of the larger growths with the snare. Although such a method is rarely effectual in clearing the nose for more than a short time, it enables a better view of the parts to be obtained, and a more accurate estimate of the extent of the disease to be formed. When it is ascertained that extensive bone disease is present, a radical operation should be at once proceeded with. This consists in thoroughly exploring the diseased region by digital examination under a general anaesthetic, and in thoroughly clearing out the whole affected part. The method of operating is essentially similar to that recommended for cases of suppuration in the ethmoidal cells, which is commonly associated with polypi, and, as it will be fully described later, it need not be further alluded to here (see pp. 346-348). The treatment is just the same