THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. the patient is run down, in others, he is distinctly of a neurotic tempera- ment, but the large majority are in robust health and have no constitutional affection. Treatment, (a) Prophylactic.—The exciting cause of the disease being recognised, the preventive treatment follows as a matter of course. If the patient be in a position to spend the months of the year in which the affection comes on either at sea, at the seaside or abroad, the symptoms may never appear. In many cases, where this is not possible, much may be done by treating the nose, but precisely how much improvement will follow treatment in a given case it is impossible to predict with certainty. (b) Local.—The first object of local treatment is to remove any abnor- mality of the nose, whether it be a hypertrophied turbinate or a spur on the septum, etc. It is remarkable how much relief may be occasionally obtained by a little operation such as the removal of an apparently insignificant cause of nasal obstruction. Failing this, the best and most reliable treatment seems to be cauterisation of the nasal mucous membrane. In many cases systematic examination of the interior of the nose with a probe or a small pledget of wool dipped in cocaine solution will bring to light, perhaps on the already described area of the septum, some very sensitive spots contact with which immediately sets up sneezing and rhinorrhcea; such spots should always be carefully sought for. If found, the sensitive area should be anaesthetised and freely destroyed by the electric cautery. As a rule it is not necessary to destroy the mucous membrane deeply, but the whole superficial area of the mucous membrane should be burned with a flat cautery-end. Should no sensi- tive spots be found, the nose may be washed out daily with an alkaline lotion (see p. 282) and its interior coated with oil, such as almond oil, by means of an atomiser (see p. 284) in fact, for a time the nose may be treated exactly on the lines already laid down for the treatment of chronic rhinitis (see p. 300). Should this fail, the effect of cauterising the inferior turbinates should be tried. The flat-ended cautery should be taken and, under cocaine, three or four longitudinal lines should be drawn along the whole length of the inferior turbinate. By this purely empirical means the majority of the cases may be cured and practically all of them con- siderably relieved. In many cases however the disease will return in a bad hay-fever season, and the treatment may even require to be repeated yearly. In addition to these local measures, tonics, especially arsenic, should be administered. (c) During an attack.— Relief or temporary relief of this affection during the actual attack may be obtained by the use of cocaine. A solution of 2% or 4% may be occasionally sprayed into the nose, and a drop or two may be instilled into the conjunctivae. This will usually pro- duce complete relief from all the symptoms in two or three minutes, but if the patient remain exposed to the source of the irritation, it will require to be repeated every hour or so. Consequently the remedy is a very