67 INTRA-CRANIAL SUPPURATION. or below it, according as it is desired to explore the cerebrum or cere- bellum (see Fig. 18). The method of exploring the brain is described below; in practising it under these circumstances, the greatest care must be taken to prevent the introduction of septic material from the antral region into the brain. The forceps are carried horizontally forwards above the sinus to explore the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, and forwards and inwards below that structure to explore the cerebellum. In other cases, however, the symptoms may point so clearly to an abscess of the brain, that, after clearing out the focus of the disease in the Fig. 18.—Exploration of the Cerebrum and Cerebellum through the same opening in the Skull. By enlarging the incisions in the soft parts and the bone as shown above, the dura mater can be exposed on either side of the lateral sinus, and both the temporo-sphenoidal lobe and the cerebellum explored for an abscess, a, Dura mater over the cerebellum; i, lateral sinus ; c, dura mater over the cerebrum ; d, mastoid antrum laid into the auditory meatus; e, mastoid process; /, dotted outline of the lateral sinus. ear, it will be unnecessary to proceed to expose the sinus, and the brain abscess should be sought for at once. The following methods may be tried : In operating for abscess in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, the best plan is to apply the pin of the trephine about an inch and a quarter above Reid's base line,1 directly above the external ear. The dura mater, which bulges into the opening and does not pulsate, is incised and the temporo-sphenoidal lobe exposed. In incising the dura, any large vessels running across it should be avoided if possible or picked up in forceps as soon as the incision has been made. It is sufficient at first to make a small slit in the dura mater just large enough to admit sinus forceps, and this need not be enlarged unless pus be 1 This is a straight line passing from the lower margin of the orbit to the centre of the external auditory meatus and prolonged backwards (see Fig. 22).