CHRONIC INFLAMMATIONS. nasal mucous membrane for a short time, after which recovery will usually ensue. (c) Of epistaxis.—As already indicated, the prophylactic treatment of epistaxis consists in the prevention of the formation of crusts on the septum by the application of oily preparations (see p. 284), and in the avoidance of trauma, such as picking the nose, etc. By the assiduous employment of such remedies epistaxis may be entirely prevented. Should a case be seen while the bleeding is still active, it will probably be found to come from a spot on the septum. The bleeding may be at once arrested by inserting a strip of gauze or wool, covered with ointment, into the affected nostril and firmly closing the anterior nares over it; thus direct pressure will be made upon the affected part. The patient may be instructed to carry this out for himself. When the bleeding is only slight, and the means are at hand, the electric cautery may be applied to the bleeding point and the vessel sealed. In all cases of repeated epistaxis, in which enlarged veins are seen traversing the excoriated area of the septum, it is well to obliterate them by a few touches of the cautery. (d) Of perforating ulcer of the septum.—When ulceration of the septum has occurred, the treatment of the rhinitis must be ener- getically carried out on the lines already laid down, in order to induce it to heal, and to prevent perforation occurring. When once a perforation has formed nothing can be done to make it close; on the other hand, it will continue to spread unless the dryness and crusting of the mucous membrane be prevented. In these cases the crusts have a special tendency to adhere to the edges of the perforation, and therefore the patient must be carefully instructed to apply the oil or ointment to the margin of the ulcer with a brush, and this must be continued regularly, until the edges of the perforation have soundly healed. ATROPHIC RHINITIS.—The essential features of atrophic rhinitis or ozaena are an intensely foetid, crusty, muco-purule)it nasal discharge, and abnormal patency of the nasal fossa, due, in most cases, to the small size or almost complete disappearance of the inferior turbinate bodies. Causes.—The etiology of the disease is by no means agreed upon. This much however is certain that the secretion, as it forms, is fluid, and the formation of crusts depends upon its prolonged exposure to the air current, aided by the extreme patency of the nostrils. The fcetor entirely depends upon the decomposition of this discharge, due to its long- retention in the nose and exposure to the action of putrefactive bacteria. The retention of the discharge in the nose is due partly to the abnormal patency of the nostrils diminishing the vis a ie.rgo in blowing the nose, partly to the adhesiveness of the crusts, and partly to pathological changes in the mucous membrane, and especially in the ciliated epithelium, as described below. The abnormally large size of the nasal fossai is prob- ably in part congenital, for the disease is often hereditary and associated with a peculiar physiognomy ; the patient's head and face are broader than