THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. 362 for this will not arise and,- as the child grows older, the growths will atrophy. Palliative.—The object of this treatment is to place the child under the best hygienic conditions and to keep him free from catarrh. Under such circumstances adenoids may give rise to no symptoms. The best plan, when practicable, is to send the patient away to the seaside, to keep him as much as possible in the open air and to attend carefully to all questions of diet. A warm, bright, dry place should be chosen, cold and damp being avoided. This should be combined with the administration of suitable tonics such as cod-liver oil and the syrups of the phosphate or iodide of iron. Operative.—The risk of operation is probably very slight. The dangers to be guarded against are those of the anaesthetic, of possible haemorrhage, of asphyxia from blood entering the air passages, of sub- sequent pneumonia, of sepsis and especially of acute suppurative otitis with its complications. The anesthetic.—In children over ten and in adults, especially if the growths be limited to a large central pad, nitrous oxide anaesthesia is sufficient. When however the growth is filling Rosenmiiller's fossa, is adherent to the posterior lips of the Eustachian tube, or when associated with the adenoids there are other hypertrophies, such as enlargement of the posterior ends of the inferior turbinates, a more prolonged anaesthesia is necessary, and for this purpose gas and ether is probably the best. A prolonged anaesthesia is always advisable when operation is undertaken for the relief of marked deafness. In the majority of cases in children it is best to give chloroform or ether, or one of the anaesthetic mixtures. Probably the most convenient and safest measure is to commence with the A.C.E. mixture and to complete the anaesthesia by giving pure ether which may be safely pushed until the palate is sufficiently relaxed to enable the operation to be easily carried out, but at the same time the cough reflexes should not be completely abolished and the patient should be able to swallow the blood as it accumulates in the pharynx. This method usually allows three or four minutes' good anaesthesia, and this is usually sufficient time to thoroughly remove the growth, but if necessary it may be prolonged by giving chloroform through a Junker. In giving the anaesthetic, the existence of nasal obstruction must be remembered and therefore free mouth-breathing must be allowed, and a gag inserted if necessary. The instruments.—For the removal of the growths a post-nasal curette —such as some modification of Gottstein's—and adenoid forceps are required. The points to be attended to in choosing the curette are that its top cutting edge should be fairly strong and not too thick, and that it should be attached by two bars which are parallel and which do not meet at an angle as in many of the instruments (see Fig. 127). It may be provided with a hook or cage to catch the growth, and it is well to have two curettes