CANCER OF THE LARYNX. 263 the trachea,1 whereas, on the other hand, where the pharynx is completely shut off, the tracheotomy wound is protected from discharges and the risks of the operation are comparatively slight. This is such an important matter that in most cases we prefer the operation which completely shuts off the trachea from the pharynx. In cases requiring the complete opera- tion there are almost always numerous enlarged glands in the neck and it is well to divide the operation into two stages (see p. 259). It must be remembered that enlarged glands are very likely to be present on both sides of the neck and both anterior triangles may therefore require to be cleared out.2 The removal of the larynx is done as follows: A vertical incision is made from the upper border of the hyoid bone down to a little below the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. Transverse incisions are made at the upper and lower end of this and the two flaps thus formed are dissected up freely. Usually it is well not to take the perichondrium of the larynx. After the sides of the larynx and the attachment of the pharynx to it have been defined, the trachea should be divided completely across below the cricoid cartilage and this should be done somewhat obliquely from before upwards and backwards. The oesophagus and pharynx can now be peeled from the back of the cricoid cartilage with a blunt dissector, which can generally be inserted between the perchondrium and the cartilage, and thus there is less risk of injuring the pharynx. When the upper part of the cartilage is reached, the pharynx is peeled off as far as possible right up to the aryteno-epiglottidean folds, provided that these be not affected. When the point is reached above which it is not safe to leave any more of the mucous membrane, this must be clipped across, the epiglottis being also divided or removed altogether; a few snips of the scissors will now detach the larynx completely. This leaves a large gap communicating with the pharynx, whilst the obliquely divided end of the trachea lies in the lower part of the wound. The next step is to shut off the pharynx, and this is done by first of all sewing up the mucous membrane with a separate row of stitches, the mucous surface being turned inwards as far as possible. It is best, if possible, to bring up and suture the anterior wall of the pharynx to the base of the tongue transversely. Next, the muscles and soft tissues over 1 The passage of blood and discharges down the trachea, during and after the operation, may be avoided to a large extent by attention to the position of the patient. We usually raise the shoulders on a large sand-bag so that the head is low and the blood runs into the naso-pharynx. Keen has recently suggested the adoption of the Trendelenburg position, and proposes in his next case to dispense with a preliminary tracheotomy, and to begin by dividing the trachea across below the larynx, attaching it to the skin, and inserting an ordinary tracheotomy tube through which the ancesthetic may be given by means of the apparatus shown in Fig. 81, p. 239. Keen further suggests that after the operation the patient should be kept in the Trendelenburg position for 24 hours. The next day he is to be kept lying flat, on the third the shoulders may be raised, while on the fourth he may be allowed to sit up. 2 The method of removing glands from the neck will he fully described in Part VI.