THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. 328 MALIGNANT NEOPLASMS.—These are not very uncommon, and may be either sarcomata or carcinomata. Formerly they were generally considered as being sarcomata, but this is probably an error, the most common form of malignant growth being a cyli7idrical-celled carcinoma. This usually commences in the upper part of the nose in the mucous membrane covering the ethmoid. It may, however, commence on the septum, the floor of the nose, or the inferior turbinate. It is most common in old people, is of very slow growth, and produces no con- stitutional effects until very late. Secondary glandular involvement is also extremely rare. In the earlier stages the case may greatly resemble one of nasal polypus, with which it is indeed not unusually complicated; soon, however, the growth becomes unusually large, the surface often ulcerates, and very free haemorrhage occurs on touching it or on attempts to remove it. Spontaneous epistaxis is not uncommon. If the growth be left untouched it fills and expands the nose and extends through the walls, producing considerable deformity. The nasal bones may be pushed out, or the orbit or frontal sinuses may be invaded resulting in proptosis, pressure on the optic nerve or other ocular disturbance. Treatment.—These growths appear to be less malignant than similar growths elsewhere, and much less extensive operations may be successfully undertaken than would be justifiable in other regions. Of the actual methods of operation nothing need be said here, but the object in all these cases should be to remove the growth as thoroughly and as widely as possible; even in cases in which the growth is apparently very extensive, operation may be performed. In many cases simply scraping the whole of the apparently affected region, drying it and applying the cautery has apparently proved successful. Also even after recurrence has taken place, the treatment may be successfully repeated. A sarcoma of the nose is most frequently of the spindle-celled variety, and most often commences in the ethmoidal region. As the growth enlarges it invades the accessory sinuses and air cells. These tumours also commonly have a low degree of malignancy, and, if they can be thoroughly removed, the prognosis is not bad. Of other tumours, such as epithelioma and rodent ulcer occurring in the vestibular region, nothing need be said here.