AFFECTIONS OF THE SCALP. 5 wall as possible. This not only removes material which is slow in organis- ing but also enables the walls of the cyst to come together more readily. Croat care must be taken with the aseptic management of the case for suppuration beneath the occipito-frontalis is a serious matter; it is well therefore to shave a considerable area of the scalp in the vicinity of the hsematoma before operating and then to purify it scrupulously in the usual manner (see Part L, p. 161). The cyanide paste {vide infra) and anti- septic dressings are applied and are changed daily for the first two or three days. At the end of the third day the drainage tube can generally be left out and satisfactory healing will usually be obtained. 3. To prevent infection.—When there is a wound of the scalp in the vicinity of the hematoma, it should be treated as an ordinary scalp wound (see p. 6) even though it be a mere abrasion, as otherwise a violent and dangerous suppuration may be readily set up. Should suppuration occur in a hcematoma, it must be freely opened and drained, the lining wall and all breaking down blood-clot being scraped away with a sharp spoon. Should the patient strongly object to the necessary shaving, the hair may be thoroughly impregnated with the double cyanide of mercury and zinc powder mixed into a paste with [-20 carbolic lotion. If the hair be first thoroughly disinfected with strong mixture and then have a quantity of this paste plastered into it it practically becomes an antiseptic dressing and therefore need not be removed to any great extent. (c) THE SUB - PERICRANIAL HEMATOMA.—A hsematoma underneath the pericranium occurs most frequently in young children, not uncommonly at birth. In the latter case it may be due to the compression of the foetal head, with consequent fracture of the external table of the parietal or frontal bone and rupture of the veins of the diploe. It is more common over the parietal bone than elsewhere. The extravasation is usually limited by the- sutures and does not extend beyond the particular bone over which it first occurred. The characters of these extravasations, especially when absorption fails and a true blood-cyst forms, are the same as those already described in the sub-aponeurotic form, and it is especially in these cases that a mistake in the diagnosis between a blood cyst and a depressed fracture takes place. The absence of signs of compression and the absence of symptoms arising when the bone in the centre of the swelling is pressed upon imply that the case is one of cephal-hamiatoma rather than of depressed fracture. Treatment.—The treatment of cephal-haematoma is in every way similar to that just described, and it is well to obtain rapid absorption of these swellings as soon as possible, as otherwise permanent injury to the bone may result. Indeed, in some cases the bone may become absorbed and per- forated. Henc e, if absorption of the fluid does not occur in the course of a week or ten days, resort should generally be had to puncture or drainage without further delay.