CUT THROAT. 237 W hen the incision is through the thyro-hyoid space, the base of the epiglottis may be severed, and a similar obstruction to respiration is then produced. In this case also there may be free bleeding from the lingual or superior thyroid vessels. The superior laryngeal nerve may also be divided, and in this, as well as in the next group of cases, the blood may pass down into the trachea and may actually choke the patient. When the wound of the air-passages is through or below the thyroid cartilage the oozing is generally very free indeed, and there is great risk of rapid asphyxia from the entrance of blood into the air-passages. Should the trachea be completely divided, the risk of asphyxia will be still greater, as the interference with respiration is then due not merely to entrance of blood but to actual displacement of the two halves of the tube. The recurrent laryngeal nerve is also frequently injured in these cases, and the carotid artery may be also divided, especially if the oesophagus be wounded. Amongst the later complications may be mentioned septic infection of the wound, leading to diffuse cellulitis extending down into the mediastinum, and bronchitis and broncho-pneumonia, the latter being especially apt to occur, as the patient is often in a low state of health at the time of the self-inflicted wound. Among the less frequent sequelae are emphysema of the neck, an aerial fistula, subsequent laryngeal stenosis or paralysis of one vocal cord following division of the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Apart from these complications, the fact must never be lost sight of that the patient is very likely to repeat the attempt upon his life. Treatment.—1. When the air-passages are not implicated.—There is nothing of special importance in these cases, the treatment following the lines for ordinary wounds. The main essentials are the arrest of bleeding, and the disinfection and proper suture of the wound. The bleeding is usually very slight when the air-passages are not opened, because the incision does not extend deeply. Sometimes however, when the attempt has been made with a sharp-pointed knife thrust deeply into the neck to begin with, there may be serious haemorrhage; under such circumstances, if the patient be still alive when the surgeon sees the case, the first thing to be done is naturally to apply firm digital pressure to the bleeding point. The best way to do this is to thrust the thumb firmly into the wound and, placing the fingers and palm of the hand over the back of the neck, to press strongly backwards. The wound is then enlarged or its edges retracted and all blood-clot is removed. Should the bleeding be satisfactorily arrested by the temporary digital pressure, the next step is to wash the wound out thoroughly with 1-20 carbolic lotion and dis- infect it in the ordinary manner. Then, if the bleeding comes from some of the smaller vessels, these can be seized and tied; if one of the larger trunks be injured, it will be necessary to extend the incision upwards and downwards over its course, to divide the deep fascia, separate the parts freely and have the wound well retracted. The surgeon then transfers the duty of compressing the bleeding vessel to his assistant, who