TRIGEMINAL NEURALGIA. front and behind to preserve the continuity of the jaw with the articular and coronoid processes. At this stage the inferior dental artery may be cut through by the trephine and give rise to troublesome hemorrhage. The disc of bone having been lifted out and the bridge of bone between the condyle and coronoid process clipped through with bone pliers so as to increase the space in which to work, some loose fatty tissue presents and should be carefully picked away with two pairs of dissecting forceps. The tendon of the temporal muscle is thus more clearly defined, and must be held forward, if necessary. Narrow spatulse are useful at this stage, not only to keep the wound open, but also by their pressure to arrest hemorrhage from divided muscular branches. If the bleeding is troublesome the wound should be packed for a few moments with small pieces of sponge wrung out of hot 1-40 carbolic lotion, any obvious bleeding point being secured by ligature. The inferior dental artery, if still intact, is usually first seen and may be secured by passing two ligatures around it with an aneurism needle and dividing it between. The lowest fibres of the external pterygoid muscle are seen running transversely across the wound and require to be held upward or carefully divided, to demonstrate the two nerves passing down from behind. The trunk of the inferior dental nerve can then be raised upon an aneurism needle, and the lingual found a little internal and in front ; indeed it occasionally happens that the nerves lie in such close proximity to one another that they are picked up together. A silk or catgut ligature may be advantageously passed around them in order to be able to make traction. It is now easy by a little manipulation with the handle of a scalpel to trace them up to the foramen ovale, which can even be seen, if the external pterygoid muscle be held well out of the way. The nerves can then be divided close to the skull either by scissors or knife, and the meningeal artery should be in no danger if the nerves have been sufficiently isolated. Peripheral traction is also employed so as to draw up as much of the nerve as is possible, and thus a considerable portion—more than an inch— of the trunks can-be readily removed." Eemoval of the Gasserian ganglion—Rose's Method.1 " Preparation ofpatient.—The patient should be in as favourable a condition as possible. The bowels are moved by a mild purgative given the night before. The face is washed as thoroughly as the patient will permit with soap and carbolic solution (1-20) some hours before, and an antiseptic dressing applied. This is important seeing that (as I have pre- viously remarked) the skin is often very dirty on account of the pain caused by any attempts at washing. Chloroform is, perhaps, the most convenient anaesthetic to employ, and when the patient is fully under its influence, the skin and external ear should be again thoroughly cleansed, and a plug of salicylic or some antiseptic wool inserted into the meatus. The conjunctival sac must also be thoroughly washed out with an efficient but unirritating anti- septic, a 1-2000 solution of corrosive sublimate being, perhaps, the most satisfactory ; during this proceeding, the lachrymal sac should be squeezed, as collections of mucus are often found therein, and regurgitation of these through the canaliculi may cause septic contamination of the conjunctiva. In order to ensure closure and protection of the eye, both during the operation and for some days after, two fine horsehair or catgut sutures are introduced through the integument of the upper and lower lids about 2 mms. from the palpebral margin of either lid, and exactly opposite each other, taking up small folds of the lax skin, which are approximated by tying the sutures. " The skin incision (Fig. 36) is made by entering the knife over the malar bone about half an inch below the external angular process of the frontal, and carrying it along the zygoma, and down in front of the ear over the parotid region to the angle of the jaw, and then forward along the lower border of the horizontal ramus as far as the facial artery. This done, a flap can now be dissected forward, consisting of skin and subcutaneous fat only, care being taken not to injure Stenson's duct or any of the branches of the facial nerve which lie in close contiguity to the masseteric fascia. Before this is completed, 1 The Surgical Treatment of Neuralgia of the Fifth Nerve, by William Rose.—London, 1892, p. 62.