INTRA-CRANIAL INJURIES. 45 dition characterised by a slow and usually full pulse, by slow and often stertorous respiration, with dilated and fixed pupils, the dilatation being most marked and sometimes indeed only present on the side of the haemorrhage. Other symptoms are paralysis, which varies with the position of the clot and is due to pressure on the motor areas of the cortex. In some cases there may be spastic contractions of various muscles with twitchings or even epileptiform convulsions ; when these occur, some laceration of the brain substance is generally also present. Following this period of irritation there will be paralysis if the clot be over one of the motor centres, limited at first to that centre but extending later and perhaps involving the whole body. Prognosis.—The prognosis of intra-cranial haemorrhage is bad ; unless operative measures be adopted it is hopeless. The case, if left to itself, usually ends fatally within a few hours from the intra-cranial pressure; in the few cases that have recovered the patient has generally been left in a state of mental or physical disability, or subject to epileptiform con- vulsions. Hence the earlier the haemorrhage is arrested and the clot removed the better, for, even though the compression may be relieved and the patient's life saved by operation at a later period, the brain will probably be unable to expand, or fatal oedema of the brain may result. Treatment.—The head should be entirely shaved, and the scalp scrupulously purified (see p. 7). When the patient is comatose, no anaesthetic is necessary; chloroform should be chosen in preference to ether when one is required as it causes less cerebral congestion. Even where an anaesthetic is employed it is only required for the skin incision as a rule, an occasional whiff being all that is necessary afterwards. The head is turned to the opposite side and steadied on a sandbag. Unless the symptoms or the situation of the fracture point to rupture of the posterior branch of the middle meningeal, the anterior division should first be exposed. This is most conveniently found about an inch and a half behind and about the same distance above the external angular process of the frontal bone. A large semilunar flap with its convexity upwards should be rapidly turned down with its centre opposite this spot, the peri- cranium, the temporal fascia and the temporal muscle being carried down with the flap. The bleeding vessels are seized with pressure forceps and usually will not require ligature; the weight of the forceps keeps the flap out of the way. A fissure should be looked for, and if found the trephine should be applied over it, the pin being inserted just to one side of it, about an inch above the level of the zygomatic process. Usually the presence of a fissure is indicated as soon as the flap is turned down by extravasation of blood into the temporal muscle. It is always best to trephine over the fracture first, because the blood may come from one of the smaller twigs and not from the main branch. When no fissure can be seen, the pin of the trephine should be applied over the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. The trephine should have a conical crown so that it cannot slip into the cranial