3IO THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. (b) Local.—The local treatment must be conducted on similar lines in both forms of the affection. In the first instance it is best to cleanse the nose with a non-stimulating alkaline solution, such as a solution of borax, soda and salt (see p. 300); this can be used two or three times a day. In all severe cases it should be followed up by the application of an oily solution ; eucalyptus oil (one part to twenty of almond oil), may be applied by means of an atomiser (see p. 284), or painted on the anterior parts of the nose with a camel's hair brush. The thorough application of the oil to the anterior part of the septum is one of the most essential points in the treatment of cases of commencing ulceration. It prevents the adherence of crusts and consequently arrests the ulceration, avoids perforation, and cures the epistaxis. Should this simple lotion not cure the dryness, various additions may be made to it. Carbolic acid (1-2 grains to the ounce), may be added; or ammonium chloride (5 grains to the ounce), the latter especially being very useful. Also an inhalation of cubebs (see p. 428) may be tried, especially when the dryness in the nose is associated with marked laryngeal and pharyngeal symptoms. It is also often necessary to wash out the naso-pharynx; this may be performed either with a post-nasal syringe or a spray. In obstinate cases when there is a constant tendency to clear the throat and to hawk up phlegm from the back of the nose, associated with a marked formation of tenacious crusts in the post-nasal space, the throat should be well swabbed out once every day with a brush or a pledget of wool dipped in Mandl's solution. This solution contains Iodine, gr. vj., Potass. Iodid. gr. xx., 01. Menth. Pip. m. vj. to the ounce of glycerine. For the cough and dryness of the throat carbolic acid or borax lozenges may also be prescribed and will often give great relief. Should this treatment fail, means to give rest to the mucous membrane should be adopted. This is easily obtained by plugging the nostrils with cotton wool and insisting upon mouth breathing. In this way, the air not being able to enter the nose, the secretion remains fluid and the crusts rapidly disappear. It may however be necessary to persist with the treatment for many months. In some cases the patient will always require to wash out the nose occasionally, and in such circumstances sodium chloride (one drachm to the pint of warm water) is the simplest and best lotion. When one nostril is obstructed.—When one nostril is obstructed, the opposite side of the nose, if at all wide, does double work, and is conse- quently very likely to become dry. In these cases the question of operation occurs, and is somewhat difficult to decide, as there is always a certain tendency to dryness after intra-nasal operations. It is generally advisable however to adopt means to clear the obstructed nostril, whether the obstruc- tion be a deflected septum, a spur on the septum, or a hypertrophy of the turbinates. As much as may be necessary, though as little as possible, should be done to clear the nose, and then it will be well to rest the