107 MOLES. for five minutes or so. Fifteen cells will probably be required at first, but the resistance soon diminishes and then some may be switched off. A pricking sensation is felt at first, but this soon passes off and is followed by complete anaesthesia to pain. The anaesthesia passes off in about a quarter of an hour. The only objection to this method is the penetrating odour of the solution. In rare cases anaesthesia is not produced at the end of five minutes, and it has been found to be advantageous in such cases to reverse the current after this time." MALIGNANT TUMOURS.—These form the most important group of tumours on the face, and may be either sarcomatous or carcinomatous in nature. The former present no special points of interest, and do not differ in any way from sarcomata elsewhere. Carcinomata.—Various forms presenting points of special interest occur upon the face, which is one of the common seats of the very slow-growing flat epithelial carcinoma, which is not infrequent in elderly people. This generally commences in some small pigmented seborrhcea patch or in a pigmented mole, but it may sometimes occur without any antecedent disease of the skin. Treatment.—The treatment of this form is satisfactory, as, if it be removed freely, a perfect recovery may ensue, with an insignificant scar. Glandular infection occurs very late in the disease. Another form is the tuberous epithelial carcinoma, which usually starts at the junction of the mucous membrane with the skin, most frequently in connection with the lower lip. This form will be referred to more in detail in connection with affections of the lips (see Chap. X.). Rodent ulcer.—A third form of epithelial carcinoma frequently met with on the face is the so-called rodent ulcer. The characters of this growth have already been referred to (see Part II., p. 164). When occurring on the face it is usually extremely slow in growth and may lead to widespread destruction of the bones and may ultimately cause the death of the patient by affecting the dura mater and so favouring septic meningitis, or by leading to haemorrhage or to attacks of inflammation such as erysipelas. Treatment.—The treatment here, as elsewhere, is early excision, which apparently is successful if care only be taken to go sufficiently wide of the growth. In the face this generally entails filling up the gap by means of a plastic operation or by Thiersch's skin-grafting. When the disease is too far advanced for a complete excision to be feasible, the best plan is perhaps to combine with excision of such portions as are accessible the application of some strong caustic such as nitric acid in a similar manner to that for lupus (see p. 101) or better still the employment of chloride of zinc paste or sulphuric acid}- As a rule nitric acid is inferior to sulphuric in that it does not eat far enough into the tissues to destroy the growth. In applying caustics such as these to a growth in the vicinity of the 1 For details as to the composition of these caustics and their method of application, see Tart II., p. 164.