SUPPURATION IN ANTRUM AND MASTOID CELLS. 407 to ascertain the position of the aditus, and guided by it the bridge of bone is removed by carefully chipping it away with a chisel. It should be remembered that this passage leads inwards in a slightly forward and upward direction and great care must be taken not to go too low or the facial nerve will certainly be injured. The operation must be continued till the whole outer wall of the attic is removed. This is best ascertained by passing a probe into the attic with its end bent upwards, and then by drawing it outward the existence of a ledge of bone in this position can be ascertained. When this has been completed the ossicles and remains of the membrane if present come into view and should be removed (see Fig. 139, C). The entire lining membrane of the tympanum should be freely but gently curetted, and the aditus and antrum thoroughly scraped out and cleaned. The soft parts now require to be dealt with. The best plan is to pass a director down the external auditory meatus and out through the mastoid wound. Along this the soft parts are divided for the entire length of the auditory canal, and a short transverse incision should be made at the outer end so as to unfold the funnel-shaped process and allow the parts to come into contact with and partly line the large wound which has been made. A suture is now passed through the outer angles of these two flaps and deeply through the skin behind the posterior incision so as to hold the flaps well apart and allow the mastoid antrum to be freely reached through the external auditory meatus. The wound behind the ear is now completely closed by a few interrupted sutures, which should be of some non-absorbent material such as silkworm gut. Free drainage is obtained through the external auditory meatus which should be lightly packed with a strip of cyanide gauze soaked in glycerine and iodoform emulsion. The ordinary dressings may now be applied. The chief dangers of the operation are wounds of the lateral sinus, of the middle fossa and of the facial nerve. The lateral sinus lies immediately behind the antrum and may be exposed if the opening in the bone be made too far back or if the sinus lie in an abnormal position. If care be taken by removing thin strips of bone, as above recommended, the sinus will only be exposed and not punctured and no harm will ensue. Should it be accidentally opened the bleeding is usually profuse, but it may be easily arrested by lightly packing the hole with a strip of gauze, and the operation may be continued. The middle fossa of the skull may be entered if the opening in the bone be made too high up, but unless this be carelessly done the dura mater will not be opened and no harm will ensue. Should the dura mater be accidentally wounded the opening in it should be thoroughly cleansed and closed by a fine catgut suture. The facial nerve may be damaged when removing the bridge of bone between the antrum and the auditory meatus, if the chisel be applied too low; or, when the last strand of bone is cut through, if too much force be used, the chisel may injure the aqueduct as it lies on the inner wall