THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. 48 After the clot has been removed and the artery secured, the next questions that arise are whether drainage shall be employed and whether the portions of the bone removed shall be replaced. The answers depend practically entirely on the expansion of the brain that follows removal of the clot. When the bleeding has quite ceased and the brain expands fully, so that the dura mater is again everywhere in contact with the bone, there is no need of drainage, and the portions of bone removed may be put back in place either as one large circle or in several small pieces. When, how- ever, the brain does not expand at once, a cavity is left between the dura and the skull, into which oozing will take place and a clot may again form and again cause pressure; under these circumstances, therefore, it is advis- able to insert a drainage tube, so as to allow of the escape of the fluid blood. Further, when the brain does not expand properly, it is of course out of the question to replace the bone removed by the trephine. When a drainage tube is employed, its end should lie over the hole in the skull, and it may generally be removed in two or three days. After the wound has been stitched up with a continuous suture the ordinary antiseptic dress- ings are applied and the patient put back to bed, propped up in the semi- recumbent position and kept upon an entirely fluid diet. Sub-dural haemorrhage.—In the operation just described the dura mater is not opened, the entire procedure being extra-dural. In some cases, however, it is found after exposing the dura mater that there is no blood between the membrane and the bone, but that the dura bulges outwards into the wound, shows the presence of dark bluish-black clot beneath it and does not pulsate. It is then clear that haemorrhage has occurred into sub-dural space either from the middle meningeal branches, the dura mater being torn and allowing the blood to escape inwards, or from the vessels of the pia mater. Under these circumstances the dura must be opened in order to remove the clot and secure the bleeding vessels. It is well to employ a curved incision in the dura so as to turn aside a semi-circular flap of the membrane with its convexity downwards; this lakes the line of incision as far away as possible from that in the skin. The incision should run about a quarter of an inch from the margin of the bone, and should be made first with a sharp knife, and then with a blunt-pointed pair of scissors, such as are used in eye operations. This exposes the clot (see Fig. 14), which is removed in the manner above described; the bleeding vessel is secured either by picking it up in forceps or by under-running. The wound in the dura is stitched up again, and no drainage need be employed if the brain expands properly during the operation. In stitching up the dura, however, it is well not to use a continuous suture; it is better to put in a few interrupted stitches, leaving intervals between them through which blood and serum may escape outwards. If the brain does not expand properly, a fine horsehair drain should be introduced beneath the dura and brought out at one corner of the flap. This is kept in position for two or three days.