THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE EAR. 372 using a smaller catheter, allowing it to completely rotate in the nose, or the nose may be thoroughly anaesthetised and the catheter inserted under direct illumination. When one nostril is completely blocked, an attempt should be made to reach the tube by passing the catheter through the opposite nostril. The beak of the catheter must then be longer and more strongly curved. Dangers in passing the catheter.—If the catheter be employed carelessly or with force, there is a risk of producing emphysema. This can only happen if the mucous membrane be injured by the point of the catheter, and therefore is- more likely to occur when there is inflammatory swelling or ulceration. If a catheter be used in such a case, and the air be forced through it before it is certain that the instrument is in its proper position, very extensive emphysema of the throat, or even of the whole neck and head, may be produced. As a rule it passes off rapidly and produces no ill effect, but it is an accident which ought never to occur, as it means that unnecessary force has been employed, or that the air passages in the neighbourhood of the Eustachian tube are inflamed or ulcerated, in which case the catheter should not have been used. Comparing these three methods of inflation, the catheter should be used when the other methods are ineffectual or when it is designed to obtain more accurate information as to the condition of the Eustachian tubes or of the presence or absence of fluid in the tympanum. It is also valuable when one ear alone is involved and it is not desirable to inflate the healthy ear. Politzer's method is the most simple and generally useful for treatment, and the patient can be easily taught it. Valsalva's method is only sufficient in cases of very slight obstruction. No method should be frequently used or employed for a long time unless under the careful supervision of the surgeon, as forcible inflation is apt to produce flaccidity of the membrane. Eustachian bougies.—These are very fine flexible rods, best made of celluloid. They are inserted through the Eustachian catheter after the latter has been placed in position. They are used in cases of obstruction of the Eustachian tube which do not yield to catheterisation. Care must be taken not to pass the bougie too far into the tube, the length of which varies, the average being about an inch and a half. The method is one capable of producing serious mischief; it must always be employed with the greatest care, and it is very doubtful if any permanent good results can be obtained by it. Estimation of the hearing power.—The hearing power may be tested by more or less constant sounds, such as the tick of a watch or specially made acoumeters, by the loud or whispering voice and by means of tuning forks. The watch is the most convenient test, as its tick is of constant intensity and affords a ready means of recording the progress, of a case. Politzer's acoumeter may be used when the watch is not heard. The human voice is however the most important test of hearing power, as