226 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS. mouth is allowed gradually to close. The tube can usually be left out altogether about the tenth day, by which time the whole line of incision will be healed with the exception of the place where the tube is. For the first two or three days the patient should be fed by nutrient enemata and suppositories. Subsequently he may be allowed to take liquid nourishment by the mouth, the fluid being put in a feeder to which a piece of india-rubber tubing is attached, and this is carried well back towards the pharynx on the sound side. It is well to turn the head to the sound side and rather depress it when taking food so that the fluid runs down along the healthy mucous membrane and does not come in contact with the raw surface. At the end of a week semi-solid food may be given and usually the patient may be allowed to get up. The bowels should be kept freely open and the mouth frequently syringed with antiseptic lotions, especially after taking food. After about a week the patient can generally rinse out the mouth for himself. After recovery there is usually considerable deformity because the portion of the jaw remaining becomes pulled over towards the affected side, partly from the want of support and partly from the contraction of the scar. With any sort of apparatus this is to some extent unavoidable, but inter-dental splints fixed on the sound side between the upper and lower jaw may be employed from an early period with the view of keeping the line of the teeth as normal as possible. The operation often requires to be modified according to the size and situation of the tumour. In some cases portions of the skin over the tumour must be taken away; a plastic operation is then necessary. As a rule it is unnecessary to cut through the free margin of the lip at the anterior part of the incision, but when the tumour is of great size, it may be impossible to avoid this; care must of course be taken in suturing the incision to see that the red line is in proper apposition. Where the jaw is much destroyed by the growth, it may be found that in depressing it in order to disarticulate, fracture may take place ; under these circumstances the fractured portion should be detached as rapidly as possible and the ascending ramus of the bone is then seized with lion forceps, pulled downwards and twisted or dissected out as before. Removal of the horizontal ramus alone.—When the tumour is endosteal and is limited, the ascending ramus may be sometimes left behind. The method is of course the same as already described, except that, instead of detaching the coronoid process and disarticulating, the jaw is sawn across at the angle. In some cases again it may be necessary only to remove smaller portions of the jaw. When the ascending ramus is left, it is well to try to keep the teeth on the sound side in proper position in some more effectual manner than by the use of inter-dental splints. One plan is to put a piece of boxwood between the divided bones or to fill up the interval with stent, these plugs being kept in while the healing is taking place so as to