251 TRAGI IEOTOMY. trachea. When they are not at hand, the trachea should be fixed as firmly as possible with the fingers whilst it is being opened, and, immediately this is done, the nail of the forefinger of the left hand is slipped in between the edges of the incision and made to depress one side over which the tube can be slipped into the trachea. When the tube has been introduced, care must be taken to see that air passes freely through it, as in fat patients in whom the trachea is deeply seated, it is easy to force the tube down in front of or to one side of the trachea. It is in these cases that a Durham's tube is particularly valuable as the thickness of the soft parts over the trachea may be easily allowed for by altering the position of the shield. The tube before introduction should be threaded with tapes which are passed round the neck and tied together at some little distance from the edge of the wound so that the knot does not interfere with the wound or press upon the vessels. Care must be taken to see that it is not tied sufficiently tightly to embarrass the venous circulation. After the tube has been inserted, one or two silk- worm-gut stitches are introduced into the wound above and below the opening so as to close the greater part of the incision. The best dressing is a large piece of boracic lint spread thickly with boracic ointment and slit vertically through half its depth so that it can be drawn up on each side of the tube. A few layers of gauze wrung out of hot water, and sprinkled with a little terebene, should be applied over the orifice of the tube; this should be changed every half-hour or so and kept moistened with hot water and terebene. The inner tube should be removed two or three times a day and thoroughly washed; should obstruc- tion arise, it must be removed immediately and thoroughly cleaned out. A special nurse must be employed night and day to see that the tube works satisfactorily and it is important that all material coughed up through the tube should be wiped away immediately with a fresh piece of gauze, so that it does not get sucked back into the trachea. Should the trachea not be thoroughly emptied, it is well to excite coughing occasionally by tickling the interior of the trachea with a fine feather introduced through the tube. These feathers should be boiled first so as to disinfect them, as otherwise they may introduce septic material; they should be kept in boracic lotion, which is squeezed out before the feather is introduced into the trachea. Unless an obstruction occurs which cannot be remedied by the mere removal of the inner tube, the outer tube should be left in position for the first 24 or 36 hours, after which it should be removed once or even twice a day if there be much discharge. A fresh tube should always be at hand to be immediately introduced on the removal of the old one, which should be thoroughly cleaned in cold water, boiled, and kept in boracic lotion until required. The subsequent management of the tube varies according to the con- dition for which the operation is done. The point of chief importance is the time at which the tube can be left out. It is obvious that this should