154 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. openings in the face; when the destruction extends to the septum there is only one large rounded opening, when this remains intact there are two. The extent of the defect varies in different cases and is frequently not quite so complete as above mentioned. Treatment.— (i) Loss of the bridge of the nose.—Here there are two deformities to deal with, namely, (a) the sinking-in of the bridge of the nose and (b) the tilting forward of the aperture of the nostrils. The amount of tilting varies in different cases and may be comparatively slight when it follows an injury in adults ; in other cases it is very marked. We have used the following method with success for marked tilting forward of the nose with Fig. 52.—Restoration of the Bridge of the Nose. The details of the opera'ion are fully described in the text. A shows the lines of incision for the various flaps. In B the flaps have been reflected and the tip of the nose freed and brought into position. In C the reflected flap from the forehead is sutured in position, while in D the lateral flaps have been brought together over the reflected forehead flap. The small triangular gap left at the root of the nose is afterwards rilled by the divided pedicle of the forehead flap, which is trimmed into shape and turned up again. loss of the bridge (see Fig. 52). A vertical incision is made from the root of the nose downwards on to the cartilaginous portion and is carried down to the remains of the nasal bones and the cartilage; it is continued on to the cartilage for about a quarter of an inch. The soft tissues are raised on each side, taking if possible any periosteum or even any fragment of the nasal bones that may be present. Transverse incisions are then carried across the upper and lower ends of this vertical incision, and two lateral flaps are thus formed exposing the remains of the nasal bone and the upper part of the cartilage The cartilaginous portion of the nose is then separated from its junction with the remains of the bony portion by a transverse incision, which of course passes into the nasal cavity and which must also be carried through the cartilaginous septum sufficiently far to enable the tip of the nose to be readily pulled into its normal position.