POST-NASAL ADENOID GROWTHS. found filling Rosenmuller's fossae (the deep depressions in the lateral wall of the pharynx behind the Eustachian tubes), and these masses may be adherent to the Eustachian cushions. Symptoms.—The presence of adenoid growths may be productive of various troubles, the most important of which may be briefly noted. There is a great susceptibility to colds and to repeated attacks of post-nasal catarrh, which commonly give rise to Eustachian obstruction, intermittent deafness and, in the more severe cases, recurrent attacks of suppurative otitis. The obstructed nasal respiration renders mouth-breathing necessary, and children who have adenoids may be generally recognised by the constantly open mouth and the stupid expression, which may be actually associated with ineptitude for mental exertion. Further, the obstruction to respiration is more marked during sleep, when the mouth is closed by the approximation of the tongue to the palate. Consequently the child's sleep is broken, he suffers from frequent "night-terrors," and on waking he is not refreshed, but complains of headache and giddiness. As a result of the broken sleep the general health suffers, the child becomes anaemic, wasted and stunted in growth. In infants or in growing children the difficulty of breathing may also give rise to the well-known form of " pigeon breast" or to well-marked depressions in the epigastric or the lower sternal regions. When these symptoms are present, the removal of the adenoids by operation is invariably necessary. Among other less frequent consequences of adenoids are the presence of a constant, irritating, short, barking cough which hardly ceases all day long, a tendency to chronic laryngitis, to bronchitis and to attacks of laryngismus stridulus. These conditions do not perhaps entirely depend upon the presence of adenoids, but in the majority of cases great improve- ment, and in not a few an absolute cure, may be obtained by removing them. A few other conditions, such as stammering, hay fever, hay asthma, and incontinence of urine in children have been ascribed to the presence of adenoids, but it is impossible to predict with certainty that improvement with regard to these symptoms will be obtained by operation. Treatment.—The first point to decide is the question of operation— whether the case may be treated for a time with palliative remedies or whether it is better to remove the growths at once. This question must be decided by the severity of the symptoms which can be fairly ascribed to the presence of the growths, and not in any way by the amount of growth present Very marked improvement in some cases may follow the removal of a very small amount of growth ; on the other hand a large growth sometimes produces no symptoms of importance. The operation, however, is by no means severe, and if any of the symptoms above enumerated be present, it is better to remove the growths. In other cases expectant treatment may be adopted and the case watched. Should urgent symptoms at any time arise, operation can be carried out, but if the patient is able to adopt proper precautions, in many cases the necessity