126 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. grain doses is useful during the severe paroxysms. In some instances methylene blue in three-grain pills seems to exercise a specific action. A nourishing diet should be administered and, as a local application, a liniment or similar application containing menthol is valuable, as may also be the linimentum terebinth, aceticum of the Pharmacopoeia. Should no improvement take place after a prolonged trial of these or similar remedies, and should the patient's condition become unbearable, the propriety of undertaking some surgical measure for the relief of the pain must be considered. Unfortunately in most cases these measures only yield temporary relief as the pain is apt to recur in a few weeks or months and further operations become necessary. The only method of surgical inter- ference that is likely to be of use in these cases is ?mcrectomy. Should the disease recur after operation, it may even be necessary to attack the Gasserian ganglion itself. Of neuralgia of the first division.—Supra-orbital neurectomy.—This operation is usually performed as follows : The eyebrow is shaved and the parts are purified. During the preliminary purification and the subsequent stages of the operation it is of course of great importance to prevent the access of strong antiseptic lotions to the conjunctiva. The supra-orbital notch, which can usually be readily felt, is first of all defined; it is situated near the junction of the middle and inner thirds of the superior orbital margin. The supra-orbital artery lies close to the outer side of the nerve. An incision is made three-quarters of an inch in length along the upper margin of the orbit, with its centre over the notch, the eyelid being drawn down and the parts steadied as the incision is made. The fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum are exposed and separated, when the nerve is seen emerging from the notch and lying upon the periosteum. It is carefully separated from the artery, picked up and pulled up into the wound as forcibly as possible, cut off flush with the foramen and as much as possible of it removed. The wound is then sutured and the ordinary dressings are applied. The small scar left will be almost entirely hidden by the eyebrow, and for this reason the incision recommended above is better than the vertical one sometimes employed, which has the disadvantage of dividing the fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum and sometimes its nerve supply, besides leaving a very noticeable scar. It no doubt renders the nerve more accessible, but, if the latter be pulled upon in the manner we have recommended, a sufficient length is brought into view to render all possibility of subsequent union out of the question. Of neuralgia of the second division.—When the second division of the fifth nerve is the seat of the disease, the pain may be referred to the teeth of the upper jaw, i.e. along the course of the superior maxillary nerve, or to the infra-orbital branch, when it will be referred to the side of the nose, the upper lip and the infra-orbital region. In the latter case, the appropriate treatment is to divide the infra-orbital nerve, whilst in the former the trunk of the second division of the fifth, along with Meckel's ganglion will require ablation.