THE PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE FACE. 155 A bony bridge to the nose is then manufactured in the following manner: An incision is carried vertically upwards to the margin of the hair, starting about half an inch above the root of the nose and about an eighth of an inch to one side of the middle line. This incision divides all the tissues right down to the bone. An eighth of an inch on the other side of the median line a similar incision is carried up parallel with the first. The upper ends of these incisions are connected by a transverse cut (see Fig. 52, A). In this way a flap is marked out about a quarter of an inch in breadth with its base at the root of the nose, and this is turned down along with a thin layer of the frontal bone beneath it. A narrow chisel, about the breadth of the flap, is introduced along each lateral incision and a portion of the external table is chiselled through on each side. The chisel is then introduced into the upper transverse incision, and, being sufficiently sloped, the superficial portion of the external table of the frontal is chipped off along with the flap, which, of course, is raised at the same time (see Fig. 52, B). When the lower end of the flap is reached, the bone is broken across and turned down. In this way a long, narrow strip is formed which, when turned downwards, has on its upper surface a thin layer of the frontal bone and' on the under surface skin from the frontal region. The flap should be long enough for its free end when turned down to be attached to the cartilaginous portion when pushed into its proper position. To enable this to be done without tension it may be necessary to prolong the lateral incisions a little downwards ; but a sufficiently broad pedicle must be left for the proper nutrition of the flap. The flap is then stitched with catgut to the freshened end of the cartilaginous portion of the gap (see Fig. 52, C), so that its cutaneous or deep surface covers the aperture into the nasal cavity between the bony and the cartilaginous portions. Above this gap the skin should be carefully shaved off the under surface of the flap, which is thus made raw and can become adherent to the tissues of the bridge. At the root of the nose there is a certain redundance of skin from the folding of the pedicle, which will be divided subsequently and turned upwards. To keep the tip of the nose in position we have found it a good plan to take a long splinter of a rabbit's femur and to stick one end of it into the tissues at the root of the nose and the other into the cartilaginous portion ; this forms a prop sufficiently long to keep the parts in position. The lateral flaps are finally undermined and united over the raw surface of the reflected flap (see Fig. 52, D). The upper transverse incisions should be curved downwards and outwards ; this allows a certain amount of sliding of the flaps downwards so that they can cover the opening between the tip of the nose and the bridge. The incision in the forehead is readily stitched up and leaves a hardly perceptible linear scar. At the end of three weeks the base of the reflected flap is divided and the little portion remaining is trimmed into a triangular shape and fitted in at the lower part of the vertical incision.