CLEFT PALATE. 177 the incision passing just internal to the hamular process. It should extend through at least half the vertical depth of the palate on each side (see Fig. 71). This procedure sometimes results in smart haemorrhage from the posterior palatine artery or some of its branches; this may generally be arrested by gentle pressure with a small piece of sponge in the opening, or, failing that, by syringing with iced boracic lotion. After-treatment.—The gag is now removed and the patient put to bed with the head low and turned to one side so that the blood may trickle out through the mouth. There is often a good deal of shock, and the patient should be surrounded with hot bottles or be put upon a large hot-water pillow. Food should not be given until all danger of vomiting has ceased, and for the first four or five days nothing but liquids should be taken; during the first 48 hours these are best given iced. The food should consist of milk, milk and soda or milk and lime-water. It is best given with a spoon and later on from a feeder furnished with an indiarubber tube which is passed as far back as possible at the side of the mouth. ..After the fourth day bread and milk, custards, arrowroot, etc., may be. given, but no solid food should be administered for at least ten days. The most important part of the treatment consists in keeping the patient absolutely quiet. Talking, laughing, crying, etc., must be guarded against as effectually as possible. The hands should be muffled if necessary and tied to the side to prevent the risk of the child sucking the thumb or fingers,1 and care must be taken to see that no toys or other things that the child might introduce into his mouth are at hand. It is also a good general rule to insist that no one shall be allowed to inspect the wound for at least ten days ; such inspection can do no good and may do harm. At the end of that time the palate should be examined and the stitches removed, at any rate from the hard palate; in order to do this satisfactorily, it it well to administer an anaesthetic. Should the union be good, all the stitches may be taken out then ; if at any part the union is doubtful they should be left in for a few days longer. Davies Colley's operation.—Recently another operation has been introduced by the late Mr. Davies Colley (see Fig. 72), which is of advantage in some cases, especially where the cleft is very wide, where several operations have been done and have failed, leaving much cicatricial tissue, or in infants where early operation is desirable. It consists of the following steps. A large triangular flap consisting of all the soft parts is first cut from one side of the hard palate ; if the two sides be unequal in size, it should be taken from the larger. This flap is marked out by an incision starting opposite and close to the last molar tooth, running forward parallel with and just internal to the teeth as far as the apex of the cleft. The incision is then carried downwards along the edge of the cleft about a sixth of an inch external to its margin and backwards well on to the beginning of the soft palate. The tongue-like flap thus formed is raised along with the periosteum with a raspatory. Along the opposite side of the cleft an incision is made about a quarter of an inch external 1 A perfectly effectual plan and one that is less irksome to the child is to mould small splints of cardboard or felt along the front of the arm from the middle of the upper arm to the middle of the fore-arm. This prevents the child flexing the elbow; he therefore cannot reach his mouth, but he can use his arms and can play with his toys, etc. PT. V. M