THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE EAR. meatus and about two-fifths of an inch behind it (see Fig. 139, A). To open it the chisel or gouge should be applied about half an inch behind the external auditory meatus on a level with its upper margin, and held slantingly so as to be almost parallel with the surface of the skull. The chisel is then driven in a forward and slightly downward direction until it enters the external auditory canal, and by proceeding in this way successive thin layers of bone are removed; great care must be taken to deepen the hole in the bone in a direction absolutely parallel to the external auditory meatus. The temporal ridge which marks the level of the floor of the middle fossa is generally a sufficient guide for the upper limit to which the bone may be removed. AVhen the wound gets deep sponging should be carried out by means of the prepared strips of gauze, and its limits should be contracted until the opening in the bone is funnel-shaped and does not extend more than a quarter of an inch backwards from the auditory meatus. If a cavity is met with, a probe should be passed in to ascertain if it be the antrum ; this may always be recognised by the probe passing through it in a direction forwards and slightly upwards into the tympanum. The antrum should be reached at a depth of not more than half an inch (see Fig. 139, B). As a rule after a superficial layer of dense bone has been removed bone of a more cancellous structure is met with, but in some cases of old-standing disease the mastoid becomes very hard and sclerosed and the antral cavity may be extremely small or almost entirely obliterated. In such circum- stances if the opening in the bone is made too low the canal of the facial nerve may be opened and the nerve damaged. In these circumstances if the antrum has not been reached by proceeding as above, the following method is advisable. The soft parts lining the external auditory meatus should be entirely detached and turned right out of the meatus. A probe with a bent tip can then be passed into the attic and aditus. The inner part of the superior posterior wall of the meatus should now be removed with a fine chisel, and then the probe can be passed into the antrum and by following its direction more bone can be removed until this cavity is opened. When the antral cavity has been opened, a bent probe should be passed in to ascertain its extent and its whole outer wall should be cleanly removed. Then by inspection and with the probe the interior should be examined and any carious spots removed with the curette. Careful exploration should be made to ascertain the existence of a sinus leading towards the mastoid cells and if found this should be followed up. In some cases the whole of the mastoid process is diseased and then the outer cortex of the bone should be entirely chipped away and the cells removed with a gouge or sharp spoon. The greatest care must be taken to reach the furthest limit of the disease. It is now necessary when not already done to remove the bridge of bone which forms the posterior and superior wall of the auditory meatus and which separates the latter from the antral cavity (see Fig. 139, B). A probe is passed through the antrum into the tympanum