4 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. can be exerted over the tumour. At the same time it must be admitted that the pressure obtained in this way is not nearly so good as that obtained by means of an elastic bandage. The pressure may be con- tinued for about a fortnight or even longer, provided absorption goes on steadily. In some cases, however, it will be found that, in spite of time and pressure, absorption comes to a standstill, that the central portion of the clot becomes fluid and that a blood-cyst is formed. Under such circum- stances the cure will be expedited by evacuating the fluid portion of the swelling and then applying pressure. The evacuation can readily be done by means of a full-sized aspirating needle, but great care must be taken to purify the scalp in the vicinity of the puncture, as otherwise the needle may carry in infective material from the skin and suppuration may result. Fig. 2.—Method of Applying Pressure to a Hematoma of the Scalp. In a the strips of bandage are shown in position and kept in place by the horizontal turns. The two ends of one particular strip are being pulled upon preparatory to turning them up and knotting them over the pad of wool as in b. It is not, as a rule, necessary to shave the part to be punctured, but it is well to clip away a few hairs around the point where the needle will enter and then to thoroughly scrub the scalp with the ordinary disinfecting solution, i.e. " strong mixture " (see Part I., p. 46). A small incision should be made through the skin through which the aspirating needle is inserted into the cyst. A catgut stitch will close the wound afterwards, and a small antiseptic dressing should be fixed on with collodion. A mass of wool may then be placed over the haematoma and pressure applied as before. Except in old-standing heematoma of considerable size, this treatment will generally lead to a cure. Occasionally, however, the fluid reaccumulates after tapping in spite of carefully applied pressure and it will then be necessary to drain the cyst. A small incision is made at the most dependent part of the tumour and a small drainage tube (No. 5 or 6) is inserted into its cavity. As a rule, it is well before putting in the drainage tube to introduce a sharp spoon and scrape away as much of the blood-clot on the