AFFECTIONS OF THE SCAFF. 3 hours. After that, if the hematoma be small and there be no reason to suspect any other injury, such as a fracture of the skull, little further need be done. The patient may be allowed to go about, but should be cautioned to avoid irritating the part by the pressure of the hat or by accidental scratching of the surface when combing the hair, etc. Absorption of the fluid usually takes place quite readily. A B Fig. i.—Tce-Caps. A is the improved form of Leiter's metal ice-cap, B the one made of spirally arranged tubing. 2. To hasten absorption.—When absorption does not occur, which is most likely to happen wh'en the hsematoma is large, a blood-cyst may result and the treatment of that condition is more troublesome. When absorption has come to a standstill, the first additional treatment should be the application of pressure, which is best exerted by means, of an elastic bandage outside a large mass of cotton wool previously applied over the swelling in order to diffuse the pressure. This arrangement should be kept on for two or three days and then reapplied if absorption has not taken place. When no elastic bandage is available, pressure may be applied by means of an ordinary bandage put on in the following manner. A large mass of cotton-wool several inches thick and large enough to overlap the hematoma in all directions for at .least a couple of inches is in the first instance applied over the surface. About eight or ten strips of stout unbleached calico bandage three inches wide and about a yard long, are then laid over the scalp in such a way that the ends radiate from the centre of the sagittal suture over which the centre of each strip is placed; the ends of each strip hang down on opposite sides of the head. The strips are next firmly fixed in place by a few horizontal turns of a bandage encircling the skull from the root of the nose in front to below the external occipital protuberance behind. After this has been fastened, the corresponding ends of each strip are taken one by one in each hand and pulled upon tightly so as to stretch the bandage and make it exert powerful pressure over the cotton-wool. The two ends of each strip are then taken up in succession around the horizontal bandage and knotted together over the cotton-wool (see Fig. 2). In this manner very firm pressure, equally diffused in all directions,