THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. i56 The result is to correct the position of the nostrils and to provide a bony bridge for the nose, but this tends to sink downwards as healing occurs and as a rule will not be high enough. After healing has occurred, we have however been able to heighten the bridge to the required extent by turning aside the skin flaps again and introducing pieces of bone re- moved from the femur of a newly killed rabbit in sufficient quantity to raise the bridge to its proper level. This cannot be done at the first operation on account of the free communication with the nasal cavity and the consequent risk of decomposition ending in necrosis of the bone; if however care be taken not to re-open the nasal cavity at the second operation, the pieces of bone will unite readily and give a very satisfactory result. In one case where the bridge was not high enough to please the patient we turned aside the flaps and put in some fresh splinters of bone about eighteen months later, with the result that the patient was ultimately completely satisfied. Other methods such as Langenbeck's have been employed. Here a convex incision is made across the nose from the insertion of one ala to that of the other over the line of junction of the cartilaginous and bony portions, thus liberating the tip practically in the manner above described. When the tip is pulled down, the crescentic defect left is filled by a flap of similar shape turned down from the forehead, taking up the periosteum and having its skin surface downwards. After union has occurred the base is divided and the skin over the nose and the adjacent part of the cheek on each side is brought over it. A similar flap is made by Konig, but in- cluding a thin layer of bone. These operations, however, are more con- cerned with the repair of the opening left after the liberation of the tip of the nose than with the restoration of the bridge; in bad cases it may be well to commence with this operation and then, when the tip has been satisfactorily fixed in its new position, to form a bridge in th.e manner above described. When the tip of the nose is not much deformed, it may not be necessary to make the transverse incision opening the nasal cavity, and then the treatment is easier. For example, flaps of skin may be turned aside from over the defect in the nasal bones and an artificial bridge of aluminium may be fixed in and the flaps turned back; or again the breast bone of a small bird, such as a canary, has been successfully introduced to form a bridge; but even in these cases we believe the best plan is to turn down a narrow flap of bone and superficial tissues in the manner already described, first removing the epithelial surface; the necessary heightening may be given to the bridge by the immediate introduction of portions of rabbit bone. 2. When the tip of the nose alone has been destroyed, the operation known as Syme's (see Fig. 53) is useful. The edges of the gap are pared on each side, a flap is cut from each cheek of the appropriate shape and brought inwards so that the adjacent edges meet in the middle line and can be sutured together; the outer and lower edges of the flaps are united to the