301 CHRONIC INFLAMMATIONS. For convenience the above lotion may be prescribed in powder or in- tabloid form, sugar being substituted for glycerine. As tolerance is estab- lished it may be used stronger, until equal parts of the lotion and water are being used. /;/ more chronic cases, and in those in which the above treatment fails,, the nasal lotion should be varied. A good effect will often be obtained by adding carbolic acid (2 grs. to the oz.) to the above prescription. In other cases chloride of ammonium (5 grs. to the oz.) or chlorate of potash (5 to 10 grs. to the oz.) may also be tried. Another lotion which is especially useful when the discharge is somewhat profuse is the following : 9 Spirit, vini. rect. "I Glycerini boracis, / One teaspoonful to two ounces of warm water to be used as a nasal lotion : or in very chronic cases it may be diluted with two parts of water and used as a spray. Astringents, even very weak ones, are generally to be avoided, as the nasal mucous membrane is extremely intolerant of such applications. In a few obstinate cases with profuse discharge however the effect of hazeline as a lotion (10 to 15 minims of the tincture to the ounce of water) may be cautiously tried. If the mucous membrane becomes dry, the most useful treatment is to spray the nose twice daily with an oily solution, such as eucalyptus oil (20-40 minims to the ounce of almond oil); or a few drops of this may be allowed to fall into each nostril twice a day. This treatment is used in addition to the daily washing with simple alkaline lotion. Should these means, aided by general treatment, fail, the best plan is to- reduce the swelling of the mucous membrane by the aid of the galvano- cautery or chemical caustics. The nose should be thoroughly anaesthetised and the congestion reduced by the application of cocaine or cocaine and supra- renal extract (see p. 285). Then any moisture should be removed by mopping with pledgets of absorbent wool. The electric cautery is to be preferred when obtainable. It is best to use a somewhat broad cautery-end and to make long linear cauterisations the entire length of the inferior turbinate. Care must be taken to avoid touching the septum, otherwise adhesions may take place between the opposed raw surfaces as healing occurs. To avoid this risk when the nostril is very narrow, it is preferable to use a sharp- pointed cautery and to plunge the point deeply into the swollen tissue of the anterior end of the inferior turbinate and to hold it there for a second; in this way shrinking of the swollen tissue is produced without much destruc- tion of the mucous membrane, and consequently without risk of producing adhesions. The beneficial effect however is slower to appear in this deep- method of cauterisation, and for the first few days there is frequently pain and increased disturbance. Of chemical caustics, chromic acid, trichlor-acetic acid and nitric acid have the greatest reputation; personally, I prefer the last-named. It should