456 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LARYNX. from rickets, and it is probable that the unstable nervous system which is the result of this disease is the most important factor in the causation, but heredity seems to have some influence. The exciting cause is often a slight attack of laryngitis or some cause of reflex irritation such as dyspepsia, teething, etc. Symptoms.—The attack usually comes on in the early morning hours. Suddenly a stridulous inspiration or two may occur or the child may wake up in terror and not a sound be heard. The face, at first flushed, becomes livid, the eyes are staring, the head is thrown back, there is often opis- thotonos, and occasionally general convulsions. After a few seconds to a minute the attack subsides, inspiration being accompanied by a loud crowing stridor, and the child is left exhausted. Very rarely a sudden soundless and quickly fatal spasm may occur. The attacks may be repeated at intervals or occur every night or in a much less severe form on any slight excitement. Treatment.—During the actual attacks the patient is usually best sitting up, and various household remedies such as slapping on the back, the application of a cold-water douch, or the inhalation of ammonia may be be tried. If the attack persist or be repeated, the best treatment is to place the patient at once in a hot bath, the effect of which may be aided by splashing cold water on the face. Another well-known household remedy is the administration of emetics, such as vinum ipecac. (]\ iij.—v. on a lump of sugar), or vomiting may be produced by tickling the fauces. If at hand the inhalation of a few drops of chloroform may be tried. Only in very rare instances should tracheotomy be performed, but it may be necessary as a preliminary to artificial respiration if the spasm persist very long. If the attack has been severe, it is well to administer a dose of potassium bromide and chloral; two grains of each may be given per rectum. In the intervals between the attacks, great care should be devoted to the treatment of the rickets. Digestive disturbances must be corrected by the administration of a purge followed by suitable remedies, and great care must be taken in the feeding of the patient, and especially the last meal before bed-time should be very light and taken at least an hour and a half before going to rest. In most cases change of air is advisable (see Treatment of Rickets, Part III, p. 208). REFLEX SPASM.—Laryngeal spasm may also occur in older children as the result of reflex irritation. It is especially common in connection with mild attacks of laryngitis, especially the subglottic form to which the term laryngitis stridulosa is commonly applied in consequence. It also occurs in association with adenoid growths in the naso-pharynx. In these latter cases the spasm may occur constantly during sleep. As the patient goes to sleep, snoring commences, becomes louder and louder until finally a laryngeal note is distinctly to be detected and then no air enters the chest during inspiration. The patient wakes up frightened,