THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. 234 Treatment.—The displacement is best reduced by manipulation. The throat is painted with a io°/o solution of cocaine, and the forefinger of one hand is introduced into the pharynx whilst the other hand outside manipulates the fragments into position. Should cocaine be insufficient to enable the patient to tolerate this, a general anaesthetic must be given. Although reduction of the deformity is easy, there, is great difficulty in keeping the fragments in position. An attempt may be made to prevent all lateral movements as well as flexion and extension of the neck by a properly moulded pasteboard or poroplastic collar, and the patient should be restricted from swallowing as far as possible for the first three or four days, food being given entirely per rectum. In addition to this he should be kept as much as possible in the upright position. The results thus obtained are very disappointing, and a better method would seem to be to expose the fragments immediately through an external incision and to wire the ends together. In simple fractures this method gives the patient immediate relief from pain and avoids the possibility of the deformity subsequently interfering with the proper action of the larynx. The bone can readily be exposed by a transverse incision over the seat of the fracture, care being taken in deepening the incision not to go too far back or too low down, which would endanger the superior laryngeal nerve. The bone is then wired in the ordinary manner (see Part III., p. 52). In a compound fracture, an external opening, such as would be necessary in the above operation, will be actually beneficial by providing suitable drain- age and preventing the cedematous inflammatory swelling which is apt to give rise to considerable trouble. FRACTURES OF THE CARTILAGES OF THE LARYNX.— These fractures are of considerable rarity, and are produced by causes whilst in any case it may come on after an interval, even when there has been no difficulty in breathing immediately after the accident. Treatment.—If there be obstruction to the breathing, it is advisable to perform laryngotomy at once. A small vertical median incision is made over the crico-thyroid space, its edges are well retracted, the muscles are separated, the crico-thyroid membrane is opened by a transverse incision, and a suitable laryngotomy tube (see Fig. 79) is inserted. The surgeon should at the same time enlarge the incision upwards and expose the alae of the thyroid cartilage. He can then bring the fractured portions Fig. 79.—Laryngotomy Tube. The cross section of the tube is oval, the short diameter being vertical. similar to those giving rise to fracture of the hyoid bone. The injury is very serious, a large proportion of the cases terminating fatally from the obstruction to respiration consequent on the displace- ment of the cartilaginous walls of the larynx. If the case be left untreated, this obstruction rapidly increases owing to the inflammatory reaction around the part,