THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. 98 The nose is a favourite seat both of acquired and congenital syphilis. This may be either a nodular syphilide of the skin or a gumma of the bones ; in the latter case .necrosis takes place, and as a consequence the bridge of the nose is flattened, the tip is turned upwards, and a most unsightly deformity is produced. Gummata may also occur in the tissues over the cartilage of the tip of the nose, leading to ulcers, which, however, generally yield readily to anti-syphilitic treatment, and leave only scars, or possibly some deformity about the margin of the nostril. Nodular syphilides are the cause of widespread destruction of the nose. The affection commonly commences a"bout the tip of the organ, which is very rapidly destroyed, and the diagnosis in early cases is difficult. The affection is apt to be confounded with lupus, the chief points in the diagnosis being the greater rapidity of the syphilitic lesion, the absence of the charac- teristic apple-jelly nodules, the larger size of the tubercles, and the extension of the disease to the bones. In advanced cases the bony structures of the nose may also be destroyed, so that all that is left of the organ may be an oval opening in the face. When this happens, there is extension of the disease along the nasal cavity, with destruction of the vomer or perforation of the hard palate. Treatment.—The treatment of the primary and secondary lesions presents no points of difference from that already recommended for the disease in general (see Part I., Chap. XII.). The gummatous form of the disease affecting the frontal bone has also been dealt with in connection with diseases of the skull (see p. 34). The nodular syphilide of the nose is usually arrested readily enough by the administration of large doses of iodide of potassium, combined with mercury, which is preferably employed by means of inunction. This form of the disease is more important in that it spreads with great rapidity and the deformity is irreparable ; therefore large doses of these drugs must be administered from the first so as to bring the patient as rapidly as possible under their action. TUBERCULOUS AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. These may occur in one of three forms—as tuberculous ulcers of the skin, as lupus, or as an intermediate condition between the two, often described under the name of "scrofuloderma." TUBERCULOUS ULCERS OF THE SKIN OF THE FACE — These usually occur either in connection with tuberculous glands in front of the ear or more frequently as a secondary result of tuberculous disease of one of the facial bones, such as the malar or the orbital margin of the superior maxilla. In the latter cases the skin becomes fixed to the bone when the ulcer heals, and the traction may interfere with the movements of the lower eyelid, or may even lead to very unsightly ectropion. Treatment.—Whenever an abscess forms it should be opened, scraped.