205 ANCHYLOSIS OF THE JAW. the neighbourhood of the angles, as has been already mentioned (see Plastic Surgery of the Face). A third condition leading to somewhat similar results is a spasmodic contraction of the elevator muscles of the jaw in connection with some inflammatory condition in the neighbourhood, such as an impacted wisdom tooth, and in these cases, after the spasm has lasted for some time, the muscles are apt to undergo shortening and permanent contraction is produced. Treatment.—The treatment of closure of the jaw therefore depends on the condition present. In the purely spasmodic cases the removal of the exciting cause will, if carried out early, generally lead to arrest of the condition within a short time. This will be greatly aided by the applica- tion of massage over the masseter muscle, the employment of frequent passive movements of the jaw, the use of a gag which is gradually dilated, and the application of a weak galvanic current to the temporal and masseter regions. The trouble in overcoming the contraction is directly proportional to the length of time that the affection has lasted. B Fig. 75.—Gags for Anchylosis of the Jaws. B is a very powerful gag and can be used to lever the jaws open, while the boxwood screw-gag A is introduced and left in position. When the affection is due to anchylosis of the temporo-maxillary joint attempts may first be made to remedy the condition by forcible move- ments under an anaesthetic, followed by passive movements and the use of a gag worn continuously. If, however, the adhesions have become firm, very little is to be hoped for from this method, and under such circum- stances the force employed to rupture the adhesions may very likely frac- ture the neck of the condyle ; moreover, the adhesions if torn are very apt to re-form. Hence, if the adhesions be so extensive and firm that they cannot be overcome by movement under an anaesthetic and subse- quent passive motion, the only alternative is to remove the condyle of the jaw and make a false joint. This operation is done as follows : An incision through the skin and superficial fascia, an inch and a half in length, is made along the lower border of the zygoma; it should