395 AFFECTIONS OF THE MIDDLE EAR. and throat and adenoids, post-nasal catarrh or any disease of this region must be appropriately treated. Prognosis.—The discharge can always be stopped in simple cases, and the importance of doing this, even where it is very scanty, should always be insisted upon, for, so long as it is allowed to continue, disease of the bone or extension of the infection to the inner ear, to the cranium or to the lateral sinus is liable to occur. The danger to life in cases properly treated is very slight, but no life can be considered a good one until all discharge has ceased for at least two years. With regard to hearing, a guarded prognosis must be given. In some cases the cicatrisation following healing may cause an increase in the deafness, but this should never be regarded as a contra-indication to treatment, for the continuance of the discharge will invariably cause deafness sooner or later. In the majority of cases the subsidence of the inflammation is accompanied by an increase in the hearing power. Of the complications.—These have been already referred to, and their treatment must now be briefly considered. Of small-sized or ill-situated fierforatioti of the drum.—The effect of this in hindering the escape of the discharge and preventing the application of remedies need not be insisted upon. The best treatment is to enlarge the perforation with a small probe-pointed knife (see Fig. 138). The drum should be anaesthetised by the application of a saturated solution of cocaine, and then, under good illumination and with a very sharp knife, the perforation should be enlarged, preferably in a downward direction, to the periphery of the drum. In most cases this is best accomplished by means of a V-shaped flap. The tympanum should then be washed out by means of a tympanic syringe and the antiseptic treatment discussed above should be adopted. In cases in which a pocket has been formed in the middle ear similar treatment should be adopted. Of attic disease.—Owing to the presence of the ossicles and various folds of mucous membrane, this region is divided up into numerous cavities which are extremely difficult to cleanse thoroughly and from which drainage is imperfect. The importance of this will be seen when it is remembered how closely the attic is connected with the cerebral cavity and also with the tympanic antrum. Disease of this region is therefore serious and often intractable, and prolonged suppuration is almost certain to lead to further complications. When first seen an attempt should be made to cleanse the cavity by means of the tympanic syringe. This must of course be used by the surgeon and to be efficient the patient should be seen every day. In the intervals the meatus should be kept cleansed by the patient himself in the way above described. Where it is impossible for the surgeon to personally treat the case daily, the patient may be simply instructed to syringe out the meatus and to insufflate powder. If this fails, as it generally will do in old-standing cases, operative treatment is indicated, and this is especially necessary if the patient