PREFACE. viii Only those plans are described which our experience has led us to believe are the best, but with regard to these we have endeavoured to state exactly and in detail what we ourselves should do under given circumstances. In some cases no doubt several methods of treatment are of equal value, and while we have only discussed at length that which we have ourselves been led to adopt, we have referred shortly to the others. We have not mentioned all the exceptional conditions that may be met with, but we have endeavoured to include all the circumstances with which the surgeon is most commonly called upon to deal. The task has been one of some difficulty, the more so as we have had, to a certain extent, to break new ground. This must serve as our excuse for the many shortcomings in the work. PREFACE TO PART V. For the sake of convenience in reference, the Intrinsic Diseases of the Nose, Ear and Larynx, have been grouped together to form one of the main divisions of the book. These subjects are dealt with by Dr. Lambert Lack, and to him we are deeply indebted. He wishes to express his thanks to Dr. C. A. Parker for help received in seeing the sheets through the press, to Messrs. Mayer and Meltzer for the loan of various instrument blocks, and to the Council of the Royal College of Surgeons of England for per- mission to reproduce various figures (Figs. 89-98, and 125) from his Jacksonian Prize Essay. Dr. Arthur Whitfield has been good enough to write an account of electrolysis for superfluous hairs, which will be found on p. 104. To Prof. Rose we are indebted for Figs. 36-39, to the New Sydenham Society for leave to reproduce Fig. n, to Prof. Arthur Robinson for the photographs from which Figs. 19, 21 23 are taken, and to Messrs. Down Bros, for the blocks of all the instruments in the first division of the volume. With the exception of these last, all the illustrations have been drawn by Mr. T. P. Collings from actual preparations or from rough sketches, and we wish to express our thanks to him. London. 1901.