389 AFFECTIONS OF THE MIDDLE EAR. even after incision and then it must be evacuated by means of suction with a Siegle's speculum, aided if necessary by inflation through the Eustachian catheter. When this has been accomplished the ear should be gently syringed with a mild antiseptic solution such as boracic acid, dried and a little boracic powder insufflated. If the fluid be very tenacious it may even be advisable to wash out the tympanum by means of a tympanic syringe. The fluid is not at all unlikely to re-form after the incision in the drum has healed and in such cases repeated evacuation may be necessary. Treatment of the adhesions.—In the early stages the frequent use of the Eustachian catheter may be sufficient to prevent adhesions or even partially to loosen them if they have already formed. Subsequently the mobility of the drum and ossicles may be increased by the regular use of Siegle's speculum—the so-called " massage " of the drum. The massage should be practised once daily by the surgeon himself and if improvement is produced its use should be continued. The improvement at first obtained is usually temporary but lasts longer and longer each time. This treatment should be combined with the use of the Eustachian catheter and continued with increasing intervals as long as improvement is produced. Occasionally considerable improvement may also be obtained by ordinary massage applied to the skin over the mastoid and to the auricle. The mastoid and the part below the ear are firmly rubbed in a downward direction by the thumbs and in a few cases permanent improvement may thus be produced. ^"here the above treatment has failed and the adhesions are very dense and extensive, operative interference has been recommended. The results are very uncertain and may even make the condition worse, and therefore such treatment must always be regarded as experimental and should only be carried out in very marked cases in which both ears are affected and in which the patient suffers considerably frOm the tinnitus. If operative treatment is decided on, local anaesthesia should be used. The knife is entered about the centre of the posterior half of the drum near its margin, carried upward parallel to the tympanic ring to the posterior fold, forward just below this fold and downward along the handle of the malleus, and the large flap of membrane thus marked out is turned downwards. The hearing should then be tested with voice and watch. Occasionally this operation may produce considerable benefit, but relapse almost invariably occurs when the perforation has healed. Under these circumstances, com- plete removal of the membrane and ossicles may be carried out. The steps of this operation are practically the same as when performed for suppurative otitis (see p. 396). When the operation is concluded, the parts should be dried and packed lightly with a small strip of iodoform gauze. This may be removed at the end of 24 hours and a little boracic powder insufflated, a small plug of wool being placed in the external meatus. In a few days the parts commonly become quite dry. It is not at all uncommon for the drum to be replaced by an adventitious membrane, but as a rule this new-formed