104 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. MOLES. Moles are very frequently met with upon the face, and are often a con- siderable source of annoyance to the patient. They may vary in size from a small pea up to a pigmented area larger than the palm of the hand. They are very frequently partially or entirely covered with hair. Treatment.—This has already been fully described (see Part I., p. 163). Should the patient desire to be relieved of the pigmentation, the only method open is to perform excision. If the mole be small and the incision suitably planned, the edges of the wound may be brought together by buried sutures (see Part I., p. 154), and the resulting scar may be quite unnoticeable. When the mole is too large to allow of this, Thiersch's skin-grafts should be applied to the raw surface, taking care to cut them as large as possible. The slight scarring resulting from this will, of course, be far less noticeable than the pig- mentation due to the mole. In other cases the patient desires not so much the removal of the pigmen- tation as to be freed from the presence of hairs upon the mole. Under these circumstances the plan suggested by Mr. Horsley may be adopted with advantage if the mole be large and thickly covered with hair (see Part II., p. 163). It consists in turning down a flap consisting of the skin upon which the mole is, and then shaving away the deep surface of the flap with a razor until the hair follicles are cut away. The flap is then replaced in position, the hairs fall out, and no further growth of them will occur; of course, this method leaves the pigmentation untouched. 'When the mole is small and only covered by a few hairs, a method which is also valuable for superfluous hairs upon the upper lip in females may be employed. This consists of the employment of electrolysis ; for the following details of the procedure we are indebted to Dr. Arthur Whitfield: "The battery should consist of dry or Leclanche cells coupled in series. It is seldom that more than ten cells are required for any opera- tion, but if there are eighteen, the battery may also be used for the production of anaesthesia by cataphoresis when necessary. A galvanometer reading in milliamperes is also a necessity. The needle used varies with the taste of the operator; the platino-iridium needle has the obvious advantages that it may be easily sterilised in the flame, it may be bent to any angle that may prove convenient at the time and it is not likely to be broken by the sudden movement of a nervous patient. For all purposes a needle bent at an angle of 45° at a distance of one-third of an inch from the free end is most convenient. The base of the needle may be an octagonal, hollow, metallic cylinder fitting directly on to the terminal of the lead as recommended by Brocq. This arrangement obviates the use of a heavy needle-holder and is far the most convenient for manipu- lation in awkward situations such as beneath the chin. The indifferent electrode is usually a large metallic cylinder covered with wash-leather