348 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. is much more effectual than any sharp spoon. The amount of tissue to be removed varies with the extent of the disease. In many cases some parts of the ethmoidal region seem healthy to the touch and should then be left alone. These healthy parts are at once distinguished by the finger and even by the curette, for they are firmer and smoother and give little hold for the knife. The diseased parts on the other hand feel like soft, gelatinous masses containing crumbling bone, and are very easily curetted away. In some cases the whole lateral mass of the ethmoid must be scraped away until a large portion of the periosteum lining the orbit is exposed. If the posterior part of the ethmoid seems unaffected, a large sponge should be pushed up into the post-nasal space to prevent blood entering the throat during the operation. If the whole ethmoidal region is affected this cannot be done, and in these circumstances the operation should be performed with the patient lying on his side so that the blood flows freely from the mouth and nose. The gauze used for packing is soaked in glycerine and iodoform emulsion to prevent it adhering and to render its removal less painful and difficult. It should be changed every second or third day for a fortnight, and then omitted and the nose simply irrigated. For a time granulations are seen in the field of operation and may even become exuberant. If however the operation has been thoroughly performed, as above directed, these will as a rule disappear spontaneously in a few weeks, and in the meantime they seem to cause very little discomfort. The discharge diminishes at once and finally disappears when healing is complete and the headaches as a rule immediately cease. The ultimate results are extremely good. In a few cases haemorrhage is severe but it is always easily controlled by packing with gauze: in a few cases a " black eye" is produced, especially when the orbital plate has been injured. The majority of the cases run an afebrile course, and I have never seen any cerebral trouble result. In cases of purely ethmoidal disease a cure is obtained as a rule after one operation, but if gas be used and the operation be not thoroughly done a second operation may be necessary. Polypi thus removed do not recur, the purulent discharge ceases and a large dry cavity lined by healthy mucous membrane results in the upper part of the nose and all bare bone heals over. Of course when frontal sinus or other trouble is present this must be treated before the discharge from the nose will cease, but even then polypi are in most instances cured by a single operation. Thus, when ethmoidal disease is present, this proceeding forms an indispensable preliminary to operations on both frontal and sphenoidal sinuses. The repeated small nibbling operations commonly recommended for the treatment of this disease may undoubtedly result in success ultimately but there are very considerable objections to the method. It is extremely tedious and dis- couraging to the patient who derives little or no benefit from the earlier