l9 AFFECTIONS OF THE SKULL. of that area. When the general symptoms characteristic of compression are associated with a depressed fracture it will generally be found that some vessel has been torn and that there is, in addition to the depression of the bone, a collection of blood between the latter and the dura mater. The haemorrhage in these cases may be severe and usually occurs from branches of the middle meningeal artery. It may also result from laceration of one of the sinuses of the brain; this condition of intra-cranial haemorrhage will however be better considered separately (see p. 42). 3. Punctured fracture.—Punctured wounds of the skull are those caused by some sharp instrument, such as a bayonet, a sword, etc. The wounds are always compound and the bone is not so comminuted as in the previous case. The inner table of the skull is however more com- pletely broken up and is often extensively fractured as compared with the external. In a punctured fracture—such, for instance, as one caused by a bayonet—there is visible from the outside only the hole in the external table, along the groove of which small fragments of the bone are driven in; the internal table however is usually considerably detached and projects against the dura mater, which it may even perforate, so that its sharp edge projects into the brain itself. It is very important to remember in these punctured fractures that, however insignificant the external wound may appear, there is practically certain to be considerable and serious damage to the internal table, which must be remedied if the patient is to be restored to complete health. In these cases also, the instrument itself is very likely to puncture the dura mater and lead to haemorrhage from the vessels in it or even from the vessels on the surface of the brain. In cases of sword or axe-wounds the essential conditions are the same, except that, instead of a hole in the external table, there is a long cut—the so-called "gutter fracture." The internal table is extensively broken up and depressed. As these fractures are always compound, they are specially liable to be followed by suppuration. Treatment. 1. Of fissure of the skull.—In fissure of the skull very little in the way of active treatment is required. As has been already said, these fissures, unless accompanied by some intra-cranial injury, are only recognised when the fracture is compound, and the treatment is essentially the same as that already described for scalp wounds (see p. 7). The disinfection of the wound should be especially thorough, but, beyond keeping the patient quiet in bed for a few days and seeing to the asepsis of the wound, there is practically nothing necessary. In some cases however these fissures give rise to intra-cranial affections, more especially to intra-cranial haemorrhage or to intra-cranial suppuration, and then appropriate treatment must be adopted. Unless however there be symptoms of compression or of intra-cranial suppuration nothing need be done in the first instance in the way of operation on the bone. Some- times, when the fissures are extensive and numerous and when there is any irregularity about the edges, it may be well to remove a portion of the