THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. 40 brain cells, may result without there being necessarily any actual lesion The amount of cerebro-spinal fluid present in the skull at the time of the injury apparently should have a considerable determining effect on the lesions that occur. According to Bouchard, if a blow be received during inspiration, when the brain is more or less completely surrounded by cerebro-spinal fluid, the condition of concussion would be produced, whereas if it were received during expiration, when there is less cerebro-spinal fluid in the cranial cavity, the protection of the water-bed would be diminished and the more serious condition of contusion would result. Symptoms.—The symptoms resulting from this disturbance of the brain vary in degree from drowsiness to complete unconsciousness. In bad cases the respiration is very faint, the pulse is hard to feel and often unduly slow, and there are noises in the head, disturbances of vision, etc. The stage of concussion however does not last long. In the course of a time varying from a few minutes to three or 'four hours the pulse improves in volume, the respirations become deeper, the reflexes return and the patient begins to recover. Generally during recovery the patient vomits and may wander a little. In severe cases there is complete prostration; the surface of the body is cold, the breathing is shallow and quick, the pulse very feeble and there is frequent vomiting. Recovery in these cases is often accompanied by symptoms of cerebral congestion. Treatment.—In the treatment of a patient in a state of concussion two things must be borne in mind. In the first place measures must be taken to get rid of the shock, while in the second place, great care must be taken to avoid bringing about too much reaction lest haemorrhage should occur. The patient should be placed in the recumbent position, with a very small pillow beneath the head, which must not be too much depressed on account of the risk of increasing any haemorrhage that may have begun. Warmth should be applied to the feet and limbs by means of hot blankets and hot-water bottles. Strychnine (gr. ^th) may be administered sub- cutaneously and also camphor, and in bad cases it may be advisable to put the patient into a warm bath. The administration of alcoholic stimulants, or of ether should be avoided in all but desperate cases, on account of the great risk of increasing the reaction and bringing about internal haemorrhage. The patient should be placed in a room free from noises and bystanders and a brisk purge should be administered while he is still unconscious (five grains of calomel placed on the back of the tongue or one or two drops of croton oil on sugar). In most cases of concussion there is retention of urine, especially during the stage of recovery, and this must be remembered and the urine drawn off with a soft catheter. Most cases of concussion will recover under this treatment; if recovery is possible, they will even recover without any special treatment at all. When reaction begins to set in, it is well to cut the hair close and to apply cold to the head with the view of arresting any haemorrhage. The patient should be kept in a dark room, should not be allowed to see