298 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. associated with a feeling of irritation or stiffness; occasionally he complains of obstruction, and frequently there are repeated slight attacks of epistaxis. On looking into the nose, the dust or other irritant is seen on the anterior part of the cartilaginous septum, on the anterior end of the middle turbinate and occasionally on other parts. Enlarged venules and occasionally small haemorrhages may be found on the septum. The mucous membrane seems to be eroded in spots, and in the older cases the cartilage is exposed, or there may be a small circular perforation of the septum. In the more severe forms, such as are found amongst workers using bichromate of potash, the disease commences as an ordinary acute rhinitis, but the discharge rapidly becomes purulent and blood-stained. The mucous membrane covering the anterior part of the septum ulcerates or sloughs, and the cartilages become necrosed; severe epistaxis is frequent, and pieces of sloughing mucous membrane or necrosed cartilages may be found in the discharge. The bony septum is very rarely attacked, but small ulcers may appear on the inferior turbinates. Arsenic may cause a similar affection, which is met with amongst the makers of wallpapers and artificial flowers, and, it is said, may even occur in people who inhabit rooms furnished with arsenical papers. Mercury, and especially the perchloride of mercury, may apparently act in the same way. In all these instances the poison simply acts as a local irritant and does not produce its effects constitutionally. The stream of air as it enters the nose impinges upon the anterior part of the septum and thus the dust or other irritants accumulate here and produce their effects. Treatment.—In the milder cases of this affection the treatment con- sists in washing the nose regularly with a simple alkaline lotion, such as DobelPs solution (see p. 282), and spraying into it an oily solution, or the latter may be applied to the anterior part of the cartilaginous septum by means of a small camel's hair brush. For this purpose olive or almond oil containing one part in twenty of eucalyptus oil may be used. In the severer forms the patient must be at once removed from the noxious influence, and treated on lines similar to those for the milder cases, when he will quickly recover, but more or less extensive permanent damage may have resulted. FIBRINOUS OR CROUPOUS RHINITIS.—Until quite recently this affection was looked upon as simply a severe form of ordinary rhinitis, but it is now known to be a mild variety of nasal diphtheria. The disease is not uncommon, is found almost entirely amongst children, and is most prevalent in the autumn months. The nasal discharge and the membrane contain numerous Klebs-Loffler bacilli; sometimes the latter are apparently in pure culture but in most cases staphylococci and streptococci are also present. Further, the bacilli are of full virulence. The disease differs from true nasal diphtheria in that the local necrosis is much less deep, and as a result it is possible that the toxins which are produced by the bacilli are not absorbed, or that absorption takes place so slowly that