24 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. clot has been turned out, and the further steps necessary to arrest the bleed- ing are identical. They will be found fully described in the chapter dealing with intra-cranial haemorrhage, to which they more properly belong. (See Chap. III.) The replacement of the bone.—After having arrested the bleeding, the surgeon next has to see to the closure of the wound, in which the chief question of importance is whether the portions of bone removed should be replaced or not. That these fragments will unite and fill up the gap in the skull is amply proved, and apparently union occurs equally well whether the circle removed by the trephine be replaced entire or whether it be first broken up into smaller fragments. It is perhaps better on the whole in these cases to break up the fragments into smaller pieces, but they should not be cut up too small. In cases of meningeal haemorrhage, however, if the bleeding has gone on for any time, the brain may not imme- diately expand, and unless it does so the bone, of course, will not have a proper substratum to rest upon. Hence the question of the replacement of the bone will depend upon the expansion of the brain; if the dura mater bulges into the opening in the skull, the portions of bone should be replaced. The replacement of the bone is even more important when the dura mater has been lacerated and cannot be closed, because the replaced bone would form an obstacle to protrusion of the brain. In these cases, however, the cerebral cortex is apt to become adherent to the torn edge of the dura mater or to the bone itself, and these adhesions are known to be a potent cause of epilepsy or even of certain forms of insanity. With the object of avoiding such a complication, various substances have been placed between the brain and the skull. Oiled silk, Lister's protective and other materials have been used. The best seems to be thin gold-foil, which is placed over the surface of the brain beneath the dura mater and extending beyond the torn edges of the latter for a quarter of an inch or more; this does not seem to cause any trouble, while it effectually prevents adhesions. The bone is not replaced when gold-foil is used. The flap may be stitched down with a continuous suture and in most cases it is not necessary to put in a drain. Should oozing be still going on from the cut surfaces of the bones however, it will be advisable to put a drainage tube beneath the flap for 24 hours. As a rule however it is better not to use a drain unless there be a risk of so much bleeding as would reproduce the symptoms of compression. After-treatment.—The patient should be kept in bed in a dark room, and noise and disturbance of all kinds should be avoided. The bowels should be freely opened by means of a purge (calomel, grs. iv.-vii.), stimulants should be avoided and a liquid diet maintained for a few days. If no drainage tube has been inserted, the dressing need not be changed for about ten days, otherwise the tube should be removed at the end of 24 hours.