286 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. must be cleansed, and this is best done by means of a non-irritating solution, such as that of common salt, one drachm to the pint of warm water, to which a little sanitas or permanganate of potash should be added. In cases in which a purulent discharge is present, especially if in the form of adherent crusts, a most efficacious means of removing it is by the application of a 2o°/0 solution of hydrogen peroxide. This drug must be procured absolutely fresh and applied by means of cotton wool pledgets. It rapidly loosens crusts, even the large masses found in ozaena, and is an excellent non-irritating antiseptic. Further, the drug is very useful as a haemostatic. Septic troubles after operations on the nose are almost unknown, probably on account of the free drainage which is obtained. Of course all the usual precautions must be taken to avoid introducing infection from without by means of the instruments, hands, etc., as in operations elsewhere. ARREST OF HAEMORRHAGE. Bleeding in the nose is always somewhat profuse, but in most cases it is sufficient to let the patient lie down quietly, bidding him avoid all efforts at sneezing, coughing and straining, and to apply cold to the face by means of iced water, or by pieces of lint wrung out of iced water in order to arrest it. The patient must also be given cold food, and in the intervals may be encouraged to suck ice; in more serious cases a small piece of ice may also occasionally be introduced into the nose. In the more severe cases it is necessary to pack the nose. If the bleeding spot be known, it is best to apply direct pressure by packing the cavity tightly with a strip of gauze. If the bleeding spot be on the anterior part of the septum it is quite sufficient to introduce a plug of gauze or cotton wool into the affected nostril and then to tightly compress the nose with the finger and thumb, or, when the necessary apparatus is at hand, the blood may be sponged away and the haemorrhage arrested by sealing the bleeding vessel with the electric cautery. If the upper part of the nose, the ethmoidal region, be the source of the haemorrhage, it is better always to apply packing. This is most effectually done by passing the finger through the mouth up into the post-nasal • space, and then introducing a long strip of gauze by means of forceps and tightly packing the nose from behind forwards, the finger in the post-nasal space pre- venting any gauze escaping through the posterior choana. The disadvantage of this method is that the removal of the gauze is liable to set up fresh haemorrhage. For this reason it should be very gently and slowly removed, the nose being frequently douched so as to wash rather than pull it away. Should the haemorrhage be very profuse and not readily controllable by these means, a Cooper Rose's bag should be used. This is simply a soft rubber bag which is introduced into the nose and then inflated, and it will be found a most effective means of arresting haemorrhage.