HARE-LI I'. ■gut stitch is now put in from the point d to the point c, and tied. A similar stitch is put in above to unite the margin at the nostril and bring the ala of the nose into position. A third deep suture between these two will allow a few horsehair stitches to unite the wound completely. The flap, consisting of the red line of the lip on the outer side of the cleft must now be fitted to the raw surface left on the mesial side of the •cleft; it must be fashioned so that the red line fits accurately. Fine horsehair stitches are used for the cutaneous, and catgut stitches for the mucous, surface. If the incision parallel with the red line on the vertical side of the cleft be carried far enough, no angular deformity will be left, and the contraction during healing, although it may slightly draw up the lip, will not produce any marked notch. If the nostril be unduly small after the stitches are put in, it is well to put a small drainage tube in it so as to leave breathing space; fatal cases are recorded from the valve- like action of the upper lip combined with the blocking of the nostrils by clot obstructing the breathing. In time the nostrils will become quite patent. ABC Fig. 6i.—Modified Mirault's Operation. The flaps are left undetached on both sides of the cleft, and, after the gap has been closed, they are so cut down as to leave a downward projection on the free line of the hp (C) which the contraction of the cicatrix subsequently obliterates. This operation is often spoken of as Malgaigne's. As soon as the bleeding has stopped, the line of incision is painted with collodion and the following method, introduced by Lord Lister, is of value as a support to the wound. A double thickness of gauze is cut in the shape of a bat's wing, one broad surface lying over each cheek and the narrow intervening portion passing across the lip. One end of this dressing is then fastened to the cheek with collodion, and, when it is dry, the two cheeks are pushed forward and held in this position while the other end is fixed with collodion to the other cheek and held in position until it is quite dry ; in this way all tension is avoided. After-treatment.—The stitches can usually be removed at the end of a week; in fact, the horsehair and catgut sutures may be removed in two or three days, the deeper silkworm-gut stitches being left for a week. After the operation the child should be entirely fed by the spoon with very great care to prevent injury to the line of incision; the point of the spoon should be introduced at the side opposite to that operated on. After the wound has healed, the patient may be put on the bottle.