204 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS. anaesthetic may be necessary at first. The passive motions should consist of opening and shutting the mouth, lateral and antero-posterior movements, and should be carried out at first daily and subsequently twice a day for a very considerable time. The chin bandage may be of elastic material and after a few days it need only be worn at night. It should be so arranged that the chin is kept pulled backwards as well as upwards. The result is very satisfactory, especially when both condyles have been excised. In the unilateral condition, the jaw is shorter on one side than on the other and there may be some inequality in the movement of the two sides. INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE TEMPORO-MAXILLARY JOINT. This articulation may be the seat of various inflammatory conditions which cause considerable trouble from interference with mastication and articulation. Among them may be mentioned acute rheumatism; gonor- rhoeal rheumatism, which is fairly frequently met with ; suppurative arthritis, resulting from a wound of the joint, from some septic focus in the immediate neighbourhood or as a part of a general pysemic con- dition ; osteo-arthritis, and sometimes, though very rarely, tuberculous disease. Treatment.—The treatment of these conditions differs in no essential respect from the treatment of the affections in other joints, but the import- ant fact must be borne in mind that the stiffness which is prone to result from any inflammatory affection of the articulation may cause very con- siderable trouble to the patient subsequently from anchylosis of the jaw and consequent inability to separate the teeth. This is especially apt to occur after an arthritis of rheumatic or gonorrhoeal origin. In treating these cases, therefore, this point should never be lost sight of, and, as soon as the disease has passed off, movements of the jaw should be begun, and if necessary adhesions should be broken down under an anaesthetic, the administration of which, however, in cases of closed jaw requires the very greatest care. When there is a great tendency to further contraction or much spasm, the best plan is to employ some form of gag to keep the teeth apart. This may be either a conical boxwood gag or some flat gag provided with a screw arrangement so as to gradually increase the separa- tion between the teeth (see Fig. 75). ANCHYLOSIS OF THE JAW. The conditions just mentioned may give rise to anchylosis of the jaw. After any inflammatory affection of the temporo-maxillary joint adhesions are very prone to form, more especially in connection with the fibro- cartilage, and as a result it becomes impossible to depress the lower jaw. The affection may be unilateral, but is most commonly bilateral. Closure of the jaws may also result from cicatricial contraction of the soft parts in