THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. 266 tion may sometimes be restored. High up under the concavity of the inferior turbinate is the lower opening of the lachrymal duct (see Fig. 98). The middle meatus, lying between the inferior and middle turbinates, receives at its upper part the openings of the anterior set of accessory Fig. 89.—Vertical Anteroposterior Section of the Head passing through the Right Nasai. Fossa immediately to the Outer Side of the Septum. a. Lower jaw ; b. hard palate; c. inferior meatus; d inferior turbinate; e. middle meatus; f. middle turbinate: superior turbinate ; //. superior meatus; frontal sinus; k. posterior ethmoidal cell ; /. fourth or highest meatus ; >«. sphenoidal sinus ; «. body of the sphenoid ; o. Eustachian tube. sinuses, namely, the antrum, the frontal sinus, and the anterior and middle ethmoidal cells (see Figs. 90 and 91). On the outer wall of the nose, arising in front from the anterior portion of the lateral mass of the ethmoid in close proximity to the upper part of the anterior border of the middle turbinate, is a long shelf-like process—the uncinate process-—which passes downwards and backwards parallel to the bulla ethmoidalis, and ends just below the ostium maxillare (see Fig. 90). It is broadest in front and gradually tapers posteriorly. The external surface looks outwards, upwards, and backwards, and forms the lower boundary of the hiatus semilunaris; the upper boundary of this hiatus is formed by a rounded prominence caused by a projection of one or more of the larger middle ethmoidal cells, and is known as the bulla ethmoidalis. Into this long narrow cleft open the infundibulum, the duct leading from the frontal sinus, in front, the ostium maxillare at the posterior end, and the ostia of some of the middle ethmoidal cells, usually near the anterior end. Thus, pus coming down from the frontal sinus or ethmoidal cells is guided by the shelf-like uncinate process towards the opening of the maxillary antrum, into which it is extremely liable to find its way. It will also be seen that these structures.