2l6 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS. along with the mucous membrane, after the jaw has been excised and without any subsequent recurrence in that situation. When the eyeball is pushed forwards or inwards, or both, the chances of success are ex- tremely slight and as a rule it is not advisable to interfere; the tumour is evidently growing in the sphenomaxillary fossa and probably affects the sphenoidal cells and the periosteum of the skull. Hence, not only would the operation be very extensive, but the chances of removing the disease entirely would be extremely slight. The cases which are suitable for operation are those in which the tumour is growing either in the antrum or on one of the surfaces of the bone, and has not yet extended up into the cells at the base of the skull. Mere elevation of the eyeball is no contra-indication to operation, and when the tumour starts in the malar bone or in front of the jaw operation is justifiable, even when the growth is very extensive. As a rule the operation involves removal of the upper jaw, but, according to the situation and extent of the tumour, its steps may often be modified so as to get rid of some of its drawbacks. The complete excision of the upper jaw has two great disadvantages: in the first place, as a result of the removal of the orbital plate of the superior maxilla, the eyeball loses the greater part of its support and tends to drop, so that, as the scar contracts, the eye looks downwards and becomes not only useless but a source of great discomfort to the patient; the second great disadvantage consists in the removal of the hard palate and the consequent establishment of a free communication between the mouth and the cavity previously occupied by the superior maxilla. Of these troubles, the most unfortunate is the dropping of the eyeball, and in cases where the entire floor of the orbit has to be removed we believe that it is better to enucleate the eye at once. These troubles may in some cases be avoided in planning the operation; for example, when the disease is clearly limited to the lower part of the upper jaw, the orbital plate may, in the first instance at any rate, be left intact, and the support of the eye thus remains unaffected. On the other hand,- when the disease is situated mainly in the upper part of the bone and there is no thinning or bulging downwards of the hard palate, and no reason to suppose that it is infiltrated, it may be possible to peel off the muco-periosteum of the hard palate, and to unite this periosteal flap with the cheek after taking away the bone and thus to shut off the cavity of the nose from that of the mouth. It is only very rarely advisable to leave the actual bony palate with the alveolar border, but if the soft structures of the hard palate can be left it is a great comfort to the patient. In some cases the skin is so thinned or adherent to the tumour that portions of the cheek have to be taken away, and under these circumstances the question of a plastic operation to fill up the gap arises. It will be most convenient if we now consider the operation for