CHAPTER XI. TRIGEMINAL NEURALGIA. Neuralgia of one or more of the branches of the fifth nerve is not infre- quent. Any branch may be the seat of the disease, and sometimes all three of the main trunks are affected. The pain is generally intermittent and accompanied by spasmodic contractions of the facial muscles—the condition known as "spasmodic tic." In other cases the pain is practically constant and so severe that the patient's life is a misery, and the condition may end in insanity. In the primary or idiopathic cases the affection is a true neuritis, spreading from the terminal branches to the main trunks and being marked in the more severe cases by degenerative changes in the Gasserian ganglion itself. In the secondary cases one of the most common causes is dental caries, and it is worthy of note that the neuralgia may not be referred to the particular tooth that is the seat of the caries. The nerve may also be pressed upon by a cicatrix, a foreign body, callus or a tumour, and sometimes the affection may result from a simple osteitis. Intra-nasal conditions have also been said to originate the affection. More rarely it may depend upon a carious condition of the petrous portion of the temporal bone or the presence of an intra-cranial tumour. Treatment.—The treatment differs according as the case is primary or secondary. In the secondary cases it is generally sufficient, in the earlier stages at any rate, to remove the cause; the affection then subsides and the patient gets well. Should the cause be inaccessible, as it is in disease of the petrous bone, the case will of course be hopeless. When no exciting' cause can be discovered and the case is a simple neuritis, the treatment for that condition must first be adopted (see Part II., p. 259). The face should be wrapped up and kept from exposure to cold or draughts, while quinine in five-grain doses four times a day or arsenic in doses of from three to five minims, cautiously increased up to twelve or more, should be administered. Antipyrine in ten to twenty-