105 M( >LES. and moistened with salt solution. A lens is usually of advantage and none is more efficient than an ordinary watchmaker's glass. "The patient should be in a semi-recumbent position on a couch in a good light. The positive electrode may be laid on a piece of mackintosh on the patient's lap, so that she may grasp it when required. Five cells are then put in circuit and, while the indifferent electrode is lying loose on the patient's lap, the needle, attached to the negative pole, is introduced into the neck of the follicle. The direction of the needle should be parallel to that of the hair. In this position, with no current flowing the sense of touch will inform one, after a little experience, whether the needle is entering the follicle or attempting to pierce the skin. The patient is then instructed to firmly grasp the positive electrode and the strength of current as indicated by the galvanometer noted. For the first trial, a strength of about one milliampere is sufficient. After a few seconds, bubbles of hydrogen will be seen issuing from the mouth of the follicle and shortly afterwards a somewhat yellowish transparent zone will appear around the mouth of the follicle. This is the zone of total necrosis; immediately it appears the patient must be instructed to drop the positive electrode. This yellowish zone should never be allowed to gain a diameter larger than that of a small pin's head, otherwise the scar left will be manifest to the naked eye. The needle is now withdrawn and after a moment or two the hair may be pulled very gently with epilation forceps. If the operation has been successful, the hair will slide out of the follicle without offering the slightest resistance and will bring with it the macerated and gelatinous-looking inner root-sheath. If the hair is not loosened, the current must be increased for other hairs, but it must never pass four milliamperes for even the stoutest. A medium strength for the chin is about 2J milliamperes while will usually suffice for the 'upper lip. As regards the time during which the current should be pass- ing, from 5 to 15 seconds will generally suffice. On no account must hairs be taken during one sitting which are so close that their respective zones of necrosis must touch. " It is better never to introduce the electrode for a second time into a follicle when the first application has failed to loosen the hair. The needle is sure to run down the false passage made on the first introduction and it is practically certain to leave a visible scar. The number of hairs which may be taken on one occasion naturally varies with the coarseness and distribution of the hairs ; one may however take 40 as an average number. " After the operation is finished the patient may be given some lead or calamine lotion to cool the part, but nothing will hasten the healing of the damaged areas. The natural sequence of the after effects is as follows : Immediately on the completion of the operation the part is some- what red and shiny to the eye and hard to the touch, while there are numerous little yellowish dots indicating the mouths of the follicles. The oedema passes off in one or two hours and the yellow dots dry up into scabs within the first