6 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. SCALP WOUNDS. Wounds of the scalp may be punctured, incised or contused, and may vary from a small abrasion or incision to detachment of the greater part of the scalp. A point common to all scalp wounds, and especially notice- able in the severer forms, is their great liability to sepsis, which is partly accounted for by the facts that micro organisms are very numerous upon the scalp, and that hair and scurf are generally driven into the wound, and partly by the fact that the wound is frequently produced by some dirty instrument and is usually more or less contused. Hence, there is a great risk of suppuration in all these cases, and this should be carefully borne in mind because suppuration beneath the scalp is a very serious complica- tion, for not only may the pus extend far and wide beneath the aponeurosis, but there is also a great risk of thrombosis extending to the veins of the diploe and subsequently to the sinuses of the skull; moreover, even without any thrombosis, the affection may extend to the interior of the cranium and produce a suppurative lepto-meningitis. Hence, great pains must be taken in the disinfection. From the point of view of treatment, scalp wounds may be divided into three degrees of severity : i. those in which the wound is only through the skin ; 2. those in which the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis muscle is divided and the pericranium or the cranial bones laid bare; and 3. those in which there is detachment of considerable portions of the scalp. In the first two cases the wounds may be either incised, contused or punctured; in the third they are almost always more or less contused. Treatment.— In all cases of scalp wound there are three points of , primary importance: 1. the arrest of the haemorrhage; 2. the disinfection, of the wound; and 3. the union of the cut edges. 1. When the wound is only through the skin.—The treatment here is quite simple. The hair in the immediate vicinity of the wound is clipped away, the scalp shaved for about half an inch around it, vigorously scrubbed, and the cyanide of mercury and zinc paste already alluded to (see p. 5) rubbed into the hair around. The wound itself should be scrubbed with strong mixture (see Part I., p. 46) and afterwards washed with 1-2000 sublimate solution. In these superficial wounds the bleeding as a rule stops spontaneously. In some cases, however, it may go on from one end of the wound as the result of incomplete division of a vessel, and under such circumstances a slight extension of the incision will cut the vessel completely across and permit of its retraction and the consequent cessation of the haemorrhage. If there be any separation of the edges of the wound, one or two stitches, preferably of silkworm gut,- should be inserted so as to bring them together. When the wound is small, a drainage tube is not usually necessary as the disinfection is generally satisfactory. An antiseptic dressing should be applied for the first 24 hours at any rate.