148 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. then be turned back and sutured back in position again. The raw surface due to the raising of the superficial flap can be closed by sutures in the manner already described. When the superficial flap is applied immediately after the deep one and good union occurs, the base of the deeper flap may be divided in about a fortnight; when the operation is done in two stages, it is well to wait fbr three or four weeks. When the base is divided, the posterior part of the aperture must be again pared and the cut edge of the flap stitched into it. 2. A small defect with plenty of skin, but closure of the jaws.— Here the chief trouble is the closure of the jaws. It is best to divide the reparative procedures into two stages, opening the jaws at the first and closing the aperture three or four weeks later. A good example of A B Fig. 49.—Gussenhauer's Plastic Operation on the Mouth. In A the quadri- lateral flap is raised, and the dotted lines indicate the incisions for splitting the cheek back to the masseter. When this is done, the flap is turned into the mouth and sutured to the mucous membrane as in B. In C the flap has been divided along the line aa, and turned forwards and sutured to the margins of the gap. The incision be is for the flap which is to be superimposed on the outer raw surface of the one sutured into the defect. The raw surface left where the latter is raised from is skin-grafted. the method is given by Gussenbauer. In his case, the mucous mem- brane had been destroyed by a mercurial stomatitis and there was marked contraction of the jaws; the skin however was abundant. A portion of the skin about an inch broad in front and somewhat more behind (see Fig. 49) is marked out by two incisions extending from the margin of the mouth to the masseteric region. The flap of skin and fat is dissected up with the base of the flap posteriorly over the masseter, the cicatricial tissue is divided from the margin of the mouth to the internal pterygoid muscle, and the mouth forced open. Any cicatricial tissue over the internal pterygoid muscle should also be divided and any bands which prevent the opening of the mouth cut across. The skin-flap is turned into the gap thus made and stitched with catgut to the mucous membrane over the inner surface of the pterygoid muscle, and applied closely to the new angle of the mouth. A good way of keeping the flap applied to the raw surface is to pass the suture from the cheek in front of the