368 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FAR are stronger and take up less room. The internal surface should be blackened so as to diminish the reflection of light. To introduce the speculum, the auricle is taken between the surgeon's third and fourth fingers (the left hand being employed for the right ear, and vice versa), and is drawn a little upwards, backwards and outwards so as to straighten the cartilaginous portion of the tube. The speculum is warmed and then gently inserted; when in position, it is retained by the thumb and fore" finger of the hand that holds the auricle. The unemployed hand should now be placed upon the patient's chin so as to move the head into an)' required position. For a minute examination of the membrana tympani some surgeons prefer a Brunton's auriscope which gives a greatly magnified view of the parts and is occasionally most helpful. The size and shape of the Fig. 131.—The Membrana Tympani. a, Stapedius tendon ; b, incus; c, Shrapnell's membrane ; d, handle of malleus ; c, short process of malleus ; /, cone of light. external meatus vary considerably in different patients, and therefore ear specula in three or four different sizes are required. In some cases it is quite impossible to obtain a view of more than a portion of the membrane, especially when the lower and anterior walls of the meatus form a con- siderable projection. If, as often happens, particles of wax or debris obstruct the view, these should be removed with forceps or cotton-wool mops on a probe, using great gentleness. If much wax or secretion be present it is necessary to syringe the ear. The tympanic membrane.—The drum is normally greyish, bluish or slightly pink in colour and is somewhat bright in lustre but semi-opaque. Near the upper part of its circumference is the projection of the short process of the malleus (see Fig. 131), and passing downwards and backwards from this towards the centre of the drum is the handle of the malleus. Running anteriorly and posteriorly from the short process, towards the periphery of the drum are seen curved folds which divide the membrane into two; the upper and smaller portion is called Shrapnell's membrane.