CHAPTER XII. THE PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE FACE. In performing operations about the face the surgeon often has to remove extensive portions of the skin or even of the whole thickness of the cheek and, if the gap thus made be not filled up, very serious deformity will result. He may also be called upon to repair defects caused by the loss of tissue from disease or to remedy deformities of congenital origin, e.g. hare-lip, etc. The general principles of plastic surgery have been already referred to (see Part I., P- 177)- The nature of the defect to be remedied varies so much in different cases that it is impossible here to refer in detail to all conditions likely to be met with; we shall therefore limit ourselves to the repair of the deformities in connection with the nose, the eyelids and the mouth. Two classes of cases may have to be dealt with, namely, recent defects made by the surgeon or defects of long standing; the latter may be either congenital or may follow an injury or a disease in which serious contraction occurs during healing. PLASTIC OPERATIONS ON THE FACE IN GENERAL. The choice of methods is often very large; we shall indicate the principal ones first and shall consider later their applicability to individual cases. Thiersch's Skin-grafting.—Immediate skin-grafting (see Part L, p. 50) is of great value where skin alone has been lost—as after the excision of lupus—and we strongly advise that, in all cases where flaps are not avail- able and the loss of substance is not deep, this method should be employed. Some degree of contraction may follow, but probably this will not be enough to cause deformity, and, if it is, it may be remedied subsequently either by division of the cicatrix and skin-grafting or by turning in a flap from the neigh- bourhood. In large old-standing scars with much contraction, skin-grafting is also of great value. For example, in ectropion following extensive lupus or a burn of the face, it may be impossible to obtain sound skin-flaps in the neigh- bourhood and under such circumstances division of the cicatrix along the