SUPPURATION IN ANTRUM AND MASTOID CELLS. 409 operation on both sides, and in most of the cases in which this has been done one or other ear has shown slight improvement. Attempts have been made to shorten the after-treatment by the adapta- tion of Thiersch's method of skin-grafting. About ten days after the original operation the surface of the bone is usually pink and granulating and ready for grafting. The wound behind the ear is re-opened, all bleeding is arrested and then a large graft, some two inches long by one broad, is cut from the arm (see Part I., p. 50). This is carefully manipulated into position so as to completely line the antrum, tympanum and all the uncovered parts of the bone. It is better to use one piece of skin for this purpose, but if necessary a second may be applied. The wound behind the ear is again sewn up and the packing applied through the external auditory meatus. This has to be done with the very greatest care to avoid dis- placing the graft, and in most cases it is advisable to cover the graft with a piece of gold leaf. The meatus should then be lightly but thoroughly packed so as to hold the graft in contact everywhere with the bone, and this packing is best left undisturbed for a week if no discharge be present. It should then be removed by syringing combined with gentle traction with the forceps : if adherent, a piece only should be removed at a time. In this way the plug may not be entirely removed for three or four days, in which case the graft will usually be found to be firmly adherent. Subse- quently the packing may be renewed every three or four days until the entire wound is covered by epithelium. In this way complete healing may often be obtained within five weeks. For the success of this method it is essential that the bony parts at the original operation should be made as smooth as possible, all irregu- larities being carefully removed with a sharp spoon or burr. In some cases also the graft may be quite readily applied at the first operation and thus do away with the necessity for subsequently administering a second anaesthetic and re-opening the mastoid wound. CHRONIC SUPPURATION IN THE MASTOID ANTRUM. In this condition the lining membrane of the antrum is secreting pus, but, the cavity communicating freely with the middle ear, the discharge escapes and gives rise to none of the symptoms of acute mastoid disease. The condition is usually recognised by a process of exclusion. In chronic suppuration in the middle ear, if the membrane and ossicles be removed and the attic curetted and if the parts as far as can be seen appear healthy, it is obvious that if pus continues to form it must come from the antrum. Further a bead of pus is almost constantly present in the posterior and upper part of the tympanum. Sometimes there is bulging of the postero- superior wall of the external auditory meatus. Although the affection is characterised by the absence of symptoms, with the exception of the con- stant discharge, considerable pathological changes may have occurred in