lyo THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. the same operation. When failure occurs it is usually in the soft palate, especially towards the anterior part at its junction with the hard palate. Failure of union of the hard palate is not so common. Preliminary measures.—One of the most important elements of success is the preliminary treatment of the patient. For some time previous to the operation the feeding should be carefully attended to. As much nourishing liquid food as possible should be given, and if necessary iron or other tonics. Young children should be fed with a bottle, the teat of which is fitted with a large palate-shield especially designed for this purpose. Older children should be carefully fed with a spoon. Prior to the operation the teeth must be seen to, any carious stumps removed, and any aphthous or other ulceration about the mouth appropriately treated. It is not at all uncommon to find in these children severe chronic pharyngitis accom- panied by dryness of the membrane and the secretion of quantities of tenacious mucus. This condition, which is dependent to a great extent on the presence of the cleft, cannot be entirely got rid of, but it must be improved as much as possible before the operation, the parts being fre- quently sponged with boracic or carbonate of soda lotion (gr. x. ad Nasal breathing should be encouraged and the general health attended to. If there be any coryza, the operation should be delayed. Adenoids are not uncommon in these cases, and should be removed before the operation, partly because the operation can be more easily done, but mainly because they block the naso-pharynx after the operation, interfere with respiration, and lead to the accumulation of discharge above the palate. The operation.—In performing the operation it is very important to have a good light and skilled assistants. The table should be so arranged that the light falls directly into the patient's mouth, and it is well to have the head fully extended, partly because it is thus possible to see and manipulate better and partly because the blood will then collect in the naso-pharynx and is not so likely to enter the air passages. The thorax may be raised by suitable pillows, or the patient may be brought to the end of the table so that the head projects beyond it. The surgeon will most conveniently sit at the head of the table, and it is well to have the seat at such a height that the patient's head rests upon his lap. The child's arms and legs should be secured, as the patient is apt to come partially out of the anaesthetic during the operation. The question of anasthesia is of great importance in these particular cases, and a skilled anaesthetist is a valuable help to the operator. The anaesthetic should always be chloroform and is best administered by the open method on the corner of a folded towel. This is better than the usual plan of employing Junker's nasal tube, for, if the latter be pushed up the nose, it is apt to injure the mucous membrane and form a focus of future inflammation, while if introduced into the mouth it gets in the way of the operator. Besides, irritating chloroform vapour blown on the line of incision does not tend to promote union. It is therefore best, after having