278 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. The band should be firm, not elastic, and tightened by means of a buckle. If a spectacle frame be used it must be carefully fitted to the surgeon's head and kept entirely for his own use. The chief essentials of a good mirror are that it should be light, have a large opening opposite the eye, and that its focal length should be about twelve inches. The mirror should always be worn over the eye on the same side as the source of the light; it then shades both eyes from the glare. The position of the patient.—The patient should be seated on a firm chair with a narrow seat and a vertical back, so that he is compelled to sit upright. The chair should be strong and well balanced, so that it will not tip backwards. It is well to use an arm-chair, but the arms must be so adapted that the patient can easily turn to one or other side (see Fig. 140). The surgeon may conveniently be seated on an ordinary music- stool, which can be regulated in height, and it will be found most convenient that he should sit, as a rule, a little lower than the patient, so that his eye is about on a level with the patient's mouth. In this country the lamp is usually placed just behind and to the left side of the patient's head, and consequently the frontal mirror must be worn over the right eye of the surgeon. There are many advantages however to be obtained by reversing these positions, as most surgeons use the right hand in oper- ating, and consequently the movement of the hand is apt to interfere with the source of the light if it is on the operator's right hand side. ANTERIOR RHINOSCOPY. Specula.—For anterior rhinoscopy, a nasal speculum is necessary, and of these Thudichum's or Lennox Browne's are the best (see Fig. 101). Thudichum's speculum should be held between the thumb and fore-finger, and then the third and fourth fingers should compress the spring (see Fig. 102). It is thus introduced, when the spring is released and the third and fourth fingers are allowed to rest upon the bridge of the patient's nose. By slightly raising the tip of the nose, a view of the inferior and middle meati can be obtained. In the lower part of the nose the most prominent object is the globular anterior end of the inferior turbinate, and it is normally possible to see some distance down the inferior meatus between this body and the septum. If however the turbinate be unduly large, it is impossible to see into the inferior meatus at all; and in cases in which it is unduly small, or in which the vascular tissue is temporarily collapsed, it may be possible to obtain a view of the posterior choana or posterior wall of the naso-pharynx. By raising the patient's chin and bending the head backwards, the middle meatus and the middle turbinate come into view. The superior turbinate can only be seen from the front in exceptional cases. A better view of the interior of the nose can often be obtained by the aid of cocaine (see p. 284), which causes shrinking of the mucous