SUPPURATION IN ANTRUM AND MASTOID CELLS. 403 auditory meatus at its extreme inner part concealing the posterior and upper part of the drum. When perforation of the antrum occurs into the digastric groove a large, tender, deep-seated swelling occurs under the upper part of the sterno-mastoid. A communication with the middle or posterior fossa may lead to cerebral complications or to pyaemia. The temperature is always raised and the constitutional disturbance severe, especially in the cases in which perforation occurs into the digastric groove or into the cranial fossae. Treatment.—This depends upon whether acute mastoiditis is associated with acute or chronic suppurative otitis, the affection being of much more serious import when chronic ear disease is present. When complicating acute otitis.—The early symptoms of mastoiditis must be energetically treated, but operation is not always necessary. If the symptoms are not severe, leeches should be applied (two or three in children and five in an adult), the ear should be syringed with hot boracic lotion, hot fomentations should be applied and any hindrance to the free escape of discharge from the tympanum should be met by free incisions in the drum. The incision should commence near the lower margin of the drum and be carried quite across it, through Shrapnell's membrane and the tympanic ring and also for a short distance outwards along the postero- superior wall of the meatus, dividing the soft tissues right down to the bone. The case is then treated as for acute suppurative otitis (see p. 384). If the pain be severe, morphia may be given. In most cases this treatment may be safely persevered in for from 24 to 48 hours, unless severe symptoms occur, such as great oedema over the mastoid, the occurrence of fluctuation behind the ear, or signs of cerebral complications. If no improvement is obtained within 24 hours, or if severe symptoms are present or supervene, further operation is imperative. The operation consists in the entire removal of the outer wall of the antrum, thus freely exposing that cavity (see p. 404), and in thoroughly cleansing the parts by syringing with boracic lotion. It is usually found possible to syringe from the meatus into the tympanum and out through the antrum, which ensures a thorough washing of the whole track. The parts should then be dried, a small strip of cyanide gauze soaked in glycerine and iodoform emulsion should be placed in the cavity in the bone, and a similar plug inserted in the external auditory meatus. The wound in the soft parts should be left open, but need not be packed. A cyanide gauze dressing is now applied. By this operation immediate relief to the symptoms is given. The after-treatment consists in renewing the packing, at first every day and subsequently every other day as the discharge lessens. At each dress- ing the ear and the wound should be thoroughly cleansed by syringing. After two or three weeks the discharge has usually entirely ceased, and the bone is covered by pink granulations. The packing may now be gradually omitted and the wound allowed to close about the fourth or fifth week. The prognosis after this operation is extremely good. The wound usually