299 ACUTE INFLAMMATIONS. anti-toxin is formed in the blood in sufficient quantity to counteract their effects. Symptoms.—The child seems to have an ordinary head-cold, but the nasal obstruction on one or both sides is usually complete. The discharge in the early stages is profuse, clear and watery, but later it consists of thick, yellow matter, and is very often blood-stained; occasionally epistaxis- is severe: The discharge is never foetid, and in a few cases it may be very slight. There is more or less excoriation of the anterior nares- and sometimes impetiginous crusts on the upper lip or the face. On examination, the nasal mucous membrane is usually found to be covered with a thin, whitish adherent exudation, which is strictly limited anteriorly to the nasal fossa proper, and never extends into the vestibule. Some- times pieces of thick membrane can be removed as complete casts of the interior of the nose. In a few cases there is a film of exudation in the post-nasal space, and occasionally slight sore throat is complained of. The general symptoms are quite unimportant, and the disease runs a sub-acute or almost chronic course, varying in duration from three to twelve weeks. The prognosis is good; all the cases make a good recovery, and in none have paralytic sequelae been noted. Treatment.—It is most important to recognise the disease as early as- possible and to isolate the patient. It is certain that these patients may be a centre of infection for similar diseases, and may also give rise to- sore throats in others. Whether they ever give rise to an outbreak of true diphtheria is at present uncertain, but in any case there is no doubt that the patients should be isolated. The child as a rule need not be con- fined to bed, but requires a general tonic treatment: plenty of good food, rest, and drugs such as tinct. ferri perchlor., quinine or Easton's syrup should be prescribed. Locally, the nose should be frequently irrigated with a mild antiseptic lotion such as a solution of boracic acid (gr. xv. ad gj), permanganate of potash or sanitas with salt (see footnote, p. 297). Removal of the membrane and insufflations of iodoform, etc., are quite useless. If the vestibule or nostrils be at all excoriated, it is well to apply eucalyptus oil (one part in twenty of almond oil), or dilute nitrate of mer- cury ointment, made soft with almond oil and painted on all round with a small camel's hair brush. The children should not be allowed to return to the society of others until all bacilli have disappeared from the nose— as shown by bacteriological examination.1 On theoretical grounds the diphtheritic anti-toxin should be of service in this affection, but I cannot speak of its value from personal experience: in the single case in which I had an opportunity of trying it, two doses produced no apparent effect. 1 It is often sufficient to smear a little of the secretion on cover-glasses and then to fix and stain it with Loffier's methylene blue solution. The bacilli are commonly numerous and1 easily recognised. In doubtful cases the nose should be swabbed out with a sterilised mop, and a tube of Loffier's serum inoculated. This must be cultivated at a temperature: of 37" C. and examined by cover-glass preparations in 12-24 hours.