THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. should be very gently syringed, or poured into the nose with the nasal irrigator (see p. 283). No attempts should be made to sniff it up, and if it cause irritation its use should not be persisted in. All violent attempts at sneezing or blowing the nose should be prohibited for fear of causing secondary haemorrhage. For the same reason all food for the first 24 hours should be given quite cold, and no hot drinks should be allowed for at least a week. If the operation be performed in the way mentioned, secondary haemorrhage is extremely rare. It is more liable to occur if suprarenal extract has been used, and consequently in such cases, if the patient be not under immediate observation, the nose should be packed for a few days (see p. 286). Should haemorrhage occur, it is best to apply iced lotion to the nose and the patient should lie down quite quietly and suck ice; a few drops of iced lotion may also be allowed to trickle into the nose. Should this not be effectual, the nose should be plugged with strips of dry gauze, and if the posterior end of the inferior turbinate be affected, the post-nasal space must also be plugged either by means of gauze or a Cooper Rose bag. Treatment of cases associated with undue narrowness of the nasal fossa.—In many cases, especially in patients with narrow noses, there is so little room between the bony part of the anterior end of the inferior turbinate and the septum that it is necessary to do more than this, and to remove at least a portion of the bone of the inferior turbinate. As already seen, the nasal fossa is boat-shaped (see p. 265), both the anterior and posterior parts of it being narrower than the centre ; it therefore follows that in many cases the larger middle part of the nose may be opened up and free nasal respiration established by removing the anterior end of the inferior turbinate, and that therefore it is generally unnecessary to remove the whole of that structure. Anterior turbinectomy.—Anterior turbinectomy is thus performed. Either cocaine anaesthesia, gas, or gas and oxygen may be employed, the last being preferable in nervous patients. In any case it is well to apply a solution of suprarenal extract with cocaine (see p. 285) to the nose 15 to 20 minutes before the operation. This not only diminishes the haemorrhage from the operation, but, by producing contraction of the tissues, enables a better view of the part to be obtained. The patient should be seated in a dental chair, and a good light must be thrown into the nose. The operation may be performed with a pair of stout nasal scissors, such as Panza's (see Fig. 111), or with a nasal saw, and completed with the snare or spokeshave. If the scissors be used one blade is passed down the inferior meatus under the inferior turbinate and then about half an inch of the anterior part of the bone is cut through longitudinally (see Fig. 112). In some cases this piece may be entirely detached, but in the majority of cases the attachment of the inferior turbinate to the outer wall of the nose is alone divided. The wire of a strong snare is passed along the slit thus- made and the isthmus of the turbinate snared off (see Fig. 112); instead