THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. 42 due to intra-cranial haemorrhage. When there is no reaction at all, the compression may be due to a depressed fracture (see p. 18), and is usually increased by some intra-cranial haemorrhage. Again, the symptoms of compression may supervene at a later period, and are then probably due to cerebral inflammation and abscess. The diagnosis and appropriate treatment of these conditions are dealt with in Chapter IV. The general symptoms of compression of the brain are profound loss of consciousness, stertorous breathing, slow pulse and unequal pupils, the one on the side of the effusion being usually widely dilated and fixed. If the pressure be not relieved, the patient may remain unconscious for some hours and then gradually die from heart failure. We shall here take com- pression due to intra-cranial haemorrhage. INTRA CRANIAL HEMORRHAGE.—This may be either extra- dural or intra-dural; an intra-dural haemorrhage again may be meningeal, that is to say beneath the dura or into the pia mater, or actually into the substance of the brain. When the haemorrhage occurs rapidly after an injury and in such amount as to give rise to marked compression, it is probably extra-dural and most frequently results from rupture of the middle meningeal artery or one of its branches. The next most frequent cause of compression due to intra-cranial haemorrhage is probably rupture of one of the vessels of the pia mater; another is rupture of one of the large venous sinuses in the brain ; in the latter case the symptoms are more gradual in onset, partly because the bleeding is slower and partly also because this condition is usually associated with fracture and the blood escapes under the scalp. Rupture of the middle meningeal artery.—The middle meningeal artery is the largest branch of the internal maxillary trunk and enters the skull through the foramen spinosum, running upwards in a groove in the greater wing of the sphenoid. About one centimeter above the foramen it divides into an anterior and a posterior branch, of which the anterior is the larger and runs on in a groove across the greater wing of the sphenoid and thence across the anterior inferior angle of the parietal. It is then continued upwards almost parallel with the anterior border of the bone. It sends branches forwards and backwards over the frontal and parietal bones. The posterior branch passes more directly backwards over the squamous portion of the temporal bone and turns upwards -near the posterior inferior angle of the parietal, running just in front of the posterior border of the bone. It extends towards the middle line and its branches run as far back as the lateral sinus. Throughout their whole extent both branches of the artery lie in grooves in the bone, converted into channels by the dura, and are much more adherent to the latter than to the bone. The anterior branch is the one usually torn. The main branches of this vessel are in close relationship with various motor areas of the cortex, and thus haemorrhage from them may cause direct pressure upon these areas and give rise to paralysis, which varies