AKKECTIONS OF THE SKULL. 33 culous ulcer present and sufficient enlargement of the wound. The peri- osteum over the diseased area should not be turned down with the flap, but must be left in situ and removed with the bone; all caseating material or granulation tissue between the scalp and the bone should be carefully dissected away. The whole area of the skull affected should then be cut away, either with a trephine or by any other suitable means, and it is well in the majority of cases to remove the whole thickness of the bone and expose the dura mater. This should be done even though large portions may require removal, as otherwise the risk of extension of the tuberculous disease remains. When the dura mater is healthy it should not be opened. The raw surface left should be carefully cleaned, the bone surfaces touched with undiluted carbolic acid and the wound closed. The dura, if affected, should be cut away, and any commencing disease in the underlying membranes should be removed. The removal of the dura causes a certain risk of hernia cerebri, but, if the wound be aseptic, this can generally be prevented, while the removal of the tuber- culous disease is of paramount importance. The treatment, prophylactic and otherwise, of hernia cerebri will be subsequently described (see p. 71), but when there is no external wound it is well, with the view of obviating the risks of hernia, to turn down an exceptionally large flap of skin so as to carry the line of incision in the skin to a considerable distance from the opening in the bone, so that if the brain does protrude, the hernia will be prevented from increasing to any great extent by the pressure of the flap. When tuberculous disease affects the base of the skull, more especially the mastoid region, the removal of the tuberculous tissue cannot as a rule be so complete. When the disease occurs in the usual situation, namely, in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, it manifests itself as a middle ear affection with discharge from the ear, usually foul and caseous, and with subsequent disease of the antrum and all the consequences which, with their appropriate treatment, will be referred to later. The treatment consists in opening up the antrum and the tympanic cavity freely and removing sufficient bone to give free access to the interior. The tuberculous material is then cleared away with a flushing gouge and any carious bone within reach is freely taken away. A very considerable area of bone may be removed safely if the surgeon bears in mind the anatomical relations of the part, more especially the situation of the lateral sinus and of the facial nerve. In these tuberculous cases the cavity left in the bone should be packed with iodoform gauze, and it is always well to lay the antrum and the tympanic cavity into free communication with the external meatus so that one large cavity is left (see p. 61). pt. v. c