314 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. introduced, or the gauze itself may be moistened with oil or glycerine. For this purpose eucalyptus oil (one part to twenty of almond oil), may be used. If treatment be carried out in this way it is immaterial what lotions are used. In spite of the numerous drugs which are daily being recom- mended, ordinary salt solution is as effectual as anything. Neither does it matter what wool or gauze is used to plug the nose, and the addition to it of various medicaments, such as iodoform, boracic acid, ammonium- chloride of mercury, etc., apparently makes no difference. So long as this treatment is carried out, the secretion as it forms is and will remain fluid, and consequently can easily be washed away by the patient, and the fcetor, which depends upon the decomposition of the secretion, will be entirely prevented. Thus, from the very commence- ment of treatment the patient is freed from the worst symptoms of the disease. This treatment requires to be continued for many weeks, or more often for many months. Then the packing may be tentatively abandoned, and, if the symptoms do not recur, may be entirely left off, but the daily washings can rarely be omitted. In a few cases, especially in the more recent cases in children and in those in whom the nostrils are not very wide, a complete cure may be obtained, but in the majority of cases alleviation alone is possible. In well-marked cases the nose will always remain wide and dry, and there will be a tendency to the return of the symptoms at any time, should the patient be exposed to infection or take cold. But, as a rule, even in those cases in which there is almost complete atrophy of the mucous membrane, the symptoms can be entirely kept in check or limited to a mere dryness of the mucous membrane with the formation of small mucous non-fcetid crusts, by the daily use of an alkaline nose-wash. The various methods of stimulating the mucous membrane, as by the application of irritating ointments or powders, or the use of electrolysis, are probably useless. The last mentioned has been highly extolled, but its value is not yet definitely established. The only treatment of this kind which apparently does good is the rubbing of the mucous membrane—the so-called " Massage "—with pledgets of cotton wool on a probe, and this probably acts by producing a more thorough cleansing of the nose rather than by increasing the nutrition of the mucous membrane. In some cases of atrophic rhinitis the disease is unilateral. In all these cases the septum will be found deflected to the opposite side, or the affected nostril blocked in some other way. If the obstruction be complete, an operation may be undertaken for its removal, care being taken not to make the nostril too wide, or the disease may arise on this side also. But, if one nostril be very wide and the other completely blocked, by clearing the obstructed nostril the widened one may be relieved of part of its double duty and thus its cure assisted. Also should polypi, or great enlargement