PERSISTENT THYRO-GLOSSAL DUCT. 233 Difficulty is met with when the posterior surface of the hyoid bone is reached, in cases where the sinus runs higher, because it is not at all easy to remove the upper part of the tract. In these cases, after having cleared the fistula well up to the hyoid, the skin incision should be prolonged upwards towards the chin and the tongue muscles separated until the fistulous canal is exposed above the bone; the separation is then continued and the entire tract removed. It is well to put in a drainage tube above the hyoid for a few days. (b) Of a cyst.—A cyst is likewise very troublesome to treat. If not removed, it tends to increase in size and may cause not only deformity but interference with the patient's comfort. Tapping is of no use whatever, while the operation of complete extirpation is even more difficult than the removal of the upper part of the fistulous tract described above, on account of the wide lateral extent of the cyst. Nevertheless, if the cyst be a cause of serious annoyance to the patient, it must be removed in a manner similar to that recommended for removal of the duct. ENLARGEMENT OF THE THYRO-HYOID BURSA. Enlargement of the thyro-hyoid bursa is not at all uncommon, and the diagnosis between this condition and a cyst in connection with the thyro- glossal duct is sometimes a matter of considerable difficulty. The distinct limitation of a bursal sac, its central situation and the fact that it bulges below the hyoid bone rather than above it, are points in favour of a bursal swelling. Treatment.—The simplest plan is to dissect out the bursa, and, if that be done, it is a matter of indifference whether the diagnosis has been right or wrong. A vertical incision commencing a little above the upper border of the hyoid bone and carried downwards to the lower end of the cyst will expose its anterior wall, which is then defined laterally by pushing the tissues aside, and the bursa is readily shelled out. INJURIES OF THE LARYNX. FRACTURES OF THE HYOID BONE.—These are extremely rare and generally result from direct violence, such as suicide by hanging or attempts at throttling. In death from hanging, the body of the bone is often broken, whereas in attempts at throttling the fracture usually occurs at the junction of the body with one of the cornua. The injury is generally accompanied by serious symptoms. The pain is great and, if the fracture be compound into the throat, as it frequently is, there may be severe haemorrhage from the mouth; the difficulty in swallowing and speaking may be also very marked. Later on, severe dyspnoea with constant cough and expectoration are very likely to occur from the inflammatory disturbance about the fracture.