238 THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. applies pressure above and below the opening, and the injury to the vessels can be examined and dealt with in the ordinary way. This will usually take the form of ligature above and below the seat of- injury. It is quite likely that it will be necessary to make use of an infusion of saline solution, as the amount of blood lost may be very great. Should this be the case, the infusion should be carried out immediately after the surgeon is satisfied that the compression of the bleeding spot is effectual and before he proceeds any further. The salt solution should be intro- duced through one of the veins of the arm in the usual manner (see Part I., p. 136), and as soon as the cannula has been tied into the vein and the infusion started, its administration should be taken over by an assistant or a nurse, whilst the surgeon busies himself with disinfecting the wound and arranging for the permanent arrest of the bleeding. When the vessels are tied, the condition of the nerves must be investigated and, if any be found divided, they should be sutured if possible. If the base of the epiglottis has been cut across it should be fastened in position by two or three catgut stitches. The soft tissues connecting the hyoid bone and thyroid cartilages should then be sutured as accurately as possible, or, when the incision is higher up, the muscles of the base of the tongue must be united; in most cases a drainage tube will be unnecessary, as the wound is clean-cut. 2. When the air-passages are involved.—The following four points have to be considered:—(1) The arrest of haemorrhage; (2) the prevention of asphyxia; (3) the treatment of the opening into the air-passages; and (4) the measures to be taken for avoiding subsequent complications, par- ticularly cellulitis and broncho-pneumonia. When the patient is first seen the two most urgent points to be attended to are the arrest of hce?norrhage and the prevention of asphyxia. If there be embarrassment of respiration, either from the passage of blood down the air- passages or obstruction to the laryngeal aperture by the tongue, the first thing is to apply firm sponge pressure to the wound so as to arrest the bleeding tem- porarily, and then rapidly to open the trachea. As soon as this is done, the patient's head should be lowered, and the opening in the trachea held wide apart so as to facilitate the escape of blood; this may be further aided by tickling the trachea with a feather. When the clots have been coughed up, the tracheotomy tube should be introduced, and this should be a Hahn's (see Fig. 80) or a Trendelenburg's tube (see Fig. 81), if one be at hand, so as to shut off the air passages and prevent the further escape of blood into them, whilst the surgeon is attending to the wound higher Fig. 80.—Hahn's Cannula. The method of preparing this for use is described on p. 260. The chloroform apparatus shown in Fig. 81 can be attached to this tube also.