373 METHODS OF EXAMINATION AND TREATMENT. the patient naturally seeks advice chiefly because he is unable to hear ■conversation. A large room is generally required: the patient is placed at one end and the examiner taking his stand at various distances, repeats certain words, such as the numbers, in a loud tone, and measures the distance at which the patient can hear and repeat them correctly. It is necessary that the patient should not see the lips of the speaker, and also to remember that some words can be heard normally at longer distances than others. With a little practice it is easy to regulate the loudness of the voice. The hearing should also be tested by means of whispered speech, which is much more likely to be uniform. The tuning-forks.—These are used for the purpose of ascertaining the cause and location of the deafness. The most generally valuable test is Rhine's. If the vibrating tuning-fork be placed in contact with the mastoid process until the sound is no longer heard and is then brought near to Jhe external auditory meatus of the normal ear the sound is again perceived. This is called a positive result or positive Rinne. If, on the other hand, the sound is not again perceived, the result is called negative. In deafness solely due to an affection of the middle-ear or of any part of the conductive apparatus the hearing power by bone conduction is increased and therefore Rhine's test is negative. In many cases of old-standing middle-ear disease there is also some associated affection of the labyrinth, and in old people bone conduction is often diminished; even in these cases however it will be usually found that the hearing power by bone conduction is greater than by air conduction if a tuning-fork of about 512 vs. be used. In cases of unilateral deafness, Weber's test may be employed. It consists in placing a vibrating tuning-fork upon the middle line of the vertex when in cases of pure middle-ear deafness the sound will be louder in the affected ear. The use of a series of tuning-forks, the lowest about 25 vs. and the highest 30,000 vs., also yields valuable information. In internal-ear deafness the higher notes are badly heard or even lost, while considerable hearing power for the lower notes is retained. In middle-ear disease the reverse is the case, the lower notes being badly heard while good hearing power is frequently retained for the higher notes. In doubtful or mixed cases also, this series of tuning-forks may be employed in Rhine's test. If some internal-ear affection be present in a case of middle-ear disease the forks lower in the scale will often give a positive result while with the higher notes a negative result is obtained. If this change occurs at or below a tuning-fork of 512 vs. the case may be considered one of middle-ear disease.