350 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. This method of diagnosis and treatment however is only applicable when there is extensive caries of the anterior wall of the sinus—probably an infrequent complication. In other instances in which sphenoidal sinus suppuration is suspected but in which no caries is detected, it is imperative that the natural opening of the sinus should be brought into view and except in a very few instances this can only be done by removing the posterior half or more of the middle turbinate. This then should be done and a probe passed into the sinus through its ostium and its interior examined as far as possible in order to detect carious bone, polypi, etc. The sinus can now be washed out by means of a suitable cannula, and if no disease of the bony walls can be detected it may be treated simply by daily irrigations for a time. Should these means fail to reduce the discharge, or if after a time a cure has not been effected, the opening should be cautiously enlarged. A hooked probe is first inserted into the sinus and rotated in various directions so as to determine its extent, and then one blade of a suitably shaped Griinwald's forceps (see Fig. 116) is passed into the cavity and bits of the anterior wall cut away. This little operation is best performed under cocaine as it is necessary to thoroughly illumine the parts and to see accurately what is done. After removing the anterior wall, the interior of the cavity can be curetted if necessary and daily washed out until the discharge ceases. By these operations a cure is easily obtained, as the opening shows very little, if any, tendency to close. The operation should be perfectly safe but care must be taken not to use the curette too forcibly as serious accidents have resulted from this pro- cedure. If there be caries of the upper wall the cavernous sinus may be accidentally opened by the curette, and therefore such a possibility must be borne in mind. The sphenoidal sinus may also be opened with a probe-pointed, sickle- shaped knife, but in most cases considerable force is required to cut through the bony wall and the method seems neither so safe nor so con- venient as that above described. The sphenoidal sinus varies very greatly in size and extent, and is rarely symmetrical; consequent4y no attempts should ever be made to perforate it- with a trochar and cannula or with the drill, unless its extent has been previously determined with the probe. It may be noted that a large number of the cases of sphenoidal disease occur in connection with atrophic rhinitis and in consequence the widened nostrils allow a good view of the anterior wall of the affected sinus, and thus the treatment is rendered easier. (d) Of chronic suppuration in the frontal sinus. -The frontal sinuses are cavities with rigid bony walls, varying greatly in size and extent, and having important relations with the brain on the one side and the orbit on the other. In order to cure suppuration within them it is necessary either to obliterate them entirely or to establish a free escape for the dis- charge externally or into the nose. Taking their prominent position into consideration, every endeavour must be made to avoid any operation which