HERNIA CEREBRI. 71 soon subsides and, as healing occurs, the protrusion gradually retracts within the skull. Sometimes, however, the case does not follow this favourable course, for processes may occur which prevent the return of the brain. For example, when the opening in the dura is small, the protruded portion of the brain may be constricted at its base, its circulation interfered with and the cedematous condition of the protruded portion so much increased that it cannot return through the opening. A similar difficulty will also occur when the brain contracts adhesions to the margin of the opening so that, even if the oedema subsides, complete recession of the protruded portion will not take place. Moreover, when an operation has been per- formed for the relief of pressure due to a tumour and the tumour cannot be removed, it is of course obvious that any protrusion following the operation must remain permanent. Treatment.—Bearing in mind the tendency to the occurrence of this condition whenever the dura mater has to be opened, all cerebral opera- tions must be planned so as to avoid or control this/ accident. It is chiefly for this reason that the flap method of exposing the skull before tre- phining was introduced; the line of cicatrix in the soft tissues is thereby removed from the vicinity of the hernia, and this undoubtedly diminishes the risk of primary hernia. For this reason also, the dura is opened by a curved incision with the curve in the opposite direction to that of the flap in the skin (see Fig. 14). Further, the incisions in the dura are sewn up closely with fine catgut; when this is not possible, the gap in the membrane should be bridged with catgut somewhat in the way in which a stocking is darned, so as to provide a barrier to the escape of the brain. Finally, with the view of checking hernia and of preventing adhesions between the brain and the edges of the opening in the dura in these cases, it is well to introduce between latter and the brain a piece of gold-foil or other unirritating thin material larger in area than the opening in the dura, so as to prevent the two coming in contact. In operations carried out in this manner, primary hernia cerebri should not occur, especially where the dressing is so arranged as to form a support during healing; it is still less likely to occur after trephining in which the circle of bone has been replaced. When a hernia has occurred, it is usually sufficient to wait for the sub- sidence of the oedema, keeping up pressure over the orifice in the skull meanwhile ; as a rule the hernia will recede in the course of a few days. Should it not do so, however, the cause is usually too small an opening in the dura mater or adhesion between the latter and brain. Under such circumstances, it is well, after the lapse of four or five days, to turn down the flap again and to enlarge the opening in the dura mater, separating any adhesions between the margin of that opening and the brain so as to allow the protrusion to recede into the cranial cavity. When the opening in the dura has been enlarged, it is well to incorporate with the dressing a plate of sterilised block-tin or other firm material rather larger than the