FRACTURES OF THE NASAL BONES. ducing a narrow, thin spatula into the nose. In others this is impossible, and it is then best to use special forceps (see Fig. 28) by which a good hold is obtained of the cartilage and by means of which it can be forcibly twisted into position. In these cases the deformity of the septum is apt to recur, and it is well therefore to introduce a plug (see Fig. 29) into the nostril encroached upon by the displaced septum and to retain it in position for some days until the septum is found to retain its position. The best plugs are made of vulcanite, and are hollowed out so that the patient can breathe through them. At the anterior ends of the plugs are holes for threads which are fastened on the cheek with strapping. These plugs are better than packing, which is not so efficient and may cause great inconvenience from the obstruction of the nostril. The plugs should be taken out twice a day for cleaning, the nose washed out with weak boracic lotion, and the plugs greased with boracic ointment and replaced. Fig. 28.—Forceps for Straightening the Nasal Septum. Fig. 29.—Nasal Plugs. In comminuted fractures tvith depression, the restoration of the bones is much more difficult, and their retention in position requires a great deal of care. Manipulation externally may first be tried, but it is generally necessary to introduce some instrument into the nostril to push out the bones. It must be remembered that the space between the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone and the septum is very narrow, and, therefore, in order to push out the bones properly a very narrow instrument only can be used; to attempt to do it with ordinary dressing forceps is quite futile. A pair of fine sinus forceps, a curved probe-director, or still better a narrow spatula should be employed. This is introduced into each nostril alternately, and with it the fragments are gradually pushed up into position with the assist- ance of the fingers applied externally. The retention of the fragments in position is however a very difficult matter. It may be done by packing the nostril with cyanide or iodoform gauze in very narrow strips applied with a fine firm probe. The great objections to this method are that the packing is u;ry difficult to apply owing to the narrowness of the nostril, that in a very short time it becomes foul, and therefore must be frequently renewed, and that this removal is very apt to be followed by recurrence of the displacement; in any case it is a cause of great pain to the patient. When, therefore, the fragments will not remain in position of themselves, it is better to use some external appliance, such as a metal band round the forehead, from which two arms project furnished with pads, which can be applied one on each side of the bridge of the nose, and braced together