CHAPTER XXXI. INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE ACCESSORY CAVITIES OF THE NOSE. ACUTE INFLAMMATION AND SUPPURATION. Etiology.—Acute catarrh of the accessory sinuses and air cells of the nose is a frequent accompaniment of acute rhinitis, more especially when the latter is purulent or is the result of a severe specific infection, such as measles, scarlet fever, influenza, etc. In severe cases of ordinary coryza pain and tenderness in the region of an accessory cavity commonly points to an acute infection of it, and this may quite well have occurred, and yet the secretion formed may be entirely removed by natural means if no other pathogenic agent be at work. If, however, in the course of the catarrh, the opening of the sinus into the nose be blocked by inflammatory swelling, acute suppuration results. The acute inflammation alone may cause sufficient oedema of the mucous membrane to completely obstruct the orifice of the cavity, but it is obvious that this is more liable to occur if there be any pre-existing cause of obstruction, such as polypi, hypertrophy of the middle turbinate, etc. Again, severe or repeated attacks of inflam- mation may destroy the ciliated epithelium of the lining mucous membrane, or so weaken its action that it is unable to remove the increased secretion which thus accumulates in the cavity and rapidly becomes purulent. Another, but rarer, cause of acute suppuration is the presence of a foreign body. Thus, bullets or pieces of sharp instruments may lodge in the antrum, frontal sinus or ethmoidal cells; blades of grass, straw, etc., may be inhaled into the nose and work their way into a sinus through its natural opening ; and occasionally maggots or larvae have been found, most often in the frontal sinus. Suppuration in the antrum may result from injury, such as maladroit attempts at tooth extraction, and in any sinus and especially in the frontal sinus from such forms of trauma as kicks, stabs, etc. Finally, in the case of the antrum, acute infection commonly arises in connection with carious teeth, the roots of the molars and bicuspids being