AFFECTIONS OF THE SKULL. 29 fact, the treatment at this stage is that which will be presently described in speaking of the treatment of concussion of the brain (see Chap. III.). Reten- tion of urine is extremely common, and a soft catheter should always be passed soon after the injury. Very frequently these measures are insufficient to check the haemorrhage and the patient suffers from a state of compression due to the intra- cranial bleeding. In many of these cases it is unfortunately impossible to do much for the relief of this compression. In fractures through the anterior fossa, however, operations for the removal of the clot and for the arrest of the bleeding have been successfully performed. The operations have been chiefly successful when the bleeding has come from the middle meningeal artery, and in cases of fracture of the anterior fossa with compression, clearly due to intra-cranial haemorrhage, it is quite justifiable to trephine with the view of clearing out the clot and if possible arresting the bleeding. The best situation for applying the trephine is in the temporal fossa just in front of the ear and just above Reid's base line (see Chap. IV.). This gives good access to the base of the skull and, by lifting up the dura mater, it may be possible to wash out the blood-clot with a gentle stream of boracic lotion or sterilised salt solution 1 or to turn it out with a scoop. If the bleeding comes from the middle meningeal artery that vessel can usually be secured after a little enlargement of the opening in the bone. Bleeding from sinuses however is not uncommon, and, should the blood be found to be of a venous character, the best procedure, after having removed the clot, will be to introduce strips of gauze beneath the dura mater up to the bleeding point so as to exercise pressure on it; the strips are removed at the end of about 24 hours. Avoidance of sepsis.—The third great point is to guard against the occurrence of sepsis as far as possible. This is difficult as, owing to the situation of the fracture, no proper disinfection of the wound in the soft parts or the bone can be carried out; at the same time there is not necessarily as much soiling of the fractured area as there is in a com- pound fracture of the vertex. Hence, if the subsequent entrance of sepsis can be avoided, the patient may escape septic complications. In fractures of the anterior fossa, this can be done by gently washing out the nose with warm boracic lotion so as to prevent blood-clot accumu- lating and undergoing putrefaction. After the irrigation, some sterilised iodoform should be blown well up the nose and, as fresh bleeding will almost certainly occur, the douching should be repeated several times daily for the first few days. No force must be used, or otherwise the fluid may be forced between the edges of the fracture; the object of the douche is not to disinfect anything, but to wash away material which might other- wise undergo decomposition. As a rule the bleeding will stop of itself, but it is well to introduce a little iodoform gauze into the anterior nares; 'This is normal saline solution (.75%) made by adding I drachm of common salt to the pint of water, which is then sterilised and used at about the body temperature.