181 CLEFT PALATE. ■closed palate, which in itself interferes very materially with the fitting of a suitable obturator. These obturators can be made to supply the place both of the hard and the soft palate. They are certainly difficult to fit and to manage, but, when properly fitting, they are better than a faulty operative result. ACQUIRED PERFORATIONS OF THE PALATE—These are due to traumatism or to disease, most commonly to syphilitic affections of the palate either acquired or congenital; in the former case they occur in the tertiary period. They are the result of the formation of gummata and are often accompanied by extensive necrosis of the palate or the vomer ; the destruction of the palate is very rapid and extensive. Treatment.—The treatment of these cases is at first palliative. In the traumatic affections, the frequent use of a mouth-wash of sanitas, chlorate •of potash or boracic acid is indicated until granulation has occurred. If possible, stitches may then be introduced and the aperture closed. In some cases, portions of tissue may be lost and an obturator must be employed. In syphilitic affections, the important point is whether operative interference should ever be practised; in the early stage, while the gumma is forming, the patient should be put on large doses of iodide of potassium, 20-25 grains thrice daily, and inunction of mercury should be vigorously carried out and, in addition, insufflation of calomel and starch powder (1 in 3) should be employed. The disease extends so rapidly that the patient must be brought as quickly as possible under the influence of anti-syphilitic drugs. When necrosis has occurred, any sequestrum present should be removed and no question of ■operative interference should be entertained until the patient has been for some years or at any rate many months free from all syphilitic manifestations. An obturator may in the meantime be obtained, or, as a substitute in the hard palate, the patient very often can pack the aperture with gauze or some suitable dressing material very satisfactorily. Success is not likely to attend operation except when the patient is comparatively young, the aperture small and the parts not extensively cicatricial. Usually the operation must be more in the form of Davies Colley's flap method (see p. 177) than simple paring of the edges and bringing them together, although, in some cases, where the opening is small, the ordinary operation may be successful.