254 THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. however much time may be of importance, should not be flurried in the performance of the operation. A cause of great embarrassment to inexperienced operators is the hcemoi- rhage which may occur in urgent cases, and it is well to remember that, however free it may appear to be, it is almost entirely venous and is due to the great congestion of the veins from the obstruction to respiration. The operator should therefore not stop to attempt to arrest it, for, as soon as the opening into the trachea is made and respiration is freely established, the veins collapse and serious bleeding ceases. If, after the trachea is opened, the bleeding should continue, the operator will then have plenty of time to retract the edges of the wound and clamp the bleeding points. A very good plan in urgent cases is to turn the child over upon the face immediately the trachea has been opened, so that the blood finds its way externally and not into the lungs. After the child has been in this position for some time and respiration has become normal, the haemorrhage is reduced to a minimum, and can be easily stopped by sponge pressure or by clamping one or two small bleeding points. FlG. 87.—Parkkr's Automatic Tracheal Dilator. Another thing that sometimes alarms the young operator is that the child ceases breathing immediately the trachea is opened. In most cases this is due to the fact that the patient takes an abnormally deep breath and fills the lungs directly the opening is made, so that there is no immediate need for breathing. If the child be left alone, natural respiration will commence in a few moments, and there is hardly ever need for artificial respiration. Another point of the greatest practical importance is that the introduction of a tube may not establish free respiration. This may be either because the tube is not in the trachea or, if it be in proper position, because it is blocked by membrane which has been pushed down in front of it. Another possible cause is that the tube is of wrong shape, so that its end impinges against one of the walls of the trachea and thus becomes occluded. The best means of avoiding blocking of the tube by membrane is to hold the lips of the incision widely open for some little time, either by the sharp hooks mentioned above or by introducing some form of dilator, such as Golding Bird's (see Fig. 82) or Parker's (see Fig. 87), and clearing the trachea with a feather, which both mechanically removes membrane and excites coughing, by which it can be expelled. More serious cases are sometimes met with in which the membrane has spread dowti to the bifurcation of the trachea, and is very difficult to remove.