FRACTURE OF THE LOWER JAW. 197 fracture immediately above the mucous membrane of the gum. The furthest teeth should be as far away from the fracture as possible. It is usual to select the third tooth from the fracture on each side. The end of the wire frame is passed between the teeth farthest away from the fracture on each side and the wire is then moulded so as to fit accurately against each tooth; the ends are brought together, twisted, cut short and bent up out of the way so as not to irritate the mucous membrane of the lip. Fig. 74.—Hammond's Wire Splint for Fractures of the Jaw.—The stout wire frame is twisted at a and the ends cut short and turned down out of the way. Fine binding wires, l> and c, are used to secure the two sides of the frame between each tooth, so that the frame forms a series of compartments, each containing a tooth. The stout wire framework thus moulded round the necks of the teeth is further secured by binding the two sides of the splint firmly together with silver wire introduced between each tooth. The splint is thus divided into a series of compartments each of which is occupied by a tooth. While the splint is being applied, the jaw is held firmly with the fractured ends accurately in apposition; when the binding wires have been applied, the splint keeps the fracture in position. It is wise in cases where there are only a few sound teeth on either side of the fracture to apply a jaw bandage for the first four or five days; it may be then discontinued and the consolidation of the fracture will proceed satisfactorily. It is obvious that this splint cannot be used when the jaw is eden- tulous or when the teeth on one side of the fracture are too few or so loose that its application would pull them out of their sockets. For these cases the splint usually known as Gunning's is one of the best. This consists of two troughs of gutta-percha or some suitable composition moulded on a cast of all the teeth in both jaws; the upper half receives the teeth of the upper jaw, the lower half those of the lower jaw. Between the upper and lower halves of the splint there are props separating the two portions so as to leave an interval through which the tube of a feeder can be introduced. The fracture is reduced, the splint is fitted over the alveolar margins of the upper and lower jaws and the latter is kept in position by a firmly applied jaw bandage (vide infra). Semi-solid food, such as bread and milk, custards, rice pudding, etc., may be administered after the first week, when a Hammond's splint is