l86 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. mouth through the orifice of the duct and the other being passed along the proximal end; the two ends of the duct are then brought together, stitched with fine catgut and the external wound united. Under these circumstances the saliva will usually find its way into the mouth along- side the wire. The end of the wire in the mouth should be bent up against the cheek and guarded by a small piece of gauze; it will remain in position readily enough because it is pressed against the gums. The wire may be removed in from 24 to 48 hours, but mastication and talking should be rigorously avoided for four or five days. When, however, the tissues are much bruised and there is danger of sloughing, this plan is not likely to succeed, and a fistula will almost certainly follow. Therefore, when the wound in the duct is in front of the masseter, the incision should be deepened into the mouth either by pushing a trochar and cannula into the buccal cavity and then dilating the canal so formed by forceps, or, better, by deliberately incising the deeper parts, bearing in mind that the branch of the facial nerve which runs along with the duct may have escaped division and should be avoided. All cutting must be done parallel with the duct. After having made a free incision into the mouth, a few strands of horse- hair should be introduced through this opening; one end of this drain should be left lying around the divided portion of the duct while the other is stitched to the mucous membrane of the mouth so as to prevent it slipping out. The external wound is then brought together either by sutures or, if sloughing be anticipated, by gauze and collodion. The object of this plan is to obtain union of the skin over the wound, while leaving a free opening into the mouth for the escape of saliva. When the external wound has healed, the horsehair may be removed, for the pressure of the saliva as it is secreted is sufficient to keep the wound open until a per- manent orifice is formed. SALIVARY FISTULA. This is a permanent communication between one of the salivary ducts and the exterior; in the case of the parotid it occurs directly over the gland when one of the larger ducts of origin has been opened, or in the cheek where Stenson's duct is affected. The condition may arise from a direct wound, from injury during operations, as the result of sloughing or abscess formation or as a sequela of syphilitic or tuberculous mischief. The treatment of a fistula over the gland has already been indicated above: we need therefore only discuss the question of a fistula of Stenson's duct. The fistulous opening may be either over the masseter or further forward on the cheek. The opening is usually small and the amount of discharge varies with the secretion of the saliva. When thoroughly established, the openings connected with Stenson's duct never close spontaneously.