198 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE JAW'S. employed; when a Gunning's splint is used, liquid food must be maintained until the splint is removed, which will be at the end of about three weeks. In neither case should solid food be allowed until four or five weeks have elapsed from the time of the accident. Hammond's splint need not be removed until about the sixth or seventh week, as it lies comfortably around the necks of the teeth and causes no inconvenience. It is easily removed by cutting the main wire in several places with pliers. In both cases a mouth-wash of safrrtas- and- boracic lotion should be used. (2) Fractures situated behind the last molar.—Here the only thing that can be done is to keep the jaw closed and in proper position while the fracture consolidates. This is usually effected by an ordinary jaw bandage which is made as follows. A piece of fairly stout calico bandage, about three feet long, is taken, and in the centre of it a small oval aperture is cut suitable for the reception of the chin. The strip is converted into a four-tailed bandage by splitting up each end to within a couple of inches of the central aperture. The bandage is then applied so that the point of the chin lies in the central orifice. The upper limb of the bandage is carried horizontally backwards and the ends are knotted together beneath the external occipital protuberance. The lower limbs of the bandage are carried vertically upwards and knotted over the vertex in front of the bregma. The ends of the vertical and horizontal limbs of the bandage are then tied together so as to prevent the anterior strips from slipping forward. In some cases a moulded gutta-percha splint is applied to the chin inside the bandage, but as a rule this is a source of annoyance and is of very little advantage. The saliva often dribbles away in these cases and soils the bandage rapidly, so that it requires frequent changing. Before applying the bandage, attempts should be made by manipulation to entangle the broken surfaces so that the bandage simply keeps the parts at rest after they are put into position. In cases where there are no teeth in the posterior part of the jaw a suitable modification of Gunning's splint may sometimes be modelled upon the alveolar margins so as to keep the jaws in position when fixed by the bandage. At the end of three weeks the patient may discontinue the use of the bandage and take soft food. As long as the bandage is being worn, it is important that it should not be taken off for the purpose of feeding. The patient should be kept on a liquid diet, strong beef-tea, soups, milk, etc., administered by means of a feeder to which an indiarubber tube is attached. This can be passed through the space which always exists behind the last molar tooth on the sound side and the patient can thus be fed easily without disturbing the bandage. All solid food requiring mastication should be interdicted until the end of the fifth week when the union is fairly firm. The patient need not be confined to bed. If there be a sufficient interval between the teeth or if a tooth be wanting, a mouth- wash of sanitas or chlorate of potash should be used and it is often very comforting.