CHAPTER IX. FRACTURES OF THE NASAL BONES. CAUSES.—This injury is practically always caused by direct violence; sometimes however it may be the result of an extensive fracture of the anterior fossa of the base of the skull. Fracture occurs more often in adults than in children, in whom the nose is more yielding. The fracture is usually compound through the mucous membrane and is not uncommonly comminuted. The injuries may be very varied ; one bone alone may be broken but usually both are fractured and separated from each other. In other cases the fracture may involve the nasal processes of the superior maxillae. In badly comminuted cases the fracture usually also runs through the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid or the lachrymal. Lastly, the nasal bones may be dislocated from the cartilages, and it is not uncommon for bending or even dislocation of the cartilaginous septum to occur. DISPLACEMENTS.—The resulting deformity is of course greatest in comminuted fracture, in which the bridge of the nose may be so depressed that it is very difficult to restore it to and retain it in position. In many cases the nose is displaced laterally, while in others there is comparatively little displacement. The swelling is often so great as to mask both the displacement and the crepitus. COMPLICATIONS.—These fractures as a rule are unaccompanied by complications, but when there is severe damage the following conditions may be met with :— 1. Epistaxis.—Bleeding from the nose is constant, but is usually only slight. If however one of the larger vessels be ruptured, there may be considerable and persistent haemorrhage, which sometimes necessitates plugging of the nostrils. 2. Emphysema.—Escape of air into the tissues about the orbit or the forehead and bridge of the nose is not uncommon and is due either to injury of the nasal duct or to a free opening through the mucous membrane of the nostril communicating with the cellular tissue. The emphysema is usually developed when the patient attempts to blow his nose. It generally subsides spontaneously and seldom gives rise to any trouble.