432 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LARYNX. unscientific and dangerous. If there be much dyspncea, especial care is required, for, should any of the blood enter the larynx, it may produce spasm and suffocation. A little cocaine should be sprayed into the pharynx and a very little also applied to the laryngeal region. Then, guided by the laryngoscope, two or three small incisions are made into the cedematous parts. It is better to make definite incisions a quarter to half an inch long and a sixth of an inch in depth rather than simple pricks. In order to prevent blood entering the larynx it is advisable whenever possible to make the incisions to its outer side, thus, if the epiglottis be involved, the incisions should be made on its glossal surface and similarly a long incision may be made into either aryteno-epiglottic fold on its outer surface. The blood then tends to flow into the throat or mouth and not into the larynx. After the incisions have been made, hot water should be gargled to increase the bleeding. When this has ceased, the patient should again suck ice. In suitable cases this operation is very successful, but should it fail and dyspncea supervene tracheotomy will be required. Tracheotomy is indicated when dyspncea is severe or increasing in all cases in children; and when the above treatment has failed, it is usually necessary in adults, and should therefore be performed early in all the more acute infections above described. The low operation (see p. 253) should be preferred when the dyspncea is not too urgent to allow it to be deliberately undertaken. The constitutional treatment must also be attended to. In the septic cases perchloride of iron in large doses (30-40 minims every four hours) should be given in adults and may be combined with quinine in one or two grain doses. In children, in whom there is a great tendency to laryngeal spasm, small doses of bromide of potassium may be adminis- tered, if there be not much dyspnoea between the attacks. In all the more severe cases the greatest attention must be paid to the nourishment of the patient; a fluid, very nutritious diet, such as milk and eggs and meat essences, must be given; occasionally brandy in large doses is required to meet the depression. (EDEMA OF THE LARYNX. Besides the above acute cedematous laryngitis, oedema of the larynx may occur in two well-defined conditions. (1) It may be secondary to other diseases of the larynx, such as acute or chronic perichondritis, and is very common in tuberculosis, syphilis, and malignant diseases. The treatment of this form will be described under the various primary conditions. (2) (Edema of the larynx may be simply a local symptom of a general disease, such as renal or cardiac disease, or it may arise from pressure -on the effluent laryngeal vessels at some distance from the larynx as in