AFFECTIONS OF THE MIDDLE EAR. 383 ACUTE OTITIS MEDIA. This disease is the result of infection of the middle ear by micro- organisms which in a very large majority of cases gain access through the Eustachian tubes. Causation.—The infectious fevers, and especially scarlet fever, often give rise to acute otitis of a severe type. Unless great care be taken these cases will go on to suppuration, and may result in grave complica- tions, such as mastoiditis, meningitis, etc. Any septic condition of the throat, such as tonsillitis, secondary syphilis,, etc., and also diseases of the nose, such as acute rhinitis, and post-nasal catarrh, are liable to extend to the Eustachian tubes and middle ear; but in the case of a common cold, the resulting otitis is usually of a much less severe type than that following an acute septic process. In such cases, and in those associated with adenoids, the affection is often limited to a tubal catarrh with simple congestion of the middle ear. Another frequent cause of otitis is the entrance of fluids through the Eustachian tubes. For example, lotions injected into the nose with too much force are very liable to pass into the Eustachian tube and to set up acute otitis. This danger is greater in children, in whom the tubes are abnormally short and patent, and who are very likely to resist the syringing and to cough and splutter, and it is also more liable to occur if the patient should open the tubes by involun- tarily swallowing during syringing. Again, when vomiting occurs in infants, some of the ejected matter is almost certain to pass through the nose, when it may either lodge in the post-nasal space and set up acute inflam- mation, or may actually enter the Eustachian orifices. Lastly, during operations on the nose and throat, blood may enter the tubes, and this probably accounts for the otitis which occasionally follows the removal of adenoid growths, etc. Pathology.—The first effect of an acute inflammation spreading from the post-nasal space along the Eustachian tube is swelling of its lining mucous membrane, which completely obstructs it. The lining membrane of the tympanum is also congested and the drum is indrawn. Soon fluid, at first serous or mucous, is poured out and, the tube being obstructed, accumulates in the tympanic cavity and the drum bulges. As a rule the collection of fluid is limited to a part of the tympanic cavity by adhesions between the drum and the inner wall of the tympanum. In the milder cases resolution may occur at this stage. The swelling diminishes, the Eustachian tube becomes patent, the fluid partly escapes or is absorbed, and complete recovery may ensue, though occasionally the adhesions between the drum and the inner wall of the tympanum may become permanent. In the more severe cases however the fluid in the tympanum becomes purulent. The drum becomes deeply congested, bulges, ulcerates, and ultimately ruptures, and pus and blood escape into the meatus. The patient may now quickly recover, the perforation heal, and the tube again become