THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE EAR. 376 commonly occur in patients who have suffered from old middle-ear disease or from some affection of the external auditory meatus such as eczema. The flakes are extremely adherent and very difficult to wash away. As a rule these accumulations produce deafness only when they fill the meatus, and this commonly occurs suddenly from rapid swelling when a little fluid has been allowed to enter the ear. In a few cases vertigo or tinnitus may be present. Treatment.—When wax is present, the first essential is to remove it, which may be accomplished by syringing the ear immediately or after a previous use of instillations to soften the plug. For this latter purpose glycerine or almond oil, with one part in twenty of carbolic acid, may be used, a few drops being warmed and poured into the ear night and morning. A simple method is to heat a teaspoon, put three or four drops of the oil into it, and then, while the patient lies on the opposite side, to pour the drops from the teaspoon into the ear. After three or four days the wax is usually softened sufficiently to be easily washed away. To syringe the ear, a large brass syringe with a fine nozzle should be used with which the water can be injected with considerable force. The patient should sit opposite a strong light and the meatus should be straightened by drawing the auricle upwards, backwards and slightly outwards. The water or lotion used for syringing should be as hot as the patient can comfortably bear it. The stream should be directed at various angles along both the floor and the upper part of the meatus and continued with occasional intermission for inspection of the ear until all the wax has been removed. Occasionally syringing excites giddi- ness, when it must be stopped and the wax thoroughly softened before it is again gently repeated. After cleansing the ear, it is better to wear cotton- wool for a few hours or at least until the patient reaches home. He should be cautioned always to remove the wool and not allow it to be forgotten and retained in the ear. In oldish people or in those subject to such accumulations, the ears should be examined periodically and if necessary washed out. No attempt should ever be made to remove plugs of wax with the forceps or with the hook. The masses of epithelium (or cholesteatomata) are much more difficult to deal with. As much should be syringed away as possible and then under good illumination the scales should be carefully detached from the walls of the meatus by means of a fine probe or scoop. Small pieces may sometimes be removed with the forceps and then the syringing should be repeated. It may be necessary to repeat this treatment on several occasions and in the intervals the patient should be instructed to syringe the ears two or three times a day. The greatest care must be used to avoid injury of the meatus or of the drum, as these plugs are generally adherent to the latter. In children an anaesthetic is invariably necessary, and even then only a little can be accomplished at one time. With care and patience however the whole mass can be ultimately removed, and then any resulting inflammation must be treated as for otitis externa {vide infra).