307 CHRONIC INFLAMMATIONS. of blood. This is important, not so much because the loss of blood might prove serious, as because it adds greatly to the danger of the anaesthetic. For after-treatment see p. 303. Removal of the whole of the inferior turoitiate. — This operation is very rarely required. In the large majority of cases it is far better to proceed on the lines already indicated, removing the anterior extremity of the turbinate by anterior turbinectomy, and the posterior with the cold wire snare. In this way as much of the inferior turbinate body as possible is preserved intact—a point of no little importance (see p. 303). But in a few cases the whole length of the inferior turbinate is covered by papillo- matous growths which completely fill the inferior meatus, and then nothing short of removal of a portion of its entire length will suffice. This is best accomplished by means of the spokeshave (see Fig. 115). The operation is extremely easy and can be rapidly performed. The great objection to it is that there is no means of accurately regulating the amount of the inferior turbinate that is removed. It is best to give a general anaesthetic, but gas alone, or gas followed by a little ether is usually sufficient. It is best to operate with the patient sitting, but if lying down he must be turned over well on to his side. The surgeon stands on the left side of the patient and passes the spokeshave through the inferior meatus into the post-nasal space, and then, guided by the finger, hooks it on to the posterior end of the inferior turbinate with the convex side of the knife towards the part to be removed. The instrument is now dragged forcibly forwards and a large piece of the inferior turbinate is easily detached and brought away. Both sides of the nose may be operated upon at the same time. Haemor- rhage is usually profuse, and means for rapidly plugging the post-nasal space should always be at hand. A good plan is to retain the finger in the post-nasal space and pass a long strip of gauze back through the inferior meatus so as to tightly plug the whole nose. For other details of after- treatment see p. 303. The results of this operation are on the whole good. Of course it