6o THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. conditions found. When extra-dural suppuration is found, the treatment may in many cases stop after the bone has been freely removed, provided always that the lateral sinus be unaffected. When pus is present in the sigmoid groove, the condition of the sinus must be very carefully investi- gated. As a rule it is possible by palpation to make out whether or not it is thrombosed, but in case of doubt it is quite permissible to puncture it with a needle; if it be healthy, it will bleed freely; if thrombosed, broken- down clot or pus may be found. Great care must naturally be taken to avoid introducing infective material into the interior with the needle, and therefore the wall of the sinus should be touched at the point of puncture with strong sublimate solution (i in 500). Should free venous bleeding result, the sinus need not be further interfered with. On the other hand, should septic thrombosis have occurred, the sinus must be opened up and thoroughly cleansed ; at the same time all connection between it and the lungs must be obliterated. Usually the operative procedures need not go further than this unless a cerebral or cerebellar abscess is quite certainly present. In suspected cases of abscess of the cerebrum or cerebellum it is often found that the symptoms subside after opening up the mastoid antrum and the sigmoid groove, and therefore in indefinite cases it is well to await developments for a day or two. Should symptoms pointing to suppuration either in the sub-dural space or in the brain continue, a further operation should be done. We have thus to consider the following operations in connection with these cases: r. the operation upon the mastoid antrum; 2. the exposure of the lateral sinus and its groove; 3. the methods of dealing with a thrombosed lateral sinus; 4. the steps necessary for opening extra-dural abscesses over the roof of the tympanum; 5. the treatment of sub-dural suppuration, both localised and diffuse; and 6.' the methods of treating cerebral and cerebellar abscess. The methods of treatment appropriate to each of these conditions will be described separately, but it should be clearly borne in mind that in actual practice the surgeon may be called upon to adopt several of them in succession at the same operation. In many cases of middle-ear disease with symptoms apparently pointing to intra-cranial mischief it may be quite impossible to diagnose the actual lesion present, and therefore to undertake the appropriate treatment for it. We shall describe the steps of the pro- cedure that should be carried out in a case of this kind; it will be seen that the surgeon feels his way, as it were, from step to step, and that his further movements are dictated by the conditions found. Of course, when the particular lesion can be accurately diagnosed, the appropriate treatment should be at once adopted. 1. The operation upon the mastoid antrum.—In all cases with a history of long-standing discharge from the ear and symptoms of inflammatory intra-cranial mischief, the treatment must commence with the opening of the mastoid antrum, and that for the following reasons. In the first