262 THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. pointed scissors. Any bleeding vessels must be secured as they are cut; the superior laryngeal artery and nerve will of course be divided. When all bleeding has been stopped,, careful search should be made for enlarged glands, and if any are present, the entire lymphatic area involved is dissected out. The larynx is filled with strips of cyanide gauze which should not be packed tightly enough to cause irritation; the object is to arrest haemorrhage and prevent blood trickling into the lungs. The transverse incisions are then brought together and one or two silk worm-gut stitches are inserted into the vertical one, room being left for the ends of the gauze to emerge. If the neck has been opened for the removal of glands, a drainage tube should be inserted at the most dependent spot. In this operation it is well to insert a fresh Hahn's tube immediately after the operation and to retain it for 24 or 48 hours, after which the ordinary silver tube may be substituted for it. The packing should be changed daily for three or four days, when it may be left out entirely and the skin wound allowed to granulate. The tracheotomy tube may be dis- continued at the end of a week if the case progresses favourably and if there be no marked swelling or oedema about the wound. The feeding after the operation will probably have to be by the rectum for the first three or four days, but if necessary an oesophageal tube may be passed once or twice daily as well and the patient fed by it. In doing this, great care must be taken to pass the tube along the uninjured side of the pharynx so as to avoid irritating the wound. Swallowing is usually possible within less than a week, and when first attempted it is well for the patient to lie with the head hanging over the bed with the sound side downwards, so that the food runs along the healthy side of the pharynx. A good plan is to make the patient swallow a small quantity of boracic lotion before he is allowed to swallow food for the first time, so as to see if it passes in the proper direction. Should it run into the larynx no harm will be done, as it will simply act as an irrigation to the wound. Speech is generally recovered soon after the power of swallowing is restored, and the patient talks in a low, hoarse, monotonous voice, though usually perfectly clearly and distinctly. COMPLETE LARYNGECTOMY.—As a rule, when thyrotomy and internal removal of the growth are not feasible, complete laryngectomy is required if any operation is to be performed at all. This may be done in two ways. On the one hand it may be so planned that, when the patient recovers, an artificial larynx may be introduced between the trachea and the opening into the pharynx; on the other hand, the operation may be made to cut off permanently all connection between the pharynx and the trachea. The mortality after the latter operation is very much less than after the former because, when an artificial larynx is to be subse- quently fitted, the operation must be carried out in such a way that the discharges from the wound and the pharynx very readily run down into