200 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS. enlarging the wound, the direction of the branches of the facial nerve should be borne in mind and also the position of Stenson's duct.1 The incision must therefore be transverse or with a slight obliquity downwards and backwards. After the operation, a jaw bandage should be applied and, if stout silver wire has been used, the patient may begin to move his jaw in the course of three or four days. When the fragment has been removed altogether, active and passive motion may be begun at once. The early movement of the jaw is of great importance because the adhesions which would otherwise form are very difficult to overcome subsequently and might lead to a certain amount of closure of the jaws. (b) Of complications.— The treatment of abscess in connection with the fracture presents nothing special. The abscess should be opened freely and early and properly drained; it is practically always essential to open the abscess from the outside, as otherwise pus is apt to collect at the most dependent part of the cavity and keep up the inflammation, and possibly lead to necrosis. Septicemia is sometimes met with, but it is happily very rare. Its treatment has already been mentioned (see Part I., p. 210). Persistent dental neuralgia is of rare occurrence. It usually subsides immediately the fracture is properly reduced, but it may persist and be very severe as the result of pressure upon the nerve by the callus thrown out as the fracture consolidates. Under such circumstances the nerve must either be divided at the dental foramen or an operation for the removal of callus must be undertaken. In the latter case it is by no means easy to find the nerve and divide or free it, whereas at an early period of dental neuralgia the division of the inferior dental nerve (see p. 128) will stop the trouble. Non-union is fortunately extremely rare; if it occurs, the ordinary treat- ment of ununited fracture must be employed, the edges being refreshed and the bones wired together (see Part III., p. 52). The incision should be made over the lower border of the jaw and the soft parts pulled carefully upwards, taking great care to avoid going through the mucous membrane of the gum in front or above. The fractured surfaces may then be refreshed by a chisel, the lower margin of the bone drilled and a wire passed through it. In doing this the greatest care must be taken to see that the drill-holes on the opposite sides of the fracture correspond, and it is well to be provided with a grooved drill, which may help the passage of the wire. The upper part of the bone may be steadied by a Ham- mond's splint (see p. 196). 1 Stenson's duct crosses the masseter parallel to and about a finger's breadth below the zygoma. The infra-orbital branch of the facial nerve lies just above and almost parallel to the duct, the temporal branch runs up almost vertically in front of the ear, while the malar branch occupies a position intermediate between the two.