38 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. When the exostosis is quite small and can be enclosed in the circle of a trephine, a circle of the bone including the exostosis should be taken out. When however the tumour is large and irregular in shape, the best plan is to remove it by means of a burr, or a saw worked by a dental engine, keep- ing just outside the area of the tumour so as not to have to cut through the very dense bone (see Fig. 9). SARCOMATA—These tumours are rarely removable, but in some cases, when they have originated in the interior of the bone, it may be worth while attempting an operation. Under such circumstances a large flap of skin only, avoiding the deep fascia, must be turned down well beyond the area of the tumour, and by means of a circular saw, or a Gigli's saw (see Fig. 10), the skull is cut through at a distance of about an inch beyond the growth and the whole mass removed with the tumour attached. When the tumour is grow- ing from the diploe or the external table, this operation may be success- ful, and even when the inner table is depressed by the growth it is worth trying, provided that the operation be done before serious pressure on the brain has been caused, and before the dura mater has become involved. When however the skin over the tumour is so thinned or infiltrated that it has to be removed, the operation cannot be performed, because a large gap would be left with the brain exposed and without any likelihood of healing. No doubt in some cases, when the defect is small, it might be possible to fill it by means of a flap from the arm, as in the method of repairing the nose (see " Plastic Surgery of the Face "), but when the tumour has attained such a size as to involve the skin to any considerable extent, its removal is practically hopeless. CARCINOMATA.—Carcinomata found on the skull are of course secondary to carcinomata elsewhere and cannot be dealt with surgically. Fig. 10.—Gigli's Saw. The saw is a finely tem- pered wire with a low screw-thread round it. This is introduced (by a special introducer if necessary) between the dura and the bone between two trephine holes. The handles are then hooked on and the bone is rapidly divided. It is a most useful saw for many purposes, as its fineness enables it to be passed where others will not go. See also Part I I., p. 22.