428 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LARYNX. pachydermia of the larynx, which consists essentially of a hypertrophy of the papillary layers of the mucous membrane, and may lead to the forma- tion of a considerable mass in the inter-arytenoid fold or over the vocal processes entirely preventing approximation of the posterior ends of the cords. These masses constantly coming into forcible contact during phonation may undergo ulceration, which may even extend deeply and give rise to extensive destruction of the cord and even necrosis of the cartilage. Another result of chronic laryngitis is the production of Singers' Nodules or Trachoma of the vocal cords. These are small, rounded, symmetrical growths on the edges of the vocal cords situated almost invariably at the junction of the anterior with the middle third. They occur especially in singers and teachers, and are produced by using the vocal cords when slightly thickened. More rarely a Hcemorrhage may occur on the vocal cord. This takes the form of a small blood cyst, and occurs suddenly as the result of violent use or straining of the voice while the larynx is congested ; it is very persistent. Treatment.—The local treatment must first of all be directed to the condition of the upper air passages and especially to the nose and naso- pharynx. It is especially important to establish free nasal respiration. For the laryngitis, steam inhalations may be used with advantage, the best being the vapor creosoti,1 or the vapor pini sylvestris used as above directed (see p. 421). Where there is a tendency to dryness of the mucous membrane, the vapor cubebae2 may be used. When there is much sticky mucus in the pharynx and larynx, the parts should be cleansed by the application of an alkaline spray (see p. 420) or by Siegel's steam spray producer. In very chronic cases with much thickening of the mucous membrane and paresis of the tensors, the best results are obtained by the application of astringents, which should be applied to the vocal cords with a brush. Chloride of zinc or nitrate of silver (30 grains of each to the ounce) may be applied on alternate days for a fortnight, and subsequently twice a week. The treatment is greatly aided if the patient is able to rest the voice. He may be allowed to whisper, but not to phonate. When all inflammation has subsided and weak tension of the vocal cords alone remains, the Faradic current may be tried, in the first place, externally over the larynx, using a mild current for five to ten minutes !R Creosoti, 111. 80 French chalk, gr. 30 Water, 0%. I A teaspoonful to a pint of hot water for each inhalation. 2 01. cubebce, m. 40 Mag. carb. levis, gr. 20 Water, oz. 1 Used as above. •