i88 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. INFLAMMATION OF THE PAROTID GLAND. Inflammatory conditions of the parotid gland are due to a variety of -causes, such as the too free administration of mercury, impaction of a calculus in the duct, the spread of septic inflammations from the mouth or the more general infection occurring in the course of pyaemia. Inflam- mation of the parotid is also the chief feature in the infective disease known as mumps. When a calculus has become impacted in Stenson's duct, the parotid gland swells and becomes hard, and this swelling and sclerosis may increase considerably. Suppuration seldom occurs; indeed the blocking of the duct is usually incomplete, giving rise only to a certain amount of hindrance to the flow of saliva, especially when secreted in large quantities as at meals. It is the backward pressure of the saliva that leads to this chronic inflam- mation of the gland. Treatment.— When the inflammation is due to the administration of mercury, the use of the drug should be at once suspended. Hot fomenta- tions should be applied over the swollen gland, chlorate of potash should be given in doses of ten grains four times a day, and the mouth should be washed out frequently with a gargle of chlorate of potash or some antiseptic or astringent mouth-wash, such as sanitas or alum. This condition may or may not end in suppuration. When the inflammation is due to a calculus impacted in Stenson's duct, the obvious treatment is of course to remove the calculus, when the inflam- mation will at once subside and the thickening of the gland will gradually ■disappear. The methods of removal of these calculi are described in connection with salivary calculus (vide infra). An abscess in the parotid gland occurring in the course of infective diseases, such as pyaemia, typhoid, etc., should be opened as soon as it is evident that pus is present; otherwise it may burrow deeply into the neck. In opening these abscesses the external incision should be made as small as is consistent with the thorough evacuation of the pus, it should be horizontal and situated behind the angle of the jaw, and should not go deeper than the capsule of the gland. As soon as the latter is reached, the knife should be laid aside and a channel gradually burrowed into the abscess cavity with a pair of sinus forceps. When the cavity is reached, the separation of the blades of the forceps in an antero-posterior direction in order to avoid tearing the branches of the nerve will enable -a satisfactory opening to be made, through which a good-sized drainage tube can be introduced. The subsequent details of treatment are similar to those for acute abscess elsewhere. Mumps is a disease which only accidentally comes under the notice of the surgeon. Usually both parotid glands become infected within a short time of each other, and in some cases also the other salivary glands. The affection is generally quite devoid of danger and the pain and swelling subside