INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES. 343 within the cannula. The trochar is then extruded from the cannula and the instrument is forcibly pushed onwards in an outward, backward, and slightly upward direction into the antrum and, the trochar being with- drawn, the cavity can be washed out through the cannula. The operation is usually easy if care be taken to make the puncture just a little above the thick ridge of bone which occurs at the junction of the external wall with the floor of the nose. In a few cases difficulty may arise if the antrum be very small, if the outer wall of the nose curve strongly out- wards, if the inferior turbinate be very large or if the septum be strongly deflected. This method has the advantages that it does not entail the sacrifice of a healthy tooth where no carious tooth or vacant space is present; that it only requires local anaesthesia; and that it does not establish a communi- cation between the nose and the mouth. It has however the great dis- advantage that the opening cannot be maintained and that the operation Fig. 123.—Kkause's Antrum Trochar. has therefore to be repeated daily, or as often as may be necessary; this renders prolonged treatment practically impossible. This disadvantage however may sometimes be overcome by enlarging the opening with a large trochar, such as Krause's (see Fig. 123), or by the use of a drill or burr, a small portion of the anterior end of the inferior turbinate being previously removed to allow freer access to the part. This larger opening may show little tendency to close and the patient can be taught to irrigate the cavity himself. (3) Through the canine fossa.—In a few cases in which it seems probable that secondary pathological changes have occurred in the antrum, which will keep up suppuration, it is advisable to open the cavity through the canine fossa. The opening is made with gouge or chisel, and should be large enough to allow exploration of the interior of the cavity with the probe or finger, and thus the cases in which a simple opening and irriga- tion will be obviously insufficient to effect a cure can be at once submitted to a more radical procedure. In considering the question of a cure by these means, it is safe to say: (1) that in cases of dental origin, recent or chronic, a large majority are cured; (2) that in recent cases of nasal origin a majority are cured; (3) that taking all cases together, about fifty per cent, are cured and every case is greatly relieved; (4) that the cure depends to a large extent upon the care with which the patient conducts the after-treatment.