INTRA-CRANIAL INJURIES. 47 of the vessel with Hoffman's forceps. In the meantime, should the bleed- ing be free, it may be temporarily arrested by thrusting the finger between the dura and the bone in the direction from which the blood comes, while the skull is being cut away with the forceps. Except when the vessel is torn very low down, it is generally easy to get at it by the removal of sufficient bone. It is, however, often extremely difficult to apply a ligature to the vessel, as it lies on the dura mater deep down in the wound, and the best plan is to under-run the vessel on each side of the rent, using a fully-curved Hagedorn needle threaded with fine catgut, the needle being passed through the dura mater beneath the vessel and the ligature tied over it (see Fig. 12). Should the vessel be injured at a point where it is not quite free from the groove in the bone it can usually be easily detached with a probe or, if necessary, more bone may be removed. In some cases the groove in the parietal bone has been converted into a canal, which may be con- tinued upwards for some distance from the foramen spinosum, and it may then be necessary to chip the bone away gradually until the bleeding Fig. 13.—The "Parting Tool" for Operations ui'ON the Skull. By means of this instrument a groove or furrow can be very quickly cut in the bone. The cross section of the cutting edge is seen in .S". point is exposed. This should be done either with a sharp gouge or with a parting tool (see Fig. 13), the advantage of the gouge being that a hammer is not required; the jarring caused by the hammer is apt to be prejudicial. When the parting tool is used—and this is sometimes more convenient—the hammer must be used very gently. These measures are successful in most cases, but, if the artery be lying far down in the canal, the best plan is to pack in a quantity of Horsley's wax,1 forcing it down the canal with a plug of gauze and a probe. It is only extremely rarely that such a measure as ligature of the carotid will be required. Should the anterior branch of the middle meningeal artery be intact, the posterior division should be exposed before completing the operation, and this is done, as has been said, at the point of intersection of a line passing from the external angular process of the orbit backwards to the occipital protuberance with one running vertically upwards from the posterior margin of the mastoid process. The steps of the operation are practically similar to those just described. 1 This is a mixture of beeswax 7 parts, almond oil I part, and salicylic acid I part. It should be kept under I in 20 carbolic solution in a widc-mouthed stoppered jar and made ready for use by pinching off a fragment of suitable size and softening it by kneading with the fingers. It is left in situ.