356 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. meatus of the nose. It should be removed daily for syringing the nose and the track, and should be worn for three or four weeks until all sup- puration has ceased. The after results of this operation are excellent. The free drainage provided prevents the danger of any ill results from septic absorption or diffuse osteitis and a permanent cure of the sinus suppuration invariably follows. If the operation be reserved for selected cases, namely, those in which a small frontal sinus is present, it will not entail any marked deformity. Even when the sinus is large, the deformity is much less marked than would be ex- pected. Drainage.—If, on the other hand, it be decided not fig. 126. — indTa- to attempt obliteration, the sinus is first cleared of all Fkontal PSinusFOR P°lypi> etc-> should such exist, and thoroughly cleansed, taking care to injure the mucous membrane as little as possible. Many operators advise, and presumably practise, free curetting of the lining membrane, apparently oblivious of the fact that this can only retard healing, for, if obliteration is not aimed at, a cure depends entirely upon the membrane returning to its normal condition. This will occur if all gross lesions, such as polypi are removed, and re-accumulation of pus prevented by free drainage, and all the quicker if no injury be inflicted on the mucous membrane. Having cleansed the sinus, the infundibulum must be opened up and the anterior ethmoidal cells removed as above described. The whole success of the operation depends upon maintaining a large permanent communication between the sinus and the nose. The following method of drainage will usually be found satisfactory. A large rubber tube is passed down the infundibulum into the nose and fixed in the way just described, the rest of the wound being sutured and allowed to heal. After five or six days this tube must be replaced by a suitably curved silver one something like an ordinary tracheotomy tube. This tube should have a small collar which will prevent it slipping into the sinus and its lower end should pass well down into the nose. Such a tube may be readily removed for purposes of cleaning and to allow of syringing of the sinus and can be readily replaced in position. After the wound has healed, the patient simply wears the tube with a metal plug in it and no dressing. Such a tube may be worn, without causing any discomfort, until all discharge of pus has ceased when it may be discarded and the wound will rapidly close. This procedure, by which drainage may be continued for as long as may be necessary, will pre- vent any of the accidents which have followed the other methods of providing drainage and will also, by being maintained until the opening into the nose has thoroughly healed, ensure that it becomes permanent. This question is one of the greatest importance. The general custom is to pass a large-sized ordinary rubber drainage tube down the infundibulum