FRACTURE OF THE LOWER JAW. 199 There are numerous other methods of treating fractures of the lower jaw, but those above described are the ones most universally applicable. We will only refer to two other methods, namely the use of an inter-dental splint with a chin-plate and the wiring of the fragments together. The former are often very complicated and generally consist of a splint embracing the teeth of the lower jaw above and a chin-plate beneath so designed as to press the fragments up into position. These splints are however radically bad, as it is a cardinal point in their use that the chin-plate must press upon the seat of the fracture and this is apt to cause great irritation and even to lead to pressure sores. Wiring of the fragments is but rarely called for. It may however sometimes be necessary where it is impossible by other means to secure proper coaptation. This is most likely to be the case when there is a double fracture of the jaw either on one side or bilaterally. The great drawback to wiring is that the fracture is almost always compound and septic, and, if the fragments be wired, suppuration may occur about the fracture followed by necrosis and possibly want of union. The method should therefore not be employed unless it is absolutely called for by the failure of other apparatus. But if the proper alignment of the teeth cannot be maintained by any other means then it is quite necessary to wire the fragments, because, if there be any marked defect in this respect, proper mastication is of course permanently interfered with. Wiring may also be very useful in cases of fracture at the angle where there is marked displacement of the posterior fragment, and where the operation can be carried out without opening into the mouth. (3) Fracture of the condyle.—Fracture of the condyle of the jaw often leads to very unsatisfactory results, stiffness of the jaw or pain on mastication being very common sequelae. It seems almost hopeless to expect from any mechanical appliance good union and at the same time good movement of the joint, which almost invariably becomes stiff from the adhesions following the fracture. The methods of treatment which suggest themselves are to cut down and wire the fragments, to commence movement at once with the view of obtaining a false joint, or to excise the condyle in the manner to be presently described in speaking of anchylosis of the jaw (see p. 205). (4) Fracture of the coronoid process.—This is a rare injury which is practically always compound, as for example, after gunshot wounds. The fracture may be simple or comminuted, and the fragment to which the temporal muscle is attached is drawn upwards and does not unite with the jaw ; hence, the movements of the latter may be seriously interfered with, both from the want of connection between the temporal muscle and the jaw and from the actual destruction of the fragment. The wound must be thoroughly purified and then enlarged if necessary to expose the fractured region. If the coronoid process be comminuted or if the detached portion be quite small and parts of the temporal muscle still remain attached to the jaw, the simplest plan is to remove the fragment. On the other hand, if it be a single large fragment and the wound be clean, it will be best to wire the fragment to the base of the coronoid process. In