336 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. in close relation with the interior of the cavity. Thus, an abscess at the root of any of these teeth may easily burst into and infect the antrum. Symptoms.—A patient with an acute rhinitis, simple or associated with influenza, etc., experiences a sudden increase of the nasal symptoms, with a feeling of burning heat and great fulness or tension in the nose and over the region of the affected cavity. There is pain in the affected region and often very severe neuralgia, shooting along the branches of the trigeminal nerve. In the more severe purulent cases there are constitutional disturb- ances, fever, anorexia, etc., and the walls of the affected cavity are tender on pressure or percussion, and the soft tissues overlying them may become swollen, red and cedematous. On examining the nose, besides the evidences of acute rhinitis, there is often to be seen bulging of the wall, or oedema over the site of the affected cavity and especially in the neighbourhood of the ostium. After a few hours or days of increasing suffering there is a sudden discharge from the nostril on the affected side, consisting of mucus, muco-pus or pus mixed in the majority of cases with more or less blood, and the symptoms are immediately relieved. In some cases all symptoms disappear after the initial discharge, or there may be for a few days an intermittent discharge gradually decreasing in quantity. In other cases, after a brief interval, all the symptoms return and increase in severity until a second discharge takes place. This cycle of events may be repeated once, twice, or even oftener and then result in complete recovery. On the other hand the case may become one of chronic empyema. Treatment.—The great object'of treatment in a case of acute catarrh in any of the accessory cavities is to cut short the inflammation in the nose and to reduce the swelling around the opening of the cavity so as to allow a free escape for the pent-up discharge. This is best attained by employing both constitutional and local measures. The disease tends towards a spon- taneous cure, but much can be done to hasten this and to minimise the danger of any secondary changes occurring in the affected cavity which might lead to chronic suppuration. Constitutional measures.—The patient should be confined to a warm room, preferably in bed, and a brisk purge followed by a diaphoretic mixture should be administered as already prescribed for acute rhinitis (see p. 295). Local treatment.—In the first place the nose should be washed out by means of a simple, alkaline lotion, such as Dobell's (see p. 282), which should be either sniffed up the nose or introduced by means of a nasal irrigator, and its use should be continued until all catarrh has ceased. In the second place, special measures must be adopted to reduce the swelling and remove the obstruction around the outlet of the affected cavity. For this purpose nothing acts so well as the solution of cocaine and supra- renal extract, which should be applied on pledgets of wool (see p. 285). When the tissues have been anaesthetised and rendered completely anaemic, any polypus or hypertrophy of the mucous membrane in the affected region