THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. this should not be pushed up to the region of the fracture but should simply plug the orifices so as to act as a sort of filter for the air and should be frequently changed. In fractures of the midd/e fossa, the external auditory meatus may be thoroughly swabbed out with 1-2000 sublimate solution as far back as the membrana tympani, and all clots washed out of the ear with a fine-nozzled irrigator. Great care must be taken to avoid douching under pressure as the fluid cannot escape freely. Some iodoform is then blown in and the meatus is packed with iodoform gauze which should be changed and the douching repeated several times a day. After-treatment.—The after-treatment is similar to that already described for fractures of the vault (see p. 26). ACUTE OSTEO-MYELITIS AND PERIOSTITIS. This disease usually follows a compound fracture in which there has been septic infection of the diploe, but it may also be due to extension from a septic scalp wound—probably from thrombosis of the veins,—from middle ear disease or even from inflammations of the skin, such as boils or carbuncles ; sometimes, though very rarely, it may occur idiopathically. The pathological characters are practicalfy the same as those of the disease elsewhere. In the skull, however, the disease is even more danger- ous than it is in the extremities, for it is especially prone to be followed by sinus phlebitis and pyaemia, by intra-cranial suppuration or by abscess in the brain, and the great majority of these cases end fatally. The affection is apt to extend rapidly over the entire bone first attacked, but it gener- ally stops at the sutures although it may pass on to the periosteum of adjacent bones. The disease is usually ushered in by a rigor followed by a localised swelling marked by cedema and tenderness of the soft parts over it,—a condition described by Pott in connection with injuries of the skull and named after him " Pott's puffy tumour." Such a condition in connection with a wound of the scalp following an inflammation in the vicinity should at once arouse a suspicion of acute osteo-myelitis. When the disease occurs in connection with a compound fracture there is generally a marked diminution in the amount of the discharge, the edges of the wound become everted, the granulations are unhealthy, and the periosteum recedes from the bone and leaves it bare. Treatment.—The immediate opening up of the medulla is essential, and if necessary the whole thickness of the bone must be removed; the sooner and the more thoroughly the operation is performed, the better is the patient's chance. The opening may be effected with a large trephine applied over the inflamed area after the wound has been enlarged; a flap must be turned down when there is no wound. The trephine is carried through the outer table of the skull, which may be detached by means of