THE ANATOMY OF THE NOSE. 269 THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE.—The mucous membrane covering the inferior turbinate bone is extremely thick and contains numerous large venous sinuses with muscular fibres in their walls forming a plexus; it also contains numerous racemose mucous glands, and the surface is covered by columnar ciliated epithelium. These vascular sinuses give to the mucous membrane somewhat the character of erectile tissue. The lower part of the septum and the floor of the nose are covered by a similar thick mucous membrane containing venous plexuses. In the upper part of the nose the mucous membrane is thin and intimately blended with the periosteum. The functions of the nose.—The respiratory functions of the nose are extremely important. The air in passing through it is warmed, being raised almost if not quite to the body temperature, is saturated with moisture and is entirely freed from dust and organisms. The proper per- formance of these functions depends chiefly upon the integrity of the venous sinuses and the action of the ciliated epithelial cells. The former vary in size according to the demands made upon them by the state of the atmo- sphere, and the cilia, aided by a free secretion from the numerous mucous glands, remove all the dust and organisms that have gained access to the nose. Therefore, in operating it is extremely important not to cause any unnecessary damage to the parts carrying on these functions, and particularly the tissues of the inferior meatus. It is especially important to avoid extensive injuries to the epithelium, as under certain conditions these cells may lose their cilia and be replaced by a simpler form of squamous epithelium. THE ACCESSORY SINUSES—Of these the maxillary antrum is the largest and is situated in the body of the superior maxilla (see Figs. 91-93, 95). It is irregularly pyramidal in shape, the apex being formed by the malar process and the base by the outer wall of the nose. The base or inner wall separates the antrum from the inferior meatus of the nose below, and the middle meatus above. It is very markedly convex towards the antrum from before backwards in its lower part. This bony wall is everywhere very thin, especially in its posterior half and in the upper part near the ostium, where it is often defective in places. Its junction with the nasal floor and with the anterior wall form very thick angles of bone. At the extreme upper part of the inner wall and somewhat posteriorly is a small opening or occasionally two openings through which the antrum communicates with the posterior end of the hiatus semilunaris (see Figs. 92, 98). The floor of the antrum is formed by the alveolar margin and the outer part of the hard palate. The roots of the first molar, and more rarely of the adjacent teeth, may protrude into the antrum as small conical pro- jections on its floor and be separated from the cavity merely by an extremely thin bony plate, or by membrane only (see Fig. 98). As a rule the antral floor is on a somewhat lower level than the floor of the nose (see Figs. 91 and 92). The anterior or outer n>all of the antrum corresponds