INTRA-CRANIAL SUPPURATION. 61 place, the focus of the disease is in the antrum, and must be removed before any good result can be expected; in the second place, the direction in which the mischief has spread can very often be determined, and in any case can be more easily followed after the mastoid antrum has been opened; and in the third place, it sometimes happens that, even though the symptoms are very grave, the clearing out of the mastoid antrum and the neighbouring cells suffices to effect a cure. It is by no means always easy to diagnose the extent and situation of the mischief, and an acute inflammation in the antrum may give rise to symptoms which may be mistaken for those of grave intra-cranial mischief. In exposing the mastoid antrum in these acute cases accompanied by doubtful cerebral symptoms, it is well to make a flap considerably larger Fig. 15.—The Operation upon the Mastoid Antrum. The three stages of the operation of clearing out the mastoid antrum are here depicted. In A the antrum a has been laid open and gouged out, and the bridge of bone b between it and the ext. auditory meatus is seen. In B this bridge of bone has been removed, laying the antrum and aditus freely open into the tympanum. In C the operation has been com- pleted by removing the ossicles and smoothing off all the rough angles, scraping out the cavity, etc. It will be noticed that the incision here shown is smaller than that recom- mended in the text. It should be like the one shown in Fig. 16. than that usually employed for the ordinary mastoid operation, as it may be necessary, not only to clear out the antrum, but to expose the lateral sinus freely, and even to explore the brain. The incision should commence about half an inch vertically above the external auditory meatus and be carried with a bold sweep backwards so that its convexity is well behind the posterior margin of the mastoid process, sweeping forwards below to end just in front of that structure. The incision should be carried directly down to the bone and all the soft parts, including the pericranium, should be turned well forwards with it. The antrum is on a level with the upper margin of the bony meatus and slightly less than half an inch behind it (see Fig. 15, A, a,); its cavity lies about half an inch below the surface, and its outer wall should therefore be removed either with a burr driven with an electric motor, or, if that be not available, with a small gouge. The removal of the bone should always be carried out