85 FOCAL EPILEPSY. of it. Of course under such circumstances it is impossible to replace the bone, because the substratum is non-vascular, and therefore the hole in the skull must be left open. TUMOURS OF THE BRAIX. Varieties.—Masses of new growth may occur in the brain, which may be either true neoplasms or of inflammatory origin, such as those that occur in tuberculous or syphilitic disease; the most common of all are tuberculous masses, the next most common are gliomata, then sarcomata, various cysts and syphilitic gummata. As the differential diagnosis of these conditions is not possible beforehand, it is well to deal with them together. Hence we shall consider not merely the true tumours but also tuberculous and syphilitic masses and the various cystic tumours. Perhaps the most common of the latter are the result of haemorrhage; besides these there are echinococcus cysts or cysts due to degeneration of tumours. The chief point of value in diagnosing these conditions is the existence of similar disease elsewhere; thus in the case of tuberculous lesions the presence of tuberculous disease elsewhere, with evidence of multiple tumours in the brain, may give an indication of the true nature of the disease; on the other hand, a history of syphilis, evidence of thickening of the meninges, affections of individual nerves, etc., may lead to the diagnosis of a syphilitic gumma. As regards the tumours proper, it is usually quite impossible to predict the true nature of the tumour, but in some cases variations in intra-cranial pressure indicating variations in the vascularity of the tumour may lead one to suspect glioma. Symptoms.—A tumour growing in or upon the brain presents two distinct and definite sets of symptoms. The first set are those common to all intra-cranial swellings and takes the form of increased intra-cranial pressure. This is indicated by such symptoms as headache, vomiting, optic neuritis, and later on coma. The other set of symptoms are localis- ing symptoms due to the seat of the tumour and the destruction or irritation of the part of the brain in its immediate neighbourhood. It is both impossible and unnecessary to go here into the question of the differential diagnosis of the various forms of cerebral tumour or of the localisation of the growth. This would involve a long statement of the present position of our knowledge of the physiology of the brain and for this purpose a separate text-book on the subject must be consulted. All we can do is to indicate the various cortical centres (see Figs. 21 and 22). Treatment.— Medicinal.—As it is very difficult to be certain as to the exact nature of the tumour in the first instance, it is usual to begin the treatment with a course of anti-syphilitic remedies, which should be pushed rapidly and in large doses and should consist not merely in the administration of iodide of potassium but also -and more especially in inunction with mercury to the extent required to produce its physiological