GENERAL METHODS OF TREATMENT 285 but if cocaine be used in the careful manner above described there is very slight danger of it producing any ill effects. In some cases however there is a remarkable idiosyncrasy with regard to this drug, a minute dose pro- ducing dangerous symptoms. Thus, when first using it in a case, great caution is necessary, and diffusible stimulants such as sal volatile or whiskey should always be at hand and at once administered in case of faintness. It is a good plan always to give a small dose of stimulant as a prophylactic in nervous or weakly people. The after-effects of cocaine are frequently manifested by excitability, loquacity, and some loss of self-control, followed by tremblings and more or less severe depression. In neurotic individuals especially, a severe attack of hysteria is very common. These symptoms are best combated by the recumbent position and the administration of hot stimulating drinks, such as beef-tea or alcohol. In such cases the following method should always be employed in preference to cocaine alone. The suprarenal extract.—This is best used in a 4% or 5% solution in combination with cocaine, a convenient method being to dis- solve a 5-grain soloid together with 5 grains of cocaine in about 100 minims of distilled water. The drug produces the most marked constriction of the nasal mucous membrane, rendering, it practically white and anaemic : it requires from twenty to thirty minutes to produce its full effect. Used as an addition to cocaine, it produces more complete and lasting anaesthesia, and almost completely prevents haemorrhage during small operations in the nose. Thus, during the whole of the operation it is possible to see accurately what is being done. The combination with cocaine is especially valuable in patients who are intolerant of the latter drug, as very complete anaesthesia can be obtained with the use of a very minute quantity of cocaine, and, moreover, it is less liable to be absorbed owing to the constriction of the blood vessels. The extract alone is inefficient and somewhat painful. The one objection to the use of suprarenal extract is that it increases the tendency to secondary haemorrhage, and consequently in operations on nasal spurs or on the inferior turbinate, in which this drug has been used, it is advisable not to let the patient go beyond reach of the surgeon for at least 24 hours, or, if this be impracticable, to pack the nose im- mediately after the operation. Another nasal astringent sometimes employed, but of far less value, is antipyrine, which may be used in a 5°/0 or io°/0 solution. A little cocaine should always be applied before using it. NASAL ANTISEPSIS. As already stated, the nasal mucosa covering the nasal fossae proper is in health usually free from organisms, and if organisms be artificially introduced they are rapidly removed. Thus, before operations on the healthy nose, it is worse than useless to apply irritating antiseptics. Of course, in cases in which pus or other discharges are present, the nose