I 18 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. cut off by a series of ligatures (see Fig. 31), and then undiluted carbolic acid is injected from the cutaneous surface into the substance of the nsevus, half a minim at a time, at various points; in about ten minutes the ligatures may be removed. In the course of a few weeks the thickening subsides and it is then possible to see how much of the tumour has been cured and how much nsevoid tissue is left behind. It is very important in employing injection to be careful not to inject the carbolic acid too near to the surface, as otherwise sloughing and septic complica- tions are likely to ensue (see also Part I., p. 269). Electrolysis.—Should electrolysis be employed (see Part L, p. 266), two points of importance must be observed. In the first place the needles must not come too near either the cutaneous or the mucous surface, more especially the latter, and the current must not be so strong as to cause actual destruction of tissue; one of 25 milliamperes is quite sufficient. The needles must of course be introduced through the skin, which should be duly purified, and the punctures made afterwards covered with a small collodion dressing. LYMPHANGIOMA.—The .condition known as macro-cheilia, or con- genital hypertrophy of the lip, is most probably of this nature. One or both lips may be affected, generally the lower, which becomes much everted and pendulous, causing considerable deformity and readily ulcer- ating. This gives rise to still further thickening, and in some cases the lip may be so large that the surgeon is called upon to remedy the deformity. Treatment.—This is a matter of very great difficulty. The deformity can of course be readily corrected by an operation similar to that recommended for hypertrophy of the lip in tuberculous patients (see p. 115); but in these lymphangiomatous cases there is a grave risk of septic com- plications, and the operation must therefore not be done without very definite cause. It is however found that, if electrolysis be employed first, the main lymphatic spaces become blocked and the thickened tissues left behind may then be removed by excision comparatively safely. Electrolysis should therefore always be done and repeated until the mass has become solid. Previous to the excision, the mucous membrane should be everted and carefully disinfected, and the mouth should be so packed as to prevent saliva running over the wound during the operation. The teeth should also be carefully examined by a dentist and scaled if necessary. After the excision, the wound should be accurately stitched up with the finest catgut, and it is well to paint it over with Whitehead's varnish.1 The mouth should be constantly rinsed out with lotions of sanitas or boro-glyceride (a teaspoonful of each to a small tumbler of water). Condy's fluid is not so good because, if it be of sufficient strength to act as an efficient mouth-wash, it stains the skin. CYSTS.—Cysts in connection with the muciparous glands are not at 1 This is made by adding 1 vol. of turpentine to 9 vols, of a saturated solution of iodoform in ether.