TRACHEOTOMY. 255 Under these circumstances it may be necessary to have recourse to a tracheal aspirator, of which that introduced by Mr. Parker (see Fig. 88) is the best. This consists of a catheter connected by an india-rubber tube with a small glass vessel into which some cotton-wool is introduced so as to prevent the possibility of membrane or mucus from the trachea entering the surgeon's mouth as it is sucked out. There may sometimes be considerable difficulty in the introduction of the cannula. This is generally due to the opening in the trachea being made too small, and it is further increased if the patient happens to have a short, fat neck, so that the trachea is situated very deeply. Clumsy attempts at introducing a cannula through an insufficient opening may cause serious damage to the structures of the neck as the tube may be forced down either in front of or to one side of the trachea, and this may be followed by the most serious septic complications. Therefore, Fig. 88.—Parker's Tracheal Aspirator. The glass cylinder is filled loosely with cotton-wool. before opening the trachea, the surgeon should bear clearly in mind the size of the tube he is about to employ, and should always make the incision free enough to enable it to be introduced without any difficulty. The use of the sharp hooks above recommended (see p. 249) enormously facili- tates this procedure, and with them it is almost impossible to go wrong. Should they not be at hand, the manoeuvre of depressing one edge of the incision into the trachea with the finger-nail and slipping the tube over it (see p. 251) will suffice. In inserting the tube it should first be held with its long axis at right angles to the long axis of the neck until the point is well within the trachea; it is then rotated round through a quarter of a circle until its long axis coincides with the long axis of the body and its introduction is completed. Complications.—There are very few complications following this opera- tion, most of the difficulties arising during the progress of the operation itself. Ihrnwrrhage does not occur as a rule if care has been taken to ligature all bleeding vessels before the child is put back to bed, but it may sometimes occur in the later stages from ulceration of the trachea due to a badly-fitting tube, or from free oozing from the granulations about the orifice. The best method of meeting this is either to dispense with the tube entirely or to substitute the india-rubber one (see p. 252) as soon as possible.