166 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. In some cases a certain amount of contraction of the lip opposite the point of incision occurs even after this operation, and with the view of avoiding this, flaps may be cut on the two sides and turned down instead of detaching the flap on the mesial side of the cleft; when the sutures are inserted this leaves the red line of the lip actually projecting downwards (see Fig. 61). Should the subsequent contraction not completely remove this small protuberance, it can afterwards be cut away. When there is only a slight drawing-up, Nelaton's operation will easily remedy it. In this an angular incision parallel to and just outside the edge of the notch on each side is made through the whole thickness of the lip and then the mucous edge of the lip is pulled downwards and the incision trans- formed into a lozenge-shaped opening which is stitched together so as to leave a vertical cicatrix (see Fig. 62). ABC Fig. 62.—Nela'ton's Operation. This is most useful when there is a pucker left in the lip after a previous operation. A shows the A-shaped incision converted into a lozenge-shaped opening in B, which is sutured as shown in C. 3. Unilateral hare-lip with, cleft of the alveolus.—Here the deformity is usually greater and the additional points requiring attention are the projection forward of the cleft alveolus on the mesial side of the cleft and the undue breadth of the nostril. The projection forwards of the margin of the alveolus, if only slight, is often gradually overcome by the pressure of the repaired lip, but, when it is very marked, the repair of the lip cannot be done satisfactorily until the projection of the alveolus is remedied. In these cases, therefore, after detaching the lip from the bone, as in the preceding operations, the alveolus must be forced into position. This is usually done by seizing the projecting bone above the roots of the teeth with a pair of strong forceps whose blades are covered with tubing and forcibly bending it back; as a matter of practice it is usually necessary to fracture the alveolus to prevent it springing forward again when the forceps are removed. It may sometimes be necessary when suturing the lip in position to pass a wire suture through the alveolus on each side in order to keep the prominent portion back. Before doing this, the opposed surfaces of the alveolar cleft should be pared. The second point which requires attention is the broadening of the ala. The lip on the shorter side of the cleft is usually very deficient, not merely in breadth but in length, and, if the ala of the nose be simply detached as in the preceding operations, the nostril will be completely closed when the two sides are brought into apposition. Under these circumstances it is well, before detaching the ala, to carry an incision upwards on the cheek around it so as to separate it from the upper lip, as for repair of the upper