METHODS OF EXAMINATION AND TREATMENT. scope the curved nozzle of the spray is directed well over the epiglottis, the patient is asked to phonate, and a vigorous spray is directed on to the vocal cords. This often produces spasm and cough, and mucous crusts, etc., are detached and come away with the solution. The spraying can usually be accomplished by the patient himself or by an attendant. The patient must draw his tongue forward, pass the curved nozzle of the spray well back into the pharynx and tilt it somewhat forwards as well as down- wards. If now he draws a long breath at the same time that the ball of the spray producer is pressed, a large amount of the spray will be inhaled into the larynx. The larynx may also be cleansed by means of a Siegel's steam spray.1 Steam inhalations.—This is a most useful method of applying local medication in catarrhal affections of the upper air passages. It is necessary to have a jug capable of holding about two pints of fluid, round the top of which a towel is wrapped. The upper end of the towel is folded to form a cone, into which the patient's mouth and nose can be introduced; or a special inhaler, such as a Maw's, may be used. Into the inhaler a pint of nearly boiling water is introduced; it should then be left to stand for about five minutes, when any drug that it is wished to employ, such as compound tincture of benzoin, may be added. The steam should be inhaled for five to eight minutes by means of long, deep inspirations taken alternately through the mouth and the nose. It is very important that the vapour should be at a temperature of about 130° to 1400 F. It is a common fault with patients to use inhalations too hot, when all the good effects are lost and the throat may be much irritated or even scalded. It is especially pernicious to keep on adding boiling water and to continue the inhalation too long. Eight minutes should be the maximum, but the inhalation may be repeated three or four times daily. These inhalations relax the mucous membrane and render the patient susceptible to cold; therefore he should remain in the same room for at least half an hour after using them. When it is necessary for the patient to be out of doors during the day, the inhalations should be used only at night and in the bedroom. Insufflations.—Various powders, such as morphine, orthoform, etc., may be introduced into the larynx by means of suitable insufflators guided by the laryngoscope. A minute quantity of powder should be diluted with some innocuous substance so as to diffuse it. For this purpose starch is useful as it forms a sticky mixture which adheres to the larynx. The application should be made whilst the patient is phonating and immediately after it he should be directed to close the mouth and inspire deeply- through the nose, so as to prevent cough and allow the powder to remain in position. Astringents or strong solutions of any kind are best applied 1 With this apparatus a coarse spray is produced, and the patient opens his mouth widely so as to allow the jet to play on to the back of his pharynx. By inhaling, the spray is drawn down into the larynx.