THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. WOUNDS OF THE PAROTID GLAND. Wounds of the parotid are of importance because they may injure the external carotid artery and its branches, the facial nerve or the salivary ducts. Treatment.—So far as the wound is concerned, the treatment is the same as that for accidental wounds elsewhere. The essential points to be considered in connection with these injuries are the three complications above mentioned. Of haemorrhage.—In the case of bleeding, the wound should be carefully enlarged, avoiding as far as possible any injury to the facial nerve. Hence the opening should be enlarged in an oblique direction, upwards and forwards rather than vertically. When the parotid gland is exposed, a pair of forceps may be used to separate the parotid tissue itself so as to enable the bleeding point to be exposed and seized without injuring the facial nerve. In most cases, however, it is not advisable to enlarge the wound sufficiently to apply a ligature to a deep-seated vessel, as the chance of injuring the nerve is very great; as a matter of fact, if the bleeding point be caught in a pair of forceps, which are left on for 24 hours, the occlusion of the vessel will be quite satisfactory. Again, if the bleeding be venous, it is not advisable to enlarge the wound more than is necessary to introduce a gauze plug. When the terminal portion of the external carotid artery itself is divided the condition is very much more serious, because the vessel is deeply seated, difficult to expose and almost impossible to ligature without damage to the facial nerve. Hence, in very severe arterial bleeding from a wound of the parotid, it is best to have the bleeding point compressed with the finger and then to expose the external carotid artery at its origin. A ligature is passed around it but is not tied. By pulling upon the ligature the artery is constricted so that the wound can be sponged free from blood and another effort can be made to catch the divided end of the artery. If the latter be only partially divided it must be cut across completely. If it be completely divided and it is impossible to tie it, the ligature round the external carotid should be tightened and the wound in the parotid plugged for a couple of days so as to prevent bleeding from the upper end. The plug may then be withdrawn and the wound sutured; if, however, it be much contused, the wound had better be left open and allowed to granulate. Of division of the facial nerve.—When the facial nerve is divided after it has broken up into its terminal branches, there is little hope of securing any satisfactory union. If, on the other hand, the injury occurs behind this point it might be possible after a careful search to find and unite the ends with fine catgut; but the chances of success are very slight. When, however, facial paralysis follows a stab in the parotid region it is well to expose the nerve and try whether the ends can be united; it is then better to expose the main trunk of the nerve by the ordinary method than to try to find it by enlarging the wound. An incision is carried from just