92 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. becomes a point of great importance to close the defect in the skull. This is dealt with more fully later on (see p. 94). ■ Operation in two stages.—After the bone has been removed, the dura mater will bulge into the opening and will be somewhat yellowish in colour and devoid of pulsation. When this stage of the operation has been reached the surgeon will have to determine whether he will proceed with the remaining steps of the operation—i.e. the removal of the tumour—at once or defer them to another day. At any rate, before opening the dura mater he must see that the amount of skull removed is sufficient for the purpose of obtaining free access to the tumour, and, if the latter be at all large, it will generally be advisable to stop the proceedings at this stage and to complete the operation another time. In that case the flap is put back in place again, a few stitches are inserted, the ordinary dressings are applied, and the patient is put back to bed. The importance of dividing these operations into two stages depends on the fact that the shock and the loss of blood accompanying them are usually very great, so that, by the time the dura mater is exposed and examined, the patient is considerably collapsed; if to this be added the shock occasioned by interference with the brain and the loss of blood involved in the removal of the tumour, the patient may succumb upon the table. Hence the general rule will be to return the patient to bed and wait for a few days before proceeding with the further stages of the operation. When the operation is merely performed with the view of relieving pressure, the exposure of the dura mater of course ends the operative procedures. Opening t/ie dura mater.—After an interval varying, according to the condition of the patient, from four to ten days after the first operation, chloroform is again administered after a preliminary injection of morphine. The same precautions are taken as before with regard to asepsis, and every possible means of minimising shock is adopted (see Part I., p. 139). The sutures are removed, the flap turned down and the dura mater exposed. The latter should be opened so as to form a flap which is turned upwards. A small incision is made into the dura, about half an inch from the edge of the bone, and then, with a pair of blunt-pointed scissors, the incision is carried round parallel to the edge of the opening in the bone (see Fig. 14). Several small blood-vessels will probably be divided, but they can usually, be seized and ligatured as they are cut; when the incision runs across large vessels it is well to under-run these with a small Hagedorn needle and tie them before they are divided (see Fig. 12). All haemorrhage from the dura should be stopped before going further. It is well to avoid the use of any irritating lotion, and the only fluid that should be brought in contact with the dura mater or the brain should be either warm sterilised salt solution (see p. 29) or boracic lotion, perferably the former. Removal of the tumour.—The. brain is carefully examined, and if there be a tumour upon the cortex it will generally be manifest at once. If it be beneath the grey matter, the convolutions will be flattened and will present