THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. 274 considered as forming a part of that sinus. The ostia of the ethmoidal cells are most usually in the lateral walls of the cavities. They may be near the apex, and are almost always too highly placed to allow of efficient drainage. The cells are practically absent at birth, and are developed during infancy and childhood. The sphenoidal sinuses are situated in the body of the sphenoid bone, and are usually somewhat quadrilateral in shape (see Figs. 96, 97, 98). Fig. 98.—Vertical Section of the Nose through the Bodv of the Sphenoid, near the Middle Line Posteriorly, and passing obliquely forwards through the Outer Wall of the Nose, the Orbit and the Alveolar Border An- teriorly. Viewed from the outer side. Part of the inner wall of the orbit and of the inner wall of the antrum have been subsequently cut away to show the infundibulum, the ethmoidal cells, and the large concavities under the middle and inferior turbinates. a. Post-pharyngeal wall; b. posterior margin of the nasal septum ; c. outer surface of the middle turbinate ; d. sphenoidal sinus showing a probe inserted into its ostium ; e. posterior ethmoidal cells ; f. middle ethmoidal cells ; g. inner wall of the_ orbit; h. position of ostium of frontal sinus surrounded by anterior ethmoidal cells ; i. probe passed down the infundibulum into the middle meatus; k. inner wall of the orbit; /. lachrymal duct; m. ostium of maxillary antrum; n. and o. parts of inner wall of antrum ; /. large external surface of inferior turbinate; q. hard palate; r. socket of first molar tooth showing its proximity to floor of antrum. The anterior wall looking downwards and forwards is usually thin, and forms part of the roof of the nasal cavity. The upper wall, dividing the sinus from the cranial cavity, is usually composed of somewhat dense bone, but it may be thin. The other walls are thick, and are of no surgical importance. The septum is very commonly deflected from the median line, and the sinuses themselves are extremely variable in size,