74 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. and their blades expanded so as to ascertain if any pus be present. If so, the cavity should be washed out, drained and treated as already described (see p. 68). SINUS THROMBOSIS. The venous sinuses in the skull are probably more predisposed to the occurrence of thrombosis than are any other veins, owing to their anatomical characters and the peculiarities of the circulation through them. Two forms of thrombosis are met with, namely, non-infective or marasmic thrombosis, and the infective form. Of these the latter is the more common, and is in fact the only one for which active treatment can be employed. The marasmic form chiefly occurs in the longitudinal sinus and affects weakly people, especially children or old subjects, after prolonged and debilitating illnesses. In children, exhausting diarrhoea is one of the most common causes, and the thrombosis generally appears during con- valescence, the result being cerebral congestion and oedema. In bad cases the ventricles may be distended with serous fluid, and there may be subsequent cerebral softening. Symptoms.—The symptoms are somewhat indefinite, but in children thrombosis may be suspected if convulsions occur after exhausting illnesses, and more especially if the symptoms be unilateral and accompanied by muscular rigidity, strabismus, etc. Treatment.—There is nothing to be done beyond providing absolute rest and administering nutriment in the most concentrated and easily assimilated form. Any symptoms which arise may be appropriately treated, but there seems to be no scope for surgical intervention. The infective form.—This condition is usually met with in the basal sinuses, especially in young adults. It is always secondary to some external lesion, and usually occurs at the nearest point to the source of infection. Among the causes which give rise to it are septic compound fractures, infective processes such as erysipelas, diffuse cellulitis, carbuncle, etc., about the face or scalp, or middle-ear disease. The condition has already been fully described in connection with thrombosis of the lateral sinus occurring after disease of the ear (see p. 59). Among the other sinuses which are not uncommonly affected are the cavernous and the transverse sinus. Symptoms.— When the cavernous sinus is involved there are disturbances in the eye on the affected side, such as congestion of the veins, compres- sion of the oculo-motor nerves, pain, small pupil, cloudy cornea, cedematous eyelid, and more or less exophthalmos. Later on, the pupil becomes dilated, and ulceration of the cornea may result. There is pain in the supra-orbital and frontal regions, which is increased on pressure. When the transverse sinus is involved the symptoms are chiefly connected with the vagus which is first irritated and later on paralysed.