I2 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. attached to the bed in which it lies and the removal of the tumour is by no means an easy matter. In some cases also sebaceous cysts have been the starting point of an epithelioma. Treatment.—The treatment of these cysts is excision, and, seeing that they will steadily increase in size, it is best to remove them while they are still small. As a rule it is hardly necessary to shave the skin over the tumour; at most a few hairs along the line of incision may be cut. away. The scalp and hair in the neighbourhood should however be thoroughly disinfected and a quantity of the cyanide of mercury and zinc paste (see p. 5) should be well rubbed in. A straight, narrow-bladed bistoury is then pushed through the cyst, with the edge directed upwards, and the knife is made to cut upwards so as to divide the outer half of the cyst wall. If now a little pressure be made on each side, the cyst wall will be seen to protrude from the bed in which it lies and can be seized with forceps and with a little care can be pulled out from the Fig. 3.—Methods of removal of Sebaceous Cysts. In A and B are shown the stages of the removal when the cyst wall is thick and firm, e.g. on the scalp. The cyst is first cut across by transfixion, and its contents squeezed out; then, as shown in B, the wall is laid hold of by catch-forceps and traction exerted. The wall pulls out and only a mere touch of the knife is required. In C the cyst is dissected down upon from outside, a portion of the thinned skin being included in the elliptical incision. tissues around (see Fig. 3). When the tumour is larger, it is well to make an elliptical incision enclosing a sufficient amount of the thinned and superfluous skin, and then, when the cyst wall is reached, to shell out the cyst by means of a blunt dissector without opening it. A small vessel may require twisting at the bottom of the cavity, and then one or two points of interrupted catgut suture may be applied so as to bring the skin edges together. As these edges are very thin, they are apt to curl inwards, and this must be borne in mind in putting in the sutures. In cases of fairly large cysts it is well for the first twenty-four hours to apply a pad of antiseptic gauze over the area of the operation and to fasten it on with a firm bandage so as to arrest the oozing into the cavity. Unless this be done, there is apt to be a collection of blood-clot distending the cavity which may render the healing slow, or, should infection take place, may break down and suppurate. At the end of twenty-four hours the bandage and pad may be taken off, a small collodion dressing fixed on,