316 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. true recurrence is at least equally common, and depends upon the fact that polypi are only symptoms of bone disease. OSTEITIS AND PERIOSTITIS OF THE ETHMOID.—The mucous membrane of the nose in the ethmoidal region being practically continuous with and inseparable from the periosteum, the latter is always affected in any acute inflammation of this region, especially in the severer forms met with in the specific fevers, influenza, erysipelas, etc. When this occurs the cells in the deeper layer of the periosteum proliferate, the membrane becomes thickened, and the subjacent bone is attacked by large cells (osteoclasts) which gradually eat it away. In places periostitis may be producing thickening of the bone, while in other places' absorption is taking place. If the middle turbinate be affected, there is seen in the early stage an enlargement at part of the bone chiefly due to cedema and hypertrophy of the overlying soft parts. Simple removal of this cede- matous tissue is rapidly followed by recurrence, but if a large piece of the underlying bone be also removed a cure will be effected. This localised oedema of the mucous membrane passes by insensible gradations into a typical nasal polypus. "When the disease spreads, the middle turbinate may be entirely dis- organised, and the greater part of the ethmoid may be broken up. An examination in this stage will show the whole upper part of the nose filled by a large gelatinous mass of polypi, polypoid growths and degenerated mucous membrane, in which crumbling fragments of bone may be detected. Frequently, but by no means invariably, this is accompanied by suppura- tion, most usually in the ethmoidal cells, sometimes also in the other sinuses. Clinical features.—Polypi may occur at any age, but are rare in children and are most common between 20 and 30. They may affect one or both nostrils, and vary from the size of a pea up to a mass two or three inches long, which may entirely fill and distend the nostril and project both into the anterior and posterior nares. Commonly three or four, and occasion- ally six or even more polypi will be found in one nostril. They may be completely pedunculated or broadly sessile; in fact, there is every gradation between a simple swelling or localised cedema of the mucous membrane and a well-developed pedunculated nasal polypus. The most prominent symptoms are the nasal obstruction with its remote effects upon the throat and ear, headache and inability to fix the attention, and commonly a profuse nasal discharge, in some cases clear and watery, in others, purulent. In the latter case accessory sinus disease must always be suspected. Treatment.—It is obvious that the treatment of the polypi cannot be dissociated from that of the disease of the bone, and for purposes of description it is convenient to recognise three stages—(1) the stage of commencing bone disease, with simple cedema of the overlying mucous membrane, such as causes enlargement of the anterior end of the middle turbinate and turbinal cysts; (2) the stage of simple polypus-formation