LARYNGEAL PHTHISIS. 449 should live in an equable temperature, in a mild dry climate and a place that is not dusty. To relieve the dysphagia many methods are recommended; the best is undoubtedly to insufflate the larynx with orthqform daily about an hour before the first meal. Enough should be used to fairly dust over the affected parts, as the drug seems quite non-toxic. If the practitioner is not always available, a nurse, or even the patient himself, may be taught ho\r to use it. Orthoform is but slightly soluble and adheres to the raw surface for a long time. Its anaesthetic effect lasts for six to twelve hours or more. The drug also allays the irritable cough and removes pain, enabling the patient to return to a proper diet. Orthoform is much better than cocaine, which has to be applied to the larynx about ten minutes before each meal as its anaesthetic effect is transient; moreover cocaine is toxic and must be applied by the surgeon himself, and its frequent employment seems to produce general wasting. The difficulty in stvallozving liquids may be relieved by thickening them with starch, thus rendering them less liable to enter the larynx, or the postural method may be tried. The patient lies prone on a chair or on a bed with his head hanging down well over the end; then he sucks up the fluid through a tube. Should this method fail, fluids may be given by enemata, a pint of salt solution (.JS°L) being given twice daily, or oftener if necessary, brandy being administered in the same way if desired. If dysp7icea be present the question of tracheotomy arises. This compli- cation is really only to be feared when the narrow glottic or sub-glottic region is affected, should much swelling occur and ulceration be delayed. Tracheotomy has also been recommended as a palliative measure in severe tubercul*ous disease, but it has many and grave disadvantages. It materially diminishes the efficiency of the cough, the secretion from the lungs is apt to accumulate in the bronchi and alveoli and set up miliary tuberculosis. Again, the patient can often ill withstand even this slight operation; his power of speaking is diminished or lost and his mental anxiety is increased. Not rarely, also, the tracheotomy wound becomes infected with tubercle. For these reasons tracheotomy should never be performed in phthisis except for severe dyspnoea. LUPUS OF THE LARYNX. Lupus of the larynx is usually associated with a similar affection of the upper air passages and the skin. The disease is very chronic, causes very little oedema of the larynx even when affecting the upper aperture, and very rarely extends beneath the mucous membrane except in connection with the epiglottis, which latter cartilage is often partially destroyed. As a rule the epiglottis is first attacked ; in time the whole larynx may become almost filled with nodular excrescences and the outline of the parts is obscured and distorted. pt. v. 2 v