5o THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. bleeding points present after removal of the clot should be taken up and twisted or tied. As a rule the haemorrhage can be easily arrested by gentle pressure with a hot sponge. After the bleeding has quite ceased, the opening in the dura should be stitched up, a piece of sterilised gold-foil larger in circumference than the trephine opening being placed between the brain and the dura so as to prevent adhesions, the portions of bone replaced and the wound stitched up. In some cases it is well to put in a few threads of horsehair to act as a drain. Haemorrhage from other vessels.—Injuries of other vessels inside the skull are rare compared with rupture of the middle meningeal. Apart however from that artery other small vessels on the outer surface of the dura mater may be injured, or the internal carotid itself may be torn in fractures of the base, or there may be haemorrhage from various cerebral sinuses, usually as the result of fracture. The longitudinal sinus is the one most commonly affected. Symptoms.—The symptoms of bleeding from a sinus are those of intra- cranial haemorrhage from other causes, but, as a rule, localising symptoms are not distinct, owing to the situation of the bleeding. The compression also is not so rapid as in haemorrhage from the middle meningeal, nor is it so severe, owing to the lower pressure of the blood in the sinuses. Bleeding from the superior longitudinal sinus is always associated with fracture of the skull, and consequently it is usually accompanied by a diffuse haematoma of the scalp. The occurrence of a hematoma on the vertex associated with symptoms of compression is a valuable diagnostic point and may indicate where the rupture of the vessel has taken place. Death does not necessarily follow in these cases, even when no opera- tion is performed, owing to the slight pressure under which the blood is poured out. Various consequences may, however, follow, chiefly from adhesions, which may give rise to epileptic fits or mental disturbance at a subsequent period. Treatment.—When the fracture runs across a sinus, such as the superior longitudinal, and there is a haematoma with signs of compression, the proper treatment is of course to open the skull in the situation of the sinus. It is well to make the trephine opening a little to one side of the sinus, and then, if necessary, to enlarge the opening in the bone by clip- ping away portions with Hoffman's forceps. In this way the risk of laceration of the sinus with the teeth of the trephine is avoided. On removing the bone, blood may be found between it and the dura, but it is generally advisable to open the latter in the manner already described (see p. 48), as there is usually sub-dural haemorrhage as well. In some cases the opening in the sinus may be stitched up, or an attempt may be made to tie the vessel between two ligatures after opening the dura mater. That, however, is not at all an easy matter, and one is very apt to lacerate the sinus still further, so that in most cases where it is impossible to stitch up the opening in the dura mater the best plan is to plug the