317 CHRONIC INFLAMMATIONS. with a limited extent of osteitis; and (3) the stage of extensive polypoid degeneration of the mucous membrane with extensive disintegration of the ethmoid. 1. In simple cases of enlargement of the anterior end of the middle turbinate, it is best to remove the affected part and thus to cut short the disease. The application of the cautery, so commonly recommended, is calculated to do only harm. Amputation of the anterior end of the middle turbinate is thus effected : The nose having been thoroughly cleansed and cocainised (see p. 284), a good light is thrown into it and the middle turbinate is divided behind the part to be removed. This may be accomplished with a pair of nasal scissors, such as Symonds's, or better still with Griinwald's punch forceps (see Fig. 116). One blade of the forceps is applied under the middle turbinate and the other passed between the latter and the septum, and thus a large notch is made in the free border of the bone (see Fig. W],A). Fig. 116.—Grunwald's Nasal Cutting Forceps for opening the ethmoidal cells, etc. Into this notch the wire of a snare is passed; the tip of the snare is pressed well up against the anterior end of the middle turbinate and the wire tightened. In this way, half, or more if required, of the anterior part of the bone may be easily and safely removed. It is sometimes recommended to divide with curved scissors the attachment of the anterior end of the bone to the outer wall of the nose, and to complete the opera- tion by removing the isthmus thus produced with the snare, as in anterior turbinectomy (see p. 304), but this is a far more difficult manipulation than the proceeding just advocated. When it is desired to remove the posterior end or the whole of the middle turbinate it is best to use the spokeshave, and to operate under general anaesthesia; nitrous oxide is usually sufficient for this purpose. The operation is very easy, and is similar in all essentials to that already described for removal of the inferior turbinate (see p. 307). As much of the bone as possible should be taken away, as there is in this case no risk of leaving a too patent nostril.