INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES. 355 •not too large. In such cases it may be done with extremely slight -deformity; it is especially desirable when there is caries of the bony walls, and should always be done if possible when the posterior wall is deficient, •or when brain symptoms are present. In some exceptional cases the sinus is so extensive that obliteration is impracticable; and in others it is so large that the resulting depression would be most noticeable and unsightly, .and then drainage must be relied upon. Obliteration of the cavity.—To obliterate the cavity the entire anterior .and inferior walls of the sinus must be removed; this may be done with the chisel or bone forceps. The probe is then passed down the infundi- bulum to serve as a guide, and all the bony cells anterior to it, between it and the lower part of the wound, which form the floor of the frontal ■sinus, are entirely removed, and the infundibulum is also enlarged posteriorly; in this way the whole nasal portion of the floor of the sinus is removed and the anterior ethmoidal cells are freely opened. A finger passed up •from the nose is a good guide whilst curetting the infundibulum, and the hole should be made sufficiently large to enable the finger in the nose to -touch a finger in the wound. The mucous membrane lining the sinus is -then thoroughly scraped away, special care being taken to empty any •recesses. Any bony excrescences must also be chipped away. A large drainage tube is then passed down the infundibulum, its upper ■end fixed to the skin at the inner angle of the wound and the lower end brought out through the anterior nares. The rest of the wound is now sutured with some non-absorbent material such as silkworm gut, the skin and periosteum being carefully united and allowed to fall back in •contact with the posterior wall of the sinus, and finally the wound is dressed with a pad of boracic lint which should be kept wet with a solution of boracic acid and frequently changed. This solution may be iced for the first 24 hours, the cold being exceedingly comforting to the patient and tending to prevent swelling and extravasation into the orbit. The wet dressing also seems to facilitate the healing of the wound. Considerable oedema of the upper eyelid usually follows the operation .and the patient has a black eye for a few days, but such symptoms soon ■disappear. The wound usually heals by first intention and the sutures may be removed by the seventh to the tenth day. The drainage tube should be syringed through daily and should be changed about the fourth day. To do this a fresh piece of drainage tube is attached by a long piece ■of silk to the upper end of the old tube and then this latter is drawn down out of the anterior nares. The track of the tube may now be thoroughly cleansed by syringing and then the second drainage tube can be drawn into position by means of the silk thread. If there be much discharge the drainage tube may be removed daily. After about a fortnight all sings may be left off and the drainage tube replaced by a small solid plug of indiarubber with a flange to prevent it slipping into the sinus (see Fig. 126). The lower end of this plug should just be visible in the middle