POST-NASAL ADENOID GROWTHS. 365 should be examined with the finger and, if at all enlarged, a piece should be removed with the snare (see p. 306). Next the tonsils, if enlarged,, as they so commonly are in association with adenoids, should be removed with the guillotine. Some surgeons prefer to remove the tonsils at the commencement of the operation, but this is not to be recommended. The removal of the adenoids is more easily accomplished during the earlier and deeper stage of the anesthesia and the bleeding after tonsil- lotomy is more sudden and profuse and therefore it is better delayed until the patient shows signs of coming out of the anaesthetic. The haemorrhage during the operation is usually free, but it soon ceases. As a rule the patient swallows the blood, but, should it accumulate in the back of the pharynx during the operation, the throat may be sponged out or, better still, the patient should be rolled over on to his side and the mouth wiped out. Should blood enter the larynx or trachea, the patient must be immediately rolled over on to his face and the head lowered; if this be done in time, and the anaesthesia be not too deep, the- blood will soon be expectorated and the dyspnoea will pass off. Should the patient become cyanosed, the throat should be vigorously sponged out to excite a reflex and the finger should be pushed down into the larynx to remove any clot that may be within reach. Of course in extreme- cases the child must be inverted and artificial respiration adopted, and,, should this fail, tracheotomy will be necessary; this fortunately is an. extremely rare event. Immediately the operation is finished, the patient is rolled over on to his face, the mouth is sponged clean and the gag loosened, as the stretching of the mouth tends to maintain the haemorrhage. After-treatment.—The patient should be kept in bed for one or two days after which he may be allowed to sit up and, if fine, may go out of doors about the third or fifth day. The first food given after the operation should always be cold for fear of exciting haemorrhage, but after 24 hours in children, and certainly after 48 in adults, ordinary food may be given.. As a rule it is not well to bother the patient with any active after-treatment, but the nose and ears should always be carefully examined. At the first sign of inflammation of the drum or of increase in deafness a blister should be applied to the mastoid region and the nose should be washed out with a simple alkaline lotion (see p. 300). Moreover, if at any time a bloody or muco-purulent foetid discharge collects in the nose or throat it should be syringed away with a solution of boracic acid. Should there be any haemorrhage, an ice-cloth should be applied to the face and ice given to suck; if it be really profuse or prolonged it may be necessary to- check it by means of the tannic and gallic acid paste. Results.—The result of the operation is always or nearly always ex- tremely good. The difficulty in breathing usually disappears after a few days and the deafness, if due to Eustachian obstruction, also rapidly recovers. In some cases however these symptoms require further treat- ment. Other symptoms are more slow to go, but the habit of keeping the