MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE LOWER JAW. 227 prevent the fibrous contraction. Subsequently some form of vulcanite or other denture can be made by the dentist to fill the vacant space. These boxwood splints answer very well for the first week or two but after that time, as the part becomes filled up with fibrous tissue, they are forced out of place and contraction proceeds rapidly. Nevertheless, even if only kept in for a week or two, they are of considerable advantage. Another method by which the gap can be kept open and which in some cases is more convenient is by bridging it over with a band of nickeled steel or an ivory peg fixed into the bone on each side. Holes can be drilled on each side to receive the metal peg which is cut so that, when the ends are fixed into these holes, the gap shall be of proper width. The only trouble is that in the course of time the holes enlarge by inflam- matory action and the pegs get loose and may even fall out. As a rule however the contraction of the scar prevents them falling out if they have been buried sufficiently deeply in the jaw. Removal of the symphysis.—Excision of the central portion of the jaw alone is chiefly required when epithelioma has spread from the floor of the mouth and the periosteum has become infiltrated in the neighbour- hood of the symphysis. The removal of this portion of the jaw of course involves the complete detachment of the muscles which hold forward the tongue and this is the chief trouble in the after-treatment. The removal itself is simple enough and hardly requires description. The skin must be divided along the lower margin of the jaw for the requisite distance; the necessary teeth are extracted, the bone is sawn through on each side and the wedge is then removed with the necessary portions of the soft tissues. Before the bone is actually removed, the tip of the tongue should be seized with forceps so as to prevent it falling back and choking the patient. In all cases of removal of the symphysis it is most necessary to try to prevent the two divided surfaces coming together, as otherwise the lower jaw is hopelessly contracted and the teeth in it lie on a plane greatly posterior to those in the upper. Two nickeled steel rods, one fixed in the lower border of the jaw and the other in the upper, may be used with great advantage; if these be not handy, the insertion of a wedge of boxwood may be tried. Whichever be employed, a stitch should be put through the muscles of the tongue and fastened over the wedge or the steel pins so as to keep the tongue forwards; in the course of three or four days, when the wound is granulating and the parts are becoming consolidated, the tongue will retain its position. The best material for this stitch is silkworm-gut which does not get septic in the same way that a silk suture does. Removal of the entire jaw.—In some cases the whole of the jaw may require removal; this is done practically in the same way as above described, each half of the jaw being removed separately.