THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. 352 a mild antiseptic solution such as boracic acid. After a time other anti- septic fluids may be used, and recently formalin has been strongly recommended, but it matters very little what is used provided it be unirri- tating. To carry out this treatment properly it is necessary for the surgeon to see the patient every day for from three to six weeks, and this is one of the most obvious objections to the employment of the method. More- over it generally fails to produce other than temporary benefit. It may be that some of the successful cases are cases of suppuration in the ethmoid cells and not in the frontal sinus at all; but this can hardly be urged as an objection to the method, for if a cure results it matters nothing which cavity was affected; in either case an external operation on the frontal sinus has been avoided. In some cases of course there is danger in delaying a radical operation; namely in those in which there is caries of the posterior wall of the sinus. There is however probably very little risk when there is free communication between the sinus and the nose, and fortunately these are just the cases in which irrigation is most easy. This method of intra-nasal irrigation itself is difficult and sometimes impossible, but with great care and the avoidance of the use of force the danger of perforating the floor of the skull is probably very slight. It seems probable however that there is a real risk of infecting a healthy sinus by passing the catheter through a suppurating region in order to reach it. In all cases in which there is difficulty in entering the ,sinus it is wisest to desist, as it is never right to employ force. Methods of entering the sinus by puncture from the nose need only to be mentioned in order to be condemned. Radical treatment.—If the above treatment fails, the question arises if it is better to leave the patient alone or to perform an external operation. Unfortunately experience has shown that these operations are by no means free from danger and that they frequently fail to cure the suppura- tion. On the other hand the risk of leaving the disease alone does not seem to be great, provided free drainage be maintained. In many cases suppuration has existed for ten, twelve, or even sixteen years without affecting the patient's general health or incapacitating him from work. The frontal sinus, having a dependent opening, the discharge usually leaks away; changes in its bony walls are very seldom found and actual necrosis is very rare; and lastly cerebral complications are extremely uncommon. Therefore in cases in which no symptoms are present other than persistent nasal discharge, these facts must be clearly laid before the patient and he must decide as to operation. In these circumstances he will often decline it, in which case he should be seen from time to time so that polypi, etc., may be removed as- they occur, and free drainage maintained. In other cases, however, operation may be required for one or more of