THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. for complete clefts of the lip, some of which are figured in the accom- panying diagrams (see Figs. 60-65). We shall only describe the operations that we most commonly employ. When there is a complete cleft of the lip without any affection of the alveolus, the first step in the operation is to separate the margins of A B Fig. 59.—Operation for Simple Hare-Lip with widening of the Nostril. By carrying the incisions up into the nostril {A) the ala is brought well in as the edges of the gap are brought together (B). the cleft from the gum; on the affected side this separation must be continued until the upper border of the lip is separated from the margins of the bony nostril, the ala of the nose is thoroughly detached and the cheek sufficiently freed to allow the margins of the cleft to be approxi- mated without any tension. The edges of the cleft are then pared in the following manner: the surgeon notes on which side the cleft is most vertical, and through the other a narrow sharp-bladed knife is entered just external to the edge of the cleft and carried through the thickness of the ABC Fig. 60.—Mirault's Operation for Hare-Lip. The steps of the operation are fully described in the text. Whenever there is any undue widening of the ala, the incision must be carried well up into the nostril, even though the cleft may not extend into it. The angle at d should be more marked than it is shown here. lip directly downwards from the nostril parallel with the edge of the cleft; as it approaches the red line it is diverted obliquely outwards right through the free edge of the lip (see Fig. 60, A). This strip of mucous membrane which is angular in shape, the angle d being a little above the red line, is completely detached. The outer side of the cleft, which is usually the shorter, is pared similarly above, but just before the red line is reached, the incision is carried outwards parallel with it into the substance of the lip; this pared edge is not completely detached. The pared flap is turned down and leaves an angular raw surface a b c (see Fig. 60, B). A silkworm-