57 INTRA-CRANIAL SUPPURATION. INTRA-CRANIAL SUPPURATION RESULTING FROM DISEASE. As has been already mentioned, intra-cranial suppuration may, and perhaps most frequently does, occur in connection with disease, more especially of the middle ear and mastoid antrum. It may also, though more rarely, follow disease of the frontal sinus or the various sinuses connected with the nasal cavity. We shall here only take in detail disease of the middle ear, for that is by far the most common and most important. In all these cases the three types of intra-cranial suppuration just mentioned may be met with, namely, the extra-dural, the localised or the diffuse sub-dural, and the cerebral abscess. In middle-ear disease these complications usually occur when the mischief has been of long-standing, and only comparatively rarely in connection with an acute middle-ear suppuration. In the old-standing cases the ear and the mastoid antrum become filled with granulations and foul pus, and the disease extends from the mucous membrane to the bony walls of the cavity. Indeed, in tuber- culous cases, the disease may commence as a tuberculosis of the bone. This bone affection may extend in two directions, either upwards to the upper surface of the petrous bone about the roof of the attic, or backwards towards the groove of the lateral sinus. The bone becomes inflamed and the inflammation extends to the outer surface of the dura mater; in many cases pus ultimately forms between the latter and the bone. It is not at all uncommon to find an extra-dural abscess over the roof of the attic which may attain a fair size, and may, if the bone be perforated, in part discharge through the middle ear or the antrum. In other cases the inflammation of the dura mater may lead to adhesion of the dura to the arachnoid over the temporo-sphenoidal lobe and the formation of a localised sub-dural abscess in that position. It is not infrequently accom- panied by a certain amount of sloughing of the dura, so that the sub-dural abscess communicates with the bone. In other cases, again, the adhesions between the membranes may not be sufficient to prevent infection of the sub-dural and sub-arachnoid spaces, and a diffuse suppurative lepto-meningitis occurs. Lastly, an abscess may form in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, either as the result of direct extension along adhesions between the membranes, or by infection by bacteria probably carried along the peri-vascular spaces. These abscesses usually occur near the surface of the convolutions and may be found in any part of the lobe. When arising by direct continuity, they are generally situated about the middle of the lobe, but in other cases the infective material may spread along the peri-vascular sheaths and set up the abscess at some distance from the affected membrane. When the disease extends backwards from the antrum, the lateral sinus and the dura mater may be separated from the groove in the bone by pus which is apt to extend for a considerable distance along this groove both backwards and downwards. Under such circumstances also the vein becomes inflamed and ultimately thrombosed; this thrombus may become