224 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS. the final division of the transverse cut is best effected by a chisel. Access to the part may be gained in various ways according to circumstances. In most cases it is best to carry a curved incision along the lower margin of the jaw and to turn a flap upwards ; in some however it may be more convenient, both for the operation on the bone and also for the operation on the tongue, or whatever other part the disease is spreading from, to split the cheek outwards towards the masseter. The various incisions required for these cases will be described either presently in speaking of excision of the lower jaw or later on in speaking of diseases of the tongue and floor of the mouth. The point which we wish to emphasise here is that whenever possible a bridge of bone should be left intact connecting the anterior and posterior parts of the jaw, and this is usually most con- veniently done by an incision below the jaw and turning up the tissues over it. Tumours growing elsewhere than in the alveolus usually require removal of the affected portion of the jaw, and, according to the extent and seat of the tumour, the following operations may be required : 1. Excision of one-half of the jaw. 2. Excision of the horizontal ramus or portions of it on one side of the angle. 3. Excision of the symphysis. 4. Excision of the entire jaw. Removal of one-half of the lower jaw.—The patient is propped up by pillows beneath the shoulders, the head allowed to hang back over a sandbag and turned towards the sound side. Chloroform should be administered; tracheotomy is unnecessary unless the growth extends beyond the limits of the lower jaw and involves a very extensive operation. The incision is commenced in front of the chin about an inch above the symphysis (see Fig. 78). It is then carried downwards to about half an inch below the lower margin of the jaw and along the bone at this distance below it till the angle is reached, when it is curved upwards over the posterior border of the jaw, as far up as will safely avoid the facial nerve. This incision is deepened until the bone is fully exposed; the facial vessels will be seen and should be clamped and divided. The flap is rapidly raised from the jaw, the masseter muscle being taken up with it, unless it be involved in the disease, when of course it must be left behind. The raising of the flap is continued until the mucous membrane is reached, but at this stage the cavity of the mouth should not be opened. The soft parts are next separated from the inner surface of the jaw, the mylo-hyoid and the internal pterygoid muscles being divided and the latter peeled up, unless it be infiltrated too. Here also the incision should be carried up to the mucous membrane, but not through it, and up to this point there will be no trouble from blood running into the pharynx ; any vessel bleeding externally can be clamped and twisted if necessary. An incisor tooth on the affected side is now extracted and the bone is