BENIGN TUMOURS. 439 Of angiomata.—As these tumours usually involve a considerable depth of the laryngeal tissues, they are best left alone unless they give rise to serious symptoms. Should haemorrhage occur, it must be arrested by applying the galvano-cautery to the bleeding spots. Should repeated haemorrhages occur, it will be well to perform thyrotomy, opening the larynx, if possible, at a distance from the seat of the growth. Removal, if possible, is then accomplished, otherwise electrolysis may be used as for angiomata in other situations (see Part L, p. 266). Of chondromata.—These cases frequently call for tracheotomy, which should be followed by thyrotomy, and the entire growth with the cartilage from which it springs should be cut away. Of lipomata.—These growths, usually springing from the epiglottis, can be brought into view by means of the tongue-depressor and completely removed with an ordinary nasal snare. MALIGNANT TUMOURS. Both carcinoma and sarcoma are met with, the former being by far the commoner. It usually takes the form of a squamous-celled epithelioma, but glandular carcinoma is not unknown. Epitheliomata most frequently commence on the vocal cords or on the ventricular bands, but may be met with on any part of the larynx. Sarcomata more often commence in the infra-glottic region, while glandular carcinoma is most common in the epiglottis. The most valuable classification of cancer of the larynx from the point of view of treatment is into intrinsic and extrinsic growths. Intrinsic growths are those in which the vocal cords and ventricular bands or the parts below are involved. In this situation the growth increases extremely slowly, displays little tendency to spread beyond the limits of the larynx, glandular involvement is extremely rare, and only occurs very late in the disease; secondary growths are almost unknown. At the same time the growth from its situation produces hoarseness at an early stage, and, later, dyspnoea, so that the attention is drawn to its presence, and consequently both early diagnosis and early treatment become possible. Extrinsic laryngeal growths are those involving the epiglottis, the ary- tenoids, or the ary-epiglottic folds. They may commence in these parts or may spread from the surrounding regions, and especially common is a growth spreading from the lateral or anterior walls of the pharynx on to the arytenoids. The growth usually spreads rapidly over a large surface. Glandular enlargement occurs early, in fact, quite commonly a large hard mass of malignant glands in the neck is the first symptom to attract the patient's attention, and the case often comes under observation too late to admit of radical treatment. Treatment.—The treatment of the two classes of cases is essentially different; in the intrinsic cases, there is always the possibility of complete