THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. 244 first spasm has passed off, can breathe fairly freely as long as he remains quiet, although respiration is usually somewhat noisy and rattling. As soon, however, as he exerts himself or coughs, the foreign body is driven up against the glottis and sets up fresh spasm. This condition is not common however as, if the body be small enough to pass into the trachea, it generally becomes impacted in a bronchus which it blocks either partially or completely according to its shape and size. If, however, the body be sharp, it may become impacted in the trachea; in one case in which we operated a piece of bone had remained there for years, giving rise to stenosis which had been looked upon as syphilitic. A foreign body impacted in a bronchus generally causes partial or entire collapse of the corresponding lung. It acts as a ball-valve, preventing air entering on inspiration, but allowing a certain amount to escape on expiration until the collapse becomes complete. A foreign body thus impacted gives rise to inflammation in the bronchus around it, whilst the collapsed portion of the lung is very likely to become the seat of pneumonia. The inflammation around the foreign body may gradually loosen it, and after some days a recurrence of the laryngeal spasm may indicate that it is again loose and has been projected up against the glottis. In other cases again an abscess may form and may burst into the trachea, so that the patient coughs up large quantities of pus, or it may burst into the pleura, when it is followed by empyema, or into the mediastinum, in which case it may give rise to fatal cellulitis. Treatment.—Any foreign body, whether it gives rise to immediate serious symptoms or whether it has become impacted and is accompanied by less serious symptoms, should invariably be removed if possible. The methods of removing it vary of course with the nature of the foreign body, with its situation and with the symptoms it produces. (a) Of foreign bodies in the larynx.—Whenever there is urgent dyspncea, and particularly in children, tracheotomy should be performed as soon as the case is seen. In adults, if there be no marked dyspnoea and if the patient be tolerant of intra-laryngeal manipulations, an attempt may be made to remove the foreign body with forceps, if it can be seen on laryngoscopic examination. The pharynx and larynx are thoroughly ansesthetised by spraying with cocaine and brushing the aperture of the glottis over with the drug, and then the situation and character of the body are ascertained by a laryngoscope. Suitable laryngeal forceps, guided by a laryngoscopic mirror, may then be introduced and the body ex- tracted as gently as possible. In children an attempt may be made to extract the body with forceps guided to the larynx by the finger, but in them it will usually be safer to perform a preliminary high tracheotomy (see p. 248). In all cases where the above methods fail, or where they cannot be employed owing to the situation or the nature of the foreign body, thyrotomy should be performed ; indeed, in the majority of cases calling for tracheotomy,