THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. 240 When a tracheotomy has not been done, the question of the feasibility of completely closing the opening into the air-passages is not so simple, and will depend largely upon the nature of the injury. Should this be extensive and should the wound be closed in the manner just described, considerable emphysema is likely to occur and in addition there may be oedema of the glottis or even haemorrhage into the larynx causing con- siderable embarrassment to respiration; septic pneumonia is also likely to follow. Hence, with very few exceptions, we strongly recommend that tracheotomy should be done in all cases of cut throat, a tube introduced and, for the first few hours at any rate, the communication between the larynx and the trachea cut off, either by the employment of one of the special tubes mentioned (see p. 238) or by packing with gauze. When this is done, the wound in the air-passages may be closed without hesitation. The use of the tracheotomy tube is still more important when the superior laryngeal nerve has been wounded, because the resulting anaesthesia of the glottis hinders the patient from coughing, and food or septic discharges may pass into the air-passages and give rise to a very fatal form of pneumonia. In these cases a Hahn's or Trendelenburg's tube should be used until healing has occurred, and should be changed twice daily. The wound is dressed in the usual manner and it is advisable at the end of the operation to employ an infusion of saline solution, followed if necessary by subcutaneous injections of strychnine and digitaline (see Part I., p. 140) to combat the shock, which is often profound and is due partly to the injury, partly to the loss of blood, and partly to the patient's general enfeebled condition before the attempt at suicide. After-treatment.—The patient should be put to bed with the head bent well forward on to the sterum, so as to take off all tension from the wound. The head may be flexed by a large firm pillow beneath it and prevented from rotating by sandbags on each side. In addition, if the patient be restless, a firm bandage may be applied around the head, from the front of which long strips pass down to be fastened to the foot or sides of the bed. For the first few hours at any rate it is advisable to tie the patient's hands to the sides of the bed, and the case must be watched night and day to restrain the restlessness and particularly to see that the patient does not tear off the bandages. The bed should be surrounded with a tent containing a steam-kettle, to the vapour of which terebene or eucalyptus is added. The use of a steam-kettle however is open to much discussion, a good many surgeons considering that these cases do better without it. In any case, a thin layer of gauze wrung out of warm water and sprinkled with terebene should be placed over the orifice of the tracheotomy tube and fresh terebene or eucalyptus oil should be dropped on it from time to time so as to keep up a constant antiseptic inhalation. The administration of some sedative, such as bromide of potassium and chloral, or if this fail, the hypodermic injection of hyoscine hydro- bromide (gr. is generally necessary on account of the patient's