408 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE EAR. of the aditus. If facial paralysis is found immediately after the opera- tion it usually implies a severe injury, perhaps complete division of the nerve, and recovery rarely ensues, but some improvement may be obtained by the use of the faradic current and facial massage. When paralysis supervenes three or four days after the operation it is usually incomplete and under appropriate treatment will pass off in a few days or weeks. The external semicircular canal may also be wounded should the chisel slip when completing the operation. It lies on the posterior wall of the aditus just above the aqueduct. After-treatment.—In most cases the packing may remain untouched for three to five days when it should be removed, the parts cleansed by syringing with boracic lotion and the plug and dressing re-applied. The post-aural wound commonly heals by first intention and the sutures may be removed about the seventh day, but the packing must be continued for three or four weeks. At the end of this time all the exposed bone should be covered by fine healthy granulations and the epithelium from the meatus beginning to grow over. The packing may now be discontinued and the ear treated by daily syringing, drying and the insufflation of boracic acid. If the discharge diminishes, this treatment may be continued, but should exuberant granulations form accompanied by discharge it is better to resume the packing. Healing is usually complete in from two months in children to from three to five months in adults, when the entire surface of the wound becomes covered by smooth glistening epithelium and all discharge ceases. Should large granulations occur at any spot they may require to be dealt with in the way already recommended by means of the application of caustics (see p. 397), but if exuberant and frequently recurring the existence of a carious patch of bone may be suspected, and it may be necessary to give the patient an anaesthetic and to thoroughly curette the part. Results.—In the majority of cases the results of this operation are ex- tremely good. In about eighty per cent, complete healing and cessation of the discharge occurs and in the remainder all fear of dangerous com- plications is at an end. The most troublesome cases are those associated with the formation of cholesteatomata and those in which tuberculous disease is present. Sometimes however exfoliation of the newly formed epithelium takes place and masses accumulate in the deeper parts which require to be syringed away from time to time. If this be not done they set up irritation and a condition resembling acute eczema, which may be accompanied by a considerable amount of discharge. This usually yields readily to cleansing by irrigation with boracic lotion, drying, and powdering with boracic powder. The results as regards the hearing power vary. In some cases it is improved; in the majority it is unaffected and in a very few the hearing is made worse or may even be completely destroyed. Even where both ears are affected therefore there need be no hesitation in performing this