62 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. below the temporal ridge, which can always be identified, and the incision should be deepened steadily above and anteriorly into the auditory meatus so as to avoid the risk of wounding the lateral sinus or the dura mater (see Fig. 15, B). Less bone should be removed as the opening is deepened. When the antral cavity is reached, it can at once be identified by passing into it a bent probe, which should run forwards and slightly upwards into the middle ear. The opening should be sufficiently enlarged to allow the whole of the interior of the antrum to be scraped out, and the next step consists in dividing the bridge of bone left between the cavity and the external auditory meatus (see Fig. 15, C). This is best done with a very fine chisel; it should be used extremely gently, a bent probe being passed meanwhile from the cavity of the antrum through the attic into the middle ear, and this will both serve as a guide and help to protect the facial nerve from injury. When the granulations are being scraped out, great care must be taken not to use force, as the roof of the attic may be actually destroyed, and the granulations may spring from the under surface of the dura mater, and a risk 'may be run of perforating the latter, and causing septic infection of the sub-dural space. Another structure that may also be injured in this manner, unless care be taken, is the facial nerve. This structure usually lies in a bony canal, but it is not uncommon to find this either incomplete or actually eroded by the inflammatory processes, so that the facial nerve is surrounded by a mass of granulations. If the nerve be exposed, it is generally easy, by touching it with a probe, to produce twitching of the face. The nerve should run no risk during the removal of the outer wall of the antrum, if care be taken not to deepen the incision unduly below; too low an incision will certainly damage it. One of the principal difficulties in this operation is that blood wells up freely into the funnel-shaped cavity and obscures the view. This is best obviated by packing the cavity with a narrow strip of gauze by means of sinus forceps, and rapidly removing it, when a clear view is obtained. A number of strips of gauze of suitable size and width should always be kept handy during the operation. After the granulations have been scraped away, the wound is carefully dried, and, with a bent probe, the walls of the cavity are examined in-all directions for the presence of a sinus leading either into the sub-dural space or backwards to the lateral sinus groove. If a connection with the sub-dural space be found over the roof of the attic, the bone must be carefully scraped away so as to permit free drainage, and at the same time to ascertain whether there is any collection of pus between the dura and the bone. Should there be a communication backwards to the lateral sinus, the bone must be freely opened up, so as to expose the latter. The ossicles are removed as in the operation for the chronic cases (see Div. II.). When the cerebral symptoms are quite indefinite the operation may