146 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. ear. Failing this, they may be obtained from over the lower jaw or the neck. The flap must be larger than seems requisite at first so as to allow for contraction which might otherwise cause displacement of the lips or eyelids. When there is destruction of the whole thickness of the cheek, the case is much more serious. This may be caused by severe injuries, such as gunshot wounds, by operations for the removal of tumours, or after disease, such as cancrum oris, in which there is extensive destruc- tion of the cheek and the neighbouring parts; the latter is one of the commonest causes of the defect and has already been fully described (see Part L, p. 80). In the great majority of cases the disease leads to difficulty in opening the mouth and often indeed to its complete closure; this may be due to cicatricial contraction of the mucous membrane of the cheek, to fibrous union between the jaws posteriorly, or to infiltration of the masseter with inflammatory material. The last condition is very serious and may complicate either of the others. Hence the treatment of these cases depends rather upon the closure of the jaws than upon the actual loss of the cheek tissues. The latter is fairly easily repaired, but that is of little advantage unless the fixation of the jaws be also overcome. It is quite exceptional to find merely a defect at the angle of the mouth without any marked limitation of the movements of the jaw. It must be remembered also that a somewhat similar closure of the jaws may result from operations in which extensive portions of the cheek —particularly the mucous membrane—have been removed, and the remedial procedures here are essentially the same, but the plastic operation should be proceeded with forthwith; it is easier to keep the mouth open and prevent contraction while the flaps are uniting than to force the jaws open afterwards. In cases due to disease, on the other hand, it is well not to be in too great a hurry to operate; patients recovering from cancrum oris usually remain very ansemic for a long time during which failure of union is very apt to occur. All sorts of defects may be met with in the cheeks, but we may classify them into four chief types: (1) A defect without closure of the jaws; (2) a small defect with plenty of skin left, but closure of the jaws; (3) a large defect with no sound skin, and with complete closure of the jaws; (4) extensive and irremedial closure of the jaws. 1. A small defect without closure of the jaws.—Here two flaps may be provided for the closure of the opening, a deep one with its cutaneous surface looking inwards towards the mouth and taking the place of the mucous membrane, and a superficial one with its raw surface applied to that of the deeper flap and its skin surface looking outwards (see Fig. 48). The first thing is to commence by paring the edges of the opening so as to leave a broad surface for the attachment of the flaps, which as a rule can be obtained from over the lower part of the masseter muscle. A flap, with its