AFFECTIONS OF EXTERNAL AUDITORY MEATUS. CIRCUMSCRIBED INFLAMMATION or FURUNCLE. I ur uncles are most commonly seen in the cartilaginous portion of the meatus and have a great tendency to recur periodically. The exciting cause is that of boils in general, namely, the entrance of micro-organisms and consequent inflammation in the sebaceous glands. The predisposing causes are usually indefinite. Symptoms.—The affection commences with intense pain in the ear followed by tenderness and swelling of the meatus, tragus and sometimes of the parts in front of, behind, and below the ear. The constitutional disturbance is often severe, and the case may resemble an acute mastoid abscess. After a few days the swelling in the meatus becomes localised, points and bursts; there is a little discharge or bleeding and the pain quickly subsides. This is the general mode of termination, but in a few cases the boil apparently disappears without rupture, or more commonly the inflammation partly subsides and again recurs. Treatment.—The best mode of treatment, if the patient be willing to submit, is an incision into the most prominent part of the swelling, which will give immediate relief to the pain even if no pus be evacuated. This little operation may be performed with any narrow-bladed knife, such as a tenotomy knife, under good illumination, and being intensely painful should always be performed under nitrous oxide anaesthesia. The meatus should then be syringed out with a hot solution of boracic acid, the ear and the surrounding parts bathed with hot water, and a piece of boracic lint wrung out of boiling water applied over the ear. These syringings and fomentations should be frequently repeated, every hour if the pain be severe, and will soon give relief. They should be continued until all the acute symptoms have subsided. In the less severe cases, or when the patient refuses incision, a blister may be applied over the mastoid region, or leeches used ; the latter give relief more quickly. In an adult two leeches should be applied in front of the tragus, one below and one behind the ear. These should be followed by syringing with hot' boracic lotion and the application of boracic fomentations. When the acute symptoms have passed off, the following should be used : 9 Ung. hydiarg. nitratis, - - - ■ 3'' Paroleini, ) 01. amygdalse, / A few drops to be warmed and poured into the ear from a teaspoon twice daily. This is especially useful when there is a tendency to frequent recurrence or when the inflammation does not completely resolve. It also allays the irritation which is commonly present in the meatus after the attack. Constitutional remedies may also be called for. At the commence- ment a brisk purge is often useful, and narcotics may be required to allay the pain. Any predisposing cause must be sought for and removed,