2o8 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS. gums in connection with the administration of drugs or some dyspeptic condition. The ulceration however is, in the first instance, limited to the gum in immediate contact with the teeth ; on pressure on the gum, pus may be pressed up from between it and a tooth. It is usually due to an accumulation of tartar and a certain amount of septic infection between the gums and the teeth. Treatment.—This is best carried out by a dentist; it consists in the thorough removal of all tartar, in carefully cleaning out the pus from between the gum and the teeth, and the introduction of tannin and eucalyptus oil once or twice a day. OSTEITIS AND PERIOSTITIS. The inflammatory affections of the jaws may take the form of limited periostitis, suppurative osteitis, or a more diffuse form leading to necrosis. PERIOSTITIS.—The limited thickenings of the jaw not due to specific infections, such as syphilis or actinomycosis, generally arise in connection with the teeth and are sometimes somewhat difficult to diagnose from tumours. There is usually a little suppuration of the base of the tooth but that is not absolutely essential. In any case the thickening rapidly disappears on removal of the carious tooth. ALVEOLAR ABSCESS.—The most common inflammatory affection of the jaws is limited suppurative osteitis, which goes by the name of an alveolar abscess. Alveolar abscess is a suppuration occurring around the fangs of a tooth which is usually carious; the pus so formed may in some rare cases escape between the neck of the tooth and the jaw, but it more often leads to the formation of an abscess cavity in the bone which gradually approaches the surface. In the majority of cases it reaches the surface beneath the gum and leads to what is popularly known as a " gumboil." In other cases, however, where the fang is long and the abscess consequently more deeply seated in the body of the jaw, the pus reaches the surface of the bone lower down and may lead to adhesion of the cheek to the jaw and to the formation of a subcutaneous abscess. When an abscess of this kind forms in the lower jaw, it frequently occurs quite at the lower margin and is sometimes mistaken for a sup- purating gland; when the abscess is opened, however, a probe will be found to pass upwards into a narrow channel in the bone itself from which the pus is escaping. In an alveolar abscess in the upper jaw the pus may make its way into the antrum and cause suppuration there. In the milder forms there is no necrosis, but in some cases the inflammation may be much more severe and is then followed by limited or even extensive necrosis; this is perhaps most often the case when the suppuration occurs in connection with an impacted wisdom tooth. Treatment.—In the treatment of alveolar abscess the removal of the tooth is in almost all cases essential, and not infrequently, if the pus has