325 TUBERCULOSIS OF THE NOSE. to excoriation of the mucous membrane and small haemorrhages as in rhinitis sicca. When a sequestrum is present it must always be removed. This may usually be effected by grasping it with a pair of ordinary nasal or polypus forceps, but when the piece is too large to be extracted easily through the anterior nares, it is necessary to crush it by means of a strong pair of forceps or to reduce it in size by clipping off small fragments with scissors or Griinwald's forceps. These sequestra are often composed of very dense bone. INHERITED SYPHILIS.—This appears at first as a simple muco- purulent catarrh in the noses of infants from one to two months old, and at first cannot be distinguished from a simple catarrh. It soon, however, becomes more purulent, the nose becoming obstructed and the breathing noisy, giving rise to the name " snuffles" by which the disease is most commonly known. If the condition be neglected, it may lead to very serious consequences; the septum, the nasal bones and the mucous mem- brane may become extensively destroyed, and the bridge of the nose may collapse, giving rise later on to the typical " saddle-backed" nose. Treatment.—The treatment must be both local and constitutional. The latter need not be alluded to here (see Part I., p. 236), but it is very essential to cut short the disease in the nose as rapidly as possible, and nothing is so efficacious for this purpose as systematic syringing. This must always be carried out by the surgeon or by a properly trained nurse, and it is best to use a mild non-poisonous antiseptic solution such as boracic acid, sanitas, or permanganate of potash lotion (see p. 297). The nose must be syringed regularly twice daily until all the discharge has ceased. At the same time the feeding of the infant must be carefully conducted. It is usually necessary to give food with a spoon, as, on account of the complete nasal obstruction, there is consider- able difficulty in suckling. TUBERCULOSIS OF THE NOSE. This may occur as a large tuberculous tumour, usually attached to the cartilaginous septum, but it is more common in the form of lupus. Symptoms.—Lupus of the nose is generally associated with a similar affection of the neighbouring skin or of the pharynx and larynx. As a rule it presents no very characteristic points, but a slowly progressive chronic ulceration accompanied by somewhat profuse pale granulations which may almost entirely obstruct the nostril should always excite sus- picion. It most commonly appears first on the septum whence it may spread to the floor of the nose and to the inferior turbinate. It is much more common in the inferior meatus, but any part of the nose may be attacked. In places cicatricial processes are at work simultaneously with the spread of the ulceration. It is very rare for necrosis of bone to occur, but perforation of the cartilaginous septum is not uncommon, and