l8o THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. after an otherwise perfectly satisfactory operation are excessive crying,, vomiting, or mechanical violence produced by hard food, fingers or foreign bodies thrust against the flaps. It is well to remember that, unless union fails throughout the whole palate, the gap left after limited failure of union is diminished very con- siderably in the course of time by the granulations springing up around the hole. This is especially the case in the soft palate. Treatment.—The treatment in cases where union seems doubtful is of course largely prophylactic, and every precaution must be taken in the way of careful operation and after-treatment to see that nothing interferes with union. Any intercurrent affection, such as a cold, should receive careful attention. If, when the wound is examined, there be any doubt as to the amount of union present, the stitches should not be removed for a fortnight or three weeks. Should failure of union occur at any part, it is well to wait until the edges are freely granulating and then, after administering an. anaesthetic, to introduce fresh sutures and draw the flaps together once more, if necessary freeing them sufficiently to allow them to come together without tension. It is not generally necessary to actually pare the edges when introducing stitches for the second time although it may be advisable to scrape the granulating edges slightly. These second stitches should be left in for at least a fortnight. If this secondary union fails, it is well to- delay further operative interference for a period of at least six months, so as to allow complete cicatrisation and contraction to take place. The subsequent operation consists in paring the edges of the defect, making lateral incisions for the relief of tension and then bringing the edges together. Unfortunately if the union fails in the soft palate the contraction leads to shortening of the palate so that secondary operations seldom avail to bring about a perfect result. Hence every possible care should be taken to secure union in the first operation. Voice Training.—After any operation for cleft palate it is necessary for the patient to undergo a careful and often prolonged course of vocal training in order to get rid of the nasal twang which has already been acquired, and which if not treated is likely to persist. The movements of the soft palate are also greatly benefited by training of this kind; nose breathing is most important and should be taught regularly. Mechanical treatment.—In some cases the surgeon may conclude that closure of the gap is unlikely to lead to any practical benefit. Such cases are those in which the cleft is very wide and there are not sufficient soft parts to close it, where the soft palate is so rudimentary as to be practically absent, where the failure of former operations has left a shrunken soft palate or where the case does not come under observation until the patient has attained adult life. Under these circumstances there is practically no hope of anything like a good result from operation, the palate being so short that the nasal voice and trouble in feeding continue. Under such circumstances, the patient will be more comfortable with an obturator than with a partially