210 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE JAW'S. opening. The mucous membrane over the abscess should be incised from the mouth, a pair of sinus forceps passed down the outer surface of the bone to the lowest point of the cavity and a| suitable incision made through the skin, taking care to avoid injury to branches of the facial nerve: a drainage tube is then pulled by the forceps into the cavity which is washed out frequently with antiseptic solutions. This treatment must be continued until the necrosed bone is loose* which usually will be in from six weeks to two months, according to the situation and extent of the necrosis. Here, as elsewhere, the sequestrum becomes enclosed in a bony sheath, so that, even when the greater part of the jaw has necrosed the bone may be more or less completely repro- duced by the periosteal new growth. So long as the patient keeps well, it is advisable not to be in too great a hurry to remove the necrosed portion, because it preserves the shape of the jaw and so allows proper reproduction of the bone, whereas, if removed before sufficient periosteal new formation has occurred, the new jaw becomes misshapen. In fact, if the necrosed fragment be removed before enough new bone has been formed to leave a firm jaw, it is well to try by introducing stuffing or a piece of boxwood to keep the jaw in its natural form until enough new bone has been produced. The removal of the necrosed fragment is usually comparatively simple and can generally be carried out from the mouth. By enlarging the open- ing in the mucous membrane leading down to the sequestrum and, if necessary, dividing any bridge of bone which interferes with its easy exit, the fragment can generally be seized with forceps and extracted. It is only in rare cases that an external opening is required. As in other cases, care must be taken that all the necrosed bone is removed and that no spicules are left behind. No dressing is necessary except possibly a temporary plug of iodoform gauze if there be oozing, but this should not be kept in for more than a few hours as it becomes extremely foetid. The mouth should be washed out frequently with the ordinary antiseptic mouth-washes and the drainage tube introduced into the cavity from out- side should be retained until the sinus closes, which it usually does very rapidly. The patient should in the first instance be kept on liquids or on semi-solid food. In these cases the tendency to closure of the jaw, associated with necrosis in the neighbourhood of the ascending ramus, must be borne in mind and steps must be taken to counteract it. As soon therefore as the necrosed fragment is removed, the mouth should be forced open by a wedge placed between the teeth on the sound side provided the new bone be sufficiently firm, and active and passive movements should be encouraged repeatedly during the day. The patient should sleep with the wedge in the mouth; it must of course be secured so that it cannot slip out.