THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. 272 signs to indicate the size of the cavity. The anterior wall of the sinus is usually from two to three millimeters thick, but varies considerably in different skulls: this wall contains a slight but definite amount of diploe. The posterior wall is usually very thin, composed of dense, brittle bone with no cancelli; it is indented on its posterior surface with the convolu- tions of the frontal lobe of the brain. The inferior wall of the sinus is the most -important, and consists of two portions,—the outer, or orbital, forming part of the roof of the orbit, and the inner, or nasal, formed by the roofs of some of the anterior ethmoidal cells. The orbital portion is thin, contains no diploe, is perforated near, its inner end by a small vein, and is the most usual seat of tenderness and bulging in cases of suppuration in the sinus. The nasal portion of the floor forms a very irregular surface. The bone is extremely thin and commonly gives way in disease : consequently frontal sinus suppuration is almost invariably, if not constantly, associated with suppuration in some of the anterior ethmoidal cells. In the posterior part of this portion of the floor is a rounded or oval opening leading into the infundibulum. The septum between the two sinuses is often considerably deflected from the median line, and one sinus may actually overlap the other, and thus, in an attempt to reach a sinus near the middle line above the supra-orbital margin, the sinus on the opposite side may actually be exposed. The infundibulum is a curved canal running downwards and back- wards from the ostium of the frontal sinus, and generally terminating in the anterior end of the hiatus semilunaris, but sometimes opening into the upper part of the middle meatus (see Fig. 90). In the former case the canal is convex forwards and downwards and is generally tortuous; in the latter case it is much shorter and often nearly straight. The ethmoidal cells are situated in the lateral masses of the ethmoid bone, above and external to the middle turbinate, and are bounded above by the cribriform plate, and externally by the lamina papyracea (see Figs. 91, 92, 95-98). The cells vary in size and number, and are never symmetrical. Generally speaking they are larger below and posteriorly, and smaller and more numerous above and anteriorly. It must be remembered that all their walls are extremely thin and easily broken down, and that they are separated from the orbit and from the cranial cavity by extremely thin plates of bone. They may be divided into three groups of cells—posterior, middle, and anterior. The posterior group consists of from one to four large cells with comparatively large ostia opening into the superior meatus; the middle ethmoidal cells form a group of from four to six opening into the middle meatus of the nose, usually high up under the middle turbinate, or more rarely into the posterior part of the hiatus semilunaris; the anterior set comprises a group of small cells opposite the lachrymal bone, and surrounding the infundibulum, into which they generally open. As already said, these anterior cells form the nasal portion of the inferior wall of the frontal sinus, and, surgically, they are best