97 WOUNDS. must be taken to clean the wound thoroughly and to remove any foreign body from it; in the cases of which we have spoken it may even be necessary to remove a portion of the edges of the wound. This procedure has the advantage that, besides removing the colouring matter, it at the same time favours healing by first intention. Suturing.—The question of how best to avoid stitch-marks has already been discussed (see Part L, p. 154). By the employment of the subcutaneous suture there described, reinforced by the use of strips of gauze fixed on the skin with collodion, the edges may be brought into accurate apposition without any stitch-marks being left. ' Should the condition of the wound demand the introduction of ordinary skin stitches, these should consist of the finest horsehair and should be introduced with a very fine Hagedorn needle close to the margin of the wound. Only the fewest possible stitches should be introduced, the approximation of the intermediate portions of the wound being effected by strips of gauze (see Part I., p. 154). When the wound is contused, it is often better not to introduce stitches at all, or at most to employ only one or two to keep the edges in fair apposition, the actual approximation being effected by the strips of gauze referred to above. Outside the wound a small gauze dressing should be fastened on with collodion; if there be much oozing, a larger dressing may be fastened on outside this with a bandage for the first 24 hours, after which it may be left off and the small collodion dressing alone employed. Complications.—Bleeding from these wounds usually stops either spon- taneously or after very gentle sponge pressure or douching with iced water, and it is only necessary 'to apply a ligature when the larger vessels are wounded. When the fecial nerve has been divided it is difficult to repair the injury unless the nerve has been cut before it breaks up into branches. These branches are delicate filaments which it is practically impossible to find or to unite, and the best that can be done under the circumstances is to hring the edges of the wound as accurately together as possible, in the hope that some of the divided filaments may thereby be brought into apposition and may unite. The other important complication, namely, injury to S/enson's duct, will be treated of separately in connection with the injuries to the parotid gland. SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. The face is a favourite seat of syphilitic lesions, which may be met with in all the stages of the disease. Primary sores may occur about the lips or the eye-lids, while secondary syphilitic eruptions are common on the forehead in the neighbourhood of the hair. Tertiary syphilitic lesions, either in the form of a nodular syphilide or gummatous disease, are frequently met with about the forehead and the nose. The gummata are most common in connection with disease of the frontal bone, and there is usually also ulceration of the skin over them. pt. v. o