284 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. The use of oils.—Oily solutions are often prescribed and may be applied by means of a good atomiser or by means of a small camel's hair brush; the latter is generally used if it be desired to make the applica- tion to the anterior part of the nasal septum only; in other cases it is better to use the atomiser. A good basis for these preparations is almond oil or paroleine, to which may be added various medicaments, such as eucalyptus oil (one part to twenty), unguentum hydrarg. nitrat. (one part to six), morphinae sulphatis (two to four grains to the ounce), menthol (grains xv. to the ounce), etc., as circumstances require. When it is desired to apply any ointment to the nose, it is better to soften it with almond oil or paroleine so that it may be applied in a similar way. Inhalations and insufflations are very rarely used in nasal diseases, and therefore the methods of prescribing and using them will be described later in connection with diseases of the larynx (q.v.). NASAL ANAESTHESIA. Cocaine and eucaine.—A large number of minor intra-nasal operations can be performed under local anaesthesia. The best drug for this purpose is the hydrochlorate of cocaine, which is used in 5°/0 or io°/0 solution, or occasionally 2o°/0 may be required. It is best and most convenient to prepare the solution freshly each time, using cocaine tabloids. The drug in solution is apt to undergo decomposition, but it can be kept for a con- siderable time in a 2o°/0 solution with the addition of some preservative such as salicylic acid (gr. x. ad or by dissolving it in camphor water. It is best applied by first spraying the interior of the nose with one gentle fine spray, and then the part to be operated upon should be packed all round with small pledgets of wool soaked in the solution. Great care should be taken to prevent any of the cocaine running down into the throat and being swallowed, and therefore immediately after placing the pledgets in position the patient's head should be bent strongly forward. After about ten minutes the anaesthesia is usually sufficient, and will last for from five to ten minutes. Besides its anaesthetic effect, cocaine produces vascular collapse of the erectile tissue and marked shrinking up of the mucous membrane, and thus greatly facilitates operations by diminishing haemorrhage and increasing the roominess of the nasal fossae. For these reasons how- ever, in certain cases, such as hypertrophy of the inferior turbinate, in which it is desired to remove pieces with the snare, the use of cocaine sometimes increases the difficulty of the operation by diminishing the size of the part to be removed. In children cocaine must be employed with great care, a solution of 2, 4 or 5°/0 being as much as it is safe to use. Latterly eucaine has been used in place of cocaine. It apparently takes a little longer than cocaine to produce anaesthesia, but its effect is a little more lasting. It does not produce such marked shrinking of the nasal mucous membrane, and it is said not to produce the toxic effects of cocaine,