342 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. devised appliances. The irrigation should be repeated twice daily until the discharge lessens considerably, then once daily. If after a time no discharge is seen, the irrigation may be omitted for a few days, and if then no pus be found the tube may be removed, and the hole allowed to close. Should this simple method succeed in greatly reducing the amount of the discharge but fail to produce a cure, the dry treatment may be tried. Having washed out the discharge any lotion remaining in the cavity is drawn off by using the syringe as an aspirator, and then a little dry powder, such as boracic or iodoform powder or a mixture of equal parts of the two, is insufflated. This treatment is repeated daily and occasionally, though it rarely is successful in producing a cure after irriga- tion alone has failed. The advantages of the method of alveolar puncture are that after a day or two the irrigation may be safely entrusted to the patient, who rarely experiences any trouble in carrying it out, and thus it may easily be con- tinued for a prolonged period; that the extraction of the carious teeth is always advisable as they may be a source of irritation to the antrum even if they are not the actual cause of the trouble; that the antrum is opened at its lowest point; and that the operation is easy, especially if the puncture be made through the socket of the first or second molar. Another advantage is that no ill effects follow the operation; the only trouble ever met with is haemorrhage; this may arise from extraction of the tooth or from the drilling of the antrum, and if troublesome can be controlled by pressure or by packing the wound. The method has the disadva?itages of establishing a communication between the antrum and the mouth, which provides a possible entrance for sepsis or for particles of food into the antrum, and moreover the plug may interfere with mastication, but these latter objections may be prevented by a suitable adjustment of the tube. Further, the pus entering the mouth gives rise to an unpleasant taste and may, if swallowed, upset the patient's digestion. Fig. 122.—Lichtwitz's Trochar and Cannula. (2) From the inferior meatus.—When no carious teeth or vacant spaces are present and the case is obviously of nasal origin, puncture from the inferior meatus of the nose should be performed. The nose is anaesthetised by packing a large pledget of wool soaked in a solution of cocaine (see p. 284) beneath the inferior turbinate. A small trochar and cannula, such as Lichtwitz's (see Fig. 122) is passed into the inferior meatus, and is directed strongly outwards about half an inch behind the anterior extremity of the inferior turbinate so as to bring it in contact with the antro-meatal septum at its thinnest part, the trochar being concealed