THE PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE FACE. The after-treatment consists in daily passive motion begun about the third day, if necessary under an anaesthetic. The mouth must be washed out several times a day with a non-irritating antiseptic solution such as sanitas, and the movement of the jaw must be persisted in for a long time. We must confess that our experience of this procedure after cancrum oris is very discouraging. In children the loose portion of the jaw becomes drawn back and gets firmly united with the posterior part by strong fibrous adhesions, while the line of the teeth becomes displaced inwards so that the patient cannot bite. At the same time the operation affords the only chance of improving this very distressing deformity. DEFORMITIES OF THE EYELIDS. ECTROPION.—The chief deformity of the eyelids which comes under the notice of the general surgeon is ectropion, especially of the lower lid, due to cicatricial contraction. This may result from burns, lupus, syphilis, A b c Fig. 50.—Operations for Ectropion of the Lower Eyelid. The operaiion shown in A is suitable for use when the ectropion is due to an injury. The cicatrix is dissected out so as to leave a wedge-shaped gap which, when sutured, restores the lid to its proper position. Wharton Jones' operation is shown in the two remaining figures. In B the V-shaped incision has been made, and the cicatrix partly dissected up. When the lid is brought into position the incision becomes Y-shaped, as shown in C. or necrosis of the orbital margin or the malar bone with adhesion of the skin to it. The forms of ectropion due to thickening of the conjunctiva and paralysis of the lower lid are generally dealt with by the ophthalmic surgeon. When the deformity is cicatricial, it is of importance not to undertake a plastic operation until the contraction has entirely ceased, as otherwise the deformity will be reproduced; and further, the patient should be in a good state of health. In syphilitic cicatrices, for example, a considerable time must be allowed to elapse after the ulceration has ceased; in fact, unless the patient has recovered from the disease, ulceration is very apt to recur in the scar tissue after operation. The particular operation performed in these cases depends upon the situation and the extent of the cicatrix. When this is comparatively small and close to the lower eyelid, the operation introduced by Wharton Jones may be employed (see Fig. 50). A V-shaped incision is made with its apex downwards, the skin and fat are dissected up, the lower eyelid