230 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS. nose and that of the naso-pharynx and the work has to be done through quite a narrow channel on one side of the septum in order to reach the tumour. A third set of operations consist in the osteoplastic resection of the tipper jaw, of which the type is Langenbeck's. In this case incisions are carried through the skin commencing below the outer extremity of the orbital margin, running forwards to the nasal bones, curving downwards to about opposite the ala of the nose and then running ourwards again in the cheek. The underlying portion of the bone which consists of the entire upper jaw with the exception of the orbital margin above and the alveolar margin below, is divided with the saw and then an attempt is made to lever this portion outwards along with the skin covering it. This is really a very difficult matter, and, when it is done, the space left is after all not large, while on the other hand the skin incision is a great deformity. In cases of malignant polypi about the back of the nose it is best in our opinion to remove portions of the upper jaw rather than to attempt to work through a small opening. The line of incision is that for a partial excision of the upper jaw (see p. 220). It is certainly not necessary to remove the orbital plate and it is also unnecessary to remove the periosteum of the hard palate, but it is well to remove the rest of the bone and if the muco-periosteal hard palate be turned aside, in the way already described (see p. 221), and an incision carried through the bone below the orbital margin, the lower part of the maxilla can be removed by dividing the palate process to one side of the middle line, the frontal process of the bone below the orbital margin and the malar process externally. The posterior part of the antrum, which generally breaks off, can be chipped away; in this way free access is obtained to the naso-pharynx. The base of the tumour can then be properly dealt with. After all, the deformity resulting from an operation of this kind is extremely slight. The line of incision need not be carried very far out along the orbital margin and, when carefully united, hardly shows, while the cavity left is shut off from the mouth by the hard palate and the sinking-in of the cheek is comparatively slight, more especially as no portion of the malar bone need be taken away. When the tumour is malignant and sessile, no operation short of a partial excision of the upper jaw such as the above will give satisfactory access to the part; with such an operation there is a perfect view into the naso-pharynx if the pterygoid process be also cut through. Such a procedure is described by one of us in the Lettsomian Lectures for 1897.1 In the case detailed in these lectures the access to the disease, after removal of the lower part of the upper jaw and the pterygoid processes, was perfect and, although a portion of the Eustachian tube was involved, it was removed 1 See also Objects and Limits of Operations for Cancer, by W. Watson Cheyne. Bailliere, Tyndall & Cox. 1897.