WOUNDS OF THE SALIVARY DUCTS. 185 behind the lobule of the ear downwards and forwards to the angle of the jaw, and the auricle and the posterior edge of the parotid are pulled forwards, exposing the sterno-mastoid muscle at the posterior part of the wound. The nerve lies about midway between the angle of the jaw and the zygomatic arch close to the origin of the digastric muscle, and when it has been thus exposed it can be traced forward to the point of injury, and an attempt made to unite the divided portions (see Part II., p. 250). WOUNDS OF THE SALIVARY DUCTS. These result from stabs or other wounds of the parotid gland, but in that region one of the smaller ducts alone is usually damaged, and although there may be a salivary fistula for a time it generally closes gradually. When a wound over the parotid gland is accompanied by an escape of saliva, deep stitches should be put in to bring the gland substance together over the divided duct, and a separate row of stitches should be put in the skin. When the injured duct is quite small, the wound may heal without any trouble. In other cases a small opening remains in the line of incision through which saliva escapes. Even here, however, the tendency is for the opening to close of itself as the wound contracts. If this process be very slow it is well to touch the outer end of the sinus with solid nitrate of silver or even with the cautery from time to time so as to prevent the spread of epithelium along the wall of the fistula and at the same time to stimulate the growth of granulations. Sometimes, however, there may be a wound of the parotid complicated by considerable loss of skin and subcutaneous tissue, and a plastic opera- tion must then be performed, a flap of skin and subcutaneous tissue being turned in so as to cover the defect. A small fistulous opening usually remains somewhere in the line of union, but in most instances this fistula closes as the parts contract; closure may be hastened by the treatment above mentioned. Wound of Stenson's duct.—This is a much more serious matter, but, owing to the small size and deep position of the duct, it is comparatively rare except in the course of operations or in stabs or gunshot wounds. The accident is of great importance, because it is likely to be followed by a salivary fistula which is extremely difficult to cure. Hence in any wound in the vicinity of the duct this structure should always be looked out for and, if seen, its condition ascertained. Treatment.—If the accident be recognised at the time of its occurrence, as for instance in the course of an operation, and if no portion of the duct has been altogether removed, an attempt should be made to suture the duct with fine catgut and then to close the deeper parts and the skin over the wound accurately by sutures. When the duct is com- pletely divided, a good plan is to introduce along the canal a piece of stout silver wire with its ends filed round, one end emerging into the