AKKECTIONS OF THE SCALP. 7 When the wound is quite small, the patient will usually wish to go about his business after 24 hours, and under such circumstances the larger dressing applied in the first instance should be removed, a small piece of gauze or salicylic wool fixed with collodion over the line of incision, a quantity of the cyanide paste (see p. 5) rubbed into the roots of the hair in the vicinity of the wound and the rest of the hair combed over this so as to prevent it showing. This dressing is allowed to dry and may be left untouched for ten days or even longer. 2 and 3. When the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis is divided, even greater care must be taken in the disinfection of the wound than where the wound is merely superficial. If the wound has been caused by a blunt instrument, hair is usually driven into it and is found sticking over its surface, and this, if left, is of course a certain source of infection. In many cases also the bleeding is fairly severe. Disinfection of the scalp.—In the first instance, disinfection of the wound and the scalp around should be carried out, the hair being cut and shaved and the scalp immediately around disinfected ; then the hair and dirt must be removed from the surface of the wound, which should be thoroughly soaked with strong mixture. If bleeding is going on, however, the disinfection is materially interfered with, and, therefore, when the wound is large and the bleeding gives trouble, and when the wound is much soiled, it is well to arrest the bleeding temporarily until disinfection has been carried out and then to tie the vessels. If the vessels be tied before the wound is thoroughly disinfected the ligatures themselves are apt to become infected and to be a source of subsequent danger. Temporary hsemostasis.—The bleeding may however be readily con- trolled in wounds over the vault by taking a piece of indiarubber tubing and passing it two or three times round the skull from the glabella to beneath the occipital protuberance so as to act as a tourniquet. Should an indiarubber bandage not be available, a tourniquet can be made out of a piece of wetted calico bandage passed around in the same position and subsequently twisted up tight by means of a metal rod. This tem- porary arrest of haemorrhage in large wounds is important, not only because it permits of proper disinfection of the wound, but in some cases because of the free bleeding which is taking place. Disinfection of the wound.—Having arranged for the temporary arrest of haemorrhage and having shaVed the scalp in the vicinity, the wound is thoroughly exposed, opened up if necessary, and carefully cleaned. All hair is removed from it and any portions of tissue which are actually dirty are clipped away; in fact, when the wound has been caused by a blunt instrument and its edges are badly soiled, it is well to cut away a thin slice of the raw surface. In this way a healthier wound will be left which will more readily unite by first intention. Removal of contused bone.—In bad cases, where a flap of skin has