22 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. tions punched out should be kept in order that they may be replaced at the end of the operation. The best way of keeping them is to raise the flap a little at one side with the handle of the knife and to push the fragments of bone under the flap until they are required. In this way the bone is kept bathed in serum and blood at the temperature of the body, and the bone cells are less likely to lose their vitality than if the fragments were placed in warm boracic lotion or warm salt solu- tion as is usually recommended. Of course, the latter procedure may be followed should the cir- cumstances of the case preclude the adoption of the plan we re- commend. In some cases, however, it will be found on cutting down on the fracture that there are no actually detached fragments, and it will then be necessary to open up the depressed area by removing a por- tion of the bone with the trephine. The pin of the trephine must be applied on firm bone close to the line of the fracture, and rather more than a half circle of the uninjured bone is taken away (see Fig. 4). This gives free access to the deeper parts and permits elevation of the depressed fragments and removal of any detached portions of the internal table, etc., in the manner above described. The portions of bone removed with the trephine should be preserved and subsequently replaced in the wound. In trephining, it is well to use a bevelled trephine with a loose pin (see Fig. 7) and a crown of about an inch in diameter, and it is well to have the trephine attached to a centre-bit so as to enable it to be worked more quickly and smoothly. When a fairly deep groove has been cut in the bone, the pin is withdrawn and the sawing of the bone continued. The skull varies in thickness at different parts, and, being convex, the trephine is apt to bear more markedly on one side than on the other, and hence one part of the circle may be sawn through before the others. Unless care be taken, the result will be that the dura mater is lacerated on that side, and even the brain may be injured. Therefore, after the trephine has got well into the diploe, it should be removed and the end of a flattened probe or a quill should be passed around the groove to ascertain whether at any point the bone is nearly or entirely cut through. Should this be the case, the pressure must be made to tell on the thicker portions, and thus the bone can be sawn through without injuring the dura mater. When the division Fig. 6.—Hoffman's Forceps. These forceps are very frequently used for cutting away portions of the skull piecemeal. They are very powerful punch forceps, the lower solid blade fitting into the hollow of the upper hollow one. They are made in all sizes and degrees of strength, and the beaks of the instruments are variously curved so as to facilitate their application.