220 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS. solutions. Some surgeons advocate the continued stuffing of the cavity to prevent the cheek from falling in, but it is very doubtful whether any degree of care will prevent the contraction of the cheek, and the great objection to stuffing is the rapid putrefaction of the discharge in the strips of gauze. Certainly in cases where the palate is left, the stuffing should not be con- tinued ; when the palate has been taken away, it may be of advantage to pack the wound lightly with iodoform gauze, which should be renewed on every occasion after food. This is of advantage not only in collecting the discharge, but chiefly in forming a roof to the cavity of the mouth and enabling the patient to swallow without any material passing up into the cavity above. For the first few days it is well to feed the patient with nutrient enemata and suppositories; after the third day, when the wound is beginning to granulate, the diet should consist of fluids (milk and beef-tea) administered through a feeder provided with a long india-rubber tube which is passed down into the pharynx on the sound side. After about three weeks solid food can be easily managed, especially if the cavity left after removal of the jaw be temporarily plugged with gauze. The patient may generally be allowed to sit up in two or three days and to get out of bed in the course of a week or ten days; the erect position favours the escape of the discharge very much. In the course of two or three months the cavity will have contracted pretty much to its ultimate extent, and the patient may then be sent to a dentist with the view of having some apparatus made to fill up the cavity in the upper jaw and to carry the teeth ; in some cases the result is remarkably favourable and the deformity very slight. Modified operations.—The above is the operation for complete removal of the superior maxilla, but wherever possible it is important to modify it so as to avoid one or other of the chief difficulties already alluded to, more especially the dropping of the eye. Hence, in all cases, unless it be quite evident that the orbital plate of the superior maxilla is diseased, it is best, after turning up the periosteum from the orbital margin, to run a fine saw through the orbital plate of the frontal bone just inside the margin, from the internal to the external angular process, so that when the upper jaw is detached the orbital plate shall remain behind. This is best done with a fine saw, but it may be chiselled through, only in that case care must be taken that the bone is not splintered. If the orbital plate be left in this way it is quite easy after removal of the remainder of the upper jaw to see whether it is necessary to remove it or not. Of course, if diseased, it must be completely removed, but in a number of cases it will be found that it can be left behind. When the disease is clearly limited to the lower part of the jaw, the whole of the orbital plate may be left intact and, instead of sawing inside the orbit, the saw-cut may be carried outside the orbital margin throughout. Attention should also be directed to the possibility of shutting off the communication between the cavity and the mouth. It is very seldom that