327 TUMOURS OF THE NOSE. TUMOURS OF THE NOSE. PAPILLOMA.—Simple tumours of the nose, other than polypi, which have already been dealt with, are extremely uncommon. The most frequent are simple papillomata, which are generally seen on the anterior part of the septum and occasionally on the inferior turbinate. They are usually quite small and unimportant, and may be easily removed either with a snare or the cautery. FIBRO-ANGEIOMA OF SEPTUM. -Another tumour, more rarely met with but of considerable importance, is the so-called bleeding polypus of the septum or fibro-angeioma. This tumour grows from the anterior part of the septum from a broad base, readily gives rise to haemorrhage, frequently recurs after removal, and is consequently often regarded as a sarcoma, although it is essentially an innocent growth. It is seen most commonly in young adults. The surface is sometimes ulcerated, but its edges are always sharply defined, and it never gives rise to perforation of the septum. Treatment.—The treatment consists in thorough removal: this does not involve an external operation. The best plan is to operate under local anaesthesia (see p. 284), but in nervous people a general anaesthetic may be advisable. The mucous membrane just wide of the growth is first divided all round, with the galvano-cautery as far as it can be reached. The bulk of the growth can then be snared, or it can be detached from the cartilage of the septum along with the perichondrium by means of a blunt dissector. In any case, the base of the growth should be thoroughly scraped, and then packing applied for a few minutes until the haemorrhage is arrested. The cautery should then be used again, or powerful chemical caustics, such as nitrate of silver, well rubbed in until the whole base of the tumour has been seared. In this way the tumour may be radically removed, and recurrence will not as a rule take place. Should, however, recurrence occur, the tumour must not be regarded as malignant, but the same treatment must be repeated. In some cases there has been recurrence three or four times, but the treatment has been successful in the end. FIBROMA.—In very rare instances a fibroma has been met with, most often attached to the septum or to the roof of the nose, and it may attain an enormous size, filling and expanding the nostril, and involving the antrum or some other accessory sinus. Treatment.—If small, the growth may be snared off or treated in the same way as the fibro-angeioma (vide supra), but in many instances an external surgical operation, such as temporary resection of the nose partial resection of the superior maxilla has had to be performed. These operations will be described later.