393 AFFECTIONS OF THE MI DDL?: EAR. of epithelial cells accumulate in the tympanum and sometimes in the antrum also, become tightly packed together and ultimately form a large irregular mass which distends the cavities in which it lies. In extreme cases the attic, tympanum, antrum, and external meatus are thrown into one cavity which may be as large as a walnut, and both the middle and posterior fossa? of the cranium may be opened. Suppuration in the antrum and mastoid cells.—This is most commonly met with when the discharge from the attic is unable to obtain free exit. In other cases, from the intensity of the primary inflammation the antrum may have been involved from the commencement. Adventitious sinuses.—In rare cases in children the discharge from the ear will find an exit down the Eustachian tube or pass along the sides of it into the tissues at the back of the pharynx or in the neighbourhood of the tonsil. Symptoms.—The most prominent symptom is a purulent discharge from the ear, which may be thin or thick, profuse or scanty. If thick and scant)', the discharge may dry into a scab in the deeper part of the meatus, and cause retention of pus in the ear, when the patient may complain of fre- quently recurring attacks of otitis whilst asserting positively that there is no discharge. The discharge may be foetid, and sometimes produces dermatitis of the auricle, or even a pustular eruption on the face and neck. When polypi or granulations are present, the discharge is commonly tinged with blood. Pain is usually absent unless there is temporary obstruction to the outflow of the discharge. The deafness varies from a slight impairment of hearing, only noticeable on careful testing, up to complete loss of hearing if the inner wall of the tympanum and the labyrinth become affected. Tinnitus is as a rule not marked. Treatment.-^Of the otitis.—In simple cases the ear should be cleansed by syringing, followed by drying and the insufflation of boracic acid. The best fluid for cleansing is a mild antiseptic such as a saturated solution of boracic acid diluted with equal parts of hot water, a solution of 1-8000 to 1-5000 perchloride of mercury, or weak solutions of sanitas or permanganate of potash, to each pint of which one drachm of common salt should be added. The fluid should be comfortably warm, as extremes of heat and cold are apt to cause pain. The surgeon may employ an ordinary ear syringe, but it should be used gently, and, if the treatment be entrusted to the patient or an attendant, a small rubber ball-syringe is the safest. About four to six ounces of fluid should be used at each sitting. When a large perforation is present, syringing is apt to give rise to giddiness, unless the fluid be injected very gently and slowly, and the patient be gradually accustomed to it; in some cases it is found necessary to abandon it on this account. In children also, the lotion may pass from the tympanum down the Eustachian tubes, and therefore poisonous fluids must be used with extreme care. After syringing, the ear should be carefully dried by repeatedly intro-