AFFECTIONS OF EXTERNAL AUDITORY MEATUS. of the resulting raw surface. In others where much deformity is present it can be considerably reduced by turning in a flap from the neighbouring tissues. Also skin-grafting, if required, may be carried out at the time of the operation. By these methods a complete recovery is commonly obtained, but in the more severe and intractable cases operation and after-treatment must be carried out as for the congenital deformity just described. FOREIGN BODIES IN THE EXTERNAL MEATUS.-Almost any variety of foreign body may be found in the external auditory meatus of children, the most common being boot-buttons, beads, cherry-stones, peas or beans, etc. These if neglected not uncommonly set up very acute inflammation and may lead to perforation of the membrana tympani; this is most likely to occur when the foreign body is sharp or jagged. Considerable trouble may be caused if the foreign body consist of a substance liable to swell up and to decompose after introduction, such as beans and similar vegetable bodies. In adults a mass of cotton-wool is not uncommonly met with, which has been put into the meatus, has slipped further in and been forgotten. This usually becomes soaked in discharge, which decomposes and sets up violent inflammation. Treatment.—This consists in removing the foreign body and subduing the inflammation. If the body be loose, easily seen and but recently introduced, there is little difficulty in effecting its removal either with a pair of aural forceps or, more simply still, by means of a small hook such as Lister's ear-hook (see Fig. 134). If the patient be very nervous or sensitive, Fig. 134.—Lister's Ear Hook. and always if the foreign body be tightly fitting or embedded, an anaesthetic should be given. The greatest care must then be used to avoid pushing the body further in or injuring the external meatus; in unskilled hands the membrane may be easily punctured, and even the ossicles have been removed through carelessness. When the foreign body is simple and unirritating, it may be quite easily and painlessly removed by means of syringing, and this method should always be adopted by those who have no special skill or training in aural surgery. After the foreign body has been removed the auditory meatus should be syringed out with a mild warm antiseptic such as boracic acid solution, and any inflammation present should be carefully treated until a cure has been obtained (see p. 378). OBSTRUCTION OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITORY MEATUS.— This may arise from accumulations of wax or epidermic scales or a mixture of the two, together with hairs, pus, etc., in varying proportions. Accumu- lations of cerumen are more likely to occur when the external meatus is narrowed or encroached upon, and when the wax is deficient in watery constituents. In some persons these accumulations recur periodically. The epithelial debris may form large, compact, leathery masses, and most