CHAPTER XXVIII. INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE NASAL FOSS^ AND THEIR SEQUELAE. ACUTE INFLAMMATIONS. SIMPLE ACUTE RHINITIS.—Simple acute rhinitis or ordinary coryza is too well known to require much description. The affection is most common in children, and is comparatively rare in the aged. Besides the well-recognised predisposing and exciting causes of cold, it must be borne in mind that an acute coryza may also be due to the internal administration of certain drugs, such as iodine and arsenic. Treatment.—There are numerous specifics, for all of which it is claimed that they will cut short the cold if taken during the first 24 hours. Of these, opium is undoubtedly the most reliable, and it is best administered as Mackenzie recommended, in five-minim doses of the tincture two or three times during the day, before meals. A more usual, but a less efficacious plan, is to give a full dose of Dover's powder (grs. x.) at bed- time. A large dose of quinine (5-8 grains in solution) or spirits of camphor x-) given at the commencement of a cold may also serve to arrest it. As a local remedy, strong inhalations of ammonia, or of ammonia and carbolic acid, which form the active ingredients of many quack catarrh cures, are occasionally effectual. Even when a cold has become well established, a great deal can be done to cut short its course, and to alleviate the symptoms, if only the patient will consent to be treated. If the patient be a singer or a public speaker, or one in delicate health, or if there be any other reason which renders a speedy recovery particularly desirable, he should be confined to one room, which must be kept at an even temperature. A mild purge is frequently beneficial, and diaphoresis should be promoted by drugs such as Dover's powder (gr. x.) at bedtime, or liq. amnion, acet.1, as 'The following prescription may be used: $ Liq. niorph., - - ■ • - - Ttlx. Liq. amnion, acet., 5U' Aq. chloroformi, - - ' - - - ad. 5ss. Sig. One tablespoonful every hour until sleep or perspiration is induced.