209 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. not yet reached the surface of the bone, the removal of the tooth suffices to cure the disease, the pus finding its way outwards through the tooth socket and the abscess cavity gradually closing. When the abscess has made its way externally either in the gum or through the skin, it must of course be opened, but healing will seldom occur until the tooth is removed; unless this be done, a sinus remains for a long time, leading through a small channel in the bone to the root of the tooth. On the other hand, when the tooth is removed the sinus generally closes very quickly. When the pus is making its way towards the skin it is very important to prevent this if possible, and hence, when the cheek is becoming adherent to the jaw, it is well to incise the indurated tissues from within the mouth, when pus will usually be found; the opening is then plugged, the tooth removed, and in most cases the inflammation will subside without extending further into the cheek. ACUTE OSTEO-MYELITIS.—The more extensive and violent in- flammations leading to necrosis of portions or even the whole of the jaw may be due to a carious tooth, but they are more commonly the result of a more diffuse infection, such as a typical osteo-myelitis. These cases usually occur further back than the alveolar abscesses, most commonly somewhere about the angle of the lower jaw, and they are more common in the lower jaw than in the upper. Pus readily forms between the periosteum and the bone and the latter is apt to necrose to a considerable extent. Treatment.—The treatment of this affection must be carried out on the lines already indicated for acute osteo-myelitis generally (see Part III., p. 175). The first point is of course to remove any local cause as quickly as possible; any carious teeth or an impacted wisdom tooth should be extracted without delay. In some cases this is not by any means an easy matter as the jaws are generally more or less closed, in the first instance from spasm and subsequently from inflammatory infiltration of the muscles, so that it is extremely difficult or almost impossible to open the jaws sufficiently widely to extract an impacted wisdom tooth. When however the disease has evidently arisen from such a cause, its removal is absolutely essential, and if the mouth cannot be opened sufficiently widely, the mucous membrane over the posterior part of the jaw should be incised and the bone over the wisdom tooth cut. though with a chisel and hammer and the tooth removed from its bed. It is also absolutely essential to obtain free drainage of the pus surrounding the necrosed bone; as long as it does not escape properly the necrosis extends and the patient is liable to general septic infection. When the disease occurs about the angle of the jaw, it is necessary in the great majority of cases to make an external opening at the most dependent part. An opening into the abscess from the mouth is quite inefficient; the escape of pus is defective, saliva flows back into the cavity, decom- position is excessive and the skin is sure to give way over it. It is much better therefore to anticipate these events by making a suitable counter- pt. v. o