SYPHILIS OF THE LARYNX. 443 Cicatricial contraction is an almost constant result of deep ulceration, and may lead to stenosis of the larynx. If the vocal cords be affected per- manent aphonia results. Cicatricial bands may form between the cords or other parts of the larynx, or between the larynx and the pharynx; even the epiglottis may contract adhesions to the posterior pharyngeal wall. Even in the milder cases fixation of one or both vocal cords often remains. Not uncommonly also fleshy fibromatous excrescences are left behind and may persist in spite of anti-syphilitic treatment. Treatment.—The medicinal treatment is the same as that for tertiary syphilis elsewhere (see Part I., p. 235), but a few special points must be carefully attended to. If there be dyspnoea or cedema of the larynx, great caution is necessary in administering potassium iodide. The first effect of this drug is to increase the cedema, and this may give rise to fatal dyspnoea unless the patient be under observation. Therefore all cases of laryngeal syphilis should be kept in bed, put upon a diet of soft foods (chiefly milk taken cold) and carefully watched. If there be much cedema at the brim of the larynx, scarification should be resorted to and the patient encouraged to suck ice. Hot steam inhalations should be avoided. It is well to commence the treatment in these cases by mercurial inunction, which will often sufficiently diminish the swelling to allow the iodide to be administered without danger. Many obstinate cases will yield to the administration of mercury by inunction, either alone or combined with iodides internally, much better than to the latter alone. There is always the possibility of tracheotomy being urgently required. W hen there is an ulcer in the larynx accompanied by exuberant granu- lations, or when there are fleshy outgrowths, calomel insufflations should always be used. One or two grains of calomel are placed in the bulb of a special porcelain insufflator. This is heated by a spirit lamp until the calomel commences to vaporise. The insufflator is then introduced into position by means of a laryngoscope and the vapour blown down into the larynx. It will usually be found to produce a white film all over the laryngeal surface. The general treatment of the patient must also be attended to. Dysphagia must be relieved by giving ice to suck, giving all foods cold, and if necessary insufflations of orthoform or morphia (see p. 421). If there be great difficulty in drinking, all fluids must be thickened or, in extreme cases, given per rectum (see p. 449). All severe cases must be kept in bed in an equable temperature and stimulants should be prohibited. Later on tonics and change of air are required. If stenosis of the larynx supervene, tracheotomy must be performed, and the low operation (see p. 253) is advisable as the tube must usually be worn permanently. The treatment of cicatricial contractions is as a rule unsatisfactory. If there be a broad band of adhesion or if there has been extensive perichondritis and necrosis treatment is almost certain to fail. Also adhesions in the upper part of the larynx or between the larynx and