152 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. loosened so that it comes into place, and the two sides of the V stitched together,-possibly after loosening the edge so as to give support to the lower eyelid. This method is also good where the ectropion is due to adhesion of a scar to the orbital margin or even to the malar bone. In the latter case, one side of the V will be longer than the other, but, when the eyelid is pulled up and the wound sutured so as to make it into a Y-shaped incision, the defect is very satisfactorily overcome. When the whole cheek is converted into cicatricial tissue and it is not possible to get a sound flap, the treatment must be by skin-grafting. Whenever it is possible to turn in a flap of skin, however, it is best to do so, and when the cicatrix is limited, sound skin to turn in can generally be found over and beyond the malar bone. An incision is made parallel to and just below the margin of the eyelid and deepened until the orbital fat is exposed. With the handle of the knife the lower a b c Fig. 51.—Flap Operation fur Ectropion of the Lower Eyelid. The operation is fully described in the text. The lower lid should be fastened in position by silkworm- gut stitches passing upwards to the eyebrow, but these are not shown in the figure. eyelid can then be turned up, any necessary extension of the incision at either side being made in order to remove all tension. This leaves an elliptical gap to be covered in (see Fig. 51, A). Before doing this it is well to put in two or three interrupted silkworm-gut stitches between the ciliary margin and the eyebrow, so as to retain the lid in position. An incision, somewhat longer than the length of the eyelid, is then carried downwards from the outer end of the incision, and from the lower end of this a curved incision is carried upwards to a point level with but posterior to the upper end of the first, so as to cut a flap the base of which is just outside the outer canthus and which is somewhat broader and longer than is quite necessary to fill up the gap. This flap is then turned on its base and stitched into position with horsehair stitches (see Fig. 51, B). A quantity of fat must be raised along with the skin, so that the flap will retain its vitality, but it is well to avoid cutting deep enough to injure the branches of the facial nerve. By undermining the skin, the sides of the gap left in the cheek may be brought together and a vertical scar pro- duced (see Fig. 51, C). The ingenuity of the surgeon must however be exercised in these cases to find flaps from any part where there is no cicatrix.