291 ABSCESS OF THE SEPTUM. ADHESIONS BETWEEN THE SEPTUM AND THE INFERIOR TURBINATE. Causes.—These adhesions commonly follow operations in which the septum and the turbinate have been simultaneously denuded of epithelium, but they may also be the result of other forms of trauma or of ulceration of the nose, such as occurs in syphilis or in acute inflammatory affections like fibrinous rhinitis. A very common cause is the unskilful application of the electric cautery. Treatment, (a) In recent cases.—When an adhesion has just occurred or is in the process of formation, the mucous membrane is usually much inflamed, and any apparatus to keep the parts separate causes considerable pain to the patient, sets up an acute swelling of the mucous membrane and is consequently often intolerable. In a few of these cases however if a small piece of gauze be introduced between the raw surfaces and changed repeatedly, a good result may be obtained; but frequently, even after weeks of treatment, the raw surface absolutely refuses to heal until all packing or splints have been removed. If therefore, after a careful trial for a reasonable time, failure seems certain, it is well to give the nose some two or three months' rest and to allow the adhesion to form. (b) When established.—When all the inflammation and swelling has subsided, the adhesion may be divided. If it be small, this is best accom- plished by the galvano-cautery. The charred surfaces left have little tendency to adhere for several days, and consequently no apparatus need be used. In most cases it is sufficient to see the patient every second or third day for a fortnight, and, applying cocaine, to introduce a probe between the raw surfaces to see that no adhesion forms. If the adhesion be extensive, it is better to divide it with the scissors or a saw, and then to remove a large piece either from the septum or from the turbinate with a spokeshave and thus to make a large gap between the opposing surfaces. Into this gap a small piece of gauze may be intro- duced, and the packing renewed every second or third day until healing is complete. If only a small interval be left between two broad surfaces and an attempt be made to keep the opposing surfaces apart by means of celluloid plates, indiarubber strips or metal or ivory plugs, there will often be so much irritation and swelling that the raw surfaces pressing tightly against the plugs will not heal, and consequently adhesion will recur directly the plugs are removed. ABSCESS OF THE NASAL SEPTUM. Causes.—The majority of these rare cases occur in children, and are due to trauma, but a few are on record in which the disease has fol- lowed erysipelas, typhoid, etc. In the more common cases a hematoma of the septum follows the injury, and pyogenic organisms subsequently gain idmission, probably through an abrasion in the mucous membrane, and