TUMOURS OF THE NASO-PHARYNX. 229 base of the tumour more thoroughly and if possible to remove it and the periosteum from which it grows. The polypi can be got at in various ways, and we shall here indicate the chief routes by which they are approached. The actual details of these operations need hardly be given because as a rule there is no urgency in the operation and the various plans can be considered at leisure. In one set of operations the tumour is got at through the mouth. Of these probably the best plan is that introduced by Nekton, which consists in splitting the uvula and soft palate, carrying the incision forwards in the middle line on to about the posterior half of the hard palate. At the anterior end of this, transverse incisions are made halfway across the hard palate on each side, and muco-periosteal flaps are raised towards each side. In this way the posterior part of the bony palate is exposed. Then by means of a chisel and hammer the portion of bone so exposed is chipped away. When this bone is removed, the mucous membrane of the floor of the nose and the septum are exposed and the former is divided close to the septum and turned asjde; such portions of the septum are chipped away as may be necessary to expose the base of the tumour. The result of this procedure is to give a very fair view of the growth although it does not give very good access to its base. It certainly is sufficient to allow one to pass an ecraseur loop around the tumour through the nose; when the main mass of the tumour has been removed in this way, providing the bleeding can be checked, the periosteum from which it is growing can be peeled off readily enough. At the same time, as has been already said, cutting through the pedicle is apt to be followed by very severe bleeding, which is very difficult to check, and the operator may be unable to go on to the complete removal of the pedicle. Annandale performs the operation by simply splitting the soft and hard palates, dividing the bone, and then pulling asunder the two halves of the jaw. Other operations by the mouth have been described, but with regard to all it must be admitted that, especially where the tumour is malignant, sufficient access is not obtained to the growth. The best of them however seems to be that introduced by Nelaton. In other cases, attempts have been made to reach the tumour through the nose. Rouge's operation has been employed by some but the access given to the back part of the nose by this operation is so imperfect that it cannot be recommended. Oilier has employed an operation in which, instead of turning up the nose, as in Rouge's operation, the nose is turned down. An incision is made across the upper part of the nasal bones and downwards on each side towards the alas of the nose. The bones are then sawn through, the septum divided as far as is necessary, the soft parts detached and the nose turned down. But here again the access given is quite insufficient, for it must be remembered that there is a distance of something like two to three inches between the level of the