54 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. sub-dural tissues. Besides, scraping an acute abscess is not a satisfactory procedure, as it is apt to open up fresh paths for the penetration of the bacteria. It is well to touch the divided surfaces of bone with pure carbolic acid so as to shut off the Haversian canals from infection, but great care must be taken that the acid does not get on to the dura mater. When a flap has been turned down, one or two large drainage tubes should be introduced at the corners of the flap and the remainder stitched up. On the other hand, when a wound has existed previous to operation, it is perhaps best to pack it lightly with cyanide gauze for three or four days and then, when granulation is progressing satisfactorily, to attempt to bring the edges together, making due provision for the drainage of the deeper parts. The risk in these cases is of extension of the disease in the bone or of infection of the meninges leading to a suppurative lepto-meningitis. SUB-DURAL SUPPURATION—This may occur either as a localised collection of pus or as a diffuse lepto-meningitis. Localised Sub-dural Suppuration.—As a rule, the result of the inflammation of the dura mater is to cause adhesions between that mem- brane and the arachnoid, and thus, for a time at least, the sub-dural space may be shut off. Pus may then form among these adhesions, so that there may be a considerable abscess without any general infection of the sub-dural space. As this abscess enlarges, it causes ulceration and superficial suppuration of the cerebral convolutions beneath, or a fresh abscess may form somewhat deeper in the brain and not communicating with the sub- dural abscess. If the case be left to itself, the dura mater may slough and, if there has been a compound fracture, the pus may find its way externally, but as a rule the patient dies from cerebral compression, from extension of the affection to the general meningeal cavity, or from deeper-seated cerebral abscess. The symptoms are practically the same as those already referred to, but it is not uncommon to have more cerebral irritation than in the pre- ceding cases. It is however as a rule impossible to diagnose a sub-dural abscess from an extra-dural one until the parts have been fully exposed. Treatment.—The abscess cavity must be freely opened, but care must be taken not to break down the adhesions about the dura mater and the arachnoid which shut off the sub-dural and sub-arachnoid spaces from the abscess cavity. The procedure in the early stage of the operation is the same as that just detailed (see p. 53) up to the clearing out of the extra- dural abscess. The sub-dural abscess may or may not be combined with an extra-dural abscess, but in any case, when the dura mater has been exposed it should be opened at about the centre of the circle and, if pus escapes, the opening should be freely enlarged. It is well to wash out the abscess cavity with weak sublimate solution (1-8000) or boracic lotion, but the greatest care must be taken to avoid using force that might break- down the barrier around the abscess cavity. If the dura mater be sloughing, the necrotic area should be clipped away. Large drainage tubes should