72 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. opening in the bone, kept in place by the bandages fixing on the dressing, or if necessary by an elastic bandage. This will support the part, prevent the increase in the protrusion and lead to its gradual return into the cranial cavity. The difficulty in the treatment is much increased when the hernia occurs after a compound fracture or some accidental wound, because in the first place the opening in the skin is usually over the hernia, and in the second place the tissues are likely to be infected. There are therefore the additional problems of how to close the opening in the skin so as to prevent the protrusion, and also how to arrange for the proper disinfection of the wound and the prevention of further infection. In some cases indeed it may be impossible to close the wound in the skin, or it may be necessary to remove a portion of the scalp owing to its soiled condition, and the hernia then protrudes not only through the opening in the skull but through that in the skin. Under such circumstances the best treatment, after having provided against constriction, is to cover the hernia completely with a piece of Lister's protective, and to apply outside that the ordinary gauze dressings in which a piece of block-tin is incorporated and kept in position by means of an elastic bandage. This dressing will require changing daily, and, if no infection occurs, the hernia will generally gradually recede, until in the course of a week or ten days, it may have entirely disappeared. As soon as the hernia has receded to any considerable extent, an attempt should be made to close the skin opening; by means of a plastic operation a flap of skin can usually be brought over the opening in the skull, and any raw surface left where the flap has been taken from can be covered by skin grafts. In other cases, where no skin has been lost and where the hernia has not yet occurred, it is well, after cleansing the wound in the manner already described, to stitch the wound closely together, if necessary after under- mining the scalp in the neighbourhood, or even by making an incision into the scalp at a little distance away from the edge of the wound. In these cases, however, it is hardly safe to close the wound completely on account of the possibility of sepsis, and it will therefore be necessary to introduce a drain, preferably of catgut, at one angle of the ■ wound in the dura mater so as to prevent the accumulation of fluid. This drain will of itself usually prevent protrusion and does not materially complicate matters. SECONDARY HERNIA CEREBRI.—The most serious form of hernia cerebri however is the secondary form occurring two or three days after an operation or an injury. In this case the protrusion of the brain is due to the surface becoming infiltrated with inflammatory exudation and also to the increase in intra-cranial pressure from the congestion of the brain beneath. The protruded portion in these cases usually contains comparatively little cerebral matter and is mainly composed of granulation tissue and lymph diffused among the cerebral cells, so that the amount