THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. 338 by cutting away the floor, preferably with a pair of cutting or punch forceps, such as Griinwald's (see p. 317). If the frontal sinus be involved, it is necessary to obtain free access to the lower end of the infundibulum by removing the anterior end of the middle turbinate and any polypi or swelling of the adjacent part of the outer wall of the nose that may be present. This usually allows free escape for the discharge. A cautious attempt may also be made to wash out the sinus through a cannula passed up through the infundibulum (see p. 351). Should acute symptoms be present, such as frontal headache, tenderness and swelling over the sinus, and be unrelieved or increased by these measures, an external operation is required (see p. 352). In other cases it is best to leave the case to nature for a time. The frontal sinus however, owing to the dependent position of its opening, commonly recovers under this treatment. The treatment of an acute suppuration of the sphenoidal sinus, should it ever be recognised in this stage, must be conducted on exactly similar lines as for chronic suppuration, namely, by irrigation through its natural opening, which is situated high up in the anterior wall of the sinus above and behind the middle turbinate and near the median line (see p. 274, and Fig. 98) the approach to which is first cleared by removing the posterior end or as much of the middle turbinate as may be necessary (see p. 306). CHRONIC SUPPURATION. Etiology.—Chronic suppuration is most commonly met with as a sequel of acute. Although acute suppuration usually terminates in speedy and complete recovery, certain circumstances render it liable to become chronic. These conditions are partly the anatomical relations of the cavities and partly depend upon pathological processes. Thus : 1. The natural openings of the cavities are small and very badly placed for drainage. The frontal sinus alone has a dependent exit and this is through a long, narrow and tortuous canal which is consequently very liable to be obstructed. If the ciliated epithelium lining the sinuses be damaged by the intensity of the inflammation, it is obvious that the secretion will accumulate until it overflows. 2. The outlet of the cavity may be partially obstructed, and consequently the secretions do not obtain a free exit. The mucous membrane around the various ostia rapidly becomes cedematous, and, being very loosely attached, is thrown into folds which continue to obstruct the opening even after the inflammatory exudation has subsided. 3. The severity of the original infection or the continuance of the suppuration from some of the above causes may so injure the walls of the cavities that spontaneous recovery is impossible. The epithelium may be destroyed and the infiltrated mucous membrane may be covered with