A F FECTIONS OF THE INTERNAL EAR. 4'3 deafness is established, when the other symptoms usually subside. These symptoms must be carefully distinguished from bilious attacks with which they are often confused. The disease is most common in old people, and its suddenness of onset while often in comparatively good health forcibly suggests that the cause is a sudden haemorrhage into the labyrinth. Some- times general debility seems a predisposing cause, but in the majority nothing will be found, and the exact pathology cannot be determined. Treatment.—In the acute stages nothing gives so much relief as counter- irritation to the mastoid especially in the form of wet cupping or leeching. Should this be deemed too severe, blisters may be applied. In the intervals between the attacks the best treatment is the internal administration of hydrobromic acid, in doses of thirty to forty minims of the dilute acid three times a day and gradually increased until a drachm or even a drachm and a half is being taken as a dose. If preferred bromide of potassium may be given, but is more depressing. These drugs usually at once relieve the frequency of the attacks and diminish the severity of the tinnitus, and in the majority of cases effect a cure. The disease however always tends to relapse, especially if general debility occurs, and then the treatment must be repeated. Where bromides fail, quinine in one to three grain doses three times daily may be tried. In other cases salicylate of soda or salicin in full doses has apparently done good, but its action must be carefully watched. When the symptoms have subsided tonic treatment must be carried out and any constitutional ailment remedied. 4. Acute inflammation of the internal ear.—This affection is rare but may result from the spread of purulent otitis media, especially in con- nection with chronic suppuration of tuberculous origin in which necrosis of the inner wall of the tympanum has occurred. It also occurs as a result of very acute infections, such as scarlet fever. Symptoms.—Pain is very acute and deep-seated in the ear and constitu- tional disturbance is usually severe. In addition there is marked tinnitus and deafness together with giddiness, staggering, nausea and vomiting. There is great danger of cerebral complications ensuing. If recovery ensues, complete deafness will probably result but the other symtoms pass off. Treatment.—This is similar to that for acute middle ear suppuration. A good purge should be given and the constitutional treatment attended to, and at the same time energetic counter-irritation should be employed over the mastoid region. In the first place four or five leeches should be applied all round the ear and subsequently the mastoid repeatedly blistered. In acute otitis media the membrana tympani should be punctured and free escape provided for the discharge (see p. 385). In chronic cases the com- plete post-aural operation should be adopted (see p. 404). 5. Syphilis of the internal ear.—(a) Inherited syphilis.—This affection is usually bilateral, is most frequent in females between the ages of ten and twenty and seems almost invariably to follow interstitial keratitis, the ear affection commencing as the disease in the eye subsides. Deafness