391 AITECTIONS OF THE MIDDLE EAR. mental use of the catheter and of Siegle's speculum may be tried, but it is usually unsuccessful. Operative treatment either on the nose, unless well-marked disease is present, or on the middle ear, is to be deprecated as it much more commonly does harm than good. All other treatments such as the administration of iodide of potassium, of pilocarpin, or the ammonium-chloride inhaler are almost uniformly disappointing. CHRONIC SUPPURATION OF THE MIDDLE EAR: ITS COMPLICATIONS AND SEQUEL/E. (Ihronic suppuration of the middle ear is most commonly the sequel of acute suppuration, especially when the latter follows one of the more severe specific infections. An acute suppuration may also become chronic when neglected or when the structures of the middle ear have been permanently damaged as the result of repeated catarrh. Certain affections of the nose and throat and especially post-nasal adenoid growths are liable to produce chronic suppuration in this way. Among the changes which tend to main- tain a chronic otitis, the commonest are those which lead to insufficient drainage, as for example a very small perforation of the drum, the collec- tion of pus in pockets formed by adhesions either between the folds of mucous membrane or between the membrana tympani and the inner wall of the tympanum, the existence of extremely viscid or inspissated pus and the occurrence of complications such as extension of the disease to the attic or antrum, the presence of polypi, carious bone, etc. An essentially chronic otorrhcea is also met with as the result of a tuberculous deposit in the structures of the middle ear. It is most common in patients with phthisis or tuberculosis elsewhere or in those who have a tuberculous history. The affection commences insidiously, the first symptom being a purulent discharge from the ear; on examining the drum, changes obviously chronic are seen. The deposit of tubercle may be in the mucous membrane alone, but most commonly there is also a deposit in the ossicles or in the bony walls of the tympanum. It is quite possible also that some cases originating in an acute suppuration may in time become tuberculous. Pathology.—The membrana tympani is always perforated, the aperture varying from the size of a pinhole to almost complete destruction of the drum. A common form, namely a large perforation in the posterior- inferior quadrant, is well situated for drainage, usually indicates disease in the tympanum and is therefore of favourable import. A small perfora- tion in the posterior-superior quadrant often communicates with the attic and indicates disease of the incus, while a small perforation in Shrapnell's membrane points to disease in the attic and is often associated with caries of the head of the malleus. The edges of the perforation may be free or partly adherent to the inner wall of the tympanum. When a perforation is healing its edges appear to be pink, with finely injected vessels, and