'15 AFFECTIONS OF THE LIPS. especially the upper, with eversion of the red line is often seen as a result of chronic inflammation in the nature of a lymphangitis following upon the presence of these cracks and fissures. It may also result from excoriation of the skin of the upper lip in children who suffer from chronic coryza. Although it is commonly met with in tuberculous children there is in all probability no actual deposit of tuberculous material. Treatment.—When this condition is noticed very great care must be taken to protect any excoriations or cracks from injury and to heal them as rapidly as possible (vide supra). When the fissure is deep, it may be actually advisable to excise it and bring the edges together with fine catgut stitches so as to insure immediate union. At the same time of course, the general condition of the patient must be attended to and the administration of cod-liver oil, iron, etc., with light nourishing food and general attention to hygienic measures is of great help. In some rare cases the thickening of the lip may reach such an advanced stage that the surgeon is called upon to remedy the deformity. If this be the case, improvement can be readily effected by excising a horizontal strip of the thickness of the lip from its inner aspect. An elliptical incision is made upon the mucous surface of the lip enclosing an amount of the mucous membrane varying in breadth according to the amount of deformity. The upper border of the incision should run parallel to the red line, enough of the mucous membrane being left between the two to represent the normal thickness of the lip. As the incision is deepened, the portion removed is gradually made narrower, so that ultimately the piece excised resembles a segment of an orange, the outer surface of which corresponds to the mucous surface of the lip. The bleeding is usually slight and in any case is readily arrested by torsion. The edges of the incision are brought together by two or three fine cat- gut stitches and healing is rapid. The general medicinal measures referred to above must be adopted. TUBERCULOUS AFFECTIONS OF THE LIPS. Tuberculous ulcerations may be met with either in the mucous mem- brane or in the skin, and they may take the form of lupus or of the ordinary tuberculous ulcers. LUPUS is chiefly met with on the upper lip as an extension from a similar affection upon the nose or cheek. Treatment. This has already been fully discussed (see p. 99), and we need not further refer to it. TUBERCULOUS ULCERS are occasionally met with upon the mucous membrane of the lips, generally the lower, which resemble in all respects those occurring on the tongue. Like that affection they may occur as a primary disease unaccompanied by tuberculous mischief elsewhere; much more commonly they are secondary to advanced tuber-