215 MALIGNANT TUMOURS OK THE UPPER JAW. rise to very different appearances. They may grow from the perios- teum in front, they may arise in the antrum, in the periosteum or the structures behind the jaw, or they may begin in the nose and spread to the jaw secondarily. As a consequence, the symptoms and appearances differ widely in individual cases, as will also the treatment and the extent of the operation. Symptoms.— When the tumour is on the anterior surface of the jaw— when it usually begins about the malar process or may indeed be a primary affection of the malar bone extending secondarily on to the jaw— the main feature is a swelling in the cheek, without any blocking of the nose, affection of the hard palate, or elevation of the eyeball. The absence of these last characters distinguishes it from a tumour which has com- menced in the antrum and has burst through the anterior wall. In these cases the skin soon becomes involved. When the tumour commences in the interior of the antrum it gradually fills that cavity and proceeds to distend its walls. After a time it leads to blocking of the nostril on the affected side, and very often to epiphora from pressure on the nasal duct. It also presses up the orbital plate of the superior maxilla and leads to elevation of the eyeball; it depresses the hard palate, and may cause a swelling externally in the cheek. When the tumour commences in the wall of the antrum, it may in the early stage remain limited to that part of the cavity, and may chiefly affect the floor —so that the hard palate bulges, while the eyeball is unaffected—or it may chiefly affect the roof; the eyeball will then be displaced, and the disease will extend to the ethmoidal cells, while the palate remains intact. AVhen the disease has spread to the ethmoidal cells, the eyeball, in addition to being elevated, is also pushed outwards; this is an important sign in connection with the advisability of operation. When the tumour commences at the back of the jaw or in the spheno- or pterygo-maxillary fossa, and affects the jaw secondarily, the nostril may remain patent, there will be no epiphora and no bulging downwards of the palate, while the swelling in the cheek is not usually particularly marked. Among the early symptoms in these cases is protrusion of the eyeball from the extension of the growth into the orbit; before long a swelling forms in the temporal fossa. A consideration of the situation and extent of the growth is of great importance in determining the operations that may be required, and still more in connection with the question of the advisability of operating at all. AVhen the tumour is of rapid growth and the eyeball is displaced outwards, it is evident that the ethmoidal cells have become invaded by the disease, and all hope of extirpating it is clearly out of the question. When, on the other hand, the tumour is of slow growth, the fact that the eyeball is thus displaced does not render the ease inoperable because, as we have found in more than one case, the growth may fill up the ethmoidal cells without involving the bones and can therefore be got out