) 360 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. any underlying diathesis present. Thus, excessive alcohol and smoking must be at once prohibited, and cigarette smoking especially should always be entirely given up. Attention must also be directed to bathing, clothing, and general hygiene, and especially to the state of the digestive organs : dyspepsia and constipation are constant associates of this affection, and until they are remedied a cure cannot be expected. The local treatment consists in keeping the nasO-pharyngeal space absolutely clean and free from all discharge. At least twice daily a nasal wash should be used, such as Dobell's solution (see p. 282), in the same way as already described for chronic rhinitis; this is usually quite as effectual as spraying or syringing the space directly through the mouth. Should the case resist this treatment, the post-nasal space should be painted once daily, and subsequently three times a week with a paint, Of which Mandl's solution is one of the best. This solution contains iodine, grs. 5; potassium iodide, grs. 15; menthol, minims 5; and glycerine, to the ounce. A solution of silver nitrate (20 to 40 grs. to the ounce) may also be used. In all cases in which there are the remains of adenoid growths, especially in cases associated with ear symptoms, it will be necessary to remove the growths, and, even in cases in which a very little growth is present, thorough scraping of the post-nasal space will sometimes effect great improvement. Attention should also be directed towards disease in the nose. Thus, hypertrophy of the posterior ends of the inferior turbinates should be sought for, and, if found, remedied (see p. 306). Again, some obstinate cases may ultimately be found to depend upon sphenoidal sinus disease (see p. 349). POST-NASAL ADENOID GROWTHS. These growths are common in children and tend to atrophy at the age of sixteen, but may be met with up to thirty or even later. They are by no means rare in infants and it would seem that they may even be congenital. They may be hereditary and are often associated with a peculiar malformation of the borfes of the face leading to narrowing of the nasal passages and a high arched palate. They are more common in cold, damp climates and amongst certain races. The most common ex- citing causes are frequent nasal catarrhs, the exanthemata, diphtheria, sore throats and whooping cough. Pathology.—The growth is a simple hypertrophy of the normal lymphoid tissue of the post-nasal space and forms a large mass in the vault of the naso-pharynx, usually with a median cleft; from this central mass two bands usually extend downwards and to each side and become lost behind the posterior pillars of the fauces. Isolated nodules of lymphoid tissue are also seen lower down in the pharynx and occasionally extend on to the upper part of the nasal septum. Not uncommonly masses are