THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS. 214 spring from the gum at the side of a tooth and grow either outwards or inwards between the teeth; as they increase, they may cause deviation of the teeth by their pressure. If they reach any considerable size they may ulcerate and bleed freely. Treatment.—The treatment of epulis consists in the first place in the early removal of the tooth in connection with which the growth arises; in addition, the growth with the adjacent mucous and periosteal tissues must also be taken away. When the tumour is not malignant, recurrence seldom takes place. When the epulis recurs, it will generally be found to be of a sarcomatous nature; under such circumstances, the further operation consists in removing not only the tumour and the soft tissues from which it grows, but also a portion of the bone. The amount of bone removed depends of course on the extent of the tumour. In a small growth the extraction of a tooth on each side and the division of the muco-periosteum over the alveolus in a V with its apex well below the tumour allows of the removal of a wedge of bone with the tumour growing from it and will generally suffice. In most recurrent cases the alveolus is more extensively involved, and a quadrilateral portion of the jaw may have to be taken away after removing the necessary teeth. In the lower jaw, a vertical saw-cut is made through the bone on each side of the growth and then, partly with a saw and partly with a chisel, these are connected transversely so as to remove the bone involved and leave the lower part of the jaw intact. The haemorrhage is usually easily stopped by pressure; if it be severe, the bleeding point may be touched with the actual cautery. Previous to all operations on the jaws and about the mouth great care should be taken to cleanse the mouth and especially the teeth, as otherwise serious infection of the wound is apt to occur. The teeth should be gone over by a dentist before the operation and any foul epithelium on the surface of the tongue should also be scrubbed for two or three days once or twice a day with a nail-brush, and frequent mouth-washes should be used. MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE UPPER JAW. These may be either carcinomata or sarcomata. CARCINOMATA.—The carcinomata may be epitheliomata extending on to the jaw from the mucous membrane of the gum, the palate, or the nose, etc. A considerable number of the antral tumours appear also to belong to the class of carcinomata, and probably originate therefore in connection with the mucous membrane of that cavity. SARCOMATA.—Sarcomata are also common in the upper jaw, and may begin either in the periosteum in various situations, in the sub- stance of the alveolus, in the malar bone, or in neighbouring parts from which they extend to the jaw. In fact, the malignant tumours of the upper jaw may occur in a great variety of situations and may give