169 HARE-LIP. projection in the middle line; this disappears as contraction takes place, or, if it does not, it can be pared down later on. COLOBOMA FACIALIS.—In this condition a congenital cleft runs upwards through the lip and passes externally to the ala of the nose as far as the internal angular process of the frontal bone. It is a rare condition, is sometimes combined with a cleft of the palate and is sometimes bilateral. The operation required for.closing the cleft will depend on its extent; as far as the lip is concerned, the operation is practically the same as for hare-lip. CLEFT PALATE. Varieties.—When the palatal processes fail to coalesce, the following conditions may result: 1. Cleft of the soft palate alone. 2. Cleft of both hard and soft palate. 3. Cleft of the alveolar margin without implication of the palate. Besides these common conditions, there is sometimes a cleft of the hard palate and the alveolar margin without implication of the soft palate, and in some extremely rare instances there may be a central aperture either in the soft .or the hard palate. The cleft in the hard palate may be unilateral or bilateral. Generally the septum is united to one side of the cleft, which only passes up into one nostril, but in bad cases, especially those associated with double hare-lip, the septum lies free between the two sides of the cleft in the hard palate. In most cases of cleft hard palate the roof of the mouth is unduly arched, and in bad cases it runs almost vertically upwards and is narrower than usual, so that the material available for closing the cleft is very scanty. Treatment.—The operation for uniting a cleft palate demands more time than that for hare-lip, and entails greater loss of blood and more shock, and for these reasons it cannot be done with safety at so.early a period of life. It is, however, essential that the cleft should be closed before the child learns to talk, as otherwise the peculiar articulation associated with cleft palate is extremely difficult to correct afterwards. The probable explanation of the persistence of this nasal voice is that the entire absence of nasal breathing due to the presence of the cleft palate, if allowed to persist, prevents proper development of the nasal cavities, and thus, when the cleft is closed; the nasal resonators are ill-developed and do not act properly. Unless there are very strong reasons against it, the operation should not be delayed beyond the third year of life, the most favourable periods being from eighteen months to two and a half years. In some cases, where the cleft is not very bad, the operation may be performed before the eruption of the teeth, from the fifth to the eighth month, but it is well not to perform the operation during the period of active dentition, as, owing to the irritation of the mouth then present, union is apt to fail. The child should be well nourished and able to stand the necessary loss of blood, and at the same time should be sufficiently amenable to its nurse not to endanger union by too much crying. If both hard and soft palates be cleft, it is well if possible to unite both at