THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. 324 to the bone and results in necrosis. The disease most frequently attacks the bony or cartilaginous septum, and usually results in a perforation or a more or less complete destruction of it. The inferior turbinate is more rarely the seat of disease, but the middle turbinate, the nasal bones, or any part of the nose or its bony framework may be involved. If the nasal bones be affected there is usually considerable external swelling and redness of the nose, and the overlying skin may be inflamed and even ulcerate. The alse nasi and the columella may also be attacked and undergo rapid ulceration and destruction. In some cases almost the whole of the interior of the nose is affected and extensive necrosis results: the inferior turbinates, the septum and almost the entire ethmoid may come away as sequestra. Results.—If the disease be limited and be properly treated, a healed perforation of the septum or a scar on the outer wall of the nose may alone remain. When a larger area has been affected and especially when the inferior turbinate has necrosed, the interior of the nose appears as a large cavern, very much resembling the condition in a bad case of atrophic rhinitis. This cavity is lined by scar tissue covered by squamous epithelium: it is commonly filled with fcetid crusts which are extruded with great difficulty: in fact the condition must be considered one of atrophic rhinitis or ozsena due to syphilis. Sometimes a sequestrum may be found in the nose, and this is always accompanied by profuse puru- lent discharge and an intense characteristic fcetor of the breath. When the external parts of the nose have been destroyed, healing will always be followed by considerable deformity. If the nasal bones be affected, the bridge of the nose sinks in and may assume a saddleback deformity. In other cases the alas nasi or columella may be more or less extensively destroyed, or various other distortions result. Treatment.—The treatment is similar to that of tertiary syphilis else- where (see Part L, p. 235), the constitutional treatment consisting in large doses of iodides with or without mercury. In cases which do not yield readily to iodides, mercurial inunction should certainly be tried, and success will frequently follow it in cases in which the iodide alone apparently produces no effect. In addition to this, local applications are usually required. It is essential that the nose should be kept clean by frequent washings with mild antiseptics, such as boracic acid or better still sanitas. In obstinate cases insufflations of calomel1 may be tried locally. Under this treatment healing usually takes place rapidly, but, if the mucous membrane has been extensively destroyed, the nose will be left in a dry condition, and there will be for many months a tendency to the formation of crusts which are extruded with difficulty and which may lead 1Two or three grains of calomel are placed in the bulb of a special porcelain insuf- flator, which is heated by a spirit lamp. As soon as the vapour appears, it is blown into the nose by a small hand-bellows attached to one end of the tube; at the opposite end the tube is flattened for insertion into the nose.