TRIGEMINAL NEURALGIA. 127 Infra-orbital neurectomy.—The infra orbital nerve is very easily reached. After the parts have been rendered aseptic it may be exposed through a small incision, nearly an inch in length, along the natural fold of the cheek slightly oblique from above downwards and outwards. Its centre should be over the infra-orbital foramen, which is a quarter of an inch below the orbital margin of the superior maxilla in a line from the supra-orbital notch to the interval between the bicuspid teeth. The skin and fat and a portion of the origin of the zygomaticus major muscle will be divided, the fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum will come into view above and must be pulled aside, whilst the levator labii superioris must be detached from the upper jaw. After this is done, the nerve is seen emerging from the infra-orbital foramen, and should be seized with forceps and pulled as far out of the infra-orbital canal as possible; as much as can be reached should be taken away. There is generally fairly free oozing from the wound. The method above described is in any case only useful in the early stages of the affection, and in most it is necessary to divide the nerve further back. It is only in a very few cases that this operation can be successful, because the orbital and the posterior superior dental branches are given off before the nerve enters the infra-orbital canal. When therefore the condition is more severe or when it recurs after the foregoing operation, the trunk of the second division together with Meckel's ganglion must be excised. Neurectomy of the superior maxillary nerve and ablation of Meckel's X(Uiglion.—T\\\s may be done through a V-shaped incision with the apex downwards, the centre of the V being a little below the infra-orbital foramen. The flap thus formed is turned upwards and held or stitched out of the way. The infra-orbital nerve as it emerges from the foramen is then exposed in the manner just described, the soft parts are cleared from the bone for some little distance and a square hole measuring about three-quarters of an inch in each direction is cut out of the front wall of the antrum with a chisel. This should be so planned that the foramen lies slightly above the centre of the hole. A silk ligature is now fastened to the end of the nerve beyond the foramen to serve as a guide in the further procedures. After the bleeding has been arrested, a powerful light is projected into the wound from a forehead lamp or reflector and a slightly smaller hole of similar shape is cut in a similar manner in the posterior wall of the antrum. The oozing here is likely to be very free and must be arrested by pressure or by douching alternately with hot and cold water. The next step is to remove the floor of the infra-orbital canal which traverses the roof of the antrum, and this is done, using the infra-orbital nerve as a guide, by very cautious strokes of a fine chisel or with a pair of stout scissors. It is very important to avoid damage to the nerve, as otherwise a very essential guide to the later stages of the operation will be lost. The floor of the canal is usually very thin, and it can often be broken away by introducing a fine steel probe or director alongside the nerve and forcibly bending this downwards. The whole floor of the canal is cut away as