129 TRIGEMINAL NEURALGIA. the internal lateral ligament. The lingual gustatory nerve lies behind and internal to the inferior dental, being separated from it by the internal lateral ligament, whilst the mylo-hyoid branch lies posteriorly in its own groove. When the nerve has been brought into the wound, it is grasped with a pair of Spencer Wells' forceps and divided first high up in the wound and then again below, as much being removed as possible. The operation is tedious and difficult, and the surgeon is much hampered by the continual oozing from the wound. Unless care be taken in isolating the nerve, there may even be considerable haemorrhage from a wound either of the inferior dental or the internal maxillary artery. It is most important to have a good light during the operation, and if strong daylight be not avail- able a forehead lamp should be employed. No stitches need be inserted after the operation, and all that is necessary is to have the mouth frequently washed out with a weak solution of sanitas (two drachms to the pint). There is often considerable swelling and stiffness about the jaws for some days after the operation, but this usually subsides entirely. Another and simpler method of reaching the nerve from the cheek by deepening the sigmoid notch finds a place in most of the text-books on operative surgery. It is hardly necessary to say that, since the operation above described is quite feasible in ordinarily skilled hands, the scarring and possible risk of injury to important structures involved in the external opera- tion render it inadmissible. Neurectomy of the gustatory nerve.—The lingual gustatory nerve is very easily divided. The patient is placed in the same position as for the former operation, the mouth is widely opened with a gag and the tongue pulled forcibly over to the opposite side, and at the same time drawn somewhat forwards with tongue forceps. The nerve will then be felt to start up into relief immediately behind and below the last molar tooth. It lies behind the pterygo-maxillary ligament, and is easily felt by the finger in the mouth. An incision should be made along the line of the nerve through the mucous membrane; the former is then drawn out upon a blunt hook and half an inch or more excised. Neurectomy of the auriculo-temporal nerve.—This branch of the fifth nerve very rarely requires division. Should it do so, it can be excised through a vertical incision immediately in front of the ear with its centre across the base of the zygoma. The nerve here lies immediately posterior to the superficial temporal artery. It is not infrequently found in trigeminal neuralgia that the pain recurs after a short time, notwithstanding the division of all three of its chief branches in turn. It will then be necessary to expose the trunk of the third division as it emerges from the skull through the foramen ovale and to divide it there, so that it shall retract inside the opening. This is perhaps best done by the operation which we quote below in the words of our colleague, Professor William Rose,1 to whom many of the steps of the operation are due. ' 'The Surgical Treatment of Neuralgia of the Fifth Nerve, 1892, p. 52. PT. V. 1