82 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. When one comes to consider the subject of congenital hydrocephalus it is to be feared that the disease unless checked at quite an early period is incurable, and, even if the patients were to live, the brain is usually so badly developed and has been so injured by the pressure that any marked restoration of the cerebral functions can hardly be expected. When however the brain has developed well and when the condition of internal hydrocephalus develops at a later period, the case is more hopeful. The essential injury here is due to the distension of the ventricles, and the establishment of such a regulation of the cerebro- spinal fluid as is described above is evidently well worth attempting. We have however only had two or three cases belonging to this class and so far our attempts to establish a permanent communication between the lateral ventricle and the sub-dural space have not been successful. The attempts have been made in the same manner as already described in connection with congenital hydrocephalus, namely, by the introduction of a catgut drain of varying thickness between the lateral ventricle and the sub dural space, and the usual result has been that for the first two or three days there has been marked relief of the symptoms, and that then the drainage has apparently ceased, and the distension of the ventricles has recurred. The probability is that this is due to blocking of the capillary drain by the brain substance, which becomes squeezed in between the strands of catgut; and it seems evident that a capillary drain will not suffice for this condition. In one case Mr. Ballance obtained an excellent result, for a time at any rate, by the introduction of an indiarubber tube in place of a catgut drain, and his case, although it ultimately ended fatally, shows that the principle acts here just as in the congenital cases, and that what has to be found is the best procedure to be adopted. Whether it is advisable to leave an indiarubber tube permanently in the brain is a question which is open to doubt. We propose in any future case employing a decalcified bone tube, the interior of which is filled with strands of catgut, and in this way we shall have a capillary drain protected from the brain substance, and we hope that, as absorption of the bone tube and the catgut goes on, lymph channels will be formed which will suffice to carry on the communication between the ventricles and the sub-dural space. It certainly seems to us that, in these acquired cases, further efforts should be made in this direction. i