138 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. border of the eyelid, dissecting up the latter, stitching it to the eyebrow, and covering over the raw surface left with skin-grafts will often effect an immediate and striking improvement. A certain amount of shrinking of the grafts will no doubt occur, but a great deal is gained, and, after some months, when the shrinking has ceased, the operation can be repeated, so that ultimately the ectropion may be completely cured. Skin-grafting has however a limited scope in defects on the face, being practically confined to cases in which the loss of tissue is comparatively superficial. Flap methods.—In the majority of cases where plastic surgery is required there is a loss of tissue in depth as well as in superficial area, and very often there are cavities to be bridged over; here the various flap operations are the only ones applicable. When the defects are made by the surgeon, it is generally advisable to cover them in at the time of the operation. Some have advocated that in certain instances the wound should be allowed to heal and the plastic operation performed later, but, by repairing the defect immediately, it is easy to avoid much of the subsequent contraction and deformity which are in reality very difficult to overcome when once established; further, operations through cicatrices, such as these must necessarily be at a later period, are not particularly satisfactory owing to the lower vitality of the cicatricial tissue. In some cases however it may be desirable to allow the wound to cicatrise. Thus, for example, it may be desirable to leave open the gap made in the cheek after the removal of an extensive tumour from the upper jaw involving the skin, when the surgeon is not at all certain that the disease has been completely removed and wishes to see the interior of the wound thoroughly so as to watch for and treat any recurrence immediately. Again, the amount of tissue removed may be so great that it is impossible to find flaps in the neighbourhood to replace it. Under these circumstances, as much of the space as possible should be covered in immediately by a plastic operation ; at a subsequent period the remainder of the defect—which should be left towards the nasal side of the opening—may be covered by a flesh- coloured plate kept in position by spectacles. With care these artificial substitutes may be made even more sightly than the result of a plastic operation and they have the advantage that the area of the operation can quite readily be watched for signs of recurrence. The most important principle in cutting the flaps is to employ curved incisions wherever this is possible. In many of the text-books straight incisions are shown for the raising and pulling-in of flaps to fill the defects, but these have several disadvantages. In the first place, there is more tension than when curved incisions are used, as the latter allow the flap to slide into position without undue traction; consequently the recti- linear flap either gives way or, if it remain firm, deformity may be caused from the tension, while the angles of the incision at the base of the flap pucker up and cause disagreeable projections. Moreover, with rectilinear flaps it is not, as a rule, possible to get enough covering for most openings. For example,