176 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. hard palate stitches are inserted in the same manner. The stitch through the tip of the uvula should next be inserted; it can usually be passed directly from one half of the uvula to the other without employing the silk loop. The uvula is if^^Cw\*' n6Xt §rasPe<^ f°rcePs ar)d pulled backwards and downwards so as to put the soft palate on the stretch; this shows the surgeon exactly where the stitches should be introduced. The second soft palate stitch is put in midway between the uvula and the posterior edge of the hard palate, and then intermediate stitches are inserted at intervals of about a quarter of an inch. In the immediate neighbour- hood of the uvula two or three stitches may be passed direct from one flap to another without the intervention of the loop. For the posterior stitches horsehair should be employed. All the stitches should be drawn through before they are tied, each pair of ends being caught in Spencer Wells' forceps. The back of the throat is now thoroughly sponged out, the line of incision gently cleared from blood- clot and mucus, and the stitches are tied. In tying the latter it is advisable to employ the surgical knot, that is to say two turns should be taken in that it does not slip while the second half of the The ends should be cut moderately long, so that they Fig. 70.—Methods of In- troducing the Sutures in a Cleft Palate. Both methods described in the text are illustrated here. In the first method a loop a is passed through one side. bb' shows the gut suture passed single through the other side and in- to the loop which is then withdrawn, cc' leaving it in position dd'. In 1, 1' the double loop method is illustrated. In 2, 2' the second loop, drawn through both sides, has the single gut suture looped into it preparatory to pulling it through both flaps. the first hitch so knot is being tied. may lie against the palate and not project directly on to the dorsum of the tongue. At this stage it is very necessary that the patient should be deeply anaesthetised so as to prevent any retching or vomiting, and care must be taken to sponge away all mucus from the raw surfaces. 4. The relief of lateral tension.— The last stage in the operation is the relief of lateral tension on the soft palate. It is sometimes recommended that this should not be done unless there be marked tension, as ascertained by the pressure of the finger on the united palate. It is however well always to effect it, as its object is rather to prevent tension from the subsequent pull of the palate muscles than to relieve any actual tension due to the operation. It is best done by introducing a probe-pointed knife into the posterior extremity of each lateral incision and prolonging it vertically backwards into the soft palate, Fig. 71.—The Relief of Lateral Ten- sion in the Soft Palate. The edges of the cleft have been sutured. The dotted lines indicate the downward prolongations of the incisions on the hard palate, in order to relieve the tension.