AFFECTIONS OF THE LIPS. I 2 I fingers, is made by cutting downwards from the free margin of the lip to the apex of the V. The bleeding vessels are then similarly treated. The wound should now be stitched up. The first stitch should be of silkworm gut, and should be put in at the red line which must be carefully adjusted. The ends of this stitch, which should go fairly deeply through the parts, should be left long. A second stitch of silkworm gut should be inserted deeply through the centre of the cutaneous aspect of the incision, and at some distance from the wound in order to relax tension. The remainder of the skin incision is then brought together accurately by stitches of fine silkworm gut or stout horsehair, which pass deeply through the thick- ness of the lip close down to the mucous membrane. When these have all been inserted, the lip is everted by pulling upon the first stitch in the red line and a few catgut stitches are inserted in the mucous membrane. The latter should not be brought together to anything like the same extent that the skin incision is. It is well to leave gaps in it to permit a certain amount of drainage. These wounds practically invariably heal by first intention. Should the glands be infected, it is generally best to make a separate incision for their removal. Should the sub-maxillary glands be enlarged, the sub-maxillary salivary gland should always be taken away as well, as the lymphatic glands lie close to it and may escape notice unless the salivary gland be removed. As a rule it is unnecessary to remove the lymphatic vessels running between the primary disease and the enlarged glands. When however the growth is large, it is a good plan to carry the apex of the V down along the course of the lym- phatics so as to terminate in the neigh- bourhood of the glandular area (see Fig. 33). This has the double advantage that, while it removes the lymphatics, it also, by prolonging the V, makes the subsequent approximation of the Epithelioma of the Lower Lip and the Sun- dMaxillary Glands. The ordinary incision for easier. the removal of the tumour is prolonged downwards The sub-maxillary glands are best ™? backwards, and a sub-maxjUary flap is thus removed through a curved incision commencing beneath the symphysis, carried downwards and backwards towards the hyoid bone and finally upwards to the angle of the jaw. This flap is dissected up, the deep fascia divided and the glandular area thus exposed. Through this incision also the sub-mental glands can generally be removed should they be enlarged. It is usually sufficient to retract the wound well to get free access to the sub-mental region, but if necessary the incision may be prolonged along the lower border of the chin towards the