438 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LARYNX. and especially if dyspnoea be present, making the removal of the growths an urgent matter, other methods must be adopted. The best plan is to operate under combined chloroform and cocaine anaesthesia (see p. 420). The operation is extremely tedious, but it may be continued for half an hour or even an hour, and the entire larynx may be freed from growths at one sitting. When dyspnoea is present this operation may also be attempted, but tracheotomy instruments should be at hand, and it is advisable only to remove a single large mass of growth and to complete the operation later. Of course, if there be much obstruc- tion, it will be necessary to perform preliminary tracheotomy. The operation is certainly not free from danger, especially when there is laryngeal obstruction, as it entails administering chloroform in the erect posture, and the subsequent application of cocaine may produce alarming collapse unless used with the greatest care. It is therefore only to be used when the first method is impracticable, and then it is far preferable to the haphazard use of the forceps under chloroform guided only by touch; this can only be carried out safely after tracheotomy has been performed, and even then it is extremely difficult to remove all the growth without injury to the larynx. When all the growths above the cords have been removed, should stridor or dyspnoea be present there are almost certainly other growths situated in the lower part of the larynx. These must be dealt with in the manner already described, a high tracheotomy being performed, the cricoid divided only if necessary, and the growths removed with the forceps from below. Tracheotomy is necessary when severe dyspnoea is present or is excited by attempts at intra-laryngeal operation. It has been recommended as a curative measure as tending to induce atrophy of the growths; even if this were true the risks to the child meanwhile are considerable, as all respiratory affections are common and very dangerous in tracheotomised patients. Therefore, should tracheotomy be necessary to relieve dyspnoea, the growths should be subsequently removed and the cannula dispensed with as soon as possible. Thyrotomy must be entirely condemned. It is by no means free from danger, it may leave permanent impairment of the voice or stenosis of the larynx, and no patient should be exposed to such risks for a disease which can be far better treated by other methods. Of fibromata and myxomata.— These growths, occurring chiefly in adults, may always be removed by forceps under cocaine in the way above described (see p. 436). If the growth occurs in the anterior commissure, it is some- times more convenient to use the snare. There is usually no tendency to recurrence. Cysts of the epiglottis are best punctured with the electric cautery. It is well to burn a large hole in the cyst wall, when there will be no attempt at refilling. Simple incision is useless.