172 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. a self-retaining spring gag, introduced by Mr. Arbuthnot Lane, which is pre- vented from shifting its position by small spikes thrust into the alveolus (see Fig. 68), may be used instead. When one of these gags is employed, the assistant must keep the tongue out of the way of the operator with a sjjatula. The sponges should be of medium size and are best used on forceps or in special holders. Care must be taken that neither the forceps nor the holder projects beyond the sponges and that the sponge cannot be displaced laterally so as to uncover the end of the instrument which grasps it; other- wise laceration of the flaps or the back of the throat may occur. When sponges are fixed on handles care must be taken that the sponge does not get detached—an accident that is rather apt to occur. Fig. 60.—Lane's Gag. The small spikes on the arms of the gag stick firmly into the alveoli and prevent the gag from slipping. The operation that is generally performed at the present day is called Langenbeck's; in a typical straight-forward, moderate-sized cleft occupying the entire hard and soft palate the following are the steps of the procedure. The operation may be conveniently divided into the. following four stages: 1. paring the edges of the cleft; 2. formation of the muco-periosteal flaps; 3. the passage and tightening of the sutures; and 4. the relief of lateral tension. Advantage is generally taken of the intervals between these stages to arrest hfemorrhage, to thoroughly clear the throat of blood and to administer more ansesthetic. 1. Paring the edges of the cleft.—This is best done by seizing the extreme tip of the cleft uvula on one side with a- pair of special long- handled catch forceps. By pressing these forceps backwards and down- wards the palate is put firmly on the stretch and a sharp-pointed, long- handled, narrow-bladed palate knife is inserted through the thickness of the soft palate just external to the edge of the cleft with its back to the forceps. Then, by steadily cutting towards the apex of the cleft, a paring