249 TRACHEOTOMY. the level of the thyroid isthmus. The crico-thyroid membrane can easily be identified in all cases and the incision will generally be about two inches long. It is carried through skin and fascia until the interval between the muscles runningifrom the larynx to the sternum is exposed. The handle of the knife, aided by a few touches of its point, will suffice to separate these muscles, which are then carefully retracted to an equal extent on the two sides. In separating the muscles, care should be taken to avoid puncturing the anterior jugular veins in the upper part of the incision. These are often much dilated if there be much dyspnoea, and the transverse jugular branch joining them generally has to be divided. The best plan is to seize it in two pairs of forceps before it is divided and to tie it as soon as possible. When the muscles are well retracted, the isthmus of the thyroid and the trachea covered by the deep layer of cervical fascia come into view. A transverse incision should now be made along the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, curving somewhat downwards at each extremity so as to detach the fascia running from that structure to the isthmus of the thyroid, and the latter is then pushed well out of the way by stripping down the fascia with the handle of the knife. This is a better plan than making a median incision through the fascia, and should always be done when time allows, as it saves oozing that is very frequently extremely troublesome. A double hook-retractor is now used to pull the isthmus of the thyroid firmly downwards and to steady the trachea, whilst a sharp hook is introduced through the trachea on each side of the middle line, its point passing through the membrane below one of the rings and emerging through the membrane above the same ring; these hooks are given to an assistant to hold and the trachea is thereby steadied. The knife is now inserted with its cutting edge upwards just below the second ring of the trachea and made to divide this structure vertically in the middle line as far upwards as the cricoid; immediately the opening is made, its edges are pulled apart by means of the sharp hooks. When there is no urgency about the operation, as will be the case when a preliminary tracheotomy is required before certain mouth and throat operations, etc., it is well to arrest all bleeding before the trachea is opened. When however it is done for urgent dyspnoea, no attention need be paid to the bleeding until the trachea is opened and a tube has been introduced. In these cases the venous oozing is often extremely free and practically uncontrollable from the great congestion of the parts, but it will stop almost immediately the trachea is opened and free respiration is estab- lished. Tracheotomy tubes.—Various forms of tracheotomy tubes are employed, of which the best are Parker's (see Fig. 83) or Durham's lobster-tailed tube (see Fig. 84). Parker's is more suitable for children, while Durham's is best for adults, especially when the low operation is employed, as here Parker's may not be long enough to reach comfortably into the trachea. The older tubes made in the form of a segment of a circle are bad,