INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES. 347 same time, complete removal of these cells leads to no ultimate ill result, and an intra-nasal operation entails no risk of facial deformity. The treatment of suppuration in the ethmoidal cells consists in the removal of all polypi, etc., and in opening and curetting the affected cells, or, in the more severe cases, in practically destroying the whole of the ethmoidal cavities. The operation to be performed varies somewhat with the number of cells affected and with their position, and the treatment will therefore be discussed under the following three heads: (1) When only a few of the more readily accessible cells are affected; (2) when the whole or greater part of the ethmoidal region is involved; and (3) when the anterior set, or fronto-ethmoidal cells, are affected. 1. When a fezv cells only are affected, as shown by the small amount of discharge and the limited extent of caries, polypi and oedema, a small operation only is required. The polypi if present are first removed with the snare (see p. 318), then later, either with local or nitrous oxide anaesthesia, the affected cells are opened and their walls cut away. When passing the snare round the polypus it is a good plan to include as much bone as possible, and in the subsequent treatment more bone should be cut away with Grunwald's forceps or with the ring-knife, the latter being generally the more useful instrument. The cavity opened is then packed with cyanide gauze for a few days, and complete recovery should ensue. When necessary, in order to gain access to the affected part, a portion of the middle" turbinate may be removed (see p. 317). 2. When there is a more extensive affection of the ethmoidal region it is better to give a general anaesthetic and to do a radical operation at once, for under these circumstances the removal of the polypi, which are always present, is useless, recurrence being rapid and continuous. When the patient is anaesthetised, a finger is passed up into the nose and the ethmoidal region is thoroughly examined. Having determined as far as possible the extent of the disease, the finger is withdrawn and a large ring- knife, such as Meyer's original adenoid curette or a spokeshave, is passed up through the nose. The finger is then introduced into the post-nasal space, and, guided by it, the curette is hooked round the posterior end of the middle turbinate, when, by dragging the knife forward, the whole bone can be removed, often in one piece. The lateral mass of the ethmoid is then repeatedly and firmly scraped, large masses of polypi, degenerated mucous membrane and bone being removed. From time to time the finger is introduced into the anterior nares to observe the progress, to feel for loose spicules of bone and any soft patches, and the scraping is continued until all friable tissue has been thoroughly removed, which is often best completed by using a smaller ring-knife. On completion of the operation the nose is packed with a strip of gauze to prevent haemorrhage. The anaesthetic naturally requires great care. In the less severe cases nitrous oxide may be used, but ether, or ether followed by chloroform, is usually necessary and is always to be preferred. The ring-knife of Meyer