igo THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. "parotid tumours," which contain a mixture of tissues with generally a good deal of cartilage, patches of myxomatous tissue interspersed with a certain amount of fibrous tissue, various glandular elements, and in some cases even sarcomatous tissue. These tumours are as a rule firm in consistence, irregular in outline and encapsuled. They are often very slow in growth, the simple forms do not affect the lymphatic glands, and a cure results if the whole growth and its capsule be removed. As the tumours get larger, their weight tends to displace them downwards, so that they are much more easily removed, and indeed in some cases they may pass so far downwards that the mistake is made of considering them to be unconnected with the parotid gland. Treatment.—In removing these growths the skin incision should always be as free as possible because branches of the facial nerve are very apt to be adherent to the capsule of the growth, especially at the deeper part, and it is essential therefore to see exactly what is being done during the removal of the tumour. A curved incision running along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid from the mastoid process downwards and then forwards and finally curving up across the ascending ramus of the jaw will generally give very complete access. The skin and subcutaneous tissue are dissected up, but care must be taken as the incision is deepened to avoid injuring the branches of the facial nerve. The growth is then exposed where there is least thickness of parotid tissue over it; in many cases it is found uncovered by gland tissue in front; when the tumour has been exposed, its separation from the parotid is effected with a blunt dissector until the growth can be pulled or pushed out of its bed and its deeper connections attacked. It is especially in this situation that the branches of the facial nerve are most likely to be met with, and therefore the tissues retaining the tumour to the deeper parts should be gently detached with a flat blunt instrument. The haemorrhage is usually unimportant unless a vein be torn in separating the deeper parts. In that case an attempt should be made to seize and tie the bleeding point; if it be venous or if the attempt to seize it fail, the wound can be stuffed with gauze for 24 hours, stitches being put through the skin edges and tightened after the gauze is removed. Malignant disease.—Malignant disease of the parotid gland may arise primarily either somewhat diffusely in the gland or from the presence of sarcomatous elements in the "parotid tumour" ultimately involving the gland, or secondarily from the development of cancerous glands in the substance of the parotid, or by the spread of malignant disease by direct continuity from carcinoma of the ear. Treatment.—If anything is to be done at all, it must be complete removal of the parotid gland, and, although in the majority of cases this will not seem worth while, still when the disease is fairly limited and any primary deposit has been completely eradicated, it may be done. The operation must of course involve facial paralysis; indeed, any attempt