INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES. 337 should be removed. When the middle turbinate is swollen or enlarged, it may be necessary to amputate the anterior part of it, or a free incision into it may first be tried. The approach to the ostium of the cavity having been thus cleared, the discharge may at once commence to escape, or its evacuation may be effected by bending the patient's head forward in the case of the antrum or by attempting to introduce a probe or cannula through the ostium into the cavity: the means of doing this will be described later under the diseases of the separate cavities. Should the discharge escape, the astringent effect on the mucous mem- brane may be kept up by various applications which are best applied in the form of sprays. Of these, a solution of menthol, five to ten per cent., dissolved in almond oil is one of the most useful, and has the additional advantage of being very soothing to the patient. Other astringents such as antipyrine, hazeline, etc., are used by many for a similar purpose, but none are very satisfactory. The objection to the use of cocaine and supra- renal extract is that the swelling recurs directly the effect of the drug passes off, and is usually even more severe than before. Often, however, it sufficiently reduces the swelling to allow the discharge to escape and thus gives temporary relief. In conjunction with these methods of treatment hot fomentations should be applied externally over the region of the affected cavity, as they relieve the pain and are very grateful to the patient. Should these means of treatment prove ineffectual, it will be well to try the effect of local blood-letting. A free incision, after cocainisation, should be made along the middle turbinate and along the outer side of the nose as high up as possible. These incisions should be made under good illumination with a sharp knife, and the bleeding should be allowed to continue. In other cases small pieces of mucous membrane may be removed with punch forceps, but it is better to avoid the removal of bone if possible, as this may be followed by osteitis and increased swelling and cedema of the mucous membrane. This method of treatment is especially indicated in cases of suppuration in the ethmoidal cells and in the frontal sinus; in the case of the maxillary antrum it is simpler and better to puncture the cavity in the way about to be described. If these measures fail, more active means must be adopted to secure the evacuation of the cavity. Thus, in the case of the maxillary antrum, this cavity should be punctured and the contents washed out. The methods of doing this will be described later. It is very rare in cases of acute suppuration not to obtain a cure by these means. A single irrigation is usually sufficient, but it may have to be repeated in a day or two. Should these measures fail, the case must be treated as for chronic suppuration (see p. 341). If the ethmoidal cells are affected, there is always cedema of the middle turbinate or of the tissues in its concavity, and the parts are very tender to the probe. The treatment is to open the cell or cells affected at once pt. v. v