202 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS. latter upwards and still further depress the condyles. As the jaw is felt to yield, the chin is forcibly tilted upwards and the bone pushed bodily backwards. As a rule, directly the condyle reaches the eminentia articu- laris it slips backwards and the mouth closes with a snap; if the surgeon is not careful his thumbs may be bitten. Hence, the moment it is felt that the condyle is beginning to move back, the thumbs should be slipped off the molar teeth into the recess between the cheek and the jaw. After the dislocation has been reduced, it is very apt to recur if the patient laughs or opens his mouth too wide, and therefore for the first four or five days a jaw bandage should be applied (see p. 198), in order to support the chin; it is best to use an elastic bandage so that the patient can open his mouth to some extent and can feed himself. The bandage may be left off during the day after about five days, but it should be worn at night for at least another week. There is usually no risk of stiffness because the patient voluntarily uses his jaw and no special massage or passive motion is necessary. If this procedure fails, the patient should be placed under an anaesthetic and, employing the same procedure, the dislocation can generally be reduced without any difficulty. The pressure may be made downwards and backwards against the anterior border of the coronoid process rather than against the last molar tooth. Should this plan fail, it has been suggested that a piece of wood bound round with lint should be intro- duced between the last molar tooth on each side and that the chin should then be forcibly elevated with the view of thus levering down the condyles from the temporal fossa; when the teeth almost meet the jaw should be pushed forcibly backwards. One of these methods will succeed in reducing all cases of recent dislocation. The after-treatment is the same in all. The treatment of unilateral dislocation is practically the same as that of the bilateral form. It is well to depress both angles of the jaw, but mostly the one on the dislocated side; the backward pressure should be made on the side on which the dislocation is. UNREDUCED DISLOCATION—If a dislocation of the jaw remains unreduced, the condition of the patient is very deplorable, although after a time a certain amount of power of approximating the lips is regained and the dribbling of saliva which occurs at first may disappear. Further, a certain amount of lateral mobility may occur, enabling the patient to masticate his food. As a rule however his condition is so bad that an attempt must be made to improve it. Treatment.—Unreduced dislocations of the lower jaw have been successfully reduced as long as four months after the occurrence of the injury and certainly in all cases where no more than six or eight weeks have elapsed an attempt should be made under an anaesthetic by the manipulations above described. Before commencing these manipulations however, it is well to elevate and depress the jaw a number of times with increasing vigour so as to break down adhesions about the condyles.