56 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. openings, will only drain the immediately adjacent area and will be useless to the hemisphere at large. Hence, while it is worth while to open up the wound when one is present, in the hope that the affection may be more or less localised, the chances of doing good by any further operative measures are extremely slight if a diffuse general infection be found. If irriga- tion be attempted in these cases, great care must be taken not to employ it under pressure, as otherwise the fluid may find its way towards the base of the brain in such quantities as to cause fatal compression. INTRA CEREBRAL SUPPURATION —After a compound fracture, or as a result of suppurative processes inside the cranium, suppuration may take place in the substance of the brain with or without an inter- vening inflammation of the cerebral membranes or adhesion of those membranes to one another. The result is an abscess in the brain which is usually situated in the white substance near the surface and generally underneath the seat of the injury. The infection usually takes place by direct continuity, the membranes becoming adherent and suppuration taking place not only between the brain and the dura mater but also deeper down in the substance of the brain itself. The abscesses of traumatic origin are most common in the frontal and parietal lobes, and in that situation they do not as a rule give rise to any definite localising symptoms. Symptoms.—The classical symptoms produced by suppuration in the brain are those of increased intra-cranial pressure, and will be referred to presently in speaking of abscess as the result of disease. When the abscess occurs after an injury, the symptoms may be identical, but in some cases of compound fracture the symptoms of compression may not be so marked because the opening in the skull allows of the protrusion of brain substance, the condition known as hernia cerebri, and this to some extent prevents the occurrence of marked pressure symptoms. As a rule the pulse is slow and the pyrexia is not marked; in fact, when there is considerable pyrexia with a quick pulse, the probability is that the case is one of meningeal trouble rather than of cerebral abscess. Rigors are common and vomiting is not infrequent. Treatment.—The treatment is of course to open and drain the abscess. As has been said, in most of these cases there is already hernia cerebri and the abscess is situated immediately underneath it. Under such circum- stances, all that is usually required, both for diagnostic and operative purposes, is to introduce a pair of dressing forceps into the hernia and push it in various directions, expanding the blades from time to time until pus is reached. When the pus is let out, the adjacent portions of the brain, which are usually much infiltrated with inflammatory material, may be scraped away sufficiently to establish a free opening into the abscess cavity, which is then gently irrigated with warm boracic lotion. A drainage tube should be introduced, and the general treatment for hernia cerebri, to be presently mentioned, should be carried out.