193 FRACTURE OF THE UPPER JAW. haemorrhage from wound of the infra-orbital or other artery. The case may also be complicated with fracture of the base of the skull and injury to the brain, and in gun-shot wounds there may be a foreign body lodged in the bone or lying loose in the antrum, which will require removal. At a later stage, if the deformity has not been properly reduced and treated, there may be considerable interference with mastication either from irregularity of the line of the teeth or from the presence of pointed frag- ments of bone which interfere with the proper movements of the jaws. Treatment.—The most important point is to reduce any deformity present. This is necessary from the point of view of the patient's appear- ance and more especially from the fact that unless it be done, mastication may be seriously interfered with. Reduction of the deformity may generally be fairly easily effected by manipulation under an anaesthetic. The most important deformity requiring remedy is displacement of the alveolar border, more especially when the whole of the latter is detached and its position relative to the teeth in the lower jaw is altered. The alveolar border must be restored to position and fixed either by binding the two jaws together, which in some cases is sufficient, or by introducing a properly moulded prop between the teeth of the upper and lower jaws on both sides. When there is only a partial fracture of the alveolus, the replaced portion of bone should be fixed in position by securing the teeth in the fractured portion to the adjacent sound ones by means of a suitable wire splint, such as Hammond's splint, which is fully described for fracture of the lower jaw (see p. 196). Union takes place rapidly in all cases of fracture of the upper jaw and in about three weeks the splint may be left off. Where the fracture traverses other portions of the bone it is unnecessary to apply any splint after reduction. When the nasal process has beeti fractured reduction must be effected by instruments introduced into the nose, and as this fracture is usually complicated with fracture of the nasal bones a similar after-treatment must be carried out to that already described (see p. 110). When the atiterior surface of the bone has been crushed or the orbital margin has been displaced, it may be necessary to make an incision, introduce a raspatory beneath the fragments and lever them into position. When this is done, the bones will as a rule retain their place; if not, they must be fixed by one of the methods of fixation suitable for fractures, (see Part III., p. 26). With regard to the anterior surface of the bone, it must be remembered that the fragments are usually so extensively com- minuted that the chances of restoring them to position are comparatively slight, and that, owing to their comminution, necrosis of portions is very apt to occur. Hence any operation undertaken with the view of restoring them to position must be done through the cheek, and it will become a question whether the deformity caused by the scar will be less than thai clue to the displacement. pt. v. N