290 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. be accomplished quite easily under cocaine. If desired, the mucous mem- brane may be first incised and raised from the underlying cartilage with a small raspatory, but it is much quicker to remove the mucous membrane with the projecting part of the cartilage, and apparently this does no harm. When there is a large bony projection of the septum, it is best to remove the projecting part with a saw. For this purpose any fine, stiff saw may be used; Bosworth's (see Fig. 107) is one of the best. If the saw can be introduced along the inferior meatus under the spur it is better to use the one with the blade cutting upwards, but if this cannot be done one with the cutting edge downwards must be selected. The blade of the saw having been inserted under the part to be removed, the direction in which the cut is to be made must be ascertained, and then, the saw being worked rapidly and lightly, the bone is cut through. The piece often remains adherent to the mucous membrane of the nose, in which case it may be clipped off with scissors. If the detached piece be grasped with polypus forceps it is usually easy to pass the scissors down to and to cut through its attachment, and it is better to do this than to wrench it away. After-treatmetit.—The subsequent treatment consists in packing the nose with a strip of oiled gauze for a few days, followed by daily irri- gations of the nose. It is never advisable to operate on the septum and on the inferior turbinate at the same time, and, if by chance the turbinate should be injured, the further progress of the case must be carefully watched and the packing continued until healing is quite complete, otherwise an adhesion between the opposed raw surfaces is certain to occur and will make matters worse. These adhesions are extremely difficult to overcome. (3) Vertical spurs and ridges are much more rarely seen and may be dealt with on the lines above mentioned. The knife or saw is always required, the former being used in cases of small ridges when there is little hard bone to be encountered, and the latter in all cases in which the growth is mainly bony. Complicated cases.—In many cases the above conditions are asso- ciated, a deflected septum being accompanied by a markedly thickened ridge. If removal of the ridge allows free nasal respiration, this alone should be performed. If however the ridge be small and the deflection great, the removal of the former may be insufficient, and then a subsequent operation may be undertaken to remedy the deflection, or the two methods may be combined in one operation as in the second method described on p. 289. Turbinectomy.—Some surgeons have strongly urged the removal of a piece of the inferior turbinate in severe cases of deflected septum so as to make a passage round the obstruction. This has the single merit of being easy to perform. It is bad surgery to deprive the patient of such an eminently useful structure as a healthy inferior turbinate, if by any other means even more difficult to carry out it can be preserved to him.