DISLOCATION OF THE LOWER JAW. 203 If the surgeon fails to reduce the dislocation by manipulation, the best procedure is removal of the condyle of the jaw—in other words excision of the temporo-maxillary joint. This operation gives better results than the excision of a wedge-shaped portion of the neck of the condyle with the formation of an artificial joint which is sometimes practised. In the latter case, the condyle being out of position, the teeth do not approximate properly, even though movement be restored, and the antero-posterior motion is not regained, whereas after removal of the condyle the ramus of the jaw can be pushed back into proper position and, by carefully keeping up movement, a very satisfactory result is obtained, especially if the dislocation has been bilateral and both condyles have been taken away. The operation is performed as follows: After disinfecting the parts, a curved incision is made over the articulation with its convexity backwards and upwards, the ends of the incision curving forwards so that the base thus marked out is about opposite the position of the condyle. This incision should divide the skin and fascia and should be deepened first posteriorly. The flap is then raised towards the front, care being taken to avoid division of the upper branches of the facial nerve ; if the flap be raised in the manner described these can be pushed forward along with the fascia and there is no great risk of dividing them. The temporal artery will probably be divided but it can be readily tied. The cutaneous nerves may be pulled backwards or divided if necessary; in this way the zygomatic process and the upper part of the masseter muscle are exposed. The latter should then be detached from the zygoma from behind forwards sufficiently to expose the displaced condyle; as a rule, it is only necessary to detach a small portion of the posterior part of the muscle. When the condyle is brought into view, the jaw is depressed by an assistant so as to bring it down beneath the zygoma; this can generally be done fairly easily if anchylosis has not taken place. The neck of the condyle is then snipped across with a pair of cutting pliers and the loose condyle pulled forcibly downwards and dissected out. Care must be taken in removing the condyle not to damage the internal maxillary artery, but the chances of damage to this structure are not so great as when the operation is performed for anchylosis of the joint, because the condyle is carried forwards more or less out of the way of the vessel. After having removed both condyles, the jaw is forcibly depressed and pushed backwards into its proper position ; before closing the wound, the surgeon must make sure that the remains of the condyle can go back readily into place. The jaw should be forcibly moved backwards and forwards and up and down so as to tear through any adhesions, and the glenoid cavity should be cleared of any soft material in it. The wound is closed with a con- tinuous suture and a drainage tube is not as a rule required. The jaw should be fixed with an ordinary jaw bandage, and it is well to begin passive motion within two or three days after the operation ; in some cases an