20 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. outer table with a chisel, so as to ascertain the condition of the internal table. The procedure is the same as that to be immediately described for other forms of fracture. 2. Of depressed fracture.—It may be laid down as an axiom that the depressed fragments should be elevated or removed, any detached portions of bone taken away, and all haemorrhage arrested without waiting for cerebral symptoms to supervene; besides this, when the fracture is compound the parts should be thoroughly disinfected. Hence in all cases of depressed fracture—with the exception of the saucer-like depressions in young infants already alluded to—operation is advisable, whether the frac- ture be simple or compound, and if operation is to be done, the sooner it is performed after the patient has recovered from the shock the better. Simple depressed fracture.—We shall consider first the treatment of simple depressed fractures. The first procedure here is to shave the scalp thoroughly over a large area, preferably over the whole head, and to thoroughly disinfect it in the manner already described (see p. 7). The area of the fracture must next be thoroughly exposed, and this is best done by raising a semi-lunar flap rather than by the crucial incision which was formerly used. The semi-lunar flap has the great advantage that the skin incision is made well away from the line of fracture, so that after the operation there is a sound layer of skin and fascia over the opening in the bone; in the older incision the apices of the four triangular flaps made by it came absolutely in the centre of the wound, so that if there were a tendency to hernia cerebri, the hernia could readily escape through the wound. The flap must be so arranged that it well overlaps the de- pressed area; as a rule half an inch should be allowed beyond the area from which bone will be taken away. The flap should be cut so that the main vessels enter at its base; as a rule its convexity is upwards and the flap is therefore turned downwards. The incision should be carried at once through the skin and pericranium, and the latter should be raised with a periosteum detacher along with the flap. When the flap has been turned down, the fractured area is exposed to view, and the bleeding must first be stopped, most of it temporarily, by catching up the vessels in Spencer Wells' forceps. Removal of bone.—The further procedure will depend largely upon the amount of comminution and the presence of loose fragments. In some cases of badly comminuted fracture, loose portions of the bone can be lifted out and access thus at once obtained to the rest of the depressed area. An elevator should then be gently insinuated between the dura mater and the bone and the remaining depressed portions elevated. If any of the fragments are completely detached, it is well to remove them, so as to get a better view of the deeper parts, and in any case any sharp projecting fragments of the internal table should be clipped away, which can be easily done with punch forceps. In all cases it is well, in removing detached fragments, to take care not to tilt them, as otherwise