POST-NASAL ADENOID GROWTHS. 363 of different sizes. The best forceps is some modification of Lbwenberg's, such as Juracz's (see Fig. 128). These instruments should have shorter and more slender handles than those commonly used and the blades should be fenestrated and cutting so as rather to punch out the growths than to tear them away. In addition to these instruments'a large powerful gag, such as Mason's, is necessary and, if gas be given, a Wingrave's gag or the ordinary dental prop. The operation under gas.—In this method the patient is usually anaesthetised sitting upright in a dental chair, but the supine position may be used if preferred. The patient should face a strong light, or better still, should sit in the same position with regard to a lamp as for an ordinary laryngoscopic examination (see Chap. XXXVIII.), and the light should be reflected into the throat by means of a frontal mirror. The anaesthetic having been given, the dental prop is changed for a powerful gag and the mouth widely opened. Unless a good view of the growths has been pre- viously obtained it is well to commence the operation by inserting the index finger of the left hand well up into the post-nasal space and to examine rapidly the site of the growth, to see whether or not it spreads- on to the Eustachian cushions, and also to ascertain the existence of hyper- trophy of the posterior ends of the inferior turbinates. The curette is passed well up behind the soft palate until it touches the lower part of the nasal septum. It is then pressed upwards and backwards, keeping the blade in contact witn the bony septum, until the roof of the naso-pharynx is reached. The knife being now in position, it is necessary to see that the handle is exactly in the middle line. Now firmly pressing backwards, the handle of the instrument is sharply raised, the blade swept down over the posterior wall of the naso-pharynx, and the major portion of the growth is cut off in one piece. This curette with the growth attached is removed, the smaller instrument introduced and three or four rapid sweeps made over the post-pharyngeal wall. The finger is again introduced to ascertain that the operation is complete. In some cases the growth will be found to have- Fig. 127.—Modified Gottstein's Post-Nasal Curette. Fig. 128.—Juracz's Post-Nasal Forceps.