INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES. 349 operations and often decides to abandon the treatment; the constant pain and the nervous dread of it causes general ill-health; and each operation exposes a raw surface over which pus flows so that there is necessarily a certain amount of septic infection. Fatal results have followed from meningeal affection apparently directly due to the minor operation. The operations do not at once cut short the disease, which meanwhile may spread and involve other nasal cavities. Finally, cocaine is in these cases a very imperfect anaesthetic and consequently the repeated operations are extremely painful. It therefore seems probable that these small operations are more dangerous than a single severe but curative measure. In all cases of suppuration in the ethmoidal cells it is particularly to be remembered that other sinuses may be simultaneously or subsequently affected. Therefore the antrum should be explored before or during the operation, and the frontal and sphenoidal sinuses at some later date should the discharge still persist. 3. The fronto-ethmoidal cells are those forming the nasal floor of the frontal sinus and surrounding the infundibulum. From a surgical standpoint they are best regarded as forming part of the frontal sinus, and the treatment of suppuration in them will be best discussed in connection with that cavity. (c) Of suppuration in the sphenoidal sinus.—This is usually simple when once the diagnosis has been made. This may be accom- plished by examining the anterior wall of the sinus by the finger passed through the mouth and pushed well up into the posterior choana of the affected side. In some cases caries can thus be detected on the anterior wall of the sinus and the softened bone may give way on pressure being applied. In such cases the finger should be slipped into the cavity and its interior examined, and then a sharp spoon or small ring-knife should be passed through the anterior nares and guided by the finger, all carious bone should be removed and the interior of the cavity scraped out. An example may be quoted. A general anaesthetic was given for the removal of several large gangrenous polypi associated with an intensely foetid discharge from the left nostril. The left forefinger was passed well up into the posterior choana and guided by it many polypi were removed by the forceps, the posterior end of the middle turbinate was scraped away with a large ring-knife and the posterior ethmoidal cells freely opened. Whilst exploring and curetting this region a large carious patch was detected on the anterior part of the sphenoid. This gave way under slight pressure and the tip of the finger suddenly entered a large cavity almost filled by numerous small, soft growths. The interior of this cavity, which careful exploration showed could only be the sphenoidal sinus, was scraped out and the opening into it was enlarged by breaking down the carious anterior wall with the curette and finger. The patient soon recovered and after healing a large irregular opening into the anterior wall of the sinus could be plainly seen from the front. The suppuration was entirely cured.