4[4 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE EAR. gradually sets in without pain or any other symptom. and occasionally is arrested spontaneously, but in most cases after the affection has progressed slowly for one, two or even more months, suddenly complete deafness sets in. Treatment.—In cases where interstitial keratitis is present the commence- ment of slight deafness should always be carefully watched for, as in the early stage good results may be obtained by active treatment. But even if complete deafness be present and is not of more than two months' duration treatment should always be tried. The best results are obtained by repeated blistering over the mastoid and as soon as one blister has healed another should be applied. It is better to apply fresh blisters than to maintain an open sore. In addition to this, anti-syphilitic remedies should be prescribed ; the patient should be placed under the influence of mercury as rapidly as possible, which is best done by means of inunction (see Part I., p. 233). Potassium iodide may also be given and rapidly pushed to full doses. In the later stages when the affection has partly subsided and especially if the general health be not good the solution of perchloride of mercury should be prescribed together with full doses of perchloride of iron. Good food, tonics, and change of air must also be ordered as required. If the patient be seen early the deafness may commonly be arrested by these means, and even if complete deafness be present the hearing may occasionally be restored to a large extent. If improvement is obtained the treatment should be continued for three, four or five months. When absolute deafness has been present for two months treatment is of no avail, and a good result is extremely rare if the hearing has been lost for more than fourteen days. (b) Acquired secondary syphilis.—Very rarely indeed a similar affection to the above may occur in acquired syphilis, usually in the late secondary period one to two years after infection. In these cases also the affection is bilateral, but one ear is not uncommonly affected one, two or three months before the other. The prognosis and treatment are exactly the same as for the inherited form and improvement and even a cure may be obtained in recent cases. (c) Tertiary syphilis.—In very rare cases it is probable that a gumma may form in the internal ear. The symptoms are similar to those of acute inflammation of the internal ear ; the pain is usually less severe but associated with nocturnal exacerbations. The diagnosis is made from the history and from other signs of syphilis and confirmed by the result of treatment. Treatment.—The treatment is that of acute inflammation, energetic counter-irritation, etc. (see p. 413), together with the administration of iodide of potassium and other anti-syphilitic remedies (see Part I., p. 235). 6. Mumps and specific fevers.—In very rare cases complete internal ear deafness follows an ordinary attack of infective parotiditis. The deafness is usually absolute, but most commonly one ear only is attacked. The attack may commence with deep-seated pain in the ear accompanied by tinnitus, vomiting and vertigo. Occasionally signs of