333 NASAL ASTHMA. (4) If no objective abnormality be found but yet the onset of asthma be preceded by nasal obstruction, sneezing, etc., the inferior turbinates should be cauterised, as in cases of rhinorrhoea. (5) If, on the other hand, the nasal mucous membrane be perfectly healthy, and there is no clear history of nasal disturbance preced- ing the asthmatic attack, nasal treatment should not be carried out. The results obtained are very uncertain. In rare cases great benefit, amounting in some to a complete cure, is obtained; more often the patient experiences considerable benefit to the asthma quite apart from the relief he gets by the removal of the nasal trouble ; but in the majority of cases no benefit whatever is obtained. There is no means of determining beforehand which cases of asthma will benefit by intra-nasal treatment, and the most successful cases may be those in which there is no marked disease in the nose. But in all cases in which there is some definite objective pathological condition in the nose, nasal treatment is justifiable. Of course, in addition to this, the ordinary medical treat- ment of asthma should be carried out. ANOSMIA. Anosmia or loss of the sense of smell may arise from a large variety of causes. It is most commonly the result of diseases of the nose which act either by preventing access of the odoriferous particles to the olfactory region e.g. polypi, hypertrophied middle turbinates, etc., or by preventing proper contact between the particles and the olfactory sense-organs, e.g. excessive dryness of the mucous membrane, as in ozaena, rhinitis sicca, etc. Again, in catarrhal conditions all sense of smell is com- monly lost, possibly from direct involvement of the olfactory organs in the catarrh. Further, the olfactory region may be extensively destroyed, as in syphilis, or there may be some cerebral affection, absence, disease or injury of the olfactory centre, lobes, or nerves. Apart from these, many cases of anosmia are met with in which no objective lesion can be discovered. Such cases are commonly the sequela? of influenza, diphtheria, or other fevers. Anosmia is frequently accompanied by more or less complete loss of taste, that is, of the power of appreciat- ing the aroma of foods. The prognosis depends entirely upon the cause and upon the possibility of removing it. In cases of nasal polypi for instance, their complete removal may result in a restoration of the power of smell after consider- able intervals even after as much as from ten to twenty years, and the same result may more rarely follow the cure of an ozasna. In other cases the prognosis is much less favourable and, generally speaking, the longer the duration the less is the likelihood of cure. Treatment.—This consists in ascertaining the cause and adopting the appropriate treatment. When no cause can be found, and especially