CANCER OF THE LARYNX. 259 subsequently. The danger of local sepsis, although it cannot be entirely avoided, may be minimised by adopting the preliminary precautious already recommended for all operations of this kind (see p. 214), and is still further guarded against by dividing the operation into two stages (vide infra). The dangers arising from the passage of blood into the trachea are avoided by the means described on p. 260. Preliminary tracheotomy.—It is well in all cases to commence with a preliminary tracheotomy so as to block the communication between the larynx and the trachea. Some surgeons advocate that this should be done some days before the operation proper is proceeded with so that the patient may become accustomed to breathe through a tracheotomy tube and that he may be relieved of his laryngeal obstruction and may thus be in a better condition to stand the operation. It is further urged that the trachea becomes accustomed to the tube and there is thus less coughing and less risk of bronchitis, whilst the length of time occupied by the operation proper is diminished and the shock is consequently less. We have adopted both plans, and on the whole we are in favour of performing the tracheotomy immediately before proceeding to do the thryotomy. In cases of extensive disease, however, when there are enlarged glands in the neck, there is a distinct advantage in performing the operation in two stages, quite apart from any diminution in the irritation of the trachea; namely, there is much less risk of suppuration in the neck than if the various layers of the cervical fascia were opened up for the removal of the glands at the same time that the larynx is removed; the cellular planes are fairly well closed up before the larynx is removed, and therefore the risk of septic infection is reduced to a minimum. It is also easier to prevent pus getting into the treachea if the operation be done in two stages. In these cases, therefore, we would advocate that the operation be divided into two stages, the first being the performance of the tracheotomy and the removal of the glands in the neck, and the second being the operation on the larynx itself. We are accustomed to allow about a week to intervene between the two operations; some surgeons advocate as long a period as a fortnight, but much will depend upon the extent of the primary disease and the rapidity with which it is spreading. We are generally accustomed to perform a median tracheotomy, inter- mediate between the high and low forms, dividing the isthmus of the thyroid freely and introducing a tube between its two halves. This leaves quite sufficient room above for the necessary operation upon the larynx, whilst the trachea is not so deep as in the low operation and the tube is more easily managed. When the operation is divided into two stages, an ordinary tracheotomy tube is first introduced, but the opening in the trachea should be made large enough to admit of the admission of a Hahn's or Trendenlenburg's cannula (see p. 238) at the second operation, as it is not advisable to have to perform any further cutting operation on