8r HYDROCEPHALUS. pt. v. f As regards the results of the procedure, we have found a marked difference between congenital and acquired cases. In the former, in so far as the relief of the brain pressure and the restoration of the normal regulation of the cerebro-spinal fluid are concerned, and the consequent diminution in the size of the skull, our attempts have been extremely successful, but in acquired cases, where the brain is thick, we have found it a matter of extreme difficulty to keep up a channel of communication between the ventricles and the sub-dural space for any length of time. The operation which we have adopted in congenital cases is as follows: A flap is turned down and a small opening is made in the skull, usually at the upper and anterior angle of the parietal close to the anterior fontanelle. This piece of bone can be readily removed with a trephine or gouge, but in some cases, where the fontanelle has been exceptionally large we have opened the lower angle of the fontanelle itself without removing any bone. The dura mater is exposed, a small incision is made into it about the centre of the flap, and a catgut drain, consisting of about a dozen threads of fine catgut tied together at each end and from two to three inches in length, is introduced in the following manner. One end is seized with a pair of sinus forceps and insinuated downwards and backwards between the brain and the dura mater till about three-quarters of an inch is left projecting from the aperture in the dura mater. The free end of this projecting portion is then seized with the sinus forceps and pushed through the brain into the lateral ventricle. The result is that there is a catgut drain extending from the lateral ventricle into the sub- dural space. The opening in the dura mater is then carefully sutured with catgut and the skin flap re-applied. As a rule after the operation there is a rapid and marked rise of temperature, even up to 1040 or 105° F., but this gradually falls to normal in the course of a week or ten days, and in a very short time signs of diminution in the size of the skull become evident. This diminution goes on steadily to a most striking degree, the skull bones falling in and overlapping one another, and at the base, where the bones cannot fall in to the same extent, a sharp line of rigid bone is usually left. The result in the course of a few weeks is the entire disappearance of the distension of the head and the production of a most curiously deformed small skull. The results of these attempts have clearly proved the truth of the views as regards the regulation of the cerebro-spinal fluid in the cranial cavity, and, in so far as the part played by the distension of the lateral ventricles in the production of hydrocephalus is concerned, our attempts have led to a complete cure of that affection. Nevertheless in these congenital cases the children have usually died at the end of about four months with symptoms, such as retraction of the head and rigidity, indicating continued extension of the basal meningitis and this in spite of energetic anti-syphilitic treatment.