BENIGN TUMOURS. 437 When complete removal has been effected, the patient should be kept under observation in order that any recurrence may be at once dealt with. Any slight irregularities left after removal will gradually shrink up without any further treatment, provided the patient entirely rests the voice. The various applications for preventing recurrence or producing shrivelling of the growths, such as salicylic acid in alcohol, perchloride of iron, etc., that have been highly recommended are all unreliable. Chromic acid applied very carefully by means of a probe or carrier may hasten the disappearance of a small nodule, but it is liable to excite irritation. The internal administration of arsenic rarely has any effect. Should a large mass of growths be situated below the vocal cords, attempts may be made to reach it with a long pair of forceps or a snare, but in some cases of this kind intra-laryngeal methods will fail. As however a growth in this position produces no effect upon the voice it Fig. 142.—Mackenzie's Cutting Laryngeal Forceps (modified). need not be removed unless from its size it obstructs the lumen of the larynx sufficiently to cause dyspnoea. In such cases a high tracheotomy (see p. 248) should be done, the wound in the trachea held open, and the growth removed from below with a small pair of laryngeal forceps. This is usually quite readily accomplished, but, should it be necessary, the cricoid also may be divided to obtain freer access and a better view of the growth. The wound may be allowed to close at once as after thyrotomy (see p. 258), and the operation is attended by very little if any risk. If the incision into the wind-pipe be limited to the trachea or at the most to the cricoid, there is no danger of interference with the voice. . In children—-If the child can be trained to submit to the operation above detailed, this method should certainly be attempted, even if months are spent in the preliminary training, for the operation is free from risk and, if the child be once trained, it can be repeated as often as necessary. With sufficient care and patience this will usually succeed in patients over four years of age. In younger children, in those who cannot be trained,