AFFECTIONS OK THE LI PS. 119 all uncommon. Usually they form small isolated tumours, but sometimes the condition may extend over the whole lip, causing eversion and a very unpleasant deformity. Treatment.—For simple cysts it is usually sufficient to clip away the portion of the cyst-wall projecting into the mouth, which is easily done by painting over the mucous membrane with cocaine, seizing the pro- minent cyst in catch forceps and clipping it away with scissors, making sure that the cyst-wall is removed as well as the mucous membrane covering it. After the glairy fluid has escaped, the remainder of the cyst- wall may be pulled out with forceps or its interior may be touched with undiluted carbolic or nitric acid. In both cases it is important to see that the acid does not reach the surrounding mucous membrane. If nitric acid be used, the mouth should be freely washed out afterwards with a solution of carbonate of soda. The after-treatment consists merely in the use of a simple mouth-wash of chlorate of potash or sanitas (see p. 116). When there is a diffuse cystic condition along the lip this is readily remedied by excising the projecting' mass containing the cysts to a sufficient extent to restore the lip to its proper shape. The operation is very similar to that for hypertrophied lip (see p. 115). The edges of the wound are brought together with catgut and a simple mouth-wash employed subsequently. EPITHELIOMA.—The lower lip is a very common seat of epithelioma, which generally occurs towards one side and is often looked on as associated with the irritation caused by smoking clay pipes. The affection was however well known long before the introduction of tobacco into Europe. Both the flat, slow-growing, and the more rapid tuberous forms may be met with, and the cases vary considerably in malignancy. On the whole, the growth, which occurs generally in old people, is not very malig- nant, and it is not uncommon for patients after excision to remain free from further trouble for the rest of their lives. If left alone, the disease gradually destroys the lip, causing constant dribbling of saliva, difficulty in taking food, etc. It may spread from the lower lip to the upper, often extends to the lower jaw and gives rise to infection of the glands either in the sub-mental or the sub-maxillary regions, usually the latter. Its point of origin is generally at the junction of the cutaneous with the mucous surface. When it arises on the latter, the growth is generally more rapid in its course and glandular infection occurs earlier than when it arises on the cutaneous surface. Treatment.—The treatment is early and free excision. As a rule a triangular portion with its apex downwards should be removed from the entire thickness of the lower lip. It is possible in some cases, where the disease is very superficial and has spread for some distance along the lip, to remove half the thickness of the lip only, but, if the incision has to be carried deep, imperfect closure of the mouth is apt to result. When the growth is situated near one angle of the mouth it is well to prolong the V-shaped