433 CEDEMA OF THE LARYNX. aneurisms or tumours in the neck. There is also a peculiar affection which has been called acute angio-neurotic oedema, which occurs in con- nection with a similar disease of the skin. Treatment.—The cause must be sought for and, if possible, removed. Otherwise the treatment is similar to that of cedematous laryngitis (see p. 431). The patient must be confined to bed in a warm equable temperature. Occasionally moist air is beneficial, but as a rule scarification is required and must be carried out with all the precautions above described ; should it fail, tracheotomy must be performed. PERICHONDRITIS, NECROSIS OF CARTILAGE, AND LARYNGEAL ABSCESS. ACUTE PERICHONDRITIS.—This is usually of septic origin. It may result from traumatism, such as the lodgment of a foreign body, the passage of an oesophageal bougie, and especially the retention of a hard feeding tube in position for some days or weeks, or it may occur in con- nection with fevers, such as typhoid, or in spreading inflammation of the adjoining regions. Thus an abscess in the neck may spread and expose the laryngeal cartilages. Symptoms.—The affection is very acute, and is accompanied by con- siderable pain, dysphagia, and loss of voice. There is tenderness and swelling in the laryngeal region; dyspnoea and severe constitutional dis- turbance. When the affection occurs in the course of diseases such as typhoid, the laryngeal symptoms are often masked by the general condition. Laryngoscopic examination reveals swelling and oedema of the affected part or sometimes of almost the entire larynx, and marked impairment of movement. An abscess may be seen, and is recognised by a yellowish prominent spot in the centre of the inflammatory region. Treatment.—In the early stages the treatment is similar to that for cedematous laryngitis (see p. 431) for which the affection is often mistaken. When it is obvious that perichondritis is present, and especially when there is any sign of external swelling of the larynx, it is well to make an external incision right down to the laryngeal cartilages. In children it will usually be necessary to do a preliminary tracheotomy, but in adults this is often avoidable. The incision may usually be made under local anaes- thesia, such as freezing with ethyl-chloride, and should be in the middle line extending from just below the hyoid bone nearly to the lower border of the thyroid cartilage, unless there be bulging in any particular region, when the incision should be made there. The incision should be left open, a small strip of cyanide gauze being inserted, and as a rule im- mediate relief will follow, especially if pus be evacuated. Should, however, the dyspnoea continue to increase, tracheotomy must be performed. Leeches may be applied over the larynx, but are not nearly so efficient as the incision above recommended. Should the affection go on to necrosis of pt. v. 2 E