134 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. ovale, so that the blunt point might protect the dura mater or other infra-cranial structures by pushing them before it. To do so, the trephine was, roughly speaking, held in such a position that its axis was parallel to the external pterygoid plate. The handle of the trephine was then depressed and kept as far back as possible; but from the pressure of the soft parts it was always applied at an angle, and not perpendicular to the surface, a proceeding not altogether undesirable, inasmuch as thereby the integrity of the carotid canal could be more readily maintained. The close contiguity of this structure had to be carefully kept in view during this stage of the operation, and, indeed, there is only the inner border of the great wing of the sphenoid, measuring from 2 to 4 turns, in thickness, intervening between it and the foramen ovale. By holding the trephine at this angle, the outer segment of the bony circle was cut through first; the bone could then be broken off on the inner side along the sutural line between the apex of the petrous bone and the great wing of the sphenoid, and thus the carotid canal remained uninjured. The disc of bone being now set free by an elevator, will fit like a collar over the stump of the divided nerve, and can be slipped over it. In one or two of my cases I noticed a definite constriction of the nerve at this point. "In Case IV., I made an important modification by trephining in addition the great wing of the sphenoid anterior and a little external to the foramen. The trephine openings were then united by removing the intervening bridge of bone by a careful use of chisel and mallet. During this process the dura mater, which had been previously loosened around the openings, was protected by a copper spatula, and held up out of the way, for when unsupported it bulged through the opening. As will be seen by reference to the account of my cases which I append, this patient did well, but during the first 48 hours after the operation she had a certain amount of epistaxis and also vomited some grumous material, like coffee grounds, which was evidently altered blood. The source of this was a matter of considerable anxiety to me; it evidently did not come from either the sphenoidal sinus or the antrum, as these were in no way interfered with, but on careful examination of the base of the skull the relationship of the Eustachian tube, which had been previously overlooked, seemed clearly to indicate whence the bleeding was derived. This structure lies in immediate contiguity to the ridge of bone which forms the inner boundary both of the foramen ovale and spinosuni. A groove will be found in this position in most skulls extending backward to the point of attachment of the tube to the petrous portion of the temporal bone and forward to the base of the pterygoid process ; and this depression is occupied by the cartilaginous portion of the tube. It is highly probable that in removing a disc of bone, half an inch in diameter, with the foramen ovale as its centre, this structure will be encroached upon, laying the wound open to the risk of septic contamination from the pharynx. This consideration was one of several which induced me to alter my plan of operation in the last case I dealt with ; I applied the trephine to the great wing of the sphenoid a little anterior and external to the foramen, and in such a way that the circumference of the disc just impinged on its outer wall (see Figs. 38, 39). The opening thus made can be subsequently enlarged, if necessary, in any direction desirable. It must not be forgotten that the thickness of the skull is very unequal, being thinner on the outer margin of the trephine track than on the inner ; and inasmuch as the instrument is necessarily applied at an angle, the outer half will be cut through before the inner. This fact renders damage to the dura possible in spite of the most careful precautions. " Removal of the ganglion.—Having repressed the prominent dura with a spatula, the trunk of the third division, which during all these preliminary proceedings has been care- Fig. 39.—Position of the Trephine Hole in Removal of the Gasserian Ganglion. 7\ = Trephine-hole. F.O.- Foramen ovale. F.S. = Foramen spin- osum. (Rose.)