THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. 26 a drainage tube inserted at the most dependent part; a stitch should also be put in the puncture through the scalp. In the case of gutter fractures it may be impossible to turn aside a flap, and the opening must simply be enlarged as much as may be necessary and the edges of the wound held aside. The fracture is then dealt with as described above, the trephine being applied to the side on which there is the greater depression. After-treatment.—The chief danger is septic infection of the wound followed by suppuration between the skull and the dura mater, beneath the latter (i.e. lepto-meningitis), or in the brain itself, and also possibly by hernia cerebri. The treatment of these conditions will be considered in due course and we need only refer to them here. Their avoidance will of course depend essentially on the care with which the disinfection of the wound is carried out, and if this be successful, septic inflammation will not occur. At the same time, when the dura mater is torn, even though the wound be aseptic, a certain amount of protrusion of the brain may take place and be difficult to deal with because the wound in the soft parts probably lies directly over the rent in the dura. In aseptic cases, however, this protrusion as a rule gives rise to comparatively little trouble and diminishes as the wound contracts. It is well to change the dressing on the day following the operation and subsequently according to the amount of discharge. The drainage tube should be removed about the fourth day, provided there be no sign of septic inflammation. The bowels should be kept open from the first and the patient should be restricted to a fluid diet without any stimulants. At the end of a few days, if there be no signs of cerebral irritation or inflammation, such as increased frequency of the pulse, persistent head- ache, elevation of temperature, or delirium, the diet may be cautiously increased and the patient gradually allowed to sit up and in the course of two or three weeks to get out of bed. FRACTURES OF THE BASE OF THE SKULL. Fractures of the base are generally fissured fractures, although sometimes, when the injury has been very severe, portions of the base may actually be loose and very extensively comminuted. The fissures are generally widespread both about the base of the skull and also up the sides and even towards the vault (see Fig. it). In almost all there is considerable haemorrhage from the torn vessels, part of which escapes externally and part of which accumulates within the skull. When the dura mater is torn, as it usually is, there is also escape of cerebro-spinal fluid from the sub- arachnoid space, and there may also be an escape of brain substance. The fractures are almost always compound in some part of their course and consequently there is a great risk of septic complications. Many open into the ear or the nose, and sub-dural abscess or suppurative lepto-menin- gitis may occur. These fractures of the base are very serious injuries both on account