106 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. twenty-four hours, forming dark brown crusts which show rather more than the original marks. These crusts fall off in about three days and the process is practically complete with the exception of possibly a little redness. Patients differ a good deal in the rapidity with which their skins recover the normal appearance, and for those who have a tendency to pustular acne it is a safe plan to prescribe frequent dabbing with a one in four thousand lotion of perchloride of mercury to prevent infection of the destroyed follicles. It is wiser not to exceed this strength, as sublimate lotions have a tendency to stimulate the growth of hair. " From this it will be seen that the same area may usually be gone over twice in one week but on no account oftener. " As regards the patient's sensations, if the electrode is not grasped until after the needle is well engaged in the follicle and is dropped before the needle is withdrawn, the pain is not great, and is usually described as irritating rather than severe. The chin is usually far less painful than the upper lip and the centre of the latter is much more sensitive than the outer parts. " It should be remembered that the patient would prefer to have a hair return and let it be destroyed on another occasion to being marked with a permanent scar. It is therefore wise to err on the side of too weak rather than unnecessarily strong currents. With care and experience, however, even with the use of very moderate currents relapses should not be more than one per cent. "It is, however, advisable in the case of young women in whom the growth of hair is obviously progressive, to be careful in explaining that the treatment does not prevent the growth of hair in other parts of the skin, and that, until either all the hair is destroyed or the progressive growth stops, the treatment will have to be renewed from time to time. " For the destruction of small hairy moles the method of procedure is almost identical. Owing to the facts that the hair is almost invariably stronger and that a scar must necessarily result from the destruction of the mole it is usual to work with a stronger current (5 milliamperes). All the hairs in the mole should be first carefully removed, and after a few days, if the mole has not been entirely effaced in the process of destroying the hairs, the needle may be run through it in various directions and the current passed until the whole growth looks white and tensely distended with the gas. The result is a perfectly even, white scar, somewhat smaller than the original growth. "Where the patient demands an anaesthetic for these small operations the following method of introducing cocaine through the unbroken skin by cataphoresis may prove useful. "A io°/0 solution of cocaine (the alkaloid itself, not the hydrochlorate) in pure guaiacol is used. A piece of clean blotting paper is soaked in the solution and placed on the area to be antesthetised and a suitably shaped incorrodible electrode is placed on the top of it. This electrode is connected with the positive pole, and a current of about four or five milliamperes passed