INTRA CRANIAL SUPPURATION. 55 be inserted, stitches put in the flap and an antiseptic dressing applied. Even when the case is one of compound fracture, it is well to bring the edges of the skin together if possible, after providing for free drainage, because there is a very great risk of the occurrence of hernia cerebri,— a condition which will be treated of more in detail later on. The after-treatment of the case is simply that of an abscess, and if all goes on well, the patient generally recovers rapidly. If the contrary be the case it will be from extension of the suppuration to the meninges, from the formation of an independent cerebral abscess, or from the occurrence of hernia cerebri; these conditions must be treated in the manner described under their respective headings. Diffuse Lepto-Meningitis.—When the inflammation extends to the sub-dural space and there are no adhesions to localise it, the disease rapidly spreads over the surface of the entire hemisphere; it is usually most marked about the seat of infection and spreads thence towards the base of the brain and then along the spinal cord. After a short time the brain becomes covered with pus and lymph, and it is probable that the surface of the brain is also involved in the inflammatory process ; at any rate there is usually some softening with or without hemorrhagic infiltration. The disease is one of extreme gravity and is characterised by pyrexia, distressing headache, gradually increasing drowsiness and often by delirium and epileptiform convulsions. At first cerebration may be over-active and the intelligence unimpaired, but in the later stages the patient becomes more and more unconscious. The pulse is at first very rapid, but later on, when symptoms of compression appear, it becomes slow, full and bounding. There may be rigors, and the temperature, at first continuously high, may later on assume a hectic character. There may be various motor paralyses, especially affecting the cranial nerves. There is often a good deal of rigidity of the limbs and retraction of the head. Treatment.—When the disease is once established there is very little prospect of effecting a cure. If there be a scalp wound with a fissure of the skull, the wound should be enlarged and the bone freely removed with the trephine and Hoffman's forceps. The dura mater is then laid widely open so as to provide the best possible opportunity for the escape of the pus. Additional trephine holes may be made towards the base of the skull, and an attempt may be made to wash out the pus with a gentle stream of sterilised salt solution (.75 per cent.) or warm boracic lotion. As a rule however no particular good will follow these operations in the true diffuse form of the affection ; they are only likely to succeed when there is a more or less localised collection of pus. The disease is so extensive that it is impossible to cleanse the whole surface of the brain, which is itself cedematous and swollen and more closely in contact with the skull than usual, so that fluid introduced, even under considerable pressure, will not diffuse itself over the surface sufficiently to wash away the pus. Again, drainage, whether effected by tubes or by horsehair passed between the