344 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. It should be noted that if pus re appears in the nose immediately after washing out the antrum, there are such strong probabilities of other cavities being involved that they should be at once explored and treated if found diseased. The radical cure.—A cure cannot be expected from the above methods when there are secondary changes in the lining membrane of the antrum, such as polypi or caries of the antral walls, when the antrum contains a foreign body or when it simply acts as a reservoir for pus coming from the other cavities. Also it may be said that the longer suppuration has persisted the less is the likelihood of a cure, but no hard and fast time limit can be fixed, for many cases have been cured after pus has been present for many months or even years. But even if these methods of treatment fail to effect a cure, the patient may yet feel so well that he prefers to remain as he is and to continue the daily irrigations rather than undergo a radical operation. In these circumstances there is probably but little danger of further trouble provided irrigation be practised regularly, and patients will often wear tubes without harm for many years. In a few cases however caries of the anterior wall of the antrum may ensue with painful swelling of the cheek and the formation of an abscess, or in other cases an abscess may form in the hard palate. Occasionally necrosis and perforation of the inner wall occurs leading to a large communication between the antrum and the inferior meatus; but this is rather an advantage than otherwise. A more frequent cause of trouble is the formation of polypi in the antral cavity rendering irrigation impossible. A patient who declines to undergo a radical operation should therefore be warned of the above risks and told that an operation may at some future time become necessary. Indicatio?is.—The more radical methods of treatment of suppuration in the antrum must now be considered. A thorough operation is always to be recommended (i) When there is distension of the walls of the antrum or inflammation of the overlying tissues. (2) When an external sinus com- municates with its cavity. (3) When polypi are present, or caries of the walls of the antrum. (4) When the above-mentioned simpler methods fail to effect a cure. In connection with this last point it is safe to say that if the discharge does not greatly diminish after the first few washings, and if it continues in any quantity after three months' treatment, a cure can hardly be expected. It is true that a case is occasionally reported in which irrigation is successful after having been continued for six months or even a year, but this is quite exceptional. In all operations devised for the radical cure of suppuration in a large bony cavity like the antrum the points to remember are that the rigid walls will not collapse, that the cavity is too large to fill with granulation tissue and that the natural opening will not allow of efficient drainage. Obliteration being therefore impossible, the aim of surgical measures must be to provide suitable permanent drainage. Thus the old method of