213 DENTAL CYSTS. from the remains of the dental organ. These multilocular cystic tumours may occur at any age, but are most frequent in youth. Their growth is very slow, but it may become more rapid from the development of sarcoma or epithelioma in the wall of the cavities ; recurrence is then liable to take place after operation. A considerable number of - the so-called multilocular cystic tumours of the lower jaw are in reality cysts developed in tumours, especially myeloid sarcomata. Treatment.—The treatment of dentigerous and simple cysts is the same and consists in more or less complete removal of the cyst wall, which in most cases can be carried out from the mouth. The mucous membrane is reflected from the swelling, the outer wall of the cyst cut away either with scissors or with pliers, the lining membrane of the cavity scraped out and any contained tooth removed, or, in the case of simple cysts, the tooth with which the cyst is apparently connected extracted. In addition to scraping the cavity so as to get rid of the lining membrane of the cyst, it is well to thoroughly gouge its surface and afterwards to sponge it with undiluted carbolic acid; it should then be lightly stuffed with strips of cyanide gauze and allowed to granulate. In no case is it necessary to excise a portion of the jaw. After-treatment.—The packing should be renewed twice daily and should be continued until the cavity has become obliterated. An antiseptic mouth- wash (sanitas, boro-glyceride, etc.), should be frequently used, especially when the packing is changed. The treatment of multilocular cystic tumours of the lower jaw is not so easy. There the removal of the mass is the more necessary on account of the tendency to development of malignant disease subsequently, and in a good many cases the thorough removal of the growth can only be carried out by excision of the portion of the jaw involved. The methods for partial excisions of the jaws will be found on p. 220 and p. 226. NEW GROWTHS OF THE JAWS. Various simple tumours occur in connection with the jaws, of which we may mention exostoses, fibromata, chondromata, myxomata and lipomata. These tumours may occur either on the surface of the bones or may spring from their interior, and are perhaps more frequent on the lower jaw than on the upper. Their treatment presents no feature of special importance. EPULIS.—The term "epulis" is applied to growths of very different histological characters and is merely a generic term applied to growths springing from the margin of the gum. These tumours are in some cases of inflammatory origin, in others they may be new growths, such as fibromata or sarcomata, either myeloid, round or spindle-celled ; more rarely still they may be angiomata. The tumours probably arise in connection with the periodontal membrane and usually as a result of dental caries. They