IOO THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. wound together with subcutaneous sutures (see Part I., p. 154). This method may give a perfect result, the disease being entirely removed and the scar in a short time becoming quite unnoticeable. Unfortunately, cases seldom come under the care of the surgeon at such an early date, but the practitioner should always be on the look-out for the chance of cutting short the disease in this satisfactory manner. Excision is also of value when the disease is more extensive; if it be carried wide enough it cures the disease absolutely and with far less scarring and deformity than is likely to result from any other method. Hence we do not limit excision to those early cases in which the edges of the wound can be brought together. Even in extensive cases of lupus of the cheek it is often possible to excise the patch and to fill the gap left by raising a flap of skin from the neighbourhood. This is done on the lines described for the plastic surgery of the face (see Chap. XII.). The result is that, instead of having extensive scarring and probably a persistent disease, as is so common after the treatment by other methods, all that is left is a few linear scars which in time become inconspicuous. Even when the patch is so large as to contra-indicate the plastic operation, the results of excision are likely to be much better than those that can be obtained by other methods—with the possible exception of the " light-bath " treatment which is still on its trial—because Thiersch's skin-grafts can be applied immediately to the surface left by excision, and, if these be cut large enough, the scar resulting is very much superior to that obtained by any method followed by cicatrisation. It is advisable that the grafts be applied immediately to the wound because there is then less contraction than if granulation be allowed to occur before the grafts are used. The best dressing for these cases is the quarter-strength boracic ointment spread very thickly on butter-muslin and fastened in position with gauze and collodion. This is better than fastening on the dressing with a bandage, because the latter is apt to be displaced by the movements of the head, and this will almost certainly entail mechanical detachment of the grafts—an accident that is especially liable to happen in children. We have treated many cases of facial lupus of all degrees of severity in this manner, and we have been very much pleased with the results obtained. In order to be successful, the excision must be carried freely beyond the edge of the disease and well into the fat beneath. The chief point in the technique is to obtain a level surface upon which to place the grafts. In order to do this the blade of the knife should be kept horizontal as the skin is being raised. We have lately found that the operation is much facilitated by substituting a razor for the ordinary scalpel. The bleeding generally stops from the mere exposure to the air. Should any trouble be experienced in arresting it, the larger vessels should be twisted and the oozing surface douched with iced water or, if that fails, alternately with that and water at a temperature of 110° Fahr. It is very difficult to stop the bleeding by pressure as recommended for grafting in other situations