MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE LOWER JAW. 225 Fig. 78.—Incision for Removal of the Lower Jaw. The thick black line de is the one referred to. divided with the saw, if possible a little to one side of the middle line, so as to leave the attachment of the tongue muscles. The flap being held up, the mucous membrane is divided all along the outer side of the jaw, after which, by pulling the jaw outwards, the mucous membrane on the inner side is also divided. The jaw is now forcibly de- pressed while the flap is held up; this brings the coronoid process into view and, by cutting on it, the tendon of the temporal muscle is gradually divided ; the jaw will then depress much more freely. In some cases, either because the size of the tumour prevents proper de- pression of the jaw, or because of the extra length of the coronoid process, it is very difficult to divide the muscle satisfactorily, and under such circum- stances it is best to snip across the coronoid process with bone pliers and dissect it out after the lower jaw has been removed. Finally the jaw is firmly depressed and pulled outwards while the ligaments around the articula- tion are divided. In some cases indeed the jaw can be forcibly pulled out, but it is generally well to divide the external ligaments at any rate. Care must be taken to cut close to the bone and especial care must be taken in turning the jaw outwards not to twist the soft parts out with it; otherwise the internal maxillary artery may be divided. As a rule, when the ligaments on the outer side are divided the jaw may be pulled out. After the jaw has been removed, the soft parts must be carefully examined to see that no growth is left behind; the sub-maxillary and the anterior triangles, should also be investigated and if necessary opened up to make sure that there is no glandular disease. The bleeding is arrested, the raw surface sponged over with chloride of zinc solution (grs. 40 to the oz.), and the incision is sutured with silkworm-gut or horsehair. It is well to introduce a drainage tube projecting into the mouth opposite the angle of the jaw; the ordinary cyanide dressings are applied. The patient is put back to bed, propped up with pillows and the head turned towards the side operated on, so that the discharge may readily escape. After-treatment.—To check the capillary bleeding, the patient should suck small pieces of ice wrapped in fine muslin. The dressing will require changing two or three times a day for the first few days. After the fifth day the drainage tube can be taken out, washed, and a suitable portion of it cut off; the remainder is then put in the external part of the tract; as the tube no longer projects into the mouth, the communication with the pt. v. p