THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS. 218 of the jaw. As soon as it is raised, sponges are firmly applied over the surface, and the chief bleeding points are seized and twisted. The most troublesome bleeding occurs about the inner angle of the orbit; it is chiefly venous and usually stops after a time if the bleeding points be grasped in a pair of forceps. The capillary oozing quickly stops under pressure. The next step in the operation is to detach the periosteum from the orbital margin and push it upwards carrying with it the orbital fat and the eye, and then to introduce a copper spatula beneath it and the eye so as to keep them out of harm's way. The surgeon then proceeds to divide the various connections of the upper jaw. In the first place, the junction of the malar bone with the superior maxilla is sawn through and then the junction of the superior maxilla with the frontal at the ex- ternal angular process (see Fig. 77). Attention is next directed to the palate. The mouth is opened, a central incisor removed and a trans- verse incision made along the posterior edge of the hard palate, separating the soft palate as far inwards as the middle line. The hard palate is then divided in the middle line from behind forwards by an incision ex- tending down to the bone and then upwards over the alveolus into the nostril. The alveolus and the hard palate are sawn across with a narrow saw introduced into the nose; the division is generally completed with a long pair of cutting pliers. The orbital surface of the superior maxil- lary bone is now divided with a small saw and a pair of cutting pliers, one blade of which is introduced into the orbit and one into the nose. The forceps are then pushed well back and, using the bridge of the nose as a fulcrum, the upper jaw is forcibly levered out. As soon as the posterior attachments are felt to give way, the upper jaw is seized with a pair of lion forceps, taking hold of the alveolar and orbital margins, and rapidly twisted out. In some cases it comes out intact; in others, when it is extensively diseased, it breaks down and only a part comes away. In any case one ■or two large sponges should be at once packed into the cavity from which the jaw has been torn to arrest the bleeding; after a short time these sponges must be cautiously raised, any bleeding point of consequence Fig. 77.—Likes of Bone-Section in Removal of the UPPER Jaw.—The nasal bone is separated from the nasal process of the superior maxilla with a chisel and turned aside.