194 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS. The prognosis is very satisfactory when the fracture is simple; when however it is compound, suppuration occasionally occurs at the point of communication with the mouth and actual necrosis may take place, although that is comparatively rare. Should suppuration occur, the region from which the pus is coming should be thoroughly drained, usually by a drainage tube introduced from the mouth, and if the antrum be opened, it should be frequently syringed out with antiseptic solutions, such as sanitas, Condy's fluid or boracic lotion. Any necrosed portions of bone must be removed as soon as they are loose. Ha7fiorrhage from the infra-orbital artery sometimes gives rise to con- siderable trouble. If the skin be unbroken, the application of an ice-bag to the cheek will generally control it. If there be a wound connected with the fracture, the bleeding point should be sought for and if possible secured. If this be impossible, the wound should be firmly plugged with strips of cyanide gauze. Sometimes however the vessel retracts within the bony canal, and the canal must either be opened up or the orifice plugged with Horsley's wax (see p. 47). The objection to the latter procedure is the pressure which the wax must also exert on the infra-orbital nerve. Ligature of the external carotid artery has been employed to check the haemorrhage, but that is hardly likely to be necessary; it would be much better to open up the infra-orbital canal sufficiently to secure the vessel. FRACTURE OF THE MALAR BONE.—This fracture is extremely rare and is practically always associated with fracture of other bones of the face, especially of the adjacent portions of the superior maxilla. It usually results from severe direct injury which drives the bone downwards and backwards and forces in the anterior wall of the antrum. Fracture of the orbital plate of the superior maxilla may also be produced when the blow is applied more horizontally. Treatment.—This must be directed towards remedying the displace- ment. In some cases by introducing the finger into the mouth and passing it up between the cheek and the upper jaw, the bone may be pressed outwards; if this fails, a small incision may be made anterior to the masseter muscle and a raspatory introduced beneath the bone so as to lever it up into position. FRACTURE OF THE ZYGOMATIC ARCH.—This is a rare injury usually the result of direct violence, and associated with fracture of the malar bone. When the fracture is due to direct violence, the fragments are generally depressed, whilst, when it results from fracture of the malar bone, the fractured ends are protruded somewhat outwards. Treatment.—The fragments must be brought into good position, otherwise the mbvements of the lower jaw are apt to be considerably interfered with. This may be attempted first by manipulation from the outside or with the finger in the mouth, but, if it cannot be effected satisfactorily, an almost horizontal incision should be made over the arch, the fracture exposed, and the bones drilled and secured by silver wire.