91 Tl MOURS OF THE BRAIN. is well before proceeding further to transfer the markings on the scalp to the skull by driving a fine bradawl or drill through the seal]) into the skull at various points along the lines marking out the fissures and the supposed area of the tumour. A large crescentic incision is then made so that the opening in the bone shall lie in the centre of the flap, which must be large enough to permit of the removal of sufficient bone to fully expose the tumour. Before making a large flap of this kind it is well to compress its base so as to prevent loss of blood; when the incision is large it may be worth while to apply elastic tubing tightly round the skull, from the root of the nose in front and beneath the external protuberance behind. The incision is then carried down to the bone and the pericranium is raised with the flap. There is usually very little danger to the vitality of the flap, because the base is large, but it is always well to plan it so that the main vessels shall enter the base. After the flap has been turned aside to some extent, the tourniquet should be released and the various bleeding vessels clamped. When the flap is large, the assistant can usually compress the greater part of the edge between his fingers, leaving a portion uncompressed, in which the surgeon rapidly clamps the vessels; another portion of the flap is released by the assistant and the vessels clamped, and in this way the loss of blood is reduced to a minimum. When the flap has been fully reflected and the haemorrhage stopped, the skull is opened. The marks made by the bradawl are first identified and the amount of bone to be removed is decided upon. In some cases it is sufficient to make a single large trephine hole and then to enlarge the opening with Hoffman's forceps. This is however generally very tedious, especially when there is a large tumour, and in that case four small trephine holes should be made at what will be the angles of the opening, and these are then connected by means of Hoffman's forceps, or by a Hey's or a Gigli's saw1 (see p. 38). The simplest of all, if it be obtainable, is a circular saw worked by an electric or a hand motor; this has the additional advantage that the incisions are made with great rapidity. If it be hoped to complete the operation at one sitting, the portions of bone removed may be kept either under the scalp (see p. 22), or in boracic lotion at a temperature of 100° F., with a view to replacing them at the end of the operation, but if, as is usually the case, the operation be divided into two stages, there is of course no necessity for doing this. The above method of opening the skull is applicable to the majority of cases met with in practice. There will rarely be any chance of replacing the bone and therefore the most rapid method of making a large enough opening will be the best. Occasionally, however, especially in small and non malignant tumours it may be possible to remove the tumour entirely, and it then 1 If a Gigli's saw be used a thin copper spatula must be inserted between the dura mater and the saw after the latter is in position. Unless this be done, the under surface of the wire saw, which cuts as freely as the upper, will wound the dura, as the intra-cranial tension is sure to press it up against the saw.