3«8 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE EAR. associated with serous exudation, than in those which are of a purely dry type. It is much better in the young than in the old, although progressive cases advance more quickly in the young. The most unfavourable signs are the existence of extensive adhesions, marked unyielding occlusion of the Eustachian tube and long duration of the affection. Treatment.—The first point to be attended to is the condition of the upper-air passages and especially of the nose and naso-pharynx. Any catarrhal affection of these regions must be energetically treated. Adenoids or any excess of lymphoid tissue in the post-nasal space must be removed by operation. Also it is advisable to correct any nasal defect, such as deflections of the septum, or hypertrophies of the turbinates whenever they give rise to actual symptoms of nasal obstruction, or if they are apparently keeping up catarrh in this region. At the same time excessive operative zeal in this direction must be guarded against. The removal of small growths not giving rise to definite symptoms will not be followed by any benefical effect upon the ear trouble. Of tlie Eustachian obstruction.—The second point is to restore if possible the patency of the Eustachian tubes and in the first place the catheter should always be employed. The inflation may be repeated every other day for a week to ten days, when, should no improvement, even temporary, be produced, it should be discontinued. Should however improvement occur the catheterization should be continued regularly at increasing intervals, so long as the improvement is maintained. In some cases its effect may be increased by injecting a drop or two of paroleine by means of a pipette into the catheter and driving it sharply into the ear with the air douche. Other fluids may be used, such as a 10% sterilised solution of bicarbonate of soda or potassium iodide, but as a rule they produce little benefit. If, as the result of treatment, the tubes become more patent, or if the case be not severe, Politzer's method of inflation may be substituted for catheteri- zation. This is specially useful, as it may be carried out by the patient himself; he must be cautioned however not to use it oftener than two or three times a week. When the obstruction of the tube does not yield to simple inflation, the regular use of Eustachian bougies has been recom- mended ; the greatest care is required, and the bougie should not be passed further than half an inch into the tube. Temporary benefit may undoubtedly follow, but no permanent advantage is likely to be obtained. Removal of fluid.—This may occasionally be accomplished by Eustachian inflation. The air entering the tympanum forcibly distends the membrane and may break down soft adhesions, thus setting the fluid free and allowing it to escape down the tube. If this manoeuvre be unsuccessful the drum should be incised through the most prominent bulging part (see p. 385). Where the whole membrane is distended the posterior-inferior quadrant should be selected for puncture. The opening should always be free, as in this way the fluid is more completely evacuated and the incision, healing quickly, leaves no permanent damage. When the fluid is tenacious it may not escape