3o8 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. always leads to patency of the nostrils,—often to undue patency,—and for some months afterwards the patient may suffer from dryness of the mucous membrane, which is not limited to the nose, but extends to the post-nasal space, the pharynx and the larynx. This however generally yields in time, and should be treated on the lines laid down for the treatment of rhinitis sicca (see below). In a few cases however a condition not unlike atrophic rhinitis has been produced, and therefore the operation is not one to be lightly decided upon, especially if the patient be a professional voice-user. RHINITIS SICCA.—Rhinitis sicca consists essentially in a dryness of the mucous membrane of the nose, and is met with in two entirely distinct conditions. Varieties and. Causes.—In the one form, the mucous membrane of the nose is congested, swollen and red, and small blackish crusts are seen on the septum, on the middle, and occasionally on the inferior turbinate. This form is most common in men about middle life, and especially amongst those addicted to alcohol: in some cases it is associ- ated with gout. Women may be affected under similar conditions. In the other form, the dryness of the mucous membrane is associated with considerable anaemia, both local and general. It is most common in weakly women and especially in those who suffer from dyspepsia, consti- pation and similar troubles. In both forms, the affection is aggravated if the patient be exposed to unfavourable local conditions, such as the inhalation of dust, flour, etc., or by dwelling in unventilated, hot, over- crowded rooms. Pathological results.—There is a special tendency for the crusts to be deposited on the anterior part of the septum, and these the patient is very apt to remove with the finger or by violently blowing the nose. As the crusts adhere firmly, their detachment causes excoriation of the mucous membrane, and in this way the epithelium becomes injured, the crusts adhere still more firmly and actual ulceration may occur. The epithelium, as it is reproduced, tends in time to lose its cilia, and to become more squamous in form. If the source of irritation still continue, the picking at the nose will produce a deeper ulceration which will soon affect the perichondrium; even the cartilage may be gradually eaten away, and perforation of the cartilaginous septum may occur. This perforation is at first quite small, but the crusts continue to adhere to its edges and it consequently enlarges until it may become the size of a sixpence or even larger, but the bony septum is never attacked. Another result of rhinitis sicca is epistaxis, which is due to detachment of crusts from the excoriated surface of the septum. Enlarged venules are often seen crossing the affected area and a tiny blood-clot may be found, the removal of which will at once produce bleeding. Epistaxis is exceed- ingly frequent, being repeated daily or even oftener but usually only to a small amount.