245 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE AIR PASSAGES. it is better to continue the operation and perform a partial thyrotomy so as to remove the foreign body immediately. For this purpose, when the trachea has been opened, a Hahn's cannula should be introduced, or the packing above described (see p. 239) should be inserted above an ordinary tracheotomy tube. The incision is then extended vertically upwards, the cricoid cartilage is split in the middle line together with as much of the thyroid cartilage as may be necessary for free inspection of the interior of the larynx. It is of course highly desirable to avoid splitting the thyroid cartilage completely, so as not to risk any disturbance of the vocal cords. When the thyrotomy has been done, a smooth foreign body can usually be pushed up from below into the pharynx; failing this, it may be grasped with forceps which are then pushed up into the pharynx and the foreign body is seized from the mouth. Unless the body be very small, there is a risk of lacerating the vocal cords if attempts be made to pull it downwards through the glottis. When the foreign body is angular and its removal therefore is likely to lead to laceration of the parts above the cords, as for example an artificial tooth fixed with a hook, it is essential to split the thyroid cartilage completely. After the body has been extracted, the edges of the cartilages should be accurately united and the wound closed above the tracheotomy tube. Should the thyroid cartilage be only partially divided, its accurate closure is quite simple. Should it be necessary to split it entirely, it is well before doing so to make a superficial transverse incision across the front of the cartilage, so as to provide a guide for its accurate adaptation when its two halves are afterwards brought together. The tracheotomy tube should be left in for two or three days until all danger of oedema of the glottis has passed off. (b) Of foreign bodies in the trachea.—When the foreign body is in the trachea, immediate tracheotomy should be performed; when the body is loose a high tracheotomy will suffice. The opening should how- ever be free enough to permit the body to escape easily. The best procedure is to insert a sharp hook on each side of the middle line through the trachea before it is opened (see p. 249). The incision is then made and the hooks are pulled upwards and outwards on each side; the trachea is thus fixed and the incision into it widely dilated. When this is done, the surgeon should be on the alert to catch the foreign body should it be projected upwards opposite the incision. It has more than once happened that the foreign body has thus shown itself, but, the opening not being sufficiently free to enable it to escape, it has been sucked back and become impacted in the bronchus. As a rule, if the body be small and the trachea be sufficiently freely opened, it is at once shot out; should this not happen, the patient should be inverted and shaken, or coughing may be induced by tickling the interior of the trachea with a feather. Should this not be immediately successful, Golding Bird's trachea dilator (see Fig. 82) should be introduced and kept in position for