CHAPTER XXXIV. AFFECTIONS OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITORY MEATUS. IMPERFORATE MEATUS.—This is a rare deformity and is almost always associated with malformations of the auricle. The obstruction may be osseous or fleshy, but even in the most extreme cases there is a dimple or a cul-de-sac over the site of the meatus. Usually the deformity is associated with almost complete deafness, but occasionally there may be fair hearing by bone conduction. Treatment.—It is impossible to rectify the deformity of the auricle by any operative procedure. The most that can be done is to restore the auditory meatus, and this is only advisable in a few selected cases where there is a considerable amount of hearing power by bone conduction associated with some hearing by air conduction, especially when both sides are affected. A crucial incision should be made over the site of the dimple or cul-de-sac above mentioned, the flaps should be reflected and an attempt made to find the auditory meatus. Should the obstruction turn out to be osseous, the operation must be abandoned, as it is very dangerous to pro- ceed, and failure is almost certain. When the stricture consists of soft parts only, these should be cut away freely and the canal enlarged as much as possible by removing a slice of the bone from its posterior and upper surface. The canal should then be firmly packed until granulation is established, when the whole of the raw surface should be skin-grafted by Thiersch's method. The packing should be continued until healing is complete, and subsequently it may be necessary for the patient to wear a small ivory or silver tube to prevent recurrence of the stricture. Traumatic Stricture of meatus.—In very rare cases an imperforate or greatly constricted meatus is met with as the result of an injury, such as a burn or the insertion of corrosives into the ear, etc. In these conditions the attempt to restore the meatus should always be made and will generally succeed. As the amount of injury and deformity vary, no definite directions for operation can be given. In some cases a flap may be dissected up from the stricture, the latter excised and the flap used to cover some