17 AFFECTIONS OF THE SKULL. occurs over the frontal sinus, the anterior wall of which may be readily broken in without causing any fracture of the base or the neighbouring parts of the skull. The importance of these fractures is mainly determined by whether or not they are compound. When compound, they are naturally prone to become the seat of the various septic complications, and, as a matter of fact, except for some cases of fracture of the anterior wall of the frontal sinus, fractures of the outer table alone are almost always compound. Treatment.—(a) Of simple fracture.—When the fracture is not com- pound—e.g. fracture of the anterior wall of the frontal sinus—the treatment is comparatively simple. All that is necessary is to keep the patient at rest for a few days and to syringe the nose gently from time to time with boracic lotion or a weak solution of sanitas or Condy's fluid. As a rule simple fractures of the outer table both here and in the mastoid region unite rapidly and satisfactorily. (b) Of compound fracture.—When the fracture is compound, the treat- ment must be a combination of that required for a scalp wound and that for a compound fracture. The scalp and the wound in the soft parts must be thoroughly disinfected in the manner already described (see p. 7), after which the surface of the skull is carefully examined, any loose or projecting portions of bone removed and any obviously soiled area gouged or chiselled away. The bone and the soft parts are then swabbed freely with undiluted carbolic acid and a drainage tube of sufficient size is inserted before putting in the sutures. The dressing should be similar to that employed for scalp wounds and, if no septic complications occur within three days, the case may be looked upon as doing well and the drainage tube may be left out. FRACTURE OF THE INTERNAL TABLE ALONE.-It is only very rarely indeed that the internal table is broken without the external one being simultaneously fractured, but a few cases of the kind have been put on record. In children there may be a sort of green-stick fracture of the skull in which, as the result of a blow, the internal table gives way and the external table is simply bent inwards, thus giving rise to a saucer-like depression of the bone. Under such circumstances there are not neces- sarily any symptoms, unless there be a haemorrhage accompanying the injury to the skull. Treatment.—Unless the fractured portion of the internal table gives rise to symptoms of cerebral irritation or unless there be signs of compres- sion produced by some co-existing haemorrhage, the condition will of course not be recognised. Should these symptoms arise, the treatment appropriate to them must be had recourse to. Reference will be made to these cases presently. Usually if the cases of saucer-like depression in children be left alone and the child simply put to bed and an icebag applied, no symptoms pt. v. n