THE PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE FACE. 139 the method of repairing the lower lip (see Fig. 40) by means of straight incisions, which is so often figured in text-books, is not nearly so satisfactory as that with curved ones. In the former, a quadrilateral portion is excised in removing the lower lip, and to repair this gap incisions are carried vertically downwards into the neck from each extremity; the flap thus marked out is raised and pulled up to the original level of the lower lip and stitched in position. The result is a constant tendency for this flap to retract, and, as a consequence, the lower lip becomes pulled down and proper closure of the mouth is impossible. On the other hand, curved incisions allow the flaps to slide into position without tension, and, as there is not the same liability to subsequent contraction, there is not the same tendency to drooping of the lip afterwards. As the flap slides along, it will be found that there is more skin on one side of the incision than on the other, but, by arranging the A - B Fig. 40.—Restoration of the Lower Lip by means of Rectilinear Incisions— a Faulty Method. The rectangular gap left by the removal of the lower lip is filled by raising a rectangular flap, aide. This is done by carrying the incisions ab and cd vertically downwards to the hyoid bone. The mucous membrane is stitched to the skin along the line ac, and the flap pulled up and sutured, as shown in B. It is obvious that there must be a very considerable drag on the new lower lip as the scar contracts. stitches so that a little more skin is included between each stitch on the former side than on the latter, puckering at the base of the flap is avoided and the cicatrix becomes smooth. Sutures.—Silkworm gut is the best material for the stitches on which there is some tension, and fine horsehair, put in close to the edge of the skin so as to bring it into accurate apposition, for the intermediate ones. Silk is not so good, as it gets soaked with discharge and may act as a carrier of sepsis. As a rule there is so much scarring that the stitch-marks do not matter very much, and buried sutures are unnecessary. However, when the defect is small and the scarring comparatively slight, a great deal of deformity is avoided by using buried stitches (see Part I., p. 154). They are especially useful where small tumours or patches of lupus are excised, and the edges of the skin can either be brought together or a small flap can be turned in to fill the gap. These wounds heal extremely rapidly, and in the great majority of cases union by first intention will be obtained. The stitches can be removed in most cases in four or five days; the earlier they are removed, the less noticeable are the stitch-marks afterwards.