222 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS. Rouge's operation.—Before beginning the operation, the posterior nares must be plugged, so as to prevent the blood running back and accumulating in the pharynx. Some surgeons even go the length of per- forming a preliminary tracheotomy and plugging the pharynx, but, unless the operation be a very extensive one, it is very seldom that this is necessary; in most cases the posterior nares can be quite efficiently plugged in the ordinary manner. The chief objection urged against plugging the nares is that the plug is apt to slip and more especially that the string keeping the plug in position is apt to be divided during the operation. The slipping of the plug depends to a great extent on the manner in which it has been introduced, and to avoid cutting the string which holds it forwards it is well to employ a silver wire instead. The plug is made of boracic lint folded to a size which will fill up the posterior nares and narrow enough to be pulled into it; attached to this is a piece of string with both ends long, and in addition it is well, as has just been said, to attach a piece of silver wire to the part which will come into the nares ; but it is better not to employ wire for the portion that passes round the palate into the mouth because in withdrawing it the palate may be cut. Special instruments such as Belocq's sound may be used for the introduc- tion of the plug, but the simplest plan is to take a gum-elastic catheter of small size, pass it through the nose and down into the pharynx and then, holding the mouth open, to seize the tip and pull it out of the mouth. The string and silver wire are then attached to the tip of the catheter which is withdrawn through the nose carrying with it the string attached to the plug. The plug is then drawn into the mouth, and, to avoid injury of the soft palate, it is well to push it back into the pharynx with the finger; when it has disappeared behind the lower edge of the palate the string through the nostril is pulled upon and the plug drawn up into the posterior nares. The finger is introduced behind the palate to see that the plug is properly in position and the end of the string is kept out of the way by an assistant. As a rule it is well to plug both nostrils and of course that is essential when the nasal septum is to be operated on. The patient is arranged with a sandbag beneath the neck and the head extended so that the nose faces the light; the upper lip is raised, pulled out from the jaw and everted by an assistant, while the surgeon divides the mucous membrane at its reflection from the bicuspid teeth on one side of the jaw to those on the other. The incision is carried upwards keeping close to the bone, and the upper lip is entirely detached from the bone. The septum must then be detached from the nasal crest and the ala of the nose from the upper jaw on each side. The lip can now be pulled upwards so as to expose the lower part of the opening of the nostrils. The view obtained is quite good in front, but more restricted further back. The exact limits of the disease are then made out, an incision is carried through the mucous membrane at a little distance around it, and the area of bone corresponding to the disease