Il6 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. culous disease, either of the lungs or the larynx. They gradually extend in area and are usually excessively painful. Treatment.—When the ulcers are small and shallow, the most satisfactory treatment is to excise the ulcer and bring the edges of the mucous membrane together with fine catgut. This can be done without an anaesthetic by painting the affected surface over with a 20 per cent, solution of cocaine. Should the raw surface thus left be too large to bring together by stitches, it may be touched with undiluted carbolic acid; a mouth-wash of sanitas (three drachms to the pint), or chlorate of potash (10 grs. to the oz.) should be frequently employed during healing, whilst the treatment for the original tuberculous disease is vigorously pro- ceeded with. When however the ulcer is secondary to tuberculous mischief in the lungs or larynx, the raw surface thus left is very apt to be infected after excision, and under these circumstances it will be better to avoid operation and merely to treat the ulcer locally. In some cases a 20% solution of lactic acid painted over the surface of the sore once a week is of great advantage. It relieves the pain and at the same time promotes rapid healing. The value of this treatment is still further increased if the sore be previously scraped with a sharp spoon, which may be done after ansesthetisation with a 20% solution of cocaine. When the sore is still more extensive and the chief symptom requiring treatment is the pain to which it gives rise, orthoform powdered freely over the surface will often relieve it. A similar result may of course be obtained by painting the surface with cocaine, but, if the surgeon be obliged to fall back upon the use of this drug, it is important to remember that tolerance to its action is more or less rapidly established, and therefore the solution employed in the first instance should be a weak one (2 per cent.) and should be used as seldom as possible. Care must also be taken that all hard articles of diet, hot and cold substances and more particularly acid or alcoholic liquids are avoided. SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS OF THE LIPS. These may be met with in all stages of the disease, but the most common are either a primary sore or, more frequently, secondary mucous patches. PRIMARY SORES.—The chief importance of the primary sore is its recognition, as it is not only of course a great danger to other persons by infection from kissing or even from the use of the same cups, spoons, etc., but it may be mistaken for a malignant growth and removed under that impression. Treatment.—As it is of the greatest importance to obtain rapid healing of a sore in this situation, the patient should be brought under the influence of mercury by one of the more rapid methods such as