103 TUMOURS. TUMOURS OF THE FACE. SEBACEOUS CYSTS.—These are not uncommon, and on the face the wall of the cyst is much thinner than it is in those occurring on the scalp Treatment.—The method of removing them has been already fully described (see Part II., p. 161). To avoid unnecessary scarring, the incision should always be planned so as to lie as far as possible in the natural folds of the cheek. Injury to the facial nerve is not at all likely to happen if the superficial part of the cyst wall be properly defined, and the soft parts separated from the rest of the wall with a blunt dissector. DERMOID CYSTS—These occur chiefly about the outer angle of the orbit, the line of the inter-maxillary cleft, the middle line in front, or some times in the thickness of the cheek. The cysts about the external angle of the orbit, which are the commonest, may communicate with the interior of the skull through an aperture in the frontal bone, but they are always external to the dura mater. Treatment.—More care is required to avoid the branches of the facial nerve than is necessary in the case of sebaceous cysts. The incision over the tumour should be parallel to the branches of the nerve, and, as soon as the cyst wall is reached, the rest of the separation should be done with a blunt dis- sector, and the cyst removed unopened. NiEVI.—These tumours are very common on the face, and naturally call for treatment both from the discoloration they cause when the nasvus is superficial and from the swelling when the tumour is of the venous variety. Treatment. —When the naevus is quite small and fairly superficial, excision will probably give the best result and leave the smallest scar. The incision should, if possible, be made parallel to the branches of the facial nerve, and, if feasible, along one of the natural folds of the skin. If, however, the tumour be large, excision is not so satisfactory. Under these circumstances it is best to apply ethylate of sodium (see Part I., p. 268) to the superficial portion of the tumour and to treat the deeper part by electrolysis. For the large, deep-seated venous nsevi of the cheek electrolysis is by far the best method of treatment, as excision or cauterisation cannot be employed, partly because of the possibility of injury to important structures and partly on account of the scarring which would result. The method of employing electrolysis has been already detailed in full (see Part L, p. 266). 11 Port-wine stains."—Perhaps the most troublesome nevoid condition on the face is that produced by the so-called "port-wine stains," and the dis- figurement may be so great as to call urgently for treatment. When the growth is of any size, the best plan is to employ a combination of electro- lysis, painting the surface with ethylate of sodium and passing a fine silk thread steeped in undiluted carbolic acid through the skin by means of a round needle.