239 CUT THROAT. up. Should neither of these tubes be at hand, the same result may be obtained by packing the trachea firmly above the tube either with a small sponge attached to a silk thread or with a strip of gauze. Should the latter material be used, care must be taken to see that it cannot be sucked into the trachea, and a long strip should therefore be used, one end of which is left hanging well out of the wound. As an additional precaution it is well to tie a long silk thread to this so that, should it slip in, it can easily be pulled up, as it is not at all uncommon for it to be gradually sucked past the tube in the violent attempts at respiration. The surgeon's attention is next directed to the arrest of the haemorrhage. This should be done in the usual manner, and what has already been said with reference to wounds not implicating the air passages applies equally here (see p. 239). In disinfecting the wound, particular care must be taken to see that none of the strong disinfectants run into the trachea. Fig. 81.—Trendelenburg's Tampon Cannula. The cannula with its inflating end is seen at the left side of the figure, on the right is the chloroform apparatus referred to on p. 260. The next point is the treatment of the wound in the air-passages. When tracheotomy has been performed there need be no hesitation at all about closing this entirely. When the incision runs through the larynx itself, the cartilages are united by catgut sutures, and a careful examination must always be made to see whether the vocal cords have been injured; if so, the divided structures must be carefully sutured. When the trachea is divided, one or two stitches usually suffice to maintain the edges in apposition; should the tube be completely divided, three stout stitches, one central, and one on either side, should be employed to fix the two halves together, and a few finer stitches in between will complete the apposition. After the opening into the air-passages or the pharynx has been com- pletely shut off, the divided structures in the neck are sutured together layer by layer and the skin wound is closed, a drainage tube being inserted at one angle of the wound, as its asepticity cannot be guaranteed.