AFFECTIONS OF THE SKULL. 35 acid, for it is very important to obtain a wound as aseptic as possible. The opening is then enlarged in any direction that may seem most suitable, the flaps are turned aside and the diseased area is exposed. The simplest plan is to apply a trephine larger than the necrotic area and to saw through the outer table of the skull. Very frequently the sequestrum does not go deeper than this and in that case it is advisable not to interfere with the internal table. After the trephine has been made to divide about half the thickness of the skull, the whole necrotic area may be gently chipped away with a chisel and hammer. Should the disease be found to extend deeper, the trephine can be re-applied and the remaining portion of the circle of bone removed. The bone is often very dense and difficult to cut through and, should the opening not be sufficient, it is not at all easy to enlarge it with cutting forceps; it will generally be necessary to make additional trephine openings. Great care should be taken not to injure the dura mater, because of the danger of septic meningitis. Therefore, unless any important.symptom calls for it, the dura should not be opened. The cut surfaces of bone left should be sponged with undiluted carbolic acid. As these operations are usually undertaken in cases of open wounds, it is not easy to close the wound again, and usually it must be packed with iodoform gauze. This is probably the best treatment when the internal table has not been removed, and it should be continued until the whole wound is covered with healthy granulations. Then skin-grafting should be employed (see Part I., p. 50) otherwise there may be great delay in the healing of the wound owing to the difficulty of contraction. When however the whole thickness of the bone has been cut through and the dura has been exposed, it is better to attempt to close in the exposed dura mater at once by some form of plastic operation. In some cases the edges can be brought together by loosening the scalp freely. In others it may be necessary to make a curved incision outwards and downwards from one angle of the wound so as to allow a portion of the scalp to be turned in over the wound (see Part I., p. 179). With this treatment the patient is much more likely to recover and to escape com- plications than when medicinal treatment alone is adopted. The syphilitic bone diseases of infancy and childhood do not call for special mention. The treatment is that of congenital syphilis (see Part III., p. 205), and, so long as the skin has not ulcerated, it will in most cases suffice to employ the ordinary anti-syphilitic treatment. CRANIO-TABES. Very little need be said about congenital defects in the skull because there is practically nothing to be done for them. In some cases there may be so much atrophy of the skull as actually to lead to the formation of perforations in the bone. This condition is common in the skulls of aged people and cannot be averted.