THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. 94 the dura mater which cannot be subsequently closed, but this is minimised by stitching up as much of it as possible, so that the packing emerges only at one corner. In the majority of these cases there is no question of replacing the bone ; for instance, if the operation be done in two stages, some days must elapse, and the bone is no longer alive. When the conditions are such that there is every prospect of the recovery of the patient, the question arises of how to guard against the danger entailed by the large defect in the skull. The mere implantation of fragments of decalcified bone over the surface of the dura mater is of little use, as that generally only leads to a little extra thickening of the fibrous tissue. Plates of aluminium, gold, or silver have been applied over the orifice and have healed in, but as a rule the most that can be done is to apply a moulded plate of silver or aluminium outside the scalp after the healing of the wound. Fig. 26.—Cranial Chisel. This instrument is provided with a shoulder to prevent injury to the dura mater. It can be introduced along the dotted line shown across the base of the osteo-plastic flap in the succeeding figure, and made to divide it. The shoulder is introduced between the dura and the bone. A chisel with a shoulder at each end of the cutting edge is sometimes used ; the object of this is to avoid damage to the soft parts over the bone in the same way that damage to the dura mater is avoided. Osteo-plastic procedures.—Some surgeons have advocated the use of an osteo-plastic flap, which has great advantages in cases where the tumour is to be removed ; a great objection is, however, the additional length of time which the operation takes and the difficulty in cutting the flaps. It is obvious that such a procedure can be employed only comparatively rarely, as it demands, in order to render the prolongation of the operation justifiable, the accurate diagnosis and localisation of a small and easily accessible tumour. If an oste-oplastic flap is to be employed, the scalp should be retracted only for about a quarter of an inch all round the edge of the incision, and then, with a Hey's or a circular saw, the bone should be divided "along the line of the incision in the soft tissues, that is to say in a semicircular form ; the division of the bone should be oblique from without inwards, so that the opening through the inner table is smaller than that through the outer, and the cut surface presents a bevelled edge; if the flap of bone be replaced it will not sink into the skull. The difficulty is in cutting the base of the flap of bone; the bone is usually too thick to break easily, and, indeed, the attempt might cause a fracture of the skull. Probably the simplest pro- cedure is to make a trephine hole on each side and pass a Gigli's saw beneath the base and partially saw the bone until it will bend or break. A chisel (see Fig. 26) slipped under the scalp to divide the bone is rather objec- tionable on account of the shock caused by the percussion of the hammer. A somewhat easier plan of cutting an osteo-plastic flap is shown in