68 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. found. The exploration of the brain is best effected with a pair of sinus forceps, introduced closed; the blades are separated from time to time, when any pus they reach will escape along them and will certainly be found. If the exploration be made with a hollow needle or with a trochar and cannula, the channel is apt to be blocked with brain substance and the pus may not escape, even though the instrument passes into an abscess cavity. The forceps should be first introduced directly inwards.^ If they fail to reach pus there, they may be next directed upwards and backwards and finally downwards and forwards; in this way the three chief situations of temporo- sphenoidal abscess will be explored. If pus be found, the opening in the dura should be enlarged and a pair of dressing forceps should be substituted for the sinus forceps; with a blunt scoop any sloughs present in the abscess cavity are removed. The nozzle of a fine syringe is then introduced into the abscess cavity and a gentle stream of warm boracic lotion flushed through it. Care of course must be taken not to use any pressure and to see that there is a free escape for the fluid, as otherwise serious damage may be done. When the abscess has been thoroughly cleansed, some surgeons simply withdraw the forceps and allow the cavity to close without drainage. For our own part, we prefer to put a drainage tube into the abscess cavity for at least two or three days. Where that is done, a hole can be made for it in the centre of the flap, which is stitched up with a continuous suture. At the end of two or three days the discharge will generally have practically ceased and the tube may be left out. The disadvantage of a drainage tube-is that the brain may become adherent to the edges of the opening in the dura mater and to the under surface of the flap, and this may possibly be followed by epileptiform attacks. On the other hand this by no means necessarily occurs, and, where no drainage is employed or where it is not efficient, the abscess may re-form, may extend more widely and may not be so successfully dealt with on the second occasion. Indeed, it is often difficult to prevent the abscess from re-forming, even when a drainage tube is used. On the whole a glass tube, perhaps, answers best. When no abscess is found in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe or when the symptoms indicate cerebellar abscess, the cerebellum must be explored. In cases in which the sigmoid groove has not been opened, this may be done by turning down a flap beneath the superior curved line on the side affected and then applying a trephine in the space bounded by the superior curved line above, the sigmoid groove in front and the middle line behind. After the trephine hole has been made, the further procedures are identical with those just mentioned. The abscess is usually found in the anterior and upper part of the cerebellum, and that is the direction in which the forceps should first be introduced. It is not uncommon for these abscesses to be found extending directly inwards from the lateral sinus, and in cases in which the sigmoid groove has been exposed it may only be necessary to cut away a little bone downwards and then, after incising the dura,