CHAPTER XXI. CUT THROAT. This may be either suicidal or homicidal; in the latter case the structures are generally more extensively damaged than in the former, and it is in them especially that wounds of the important vessels and nerves of the neck most frequently occur. In suicidal wounds of the neck the chief damage as a rule is inflicted on the left side, but the stemo-mastoid by contracting usually protects the large vessels from injury. The extent and situation of the wound varies considerably in different cases. Usually the incision runs across the thyro-hyoid membrane or just above the hyoid bone. It is rare for the trachea itself to be opened in suicidal cases; in some however the thyroid cartilage may be cut through. It is rare in any case for the larger vessels, the carotid artery and the internal jugular vein, to be injured; the bleeding usually comes from the larger veins joining the jugular, especially the superior thyroid and lingual. It is most con- venient to divide the cases up into those in which the air-passages are not implicated and those in which they are involved. 1. Wounds not implicating the air-passages.—Wounds through the thyro-hyoid membrane or above the hyoid bone do not necessarily implicate the air-passages although, when carried deeply, they may do so. For example, when the incision is in the former situation the base of the epiglottis may be cut across; when above the hyoid bone, part of the epiglottis may be severed and the pharynx opened; but there is no communication with the larynx or trachea. 2. Wounds involving the air-passages.—Wounds of this kind are much more serious on account of the complications, both immediate and remote, which may follow them. Thus, the large vessels or nerves in the neck may be divided, but this is rare in suicidal cases. If there be a deep wound above the hyoid bone there may be very free bleeding from the lingual or facial arteries or veins, and the tongue muscles may be cut through to such an extent that the organ may fall back over the aperture of the larynx and death from asphyxia may occur.