TRACHEOTOMY. 253 tracheotomy opening, and frequent attempts should be made by closing the latter to accustom the child to breathe normally through the larynx. When it is found that the child can breathe freely after the external aperture has been plugged, cautious attempts should be made to leave out the tube. In the first instance this must only be done when the surgeon or his assistant is present, as spasm is very likely to occur in nervous children from the mere thought that they are without the tube; this may necessitate its immediate re-introduction. In any case the tube should not be left out for more than half an hour or so on the first occasion. Each succeeding period may be gradually lengthened until in the course of about a week it may often be given up altogether. Should the child persistently get spasm after the tube is removed, although it is obvious that there is a free passage through the larynx, it may be quite sufficient to restore confi- dence by shortening the tube so much that the child wears little more than a shield, behind which cicatrisation of the wound can take place. Another method of encouraging the use of laryngeal breathing is to incite the child to blow out a light, blow a whistle, play a musical instru- ment, etc. The question of the general treatment of the patient need not be considered here; that will of course depend upon the condition for which the tracheotomy is done. THE LOW OPERATION.—This is usually performed when there is no great hurry in opening the trachea, and where therefore the bleeding can be properly controlled as it is met with; as a rule, however, the haemor- rhage is not so free as in the high operation. The preparation of the patient, etc., is the same as before, and the incision should commence at the lower border of the cricoid cartilage and be carried down through the skin as far as the sternal notch. As the wound is deepened, however, care must be taken not to go too deep at the lower part because the left innominate vein, if distended, may bulge up close behind the sternal notch and may be wounded ; the anterior jugular vein may require ligature. In this operation the deep cervical fascia is divided vertically from the lower border of the isthmus of the thyroid, and it is well to notch it slightly by a transverse incision above; the isthmus of the thyroid can be then pulled well up by a double hook. The trachea is fixed and opened in the same manner as in the high operation. Difficulties ill tracheotomy.—There are several difficulties requiring mention in the operation of tracheotomy. In the first place the trachea may be missed entirely, especially in a small, fat child, and the operator in seeking for it has been known to do serious damage to important structures in the neck. This is best avoided by taking care before the operation that the chin and sternum are in the same straight line, and that the incisions are kept strictly to the middle line throughout. The finding of the trachea is further facilitated by steadying the larynx between the thumb and finger, in the manner recommended above, until the trachea is opened, and the surgeon,