THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. 346 the nose is usually permanent, does not require a drainage tube or packing to maintain it, does away with the necessity of any special after-treatment, and lastly, it gives rise to no subsequent inconvenience. The external wound falls naturally together and sutures are useless. The after-treatment consists in washing out the nose with boracic acid solution once daily or oftener if necessary until all discharge ceases. When there is much discharge or the antral cavity is much diseased, a syringe with a suitable nozzle should be passed under the inferior turbinate into the antrum and this cavity also washed out. A suitable syringe may be easily improvised by attaching a Eustachian catheter to the end of a small ball nasal syringe with or without an intermediate piece of tubing. By these means a cure is almost invariably obtained in the course of a few weeks, and even in cases in which the antrum acts as a reservoir of pus the large opening will prevent its accumulation in the cavity. The whole point of the operation is the establishment of a large opening from the antrum into the inferior meatus of the nose, and attempts have been made to effect this without making the opening through the canine fossa as above described. The operation through the nasal fossa without extensive damage to the inferior turbinate is extremely difficult and almost impossible and a preliminary Rouge's operation although rendering it easier has disadvantages which more than outweigh those attaching to the canine fossa route. (b) Of suppuration in the ethmoidal cells.—Free access to the larger part of these cells cannot be obtained by an external operation, unless it be very extensive and one which would probably result in considerable disfigurement. Operation, therefore, entails the difficulty of working through a long narrow passage where the limits of safety cannot be accurately seen : in fact it means to some extent working in the dark. One would think that operation ought to be somewhat dangerous in such a region under such conditions, and no doubt untoward results have occasionally occurred, but it seems probable that these have been due to the methods commonly adopted, and that a radical operation can really be comparatively safely performed. Moreover, the risks must be balanced against the danger and inconvenience entailed by leaving the disease alone, for in this region suppuration is extremely liable to extend not only to the antrum and frontal sinus but also to the orbit and perhaps the cranial cavity. It must be remembered, too, that polypi are a very frequent result of ethmoidal disease, and when due to this cause the simple removal of polypi will fail to give a satisfactory result. There is rapid recurrence which necessitates repeated operations, and the patient's life becomes a burden. These patients are frequently debilitated and are quite commonly incapacitated from earning their living, especially if this involves mental labour. Head- ache, inability to fix the attention, and eye troubles are all common results of ethmoidal disease. This serious inconvenience quite justifies a more radical operation, even if it be attended by some slight risk. At the