4io THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE EAR. Chap. IV.). the cavity. The mucous membrane may be extensively thickened and polypoid, the bone may be carious, the mastoid cells may be extensively involved and the walls of the cavity perforated, exposing both the dura mater and the lateral sinus. Treatment.—The membrane and ossicles will of necessity have been removed before the diagnosis of chronic antral suppuration has been made. If, in spite of this proceeding, suppuration continues and does not diminish under treatment, a more radical operation should always be advised, for although the patient may be in no immediate danger, grave symptoms may at any moment supervene. Operation should always be carried out at once if there is bulging of the postero-superior wall of the external meatus, if the discharge is profuse, and especially if it be blood-stained, if the patient is liable to headache or if there is any tenderness on pressure over the antral cavity. In other cases there is no immediate hurry, but the operation should always be recommended if a purulent discharge persist in spite of treatment three months after the ossicles have been removed and the attic curetted. The complete post-aural operation should invariably be done (see p. 404). CEREBRAL COMPLICATIONS. PYAEMIA. The most important and grave result of chronic suppuration of the middle ear or antrum is the occasional occurrence of cerebral complications, such as extra-dural abscess, lepto-meningitis, cerebral abscess and of pyaemia and thrombosis of the lateral sinus. These may result either from caries or necrosis and perforation of the bone allowing direct extension of the disease to the dura mater and the brain or the infection may be carried by the peri- vascular lymphatics which accompany the numerous veins passing through the roof of the tympanum and antrum. This danger is especially great in children owing to the large number of the veins passing through the tympanic roof (which are subsequently obliterated) and to the thinness of the bony walls of the cavity. These affections are dealt with in Div. I. (see