427 ACUTE LARYNGITIS IN CHILDREN. Treatment. The infant should be confined to bed in a warm, well- ventilated room at a temperature of about 70° F., and should be placed in a croup tent, and the atmosphere kept moist by means of a croup kettle. The steam may be medicated by the addition of tinct. benzoin, comp. The diet should consist of plenty of warm fluids. A brisk purge, such as one to two grains of calomel should be ordered together with a diaphoretic expectorant mixture.1 If the cough be very troublesome, small doses of tinct. camph. co. or bromide of potassium should be given. The best remedy for the attack of spasm is the immediate application of a hot fomentation, a poultice, or a sponge wrung out of hot water to the front of the neck; if possible, the child should be immediately placed in a hot bath to which a little mustard may be added. Should an attack be anticipated, the application of hot fomentations or poultices over the larynx will probably prevent it. One of the oldest and best remedies is the induction of vomiting either by the administration of vini ipecac, or mustard and water or by tickling the fauces with the finger or a feather. In very rare cases intubation or tracheotomy may be required. When the acute attack has passed off, attention should be directed to the upper air passages; enlarged tonsils and adenoids, if present, should be removed, and the child placed under the best possible hygienic con- ditions. In most cases also benefit will be derived from the administration of the syrup of the iodide of iron and cod-liver oil. CHRONIC LARYNGITIS. This occurs as the sequel of the acute form, especially when the voice has not been rested and the affection has been neglected. It may also occur as the direct result of prolonged over-use of the voice. It may be due to the inhalation of impure air or to the inhalation of dust. In the large majority of cases an abnormal condition of the upper air passages is present, such as atrophic or obstructed conditions of the nose, chronic rhinitis, post-nasal catarrh, etc., and the affection is especially common during the period of rapid development of the larynx which takes place at puberty. Pathology.—The affection leads to a chronic thickening and congestion of the mucous membrane of the larynx. The edges of the cords become rounded and approximate imperfectly. In the more chronic cases various hypertrophic changes may occur, the most common of which is called 1 The following may he used : Liq. amnion, acet., - - - - - ■ m- 10 Vini ipecac., m. 2 Ammon. carh., - - gr. ss. Syrup, tolu., tO Aquam, ^ - - ad 5 1 Sig.—One tcaspoonful every four hours for a child of two.