INFLAMMATION OF THE PAROTID GLAND. 189 after a few days. In some cases orchitis or, in the female, mastitis may- occur as a complication ; suppuration very rarely takes place. Treatment.—Hot fomentations should be applied to the part, the patient put on a fluid or semi-fluid diet, kept in a warm room until the inflammatory symptoms have abated, and kept isolated until the infectious period has- passed off. Some simple saline mixture containing nitrate of potash and sulphate of magnesia may be administered. SALIVARY CALCULUS. Salivary calculus may occur in the parotid although it is more frequent in the sub-maxillary gland. In the parotid it may occur in the substance of the gland or in Stenson's duct. The exact etiology of these calculi is not clear. They are very probably due to some alteration in the composition of the saliva whereby small hard masses accumulate in the duct and, if retained for any length of time, become infiltrated with calcareous salts, especially phosphate of lime, and in this way the characteristic small ovoid calculi are gradually formed.. These calculi usually find their way forward until they are arrested close to the orifice of the duct. Their presence in the duct gives rise to con- siderable irritation of the lining membrane, and ulceration often occurs. Indeed, if the obstruction persist for a long time, suppuration may even take place around the calculus. Treatment.—In most cases the treatment is quite simple. When the calculus is impacted in Stenson's duct it is usually situated close to the orifice and then all that is necessary is to evert the cheek, pass a fine probe-pointed canaliculus director into the orifice and slit up the duct sufficiently to admit of the calculus being squeezed out with the finger or withdrawn with forceps. The orifice of the duct is usually prominent and somewhat fixed by the inflammation and it is therefore easier to pass a probe into it under these circumstances than it is in the normal state. The most difficult cases are those in which the calculus is impacted at some distance from the opening. Even then it can generally be pressed forward by the fingers until it is within reach, when the duct is slit up- and the calculus removed. If not, it may be necessary to cut down on the calculus through the mucous membrane just in front of the masseter and to slit up the wall of the duct. If that be done, no stitches should be put in, as it does not matter whether the slit in the duct closes or not. NEW GROWTHS OF THE PAROTID GLAND. Several varieties of new growths are found in the parotid, such as fibroma, myxoma, lipoma, angioma, etc., but these present no special points of importance. The "parotid tumour."—Of greater interest are the so-called