252 THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. be done as soon as it is safe, as the irritation caused by a foreign body in the trachea is harmful. When the tracheotomy is done for laryngeal stenosis, or for cancer in which no radical operation can be performed, the tube of course must be retained permanently, but in other cases it is merely a temporary expedient. When the tracheotomy has been done for the removal of a foreign body which has been successfully extracted, the tube should only be kept in for a few hours. It should not be removed at once as otherwise emphysema from the imperfect escape of air through the external wound is likely to occur; after a few hours the tissues become sufficiently 'glazed to render that improbable. In cases of diphtheria, especially in children, the tube should not be kept in longer than is absolutely necessary, as otherwise there may be great difficulty in leaving it out, for children rapidly lose the habit of breathing through the larynx; moreover, granulation may occur in the upper part of the trachea and cause more or less complete block- age. The factor that will mainly influence the question of the re- moval of the tube in these cases is the amount of discharge coughed up ; as long as membrane and thick mucus are being expelled, the silver instrument must be retained and the inner tube frequently changed ; as soon, however, as it becomes thin and watery, but is present in sufficient quantity to render it im- possible to dispense with the tube entirely, the soft rubber form known as Morrant Baker's (see Fig. 86) should be substituted. This is soft and flexible, and is therefore not nearly so irritating or so likely to produce ulceration of the trachea. The prolonged retention of a silver tube, especially if it does not fit perfectly, is a frequent cause of severe ulceration of the wall of the trachea and necrosis of the cartilages; in some cases either a peri-cesophageal abscess or a direct communication with the oesophagus itself may form. The india-rubber tube should never be used from the first, as, owing to its softness, it may become occluded by the lateral pressure of the muscles of the neck, and it should therefore only be employed after the opening has become fairly rigid. In employing the rubber tube care must also be taken to see that it is properly made, as it has happened that the shield has become detached and the tube has slipped into the trachea. Should this happen, it is usually fairly easy to introduce forceps into the trachea, grasp the tube, and gradually withdraw it. When the india rubber tube is used, a large hole should be cut in its upper convex surface, so that a certain amount of air passes through the larynx as well as through the Fig. 86.—Morrant Baker's India-Riiiher TinE.