THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. fit the opening in the cheek by paring the upper edge of the latter and suturing the united flaps in position. The remainder of the forehead flap is then turned upwards; the eyebrow is usually readily replaced if some of the granulation tissue be torn through, and a certain amount of skin above the eyebrow will be left. The raw surface remaining on the forehead must be skin-grafted. Should it be thought well not to carry out the whole operation at one time, the base of the deep flap should not be divided for about four weeks, when the flap can be brought up from below to cover it. There is however no advantage in dividing the operation into two stages, though it must be noted that in some cases suppuration does occur between the flaps when they are both cut at the one operation. To obviate this, a drainage tube should be put in at the deeper part so as to carry off any saliva which may get in between the flaps from the posterior margin. If sufficient skin has been obtained, and there is not too much tension, the result should be good, especially if the prolongation of the deep flap over the inner surface of the horizontal ramus of the jaw has united well. No doubt a certain amount of contraction does take place later, but this is usually only enough to limit movement to a certain extent. 4. Extensive and irremedial closure of the jaws.—These are the bad cases with extensive union between the alveoli and so much infiltration of the masseter and internal pterygoid muscles with inflammatory material as to convert them practically into dense fibrous bands. Under these circumstances it is useless to attempt to get movement at the temporo-maxillary articulation, and it is better to try to obtain it by dividing the jaw in front of the contraction. The best plan is to begin by closing the aperture in the cheek by turning in flaps, without division of the cicatricial material, and then subsequently creating a false joint in front of the cicatrix. The typical mode of procedure is that known as Esmarch's, and consists in the removal of a wedge of bone from the hori- zontal ramus of the jaw, with its base downwards, the size of the wedge vary- ing with the age of the patient; in an adult the base should measure about an inch and a quarter in length, in a child correspondingly less. The wedge must be well in front of the cicatrix. An incision is made along the lower border of the jaw, somewhat longer than the intended base of the wedge, the soft parts are separated from the bone in front and behind, and then the jaw- is divided with a keyhole saw. If teeth be present, it is usually impossible to open the mouth so as to extract them, and, if they get in the way of the saw, they must be cut across, and the fangs afterwards picked out. A thin copper spatula should be passed between the inner side of the jaw and the soft tissues to protect them from injury, and the bone should be cut as cleanly as possible. Any sharp edges left must be removed with bone-pliers or a chisel. The wound is closed by one or two horsehair sutures, a small aperture being left for a gauze plug, which may be removed after the first few days.