THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LARYNX. inhalations, excessive smoking or alcoholism. The most common pre- disposing cause is an atrophic condition of the mucous membrane of the upper air passages and especially ozasna, or some obstructive lesion leading to buccal respiration and deficient moistening of the inspired air. Symptoms.—The mucous membrane of the larynx is extremely con- gested and covered by small black mucous crusts which excite a constant irritating cough and may prevent approximation of the cords. There is also often thickening of the mucous membrane, especially in the inter-arytenoid region and over the vocal processes,—the condition known as pachydermia. The affection may be acute or chronic. Treatment.—Local.—The first step consists in thoroughly cleansing the larynx with a spray. A warm alkaline solution should be used in the way above described (see p. 420) and repeated once daily by the surgeon himself or, if this be impossible, by the patient or an attendant. Im- mediately the larynx is cleansed, the patient experiences a great sense of comfort, and the voice returns, unless there is hypertrophic thickening of the mucous membrane. In addition the predisposing causes should be removed, especial attention being directed to any disease in the upper air passages. Alcohol and smoking should be strictly prohibited. If the larynx cannot be cleansed by sprays, and in some of these cases the throat is extremely irritable and any application immediately excites retching or vomiting,—steam inhalations may be tried, such as the vapor creosoti or the vapor cubebae (see p. 428). As the condition subsides, the larynx should be brushed over daily with a solution of nitrate of silver (20-40 grs. to the oz.) or of chloride of zinc (50-60 grs. to the oz.), should there be any tendency, for the mischief to become chronic or should hypertrophic thickening of the mucous membrane be present. The laryngeal mucous membrane will tolerate very strong solutions. Constitutional.—This always requires attention. Errors of diet must be corrected, alcohol strictly forbidden, and any tendency to gout appro- priately treated. The majority of chronic cases will derive great benefit from a course of aperient waters, such as Carlsbad or Apenta, and from attention to the digestive functions. In anaemic cases iron, etc., may be necessary. ACUTE (EDEMATOUS LARYNGITIS. CAUSES.—Acute cedematous laryngitis may result from several distinct conditions, and several varieties are met with. In the simplest form a small portion only of the larynx is affected, usually the epiglottis or aryteno- epiglottic folds or the arytenoids, apparently as the result of a cold, some slight septic condition or iodism. Secondly, a severe form of acute inflam- mation of the larynx may occur as the result of some acute infection such as the invasion of pyogenic organisms. It involves the sub-mucous tissues and not uncommonly the deeper structures of the larynx, and results in