400 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE EAR. not excite any inflammation or irritation the time may be gradually in- creased until it is worn for twelve or more hours at a time; it should be invariably removed at night. The patient can be easily taught to apply the drum for himself and will quickly succeed in doing it even more skilfully than the surgeon. In place of these cotton-wool pads small discs of paper or linen, such as Ward Cousins' ear-drums, may be used. Small perforations.—If a small perforation only be present and frequent attacks of acute otitis occur, an attempt should be made to heal it. For this purpose it is necessary to refresh its edges, which may be done either with a knife or by the application of caustics. The best plan is to apply a little trichlor-acetic acid with a fine probe to the extreme margins of the perforation. If necessary the application may be repeated. The method usually succeeds only with very small perforations. Intra-tympanic adhesions.—Adhesions may be found binding the various ossicles together or uniting them and the membrane or its remains to the inner wall of the tympanum. Extensive thickening may form around the foot-plate of the stapes. The resulting deafness varies considerably, but it is rarely progressive and may even improve, especially in the young. The prognosis is better when there is no labyrinthine involvement. Where labyrinthine changes have occurred, Rinne's test in the lower scale com- monly becomes positive, and the prognosis depends upon the position in the scale at which this conversion takes place (see p. 373). Treatment.—The general health should always be attended to and the post-nasal space and upper air-passages examined and any morbid condition rectified. Inflation with the Eustachian catheter or by Politzer's method should be carried out and often gives improvement even where a large perforation is present. When the hearing is much impaired and especially if severe tinnitus be present, operative interference is often beneficial. A common condition is to find the lower part of the drum almost completely destroyed, while the membrana flaccida and the posterior and anterior folds are converted into a mass of fibrous tissue which binds down the ossicles or their remains into the upper part of the tympanic space. For this condition, when the labyrinth is not involved, complete removal of the remains of the ossicles and the membrane may be carried out, but the uncertainty of the result must always be fully explained to the patient. Operation.—The external meatus should be purified by syringing for a few days with a mild antiseptic such as boracic acid, and instillations of rectified spirit, to which twenty grains to the ounce of boracic acid are added, should be practised once daily for three days at least before the operation. In the intervals a small plug of wool should be worn in the external meatus. It is better to operate under general anaesthesia. The steps of the operation have already been described (see p. 396). As a rule very little reaction follows and the ear is quite dry by the end of a week. In a few cases marked, and in the majority slight improvement in hearing is obtained, but a relapse is frequent. This plan is much better than the