THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. meningitis or cerebral abscess. Sphenoidal disease may also spread to the cerebral cavity, one of the earliest symptoms of this being progressive blindness from involvement of the optic tracts which are in close relation to the body of the sphenoid bone. Extension of disease from the cavity may also take place through the lymphatics, and perhaps also through the veins without any definite sign of bone disease; bacterial infection through these channels is probably the most common cause of the various cerebral affections resulting from sinus suppurations. Treatment.—In chronic suppuration of any accessory cavity of the nose spontaneous recovery is practically impossible, and thus in every case operative interference is required. In the first place this should consist in irrigating the cavity through its natural or an artificial opening, and washing out the pus: the cause, if still present, must be removed and special efforts made to obtain free access to the nasal opening of the cavity by the removal of polypi, oedema, or any other hypertrophic condition. Should these means fail, a further operation must be undertaken: the cavity must be freely opened and all pathological conditions set up by the suppuration and tending to maintain it, such as polypi, caries, or necrosis of its walls must be removed. Moreover, means must be taken to prevent re-accumulation of the pus, either by providing permanent free drainage or by entirely obliterating the cavity. Further, although surgical treatment is essential, every other means, medical and dietetic, must be adopted to maintain the general health. Again, the cavities must be treated in a definite order, for, as has already been seen, one cavity may act as a reservoir of pus coming from another, and also the diagnosis depends to a large extent upon the result of treatment. In most cases it is possible to ascertain whether the purulent discharge in the nose comes from the anterior set of accessory sinuses, namely, the antrum, the anterior ethmoidal cells and the frontal sinus, or whether it is derived from the posterior set of cavities, the sphenoidal sinus and the posterior ethmoidal cells. In the former case, if' polypi, oedema of the middle turbinate, or caries of the ethmoid be present the ethmoidal cells should be attacked. After the ethmoidal cells have been treated it is advisable to puncture the antrum, and finally, if there be still a considerable amount of discharge, the frontal sinus must be opened. In other cases in which there is no definite evidence as to which of the anterior set of cavities is involved, the antrum must first be attacked, then the ethmoidal cells, and lastly the frontal sinus. If the posterior set of cavities be affected, it is generally advisable to remove the posterior end of the middle turbinate and to open the posterior ethmoidal cells, and subsequently if necessary to attack the sphenoidal sinus. In a few cases, as for instance in ozaena, the opening of the sphenoidal sinus can be seen from the front, and in such cases this sinus may be explored first. In every case of chronic suppuration in the nose it is necessary to explore the cavities one by one until all sources of suppuration have been