174 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. varying curves introduced through the lateral incisions. The more curved are used first and, as the detachment proceeds, the straighter ones may be employed. Special curves may be required for the detachment of the anterior portion. In detaching these flaps care must be taken to avoid damaging them as they are often very delicate. The point of the raspatory should be gently inserted between the flap and the bone and the separation made by gentle lateral movements, so that there is no stretching of the parts and no danger of running the point of the instrument through the flap. When the cleft is reached, the point of the raspatory is brought out between the bone and the mucous membrane. Special care must be taken with the detachment at the anterior ends. When both sides have been detached, it is generally easy to ascertain whether the flaps have been freed enough by introducing a detacher beneath each flap and drawing them together. The edges ought to come together without any material tension. It is next necessary to divide the aponeurosis attaching the soft palate to the hard in order to allow the flaps to come together posteriorly. The mucous membrane extending from the upper surface of the soft palate into the nasal cavities must also be divided so that the whole palate can hang down freely into the mouth. This division of the mucous mem- brane and fascia is best done with a pair of angular scissors, one blade being inserted between the muco-periosteum and the under surface of the bone, while the other is in the naso-pharynx above the upper surface of the soft palate. After the flap has been thus detached on each side, a short pause is made while the haemorrhage is checked by gently pressing the flap against the bone with sponges. 3. Suturing the flaps.—After the haemorrhage has been arrested, the throat sponged, and the patient brought fully under the anaesthetic, the third stage, that of passing the sutures, is reached. For uniting the hard and the greater part of the soft palate we prefer silkworm-gut. Many surgeons employ silver wire, but the gut seems to be less irritating to the dorsum of the tongue, and is also somewhat easier to tie. The last one or two sutures which unite the divided halves of the uvula may be of fine horsehair. The best way of passing the sutures is that known as the " loop method." The stitches are introduced by special long-handled needles (see Fig. 69 a) bent at varying angles and curves, carrying an eye for the suture near the point so arranged that the puncture made by its passage is at right angles to the edge of the cleft, so that when the suture is tightened the aperture is somewhat diminished. A needle is threaded with a long piece of fine silk, the two ends being of equal length, and is passed through one side of the cleft about an eighth of an inch from its margin; it should pass through the whole thickness of the flap. It is well to put the first stitch in at the junction of the soft with the hard palate so as to insure the exact apposition of the two halves. When the needle has penetrated the flap, the loop of silk in the eye is caught up in a pair of forceps