412 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE EAR. duce symptoms of labyrinthine disturbance. In other cases hyperaemia of the labyrinth associated with general plethora is generally assumed to be responsible. Symptoms.—The most prominent symptom is tinnitus which may be severe and is increased by lowering the head, straining, etc., but all the symptoms above enumerated as characteristic of internal ear disease may be present together with the symptoms due to the particular cause in action. Treatment.—This consists in as far as possible ascertaining and removing the cause. In cases due to hypersemia the most effective treatment is local blood-letting. Tinnitus in plethoric individuals is very commonly relieved spontaneously by epistaxis and in such cases an incision into the inferior turbinate, the bleeding from which should be encouraged, is the best treatment. Subsequently such patients should be properly dieted and a daily aperient such as a dose of Carlsbad salts, Apenta water, or sulphate of magnesia should be prescribed. 2. Drug deafness.—Certain drugs, such as quinine and salicin and their salts, if given in large doses or to especially susceptible patients, may produce deafness and tinnitus. This is usually temporary and ceases on discontinuing the use of the drugs, but it may become permanent if their use be persisted in. This is most likely to be the case when quinine is taken in large doses for a long time as is not unusual in malarial districts. The mode of action of these drugs is not understood, but it is possible that quinine acts by producing anaemia of the labyrinth. The treatment obviously consists in removing the cause and subse- quently in attention to the general health. In persistent cases the liquor strychninse (nT_v. t.d. s.) should be administered. 3. Labyrinthine haemorrhage or Meniere's disease.—In this affec- tion the acute symptoms above detailed, namely, tinnitus, vertigo, nausea, etc., attack a patient suddenly and without warning. The tinnitus may occur so suddenly that it seems as if a pistol-shot went off in the ear. The patient tends to fall over towards the affected side, but the symptoms are rarely severe enough to cause him to actually fall and he can generally manage to save himself by clutching some support. After a short time feelings of nausea usually accompanied by vomiting occur. The attack will last a few minutes or several hours and usually recurs. Such attacks may occur daily, weekly, or every three or four months, and the patient is fairly well in the intervals. In the early stage the patient may be only. slightly deaf or may even not notice the deafness, but in the later attacks deafness is always present, and although subsiding somewhat in the intervals is increased after each attack. Should both ears be involved not only is the hearing lost, but the patient has also impaired power of equilibration. The disease may be arrested after a time, in which case the hearing will remain stationary, or more rarely may slightly improve. In the majority of cases if left untreated however the affection will progress until complete