INTRA-CRANIAL SUPPURATION. 53 necrosis of the inner table, or, it may be, of the whole thickness of the skull. When there is a compound fracture, and consequently an open wound, this puffy tumour will not necessarily occur, but the wound as a rule becomes unhealthy, the granulations are pale and flabby, the secretion becomes diminished and foul, the pericranium is detached from the surface of the skull in the vicinity, leaving a considerable amount of bare bone exposed, and there is an cedematous condition of the parts around. In connection with this local condition there is marked pyrexia, head- ache and very rapid pulse; there may be rigors, and, when the pus cannot escape externally, there is a gradually increasing drowsiness, often accom- panied by delirium or epileptiform convulsions, ending in more or less • ■omplete coma. In fact, symptoms of compression set in as the collection of pus beneath the skull increases in size. In compound fractures this condition usually comes on two or three days at least after the injury; sometimes it may occur at a later period. The first thing that happens after the fracture is concussion, which is usually followed by an interval of consciousness; symptoms of compression without fever, and due to intra-cranial haemorrhage, may then arise, and subsequently suppuration of the clot takes place accompanied by fever, shivering, and the other symptoms already mentioned. Treatment.—The treatment consists in immediate and thorough opening up of the inflamed area. When there is no external wound, a flap should be turned down exposing the centre of the puffy tumour, and it is well to make this flap large, as a considerable amount of bone may require removal. When, however, a wound already exists, and especially when there is a fracture or a fissure present, the wound must be enlarged in any direction that seems most desirable. The periosteum will be usually found detached, and a large circle of bone should be removed and the pus allowed to escape from between the dura mater and the skull. The state of the divided bone must be carefully examined for the presence of sup- purative osteo-myelitis, and if the diploe be unhealthy at the point of section, the bone should be freely dealt with in the manner already described for acute osteo-myelitis (see p. 30). Unless the collection of pus be large and the diploe be healthy, it is well to make the opening in the bone almost co-extensive with the collection of pus beneath, so as to admit of proper drainage. By doing this also time is frequently saved, for it is not uncommon for the bone over the area of suppuration to be more or less completely necrosed. After the inflamed region has been thoroughly opened up, the pus should be gently washed away with a stream of weak sublimate solution, when the dura mater will usually be found thickened and covered with lymph, or even actually sloughing. Some surgeons advocate scraping the cavity, but it must be borne in mind that the vitality of the dura mater, if not actually destroyed, is in a very precarious state, and that any rough treatment, such as scraping, may lead to perforation and infection of the