CHAPTER XXVII. DEFORMITIES OF THE NOSE; FOREIGN BODIES IN THE NOSE. DEFORMITIES OF THE SEPTUM. The nasal septum presents more or less deviation from the middle line in about 75% °f cases) but in the large majority this gives rise to no inconvenience. It is only when the patient is conscious of obstruction in one nostril, or suffers from symptoms which can be reasonably traced to this affection, that it requires to be treated. Pathological conditions.—The septum may be simply deflected without being thickened—a condition usually associated with external de- formity of the nose, and due to some defect in the growth of the bones. In the large majority of cases, however, deflection of the septum is associated with a large amount of bony or cartilaginous thickening at the site of the bend, forming a ridge or spur, which is often termed enchondrosis or exostosis of the septum. These latter almost invariably result from trauma, and are consequently far more frequently seen in the anterior third of the nose. The ridge or spur may run either in an antero posterior or in a vertical direction. These cases may or may not be associated with external deformity. Treatment.—Septal deformities require treatment only when they actually give rise to symptoms such as nasal obstruction, when they are associated with chronic rhinitis, or when they interfere with the carrying out of other treatment: thus, they may hinder access to the accessory sinuses, or may prevent the passage of a Eustachian catheter. The main object of treatment is to free the nasal passages rather than to correct the deformity. Thus many cases require no treatment, and in others it is simply necessary to treat the chronic rhinitis by lotions, etc. (see p. 300), and thus, by reducing the swelling of the mucous membrane, free nasal respiration may be restored. In other cases, even when the spur is not very large, it may be in contact with the inferior turbinate, and may thus produce irritation ; operation will consequently be required.