CHAPTER XXXV. AFFECTIONS OF THE MIDDLE EAR. INJURIES OF THE TYMPANUM. The membrana tympani may be injured by the insertion of a pointed instrument into the ear, or occasionally by the entrance of a sharp foreign body such as a splinter, which may occur in falls without the true cause being recognised. The drum may also be ruptured by sudden compression of the air in the external auditory meatus, such as is produced by a loud •explosion, or by a blow on the ear, but this rarely happens unless there is disease of the tympanum or Eustachian obstruction. In such cases there is a mere rent in the drum, usually in the posterior half, with slight •separation of its edges. The drum may also be partly destroyed by irritating substances, such as caustics, which sometimes are poured into .the ear for earache or toothache. Rupture of the drum may also occur together with extensive injury to the ear in cases of fracture of the base of the skull. Treatment.—The external meatus must be thoroughly purified by syringing with a warm, mild antiseptic solution, dried with wool, a little boracic powder blown in, and a plug of absorbent cotton-wool inserted. The ear should be carefully watched, but in the majority of cases healing will take place rapidly and no other treatment is required. If, when seen, the incision is already closed by clot, a little powder should be blown in and the case left to nature. Should infection take place it is videnced by acute earache and signs of inflammation in the drum. In such circum- stances it is best to immediately apply a blister, or in severe cases leeches, to the mastoid, and to re-open the wound in the drum. This is of •course necessary if suppuration is taking place, but even in cases where serous fluid alone has accumulated, immediate relief will be given by •evacuation. This treatment is usually effectual, and complete recovery •ensues. Should suppuration take place, careful search must be made for a foreign body, and the treatment for acute suppurative otitis .adopted.