THE PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE.FACE. '59 Fig. 56.--Methodof form- ing aNew Columella, The central part of the lip is iso- lated by the two vertical in- cisions running through its entire thickness. This is then turned up and sutured so as to form the new columella. It will of course have its mucous surface ooking downwards. The two halves of the divided upper lip are made to meet in the middle line by carrying the small curved incisions depicted above around each ala. both, of the frontal arteries (see Fig. 55). The incision is carried down to the bone, dividing the periosteum which, in the method ordinarily employed, is then shipped up. As we have- remarked above, it may be well to turn up a thin layer of bone along with the periosteum by means of a fine chisel, so as to have a certain amount of new bone to support the flap. The forehead flap may sometimes be planned so as to pro- vide a new columella, but as a rule it is better not to do so because this is apt to be too broad and, as the new nose shrinks, there will be insufficient breathing space. As a matter of fact, a new columella can be subsequently formed if deemed desirable by turning up the central portion of the upper lip (see Fig. 56). The nasal flap is now rotated into position and secured to the raw edges of the defect with fine horsehair sutures. The tip of the nose may be supported as follows: hare- lip pins are thrust across the nasal cavity from side to side so as to push up the sides of the nose and make it stand forward ; the pin is pushed in up to the head on one side, when, by winding silk around the pin on the other side and pushing this up against the flap, the ala: will be re- tained in position. Usually two pins suffice ; the method is similar to that described for fracture of the nasal bones (see Fig. 30). It is well to plug the opening of the nostrils with strips of iodoform gauze, a drainage tube or a portion of a large catheter being introduced through the centre of the plug to maintain the airway. As soon as the oozing has stopped, the wound is dressed with salicylic wool fixed on with collodion, and the raw surface on the forehead whence the flap has been raised may be grafted at once by Thiersch's method; any angles of the wound which can be brought together by stitches should be sutured, so as to diminish the area requiring grafting. The after-treatment is very simple. The wound is not touched for four or five days, when some of the stitches may be taken out, the rest being removed later. The plug of gauze should be changed once or twice a day. The pins may be left in situ for three or four weeks. At the end of about four weeks, the pedicle of the flap should be divided at the root of the nose and the parts there pared and sutured; the rest of the pedicle is then turned upwards and replaced in the wound in the forehead. Subsequently some small plastic operations may be required to improve the shape of the nose thus formed or to cut away redundant tissue. The columella, if it has not been fashioned with the forehead flap, can be readily formed afterwards from the upper lip. A narrow strip of the middle line of the upper lip is isolated by vertical incisions beginning just below the aperture of the naves on each side and cutting downwards through the entire thickness of the lip to the free margin. This small portion is turned upwards, the frenum being divided, and its free end is stitched to the tip of the nose, which is refreshed for the purpose. The new columella will have its cutaneous surface looking backwards while the mucous surface is external. Nasal plugs Fig. 57.—The Italian or Tag- LtACOTIAN Method OF Rhino- PLASTVi—Thedrawing shows semi- diagrammatically the kind of apparatus required to keep the arm in position during the union of the flap.