446 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LARYNX. arytenoids are more or less symmetrically affected in a similar way, and under the semi-translucent mucous membrane are whitish or yellowish miliary tubercles which soon reach the surface and ulcerate. These little ulcers spread, coalesce and give rise to the worm-eaten, irregular ulceration on the surface of the cedematous swelling which is so characteristic of laryngeal phthisis. Symptoms.—In the first three varieties described the symptoms are often slight. The voice may be hoarse or completely lost; if ulceration be present there is pain on speaking or coughing, but usually there is not much dysphagia, and the general health may be fair. In the fourth variety the patient's condition is usually extremely miserable. There is difficulty in swallowing, especially liquids, because the cedematous structures prevent complete closure of the superior aperture of the larynx. Where ulceration occurs swallowing becomes extremely painful, the saliva dribbles from the mouth, and patients frequently prefer to starve rather than to take food. If the condition goes on to perichondritis, abscesses may form either in the larynx or in the neck, and are accompanied by necrosis of cartilage. The oedema and swelling rarely give rise to dyspnoea, partly because the part affected, the upper aperture of the larynx, is the widest part of the tube, and partly because ulceration takes place early and rapidly. Treatment.—1. Of the pre-tuberculous stage.—Bearing in mind the fact that laryngeal phthisis is invariably a complication of pulmonary tuber- culosis and results from infection of the laryngeal mucous membrane by the bacilli in the sputum, the importance of preventive treatment is obvious. The simple laryngitis, so frequent in the course of phthisis, must therefore be vigorously treated. At the same time the general treatment of phthisis must be carried out, tonics, change of climate, etc., being prescribed as necessary. Especial care must be taken to prevent too frequent or too violent coughing, which may damage the laryngeal mucous membrane. The voice should be rested as much as possible and the sedative applica- tions recommended for acute laryngitis (see p. 425) must be assiduously applied. If the condition becomes chronic it must be met by stimulating or astringent paints, frequently applied (see p. 428). In many cases the in- halation of creosote (see p. 428, footnote) is especially useful. The patient should, if possible, live in a suitable dry and bracing climate, and should always give up smoking entirely, take only a small amount of alcohol, well diluted, and soft and unirritating food. In this way laryngeal com- plications may be rendered much less common. 2. Of isolated tuberculous tumours. —The best treatment is removal if the patient be in fair general health. These growths usually only give rise to hoarseness or loss of voice, but this has a depressing effect upon the patient. Moreover the tumours, although stationary for years, must be considered a constant menace, whilst their removal is usually easy and free from danger. The risk of infection by the sputum of the raw surface