394 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE EAR. ducing pledgets of wool rolled up so as to form a long cone (see Fig- 135)- The patient can be easily taught this method, which is both safe and effective, and he should never be allowed to wrap wool around the end of a stick or probe, as is commonly done. When the ear has been dried, boracic powder should be blown into the deeper part of the meatus. This can be easily accomplished by filling the end of a glass tube or quill with powder, inserting it in the ear and blowing through the other end. By means of a rubber tube the patient can do this for himself. A small pledget of wool is then inserted into the meatus. Iodol, iodoform and other powders have been recommended to be used in a similar way, but, being insoluble, they are extremely apt to be retained in the ear, to form large crusts and to hinder the outflow of the discharge. Much harm may therefore result from them and they should never be used except under the personal supervision of the surgeon. As soon as the powder or wool becomes moist, the cleansing should be repeated, and pus should never be allowed to accumulate in the external meatus. If the discharge be profuse, syringing every two hours may be necessary, but as it diminishes twice and finally once a day will be sufficient. In some cases, when the discharge is becoming scanty, syringing seems to produce irritation and to keep up the discharge. In these circumstances and also when the above treatment fails to completely stop the discharge the syringing should be discontinued and the dry treatment adopted. The ear should be simply mopped out with wool in the way above described and a very little boracic powder insufflated; this will commonly be successful. Where this treatment fails, instillations should be tried. These consist of various solutions, a few drops of which are warmed and poured into the ear after it has been thoroughly cleansed and dried. A most useful instilla- tion is rectified spirit, which may be used in gradually increasing strengths, starting at about thirty per cent, and increasing it if no pain beyond momentary stinging is produced. The good effect of this is often increased by adding twenty grains of boracic acid to each ounce of spirit. Another useful solution is nitrate of silver, which should be used at first not stronger than five grains to the ounce, and increased up to twenty as it can be tolerated. Chloride or sulphate of zinc may be used in similar strengths, and when the perforation is small they are best injected through the per- foration into the middle ear by the surgeon himself with an intra-tympanic syringe. A little cotton-wool should be worn in the external meatus. Constitutiotial treatme?ii.—Many patients are debilitated, and tonics, such as cod-liver oil and syrup of the iodide or phosphate of iron, are required, especially in children. Careful examination must also be made of the nose Fic. 135.—Cotton- wool Mop. This is also useful as an arti- ficial drum, when the roll should be shorter so as not to project from the meatus.