122 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. opposite side. Should the sub-mental glands alone be enlarged, the best incision for their removal is a curved one beneath the chin parallel to the jaw and somewhat nearer to the latter than to the hyoid bone (see Fig. 34); the enlarged glands are generally superficial to the genio-hyoid* muscle, but they are sometimes found between and even beneath these muscles, so that a very careful search must be made to see that all are removed If necessary, any enlarged glands can generally be made more prominent by having the floor of the mouth pushed well downwards by an assistant so as to make the whole sub-mental region project forwards. When the disease is so extensive that a plastic operation becomes necessary after the removal of the primary growth, it will be unneces- sary to make special, incisions for the removal of the enlarged glands, as those requisite for the plastic opera- tion will generally be made below the jaw and will permit free access to the glands. Should the growth be adherent to the jaw, a portion of the latter must be removed, as it is never advisable to be content with merely peel- ing off the periosteum. When the growth has become adherent to the bone, the cells have usually penetrated into the latter and recurrence is certain unless the bone be widely removed. At the same time it must be remembered that the removal of portions of the jaw nearly always leaves a troublesome deformity and should not therefore be done unless it is certain that the disease has penetrated to the bone. When the jaw is affected, it is usually from a growth, which, commencing upon the mucous membrane, has spread to the frenum and so to the mucous membrane of the jaw, and a large portion of the lip will usually require removal, for which it is impossible to give the exact incisions as they must be planned according to the amount requiring removal and according to the requirements of the subsequent plastic operation. If nearly the whole of the lower lip has to be removed, the incisions should be carried down wide of the growth to the point of the chin, and should be straight and not concave as described above. One of the best forms of plastic operation is to continue the lateral incisions beneath the jaw in a curve which reaches up nearly to the angle of the bone on each side (see Fig. 35, A). The flap thus formed must be dissected up well on each side; in front, the skin and mucous membrane must be separated from the jaw, whilst behind, the skin and subcutaneous tissues of the neck are dissected up, and this should be done before steps are taken to remove