MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE UPPER JAW. 217 complete excision of the upper jaw and subsequently refer to the modifi- cations which have just been mentioned. Excision Of the upper jaw—Besides the ordinary preparations for an operation, it is sometimes advisable when the patient is old and feeble and not likely to stand any great loss of blood, and when the growth is extensive, to administer about three hours before the operation an enema containing a drachm of chloride of calcium to the pint of water, with the view of promoting the coagulability of the blood and thus diminishing the haemorrhage from the wound. Chloroform is the best anaesthetic; the patient may be put under gas and ether, but, during the course of the operation, chloroform is the only available anaesthetic. The head should be placed on a level with the body, or it may be somewhat de- pressed, the neck and upper part of the shoulders lying on a sandbag, and slightly turned towards the healthy side. In this way the field of operation is well exposed and the blood tends to collect in the naso-pharynx and does not em- barrass the breathing. The facial artery on each side should be compressed against the jaw, and the surgeon grasps one side of the upper lip between his thumb and forefinger, and the assistant grasps the other, so as to control the coronary Fig. 76.—Incision for Removal of the . . . Upper Jaw. The incision be is used for arteries. The upper lip IS divided m partial operations, the limb ab along the lower margin of the orbit being used if necessary or the middle line right Up tO the Columella, if the entire bone has to be removed. The ... . . , lower incision de is for excision of the lower and the incision is carried along the jaw. margin of the nostril curving around the ala of the nose up to the inner angle of the orbit just below the lachrymal sac. From this point it is curved outwards along the lower margin of the orbit, stopping short about half an inch before the outer end is reached (see Fig. 76). In some cases where the malar bone is involved, and an extensive operation is necessary, it may be necessary to carry the incision outwards as far as the latter bone. Where, on the other hand, the operation deals chiefly with the lower part of the upper jaw, this incision below the eye can be made shorter, or indeed in some cases may be avoided altogether. The shorter this incision is the less is the orbicularis damaged, and, when the incision does not extend as far out as the malar bone, its nerve supply remains intact. The flap thus marked out is rapidly raised, care being taken both to avoid the tumour and to cut the flap thick enough to avoid any risk of sloughing. The flap should be cleared right back to the posterior margin