1/9 CLEFT PALATE. Complications.—There are two complications common to all operations for cleft palate which require attention. 1. Bleeding.—As a rule the haemorrhage, though free at first, is easily controlled by gentle sponge pressure. If it be obstinate, it generally results from incomplete division of the posterior palatine artery or some of its branches. Secondary haemorrhage may also occur and is fairly common in weak, anaemic children or in those who are the subject of haemophilia. Treatment.—This is comparatively simple. If it be troublesome at the time of the operation and sponge pressure will not stop it, the clots should be carefully wiped from the region of the lateral incisions and the source of haemorrhage exposed. If it comes from a partially divided vessel at the end of the incision, the extension of the incision will probably suffice, especially if combined with firm pressure directly upon the bleeding point either with the finger or a small piece of sponge. The treatment of secondary haemorrhage is sometimes more difficult. In the first place an attempt should be made to check the bleeding by syringing away the clots with iced boracic lotion, and small pieces of ice enclosed in muslin may be pressed against the lateral incision from which the bleeding is coming. If this fails, an anaesthetic should be given and, after the blood- clot has been cleared away, the bleeding point should be exposed. If firm pressure on it is not effectual, and if the vessel cannot be picked up in forceps and tied, the bleeding will probably be coming from the posterior palatine canal, and an attempt should be made to stop it by temporarily plugging the canal with a fine probe. If this does not succeed, the canal may be plugged with Horsley's wax (see p. 47). 2. Failure of Union.—The other important complication is failure of union at some part of the cleft. The failure may be partial or entire. It generally happens that only some portion gives way and it is most common to find a deficiency either at the extreme anterior end or about the junc- tion of the hard with the soft palate. Non-union may be due to one of three principal causes : (a) Imperfect operation.—The cleft may be insufficiently pared, generally because each side has not been pared in a single piece and thus some part has been overlooked or only a very narrow portion removed; the tension upon the flaps may be so great as to interfere with union ; the flaps may be brought badly into apposition, one edge being curled up so that the raw surfaces are not together; the stitches may be tied either too loosely or too tightly; or the flap may be so bruised by rough handling that its vitality is seriously diminished. (l>) Intercurrent inflammatory affections such as a severe cold, the onset of a specific fever or ordinary septic infection may entirely prevent union. Septic infection of the line of incision is largely predisposed to by roimh handling of the flaps. (c) Want of proper care in the after-treatment may bring about failure of union. Among the most important factors leading to failure of union