223 INTRA-NASAL MALIGNANT TUMOURS. is chiselled away, so that the growth and the bone beneath are lifted away in one piece along with a fair amount of healthy tissue around. The bleeding is usually easily stopped by pressure, and when this lias been done the surface may be sponged with chloride of zinc and the lip and nose replaced in position j as a rule, no stitches are required. The plugs in the posterior nares are then removed, and the patient put back to bed with the head somewhat raised. Rouge's operation is also employed for the removal of polypi, etc., and it has the great advantage that it prevents any scar; at the same time it has only a limited applica- tion, especially in cases of malignant disease, on account of the small area of the nasal cavity which is thoroughly exposed to view. The external operation.—When the disease is extensive, or far back, the most satisfactory plan is by an external operation. The simplest of these is to divide the upper lip in the middle line into the affected nostril, and then, carrying the incision outwards, to detach the ala of the nose from the bone. The incision must be carried upwards on to the nasal bones, and the cheek must be separated so that it can also be pulled well outwards. In some cases it may be necessary to detach the cartilaginous from the bony nose, so as to turn the parts more completely aside. By this operation a complete view of the bony orifice of the nostril may be got, and, by chipping away portions of the superior maxilla, access can gradually be got for a considerable distance backwards; the posterior nares should be plugged. For malignant disease we believe that the external operation is more satisfactory than Rouge's opera- tion, and of course the first object in these cases is to remove the disease thoroughly, the slight scarring along the side of the nose being a matter of secondary importance. MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE LOWER JAW. In the lower jaw, as in the upper, are found both superficial tumours and those affecting the substance of the bone. Epitheliomata of the lower jaw due to the extension of growth from the floor of the mouth or the tongue on to the adjacent portions of the jaw are quite common; primary malignant tumours of the lower jaw, either periosteal or endosteal, are also frequently met with. Treatment.—In cases of epithelioma affecting the alveolus and not spreading into the substance of the bone it is usually possible to remove the affected portion without destroying the continuity of the lower jaw ; this is a point of extreme importance, because if a portion of the whole thickness of the jaw be removed, the line of the teeth is apt to be so altered that proper mastication is no longer possible. Hence, in cases of epithelioma spreading on to the alveolus, a bridge of bone should be left below whenever it is possible. The mucous membrane must be incised around the ulcer after extraction of the necessary teeth and the included portion of bone removed by vertical saw-cuts joined transversely below;.