36 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. Cranio-tabes is a localised thinning of the skull in infants which is essentially due to rickets. By some authorities it has been ascribed to congenital syphilis, but it seems probable that rickets is the chief factor in its production. The condition of cranio-tabes shows itself either by imperfect ossification of the skull or by subsequent malformations of portions of the cranium in which ossification has already taken place. The result is that the cranial bones become thickened in some parts, while in others, especially where they are subject to pressure, they become extremely thin and openings through the bone may actually form. The condition is most marked over the parietal and occipital bones where the head is subject to pressure, the result being that the skull is usually flattened posteriorly. Along with cranio-tabes, signs of rickets may be found in the bony skeleton elsewhere, and also various nervous symptoms, such as laryngismus stridulus, which are characteristic of the ricketty condition and which may in part be ascribed to actual irritation of the cerebral cortex by pressure. Treatment.—The treatment of this condition is the treatment of rickets (see Part III., Chap. XIII.). When an infant shows a tendency to rickets, care should be taken that its position is frequently changed, so that there is no prolonged pressure on any individual cranial area; if the bone has actually become thinned, some arrangement, such as a celluloid or aluminium shield, or a ring-pad, must be devised to take off pressure altogether. LEONTIASIS OSSIUM. This condition is the reverse of the preceding one; in it the bone is immensely thickened from causes which are not definitely determined. A somewhat similar condition of hypertrophy of the skull may also occur in osteitis deformans, but we need say no more about it here as there is practically no treatment for it (see Part III., p. 217). Leontiasis ossium consists of thickening of the bones of the skull, which are much distorted in appearance owing to the presence of local osseous deposits. It sometimes gives rise to a sort of leonine aspect, hence the name, Leontiasis. These new-formed bosses of bone may occur on the cranial bones or in connection with the jaws,—especially the upper; they give rise to remarkable deformities and to various pressure symptoms. For example, when the bosses are on the upper jaw or the frontal bone, the pressure is very apt to be exerted in the orbit and this may lead to loss of sight. When the vertex is affected, the pressure may cause various brain symptoms. Treatment.—The disease is very slow in its progress and we know of no means of checking it. In some cases however surgery may be of value for the relief of the pressure symptoms. For example, when a tumour is growing towards the orbit and interferes with vision, or when it • presses on the brain, the removal of the particular boss of bone is indicated.