THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. is made with a chisel through the inferior wall of the frontal sinus. This opening should be made at a spot on the supra-orbital margin vertically above the inner canthus, for if a frontal sinus exist it is certain to be met with here. It must be remembered that there is no diploic tissue at all in the inferior wall and only very little in the anterior. Therefore when definite diploe is exposed, it is probable that the sinus is absent and the operation must be stopped. For this reason it is safer to use a gouge or chisel rather than a trephine. Having opened the sinus, a probe is passed into it to ascertain its extent, and the opening is then enlarged sufficiently to enable its interior to be thoroughly examined. If no pus be found, the wound is carefully sutured, and if the whole operation has been done aseptically no trouble will ensue. Fig. 125.—A Dissection to Illustrate the Relations of the Frontal Sinus. The right frontal sinus and the infundibulum have been freely opened from the front. On the left side a flap has been turned back, as in operations on the sinus, to show the position of the pulley of the superior oblique, it. Lachrymal duct; b. commencement of the infundibulum ; c. nasal septum; d. pulley of the superior oblique ; e. cavity of the frontal sinus; f. line of incision in the supra-orbital margin ; g. tendon of the superior oblique. If pus be found, the skin incision should be extended downwards in a curved direction to the level of the inner canthus. The periosteum should then be detached downwards and backwards from the inferior wall of the sinus, in doing which the pulley of the superior oblique muscle may be displaced (see Fig. 125). This gives rise to no subsequent trouble; slight temporary diplopia may occur but soon passes off and is probably due to effusion into the orbit rather than to the interference with the muscle. The opening into the sinus is now enlarged by cutting away its inferior wall, and the inner wall of the orbit is removed as far down as it has been exposed by the incision so as to give free access to the infundibulum. If the sinus contain polypi they are removed and the bony walls carefully examined for caries, perforation, etc., which if found must be dealt with. The question whether to attempt obliteration of the sinus or simply to procure free drainage must now be decided. Obliteration leads to a certain, and usually speedy, cure, and is always to be preferred when the sinus is