THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. SYPHILIS OF THE SKULL. In the secondary stage of syphilis, periosteal nodes are not uncommon. They are chiefly found over the frontal bone and usually affect the external surface. A condition of syphilitic periostitis may also be met with in the interior, most frequently perhaps about the foramina through which the various cranial nerves issue from the skull, the resulting pressure leading to paralysis of the nerves involved. Treatment.—The treatment in the secondary stage is practically the same as that for secondary bone lesions elsewhere, i.e. a mercurial course both internally and locally, with, towards the later period of the secondary stage, the administration of iodide of potassium in addition (see Part III., p. 203). In the tertiary stage, the skull is one of the favourite seats of syphilitic bone disease and it may occur either in the form of a chronic osteitis or of gummatous disease, the latter frequently resulting in necrosis. In most cases, indeed, the two processes are combined, the original trouble being the formation of a gumma in the periosteum or the diploe with subsequent osteitis around. Gummatous disease of the bones most often affects the frontal bone, and the condition used to be spoken of as "corona veneris." The whole thickness of the bone or only the external surface may be affected, and the gummata are usually multiple. Very soon the gummatous infiltra- tion spreads to the soft tissues, which ultimately give way and lead to characteristic tertiary syphilitic ulcers with dead bone at the bottom. Gum- matous disease of the skull may be very serious on account of the risk of various complications, such as erysipelas, sinus thrombosis, septic menin- gitis, etc. Treatment.—In the earlier stages, the treatment will be that appro- priate for tertiary bone lesions elsewhere (see Part III., p. 204), namely the administration of large doses of iodide of potassium combined with mercury, and, when ulceration is present, the local application of mercurial ointment or, if that be not deemed necessary, of some antiseptic ointment such as boracic acid. When there is necrosis of the skull, however, the question of operative treatment may arise, for in a considerable number of instances large doses of iodide of potassium employed for a long time may produce very little amelioration of the symptoms, and the necrosed fragment may remain adherent to the living bone for a lengthened period. It may therefore become advisable to remove the necrosed fragment with portions of the thickened bone in the vicinity, so as to leave a fairly healthy wound which will heal readily under the anti-syphilitic remedies. Sequestrotomy.—The removal of the sequestrum is usually fairly easily effected as follows. In all the cases there is an ulcer which must be dealt with first. The scalp should be thoroughly purified in the usual manner, and it is well to scrape the ulcer and pare away its margins; after arrest- ing the bleeding, the raw surface is impregnated with undiluted carbolic