FUNCTIONAL PARALYSIS. 453 return at once, constitutional remedies should be persevered in, the larynx regularly painted, and the patient encouraged until the voice returns, and in this way success will usually be obtained without the use of any of the violent measures so commonly recommended. Moreover, the cure will be a permanent one, which is not always the case when the voice has been forced back by strong applications of a Faradic current or by other emotional influences. In many cases the application of a spray to the larynx, the mere passage of the brush into the larynx, or even the use of the laryngoscope alone is sufficient to secure the return of the voice, but the application of the astringent pigments as above recommended is on the whole the most likely to be successful. In the more severe cases of hysteria, and when after a thorough trial the above treatment has been unsuccessful, the application of the Faradic current may be tried. This may be done either through the skin or by means of the endo-laryngeal electrode. The former is preferable in the first instance; one pole should be placed over the back of the neck and the other applied over the larynx being moved up and down and from side to side so as to stimulate the various muscles. The current should be a mild one, such as can be easily tolerated, and it may be gradually increased. The patient should be made to phonate while the current is passing. The endo-laryngeal method consists in passing a special electrode by means of the laryngoscope into the larynx and placing it upon the various endo-laryngeal muscles, the other pole being placed as before on the back of the neck. This instrument usually excites a considerable amount of laryngeal spasm. By its means, if a sufficiently strong current be used, the voice can practically always be restored, at least momentarily, but in too many such cases a relapse occurs almost as soon as the patient has left the surgeon's room, and the case becomes a more obstinate one than ever. It is therefore better to bring the voice back gradually by gentle means, to coax it back, as it were, rather than to force it back. Very rarely all means of treatment will fail. This is especially seen when violent means to secure the return of the voice have been adopted, but even then an ultimate cure is probable, the voice returning months or even years after all treatment has been discontinued, often apparently without any cause. FUNCTIONAL LARYNGEAL SPASM. This is an extremely rare affection occurring in hysteria, and is due to tonic spasm of the adductor muscles; it gives rise to all the symptoms of bilateral abductor paralysis, but the dyspnoea, although often pronounced, is never fatal. The condition may be recognised by placing the laryngoscope in position, making the patient phonate, and encouraging her to maintain the sound until the air in the chest is completely exhausted; directly phonation ceases the vocal cords separate widely for a moment.