CHRONIC INFLAMMATIONS. 315 of the middle turbinate be present, they should be removed. It has often been objected to this that such obstructions are beneficial, since the nostril is already too wide, but inasmuch as they are products of disease and may be sources of irritation and may maintain the discharge they should always be removed. In all cases of ozrena in which there is the least reason to suspect suppuration in any of the accessory sinuses, these cavities should always be explored. The maxillary and the sphenoidal sinuses are by far the most commonly affected. There is never any harm in puncturing the antrum from the inferior meatus, and in many cases the opening of the sphenoidal sinus can be seen through the widened nostril, and a suitably curved cannula can be introduced into the opening and the sinus washed out. Should such a complication be found suitable treatment should be adopted (see p. 341, et seq.). (b) Constitutional.—Constitutional remedies are generally required. Of these, change of air, especially to a bracing seaside resort, is probably of the greatest benefit; cod-liver oil, iron, etc., are also frequently indicated. But it is a fact that children with this disease are commonly in robust health. Where tertiary syphilis is present, or even suspected, anti-syphilitic treatment must be adopted. The disease may be the result of inherited syphilis, and although specific treatment will have no direct effect upon it in its later stages, still it may often be adopted with advantage in cases in which the inherited taint has never been eradicated. NASAL POLYPUS.—The ordinary mucous polypus of the nose is of inflammatory origin. It is essentially an cedematous infiltration of the mucous membrane, due to disease in the underlying bone. Structure.—Polypi mainly consist of a loose, reticulated tissue which in parts may have undergone myxomatous degeneration. The meshes of the tissue are distended with serum. Throughout the growth are masses of round-celled infiltration and numerous blood-vessels, glands, etc., similar to those in the normal mucous membrane. Its surface is more or less completely covered by epithelium, and at its edges the growth passes im- perceptibly into the normal mucous membrane- Site of origin.—Polypi generally spring from the concavity of the middle turbinate, from the lower part of the infundibulum, the uncinate process or the bulla ethmoidalis. Next in frequency they arise from the long free border of the middle turbinate. Very rarely indeed are they attached to the roof of the nose or to the septum, and never do true polypi arise from the inferior turbinate. Tendency to recur.—These growths have a most marked tendency to recur after removal. This depends in part upon the fact that their site of origin is commonly very inaccessible, and consequently, after all the visible polypi have been removed from the nose, others may still be packed away in the recesses under the middle turbinate and may rapidly enlarge and develop after pressure has been removed. I believe, however, that