AFFECTIONS OF THE SKULL. 25 Compound depressed fracture.—When a depressed fracture is compound the conditions are not nearly so favourable, for there is certain to be septic material in the wound and the fractured surfaces are probably extensively soiled. The first point, after having shaved the head and thoroughly dis- infected the scalp, is to open up the wound in the skin in any direction needful to fully expose the injured area. The skin is raised with the pericranium attached to it and held aside so as to expose the fracture. Before proceeding to deal with the bone itself, the best plan is to thoroughly disinfect the edges and deeper parts of the wound in the manner already described (see p. 7), and to apply undiluted carbolic acid to the raw surfaces in addition. Any bleeding vessels are then clamped and the fracture is next dealt with. The entire fractured area should be opened up completely, either by the removal of loose fragments or by a preliminary trephining in the immediate neighbourhood (see p. 22). The loose frag- ments should all be removed and the fractured surfaces cleaned from dirt and blood-clot and touched with undiluted carbolic acid. It is usually best not to replace the detached fragments in these cases ; they are soiled and must be disinfected thoroughly and their vitality may be thereby so seriously impaired that they may fail to unite afterwards. At the same time, decalcified bone if at hand, may be cut up into fragments and spread over the dura mater, and, if this does not afterwards separate, it will lead to the formation of a strong fibrous membrane over the opening in the bone. In all cases of compound fracture the wound should be stitched up over the line of fracture, but an opening should be made for drainage at the most dependent part because it can never be certain that the disinfection has been successful. 3. Of punctured fracture.—A case of punctured fracture must always be operated upon in order to remove the detached portions of the internal table of the skull which are almost certain to be projecting against and irritating the dura mater. The same holds good with regard to "gutter fractures" produced by swords, axes, etc. The best plan is to turn down a flap which has the hole in the skin about its centre, and the opening in the skin itself should be thoroughly disinfected as already described (see p. 7). The trephine is then applied with the pin just at the edge of the puncture in the bone so that the circle of bone removed includes the punctured portion; when the circle of bone has been taken away, the detached fragments of the internal table must be removed. If the dura mater be injured, it will be advisable to enlarge the opening in it, because fragments of the internal table are apt to be carried on into the brain ; these must be carefully sought for and removed. If possible, the opening in the dura should be closed by catgut stitches, and in most cases it is not advisable to put back the circle of bone or any portions of it. It will often be found in these cases that it is only necessary to go through the external table with the trephine, the broken-up inner table being thus at once exposed. The wound is stitched up and