293 FOREIGN BODIES. removed, the patient may still find considerable difficulty in breathing through the nose, which is relieved ' at once by the introduction of a nasal speculum. There is in these cases a large furrow externally just behind the cartilage of the alae. Treatment.—The cause of the nasal obstruction having been removed, the best way of overcoming this deformity is to insert into the vestibule a small circle of rubber tubing, sufficiently large to distend the ala com- fortably. This must be regularly worn, and the patient instructed to remove it for cleaning and to re-insert it. When in position it should not be visible externally. FOREIGN BODIES IN THE NOSE. Foreign bodies in the nose are found almost exclusively in children, and consist of such articles as boot buttons, beads, pieces of paper, string, india-rubber, pencils, berries, etc., and more rarely the larvse of various flies. The last are more common in adults in association with sinus sup- puration. Attention is generally drawn to these cases by a purulent dis- charge from one nostril, which excoriates the upper lip and is extremely fcetid. When these symptoms are present a foreign body should always be sought for both by inspection and by means of a probe, an anaesthetic being given if necessary. Treatment.—By far the most efficient instrument for the removal of these bodies is an ordinary strabismus hook. This should be passed well up into the middle meatus of the nose over and beyond the foreign body without touching the mucous membrane, so as not to arouse any resist- ance on the part of the child. Having got it into position behind the foreign body, it is gently drawn forward, and should the child now pull backwards no harm is done. In this way the large majority of foreign bodies may be easily removed. In a very few cases it is necessary to give chloroform; it is not necessary to produce complete anaesthesia, but simply to give the child enough to keep him quiet. In adults a little cocaine may be sprayed into the nostril. In other cases foreign bodies may be grasped and removed with a pair of nasal forceps, but if this be attempted, it is advisable to in- troduce the finger into the post-nasal space to prevent the foreign body slipping from the forceps and passing back into the throat. No attempt should be made by syringing down the opposite nostril to force a foreign body out by a stream of water coming from behind. This is dangerous, as considerable force may be required, and the infected fluid may enter the Eustachian tubes. Syringing should only be employed when larvae, etc., are present in the nose, and in these cases it is gener- ally better to destroy the larvae by spraying with alcohol (10 per cent.), or formalin per cent.), and subsequently to employ the syringe.