THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS. 196 suppuration at some period of their progress and in some there may be the formation of a large abscess and more or less extensive necrosis. Sometimes, but very rarely, septicaemia may follow. 2. Dental neuralgia and loosening of the teeth.—In nearly all fractures of the jaw where the fracture is situated behind the mental foramen, severe toothache is at first complained of. Sometimes this may be due to partial tearing of the inferior dental nerve as it lies in its canal in the lower jaw ; more commonly however it is due to stretching of the nerve by the separation of the fragments; when the fracture is reduced and the tension removed the neuralgia disappears. The teeth adjacent to the frac- ture are very commonly extremely loose, so that they could be easily removed with the fingers, but it is well to remember that this should on no account be done as the teeth will probably become firmly fixed in their sockets in the course of a few days; if partially displaced, they should be carefully put into position and if necessary secured to the sound teeth by silver wire. 3. Cerebral injury.—This complication is rare and generally results from the severe jarring transmitted through the condyles to the base of the brain as the result of the upward blow causing fracture of the jaw. There may be aural haemorrhage when the condyle is driven back against the external auditory canal. An excessively rare complication is that of salivary fistula where the submaxillary or sublingual ducts are torn across. 4. Ununited fracture.—This is also very uncommon and generally only occurs after necrosis about the seat of fracture. TREATMENT.—(a) Of the fracture.—The treatment of fracture of the lower jaw varies according as the seat of fracture is anterior to the last molar tooth or behind it. (1) When the fracture is anterior to the last molar tooth.—In all these cases, the best treatment, whenever it is possible to use it, is Hammond's tvire splint (see Fig 74). It is easy of application, comfortable to the patient, secures perfect apposition of the fragments and perfect immobility during the consolidation of the fracture, and it enables the jaw to be used almost from the first. The following is the method of application. If the fracture be situated at all far back, it is necessary in the first place to take a mould1 of the teeth in the lower jaw after the fracture has been temporarily replaced in position ; this is done to allow the splint to be properly fashioned before adjusting it. If however the fracture be near the canine tooth, there will be plenty of room for the necessary mani- pulations and a mould need not be taken. The splint consists essentially of a frame of fairly stout iron wire plated or nickelled, which is applied around the necks of two or more sound teeth on both sides of the 1 If it be necessary to take a mould, this is best done under an anresthetic ; the mould is taken in the manner usually adopted by dentists, while the fragments are held firmly in position by the surgeon. From the mould a cast is taken in plaster of Paris and upon this cast the wire frame is modelled.