THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. 136 periosteum of the skull in all portions of the incision, except in the straight part at the base; the tissues were then retracted and the periosteum divided upon the bone in the same direction and as far as the straight part at the base. " With a chisel a groove was cut in the bone corresponding to the divided periosteum. This groove went to the vitreous plate, except at the upper angle over the rounded portion, where it included the vitreous plate. "A periosteum elevator was here inserted and used as a lever to snap the bone on a line between the ends of the circular portion of the incision. In this way the breakage occurs along the lower portion of the wound, and a flap, consisting of skin, muscle, periosteum and bone, is thrown down exposing the dura mater over a circular area of three inches in diameter. The middle meningeal artery was tied, the dura mater separated from the bone, and the floor of the middle fossa of the skull was exposed. Broad retractors were used to raise the dura mater with the brain, and to expose the foramen rotundum and the foramen ovale. The haemorrhage was stopped by sponge pressure. The exposure of the first, second, and third divisions of the fifth nerve, together with the carotid artery and cavernous sinus, was exceedingly good. " The second and third divisions were isolated at the foramen rotundum and the foramen ovale, and, by slight pressure upon the dura mater, it could be stripped from the nerves to beyond the Gasserian ganglion. These were divided with a tenotome at the foramen rotundum and the foramen ovale, and that part between these and a point beyond the Gasserian ganglion was excised. As this amount of nerve is not very great, the ends of the nerves were pushed through the two foramina so as, if possible, to interfere with any reunion. In the retraction of the dura mater, owing to imperfect instruments, the third, fourth, and sixth nerves were somewhat injured. As no bleeding was present, the brain was allowed to fill the fossa. The flap—consisting of bone, periosteum, muscle, and skin—was replaced. The irregular edge of the vitreous plate which remained attached to the bone, not involved in the flap, acted as a shelf on which the flap rested, and prevented its falling in upon the dura mater. The periosteum was stitched, the muscle sutured in place, and the skin sewn with silk. One drainage tube was inserted at the lower angle ; an antiseptic dressing was applied. Time of operation, one hour and forty minutes ; the patient was carried to the ward in good condition. The disadvantage was the inability to resect as long a piece as could be done in some of the other methods." Horsley's method.—This is somewhat similar to that of Hartley, but differs from it in one very important respect, namely, that the dura mater is opened, the temporo-sphenoidal lobe lifted up out of the way, and the sensory root of the fifth nerve isolated behind the ganglion and divided—in Prof. Horsley's original case it was pulled out from its medullary origin. As this operation seems unnecessarily severe as compared with the other two, and therefore much more likely to be fatal from shock, it has been largely supplanted by them.