SALIVARY FISTULA. Treatment.—Two points are aimed at in the treatment, namely—i. the diversion of the stream of saliva into the mouth, and 2. the closure of the opening in the skin. In some cases, when the orifice of the duct in the mouth is contracted and there is only a mere puncture of its wall, it may suffice to dilate the buccal orifice, to pare the edges of the opening in the cheek, and to stitch them closely together. The dilatation may be done with probes, but it is much more satisfactorily effected by slitting up the orifice so as to make a larger and more oblique opening. If possible a stitch may be inserted on each side between the duct wall and the mucous membrane. In most cases, however, the duct is more seriously damaged, and this treatment will not suffice. The exact method of treatment will vary according to the situation of the fistulous opening; in any case it must commence by providing free escape for the saliva into the mouth. If the fistulous opening be over the masseter, the channel thus required for the escape of the saliva is of considerable length, and is best made by thrusting a large-sized trochar from the opening in the cheek forwards into the mouth; if necessary this opening may be increased by tearing the soft tissues open and snipping away the mucous membrane around its buccal end, or even by the actual cautery. A large-sized drainage tube is drawn through the opening, one end projecting into the mouth and the other outwards through the cheek. This is kept in position by silk fastened to each end, the two ends being knotted behind the ear, and should be maintained in position for at least four days, when the communication into the mouth will be fairly well established. It should then be shortened so that its outer end just reaches the duct; the inner end inside the mouth is cut level with the mucous membrane and stitched in position. The external opening of the sinus is now pared and brought together. Union in the skin wound will usually occur readily enough as the saliva passes freely into the mouth through the drainage tube, which should be kept in place until sound union has taken place ; if any point fail to unite, it may be touched with caustic, or may be refreshed and again stitched up. When union is complete, the drainage tube may be withdrawn and the flow of saliva will keep open the track. When the fistulous opening is situated more anteriorly on the cheek, it may be possible to make an incision over the duct, dissect out its posterior uninjured portion, divide it across at the fistulous communication, and then, by making a puncture through the thickness of the cheek into the mouth just anterior to the masseter muscle, to pull the duct along that track and secure it in position in the mouth by sutures, the front end of the duct being slit up for about an eighth of an inch so as to leave a larger orifice. In this way the stream of saliva flows directly into the buccal cavity, and the external wound can be pared and stitched up. This procedure, however, can only be carried out when there is a considerable length of healthy duct between the masseter and the fistulous opening; when this is not the case, the plan recommended when the opening is over the masseter must be adopted, but here the length of the track to be made for the saliva is very much shorter.