THE SURGICAL AFFF.CTIONS OF THE HEAD. 9o One side of this triangle is then folded back on to the base so that its angle is reduced to 22^°. This folded-down portion is cut away and the remainder of the- paper is unfolded and forms a trapezium one of whose angles is 45° + 22V—tnat is t0 say 67The paper is then placed with one side of this angle along the middle line of the skull, and its apex 5 centimetres behind the middle of this line, that is to say it is applied over the upper end of the fissure of Rolando. The other edge of the paper runs downwards and forwards at an angle of 67\° and thus indicates the line of the fissure. The fissure being three and three-quarter inches in length, the lower end of it can also be marked out. Fig. 24.—Horsley's " Rolandometer." The graduated limb is set at an angle of 6?° to the other, which is placed along the vertical line of the skull from the root of the nose to the ext. occip. protuberance. The point of junction of the two limbs is applied 5 centimeters behind the centre of this line, so that the graduated limb slopes downwards and forwards ; it then lies over the fissure of Rolando. The position of the fissure of Sylvius may also require localising. Its bifurcation corresponds to a point two inches behind and about a quarter of an inch above the level of the external angular process of the frontal bone, and is situated just beneath the point of junction of the parietal, the great wing of the sphenoid, the frontal and the squamous bones. The anterior branch runs upwards and forwards beneath the line of the sphenoido-squamous suture and forms the anterior boundary of the so called motor region. Figs. 21 and 22 will show the relation of the con- volutions to these fissures as well as the relation of the various centres. Before disinfection it is well to mark out these lines on the scalp by means of nitrate of silver, a solution of thirty grains to the ounce being painted along the lines and allowed to dry, and when dry lightly brushed over with a solution of pyrogallic acid (five grains to the ounce). The characteristic silver stain is produced and is not washed away when the scalp is subsequently purified, as is the case with marks made with an aniline pencil. Chloroform is the best anesthetic, because it causes least congestion of the brain and, as suggested by Professor Horsley, it is advisable to administer a hypodermic injection of morphine (gr. |), about half an hour before the operation is commenced. After the skin has been purified, it