THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE EAR. 39° structure is much thinner than the old one and does not interfere with any good effects that have been obtained from the operation. If it does so, it may be removed a second, or even a third time. The results of this operation are disappointing. The majority of cases experience no improvement, and it is possible that the condition may be made worse. The effect of making the temporary perforation as above described should always be first tested and the more extensive operation proceeded with only when marked improvement has resulted. SCLEROSIS OF THE MIDDLE EAR This affection, commonly known as chronic dry catarrh, is one of the most common and the most intractable forms of middle-ear disease. It attacks people of all ages, but is especially common in young women of from twenty to thirty. The patient may present symptoms of anaemia or of general debility, but is generally in otherwise good health. In some cases the affection seems to be hereditary. It may be dated from, or may be increased by a severe illness or by parturition, etc. It is usually unassociated with any naso-pharyngeal or nasal trouble. Pathology.—The exact nature of the changes is perhaps unknown. In the majority of cases there is supposed to be fibrous thickening which binds the ossicles together, and is especially abundant around the plate of the stapes. There may also be fibrous thickening of the membrana tympani and of the membranes covering in the fenestras. This and the preceding affection cannot always be sharply differentiated. Symptoms.—The deafness comes on very slowly and is usually inter- mittently progressive but it never becomes absolute. The membrane as a rule appears nearly normal and is not particularly indrawn; the Eustachian tubes are open, often abnormally patent; the external meatus is frequently dry and glistening, with an absence of hairs and of cerumen. The hearing by bone conduction is exaggerated unless, as is common in advanced cases, some labyrinthine change is present. The field of hearing is altered, diminution being most marked for the low notes, such as the human voice. Most patients hear better in a noise. Tinnitus is usually present and may be extremely distressing. It commonly commences in the earlier stage of the affection and is the first thing to which the patient's attention is directed. Arrest and occasionally slight improvement is all that can be hoped for from treatment. On the other hand the affection is likely to be increased by any illness, anxiety, overwork, etc., and more rapidly in young people. Treatment.—Most success will be obtained by measures directed to the maintenance of the general health. In neurasthenia, strychnine should always be given together with an abundance of food and suitable exercise. If the patient can afford it, a prolonged residence, especially during the winter months, in a warm, dry climate is to be recommended. The experi-