429 CHRONIC LARYNGITIS only. In more obstinate cases the inter-laryngeal electrode may be used as for functional paralysis (see p. 453). Systematic voice exercises may be prescribed, but should never be persisted in if the voice becomes tired or hoarse. When the laryngitis essentially depends upon the over-use of the voice the patient should have lessons in voice-production, as a faulty method is usually the cause of the trouble. General treatment.—The predisposing causes above enumerated must be carefully sought for and as far as possible removed. General tonics and change of air are often particularly beneficial. Of pachydermia.—This condition is extremely chronic and intractable. The best plan is the persistent use of the remedies above described, to- gether with prolonged rest to the voice. At the same time any tendency to alcoholism should be corrected, the diet should be regulated, and any morbid diathesis, such as gout, should be treated. Occasionally benefit is obtained by the administration of iodide of potassium in small doses (gr. 5) thrice daily. Where there is much thickening in the inter-arytenoid fold, operative interference may be necessary. The best plan, having thoroughly cocainised the larynx, is to punch out a piece of the growth with a strong pair of cutting forceps such as Krause's or Lake's (see Fig. 144). Electrolysis has been recommended, but is extremely painful and tedious. The growths in the neighbourhood of the vocal processes may be similarly treated, the best instrument for the purpose being Krause's cutting forceps. In spite of removal, the growths commonly recur, and in advanced cases little im- provement can be obtained. In the milder cases, especially those depending upon disease of the upper air passages, if the cause can be removed and if the treatment for chronic laryngitis be persisted in, a cure will commonly result. Of singers' nodes.—These little growths will usually subside if the patient be able to completely rest the voice, and this is the only treat- ment that should be adopted with singers. In other cases, where rapid recovery is required and long rest is impossible, and where a perfectly fine voice is not essential, the growths may be removed with laryngeal forceps, but the greatest care must be taken not to injure the vocal cords. The voice should be rested for a short time after the removal, when complete recovery commonly ensues; there is no tendency for the growths to recur. Hemorrhages, if persisting after the laryngitis has subsided, should be treated on similar principles,—prolonged rest in singers, removal with forceps in other cases. LARYNGITIS SICCA. This affection consists essentially in dryness of the mucous membrane of the larynx with considerable congestion followed by hypertrophy. Causes.—The exciting causes may be exposure to cold or to irritating