59 INTRA-CRANIAL SUPPURATION. poral or cerebellar regions usually aggravates the pain. Cerebration is slow, and there is difficulty in concentrating the attention. Convulsions may occur, but they are not characteristic ; in fact, when convulsive movements with rigidity are present, the pus has passed into the sub-dural space. Optic neuritis is frequently met with; the pupils in the first instance may be con- tracted, but before very long they become dilated and fixed, and this dilatation in the earlier stage is most marked, or indeed may only be present, on the affected side. The coma gradually increases, and the fatal result is generally due either to gradual deepening of the coma or to the occurrence of lepto- meningitis. Usually the temperature rises towards the end, the breathing becomes quick, and there is great prostration. In some cases special symptoms may be present dependent on the situa- tion of the abscess, but as a rule localising symptoms are absent because the abscesses usually form outside the motor area. It may happen that as abscesses in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe increase in size they may exert pressure on the lower part of the ascending frontal and parietal convolutions, and this pressure may gradually extend upwards until various motor centres are affected. An extending paralysis affecting first the face, then the arm, and finally the leg without loss of sensation, indicates with great probability the presence of an abscess in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. Paralysis of individual nerves, such as the facial or the third nerve, as the result of the pressure is not common. Cerebellar abscesses have few localising symptoms. The prominent features are retraction of the head and neck, slow, feeble pulse and respira- tion, subnormal temperature, yawning, slow speech, optic neuritis, dilated pupils, rigidity of the masseters, and a history of vertigo and vomiting. When leptomeningitis occurs, the temperature rises and remains high without marked remissions, the pulse becomes more rapid, and there is general irritability. In lepto-meningitis also the cranial nerves are more frequently implicated than in the case of abscess. In sinus thrombosis the temperature is generally high with marked remis- sions, the pulse is rapid and feeble, there are frequent rigors followed by profuse perspirations, and later on there are symptoms of pulmonary embolism, diarrhoea, pain in the posterior triangles of the neck, tenderness in the sub-mastoid region and down the course of the jugular vein, and a general typhoid state. Treatment.—The various conditions above described are so inter- mingled when complications follow upon a chronic otorrhcea that it is not possible to consider the treatment of any one of them without the others ; moreover, as they all depend upon middle-ear disease, this must be treated first in every case. The first point therefore is to thoroughly open up the mastoid antrum and the middle ear. Any softened and diseased bone beyond the limits of the antrum should be gouged away, and in most cases it is well to extend the incision in the bone backwards so as to expose the lateral sinus and thus to ascertain the condition of the dura and of the sinus itself. The further steps of the treatment will depend upon the