18 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. arise. The bone is soft and the depression is generally spontaneously obliterated in a comparatively short time. Of course, if there should be any symptoms of compression or cerebral irritation, it is best to cut down upon the depressed area, trephine the bone, remove or elevate any portions of the inner table which may be displaced and arrest the haemorrhage ; but it is seldom that the operation is called for. FRACTURE OF BOTH TABLES OF THE SKULL—Fractures of both tables of the skull vary in character according to the nature of the instrument which causes the fracture, and according to the direction in which the force is applied, etc. They are usually divided into three great groups, namely, fissured fractures, depressed or comminuted fractures and punctured fractures, such as those caused by a bayonet wound or a sword- cut. 1. Fissured fracture.—When a fissured fracture is examined, no difference in level is found between the two portions of the bone. All that is seen from the outside is a crack in the skull. The fissures through the two tables seldom correspond exactly; usually the internal table is more broken up than the external. It may also happen that portions of the former may project downwards on to the dura mater. These fissured fractures, unless they lead to rupture of one of the meningeal arteries and thus cause haemorrhage between the dura mater and the bone, are not as a rule recognised, unless there is also a scalp wound com- municating with the fracture. When there is no wound, the existence of a fissure can only be suspected when complications, such as intra-cranial haemorrhage, supervene. 2. Depressed fracture.—Depressed fractures may be simple or com- pound, but, as a rule, a degree of violence sufficient to break up a portion of the bone and cause marked depression is also sufficient to rupture the scalp as well. The bone is broken up into several fragments according to the degree of violence producing the fracture; some of these fragments may be loose, so that there is a true comminuted fracture; others again may be only partly broken across and may still remain attached at some part. The degree of comminution and detachment of the fragments varies of course with the character of the force, but, even when the fragments are not detached, they may be bent downwards so as to exert considerable pressure on the brain. In addition, it is usual to find fissures of the skull radiating from the area of comminution. The internal table is always more extensively broken up and more detached than the external, so that the amount of injury evident externally does not fully indicate the amount of injury in the deeper parts. These fractures are naturally always associated with more or less haemorrhage, and the amount of blood effused beneath the skull is the chief cause of the symptoms of compression which follow. It is but seldom that the bone is sufficiently depressed to cause general compression symptoms, although when the depression is over a motor area it may give rise to paralysis or irritation