117 AFFECTIONS OF THE LIPS. inunction (see Part I., p. 233). Healing may also be expedited by dusting the sore with a powder of one part of calomel to three of starch. Should the sore be painful, the best plan is to rub its surface over with solid nitrate of silver. MUCOUS PATCHES.—The chief secondary affections of the lips are mucous patches, which occur most frequently about the angles of the mouth, and on the mucous surface. In the former situation especially, these patches are apt to ulcerate and give rise to irregular ulcers which are extremely painful. Treatment.—This is practically the same as for the primary sore just described ; in the more painful cases the use of the solid nitrate of silver is of especial value. Here also the patient must be strongly cautioned as to the infective nature of the condition. TUMOURS OF THE LIPS. N^IVUS.—The lip is sometimes the seat of extensive, subcutaneous, venous nasvus causing great swelling and deformity which are difficult to treat. It is more common in the upper than in the lower lip. Treatment.—The best methods are either electrolysis or injection. In either case too much must not be done at one sitting, owing to the Fig. 31.—Temporary Strangulation of a N^evus. A. Method of passing the sutures. The dotted lines indicate the threads traversing the thickness of the lip, the continuous ones indicating them as they emerge from the cutaneous and mucous surfaces. B. Method of dividing the ligatures. It is easily seen from the diagram how the circulation is completely controlled by tying together the corresponding ends of the ligatures. risk of producing sloughing either of the skin or, more probably, of the mucous membrane, in which case very serious septic infection might occur throughout the whole venous mass. Attempts at excision are seldom successful and they are accompanied with considerable risk of sepsis. Injections.—The injection of irritants into the tumour is comparatively easy. The circulation through the affected area of the lip may be readily