INTRA-CRANIAL SUPPURATION. 63 end at this point, and the next step is to provide for drainage, and to sew up the wound. A knife is thrust through the cartilage and mucous membrane of the external auditory canal, and the latter is split up longi- tudinally along its posterior aspect. A better plan is perhaps to cut out a large elliptical portion, so as to provide free drainage without the necessity for introducing stitches to pull the lips of the longitudinal incision apart'. These methods will be dealt with more in detail by Dr. Lack (see Div. II.), as will be also the after-treatment, the question of skin-grafting the cavity, etc. The incision through the skin is then closed with a few interrupted silkworm- gut sutures, and the cavity of the antrum is packed from the external meatus, through the opening in the cartilage, with narrow strips of cyanide gauze impregnated with iodoform emulsion. It is often advisable to open up the antrum in cases of chronic ear disease, both in order to cure the ear trouble and also to avoid the risk of the complications of which we are speaking; full details of the indica- tions for the operation under these circumstances and the best methods of carrying it out will be found in the section on the intrinsic diseases of the ear, by Dr. Lack. 2. Exposure of the lateral sinus.—The suppuration usually extends backwards; when the antrum is opened, pus may be found entering it from behind through a channel communicating with the sigmoid groove. In any case the removal of bone must be continued directly backwards from the antral cavity to the sigmoid groove, and it should be remem- bered that the latter lies much nearer the surface than does the antrum, and that therefore the bone must be very cautiously removed until the dura is exposed; a sharp gouge is the best instrument to use. The sinus must be exposed sufficiently freely to allow both its condition and that of the groove in which it lies to be accurately ascertained; if pus be present in the latter, the groove must be cut away both backwards and downwards until the infected area has been thoroughly exposed. In most of these cases the vein itself will be thrombosed; should it be still patent how- ever, as will be shown by free bleeding when punctured with a needle, the operation may cease at this point, after the mastoid cells have been cleared out. The wound should be packed with iodoform gauze and left open, and the dressing should be changed every twelve hours. Unless some further intra-cranial complication exists, the patient will greatly improve within forty- eight hours. 3. Treatment of sinus thrombosis.—When the lateral sinus is throm- bosed, the most important point is to determine whether the thrombus be infected. In the early stages this is not always easy, but to some extent the general symptoms are a guide. The presence of rigors, an intermittent temperature and other signs of pyaemia are of great help; additional information is afforded by ascertaining whether the clot in the sinus is firm and dark or whether it is softening and yellowish. When no genera/ symptoms of infective phlebitis exist, and the clot is firm and dark, the opera-