332 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. Treatment.—The treatment depends essentially upon the cause of the affection. If the antrum or other of the accessory sinuses be suspected, it should be thoroughly washed out and if necessary drained (see Chap. XXXI.). The antrum is the sinus far most likely to be affected, but the sphenoidal sinus also may be the source of trouble. In cases in which the dripping is more or less continuous, the fluid should be carefully analysed. Cerebro-spinal fluid may be recognised by its low specific gravity, by the absence of proteids and by the presence of a reducing substance which is not sugar. In these cases other nervous symptoms may be present, such as optic neuritis, severe headaches, (which usually appear just before the onset of the flow and are relieved by it) and neuralgic pains. No effective treatment has as yet been suggested. NASAL ASTHMA. As already seen, a form of asthma, commonly called "hay asthma" may occur in connection with hay fever, but the treatment directed to the cure of the latter condition has usually no beneficial effect on the asthma ; on the contrary, the latter often appears to be aggravated by operations to establish free nasal respiration. There has been great dispute as to whether a true nasal asthma exists; that is, as to whether asthma is ever a purely reflex condition resulting from some pathological change in the nasal mucous membrane. Some observers actually consider all asthma due to a nasal origin. Without assenting to this proposition and without expressing any opinion on the etiology of asthma in general, it is a fact that, by treating the nose alone, a large number of cases of asthma may be considerably improved and a few apparently quite cured. The possibility of a case of asthma being dependent upon nasal trouble is increased if any definite sensitive area or " cough spots" (spots which when touched by a probe provoke fits of coughing) can be dis- covered in the nose, or if any well-marked pathological condition be present. Also if, as is not very uncommon, the asthmatic attack is preceded or accompanied by a sudden onset of such symptoms as sneezing, nasal obstruction and rhinorrhcea. Treatment.—The particular treatment required depends upon the conditions found. The following propositions may be laid down: (1) In all cases of asthma a thorough and systematic examination of the nasal chambers should be instituted, and any pathological con- ditions found should be appropriately treated. (2) Nasal polypi should be removed, hypertrophied turbinates reduced and septal deflections or spurs remedied, and any sensitive spots in the nasal mucous membrane should be destroyed by the cautery. (3) Post-nasal growths if present should be removed, since asthma in children is not by any means unusually benefited by this operation.