378 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE EAR. and any errors in diet corrected. In many cases tonic treatment is required. ACUTE DIFFUSE INFLAMMATION.—Acute otitis externa is most frequently seen in association with acute suppuration in the middle ear. It may also be due to erysipelas, which not uncommonly commences in the meatus, but generally spreads subsequently to the auricle and to the sur- rounding skin. In other cases the condition may result from septic wounds or injuries of the external meatus. Symptoms.—The affection is accompanied by considerable pain referred to the meatus and front of the ear, the whole of which may be swollen and acutely tender. Examination with the speculum is difficult, almost impossible, on this account. There is commonly a thin watery discharge from the meatus, but, if marked deafness and purulent discharge be present, middle-ear disease must be suspected. Treatment. General.—The patient's general condition is usually such as to confine him to bed, and he should be kept upon a fluid diet: masti- cation, owing to the pain of moving the jaws, is commonly impossible. The pain in the ear must be relieved by hypodermic injections of morphine if necessary. It is best to commence the treatment by a purge followed by the administration of full doses of perchloride of iron and quinine. The strength must be maintained by giving plenty of nourishment and stimulants as required. Local.—In the severer cases relief is most quickly afforded by leeching the ear, four or five leeches being applied in an adult in the positions above recommended (see above). In the less severe cases a good blister over the mastoid may be substituted. The external meatus should be syringed with boracic lotion as hot as can be borne, the ear and the surrounding skin well bathed with hot water and hot boracic fomentations applied and changed frequently. These should be repeated hourly or every two hours as required until the pain has passed off and sleep is obtained. The sub- sequent treatment is similar to that of furuncle (see above). When suppura- tive otitis media is present this must also be appropriately treated (see p. 384). ECZEMA OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITORY MEATUS.—This common affection may be caused by an irritating discharge from the ear, by the presence of a decomposing foreign body, by mycosis, cholesteatoma, etc. In other cases it is dependent upon some constitutional cause, such as gout, when it is commonly associated with a similar condition of the skin. Treatment.—The ear should be syringed, the meatus thoroughly dried and the instillation of oil adopted. In acute cases pure almond oil may- be used, a few drops being warmed in a teaspoon and poured into the ear twice or three times daily. In chronic cases the fluid ung. hyd. nit. dil., as above prescribed (see p. 377) should be used, and this should be continued until the affection has entirely disappeared. In the cases associated with