THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. IO BOILS AND CARBUNCLES OF THE SCALP. Boils and carbuncles are not very common on the scalp, but they are sometimes met with about the back of the head or over the mastoid process, and, like other septic inflammations, they are very dangerous, more especially carbuncles, owing to the fact that they are apt to give rise to sinus phlebitis or meningitis. It is well to incise and scrape out the carbuncles freely and apply pure carbolic acid, and at the same time to attend to any constitutional affection, such as diabetes, that may be present (see Part II., p. 147). ULCERS OF THE SCALP. Ulcers of the scalp may occur in connection with acute inflammations followed by sloughing of portions of the scalp, in connection with sloughing after burns or lacerations, or they may be of specific origin, especially syphilitic or tuberculous. SIMPLE ULCERS.—When the ulcers are due to loss of tissue, as for example after burns or lacerations, the slowness in healing is due to the difficulty in contraction of the wound. When a large area of the soft tissues has been lost, the granulations which spring up fix the edges of the wound and very soon prevent the diminution of the sore by contraction. The result is that after a time healing ceases, or, if healing does occur, the scar is very thin and delicate and constantly breaks down. Treatment.—Bearing this fact in mind, the best practice is, as soon as all the sloughs have separated and the wound is granulating, to skin-graft the whole surface in the manner already described (see Part I., p. 50). So long as the operation is not delayed until the healing process has ceased owing to the failure of contraction, the grafts take well and a sound scar is left. If the grafting be not done until late in the course of the case, the grafts do not obtain such a good hold, owing to the fixation of the granulation tissue to the bone. SPECIFIC ULCERS.—The ulcerations of the scalp resulting from syphilis or tuberculosis are usually secondary to syphilitic or tuberculous disease of the skull and seldom begin in the scalp itself. When gummata commence in the scalp they usually readily yield to the employment of anti-syphilitic remedies (see Part L, p. 235). The most common form of tuberculous disease of the scalp is lupus, but it is very rare as a primary disease, and even where there are lupoid ulcers in neighbouring parts of the face, the disease does not tend to spread over the scalp so readily as in other directions. The treatment of tuberculous ulcers of the scalp, whether lupoid or the ordinary variety, is that recommended for tuberculous ulcers in general (see Part II., p. 152), and consists essentially in thoroughly scraping the ulcer and applying nitric acid or undiluted carbolic acid, or in excision and grafting.