CHAPTER XLI. SYPHILIS OF THE LARYNX. Manifestations of syphilis in the larynx are most frequent in men ; primary syphilis is practically unknown and the tertiary forms are more often seen than the secondary. Secondary syphilis usually manifests itself as an obstinate form of laryngeal congestion associated with a peculiarly hoarse voice; dusky, bluish- red congestion, especially if it be mottled in character and very chronic, always points to syphilis. Occasionally mucous patches or even condylomata may be seen associated with a similar condition of the pharynx; superficial ulcerations are not uncommon in the late secondary period. All these conditions tend to heal in a few weeks under treatment, and leave no marked deformity behind them. Treatment.—The treatment of secondary syphilis in the larynx is that of syphilis generally (see Part I., Chap. XII.). No special local treatment is required. Tertiary syphilis.—The earliest, but a somewhat uncommon, mani- festation of tertiary syphilis is obstinate superficial ulceratio?i, which has a great tendency to relapse. The vocal cords and the inter-arytenoid folds are most often affected. A gummatous tumour is very rarely seen. It is usually single, but there may be two or more; they are usually situated on the brim of the larynx, especially in the neighbourhood of the arytenoids. The form of tertiary syphilis most often seen is deep, destructive ulceration, which leads to great loss of tissue and subsequent distortion of the larynx. When the epiglottis is attacked it becomes greatly thickened and cedematous, and then is rapidly destroyed. In the earlier stages this produces severe dysphagia, which passes off as the swelling subsides and the ulcers heal, although the epiglottis may be entirely destroyed. If the arytenoids or the aryteno-epiglottic fold be affected, there is also dangerous dysphagia and occasionally dyspnoea. In the interior of the larynx the mucous membrane, the muscles, and the cartilages may all be affected; the latter may necrose and the whole interior of the larynx may be ulcerated and distorted beyond recognition.