INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES. 357 into the nose bringing it out at the anterior nares and retaining the upper end of it in the sinus either by means of a suture passing through the edges of the wound or by a slight collar around the upper edge of the tube. The external wound is entirely closed and the sinus can be washed out by syringing up the tube. This tube, however, can only be retained in position for from five to ten days because of the irritation it produces, and therefore this method of securing drainage is inefficient as it is given up before sufficient rime has been allowed for healing to take place. The externa] wound may indeed close, but after removal of the tube the opening into the nose rapidly fills up with granulations and commonly pus re-accumulates in the sinus. Many operators even advise that no tube should be used, but when the rapidity with which extensive cedema occurs in the nasal mucous membrane is remembered and the profusion and size of the granulations which form is taken into consideration, it is at once obvious that the largest opening that can be made will rapidly close. W ith this method then it is not at all remarkable that pus should form and accumulate in the sinus within a very few days. Such bad results have occurred in the experience of almost every surgeon. Sometimes the skin wound has given way and external drainage has had to be resorted to, but in a very considerable percentage of cases the presence of the pus under pressure in contact with the freshly opened diploe of the frontal bone has given rise to an acute spreading osteitis which has invariably ended fatally sooner or later. Any operation therefore not providing efficient measures for drainage must be unreservedly condemned. A simple large opening providing external drainage is only successful in a very small percentage of cases, as success depends upon the mucous membrane of the sinus returning to a healthy condition and on the in- fundibulum resuming its functions. This will rarely take place when secondary pathological changes have occurred and a permanent opening in this position is very disagreeable to the patient. To sum up the treatment of frontal sinus suppuration: (1) In all suspected cases intra-nasal treatment should be first tried, and free access to the lower end of the infundibulum should be obtained by removing the anterior end of the middle turbinate along with a.ny polypi present. (2) Nasal irrigation should then be carried out for a few weeks and cautious attempts should be made to wash out the sinus from the nose. (3) If no improvement results, the sinus should be opened externally and no attempt should ever be made to forcibly enter it from the nose. The frontal sinus when opened externally and found to contain pus should be obliterated (<i) in cases where the sinus is small, for then the operation is easy and the resulting deformity very slight ; (l>) when the posterior wall is carious or perforated; (c) when cerebral symptoms are present; and (</) when there is no infundibulum. In all other cases where pus is found a free opening should be made into the nose and drainage maintained until all suppuration has ceased.