CHRONIC INFLAMMATIONS. 313 membrane is much more fibrous than normal, and is infiltrated with masses of round cells. The bone itself shows no changes. The middle turbinate may appear shrunken, but is usually normal; on the other hand it is occasionally-hypertrophied or polypoid. The general health is often robust, but in most adults there will be found some degree of anaemia or dyspeptic troubles. In others there is evidence of inherited or acquired syphilis. Remote local troubles, such as ear and throat affections, are not uncommon. Treatment, (a) Local.—The first essential in the treatment of ozaina is to thoroughly cleanse the nose and to prevent the re-formation of the crusts. The nose should be syringed, and, to ensure the thoroughness of the cleansing, this is best performed, at any rate for the first few days, by the surgeon himself. It matters little what lotion is used for this purpose: perhaps the best is a solution of ordinary salt (a drachm to the pint), with the addition of one part in twenty of sanitas, or of about twenty grains of permanganate of potash to the pint. After the nose has been syringed, its interior should be illumined and every part carefully inspected. If crusts still remain, the washing must be repeated, or if there be only a few crusts they may be gently removed with a pair of forceps, or detached with a pledget of wool on a probe. If the wool be dipped in peroxide of hydrogen solution (1 vol. in 10) it will be found very effectual in loosening the crusts. It is well after thoroughly syringing the nose to gently rub the surface all over with pledgets of wool; this is slightly irritating to the mucous membrane and increases the secretion; also it is probable that the orifices of the glands are emptied by gently rubbing the membrane, and thus a more effectual cleansing is obtained. The nose must now be packed with a long strip of cyanide gauze, the gauze being first washed in sterilised water or salt solution. The packing should be left in position for from eight to twelve hours, when it may be removed by the patient, the nose again syringed and the packing re- applied. It is essential that the surgeon himself should carry out or supervise this treatment until the patient or an attendant has learnt to carry it on satisfactorily. The mouth-breathing necessitated by this treatment is at first often very unpleasant, especially at night, and may prevent the pati#it sleeping ; he will soon however tolerate it, and will then gladly persist in the treatment on account of the great relief which it affords. Many patients experience great difficulty in thoroughly packing the nose, but, providing that they will insert enough gauze to entirely obstruct the nostril and prevent the entrance of air, the treatment will be effectual, although it is better to thoroughly fill the nose. In most cases there will be sufficient secretion to prevent the gauze from becoming adherent ; but should there be any difficulty in removing it, or should the removal produce bleeding, the nose may be sprayed with oil before the packing is