CHRONIC INFLAMMATIONS. 309 Symptoms.—The patient usually complains of a considerable amount of nasal irritation, stiffness of the nose, pricking pains and nasal obstruction. These are commonly associated with laryngeal and pharyngeal affections, such as a constant tickling cough, hoarseness, and a feeling of constriction or of a lump in the throat. The crusts in the nose are always small and are never the large thick masses seen in ozsena. Treatment.—The treatment must be both constitutional and local. (a) General.—If the rhinitis be associated with a plethoric condition, the patient's diet and general habits must be carefully regulated. The amount of alcohol consumed must be strictly limited, beer and heavy wines being entirely interdicted. Smoking also should be indulged in but moderately, cigarettes being especially harmful. The diet should consist of light easily digestible meats and fruits. In most cases the medicinal treatment should be commenced with a daily morning glass of one of the aperient waters, such as Hunyadi Janos, Carlsbad, or Apenta; or if constipation be present, the Mist. Alba1 in doses of 5j-5ij taken in a tumbler of warm water may be substituted. Subse- quently a rhubarb and soda mixture may be prescribed. In gouty subjects appropriate diet and medicines must be ordered.2 In the ansemic subject constitutional treatment is also of the greatest importance. In the first place the diet should be plentiful, light, and nutritious. Plenty of fresh air, a change to the sea-side if possible, with suitable outdoor exercise should always be ordered. Any digestive dis- turbance must be carefully enquired into and appropriate remedies prescribed. In most cases constipation is present, and a pill should be given daily after dinner or on retiring at night. Pil. Aloes et Ferri, or Pil. Aloes et Myrrh in 5 gr. doses may be tried, or the following prescription is often especially useful : Ferri redacti, - - gr. ii. Aloini, gr. J. Ext. nucis. vom., gr. \. Ext. belladonna;, gr.. §. After the digestive functions have been attended to, iron should be prescribed in full doses : Blaud's pill in xv.-xx. grain doses three to four times a day after meals, Easton's syrup, or the mixture of perchloride of iron recommended on p. 296 may be used. 'The Mist. Alba contains: Magnes. sulphatis 5j> magnes. carbonatis. gr. xx., to the ounce of peppermint water. 2The following prescription may be used: Sodii salicyl., gr. x. Salicini, gr. v. Potass, bicarb., - - - - - - - gr. x. Spirit, chloroformi, - m. xx. Inf. calumbie, ad 5 ss One tablespoonful three times a day befoie meals.