THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. the tumour very rapidly, cutting quite wide of its limits. When this is done, the main vessels can be immediately controlled by pressure until they are picked up and tied. This is a much better plan than wasting valuable time in attempting to secure the vessels as the operation proceeds. In applying electrolysis for nsevus of the scalp care must be taken not to use too strong a current (20-40 milliamperes), especially when the tumour is situated in the neighbourhood of the fontanelles. Indeed, unless the naevus be growing rapidly, it is well to wait until closure of the fontanelle has taken place before commencing treatment. If too strong a current be employed, or if it be increased too rapidly, severe and even fatal shock may result. When the electrolysis is finished, the current must be gradually reduced to zero and must not be shut off at once. CIRSOID ANEURYSM.—The scalp is one of the favourite seats of the curious condition known as cirsoid aneurysm, which most usually affects the auriculotemporal region. In cirsoid aneurysm there is a varicose condition of the arteries which become elongated as well as dilated and tortuous. The capillaries are also dilated and the accompanying veins may likewise be involved. The result is the formation of a blood tumour with tortuous vessels in its neighbourhood. The cause of this condition is practically unknown. Sometimes there is a history of injury, in other cases the condition apparently arises spontaneously. Treatment.—-The treatment of these cases is a matter of considerable difficulty, and a great variety of methods have been employed. The best of all is of course extirpation, whenever the situation or the size of the tumour permits of its employment. In carrying out the extirpation of the tumour the main trunks of the arteries feeding it should be first exposed and ligatured. In the ordinary situation, the trunk of the tem- poral artery must be exposed as it passes over the root of the zygoma, and after it has been tied, the skin may be dissected off the tumour, removing of course any redundant portion over the most prominent part; any outlying large vessels are clamped, and the mass of dilated vessels is then removed. The only limit to the applicability of excision is the extent of the tumour. When this is very large and much skin has to be taken away, the space may be filled up by skin-grafts. In cases which are not suit- able for excision, various other methods of treatment have been recommended, such as ligature of the main trunk of the external or the common carotid artery, the application of caustics, the use of electrolysis, the injection of coagulating materials and so forth, but these as a rule are more or less ineffectual. OTHER ANEURYSMS.—True aneurysms of the arteries of the scalp are rare, and if they occur they can generally be attacked by the direct operation (see Part II., p. 310). False aneurysms, the result of injury,