CHRONIC INFLAMMATIONS. 303 in the first instance should be carried out exactly on the lines already prescribed for chronic rhinitis (see p. 300). The cautery, electric or chemical, is especially to be recommended, and may be applied as already described (see p. 301). If this fails, or if the nose be very obstructed, either because it is congenitally narrow or because the hypertrophy is excessive, some more radical means must be adopted to clear the nasal fossa. In doing this it must be borne in mind that in some cases hypertrophy of the inferior turbinate may be compensatory: that is, that the size of the inferior turbinate should bear a certain relation to the size ■of the nasal fossa. By the aid of a speculum it should be possible to see into the inferior meatus and alongside the septum for a third or more of the inferior meatus; but in the normal nose the post-nasal space should not be clearly seen. Thus, in a wide nose, a very large or even an hypertrophied inferior turbinate may be present, and it would, nevertheless, be unwise to attempt to remove or to reduce it. On the other hand, in a narrow nose a very slight hypertrophy may require to be freely removed in order to establish free nasal respiration. Operation.—In the majority of these cases removal with a cold tvire snare is to be preferred. The part to be removed having been thoroughly cocainised (see p. 284), the loop of the snare is passed around it, and the wire tightened quickly so as to obtain a firm hold on it. Subsequently it is better to tighten the wire as slowly as possible in order that the vessels may be obliterated as they are divided and the risk of haemorrhage lessened. The best snare for this purpose is shown in Fig. no. It has the great advantage that it can be tightened up very quickly with one hand, whilst a view can be obtained of the parts to be enclosed; at the same time the snare will carry a thick wire and is strong enough to stand a great strain, for it must be remembered that these growths are frequently very tough. It may be necessary to snare off several pieces, and the operation should be repeated until all redundant growth has been removed and the inferior meatus allows of the free passage of air. After-treatment.—The nOse should be cleansed after the first 24 hours with a cold solution of boracic acid or an alkaline lotion (see p. 282), which Fig. iio.—Lack's Snare.