THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. 2 any material point from bruises elsewhere, nor is its treatment different from that of an ordinary bruise. Treatment.—In the first instance, the application of an evaporating lotion, such as the lotio plumbi, will usually suffice. When, however, the effusion of blood is more extensive, an icebag may be desirable in order to check further haemorrhage. As a rule it is unnecessary to shave the head or even to cut the hair, unless there happens to be some abrasion of the surface in -addition to the contusion; this will then bring the case into the category of a scalp wound. These subcutaneous haematomata practically always disappear in the course of a few days without any trouble. (b) THE SUBAPONEUROTIC HEMATOMA.—This is an important form. In some cases the blood effused is large in amount, for owing to its situation, it may spread freely beneath the muscle over a large area, and such an amount may be poured out as to be difficult of subsequent absorption. This form of hematoma is also important because in it,—though not to the same extent as in the next variety,—a mistaken diagnosis is not uncommon, in that a depressed fracture may be suspected. After the blood is effused, the margin of the hsematoma usually becomes hard from the presence of the coagulum in the tissues, while the centre may remain soft and fluctuating. When the collection of fluid in the centre is small, the finger pressed over it seems to pass into a depression in the bone. As a matter of fact, however, no depres- sion exists, as the finger first passes over the raised edge of the hsematoma and thus, when the bone is felt through the central collection of fluid, the idea of a depressed fracture is imparted. Under such circumstances a haematoma proper, or a blood-cyst may form and prove very slow in absorption; in fact, in some cases the skin over it gradually gets thinned and gives way, and its contents may discharge without any suppuration having occurred. In other cases again, especially when there has been an abrasion of the skin, suppuration may take place. Treatment.—The treatment of these cases consists i. in limiting the effusion of blood; 2. in promoting rapid absorption of the blood already effused; and 3. in taking measures to prevent infection of the collection of blood and consequent suppuration in the haematoma. 1. To limit the effusion.—If the case be seen directly after the accident, it is well to apply an icebag or an ice-cap1 at once (see Fig. 1); unless there be a wound it is not necessary to shave the head. The patient must be confined to bed, or at any rate to the horizontal position. The cold should be continued until there is no further increase in the size of the tumour; generally it will be required for about 24 1 An ice-cap can easily be improvised, if there he enough indiarubber tubing available, by coiling the tubing around the head over some form of night-cap to which the coils are stitched to keep them in position.