.METHODS OF EXAMINATION AND TREATMENT. 419 meal. In irritable patients the mirror should never be held in place for more than five or ten seconds, especially in untrained patients. It is much more satisfactory to introduce the mirror a greater number of times. The laryngeal image.—The laryngeal image is reversed, just as is that in an ordinary mirror. The first point to be observed is the general appearance and colour of the mucous membrane for evidences of inflam- matory action, and it is necessary to remember that cocaine produces anaemia, and similarly congestion may be due to previous struggling or retching. The general contour of the parts must next be noted, and especially the existence of swellings or small gaps and irregularities from loss of tissue. Finally, the movements of the vocal cords, both in phonation and respiration, must be observed. The vocal cords should approximate perfectly in the middle line during phonation, abduct equally and readily in inspiration, and the movements on the two sides should be symmetrical. With regard to this latter point, it must be borne in mind that the epiglottis is frequently twisted to one side, and that therefore it is not a safe guide to the median line of the larynx. A useful view may often be obtained of the epiglottis and in favourable circumstances of the arytenoids or even of the interior of the larynx by means of a tongue depressor. The surgeon stands in front of the patient who is seated with the head thrown well back, and introduces a strong tongue-depressor well over the back of the tongue, pressing that organ forwards so as to straighten the oro-laryngeal cavity and allow a direct view into the larynx. To effect this, much force is usually required, and it is impossible to see more than the upper parts of the larynx even in favourable circumstances. Laryngoscopy in children.—In most children of three years of age and upwards a view of the larynx may be obtained by the ordinary methods, although some training is often necessary before this is accom- plished. The younger the child the longer and the more patient the training must be, but not only is it possible in almost every case to obtain a view, but the child can be taught to tolerate instrumental interference. In infants some other method must be tried and the following is the most generally effective. The child is held in front of the surgeon wrapped up in a blanket which restrains its arms, and the head is steadied by an assistant who may also hold the mouth open with a gag if necessary. A tongue-depressor with a curved end (see Fig. 103) is then introduced over the base of the tongue and hooked round the hyoid bone. The base of the tongue is depressed and at the same time pulled forward; if this be done very gently it frequently excites no resistance. A small laryngeal mirror is now introduced in the ordinary way and a view of the larynx can usually be obtained. It is better to proceed very gently and not to alarm and excite resistance on the part of the infant, so as to examine the larynx under normal respiration ; if the child resists, the mirror should be held steadily in position until he is forced to take a breath, when a momentary