358 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. MUCOCELE OR CYSTIC DISEASE OF THE ACCESSORY SINUSES. Causation.—The accessory sinuses are lined by a secreting mucous- membrane, and if from any cause the opening of the cavity becomes- obstructed, as from pressure or catarrh, the secretion naturally accumulates- in the sinus and in time distends its walls. The affection is by far most common in the ethmoidal region. As already described (see Fig. 92) there is a small cell normally existing in the anterior end of the middle turbinate, which has a tiny opening near its apex. From the small size of this opening and the great liability of this region to become involved in any nasal catarrh, obstruction frequently results and the small cell becomes transformed into a cyst which may enlarge until it occludes- the nose. When the antrum is similarly affected the inner wall com- monly gives way and produces obstruction of the nostril on the affected side while the anterior wall bulges into the cheek. If the lateral ethmoidal cells are affected, there is a marked widening of the base of the bridge of the nose and the contents of the orbits are displaced outwards. The frontal sinuses usually yield at the inner portion of their inferior wall,, pressing the eyes outwards and downwards and occasionally giving rise to a large boss on the forehead. The pressure may be so great, especially if the disease occur in children, that the sutures of the bones may be opened up and the lachrymal bone be displaced downwards and a large fluctuating swelling present itself at the inner angle of the orbit. The contents of the cavities vary from a clear, watery, to a more or less thick mucoid secretion. Treatment.—In the case of the antrum the best plan is to, puncture the cavity from the inferior meatus with a large trochar, such as Krause's (see Fig. 123). The opening thus made will probably be permanent and sufficiently large to effectually drain the cavity. In the case of the ethmoidal cells, the affected cell usually bulges into the nose so as to resemble a polypus. The best plan is to pass a snare round it and to remove as much of its walls as possible. Should the cyst so completely fill the nose that this is impossible, a portion of its floor may be removed by cutting forceps and the walls subsequently cut away. In the case of the frontal sinus the treatment depends upon the size of the cavity. If it be small, it is better to open it freely, to scrape away the entire mucous membrane and to pack it. The packing is continued until the cavity is entirely obliterated by granulation tissue. If the cavity be extremely large, and in some of these cases it may have a capacity of half an ounce, it is better to endeavour to re-establish communication with the nose. The cavity is opened in a similar way as for chronic suppuration, a large communication with the nose is made with a burr or a chisel, and a large drainage tube inserted. The mucous membrane of the cavity is left untouched as far as possible. The tube or plug must be worn for many months, until it seems certain that the new formed infundibulum will not contract.