HYDROCEPHALUS. 79 HYDROCEPHALUS. This is the term applied to abnormal collections of fluid within the cranial cavity accompanied by marked distension of the head. When the fluid is present in the ventricles of the brain the condition is known as hydrocephalus internus, when it is outside the brain, as hydrocephalus extemus ; the latter condition is probably very rare. Hydrocephalus may be congenital or it may be developed during the early years of life. A good deal of discussion is still going on as to its pathology. The congenital cases are by some ascribed simply to imperfect development of the brain, and by others to meningitis occurring during intra-uterine life. It is probable that in some cases the first of these causes is present, and in others the second. Some writers have also attributed the occurrence of hydrocephalus internus to blocking of the foramen of Majendie, and the consequent retention of cerebro-spinal fluid in the lateral ventricles, but in many cases this foramen has been found not only patent but enlarged, so that this explanation does not apply universally. Pathology.—The most constant pathological condition found in con- nection with hydrocephalus is one of meningitis, and it is probable that this is the cause in the great majority, both of the congenital and of the acquired cases. The meningeal inflammation is usually dependent either on syphilis or on non-tuberculous posterior basic meningitis. Recovery from the attack of meningitis is followed by the formation of adhesions which block the passage of the cerebro-spinal fluid at the foramen of Majendie, or above or below it, and thus is followed by distention of the lateral ventricles. It has been shown by various investigators, more especially by Dr. Leonard Hill, that the amount of cerebro-spinal fluid is regulated by absorption and exudation from the veins or the lymphatics of the membranes of the brain, more especially towards the base, and if any cause interferes with this normal regulation of the cerebro-spinal fluid, the result on the brain will be very serious. The occurrence of a meningitis interferes with this regulation, so that cerebro-spinal fluid accumulates in the ventricles and gives rise to the condition known as hydrocephalus. These forms of meningitis are more especially present around the base of the brain in the neighbourhood of the fourth ventricle, and thus there is an obstacle to the exit of fluid from the ventricles and to its proper absorption. Symptoms.—The result of the retention of the fluid in the ventricles is an expansion of the cerebral substance which is pressed against the unyielding cranium; atrophy of the brain will gradually occur in conse- quence. When, however, the affection commences in infancy, the skull expands readily, and thus no marked symptoms of cerebral pressure arise. In older children, however, in whom the skull is rigid, all the symptoms of cerebral pressure follow the accumulation of fluid in the ventricles. The amount of fluid which may collect in the ventricles and in the