AFFECTIONS OF THE SKULL. 27 of the lesions already referred to and more especially on account of the septic complications; their gravity is still further increased because the fractures generally occur in the neighbourhood of important parts of the brain, and the injured parts are more or less inaccessible. The fractures, as has been already said, are not necessarily limited to a single fossa of the skull. At the same time it is usual to divide them into fractures of the anterior, middle or posterior fossa, according to the region in which the greatest damage has occurred. * The line of fracture most frequently runs through the middle fossa, breaking the petrous bone at its weakest part, that is to say in the neighbourhood of the middle ear. From this point the fissure usually runs forwards and inwards across the sphenoid. In fractures of the anterior fossa the roof of the orbit is generally broken; the line of fracture may run backwards into the middle fossa. In other cases the fracture is chiefly in the posterior fossa, the fissure running downwards behind the mastoid process. The situation of a fracture at the base of the skull depends to a great extent on the position of the original injury. Much discussion has arisen as to the way in which these fractures are caused. They usually follow falls upon the vertex or blows upon the side of the head. The original view was that in falls upon the vertex the fracture of the base occurred by transmission of the violence through the arches of the skull towards the base, or "fracture by contre-coup." It was however noticed that the fissures were not limited to the base, but extended up towards the vertex, and another view was suggested, viz., that fractures of the base were really direct con- tinuations from fractures of the vault and that, when the patient fell upon the vertex, a fissure was produced which radiated downwards extensively through the base. While it is probable that fracture is thus produced in a certain number of cases, it does not satisfactorily account for the majority, and of late the elasticity of the skull has been looked on as the chief factor in" its production. When the patient falls upon the top of the head, the elasticity of the skull permits a certain diminution in the vertical diameter of the head, the result being that the bone in the lateral areas near the base is bulged outwards. If the bulging be carried too far, fracture occurs at this point and fissures run thence downwards towards the base and also to a lesser extent upwards on to the vault. Thus these fractures start, not from the point of impact, but from the point of greatest bending and then run upwards and downwards. The condition is very similar to that in the ribs; when an antero-posterior force is applied to the chest, the ribs are bent until ultimately they break, and the fracture generally occurs about the angle. The complications of fracture of the base are the same as those which accompany fracture of the vault and have been already enumerated (see p. 16). The two chief complications are compression of the brain and, more especially, septic complications owing to the communication of the fissure with the exterior.