399 AFFECTIONS OF THE MIDDLE EAR. be found, the complete post-aural operation, carried out with extreme caution owing to the exposure of the facial nerve, should be adopted (see p. 404). Of suppuration in the antrum.—When, in spite of the above treatment, a considerable amount of discharge still comes from the ear, it is obvious that it must come from the antrum or mastoid cells; it may be possible to observe the actual outflow of pus into the tympanum from the antrum. In these circumstances the mastoid antrum, and the cells also, if involved, require to be opened and dealt with in the manner to be presently described (see p. 404). Sequelae of suppuration.—As the result of chronic suppuration in the ear, complete recovery and restoration of function is usually impossible. In most cases either a permanent perforation of the drum or more or less exten- sive adhesion between the ossicles or the membrane and the inner wall of the tympanum, or a combination of these conditions, will remain. Permanent perforation of the membrane.—There may be a small per- foration or more or less complete destruction of the drum. In such con- ditions any catarrh of the ear leads to a certain amount of serous discharge which drains into the external meatus. Unless the catarrh results from an acute septic infection or the discharge becomes contaminated it will remain serous; should infection occur, acute suppurative otitis follows. Again, if water be allowed to enter the ear, as in bathing, it is apt to penetrate into the tympanum and to set up an acute inflammation. Treatment.—When simple catarrh is present the meatus should be gently syringed out with a mild antiseptic such as boracic acid, dried, a little powder insufflated, and a pledget of wool worn in the ear. Should the affection develop into suppurative otitis, it must be treated on the lines already given for that disease. Repeatedly recurring attacks should always direct attention to the post-nasal space and upper air- passages generally, and any morbid condition in this region should be remedied. Patients with perforation should be warned against the dangers of bathing, and if they persist in it should be warned not to put the head under water, and the affected ear should always be previously plugged with cotton-wool. In a few cases and especially in those in which a large perforation is present, through which the stapes is exposed, considerable benefit may be obtained by the use of the artificial drum. Artificial drums.—Artificial drums should only be used when the dis- charge has completely ceased or is reduced to a little serum. The best form is a simple cone of cotton-wool, which can easily be rolled up with the fingers (see Fig. 135). This should be moistened with a little glycerine before applying it. The large end of the cone should be placed in contact with the stapes, or if this be absent, in the position of the fenestra ovalis. The drum not only serves as a protection to the delicate lining membrane of the tympanum but in many cases noticeably improves the hearing. It should be worn at first not more than two hours at a time, but if it does