436 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LARYNX. in the mirror, and further information may sometimes be obtained by means of a tongue-depressor (see p. 419) or by the finger passed into the upper aperture of the larynx. Prognosis.—As regards life.—In adults there is very slight danger, but rare cases of large growths completely filling the larynx may require tracheotomy. In children the disease is much more serious, as dyspnoea is common and may occur suddenly, necessitating urgent tracheotomy. This is always a serious matter in a young child especially as the tube may have to be worn a long time. As regards the voice.—A good voice may usually be gained if intra- laryngeal removal be possible and especially when the growth is single; the chances become less in proportion to the number of the growths and their liability to recur. In children complete intra-laryngeal removal is more difficult and the commonest tumours, the papillomata, are usually multiple and recur rapidly and persistently; in time however this tendency to recur usually wears itself out and with care and patience a good result is usually possible. Treatment.—Papillomata.—In adtdts.—The best method of treatment wherever practicable is undoubtedly intra-laryngeal removal under cocaine anaesthesia. The operation being done under good illumination carefully and quietly, there is no risk of injuring the laryngeal structures or of causing severe laryngeal spasm. Before operating it is usually necessary to give the patient a short course of preliminary treatment. Any disease of the upper air passages or pharynx, such as enlarged tonsils, elongated uvula, etc., should be attended to as it increases the difficulty of the manipula- tions. The larynx should be carefully anaesthetised with cocaine and suprarenal extract in the way already described (see p. 420). The probe should be repeatedly passed into the larynx in order to accustom the patient to its presence and this should be repeated on one or two occasions before the removal is attempted. On the first occasion also very little cocaine should be used, but the quantity may gradually be increased as the patient becomes more tolerant. To remove the growths, two or three pairs of laryngeal forceps, such as Mackenzie's cutting forceps, are required; these may be made with a rounded or an obtuse angle (see Fig. 142) in place of the right angle, as pressure on the epiglottis can be tolerated under cocaine and that structure can thus be kept back out of the way. The forceps are warmed and introduced into the larynx closed; the blades being opened, a piece of growth is grasped and pulled away, care being taken to see that the laryngeal mucous membrane is not caught up. Papillomata being soft and friable are usually removed without any trouble; their evulsion excites a certain amount of haemorrhage, but the operation can be con- tinued as long as the surgeon can obtain a view of the larynx and the anaesthesia persists. If multiple growths be present, several sittings may be necessary.