64 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. tion may be completed for the time being in the manner mentioned in the preceding paragraph ; should further symptoms arise, or should the febrile condition continue for more than 48 hours, the procedure mentioned in the following paragraph must be adopted. When the clot is breaking down, the patient is in imminent danger of death from pyaemia. In some cases, it is true, the wall of the vein may have sloughed, so that the contents simply form part of a sub-dural abscess, but when this is so there are not the symptoms characteristic of a breaking-down thrombus; washing out the pus, with free exposure and drainage of the sub-dural space, will generally suffice for a cure in these cases. When, however, the vein is intact, but a puncture or small incision into it shows that it contains breaking-down clot, it is best, before dealing further with the local condition, to cut off all communication between the sinus and the general circulation. The best thing is to cover up the wound and disinfect the hands, and then, using fresh instruments, to expose the internal jugular vein in the neck and to ligature and divide it there. Ligature of the internal jugular vein.—The incision for exposure of the internal jugular vein is the same as that for ligature of the common carotid artery above the omo-hyoid (see Part II., p. 320). The most convenient place to ligature it is opposite the bifurcation of the carotid; this point is easy of access and is almost always well below the limits of the thrombus. It is most essential that the ligature should be applied to a patent portion of the vein. The circulation through the vessel is interrupted by means of a double ligature passed round it and tied in two places; the vein is then divided between them. After the vein has been tied, the wound behind the ear is uncovered, the lateral sinus is laid freely open and the clot washed out. When the latter extends down beyond the foramen lacerum medium, it is well to open up the upper part of the ligatured jugular vein and to wash out all clot with a stream of warm (1 in 2000) sublimate solution. Should the mastoid vein be thrombosed, the opening in the bone should be enlarged and the thrombus scraped out with a small spoon. Any clot extending backwards along the lateral sinus should also be removed by scraping and flushing until the entire thrombus has been cleared out, in fact until free bleed- ing occurs from the sinus. In order to lay the whole infected area freely open it may be necessary to continue the removal of bone for some considerable distance backwards. The bleeding is easily arrested by pres- sure with strips of gauze. The cavity should next be packed with gauze, and as a rule nothing further need be done. It is best to wait and see whether the symptoms are relieved by what has been done, or whether further symptoms indica- ting a lepto-meningitis or cerebral abscess appear in the course of 48 hours. Should no such symptoms arise, the packing is' removed daily until granu- lation is complete, when the skin flaps may be brought together, a drainage tube being substituted for the packing; the antral cavity may be grafted