AFFECTIONS OF EXTERNAL AUDITORY MEATUS. suppuration of the middle ear, which are more common in children, the ears, must be frequently syringed and kept free from discharge. They should then be dried, and a little boracic ointment applied to the affected parts ; subsequently boracic powder should be blown in. OTOMYCOSIS.—This is a somewhat rare affection, and is due to the presence of a fungus which gives rise to more or less acute inflammation of the external ear. The meatus is usually filled with flakes of epithelium, looking like damp blotting-paper, in which black spots can be seen. Under the microscope amongst this epithelium may be seen a network of mycelium with numerous hyphae and fructifications. The most common fungus is. aspergillus niger, the fructifications of which are large and black. Asper- gillus fumigatus and aspergillus fiavus are both rare; the fructifications are smaller than those of niger; in the one they are described as sooty and in the other they are yellow. Treatment.—All that is necessary is to cleanse the meatus thoroughly by frequent syringing with weak antiseptic solutions, inflammation if present being treated on the lines already indicated (see p. 378). In many cases it is necessary to soften or detach the epithelium by means of oily instillations. Glycerine with carbolic acid (1-20), or nitrate of mercury ointment diluted with oil (see p. 377) may be used. When the inflammation has subsided,, the ear is filled up with rectified spirit, which should be retained for about ten minutes. This may be repeated daily for a short time until the meatus- is quite healthy. TUMOURS OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITORY MEATUS.—These are all rare, and therefore may be briefly dealt with. The most important of the benign growths are the exostoses, papilloma, fibroma, angeioma, and cysts. Polypi and granulations are best considered in connection with suppuration in the ear. The benign growths, with the exception of exostoses, present nothing peculiar in the treatment, and should be dealt with on ordinary surgical principles. Exostosis.—Exostoses are met with in two distinct varieties : 1. A singlepedwiculated tumour, which usually springs from the outer edge of the bony meatus, and especially from the upper or posterior wall. It may be large enough to completely occlude the meatus and to produce deafness, but rarely causes pain or any other symptom. In general appearance the growth resembles a polypus, but it is hard to the probe, pale in colour and not very sensitive. Treatment.—The removal of the tumour is extremely simple, and there- fore should always be advised ; it is especially urgent if suppuration be present. A general anaesthetic is required, and the external meatus should be cleansed by syringing. Where the growth does not completely fill the meatus it may be removed per vias naturales. A dental elevator or periosteum detacher may be pushed down the meatus past the growth, when it can be easily broken off and extracted. In the majority of cases however, and especially if the tumour be large, it is better to make an incision over the mastoid process-