THE PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE FACE. 147 base near the defect and somewhat larger than is necessary to cover in the latter, is dissected up with as much fat as can be taken without damaging the branches of the facial nerve. This flap is best shaped by taking a pattern of the opening, laying it on the skin and making an incision a quarter of an inch outside it all round so as to allow for shrinking. The flap is turned forwards without twisting the pedicle, so that the skin surface looks into the mouth; it is stitched in position with interrupted sutures through the buccal mucous membrane. The superficial flap may be raised at the same time or two or three weeks later. It is better to cut this flap immediately because it gives an extra broad surface for the union of the deep one, for, when the latter has become vascularly connected with the margins of the opening, its pedicle must be cut ABC Fig. 48.—Plastic Operation on Mouth when there is no Anchylosis of the Jaws. In A the edges of the defect have been pared, and the flap over the inasseter is marked out. In B this flap has been reflected and sutured into the gap with its cutaneous surface inwards to the buccal cavity. In C the flap, after it has united to the margins of the gap, is divided along the line aa, and a small part of its base turned back into place. The remaining raw surface can be covered by skin-grafts, or by undermining the edges. The thick black line passing below the chin is the outline of the skin-flap that is raised and brought over the raw surface of the flap that has been sutured into the gap. through and stitched in position, so that it is important that the union at the edges of the flap should be reinforced by union of its outer surface with the skin-flap. Where this is the case, the pedicle can be divided sooner than would otherwise be safe and with less risk of sloughing. The exact method of providing the superficial flap will depend on the situation and shape of the gap, but in many cases it may be made by carrying a curved incision from the front and lower edge of the opening downwards and then backwards under the jaw, raising a flap which can be applied with its raw surface to that of the deeper one. The raw surface left after turning forward the deep flap may be partly closed by stitches after undermining, and partly by skin grafts. A small portion of its anterior end will be subsequently covered when the base of the flap is divided; a portion of the pedicle can