THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. 28 The diagnosis can generally be made from a study of the various phenomena produced. In fractures of the anterior fossa, blood accumulates in the fat and connective tissue of the orbit and comes forward beneath the conjunctiva, usually showing first over its lower segment. There is almost always epistaxis, from fracture of the cribriform plate, and later on there is an escape of cerebro-spinal fluid from the nose. There is also frequently some injury to one of the ocular nerves as it emerges from the skull. In fractures of the middle fossa, haemorrhage occurs from the ear, provided that the membrana tympani be ruptured. Blood may also run down the Eustachian tube into the pharynx and may appear in the nose. The amount of blood thus lost may be considerable. It must, however, never be forgotten that an uncomplicated injury to the tympanic membrane may produce bleeding which may simulate that due to a fracture of the base; in the former case, however, the haemorrhage is usually slight and transitory. Cerebro-spinal fluid also escapes freely from the ear, sometimes in large quantities; in the latter case there can be very little doubt about the diagnosis. The amount of cerebro-spinal fluid lost is larger in fractures of the middle fossa than in the others. When the quantity of fluid is very small it may be simply serum, or possibly fluid from the labyrinth; it may be very difficult to collect sufficient to test. The escape of brain matter from the ear may also occur in very bad fractures and in a few instances emphysema of the skin over the mastoid process has been noticed. In fractures through the posterior fossa, extensive ecchymosis may occur about the mastoid process and in the neck. When the blood has escaped among the deeper cervical muscles, the ecchymosis may not show itself for several days. Treatment.—There are three main points in the treatment of cases of fracture of the base of the skull. (i) To arrest the haemorrhage; (2) to diminish the inflammatory reaction; and (3) to avoid sepsis. Arrest of haemorrhage and abatement of reaction.—With the view of attaining the first two objects, the patient should be placed in bed with the head slightly raised and fixed between sandbags, and a Leiter's coil (see Fig. 1) should be applied to the head,1 the water being about 400 F. The room should be darkened and free from noise and the patient kept absolutely quiet. It is well to administer a purge immediately; five grains of calomel placed on the back of the tongue is readily swallowed and will usually produce a satisfactory action. When this does not suffice, one or two drops of croton oil on a piece of sugar or bread may be administered. The patient, who is generally in a state of shock when first seen, should be covered with warm blankets, and hot bottles should be applied to his feet and sides. The use of stimulants should be avoided, as they tend to increase the haemorrhage. At the same time subcutaneous injections of strychnine (gr. ^th) are of value if the patient be very much collapsed. In 'The head need not be shaved; if the hair be very thick it should be cut short.