METHODS OF EXAMINATION AND TREATMENT. 371 of the catheter. Before introducing the catheter, the nasal passages should be examined in order to ascertain the presence and position of any obstruc- tion. If the patient be sensitive and the passages narrow, a little cocaine should be sprayed into the nose. It aids the introduction of the catheter not only by producing anaesthesia but by diminishing the swelling of the erectile tissue of the inferior meatus. The patient is seated with his head resting against the back of the chair, and the surgeon stands on the right side of and facing him. The catheter is then passed along the inferior meatus, taking great care to keep its tip in contact with the floor of the nose. The greatest, gentleness must be exercised and the catheter allowed to move in any direction so as to find its own way. As soon as its tip touches the posterior wall of the naso-pharynx, the anterior end of the instrument is slightly raised, and is withdrawn for about half to three-quarters of an inch until the beak is felt to be in contact with the posterior edge of the hard palate. The catheter is then rotated through a quarter of a circle until the beak points directly outwards. It is then pushed a little onwards and is usually felt to slip easily into the opening of the Eustachian tube. When in position, the catheter does not move when the patient swallows or speaks, and it seems to be somewhat fixed if an attempt be made to rotate or push it onward. If care be not taken to keep the tip of the catheter in contact with the floor of the nose, the instrument is apt to pass into the middle meatus, and when it reaches the post-nasal space it will be found impossible to rotate it. The above manipulation is the best for those who have acquired no special skill in this work. An experienced surgeon can with practice simply pass the catheter straight back along the inferior meatus, and directly he feels it drop over the posterior margin of the hard palate, rotate it directly into the opening of the tube. When the catheter is in position, the nozzle of the air-bag is connected with it and held in position by the forefinger and thumb. The sound of air entering the tympanum is at once recognised through the otoscope, as seeming to be quite close to the surgeon's ear. If the Eustachian tube be patent, the air impinges on the drum with a dull sound; if the tube be obstructed, the sound has a more or less whistling character. The presence Of fluid in the tube or middle ear is recognised by bubbling and cracking sounds. When the drum is perforated or absent, the air seems almost to be blowing directly into the surgeon's ear and this is accompanied in the case of small perforations by a loud whistling noise. Difficulties in passing the catheter.—When any difficulty is experienced in introducing the catheter into the Eustachian orifice after passing it into the post-nasal space, the instrument should be rotated a quarter of a circle inwards and then withdrawn so that it may come into contact with the posterior edge of the septum nasi. It must then of course be rotated a half circle outwards to bring it opposite the Eustachian tube. In other cases various expedients may be tried, such as altering the curve of the instrument,