INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES. 351 might lead to deformity. The problems presented are therefore extremely difficult and the treatment of chronic suppuration in the frontal sinus is. the subject of great controversy, especially with regard to the advisability of intra-nasal treatment. Intra-nasal treatment.—This much however must be generally admitted, that in all cases in which suppuration in the frontal sinus is suspected, and in which no urgent symptoms are present (see p. 353) antral suppu- ration should be eliminated, and intra-nasal treatment should be adopted to the extent of removing the anterior end of the middle turbinate and clearing away all polypi, oedema or swelling in the neighbourhood of the infundibulum and in most cases of opening up the anterior ethmoidal cells; for in nearly every case of frontal sinus suppuration these cells will be found involved. Moreover they may be the sole source of the discharge, for in the majority of cases there is no certainty that the frontal sinus is. the source of the pus until it has been laid open. These means alone may effect a cure and in any case they aid the success of subsequent operation. This treatment having been carried out and free access having been obtained to the infundibular region, the probability is that if pus still continues to come down in any quantity it really comes from the frontal sinus. Cautious attempts may now be made to pass a suitable cannula, into the sinus, and, if successful, intra-nasal irrigation may be practised. A study of the anatomical relations of the parts (see p. 266) will readily demonstrate the great difficulty there is in passing a probe through the nose into the normal frontal sinus. It is only possible to do so in about 25 per cent, of cases and, what is more to the point, there are no means- of knowing that the probe is actually in the sinus, even when it apparently passes far up along the infindibulum. The chief obstructions to the entrance of the probe arises from the prominence of the anterior end of the middle turbinate which entirely conceals the infundibular region from view, from the formation of the uncinate process, from the prominent bulla ethmoidalis,. from the presence of an abnormal hypertrophy, and in many cases from the long and tortuous course of the infundibular canal. Also in many cases the probe will enter the' ostium of one or other of the anterior ethmoidal cells. But in cases of frontal sinus suppuration the fronto- ethmoidal cells are often broken down and if in addition the anterior end of the middle turbinate be removed and the approach to the infundibular region be thoroughly cleared as above described, the passage of a suitably curved probe is much facilitated and will probably succeed in about 50 per cent of cases with care and patience. An easily bent probe should be used and in each case careful measurements should be made; the course of the infundibulum, and any obstructions met with should be carefully recorded,, a fine flexible cannula should then be bent to the shape of the probe and a separate instrument must be kept for each individual case. Having inserted the cannula the sinus is washed out through it with