AFFECTIONS OF THE LIPS. 123 the growth which is left attached to the jaw. After the flaps have been dissected up, they are turned aside and the affected part of the jaw is removed. In some cases the disease affects only the alveolar portion of the bone, so that its lower margin remains intact, and if this be the case it may be possible, by extracting teeth on either side of the growth and by sawing vertically through about two-thirds of the depth of the bone and then joining the lower ends of these incisions by a horizontal saw-cut, to leave a bridge of bone which will maintain the continuity of the jaw and prevent deformity. The periosteum must be removed with the bone in situ. This operation is usually very tedious, as the horizontal saw-cut has to be effected with a Hey's saw; if a circular saw driven by a motor be at hand, of course the operation is enormously facilitated. The usual plan is to almost divide the bone with a saw and to complete the division with A B Fig. 35.—Incisions for the Removal of an Epithelioma occupying the Bulk of the Lower Lip. The growth is removed by the V-shaped incision aec. To restore the lip, the incision at is prolonged downwards and backwards to b, and the incision ce to d. The mucous membrane is stitched to the skin along the edges a/, eg, and the flaps are then raised and sutured as shown in B. a few strokes of the chisel, but the latter must be a very carefully used, as otherwise the narrow bridge of bone may be fractured and the whole object of the operation defeated. When the bone has been removed, the flaps are brought together so as to restore the lip, and afterwards a dentist will probably be able to supply the patient with artificial teeth to take the place of those that are lost. In bring- ing up the flaps to form a fresh lip, a raw surface may be left below. It is a good plan to cover this in with a Thiersch's skin-graft, as otherwise the contraction may lead to a certain amount of deformity by pulling upon the new lip. In many cases, however, the growth involves the whole depth of the jaw, and it is impossible to save any portion of it. If the growth be situated over the symphysis, this portion of the bone will require removal, and this necessi tates the separation of the muscles attached to its posterior surface. The result is that the tongue is likely to fall back, and to prevent this a stout silk thread