297 ACUTE INFLAMMATIONS. the patient should sleep with the window open all the year round, though a small fire in the very cold weather is desirable. Generally speaking, every means must be taken to keep in good general health ; tonics should be prescribed if necessary, and the well-known causes of cold should be avoided. RHINITIS IN THE SPECIFIC FEVERS—Some of the most severe forms of acute rhinitis are met with as symptoms or complications of the acute infectious fevers. Thus, rhinitis occurs constantly in measles, whooping cough, and influenza, very commonly in scarlet fever, typhoid, typhus, smallpox, chicken-pox, etc., and is often seen in the secondary stage of syphilis. In diphtheria and erysipelas an acute inflammation of the nose may also be found, but in such cases the nose is really attacked by the specific process. The eruption of smallpox, chicken-pox, etc., may also appear in the nose. Nothing further need be said about these cases of rhinitis, except that they are of a very severe type, are often associated with or followed by inflammation of the accessory sinuses, and that they are very apt to become chronic and to lead to important changes in the nasal mucous membrane. GONORRHEAL RHINITIS.—Gonorrhoea of the nose is very rarely seen in adults, but it is occasionally produced by direct inoculation of the nose with infected hands, and in some cases the affection is very severe. A few cases of purulent rhinitis are seen in infancy in which the gonococcus can be demonstrated in the discharge, and mild rhinitis associated with and probably due to the gonococcus is not at all rare in infants suffering from gonorrhoea! ophthalmia. In most of the latter cases the nasal discharge is slight and unimportant, but in a few it is purulent and associated with complete nasal obstruction and excoriation of the upper lip. Treatment.—The treatment consists in thoroughly cleansing the nose by frequent irrigation with mild antiseptic solutions. Boracic acid (gr. xv. to 5j)> or a solution of common salt with sanitas or permanganate of potash 1 may be used, and, in the first instance, the syringing should always be done by a surgeon or trained nurse (see p. 283). Many of these infants have considerable difficulty in suckling and must be fed with a spoon. As a rule recovery is rapid if the treatment be thoroughly carried out. All the instruments used must be carefully disinfected, and not employed for other purposes. TRAUMATIC RHINITIS.—This is a rhinitis due to the inhalation of irritating particles of dust of various kinds, and is seen amongst millers, sawyers, brush-makers, metal workers, etc., and also, in its most severe forms, amongst workers in certain chemicals, such as arsenic, mercurial sublimate, and bichromate of potassium. Symptoms.—In its milder forms the patient complains of a dry nose 1 The salt solution should be of the strength of about 5 grs. to the ounce, and to this xx.-xxx. minims of sanitas or gr. j.-ij. of potassium permanganate may be added.