ACUTE (EDEMATOUS LARYNGITIS. 43' very extensive and marked oedema of a large part of the laryngeal mucous membrane. This may be a primary affection starting in the larynx, or secondary to an acute inflammation of adjoining parts, such as tonsillitis or Ludovic's angina. Whether starting primarily in the larynx or spreading to it from adjoining parts an acute spreading cellulitis or an acute abscess may result. A third form of cedematous laryngitis is due to trauma; it may be caused by any injury, but is most commonly seen in children as the result of scalds of the larynx, either from actually swallowing boiling water or from inhaling boiling steam. A similar condition may result from swallowing corrosive poisons. This form not uncommonly ends in gangrene. Symptoms.—In the milder form the disease simply gives rise to the sensation of a lump in the throat with slight soreness. Deglutition may be difficult if the epiglottis be much swollen. If the oedema be very extensive and especially if the glottic region be affected (which is luckily rare) there will be dyspnoea, which often occurs in severe paroxysms and may prove fatal. The cedematous parts appear as large red semi- translucent masses^ the epiglottis and arytenoids being especially affected. The prognosis depends almost entirely upon the cause. In the simplest cases there is practically no danger except in children in whom sudden asphyxia may occur. In scalds of the larynx, should the child not be suffering severely from shock, a good recovery may usually be expected. The septic cases associated with extensive cellulitis are very often fatal from exhaustion, septicaemia or lung complications. When the laryngeal cartilages are involved in the inflammation, necrosis may result and, should the patient survive, the tracheotomy tube may be permanently required. Treatment.—The milder cases should be treated strictly according to the rules laid down for acute laryngitis (see p. 425). The patient must be kept in an equable temperature and, if the affection be at all severe, he should be placed in bed. A brisk purge should be administered and the diet should be light and not stimulating. All food should be given cold. If steam inhalations be ordered, great care must be taken that the patient does not use them too hot, and their action must be carefully watched to see that the oedema does not increase. If there be any increase in the oedema, the application of leeches over the larynx may be tried; three or four are required in an adult and they usually act well in the mild cases. Should the steam inhalations seem to be increasing the oedema, they should be at once abandoned and the constant sucking of ice substituted. Should the oedema threaten asphyxia, scarification may be tried. This is carried out by means of Mackenzie's laryngeal lancet or by Heryng's knife; both instruments require to be used with great care and should always be guided by the laryngoscope, consequently the method is un- suitable for children. Attempts to guide the instrument by the finger are