221 MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE UPPER JAW. it is advisable to saw through the lower part of the jaw from before back- wards so as to leave the alveolus intact, but in a considerable number of rases, probably more often than is done, it is possible to leave the muco- periosteum of the hard palate behind and afterwards to attach it to the cheek so as to shut off the cavity from the mouth. When this procedure is decided on, an. incision should be carried along the palate on the side affected, just inside the teeth, extending from the hamular process to a little beyond the middle line in front, and the periosteum and mucous membrane should be raised with an elevator as far as the middle line, as in the operation for cleft palate. It is well to divide the soft palate from the hard by a transverse cut as in the previous operation ; this can be readily stitched up afterwards. After the operation is completed, the free edge of this muco-periosteal flap is stitched with catgut to the line of division of the mucous membrane on the inner side of the cheek and the incision between it and the soft palate is also similarly united; in this way the cavity of the nose is shut off from the mouth. The only difficulty is in regard to stuffing the cavity should that be required; as has been said, however, it is best not to employ stuffing in any case except for the first few hours, and the strips of gauze put in at the time of operation •can be readily pulled out through the nostril. In some cases the skin flaps must be modified so as to remove portions of the skin over the tumour when the latter is suspiciously near the surface. Under such circumstances a plastic operation will be required, either at the time or at a later period, in order to cover up the defect; whenever possible, the plastic operation should be done at the time of the operation. Sometimes, however, the gap is so large that it is impossible to close it in this way, and under the circumstances it may be best to leave it open and cover it up with a flesh-coloured plate held in position by spectacles. There is the great advantage in doing this that the cavity can be inspected and any sign of recurrence nipped in the bud by the application of caustics such as chloride of zinc paste or sulphuric acid (see Part II., p. 164). INTRA-NASAL MALIGNANT TUMOURS. Operations in connection with the upper jaw may be required for disease limited to the nasal cavity and not requiring complete excision of the entire jaw for its removal. For example epithelioma or even sarcoma may commence in the mucous membrane or the bony wall of the nasal cavity, such as the upper surface of the hard palate, the turbinals, etc. It is very seldom that malignant disease of the nose can be dealt with by any of the intra-nasal methods. In order to give the patient a fair chance, some external operation must be performed. When the disease is situated towards the anterior part of the nasal cavity, there are two chief methods in which it can be reached and removed ; the one is the opera- tion introduced by Rouge, the other is an operation involving an external incision with detachment of the affected side of the nose from the bone.