THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. 13° It would seem that wherever it is found necessary to perform an operation so severe as this, it would be well to go further and remove the Gasserian ganglion itself, an operation first practised by Professor William Rose in 1890. There are two principal methods of doing this—the extra-cranial method introduced by Professor Rose, and the intra-cranial one devised independently by Hartley and Krause. We quote these operations direct from their authors. Division of the inferior maxillary nerve at the foramen ovale.—"The auditory meatus and external ear are purified thoroughly, and the former plugged with a piece of salicylic wool or cyanide gauze. The skin incision is so planned, as to leave a scar as unobtrusive as possible. Commencing about the middle of the zygoma, the knife is carried backward and downward over the parotid region to the angle of the jaw, and Fig. 36.—Incisions for Exposure of the Third Division of the Fifth Nerve, and for Removal of the Gasserian Ganglion, c is the incision referred to in the text for neurectomy of the third division, the dotted continuation being the additional incision needed in the operation upon the Gasserian ganglion, a is the Braun-Lossen incision for exposing the foramen rotundum, and b the Liicke-Sonnenburg incision to expose the foramen ovale. (Rose.) then for a short distance along the horizontal ramus (Fig. 36). A semilunar flap con- sisting of skin and subcutaneous tissue only should be raised and turned forward, and for convenience temporarily stitched across the opposite side and carefully protected. This flap must be so dissected as not to injure any of the branches of the facial nerve. By this means are exposed the masseteric fascia, branches of the facial nerve, Stenson's duct, and a portion of the parotid gland. The deep fascia and masseter muscle are then divided by a transverse incision below and parallel to Stenson's duct, cutting directly down to the bone about a centimetre below the sigmoid notch. Great care must be taken not to wound any of the lobules of the parotid whilst so doing, for even though the main duct be not divided a salivary fistula may ensue, leading to interference with the healing of the wound. The outer surface of the jaw is next denuded of periosteum by means of raspatories, and the soft parts held aside by suitable retractors to allow of the application of a trephine, the diameter of which should not be less than f in. It should be so applied as to leave between it and the sigmoid notch a narrow bridge of bone which can be subsequently clipped away by cutting pliers, and a sufficient amount of bone in