87 TUMOURS OF THE BRAIN. by post-mortem examination that at most io°/0 of tumours of the brain are removable, and in these the operation required would be so serious that a considerable proportion would not recover. Hence, as regards the radical treatment of tumour of the brain, the outlook is distinctly dis- couraging. In the case of tuberculous tumours, for example, it is usual to find around the main nodule a number of smaller tuberculous masses infiltrating the brain, which will subsequently increase in size and lead to the death of the patient. In cases of glioma there is no capsule, and it is most difficult to decide what is tumour and what is brain substance, and thus early recurrence after operation for glioma is practically the rule. The most favourable tumours are sarcomata with distinct capsules, but even then recurrence is very common. The best results have been obtained in cases of cysts or syphilitic gummata. Indications.—The operative treatment of these cases may have one of two objects ; in the first place, when the tumour is small, of slow growth, and superficially placed, the object of the operation is to remove the tumour and presumably therefore to cure the patient; in the majority of cases on the other hand, the tumour is large, very rapidly growing and diffuse or deeply seated and therefore not likely to be removed successfully; the question then arises whether operation may not be undertaken for the purpose of relieving the severe symptoms, such as headache, epileptiform convulsions, etc., which are caused by the increased intra-cranial tension. Much will depend on the urgency of the symptoms and on the probable prolongation of life which will result. When the tumour, while apparently diffuse, deep-seated and beyond the possibility of removal, is not causing very acute or painful symptoms, such as headache or epileptiform convul- sions, there is no real object in operating. On the other hand, when the patient is still conscious and is suffering acutely from the pressure of the tumour, his condition will be made much more comfortable by opening the skull freely; and it is just ''possible that the tumour may be found to be of such a nature or in such a situation that it may be removed. Methods.—The actual steps of the operation for removal of a tumour of the brain are as follows. In the first place, the scalp should be completely shaved the night before the operation and thoroughly disinfected in the manner already described (see Part I., p. 161). It is then necessary to mark out upon the scalp the chief localising points and the supposed area of the tumour in its relation to the convolutions. The important convolutions to mark out are those in front of and behind the fissure of Rolando, and there are various ways in which the position of this fissure may be ascertained. The principal points are the glabella at the root of the nose, the external occipital protuberance, the bregma half-way between these, the external angle of the orbit and the tip of the mastoid process. The methods of localising the Fissure of Rolando.—The upper end of the fissure of Rolando is situated about five centimetres behind the bregma and it runs downwards and forwards, forming an angle with an antero-