CHAPTER XIX. TUMOURS OF THE NASO-PHARYNX. Tumours in the nasopharynx are not uncommon and may be either polypoid or sessile, simple or malignant. The ordinary naso-pharyngeal polypi may be simple fibromata, but perhaps most frequently they are fibro-sarcomata, and unless carefully removed are very apt to recur. They generally have a broad attachment to the under surface of the sphenoid, and often run forwards on to the posterior part of the roof of the nose. They are usually very firm and contain large blood-vessels, more especially large venous sinuses, and, the vessels do not lie in a sheath and therefore do not retract when divided; hence, incision into one of these naso- pharyngeal polypi is usually followed by furious bleeding which does not cease spontaneously. The naso-pharyngeal polypi grow with varying rapidity according to their nature. They fill up the naso-pharynx, bulge down the soft palate and may even escape behind the latter and project into the pharynx itself; they also grow forwards into the posterior part of the nose. The surface frequently becomes abraded and bleeding is very common and usually very severe. Hence these tumours cannot be left alone; it is necessary to attempt their removal. Treatment.—Attempts have been frequently made to remove these tumours by means of a wire loop, an dcraseur, or the galvanic wire, but these attempts are not as a rule followed by success. In the first place, an ordinary wire loop is out of the question; apart from the difficulty of getting it round the base of the growth, it is not strong enough to cut it through. With the ecraseur the great difficulty is to get the loop round the base of the tumour and, without some operative interference, this is usually impossible. The great objection to all these methods is that only the neck of the tumour is cut across and the base is left behind and tends to grow again, sometimes pretty quickly; besides this, the base is very vascular and the bleeding may be very severe or even actually fatal. Hence, in most cases of naso-pharyngeal polypi it is well to expose the