426 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LARYNX. vapor benzoin, comp.1 used as already described (see p. 421) three or four times daily for about five minutes at a time. If in spite of this the cough is troublesome, morphine (gr. ^) should be insufflated into the larynx or small doses of tincture of opium given internally. In simple laryngitis this treatment suffices to obtain a cure, often in 48 hours. If bronchitis be present it must be treated accordingly. As the affection subsides, a more stimulating inhalation, such as the vapor pini sylvestris,- may be used, and later still it may be necessary to apply astringent paints as for chronic laryngitis. In the severer cases in which inflammatory infiltration into the thyro- arytenoidei interni has occurred, a weak voice, due to deficient tension of the vocal cords, is apt to remain. This is best combated by continued rest of the voice and the application of astringent paints, and later, if necessary, by the use of the Faradic current (see p. 453). When the attack has subsided, the attention should be directed towards the removal of any of the predisposing causes above described, and especially any abnormal condition of the upper air passages. ACUTE LARYNGITIS IN CHILDREN. Besides the mild form of acute laryngitis similar in all respects to the disease in adults, children, especially infants from one to four years of age, may suffer from a much more severe form of the affection. This is apparently due to involvement of the glottic and sub-glottic regions of the larynx, when, in addition to the loss of voice and croupy cough, there may be considerable dyspnoea, which commonly occurs in paroxysmal attacks, most often at night—whence the affection is commonly spoken of as " spasmodic laryngitis." The glottic, and especially the sub-glottic, region of the infantile larynx is extremely narrow; consequently slight swelling is liable to produce alarming dyspnoea, and this is aggravated should any secretion accumulate there during sleep. In the majority of these cases some disease of the upper air passages, such as enlarged tonsils or adenoids is present. Symptoms.—The child, who perhaps has been out of sorts and hoarse for a few days, or has suffered from a croupy cough, suddenly awakens at night with a severe spasm of dyspnoea. This, though very alarming, commonly passes off in five or ten minutes; it may be repeated again in a few hours, and similar attacks will occur on four or five succeeding nights. In rare cases the dyspnoea may prove fatal. ^his is prepared by adding one teaspoonful of compound tincture of benzoin to a pint of hot water (about 1400 F.). 2 The following formula may be used : R Ol: pini sylvestris, - m. 40 Magnes. carb. levis, - - - - - - gr. 20 Aquam, ad 5j A teaspoonful in a pint of hot water for each inhalation.