TUMOURS OF THE BRAIN. 95 Fig. 27. It is done by making trephine holes at the angles of the bone-flap after turning the scalp aside to a small extent, and then clipping out vertical grooves between these holes. In this way a trench is formed, which is connected with its fellow along the top of the bone-flap by means of a saw-cut carried very obliquely through the two tables of the skull, lest the Hap of bone when restored to place may fall in and press on the brain. The base of the bone-flap is divided as above. Where a bone-flap is employed, the entire flap should be turned down and kept out of the way until it is replaced at the end of the operation. Fig. 27.—A Method of forming an Osteo-Plastic Flap in Operations upon the Brain. The usual curved incision is made ihrough the scalp. The square of bone to be turned down is then marked out by incisions through the pericranium along its superior horizontal and two vertical sides. The pericranium and the soft parts are retracted on either side of these lines, and four trephine holes, T, are made, one at each corner of the square. The upper hole on each side is connected with the corresponding lower one by a trench, (>, made by Hoffman's forceps (see Fig. 6), a parting tool (see Fig. 13), a centre-bit, or by a series of overlapping trephine holes. The two upper trephine holes are now connected by a horizontal saw-cut, s, which is made with a circular or a Hey's saw held very obliquely to the surface of the skull. It now only remains to divide subcutaneously the base of the osseous flap across the dotted line. This may be done with a Gigli's wire saw (see Fig. 10), or the chisel figured above. In B the flap is turned down. The bone, retaining its full connection with the flap of soft parts unites well, and there is no tendency for it to slip into the cranial cavity, as the bevelled edge of the upper side of the aperture, D, forms a shelf for it to rest upon. In A the skin-flap appears small relative to the size of the bone-flap. This is because the scalp is retracted towards the centre as the bone incision is being made ; it expands later. In all these cases of removal of a tumour it is well to introduce between the surface of the brain and the skull a piece of gold-foil (see p. 71) in order to prevent adhesion of the brain to the skull. After-treatment.—The after-treatment does not present any points of special importance. The shock resulting from the operation must be combated by appropriate measures, care being taken, however, not to employ alcohol. The patient must be kept perfectly quiet in a darkened room and must not be disturbed by noises or by the visits of friends. Restlessness must be met by mechanical restraint of the head and, if necessary, injections of morphine. After two or three days the dressings should be changed, and any packing or drainage tube removed.