448 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LARYNX. of the vocal cords, ventricular bands, or the parts below is present, the important question to decide is whether active or palliative treatment should be adopted. If the affection be not too extensive, if the patient be in fair general health and the disease in the chest stationary or not rapidly progressing, and especially if the patient be fairly tolerant of laryngeal manipulations, an attempt should certainly be made to eradi- cate the laryngeal disease. For very superficial, small ulcerations the application of lactic acid alone may be first tried, and the following method is the best. The larynx is anaesthetised, and a small pledget of wool firmly wrapped around a wool carrier or a pair of laryngeal forceps is dipped in pure lactic acid and the surface of the ulcer thoroughly rubbed over with it. This should be repeated at least twice a week. After four or five strong applications, if there be signs of healing, weaker solutions (40°/,,—50%) may be applied with a brush. In more marked cases and in those which do not yield to this method the application of pure chromic acid may be tried; this should be thoroughly rubbed into the ulcer on one or two occasions and subsequently simple painting with lactic acid carried out. In most cases of extensive ulceration however and especially when there are tuberculous granulations on the surface, it is necessary to operate more thoroughly and it is advisable to use the curette, but no operation should be attempted unless it seems possible to remove all the local disease. Curetting is performed under local anaesthesia and more than one sitting may be required, but the operation should be completed in as short a time as possible. All the visible disease should be scraped or cut away with a sharp steel curette, such as Heryng's (see Fig. 145), after which the raw surface should be thoroughly cauterised with chromic acid. The operation may be repeated in a week if required. In this way the whole of one ventricular band or vocal cord may be removed. When all the disease has been removed, healing is usually rapid and once or twice a week the surface may be stimulated by the application of a 6o°/o solution of lactic acid. If there be much inflammation or pain, iodoform or a mixture of iodoform and orthoform may be insufflated. These operations in suitable cases give brilliant results. In a few cases the voice is restored; in the majority the disease in the larynx is permanently arrested even though that in the lungs progresses. 4. Of extensive disease with ulceration, oedema, perichondritis, etc.— In these cases only palliative treatment is possible and must be directed towards relieving the chief symptoms causing distress, viz. the dysphagia, the pain, the excessive, ineffective cough, and in rare cases the dyspnoea. The disease is too deeply situated and is usually associated with too much general enfeeblement to admit of active treatment such as scarifications, the use of lactic acid, chloride of zinc or other irritants. All irritants in the food, smoking, alcohol, etc., must be forbidden, and the patient