THE PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE FACE. 145 mucous membrane alone has been mainly destroyed, a small strip is trimmed off the scar tissue on each side and the sound skin is turned in and stitched to the healthy mucous membrane, so that the two are continuous and the normal mucous membrane of the red line is con- tinued outwards by skin. When the skin alone has been destroyed, the mucous membrane is turned outwards and stitched to it so as to form a properly mucous-covered lip. In cases where the skin is superabundant, instead of splitting the cheek in the first instance, a narrow triangular portion of skin with its base at the new angle is raised (see Fig. 46) and the mucous membrane is then split outwards. The flap of skin is Fig. 47.—Plastic Operations upon the Mouth. The two left-hand figures show the operation devised by Esthlander to restore the lower lip and angle of the mouth. A triangular flap abc* consisting of the entire thickness of the cheek and containing the coronary artery in its pedicle a, is cut from the cheek and rotated into the gap in the lower lip. This gives a flap covered by mucous membrane on its deep surface and bounded above by the red line of the lip. The right-hand figure is Dieffenbach's method of restoring the upper lip. By marking out the flaps somewhat lower down on the cheek they can be used equally well to restore the lower lip. The flaps comprise the entire thickness of the cheek, and their deep surfaces are therefore lined by mucous membrane. now turned in and sutured to the mucous membrane so as to cover the new angle; this prevents any fresh contraction spreading from that point. The rest of the raw surface is covered by suturing the mucous membrane to the skin in the manner just described. This plan is very valuable when it can be employed; without it, contraction is very apt to occur at the angle and to diminish the size of the mouth again. PLASTIC OPERATIONS ON THE CHEEK. The method adopted for repairing defects in the cheek will depend upon the extent of the defect—in particular upon whether the cutaneous or mucous surface alone is wanting—and also upon the presence of complica- tions, such as closed jaw, ectropion of the lips or eyelids, etc. A fresh defect of the skin and subcutaneous tissues of the cheek, such as occurs after the removal of superficial tumours, may be closed in various ways according to its size, etc. The edges of a small oval defect may be brought together by undermining (see Part I., p. 178), or a fairly large circular surface may be covered with skin-grafts. Some- times the result is better when flaps are turned in from the neighbourhood 5 these are usually best fashioned from the .skin between the defect and the PT. V. K