65 INTRA-CRANIAL SUPPURATION. (see Division II.). The jugular vein is not of course the only communi- cation between the lateral sinus and the general circulation, but it is the main one and, as a matter of practical experience, it is found that, if the jugular be ligatured early in the course of the case, in the manner just described, a good result follows. 4. The treatment of extra-dural abscess.—When the general symptoms are very grave, and the lateral sinus and its groove are quite unaffected, it is advisable to carry the treatment further before closing the wound and to ascertain whether sub-dural suppuration exists. In some cases the roof of the attic is diseased, and there may even be an actual perforation from which pus is escaping. The bony roof of the attic must then be exposed and the dura mater lifted up from it; as much of the diseased Fig. 16.—Exposure of the Upper Surface of the Petrous Bone. The mastoid antrum a has been laid into the external auditory meatus. The cranial cavity has been opened above the temporal ridge b, and the dura mater d has been lifted up by a spatula. This exposes the upper surface of the petrous bone c. The bridge of bone b may be chipped away if desired. bone as possible should be removed so as to provide free drainage. The best way to examine the condition of the dura mater over the roof of the attic and the adjacent part of the petrous bone is to enlarge .the opening already made for exposure of the antrum directly upwards and possibly a little forwards. The prominent ridge formed by the posterior or horizontal root of the zygoma, which is prolonged backwards as the commencement of the temporal ridge, is easily identified, and serves as a landmark. It corresponds to the level of the under surface of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe and the upper surface of the petrous portion upon which it lies. The incision in the skull should therefore be carried well above this ridge (see Fig. 16, />), when the cranial cavity will be opened. The dura is now separated from the petrous bone with a suitable blunt spatula (see Fig. 17) and raised so that any pus between it and the bone can escape and so pt. v. e c d