AFFECTIONS OF THE SCALP. 13 some of the cyanide paste rubbed into the scalp, and the hair combed over the dressing. At the end of a week the dressing may be picked off and the wound will be found to have healed. When the cyst ivall has become inflamed and adherent to the surrounding parts, the tumour must be cleanly dissected out, and great care must be taken not to leave any part of the cyst wall behind. A general anaesthetic will usually be necessary, and it is well early in the operation to define some part of the cyst wall, preferably the deeper part where the inflamma- tion is less, and then, by passing a dissector around the wall from this region, it will generally be possible to get an indication of the limits of the cyst and so to remove it without opening it. A drainage tube must be put in for two or three days in case the wound should become infected as the result of the previously existing suppuration. DERMOID CYSTS.—Dermoid cysts are not uncommon on the scalp and are most frequently found about the external angular process of the frontal bone, the root of the nose and the fontanelles. The chief point of interest in connection with these cysts is their differential diagnosis from meningocele, with which thjy are apt to be confounded. They are not, however, influenced in size by pressure, they do not diminish during sleep, and their contents are not so fluid as those of meningoceles. Treatment.—The treatment, of these cysts is removal by dissection and not by incision of the cyst as described in speaking of sebaceous tumours. It must be remembered that a dermoid cyst does not lie in the skin as a sebaceous cyst does, but in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, and an incision must therefore be made through the skin over the tumour until the cyst wall is reached, when it is usually quite easy to shell it out intact with a blunt dissector. The other details as to disinfection and sub- sequent dressing are the same as those just mentioned for sebaceous cysts. N-flSVI.—A variety of other tumours which do not require any special mention occur about the scalp; such are fibromata, lipomata, papillo- mata, horny growths, etc. The only tumours which require special notice are the vascular group. The scalp is a very common seat of npevus, the subcutaneous variety being probably the most frequent. Neevi may occur anywhere over the hairy scalp, but they are most common about the anterior fontanelle and in the frontal region. In the neighbourhood of the fontanelle the tumour may reach a considerable size and may some times extend to the dura mater. Treatment.—The treatment of nasvi has already been described (see Part I., p. 265). The ideal treatment, when the nrevus is quite small, is excision, but, when the tumour is large and the child very young, the loss of blood entailed by the operation may be too severe, and under such circumstances electrolysis is the better procedure. A very large number of naevi of the scalp can however be quite safely excised, the principal point of importance in the performance of the operation being to remove