312 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. normal, the cheek bones high, the nose broad and stumpy, scarcely pro- jecting at all in profile, and the wide, round nostrils look forward as well as downwards. The extreme patency of the nostrils is further increased by the small size of the inferior turbinates; this is due to the fact that, as the disease usually commences in early life, the turbinates never develop properly, but retain their infantile characters, and in part may be due to actual atrophy. The discharge, in the majority of cases, is mainly derived from the general mucous membrane of the nose. In a few cases ozaena is complicated by suppuration in one of the accessory sinuses, but the latter must be regarded as a supplementary and not as the main source of the discharge. It is most probable that the affection starts in infancy or early child- hood as a purulent rhinitis, probably of an infectious nature. Careful inquiries show that the disease may be often dated back to one of the specific fevers, such as measles, scarlet fever, etc. These forms of rhinitis in childhood are accompanied by a rapid proliferation of the ciliated surface epithelium, which in consequence tends to revert to an original simpler type, gradually losing its cilia and becoming squamous. An abnormally wide nasal fossa increases the difficulty in removing the discharge both by diminishing the vis a tergo in blowing the nose and by aiding the tendency of the discharge to dry and become tenacious. The crusts adhering firmly still further damage the mucous membrane and also form an excellent nutrient medium for the development of organisms: the latter by their growth cause decomposition and the formation of irritating products, which still further excite secretion and thus a vicious circle is established. Various predisposing circumstances probably play an important part in the development of the disease, the most important of which are impair- ment of the general health due to the severity of the original infection, total neglect of the nasal disease in its early stages and an inherited tendency to the affection. This is the etiology in the large majority of cases, but in a few the affection may be the result of inherited or tertiary syphilis. Extensive ulceration and necrosis of the inferior turbinate will leave an abnormally wide nose lined by scar tissue and squamous epithelium, and in it purulent crusts may accumulate. Pathology.—The changes of chief importance are those occurring in the inferior meatus of the nose. The mucous membrane over the inferior turbinate is shrunken, firm and adherent to the bone, and in many cases the bone itself is very small and may form a mere ridge along the outer wall of the nose. The histological changes in the mucous membrane must be briefly referred to as they probably account for the intractability of the disease. The columnar ciliated surface epithelium is found to be almost entirely replaced by the squamous form. The mucous glands are partly destroyed, are few in number, and those remaining are frequently degenerated. The vascular plexuses are for the most part obliterated and the entire mucous