440 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LARYNX. extirpation of the growth j in the extrinsic form this is usually im- possible. Of intrinsic laryngeal cancer.—When first seen, unless the diag- nosis be absolutely certain, the patient should be treated with anti-syphilitic remedies and especially by means of inunctions of mercurial ointment (see Part I., p. 233). If the case seem suitable for operation, a piece of the growth should be removed for microscopical examination so as to absolutely verify the diagnosis; but this should never be done unless the surgeon intends to follow it up by extirpation, as it usually excites increased activity in growth. Operative.—In carcinoma all intra-laryngeal methods of removal may be at once condemned as inefficient; the choice lies between thyrotomy and partial or complete extirpation of the larynx. When the growth involves extensively both sides of the larynx and the patient seems a suitable subject for a major operation, extirpation of the larynx (see p. 261) may be undertaken. If a small growth be present and especially if it be limited to one side of the larynx, thyrotomy (see p. 25S) may be performed. It is better to prepare the patient for the major operation and then to open the larynx and proceed according to what is found. These operations are fully described elsewhere. Palliative.—Should the patient decline operation, or should the case be unsuitable, palliative measures must be adopted. These consist in attention to the general health and especially the administration of a suitable amount of food, in the relief of pain, and in the performance of tracheotomy as soon as dyspnoea occurs. The pain and dysphagia may be relieved by the insufflation of orthoform. This powder is non-poisonous, and therefore the surface of the growth may be freely dusted with it. It usually gives complete relief from pain for at least twenty-four hours, when the insufflation should be repeated; its application may be entrusted to a trained nurse. Should it fail, the pain must be relieved by the adminis- tration of opium or morphine. The difficulty in swallowing may sometimes be aided by posture (see p. 449). The patient can often swallow soft solids or thickened fluids better than liquids, which excite spasm from entering the larynx; all fluids should then be thickened, and in extreme cases food must be administered per rectum. Should obstruction be present from spread of the growth to the pharynx, the patient must be fed by means of an oeso- phageal tube, or the question of gastrostomy must be considered. When dyspnoea is present from stenosis of the larynx, tracheotomy must be performed, and the cannula should always be inserted as low as possible in order that the tracheotomy wound may not be subsequently involved in the growth. Of extrinsic laryngeal cancer.—These growths can only be successfully extirpated in the early stages. The operation to be performed depends upon the situation of the growth, and no general directions can be given. In some cases it can best be reached by dividing the thyroid