HARK-1.11'. lip (see p. 143), and then to remove a small elliptical portion of the cheek in addition so that, when the lip is brought inwards, the ala is not carried inwards to the same extent (see Fig. 44)- By operating in this manner the lip can be completely repaired without unduly narrowing the nostril. This is even more important in cases of bilateral cleft where both sides of the lip are shortened. In other respects the operation is carried out as described above. 4. Double hare-lip.—Double hare-lip is usually complete, but if it is not, the incisions must be carried up into the nostril. The first point for consideration is what shall be done with the pre-maxilla and the prolabium over it. In any case the prolabium must be detached from the bone and the latter should never be removed if it is possible to avoid it. If it be taken away, a gap is left into which the central unsupported portion of the lip falls and a most unsightly appearance results. In most cases the bone can be easily forced back into position by firm pressure after the prolabium has been detached. In other cases it is connected with the septum and cannot be forced back until the latter has been divided. This may be done through an incision in the mouth along the margin of the septum. The mucous membrane and periosteum are detached on each side, and the septum is then cut across or a V-shaped portion is removed from it (see Fig. 63). If it merely be divided transversely, the anterior part of the septum is pushed a little to one side of the fig. 63.~v-shaped posterior so that, when the pre-maxilla is forced back tum for projecting the anterior part slides along the side of the posterior ^uedlin'e on ttJiip and allows the bone to come into position. In whatever j^^,.10 ThuePHp way the pre-maxilla is brought into position, the mucous to°h1owbitturnedback surface on each side should be pared, as well as that on the opposite sides of the gap in the alveolus and these raw surfaces should be fastened together by catgut stitches running through the mucous mem- brane of the gum. When it is impossible to get the pre-maxilla into position, an incision may be made into its lower edge and the teeth scooped out of it; a shell of bone and periosteum is left which will subsequently ossify and support the central part of the lip. Attention is next directed to the prolabium. In some cases the columella is so short that the prolabium when pared is simply sufficient to repair this or at most to provide a little triangular tongue extending into the lip. When the columella is long enough, the prolabium must be pared, usually in a rectangular manner (see Fig. 64) to fit in between the sides of the lip when they are brought inwards. The lip on each side is then separated from the alveolus in the usual manner, and it is often advisable to carry an incision up around each ala and to remove an elliptical portion of the skin as already described above (see p. 143) so as to allow the two sides of the lip to come