113 FRACTURES OF THE NASAL BONES. other to keeping the nasal duct open by means of the regular introduction of suitable probes. If cerebral injury be present, the case must be treated on the lines laid down for fracture of the base of the skull (see p. 28), the fracture of the nasal bones being then of secondary importance; care should nevertheless be taken to remedy the deformity. Compound fracture in this situation is not, as a rule, accompanied by serious symptoms. The healing takes place very readily, and it is but seldom that septic infection gains a foothold or that necrosis of the fragments occurs. When the fracture is compound through the skin, the wound should be purified in the ordinary manner, and special care must be taken to prevent the strong lotions from getting into the eyes. The edges of the wound should be brought together as accurately as possible by means of fine horsehair sutures. Should the wound become septic, large boracic fomentations should be employed, combined with frequent douching of the nasal cavity with warm boracic lotion. Of long-standing' deformity.—The surgeon is sometimes consulted with regard to old cases of fracture of the nose, in which there has been considerable loss of substance or marked depression, or in which coal-dust or other material has been ground into the soft parts leaving an unsightly or pigmented scar. The latter condition has already been referred to (see p. 96). The possibility of remedying the permanent deformities of the nasal bones frequently requires very careful consideration. At an early period it may be possible, by introducing a fine chisel through small incisions in the skin, to chisel through the bones at the line of fracture, and, when they have been properly loosened, they may be brought into position by lateral pressure—either by the hare-lip pins or by the pads on each side of the nose mentioned above. In other cases however the fracture is of such long standing that the deformity cannot be remedied in this way. When the bridge of the nose is much depressed, the tilting forward of the nostrils is of itself so unsightly that a more elaborate operation must be performed* similar to that employed for cases in which the bridge of the nose has been lost from disease. These operations will be more conveniently considered in connection with the plastic surgery of the face (see Chap. XII.). pt. v. H