398 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE EAR. Cocaine is first thoroughly applied, some of the powdered drug being dusted over the growth, which is then cleanly cut off, and its base is dried and cauterised. Larger growths or polypi are best removed by means of a fine snare, such as Politzer's or Wilde's, threaded with gimp. A general anaesthetic is always advisable. The loop of the snare is slipped well over the growth and tightened; the growth should then be pulled away rather than cut through. If the bleeding can be arrested, the stump of the polypus should be cauterised, or curetted. When polypi and granula- tions frequently return in spite of this treatment, the presence of carious bone may be confidently diagnosed, and further operation is required. In the first place, removal of the ossicles, if not already performed, should be carried out, and the attic thoroughly curetted. Where this is not effectual the complete post-aural operation should be adopted. Of caries and necrosis of the ossicles.—This can usually be detected by the situation of the perforation, or by means of a probe. The treatment is removal as above described (see p. 396). Of caries of the temporal bone.—This is generally recognised by the per- sistence of the discharge after removal of the ossicles, by recurrences of granulations or polypi, or carious spots may be felt with the probe. In the simpler cases where no cerebral symptoms are present, and where the caries does not seem to be extensive, removal of the ossicles should be first tried, and the carious parts thoroughly curetted, all granulations and polypi being removed. If this treatment be ineffectual, or if an extensive necrosis be present, the complete post-aural operation is required. Of cholesteatoma.—The epithelial masses must first be entirely removed from the external auditory meatus, as already described (see p. 376), and if the drum be extensively destroyed, the same measures may be adopted to remove them from the tympanum. Great care and time are usually required, and a general anaesthetic is necessary. Sometimes a large mass in the anterior part of the tympanum may be dislodged by the injection of fluid through the Eustachian catheter. Where only a small perforation is present it will be necesary to enlarge it, and the best method is to remove the whole drum together with the incus and the malleus, as already described (see p. 396). Then, by syringing and curetting, the tympanum can be thoroughly cleared, but should cholesteatomatous masses also be present in the antrum, as is not unlikely in a severe case, or should the bony walls of the tympanum be carious, the complete post-aural opera- tion should be carried out. Of facial paralysis.—Paralysis of the facial nerve occurs either from pres- sure of exudation in the middle ear or from direct involvement in an inflammatory process, when either the canal of the facial nerve is opened by caries of its walls or there is some congenital anomaly. The treatment is to secure free evacuation of the contents of the tympanum, but the greatest care must be taken not to use the instruments, and especially the curette, with too much force. Should this treatment fail, or should extensive caries