TRIGEMINAL NEURALGIA. 135 fully guarded, and round which a ligature should now be passed (Fig. 38), is to be traced up to the ganglion, which should be loosened from its resting place upon the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. No great difficulty need be experienced as regards the posterior half, but inasmuch as the anterior and upper portion is closely incorporated with the dura! sheath, it is perhaps better to sever the connection between the ganglion and the brain at its exit from the dura, and then to draw it forward with a delicate pair of forceps. For this work a pair of fine hooks such as those made for me by Mr. Hawksley will be found most useful: one of them is an ordinary blunt-pointed hook to pass round the nerves and free them from their connections : the other has a sharp edge upon its concave aspect to be used for cutting them through. A pair of long-handled strabismus scissors may also be required. It is quite possible that in dividing the root of the nerve just outside the dura a prolongation of the sub-dural space may be opened, and a small quantity of cerebro-spinal fluid escape through it ; this, however, will be of slight extent, and is of no moment, if the wound be kept aseptic. The second division of the nerve must now be dealt with, and this may be facilitated by enlarging the opening in the base of the skull in the direction of the pterygoid processes, and holding up the dural wall out of the way ; it may be divided just in front of the ganglion by the sharp hook. Having thus severed all its connections except the ophthalmic division, the ganglionic tissue, which is exceedingly soft, may be pulled away piecemeal by forceps or by a small curette as recommended by Professoi Andrews. In this way the danger of wounding the cavernous sinus is reduced to a minimum. "Reposition of displaced structures and closure of wound.—After the steps detailed above have been satisfactorily accomplished, the toilet of the wound must be attended to. The bleeding having been staunched, the parts should be thoroughly washed with a 1-40 solution of carbolic acid. The coronoid process may be either saturated or removed ; in my last case I removed it. Silver wire should be passed through the holes previously drilled in the zygoma, so that it can be accurately adjusted. By this means the contour of the face will not be interfered with, the chances of necrosis or collapse of the zygoma prevented, and firm bony union assured. The integuments may now be brought together with a continuous fine catgut suture, care being taken to adapt the parts accurately to each other. No drain tube is needed, although in my first two cases I used one as a precautionary measure. If the wound has been occasionally irrigated during the operation, and complete asepsis maintained, primary union may certainly be expected. I am glad to say that no suppuration has occurred in any of my cases. To prevent accumulation of blood in the wound, gentle but continuous pressure by means of a purified sponge intro- duced between the second and third layers of the cyanide gauze will be found very efficacious for the first forty-eight hours. In addition to the face dressing, both eyes should be care- fully covered with pads of salicylic wool and lightly bandaged. A certain amount of shock necessarily follows such a protracted operation, and a subsequent elevation oftempera- ture must be expected at the end of the second day. Beyond this no symptoms of importance have been exhibited. The dressing has usually required changing once or twice in the first four days, at the expiration of which time it may be replaced by gauze fixed down with collodion. The stitches can be removed at the end of a week, if they have not already been absorbed. The eye should be kept closed for at least four days when the stitch in the lids may be removed; but it is safer to keep both eyes bandaged for a week, and the eye on the side operated on for three or four weeks." Hartley's method.1—" An omega-shaped incision was made, having its base at the zygoma and measuring a distance marked by a line drawn from the external angular process of the frontal bone to the tragus of the ear. " The curved and rounded portion of this incision reached as high as the supratemporal ridge, the diameter of said circle being three inches. The skin and deeper tissues were cut in the shape of the Greek capital letter Omega. This incision was carried down to the 1 Annals of Surgery* 1893, Vol. XVII., p. 509.