INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES. 353 the following reasons—1. Pain, which may be severe; in some cases it is described as maddening, and though intermittent it lasts hours or even days at a time, during which the patient is totally incapacitated. In other cases there is frequent and severe headache, rendering the patient unable to work or to attend to household , duties. 2. Deficient drainage. The opening into the sinus may be small and frequently blocked and in these cases delay in operating is dangerous. 3. Bulging of the cavity or a dis- charging external sinus. These conditions imply disease of the bony walls and naturally demand operation. 4. Symptoms of cerebral trouble are an urgent indication for operation. 5. General ill-health, if apparently due to the disease. Probably as operative methods improve and become less risky, operation may be advised in nearly every case in order to stop the irritating nasal discharge, to prevent the recurrence of nasal polypi and granulations and to remove the liability of complications supervening. In advising an operation for the cure of frontal sinus suppuration the great variation in size to which this cavity is liable must be considered. It may be an extremely small cavity; only the orbital or lower portion may be present, the anterior or upper portion being entirely absent; or it may be an extremely large one extending upwards from the supra-orbital margin for an inch and a half or more, outwards to the extreme outer angle of the orbit and backwards over the roof of the latter as far as the sphenoid. It is obviously impossible owing to the situation of the sinus to establish a permanent external opening, and therefore in chronic cases in which the walls of the cavity are extensively diseased there is practically the choice of only two proceedings : either to entirely obliterate the sinus, or to remove the whole of the nasal portion of its floor and to establish a large communication between it and the nose. Operation.—The following are the steps of the operation which I prefer. A large sponge with a tape attached to facilitate its removal is passed through the mouth and tightly packed up into the post-nasal space. The eyebrow having been shaved and the skin cleansed, an incision is made in the line of the eyebrow or a millimeter or so below it and parallel to the supra-orbital margin, commencing at the inner end of the eyebrow and passing outwards to the supra-orbital notch. It should be carried at once down to the bone and the periosteum thoroughly divided. A median incision is preferred by some and has the advantage of allowing the exposure of both sinuses through one incision, but it is much more liable to lead to deformity, and when both sinuses are affected it is better to make the incision described above on either side. The incision below, or in the line of the eyebrow, will ultimately become entirely concealed ; it allows free exposure of both the anterior and inferior walls of the sinus, and if required may be conveniently prolonged downwards towards the inner canthus and thus allow free access to the infundibulum and anterior ethmoidal region. After the periosteum has been detached, a small opening pt. v. z