THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. 44 from the glabella backwards to the external occipital protuberance and another drawn at right angles to this slightly behind the tip of the mastoid process. Rupture of the middle meningeal artery generally occurs in connection with a fracture of the vault or the base of the skull, the line of fracture traversing the groove in which the artery lies (see Fig. n) or crossing the foramen spinosum itself and tearing the vessel. Rupture of the artery may however occur without any fracture and is then probably due to forcible detachment of the vessel from its groove in the bone due to the alteration in the shape of the skull resulting from the sudden application of violence, the artery being torn in the process of detachment. Haemorrhage of this kind without fracture occurs most commonly in adults, probably because in children the dura mater is more closely adherent to the bone and therefore less easily separated from it when the skull is compressed. The blood from the torn vessel is poured out between the dura mater and the skull and rapidly detaches the former from the bone. This blood soon clots and, according to the amount of clot, pressure is exercised upon the subjacent brain. The amount of clot may be twelve ounces or more and this will of course give rise to very serious compression of the brain. When the amount of clot is small, the effects of the pressure are manifested in one hemisphere only, the paralysis resulting from the pressure upon the motor areas being unilateral and possibly limited to particular centres. As the clot increases in size, however, the entire hemisphere shows the effect of pressure and in extensive haemorrhages the opposite hemisphere is affected as well. As a rule the tendency of the blood is to spread downwards towards the base of the skull, and one of the typical symptoms, namely, dilatation of the pupil on the affected side, is probably due to clot passing downwards and pressing upon the third nerve. Should the rupture of the artery be accompanied by fracture of the skull, some of the blood escapes beneath the scalp and may form a distinct haematoma. Should the fracture be compound, there may be free escape of the blood externally, in which case the pressure symptoms may be absent or very slight. Symptoms.—When haemorrhage from the middle meningeal artery follows a fracture of the skull there is usually a history of temporary concussion followed by reaction and a lucid interval. This lucid interval varies from a few minutes to a few hours, and then occurs gradually increasing drowsiness, finally ending in coma. The duration of the lucid interval, and indeed its existence, depends of course on the rapidity with which the blood is poured out and also on whether there is a laceration of the brain accompanying the injury. When the haemorrhage occurs rapidly or when there is also laceration of the brain, the patient may not have rallied from the primary shock before the amount of blood poured out has become so great as to produce compression. When the compression is complete, the patient lies in a comatose con-