140 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. Dressing.—We generally apply either a gauze dressing or boracic lint dipped in boracic lotion for a few hours until all bleeding has stopped, and then fix a narrow strip of gauze along the line of incision with collodion; in cases, as in the lips, where the gauze gets readily soiled with saliva, it suffices to allow the line of incision to dry thoroughly and then to paint it with collodion. RESTORATION OF THE LOWER LIP.-This is most commonly called for when there is an extensive labial cancer and where practically the whole length of the lower lip must be taken away. Here, instead of making a quadrilateral incision (see Fig. 40) which would suffice to remove the growth when it has spread along the margin of the lip, it is better to make a V-shaped Fig. 41.—Restoration of the Lower Lip by means of Curved Incisions—a Good Method. Here the lip is removed by a large V-shaped incision aee. The incision ac is prolonged to b, and ce to d; these flaps are then dissected up and sutured as shown in B. The mucous membrane is sutured to the skin along the lines af and eg, and these form the margin of the new lip. If any raw surface is left at e, it can be closed by undermining the triangular flap of skin deb, or by a skin-graft. It is clear that there cannot here be the same direct drag upon the new lip by contraction of the cicatrices. incision, with the apex of the V at the chin (see Fig. 41), even though a con- siderable portion of the healthy lip be sacrificed in so doing. The result is a large triangular defect, which may be filled in one of the two following ways : In one method, the soft parts from the angles of the lip down to the reflection of the mucous membrane from the lower lip on to the gums are brought up to form a new lower lip, the mucous membrane being stitched to the skin on each side down to its point of reflection. From the apex of the V, curved incisions are carried downwards into the neck on each side (see Fig. 41, A) and flaps are raised so that the stitched edges can be brought into line. For example, the incision which was carried down the left side of the lip is continued downwards in a curve into the right side of the neck nearly as low as the hyoid bone, and is then carried upwards again towards the angle of the jaw. The PLASTIC OPERATIONS ON THE LIPS. A B