THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. 76 region accessible. The patient should lie upon the opposite side, with a sand- bag beneath the neck. A semilunar incision with its convexity upwards is then made over the region of the inferior curved line on the side selected for drainage. As a rule the incision will start from the middle line well below the external occipital protuberance—which is often very slightly marked in young children—and will reach as high as the superior curved line. The flap thus marked out is retracted, the inner portion of the complexus either cut through or detached from the occipital bone and the inferior curved line exposed. With a rugine the rectus capitis posticus minor muscle is stripped from its attachment, and the skull is then opened just below the inferior curved line and to one side of the middle line in order to avoid the sinus. A trephine may be used, but a medium-sized sharp gouge is better. This exposes the dura mater which generally bulges into the opening and does not pulsate. In children it is so thin that the cerebellum can be clearly seen through it. The dura is opened at the lowest possible point by a mere nick of the knife and then a fine blunt spatula such as the dura mater separator (see Fig. 17) is passed beneath the lower edge of the cerebellum and the latter lifted gently up. The result generally is a free gush of fluid, which continues to flow and to pulsate in the opening. The greatest gentleness must be observed in lifting up the cerebellum, and the spatula must not be thrust in too deeply or the important structures in the floor of the fourth ventricle may be damaged. Drainage is effected by passing an indiarubber tube (No. 6) through the hole in the dura and beneath the cerebellum, and a hole is made for it in the centre of the scalp flap, which is then sewn up with a continuous suture and the usual dressings applied. The drainage of the cerebro-spinal fluid for the first two or three days is generally very free and necessitates frequent change of dressings; the child also markedly improves. The great difficulty is to maintain the drainage, as the tube, if of medium size, soon gets blocked, and if large, allows the semi- fluid cerebellum to escape.