TUMOURS OF THE BRA! N. 93 a characteristic dull yellowish appearance, while the affected area gives a distinct feeling of resistance as compared with the healthy brain around. The removal of the tumour will vary much in difficulty according as it is situated upon the cortex or in the depth of the brain, and also according as it is encapsuled or diffuse-. If the tumour be not felt at once, a blunt searcher may be passed into the brain in its supposed direction to see if it comes in contact with any firmer tissue, and if so, the convolutions can be split with a brain knife (see Fig. 25) or a spatula carefully introduced at right angles to. the surface, so as to minimise injury to the vessels which run at right angles to the surface; then with the finger the tumour can be gently separated from the brain and shelled out. The bleeding, which is generally venous, and is due to tearing of the large veins which lie upon the surface of the brain, may be profuse at first; if it be at all alarming, pressure with a hot sponge for a few minutes will generally arrest it. Should any vessels of large size be divided, they should be tied or twisted. In the superficial and encapsuled growths it is generally easy to make out the demarcation between the tumour and the brain substance, and the former may be enucleated without much Fig. 25.—Horsley's Brain Knife. This is really a delicate spatula. damage to the brain. In the softer tumours it is almost impossible to decide, even with the aid of touch, which is tumour and which is brain. In any case the sense of touch is preferable to attempts to ascertain the limits of the tumour by a blunt instrument, and therefore the finger should be employed to work round the growth in all directions. When the tumour is found to be irremovable, it must be either left alone or portions of it may be removed. The latter procedure has little or no effect in retarding the progress of the disease and may even cause serious danger from haemorrhage, but in some cases it may be advisable; for instance, the bulging of the brain may be so great that the dura mater cannot be united, nor the skin flap properly stitched, unless portions are removed. When a growth has been partially or entirely removed, a cavity is left which will rapidly fill, partly with blood and partly also by expansion of the vascular brain sub- stance beneath. The bleeding generally stops on the application of pressure with a hot sponge, but in some cases it is advisable to pack the cavity for two or three days; in fact, some surgeons advocate that the cavity in the brain should always be packed with gauze. The bleeding, if troublesome, is most effectually controlled by gauze soaked in a sterilised antipyrin solution. A suture or two should be passed through the lips of the wound in the scalp where the packing emerges and the ends knotted loosely together; they are tied finally when the packing is discontinued, which is usually in about 48 hours. The objection to packing is that it must necessarily leave a hole in