300 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. CHRONIC INFLAMMATIONS. CHRONIC CATARRHAL RHINITIS. Causes.—This most com- monly results from repeated or neglected colds, especially in those who suffer from impairment of the general health or who are repeatedly exposed to sources of local irritation. Amongst predisposing causes a very important one seems to be a tendency to narrowness of the nasal fossae. Thus, chronic rhinitis is common in individuals with thin prominent narrow noses, such as the Jewish race. In children the affection is very frequently associated with adenoids and enlargement of the tonsils. Enlargement of the inferior ■or middle turbinates and hypertrophies or irregularities of the septum, cartilaginous or osseous, should also be sought for. The former are in most instances the result of catarrh, but when present they serve as prominent factors in maintaining it. Pathology.—The mucous membrane covering the inferior turbinate bone, the floor of the nose and corresponding part of the septum is swollen, so that the inferior meatus is almost completely obstructed. The membrane is usually of a greyish pink colour and sodden-looking; occasionally, but rarely, it is deeply congested. The inferior turbinate appears as a smooth, uniform and globular swelling. It pits very readily with the probe, as if it were a bag filled with fluid, and the application of cocaine causes complete •disappearance of the swelling, showing the absence of true hypertrophy. Symptoms.—The patient complains of a muco-purulent discharge from the nose and more or less nasal obstruction. Associated with this there is usually some catarrh of the pharynx and larynx, with expectoration of muco-pus especially in the morning, and interference with the speaking and singing voice. There may also be chronic inflammation of the Eustachian tubes and middle ear. Results.—If the disease persists, the nasal obstruction usually becomes more complete and permanent, true hypertrophy of the inferior turbinate supervening. This may lead to considerable trouble with the throat from mouth-breathing. Frequently the mental capacity of the patient is inter- fered with ; he suffers from headache and inability to fix the attention, and in time the general health may become seriously affected. Treatment. Local.—In the more recent cases it is often sufficient to prescribe a simple alkaline lotion for the nose, such as the following: R Sodii bicarb., grs. 5 Sodii bibor., grs. 5 Sodii chloridi, grs. 5 Glycerini, TTlxx. Aquam, ad Si- One tablespoonful to be added to two of warm water, and to be sniffed up the nose •every morning and evening, or used in any of the ways previously recommended (see p. 282). It is essential that the fluid should pass entirely through the nose into the throat and ■should return by the mouth.