326 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. in advanced cases the alee, columella or tip of the nose may be extensively destroyed. The disease may remain limited to the interior of the nose for years, but more usually extension takes place after a time on to the face, into the throat, or in both directions. Treatment.—If there be any doubt about the nature of the affection it is always best to administer anti-syphilitic treatment in the first instance. Should this fail, a large piece of the granulation tissue should be removed and examined microscopically to make certain of its tuberculous nature before any active treatment is adopted. When the diagnosis is definitely established, the affected parts must be thoroughly scraped away: for this a general anaesthetic is necessary. The post-nasal space must be firmly plugged with a large sponge attached to a tape, and then all granulations and lupous areas must be firmly scraped away under good illumination by means of a sharp ring-knife. The nose is then packed with iodoform gauze to arrest the haemorrhage. It is a good plan to remove the gauze two or three days later and to thoroughly cauterise all the affected parts with the galvano-cautery or with chromic acid. Under this treatment healing will usually take place, although fresh outbreaks are liable to occur. Combined with this treatment, arsenic should always be given internally in increasing doses; this drug does not seem to have quite the same effect upon lupus in this region that it has in lupus of the throat, but it un- doubtedly has a decidedly beneficial action; it should be given in doses of two to three minims three times a day after meals, gradually increased until ten or fifteen minims are being administered. At the same time tonics such as cod-liver oil, good feeding and change of air must not be neglected. In these cases also the thyroid extract, which enjoys so great a reputation in lupus of the skin, might be well worth a trial. RHINO-SCLEROMA. This is an affection involving both the skin and mucous membrane of the nose and thence usually spreading downwards into the pharynx and larynx. It is extremely rarely seen in this country; in fact the cases seen here are almost entirely imported from Austria or Russia, where the affection is not uncommon. The disease is usually more or less symmetrical, and, commencing as a sort of nodular infiltration, spreads until the whole of the nose becomes increased in size, the alas distended and the nostrils occluded, while the tip of the nose becomes broad and rigid. There is usually a little ulceration, and occasionally fissures appear in the growths. The disease is due to a definite micro-organism, a short, rather broad, encapsuled bacillus. Treatment.—Very little can be done. The parts may be excised, the cautery may be applied, electrolysis or chemical caustics may be resorted to. In the majority of cases improvement is obtained for a time, but a relapse invariably occurs when the treatment is left off.