AFFECTIONS OF THE INTERNAL EAR. 4'5 inflammation are present in the middle ear, but this rarely goes on to suppuration. Treatment.—The best treatment is repeated blistering over the mastoid region, and occasionally good results follow. If the case be of old-standing no treatment is of any avail. A similar affection may occur in the course of both typhus and typhoid fever, which may pass off during convalescence or may produce permanent deafness. This may be due to a peripheral neuritis. The treatment is similar to the above. 7. Boilermakers' deafness.—This affection is produced by the action of a continual loud noise. The terminations of the auditory nerve may apparently be paralyzed by over-stimulation in somewhat the same way as the retina is affected by sunlight. As the name of the affection implies, it occurs among boilermakers or in those following similar occupa- tions in which the constant noise of hammering is literally deafening, but as a rule it is only seen in those who have followed such occupa- tions constantly for ten or more years. The middle ear may also be affected from loosening of the ossicles and membrane by the continual jarring. Treatment.—The affection usually improves if the patient be seen in the early stages and consents to change his occupation. This is the essential point, but the administration of liquor strychnine (five to six minims ter. die.) will also be found of much service. 8. Senile deafness.—This may be partly due to senile changes in the tympanic cavity, but is usually chiefly dependent upon labyrinthine affection. The deafness may commence at any age after about 45 and is usually progressive but may be arrested temporarily. Obviously treatment other than that directed to the maintenance of the general health is out of the question. AFFECTIONS OF THE AUDITORY NERVE AND CENTRES. Any lesion involving the auditory track from the centre to the termina- tion of the nerve will of course result in deafness with or without impaired power of equilibration. The auditory nerve is not uncommonly involved in meningitis, especially in the simple basic form and in cerebro-spinal meningitis, and if recovery occurs the patient may be left completely deaf. In some cases the inflammation may actually spread from the meninges along the sheath of the auditory nerve and produce acute inflammation within the labyrinth. Again, tumours or gummata occurring along the course of the nerve will produce deafness, generally unilateral. In fractures of the base of the skull the nerve may be torn across or may be pressed upon by blood-clot or inflammatory effusion. Deafness may also arise from any form of brain disease, tumours or gummata, etc., affecting the centre, or from congenital lesions such as defective development of the