173 CLEFT PALATE. is detached from the entire edge, which should be of uniform thickness throughout. The strip is left attached at the apex, the knife is turned round and carried back and the paring continued to the tip of the uvula just outside the forceps (see Fig. 69). A similar procedure is carried out on the opposite side and then the strips are completely separated by paring the V-shaped end of the cleft in front. It is important to pare each edge of the cleft in a single piece, so as to ensure it being pared through- out ; if done piecemeal, some part may be overlooked and the thickness of the pared surface will be very variable. We consider that it is well to commence with the paring of the edges, although some recommend that this should not be done until the flaps have been detached, for fear of damaging the pared edges by the sponging neces- sary to clear the throat. This danger is however slight with a skilled assistant, and the process of detaching the flaps and paring the edges is much easier and more satisfactory if it be done as here recom- mended. The bleeding after paring the edges is very slight and stops quickly. 2. Formation of the muco-periosteal flaps.—An incision on either side of the hard palate running from behind forwards is made with a stout knife. It commences behind opposite and just internal to the last molar tooth and is carried forward parallel with the alveolar margin until it reaches up to the level of the apex of the cleft on each side in front.1 This incision is often followed by fairly smart haemorrhage, as the posterior palatine artery is in danger of being wounded. This vessel may sometimes be felt pulsating through the soft parts, and the incision is then planned so as to miss it. It is generally avoided if the incision be kept quite close to the last molar tooth. The knife must be held perpendicular to the plane of the mucous surface so as to avoid bevelling of the edges of the flap. If the haemorrhage be severe, sponge pressure may be applied for a few moments to check it, but it is best arrested by proceeding immediately to the detachment of the muco-periosteal flaps from the bone. The detachment of the flaps is effected by fine raspatories of Fig. 69.—Paring the Edges of the Cleft in the Palate. On the one side the edge has already been pared and the narrow strip of mucous membrane is seen hanging from the apex of the cleft. On the opposite side the paring is just being begun. The lateral incisions for raising the muco- periosteal flaps from the hard palate are also indicated. 'If the cleft be complete, i.e. if it extends through the alveolus, the incision does not go as far forward as the end of the cleft as otherwise the blood supply to the front end of the flap from the anterior palatine would be cut off. This leaves a small triangular gap in front when the flaps are approximated, and this is closed after the rest of the palate has united by prolonging the incisions forward through the free margin of the cleft anteriorly and turning in the little flaps thus formed.