41 INTRA-CRANIAL INJUR1KS. visitors or to talk, and an ice-bag, ice-cap or Leiter's tubes (see Fig. 1) should be applied to the head. The confinement to bed should be main- tained for about a week, because up to that time it is impossible to be certain that hemorrhage will not occur. During this time the cold should be kept applied to the head, the patient kept quiet, the bowels kept freely open by the daily administration of a saline purge, while the diet should consist of milk and should be restricted in quantity. From a pint and a half to two pints of milk daily will suffice in the first instance, and this may be gradually increased as the patient improves. As a rule at the end of a week the patient may be allowed to begin to get about and the chances of subsequent trouble are comparatively small. CONTUSION AND LACERATION OF THE BRAIN. In some cases the laceration of the brain of which we have spoken in connection with concussion is very marked, and this may occur with or without fracture of the skull itself. The injury to the brain may be just beneath the seat of the blow, or it may be on the opposite side of the skull ("contre coup"), and it may vary from a small tear to an extensive laceration of the cortex. The lacerations are most frequent about the convexity of the hemispheres, but they are also met with at the base when the brain has been violently jarred against the bony prominences there. Symptoms.—The symptoms peculiar to severe lacerations are chiefly those of irritation of the brain. The patient, after recovering from the primary shock or concussion, shows symptoms of irritation of the cerebral cortex, such as irritability of temper, muscular twitchings, irregular move- ments, extreme restlessness, etc.; the occurrence of these symptoms soon after an accident always leads to the conclusion that the brain matter itself has probably been damaged. Treatment-—The treatment of this condition is the same as that just described for concussion. In the first instance the concussion symptoms must be treated, and then great care must be taken during recovery to avoid excessive reaction and to diminish the risk of haemorrhage into the brain. There is no special treatment required for the contusion of the brain substance. The patient must be kept quite free from all disturbing influences, and in a good many cases the irritable condition gradually passes off and the patient recovers completely. COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN. After the symptoms of concussion have passed off, the patient may either continue well or he may again lapse into unconsciousness, from which it may be impossible to arouse him. This unconsciousness is due to compression of the brain, which may arise from various causes. Com- pression coming on a few hours after the injury is in all probability