INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES. 339 granulations. Sometimes large polypi are found in the cavity, and cysts, arising from the distension of the glands in the mucous membrane, are often met with, especially in the antrum. Changes in the bone, caries or necrosis, are also not uncommon, and sometimes new bone is irregularly deposited as the result of periostitis, giving rise to great roughening of the walls or even to large osteophytes. 4. The causes may continue in action. For example, the cavity may contain a foreign body which in the case of the antrum may be a carious tooth. In ozsena also there is a constant foetid and decomposing discharge from the nose which may infect a sinus, usually the antrum or sphenoidal sinus, and set up chronic suppuration. 5. One cavity may become infected from or may act as a reservoir for pus coming from another. Thus, pus from the frontal sinus or from the ethmoidal cells may enter the antrum through its natural opening or through a perforation of its wall in the vicinity of the infundibulum, and the ethmoidal cells may be affected in a similar way by pus coming down from the frontal sinus. This is more likely to occur if the free escape of the discharge be prevented by swelling or polypi or by cotton wool or gauze tampons. Thus, there is always danger in packing the nose for hemorrhage following operations for polypi associated with sinus suppuration. Occasionally, perhaps, infection may be spread by violent attempts at blowing the nose. 6. Lastly, sinus suppuration may be secondary to diseases such as tuber- culosis, syphilis, or malignant disease, causing caries or necrosis of their walls. These openings allow pyogenic organisms to enter the cavity, but fortunately are generally large and allow of free drainage, and therefore chronic suppuration from such causes is rare. Symptoms.—In the large majority of cases, the most prominent or the only symptom is the purulent nasal discharge. These cases, in which the opening from the sinus into the nose is free enough to allow the pus as it fills the cavity to overflow, are commonly described as "latent empye- mata." When the outlet of the cavity becomes temporarily obstructed acute symptoms, such as intense pain, swelling, tenderness, redness, and cedema over the site of the affected cavity and severe constitutional disturbance set in. In other cases, even of latent empyema, as the result of slowly progressive caries or necrosis the pus may find its way through the walls of the sinus and infect the surrounding tissues. Thus, pus from the antrum may burst outwards and cause an abscess in the soft tissues of the cheek, upwards and give rise to an orbital abscess, backwards into the spheno- palatine fossa, or downwards beneath the muco-periosteum of the hard palate, etc. From the frontal sinus the pus may find its way out externally, usually at the inner angle of the orbit, or perforation may take place through the posterior wall of the cavity giving rise to meningitis or abscess in the frontal lobe of the brain. Similarly, pus from the ethmoidal cells may give rise to an abscess in the inner wall or floor of the orbit or to