THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FAR. 392 gradually encroach on the opening. In neglected and tuberculous cases the edges of the perforation are commonly thickened and granular. The mucous membrane of the tympanum is reddened, thickened and velvety in appearance. In old-standing cases it may in part become covered by squamous epithelium and then appear dry and shiny. The drum or its remains may be extensively adherent to the inner wall of the tympanum and these adhesions may form large pockets in which the discharge accumu- lates. In chronic suppuration other than tubercular the first changes invariably occur in the mucous membrane, but in long-continued suppura- tion the bone is commonly affected secondarily. Small granulations are often seen in the tympanum, especially in tuberculous disease and in neglected cases. Should a granulation become greatly enlarged and pedunculated, it forms a polypus, and these are most commonly met with springing from the inner wall of the tympanum, from the edge of the drum or from the inner part of the external auditory meatus. In the earlier stages polypi consist of simple granulation tissue, but later they may undergo myxomatous degeneration or become hard and fibrous, and the surface may be covered by epithelium. It is most probable that polypi are generally associated with changes in the underlying bone, and, if granulations or polypi constantly recur after removal, the existence of bone disease is certain. Cartes and necrosis,—The ossicles have a very precarious blood supply, and therefore when the attic is involved in chronic suppuration they are very liable to become necrosed, the incus being most frequently attacked. Caries of the ossicles is also common, the neck or head of the malleus being most often affected, except in tubercular cases, when there may be a deposit of tubercle in any part of the bones. The temporal bone may also be attacked by caries, or more rarely a small sequestrum may form. The outer wall of the attic is most commonly affected and may be completely destroyed, leading to a large communication between the attic and the external auditory meatus above the membrana tympani. In disease of the antrum the plate of bone forming the posterior wall of the external auditory meatus and separating that canal from the antrum may be destroyed. The inner wall of the tympanum is rarely affected except in tuberculous disease. The roof of the tympanum is more commonly destroyed and leads to a large perforation into the middle fossa. Facial paralysis from involvement of the nerve is rare, but may occur when necrosis of the aqueduct of Fallopius or some developmental anomaly has left the facial nerve exposed. Cholesteatoma.—This peculiar condition occurs only in very chronic cases and when the perforation of the drum is near its margin or situated in Shrapnell's membrane. The squamous epithelium lining the external auditory meatus apparently extends through the opening in the membrana tympani, and rapidly proliferates and desquamates. As a result large masses