THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LARYNX. FUNCTIONAL PARALYSIS. Functional aphonia depends on inefficient action of any of the muscles involved in phonation; and bilateral paralysis of these muscles is almost invariably due to hysteria. The affection occurs chiefly in young women, especially if anaemic or phthisical, and is rare in children and men except as a sequel of acute laryngitis. When seen in men, it usually follows great mental excitement or hardship or a severe illness, and is due chiefly to paresis of the thyro- arytenoidei interni. The affection is commonly preceded by laryngitis, the whispering voice, adopted because of the pain or difficulty in phonation while the vocal cords are inflamed, persisting after they have regained their normal condition. In other cases the aphonia comes on suddenly without any cause and is often intermittent. Rarely there is complete loss of articulation—functional mutism. In the commoner form, paralysis of the crico-arytenoidei laterales, the vocal cords remain far apart during phonation. In paralysis of the arytenoideus proprius alone, a triangular gap is left between the cords posteriori)-. In paralysis of the thyro-arytenoidei interni there is an elliptical space between the cords and their edges appear slack and vibrate freely. Treatment.—The cases following an attack of laryngitis must be treated for a time as described under chronic laryngitis (see p. 428), the affection often being the result of local muscular weakness. As a rule a successful result is obtained. The purely hysterical cases require both constitutional and local treatment. Constitutional Treatment.—This consists in searching for and remedying any weakness which may be present; anaemia and digestive troubles especially must be enquired into. General debility must be met by the administration of tonics, such as strychnine, change of air and especially a sea voyage. In the severer cases the Weir-Mitchell treatment (see Part IV., p. 145) may be required. Those subject to recurrence of the affection, and especially if professional voice-users, should have lessons in voice-production. In many of these cases also the chest expansion in breathing is very deficient and regular breathing exercises, by which the patient is taught to distend her chest thoroughly, must be carried out. Local treatment.—The best method is the application of strong astringents to the interior of the larynx by means of a brush. The solutions of perchloride of iron, etc. (see p. 428) are the most generally useful. Immediately after the brush has been removed from the larynx, the patient should be made to phonate loudly. The brush and the strong astringent produce a certain amount of laryngeal spasm, and, if the patient attempts to speak while this persists, he will usually do so in a loud voice. He should be made to repeat words rapidly until the voice is normal. This treatment should be repeated about twice a week. If the voice does not