FOREIGN BODIES IN THE AIR PASSAGES. 243 mirror if the circumstances permit. When the foreign body is a tooth- plate, the chief obstacles to removal are the sharp hooks projecting from it which catch in the tissues; these may be so firmly impacted that it is necessary to break up the plate with cutting forceps before it can be extracted. As soon as this has been done and the natural breathing has been restored, the laryngotomy tube may be taken out and the wound allowed to heal. No stitches should be inserted as otherwise emphysema is likely to occur. FOREIGN BODIES IN THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. Foreign bodies may enter the larynx from some sudden inspiration during swallowing, such as is caused by laughing or talking whilst eating. Sometimes the accident may occur during sleep. Artificial teeth are the most common foreign bodies in adults; buttons, sweets, fruit stones, and small toys in children. Sometimes the material entering the larynx may come from the stomach, as for example when vomiting occurs when a patient is drunk or under an anaesthetic. Symptoms.—A large foreign body may completely obstruct respiration and give rise- to most urgent dyspncea calling for immediate tracheotomy,, the removal of the foreign body being carried out subsequently. In any case its impact in the larynx excites sudden pain, violent cough and a fit of choking accompanied by intense terror. A fatal result may ensue, not only when the body is large enough to block the larynx completely, but also when it is not, as a result of the acute spasm it gives rise to. Should the spasm not be immediately fatal, it subsides after a time and the body may then be retained in the larynx, the trachea or the bronchi and pro- duce very few symptoms, of which the chief are a slight cough and a sense of discomfort. This may continue for a very long period, but as long as the foreign body remains in the air passages the patient is in constant danger of spasm of the glottis should it alter its position. A smooth, rounded body lodged in the ventricle of the larynx may give rise to no symptoms after the initial convulsive attack has passed off, but a sudden suffocative attack should always excite the suspicion of a foreign body, especially in children, even when no definite history can be obtained. If the body be sharp, it may cause haemorrhage, and the blood in the air passages may cause severe dyspnoea. In other cases inflam- matory swelling occurs in the course of a few days, with increasing dyspnoea. In other cases again, a small body, such as a button or a fruit-stone, may pass into the trachea, in which it may remain freely movable, or it may be drawn onwards and impacted in one of the bronchi, usually the right, tin: opening of which is larger and in a more direct line with the trachea. When the body is movable in the trachea, the patient, after the