METHODS OF EXAMINATION AND TREATMENT. steadies the patient's head and introduces the gag far back on the left side of the mouth. The surgeon then passes his left index finger back over the tongue until he feels the epiglottis and the laryngeal aperture. The tube attached to the introducer is slipped back along the finger until its tip is over the larynx; the handle of the introducer is then raised, the tube directed vertically downwards and carried sharply into position. The success of this manoeuvre is ascertained by the finger, and the tube is then detached by pressing down the button in the handle of the introducer and held in position by the finger while the introducer is with- drawn. The gag should now be removed and a short interval allowed for the child to recover and to see if the dyspnoea has been relieved. If the operation has been successful, the gag is again introduced, the silk loop cut and withdrawn, the finger meantime retaining the tube in position. For the success of this operation considerable dexterity is essential : it is by no means easy in a young infant to feel the epiglottis or to ascertain the position of the upper aperture of the larynx, while rapidity in inserting the tube is essential. No attempt should last for more than five to eight seconds, and if unsuccessful the surgeon must wait before making a fresh attempt, for if the operation be prolonged asphyxia may be produced. In any case tracheotomy instruments should always be at hand. Accidents.—While introducing the tube in cases of diphtheria a piece of the membrane may be detached and pushed down in front of it. In such circumstances the tube must be immediately withdrawn by means of the silk cord, when the membrane may be expelled, otherwise immediate tracheotomy may be necessary. Secondly, the soft parts may be lacerated, but this will never occur unless excessive force be used. The tube may easily be passed down the oesophagus, but this is of no importance if it be immediately withdrawn by means of the silk cord. While the tube is in situ the following accidents may occur :—It may become occluded by secretion or membrane when it is usually at once expelled by coughing and the dyspnoea may return unless the tube be promptly re-inserted. In some cases this accident persistently recurs and renders tracheotomy necessary. If retained too long in position the tube may cause ulceration. But the most serious result is the interference with deglutition which almost invariably occurs, the tube allowing a certain amount of food, especially liquids, to enter the trachea and set up coughing. The best plan is to give semi-solids or thickened fluids. Should these not be taken easily, the infant should be fed with a nasal tube. In some cases the tube has been swallowed, usually without any ill effect and occasionally the tube has slipped down the trachea. This latter accident is the result of using too small a tube and has almost invariably occurred in adults with stricture of the larynx which did not admit of the introduction of a sufficiently large tube. Removal of the tube.— The tube should always be removed as early as possible. To do this, a gag is inserted into the mouth and the left index