CHAPTER XXIV. CANCER OF THE LARYNX. Epithelioma may arise primarily in the larynx or may spread to it from the surrounding parts, such as the pharynx or the base of the tongue. When it is primary in the larynx, it usually starts about the base of the epiglottis or in the neighbourhood of the cords. In the latter situation it is generally unilateral at first, but later on affects both sides. It infiltrates the sub-mucous tissue, attacks the cartilages and, if situated near the posterior part, it invades the arytenoids and affects the pharynx over which it spreads rapidly. As soon as it reaches the latter region or penetrates the cartilages, glandular infection is very rapid, but, as long as the disease remains limited to the larynx, the glands may be unaffected. Symptoms.—These are often most distressing. There is first much hoarseness and cough, and, later on, dysphagia and excessive pain when the growth reaches the pharyngeal mucous membrane. Spasm and dyspnoea are common when one or both cords are implicated, and free haemorrhage is not infrequent. The death of the patient is generally due to septic pneumonia, but may occur from weakness or from asphyxia due to blocking of the air passages by the growth or by haemorrhage. Treatment.—This must be either operative or palliative. The latter is fully dealt with elsewhere (see p. 440), and the cases suited for it indicated. Extirpation should be performed whenever it is possible; the exact operation will vary with the situation and extent of the tumour. Excluding the cases in which the disease has spread to the pharynx or only affects the larynx secondarily (which will be dealt with in connection with cancer of the pharynx), there is the choice of three procedures: (1) Thyrotomy and removal of the growth from the interior of the larynx: (2) partial laryngectomy, or removal of one half of the larynx; and (3) complete laryngectomy or removal of the entire structure. The dangers of these operations are essentially those of sepsis, viz. cellulitis, septic pneumonia or acute septicaemia, with the additional risk of blood getting into the trachea and either causing asphyxia or setting up pneumonia