I IO THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. 3. Epiphora.—Epiphora, or the overflowing of tears, usually occurs in connection with fractures of the lachrymal bone accompanied by injury of the lachrymal sac, or, on the other hand, it may arise from fracture and blocking of the nasal duct. 4. Cellulitis and suppuration about the nose very rarely follow fracture of the nasal bones. Treatment.—Apart from the question of the complications, a fracture of the nasal bones calls for careful treatment because, if left to itself, con- siderable deformity may result either from flattening of the bridge of the nose or from lateral displacement of the organ, and these deformities are difficult to remedy at a later stage. The most difficult condition to rectify is displacement of the cartilaginous septum. Of the fracture.—In ordinary cases unaccompanied by displacement there is little or no treatment required. The first point is to be quite sure that there is no displacement—which the swelling is very apt to mask ; should none be present, the application of an ice-bag externally or even syringing the nose with ice-cold water to check the bleeding and the effusion will be all that is required. The patient must be specially cautioned against touching his nose or attempting to blow it. The patient often finds it very difficult to resist doing this because of the irritation set up by the fracture and the accumulation of blood. If there be depression of the bridge or lateral displacement of the nose, it is essential to replace the bones as soon as possible, and for this purpose it is well to administer an anaesthetic. It is not at all advisable to wait for the subsidence of the swelling or even for the haemorrhage to cease, because repair takes place with extreme rapidity, and the deformity, unless remedied at once, may be very difficult to correct at a later period. In the case of lateral displacement of the nose, the deformity is usually readily remedied by pushing the nose back into position. A little manipula- tion over the bridge will usually get the nasal bones into their proper relative positions, after which the nose must be examined to see that the septum is in place; if not, it must be put back. When the bones are replaced, there is no great tendency to subsequent displacement. No appliance for keeping the bones in position is required as a rule. The patient should lie on the side opposite to that towards which the displacement has occurred and a small ice-bag should be placed on the nose. This will check the effusion of blood and its weight will tend to keep the bones in position. The patient should be seen daily at first, and the surgeon should see that the displacement does not recur, and should remedy it at once if it does. In five or six days the bones will be fairly firm, but the patient should still be forbidden to handle or blow the nose. When the septum has been displaced, special attempts must be made to get it into position, and this is sometimes very difficult; as a rule this displacement does not occur in connection with the lateral dislocation. In some cases the septum can be pushed into its proper position by intro-