CHRONIC INFLAMMATIONS. 321 whether suppuration be present or not, although in the former case operation is probably associated with less risk and gives better results. The danger to life in this operation will also be more fully considered later. Experience shows that, if performed with moderate care, it must be very slight (in the writer's experience no dangerous symptoms have ever occurred) although the region is undoubtedly a dangerous one, and the blade of a forceps or similar instrument could be easily pushed up through the cribriform plate with the probable result of producing fatal meningitis or other cerebral complications. The inner wall of the orbit may be removed without producing other ill result than a temporary black eye. In one case, however, in which polypi were complicated by extensive accessory sinus suppuration an orbital abscess accompanied by necrosis occurred some weeks after the operation. Otherwise no ill results have occurred. The danger however must be borne in mind, and the direction in which such instruments as forceps are passed should be carefully watched, and no wrenching or tearing practised. A large ring-knife is probably the safest instrument to use in this region, and the operation may be completed if need be by a smaller ring-knife used with greater gentleness. The prognosis as regards recurrence of polypi after this operation as compared to that after the usual methods of removal is extremely good. Recurrence is the exception and not the rule, even in cases in which polypi have been present for ten or twenty years in spite of frequent operations. When successful, there will usually be seen a large dry cavity in the upper and outer part of the nasal fossa, lined by thin, adherent mucous membrane. If the finger be passed up into this cavity the bone will be found very firm and dense, and this sclerosis seems to be the natural result of cure. Should recurrence take place, the operation may be repeated, but as a rule recurrences are very slight and the growths may be successfully removed by the snare. In any case, a second operation easily remedies them. If the nose be not packed after the operation, or if the packing be omitted for a short time, or in rare cases even in spite of packing, numerous exuberant granulations spring up on all sides and look like a rapid and profuse recurrence of the polypi. In most cases however these are simply granulations, and will shrivel up and disappear spon- taneously if the operation has been thoroughly performed. In spite of them the patient states that he experiences great relief and that his nose feels quite clear; and usually after about two months the growths will have entirely vanished and the patient will be quite well. One other point may be mentioned as showing the necessity for this operation. If, in a severe case of nasal polypi, the growths be removed with the snare, the nose may seem almost clear and only a few small growths can be seen. However, in a week the nose is again full of polypi, and the same result follows a second operation; but, if instead of pt. v. x