THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. I24 should be passed through the tip of the tongue, so as to pull it forward and prevent the patient becoming asphyxiated during the operation. When the symphysis has been removed, the chief trouble afterwards is that the teeth in the upper and lower jaws do not correspond to one another, and the patient will ever afterwards be unable to masticate his food properly. The teeth in the lower jaw, being on a plane posterior to those in the upper, are also very liable to seriously incommode the action of the tongue. Hence, after removal of the symphysis, the divided ends of the jaw should on no account be wired together, as is often suggested, but, on the contrary, an attempt should be made to keep the divided ends apart, so as to preserve the normal contour of the jaw as much as possible. This is a very difficult thing to do, but the importance of it is so great as to render the attempt well worth while. One plan is to interpose between the divided ends a rough model of the symphysis that has been removed, which may be fashioned rapidly out of box-wood, or more carefully from celluloid or some similar substance after a mould of the jaw has been taken. This is interposed between the cut ends of the bone before the lip is brought together, and may be fastened to it by silk around the teeth, wires, etc. The object is to keep the cut ends of the jaw separated until healing is fairly well advanced, when some more suitable apparatus can be fashioned by a dentist to permanently keep the jaws in that position. Another method of keeping the fragments of the jaw in position is by the use of a Hammond's wire splint (see Chap. XV.), provided that the patient has sufficient sound teeth. If this splint be used, the frame must be made of wire stout enough not to bend during the healing process; this method is not so good as the other. After-treatment.—Little dressing is required; at most a small gauze and collodion dressing may be applied over the incision in the neck, whilst that in the lip is allowed to dry and scab over. The silk loop which has been passed through the tongue should be left in position for a day or two, so that, should there be any tendency for the tongue to fall back, the nurse can pull it forward. For the same reason the patient should be kept lying well over on the side, so that, should the tongue fall back, it will fall to one side, and there will not be the same risk of asphyxia. As a rule, in three or four days the muscles become sufficiently matted together in the granulation tissue to prevent any risk of this sort. The mouth should be frequently washed out with antiseptic mouth-washes, such as sanitas (two drachms to the pint) or chlorate of potash (ten grains to the ounce).