84 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. Treatment.—The treatment of this form of epilepsy is essentially operative and consists in the removal of any cause of irritation of the cerebral centres. When there is a tender and adherent cicatrix on the scalp, excision of the scar followed by immediate primary union of the cut edges may cure the patient; indeed in some cases, its separation from the bone with a tenotomy knife has proved sufficient. In most cases however the lesion is deeper and it is necessary to open the skull. The precise spot at which the operation should be performed will be deter- mined by the group of muscles in which the symptoms originate (see Fig. 21); additional aid will be afforded by the presence of a scar on the scalp, an irregularity of the bone or tenderness on percussion. The procedure in these cases will depend upon what is found. Under any circumstances, however, removal of the bone with the trephine is the first thing and it is well to keep the portion of bone removed with the view of implanting it again if that be deemed advisable (see p. 24). When however the bone is thickened and inflamed, such implantation is not advisable, and the mere removal of the circle by the trephine will usually suffice to arrest the condition. When the dura mater is found to be thickened and adherent, the affected portion should be taken away. If the brain be adherent to the dura or to the bone, the adhesions should be separated. If there be a blood-cyst pressing on the surface of the brain, it should be removed. If there be a cicatrix in the brain itself over the centre in which the disturbance originates, that portion of the brain with the cicatrix should be cut away. Naturally such an excision if extensive will be followed by paralysis, and it becomes a question in any given case whether it is worth the patient's while having a paralysed limb in place of these epileptic attacks. As a rule it will generally be found that it is so, and further, it often happens that some substitution of function takes place and that the paralysis seldom remains permanently complete. As a rule in these cases the tendency is to do too little rather than too much, more especi- ally in the way of removal of bone, cicatrices or adhesions. A point that must be carefully attended to however is to avoid possible subsequent adhesion between the brain and the tissues over it after the operation, for this of course is very apt to occur when portions of the dura mater have to be removed, and, if it does occur, the epileptic symptoms will in all probability recur. Various means have been adopted to meet this difficulty, and the best plan seems to be to introduce between the brain and the skull a sheet of gold-foil (see p. 50); this seems to be non- irritating and to effectually prevent adhesions between the brain and the margins of the dura. Other materials have been employed, such as gutta- percha tissue or oiled silk protective, but after a time these materials become broken up and may act as irritants. The gold-foil seems to act well and to remain permanently in position, and in all operations, both for epilepsy and for the removal of tumours, etc., it is well to make use