102 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. most useful when the nodules are quite isolated, as they often are around or over the scars of previous operations, and where it is not worth while to subject the patient to the operation of excision. Ointments and plasters.— Of the various ointments which are employed for this affection, the chief is that known as UnncCs salicylic and creosote plaster, which has already been fully described (see Part II., p. 154). This method is most useful in lupus non-exedens, where the affection is not amenable to scraping and the deformity is not usually so great. The plasters may also be advantageously employed when a few isolated nodules of lupus are present, and especially when they are scattered over a scar which has been the seat of previous operations. Perhaps the most useful function of the plasters is that they may be used as a test to ascertain whether the disease has been completely eradicated. They are applied over the suspected scar, which if healthy is not affected, but, if the seat of lupus, shows breaking-down areas as a result of their action. Light-baths.—At the present time extensive trials are being made of the continuous application of concentrated light deprived of heat-rays to the lupous area, and the results so far obtained are certainly very remarkable. The question which still awaits an answer is whether the results thus obtained are permanent. There seems to be no question that the disease disappears in a very extraordinary manner, and the scar left is very good. Should the permanent results be as good as the temporary ones, this plan will pro- bably supersede all the others to which we have referred. It must, however, be some time before the method can come into anything like general use, as the apparatus required is costly, and can only be employed under very favourable circumstances. Drugs.—The old plan was to administer cod-liver oil, syrup of the iodide of iron, and so on, which are of no specific value. Improvement has been noted in a number of cases from the use of thyroid tabloids, and hence these may be employed in most cases. Their action is, however, extremely vari- able. Arsenic also seems to be useful in some forms of the disease, particu- larly in the nose. INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. There are no special points concerning the acute inflammations of the skin and subcutaneous tissues of the face. ERYSIPELAS.—The face is the most common seat of the so-called " medical erysipelas," in which no definite point of entrance of the micro- organisms can be made out. The principal point of importance is that erysipelas of the face has a great tendency to spread to the scalp, and there is always, therefore, the risk of acute inflammatory processes in that region. Treatment.—This does not differ in any way from that already described for the affection in general (see Part I., p. 218).