TUBERCULOUS AFFECTIONS. IOI (see Part I., p. 51) on account of the anatomical conformation of the parts. The larger the grafts are cut, the fewer are the lines of junction between them, and therefore the less is the subsequent deformity. We have found that the grafts almost invariably unite perfectly well except when the raw surface reaches the margin of the nose or the mouth, in which case the nearest graft may possibly slough. Scraping and cauterisation.—This is an excellent plan when the lupous area consists of scattered patches with small areas of sound skin between them. Excision is then practically out of the question as it would entail the sacrifice of a large amount of healthy skin ; moreover, in ordinary cases, when the affection is of very great extent, excision may be deemed inadvisable, and this method is then valuable. In the first place, all the soft tissue should be scraped away with a largish sharp spoon and then one of the smallest size should be employed to bore into any soft patches where the lupus nodules have extended deeper. The entire affected area must be gone over carefully step by step and every individual nodule must be scraped out. The bleeding is arrested by cold and pressure and the raw surface is then cauterised with pure nitric acid. This is painted on with a glass brush and allowed to soak in thoroughly. The best plan for introducing the acid into the small depres- sions left after scraping out isolated nodules is to insert into them a fine pointed glass rod dipped in the acid. Special care must be taken to cover the patient's eyes so as to prevent the fumes of the acid affecting them. As a rule the application of the caustic provokes bleeding from the larger vessels, and this necessitates precautions designed to prevent the acid being washed by the blood over the skin and burning it. Any bleeding thus caused should be checked by pressure with a sponge, and when this is done, fresh nitric acid is applied. The cauterisation should last for about ten minutes and then the surface may be thoroughly douched with a solution of carbonate of soda.1 This is poured over the cauterised area until all efferves- cence ceases, after which a piece of boracic lint dipped in the same solution is applied for a few hours, when it is replaced by boracic fomentations which are renewed frequently until the surface begins to granulate. Boracic ointment is then employed. When a large area is thus treated, the granulations should be scraped away at the end of about a fortnight and the raw surface skin- grafted in the usual manner. Results.—As a rule this method does not succeed in completely eradicating the disease. In the course of some months further nodules appear in the scars and necessitate further scrapings. Still, if the main part of the affection be destroyed in this manner, the spread of the disease and the deformity consequent on it can be readily enough kept under by treating fresh nodules in a similar manner as soon as they appear. Injection.—The injection of half a minim of undiluted carbolic acid into the substance of a lupus nodule will effectually destroy it, and this method is 1 The strength of this solution is immaterial; a handful of carbonate of soda (ordinary washing soda may be used) in a pint of water is most convenient.