DEFORMITIES OF THE SEPTUM. . 289 the opposite nostril, and by continuing to cut upwards a large piece of the septum is partly detached (see Fig. 108, A). This piece, still attached along its upper edge, is left hanging as a large valve over the per- foration. Now, by passing the finger down the obstructed nostril, this hanging piece of the septum is forced through the perforation, and its edges, catching on the margins of the opening, will prevent its return (see Fig. 108, B). In such cases not only will the obstructed nostril be freed, but the septum will be brought almost into the middle line, and healing will take place without the production of a permanent perforation. The after-treatment consists simply in packing the nostrils for a few days, and in subsequent irrigation until healing is complete. In a very narrow nose this operation is impracticable. The best method then is to saw off the most prominent part of the apex of the deflected portion and then, having produced a perforation, to forcibly straighten the septum. This may require considerable force and the septum Fig. iog.—Delstanche's Nasal Clamf for Deflected Septum. may in part be fractured. To straighten the septum Delstanche's nasal clamp (see Fig. 109) is the most useful instrument, or if it should not be sufficiently strong, the septum may be first broken up by Smith's or Ashe's cutting forceps and then Delstanche's instrument may be introduced and left in situ for 1-2 days. With care this operation usually gives a satis- factory result, but it not uncommonly produces a permanent perforation of the septum. After the clamp has been removed, the nostril should be packed for from ten to fourteen days with strips of gauze which act as a splint to the septum. Rubber plugs and other nasal splints usually give rise to a great deal of discomfort and have no special advantages. (2) The removal of horizontal spurs or ridges.—These, if small and not too close to the floor of the nose, may be most easily removed by a spoke- shave. This operation is extremely easy and quick, may be performed under gas or local anaesthesia, and is suitable for all cases in which only a small piece not containing bone requires to be removed. When the anterior cartilaginous part of the septum alone is affected all that is required is to remove the projecting part with a sharp probe-pointed knife, and this can pt. v. t