CUT THROAT. 241 restlessness; morphine as a rule is objectionable as it increases rather than diminishes this. As much nourishing food as possible should be given and, unless the patient be extremely weakly, it is well for the first few- days to confine its administration to the rectum, enemata containing half an ounce of brandy and two ounces of peptonised meat juice being given alternately with zyminised suppositories at two-hourly intervals. As the patient begins to recover, food may be administered by the mouth, but the question whether this may be given in the ordinary way or whether a stomach tube should be used will depend very largely upon the conditions present. When the superior laryngeal nerve has been injured, or when there is extensive damage about the base of the tongue, feeding should always be carried out through a stomach tube and great care must be taken to see that the tube does not pass into the larynx. Should there be any doubt on the point, as there may be when no tracheotomy tube has been used, it is well to run a few drops of boracic lotion through the tube after its introduction and before food is given ; should the tube be in the air passages, cough will be at once excited, and no harm will be done by the introduction of the boracic lotion. 3. Of complications.—Septic pneumonia—Once this affection has set in, the chances of doing any good are very slight indeed, but the treatment should be conducted on medical lines, and will consist mainly in the administration of concentrated and nutritious food and free stimulation by alcohol, ether, strychnine, etc. The patient should be propped up into the sitting position and large jacket-poultices applied to the affected side of the chest. Cellulitis of the neck.—Free incisions must be made wherever necessary, but care should be taken in planning them and in arranging the dressing to prevent as far as possible any entrance of septic material into the air passages. The treatment of the other sequela?, such as aerial fistula, stenosis of the larynx, etc., will be subsequently referred to. pt. v. Q