THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. in most cases, on evacuating the pus, degenerated blood-clot is found in the abscess cavity. Symptoms.—The usual history is that the child receives a severe blow on the nose, followed by bleeding and nasal obstruction. The acute symp- toms soon subside, but in a few days the nose becomes hot, swollen, painful, and completely obstructed. On looking into the nasal fossae they are seen to be completely filled by a symmetrical, bright red, tender, fluctuating swelling over the cartilaginous part of the septum. The whole end of the nose is frequently reddened, swollen, and tender. Treatment.—This consists in evacuating the pus, and it is advisable to make a free incision on each side of the septum. This is commonly all that is required, but if the pus re-accumulates, the best plan is to snip out a small piece of the abscess wall on one side. This is quite easy and effectual, and does no harm. On the other hand, it is difficult to secure drainage by packing the cavity or to fix in a drainage tube except by passing it quite through the septum, which is liable to lead to a permanent perforation. As a rule, these cases do well, and recovery is complete within a week; but in a few, and especially in those in which the abscess has been present for some days unopened, necrosis of the cartilage occurs and leaves a permanent perforation. Also in the majority of traumatic cases there is some subsequent deformity of the septum or nose, which is probably due rather to the original trauma than to the abscess. As soon as the abscess has healed, an attempt may be made to remedy this by packing the nose on either side with a pad of gauze, or with an india-rubber splint. CONGENITAL MALFORMATIONS OF THE NOSE. Congenital malformations of the nose leading to partial or complete occlusion of one or other of the nasal fossae are very uncommon. One or both of the posterior nares may be completely obstructed usua fly by means of a web, and more rarely by bone; anteriorly a more or less com- plete web is occasionally found at the junction of the vestibule with the mucous membrane proper. Treatment.—The best method is to destroy the web-like obstruction thoroughly by means of the galvano-cautery and subsequently to keep the opening packed until healing is established. Should the occlusion be bony nothing can be done. COLLAPSE OF THE AL/E NASI. This condition in a slight form is not at all infrequently met with in connection with post-nasal growths or other causes of nasal obstruction in the young, and sometimes with polypi or hypertrophied turbinates, etc., in adults. When these essential causes of the nasal obstruction have been