NEW GROWTHS OF THE PAROTID GLAND. [91 to preserve the nerve will almost certainly end in recurrence of the growth. Excision of the parotid gland—As a preliminary step, a temporary liga- ture should be passed around the common carotid artery, which may be tightened during the operation if necessary. Pulling on this ligature will control the bleeding temporarily, and the thread can be removed at the end of the operation. The shoulders should be raised and the head turned to the opposite side and allowed to fall back. A curved incision is then made from a point midway between the mastoid process and the condyle of the jaw, extending downwards parallel to the ramus of the jaw around the angle and forwards nearly to the anterior border of the masseter. The incision is continued upwards just in front of the ear to the junction of the zygoma with the malar bone, and then curved forwards along the latter. This flap of skin and fat must be turned forwards over the face. If the gland extends downwards into the neck to any extent, it is well to add an incision along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid from the upper vertical part of the incision. The lower and posterior part of the gland should then be first gradually lifted from its bed. This can usually be done by dividing the deep fascia at the anterior border of the sterno- mastoid muscle, gradually separating the tissues with the handle of the knife and pulling the gland forwards. After a time the external carotid artery is exposed as it passes through the gland, and this vessel should be clamped and divided. The facial nerve enters at the posterior margin and divides into two main branches, the temporo-facial and the cervico-facial, and should be saved as long as possible, but it is usually out of the question to retain any part ultimately. The deeper lobules which pass between the mastoid process and the ramus of the jaw and between the internal and external pterygoid muscles are best enucleated with a dis- sector, great care being taken to avoid injury to veins which might be a source of very considerable difficulty and even danger. The shelling-out of the deeper part of the gland is helped by pulling the jaw as far for- wards as possible. The final removal of the gland is quite easy, as the anterior part is superficial. The divided end of Stenson's duct should be ligatured with catgut, the bleeding points secured, and then the wound stitched up. As a cavity is very likely to be left, it is well to put in a drainage tube.