261 CANCER OF THE LARYNX. are then determined upon. These will depend upon the size and situation of the growth, but if this be limited to one side of the larynx and not firmly adherent to the cartilages, an internal operation will often suffice. Under these circumstances an incision should be made through the mucous membrane at some little distance around the growth and carried down to the cartilage. The perichondrium is then raised with an elevator and the diseased area removed. W hen the disease is limited to the vocal cords and has not penetrated to the cartilages, it is not absolutely necessary to strip off the perichondrium, but this does no particular harm and makes the result more certain. The bleeding is usually comparatively slight and stops on pressure. After it has been arrested, the sponge is removed from above the Hahn's cannula, which by this time will have swelled sufficiently to block the trachea, and it is well to leave the cannula in position for a few hours until the oozing has entirely stopped. The two halves of the thyroid cartilage must be united accurately by catgut stitches. This is generally easy and there is little or no tendency to displacement afterwards. The skin incision is then completely closed and the patient put back to bed. The Hahn's cannula is retained for six or eight hours, when it is replaced by an ordinary tracheotomy tube, which may as a rule be left out after 24 hours and the wound then allowed to close. Unless the incision goes through the arytenoids or the aryteno-epiglottidean folds, the patient can swallow quite well and may be fed by the mouth without difficulty. There is often considerable coughing during healing, but this passes off, and the result is usually very satisfactory. The patient may sit up at the end of a week. UNILATERAL LARYNGECTOMY.—Should the disease infiltrate extensively and attack the cartilage but be still limited to one side, one half of the larynx should be removed. This operation involves much greater risk to the patient than does complete laryngectomy, done as recom- mended on p. 263, on account of the free communication between the pharynx and trachea; therefore, should there be the least doubt as to the limitation of the disease, the complete operation should be chosen. Transverse incisions are added to the vertical one, one over the lower border of the cricoid and the other over the thyro-hyoid membrane, and the flap marked out is raised, the perichondrium being lifted with it except when the cartilage is obviously diseased. This displays the outer surface of the thyroid and cricoid cartilages. The latter is then divided in the middle line in front with scissors, and the separation is carried backwards so that the oesophagus below and pharynx above are detached from the posterior surface. The cricoid is then split behind and the separation is effected above in the neighbourhood of the aryteno-epiglot- tidean folds. The surgeon must be careful not to leave disease behind, but at the same time he must avoid encroaching too far on the mucous membrane of the pharynx. The detachment is best effected with blunt-