246 THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. some little time so as to keep the lips of the incision widely apart, in the hope that the body may be coughed up. (c) Of foreign bodies in the bronchus.—Should the foreign body be evidently impacted in the bronchus, immediate steps should be taken to remove it. This should if possible be done at the time the tracheotomy is performed. The situation of the body may often be detected by means of a long probe, and attempts may be made to gently insinuate the blades of a long, fine pair of forceps between it and the wall of the bronchus. Sometimes a probe bent into a hook insinuated past it may succeed in dislodging the body, which is then expelled through the tracheotomy opening. In some cases removal may be facilitated by extending the incision into the trachea downwards through the isthmus of the thyroid as low as possible; it is always well to do this before abandoning the operation, in cases seen immediately after impaction. When it is found quite impossible to displace the foreign body, the case may be left alone for some time in the hope that the inflammatory process going on around it may cause it to become loosened, a large tracheotomy tube being meanwhile introduced into the wound. The foreign body may be situated so low down that it evidently cannot be removed through a tracheotomy opening (as may be shown by a radiograph) and attempts have been made to remove it by incisions through the thoracic wall. When it is impacted fairly high up, a por- tion of the sternum has been removed or this bone has been split and the two halves pulled asunder so that the bronchus can be opened from the front. Attempts have also been made to get at the body from behind after resecting portions of the ribs, but these have usually failed. In some cases empyema has resulted, the pus in the pleural cavity communicating with the foreign body in the bronchus; should this be the case, attempts may be made, after resection of one or more ribs, to reach the foreign body from the outside of the chest. We have had a very satisfactory case of this kind in which a boot-button was extracted Fig. 82.—Goldinc-Bird's Tracheal Dilator.