219 MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE UPPER JAW. clamped, and the condition of the surface inspected, any remains of the upper jaw or portions of the tumour being clipped away. The bleeding chiefly comes from the pterygo-maxillary fossa, and for the most part stops on pressure; if vessels of any size bleed they can be tied. After having made quite sure that the whole tumour has been removed and that the bleeding has been arrested, the raw surface should be thoroughly sponged with a solution of chloride of zinc (40 grs. to the oz.), and, for a few hours at any rate, the cavity should be stuffed with iodo- form gauze. The ends of the gauze should be brought out at the angle of the mouth and tied together with a piece of silk, which is then fastened around the ear. The flap is brought into position and carefully sutured, the best material to use being silkworm-gut at the angles, with intermediate stitches of horsehair. Care must be taken to see that the red line of the lip is properly united on the two sides • it should be turned outwards and the mucous membrane carefully stitched up as far as the nostril so as to obtain union of the mucous surface. If this be omitted the raw surface may get adherent to the divided margin of the alveolus, and imperfect movement of the upper lip will result. The patient is then put back to bed and well propped up so as to diminish the risk of haemorrhage and the possibility of blood passing into the larynx. Difficulties mid dangers.—The principal danger in this operation is con- nected with the loss of blood, and every care must be taken to see that the haemorrhage is checked as quickly as possible. For this purpose sponge pressure associated with cold douching of the face answers best. Some surgeons advise that in cases where the tumour is very vascular a pre- liminary tracheotomy should be performed and the pharynx plugged. We have not yet met with a case in which we have thought it necessary to do this, but of course it is quite likely that, when the operation is done for a very extensive tumour that spreads far back, such a procedure would be advisable. There is remarkably little shock accompanying the operation and in the majority of cases the wound heals without any complications j in fact, out of a considerable number of these operations we have not lost a single case. Patients, however, who are very feeble or advanced in age may succumb, and a similar result may happen where septic cellulitis or erysipelas attacks the wound or where putrid material has passed down the air passages and given rise to septic pneumonia. As a rule, however, the cavity left is so widely open that the discharge escapes freely, while the application of the chloride of zinc solution after the operation and the subsequent sprinkling of the wound with iodoform protects the tissue for two or three days at least from septic troubles. .lfter-treatmtnt.^'\'\^ stuffing introduced at the time of the operation should be removed within 24 hours at latest and in the majority of cases should not be re-inserted. The wound should be frequently washed out by spraying the cavity from the mouth or nostril with boro-glyceride or sanitas, and the patient should wash out the mouth repeatedly with these antiseptic