THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. 132 either a fine catgut thread can be inserted in either side to form a landmark in the sub- sequent suturing of the wound, or a cross-cut can be made in the skin. " The skin flap must be carefully protected by a few layers of purified gauze during the operation, and not unnecessarily handled, or exposed to pressure or rough manipulation. It is better to avoid retractors in order to hold it out of the way, and its temporary fixa- tion by a catgut suture to the upper part of the chin will be found beneficial. The anaesthetist should prevent any chloroform dropping on the under surface of the flap, and not allow any part of his apparatus to touch it. Particular stress is laid upon these details, as it is most important not only to maintain asepsis and obtain primary union, but also to leave as little trace of the surgeon's work as possible. After raising the flap .... probably the transverse facial vessels will need ligature. " Section of zygoma and coronoid process, and detachment of masseter and temporal muscles.—The zygoma is now exposed by means of suitable raspatories and periosteum detachers through an incision along its course. Two holes are drilled at the root of the zygoma, and two also anteriorly through the zygomatic process of the malar bone. This is best accomplished by a fine drill driven by a dynamo. The drill used should be of such a size that the perforation in the bone may cany wire of gauge No. 22, and the holes should be about one-third of an inch apart. The bone is then divided between them with a fine saw, and in such a way that the anterior saw-cut is directed obliquely downward and forward, tjie posterior part of the zygoma being divided as near its root as possible (see Fig. 37). It is obvious that the bone can be drilled much more efficiently whilst the zygomatic arch is intact, and can be subsequently re- placed without difficulty, and maintained in position by means of silver wire. " The zygoma thus detached is displaced downward and backward together with the masseter; to facilitate this it will be necessary to completely divide the mus- cular fibres attached anteriorly to the malar bone. . . . The attachment of the fibres of the masseter muscle to its under surface, from which its nutrition is derived, must not be interfered with. . . . When the masseter has been sufficiently depressed consistent with the integrity of the important adjacent structures, and a little cellular tissue picked away, the coronoid process will be exposed together with the tendon of the temporal muscle, which passes further down on the inner aspect of the bone than on the outer. In Cases II., III., and IV. this process was drilled to provide holes for subsequent wiring, and then divided obliquely downward and forward (see Fig. 37). The detached bone was turned up with the temporal muscle, and the deep fibres en- croaching upon the ramus of the jaw carefully divided. But latterly I have questioned very much the advisability of attempting to gain osseous union of this process; for the temporal muscle attached to it is paralysed by the operation, and necessarily atrophies, with the result that very considerable impairment of the mobility of the jaw ensues. In my last case, therefore, I simply divided the coronoid without attempting to drill it, and drew it and the muscle upward out of the way, subsequently excising it and a portion of the tendon. " Search for the foramen ovale.—A certain amount of loose cellular tissue and fat will now present, under which will be found the external pterygoid muscle, running transversely backwards, to be inserted into the condyle of the jaw (Fig. 38) and perhaps below it a small portion of the internal pterygoid may be seen. Running superficially across the former muscle, between it and the jaw, the internal maxillary artery is usually found, passing into the spheno maxillary fossa between the heads of Fig. 37.—Section of the Zygoma and the Coronoid Process in Removal of the Gasserian Gan- glion. The dotted lines denote the saw-cuts, the dots on either side of them the position of the drill-holes. (Rose.)