144 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. as in the former operation, sufficient being removed to allow these flaps to come together and form the upper lip. The mucous membrane is stitched to the skin along the raw surfaces of the lip up to the apex of the V, the surfaces thus prepared are brought down to the level of upper lip and that part of the two incisions that curved below the alae of the nostrils is stitched together so as to make a vertical median line which will push down the tissues of the cheek and form the substance of the upper lip. The cheek is then brought in to the ala of the nose and stitched there, and in this way the defect will be very thoroughly repaired (see Fig. 45, B). This method is however most useful in cases where only the middle portion of the upper lip has been lost and where the lateral portions are still intact. In some cases additional advantage is gained by carrying the incisions outwards into the cheek from the point where they extend upwards around the ala of the nose, the incision being carried downwards and outwards parallel with the line of the lip. FOR MICROSTOMA.—As the result of disease or injury, the mouth may be contracted at one side, and various methods may be employed a b Fig. 46.—Dieffenbach's Operation for Microstoma. A small triangular flap is first dissected up, and then the angle of the mouth is split along the dotted_ line shown in A. The flap is now turned in around the new angle and sutured as shown in B. to restore it to its proper size. The older plan of introducing metallic rings through the cheek at the desired new angle of the mouth, keeping them in position until the sinus is covered with epithelium, and then splitting the cheek up to the perforation, does not answer very well, as this deformity usually results from disease which destroys the mucous membrane, the skin, or the whole thickness of the cheek, leaving only scar tissue behind. The method of Dieffenbach is the best under these circumstances and is done as follows: In the first place, the whole thickness of the cheek is split outwards to the point where the new angle of the lip is to be, and then, if the