387 AFFECTIONS OF THE MIDDLE EAR. of the Eustachian tubes and middle ear, which have stopped short of suppuration. Thus it is often associated with such conditions as chronic pharyngitis, post-nasal catarrh, and nasal troubles of all kinds. It is also very common in persons who have apparently suffered from adenoids in childhood, although the growths may have practically disappeared when the ear affection attracts attention. The tendency to many of the above conditions is hereditary and thus partly accounts for the belief in the heredity of deafness. Pathology.—The tympanic membrane is usually indrawn, and may be closely applied to the inner wall of the tympanum. Its folds, and especially the posterior one, are greatly exaggerated, and the handle of the malleus is frequently almost horizontal and displaced backwards; and thus may be concealed beneath the prominent posterior fold. The drum may be thickened in parts or extensively thinned and flaccid. The Eustachian tubes are invariably narrowed; the extent and degree of the stenosis may be most conveniently determined by means of the Eustachian catheter and the otoscope. The most marked changes in the tympanum are: 1. extensive adhesions binding together the chain of ossicles; 2. adhesion of the tympanic membrane to the inner wall of the tympanum ; 3. adhesions or fibrous thickening round the fenestra rotunda and the foot-plate of the stapes. The extent of these adhesions varies much : they may be limited to the ossicles, producing more or less irregular displacement, or the entire membrane may become adherent to the inner wall of the tympanum. Their extent and also the existence of flaccid portions of the membrane may be seen by watching the drum during inflation of the ear by Valsalva's method, or better still by the use of Siegle's pneumatic speculum. In a few cases serous fluid may be present in the tympanum where it is usually confined to some particular locality by adhesions between the drum and the inner wall. It is most common in the attic, producing a bulging of the drum in the upper and posterior quadrant. It is generally thin and serous, but may be a thick tenacious mucus. Symptoms.—Deafness is always present but varies considerably, especially in the early stages of the disease, being worse in cold damp weather, when the patient is tired, or is suffering from nasal catarrh, etc., and it may almost completely pass off in the intervals. A permanent and distressing symptom often noticed even before loss of hearing is severe tinnitus. In well-marked cases the deafness and tinnitus may produce considerable neurasthenia and mental depression which is often increased by the loss of sleep when the noise is severe. In the earlier stages the middle ear alone is usually involved, but in old-standing cases the labyrinth is also more or less affected. Prognosis.—A rough guide may usually be obtained as to the amount of improvement that is likely to result from treatment by carefully testing the effect of inflation of the middle ear. The greater the improvement, the better is the prognosis. Further, the prognosis is better in cases