METHODS OF EXAMINATION AND TREATMENT. 369 Passing from the tip of the handle of the malleus, in a downward and forward direction, is a cone-shaped reflection of light, the apex commencing just below and in front of the centre of the drum, where the light is most bright, and the base being close to the periphery, where the light gradually fades away. When the membrane is very thin, and especially when it is also indrawn, there is visible a small white or pinkish line parallel to the handle of the malleus and just above and behind it. This is the processus gracilis of the incus, and passing backwards almost horizontally from its lower end another line may be seen corresponding to the tendon of the stapedius muscle. In the posterior and inferior quadrant may occasionally be seen a deep roundish depression corresponding to the fenestra rotunda. The projection of the promontory near the centre of the drum may also be visible Fig. 132.—Vertical Transverse Section of the Ear. a, Promontory; 6, tym- i panic cavity; c, membrana tympani; d, head of malleus ; e, aditus ad antrum ; /, external auditory meatus. It must be remembered that the drum is inclined to the vertical at an angle of about 45° (see Fig. 132). When the membrane is indrawn, the short process of the malleus and the folds in the drum are more prominent; the handle of the malleus is considerably foreshortened, and the cone of light is absent or broken. To determine the mobility of the membrane, a pneumatic speculum such as Siegle's is required (see Fig. 133). One end of this fits tightly in the meatus while the other is closed by a glass plate. The air pressure within the speculum, and so within the external meatus, can be increased or diminished by alternately compressing or relaxing an india-rubber ball attached to its side by a tube. A piece of rubber tubing may be placed over the end of the speculum so that it may fit more closely into the external meatus. When the air is condensed, the membrane moves inwards, pt. v. 2 A