331 HAY FEVER. dangerous one, and especially so because in time it loses its effect. Stronger solutions are then resorted to and these may produce severe constitutional depression, insomnia, loss of appetite and mental disturb- ances. In spite of this, the patient may continue to use the drug because of the great temporary relief he experiences, and this may originate the cocaine habit. Its continual use also apparently aggravates the local con- dition and renders it far more obstinate to curative treatment. PAROXYSMAL SNEEZING OR RHINORRHCEA. This affection appears to be somewhat analagous to hay fever. The symptoms of the acute attacks are similar, the nasal condition is similar, but the actual exciting cause varies. Symptoms.—The symptoms in most cases come on regularly every morning, varying in intensity, sometimes lasting half an hour, sometimes five or six hours; sometimes the patient has two bad attacks a day, or may pass three or four days without experiencing an attack. The affection is usually worse in the winter and in damp, cold weather. In other cases it varies according to unknown circumstances. Causes.—The exciting causes are numerous, varying in each instance. The attacks may be set up by inhaling ordinary dust, by various smells, such as those of roses, violets, etc., by the dust emanating from carpets or various fabrics, by draughts, by the change from a warm room into a colder one, by going out of doors, etc. This affection apparently has a tendency to cause hypertrophy of the mucous membrane of the nose, and is not rarely accompanied by disease of the middle turbinate and by polypi. Treatment.—The affection should be treated on principles exactly similar to those for hay fever, but as the disease is a much more persistent one, many of the patients are much run down, and consequently tonics are especially needed. If it can be tolerated, arsenic should be prescribed, but in many cases, it is first of all necessary to treat the digestive disturbances. Not a few of these cases seek treatment on account of redness of the tip of the nose, and aperients are then especially indicated; some of the natural aperient waters such as Apenta or Hunyadi Janos are the most useful. IDIOPATHIC RHINORRHCEA. The pathology of the cases included under this term is not understood. The affection consists of a constant or more or less intermittent dripping of a clear watery fluid from the nose, unassociated with nasal obstruction, sneezing or irritation. In many cases the source of the discharge is unknown; in some it is probable that the fluid comes from one of the accessory sinuses, where it first collects and then suddenly empties itself with a gush into the nose. In other rare cases the fluid comes from the arachnoidal space and is pure cerebro-spinal fluid.