8 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. been torn off, as for example when a cart-wheel has passed over the head or when the scalp has been cut in machinery accidents, it may happen that the bone beneath is fractured, or at any rate contused and soiled. The treatment for a fracture of the bone will be presently considered (see Fractures of the Skull). Where, however, as sometimes happens, especially in the injuries caused by cart-wheels, the external table of the skull is bruised and soiled without being fractured, it is well to chip away the obviously soiled surface with a chisel. The instrument should of course only go deep enough to take away the actually soiled area and should not open the diploe. Unless this be done, infection is apt to spread from this contused area and lead to very serious results. After the thin layer of soiled bone has been chipped away, the surface left may be touched with undiluted carbolic acid so as to disinfect it more effectually. Permanent hsemostasis.—After the wound has been thoroughly cleaned with a nail brush and strong mixture, any portions of soiled tissue clipped away and the contused edges pared, the tourniquet may be relaxed and the bleeding points tied. If there be profuse bleeding from several points, a sponge may be packed under the flap, and by pressing the sponge and flap against the skull, the haemorrhage can be arrested except at any given point where the surgeon is actually searching for the bleeding vessels. In some situations it is by no means easy to stop the bleeding. For example, in wounds of the temporal artery, where the fascia is divided, the vessel may retract under the fascia to such an extent that it is a matter of extreme difficulty to catch the divided ends. In fact, in some cases it has been found necessary to tie the external carotid artery in order to arrest the bleeding. This is however a very severe procedure and is not really necessary except when secondary hemorrhage takes place from the vessel. Under ordinary circumstances the proper procedure is to control the bleeding temporarily by digital compression of the trunk of the temporal artery as it passes over the zygomatic arch, and then to slit up the fascia and search for and tie the divided ends of the artery. Approximation of the edges of the wound.—After having disinfected the wound and arrested the haemorrhage, the edges should be brought together by a few interrupted sutures. The best material is probably silk- worm gut, which is firm, soft and flexible and at the same time does not absorb moisture and is not therefore likely to become a septic stitch. A drainage tube should be inserted at one angle of the wound, because it is impossible to be quite sure that the disinfection has been thoroughly carried out. If a large flap of scalp has been torn down so that the lowest limit of the separation is below the angles of the wound, the best plan is to make a small counter-opening through the centre of the flap at the lowest point and insert the tube through this. A large dressing should be applied over the whole scalp and fixed on in the usual manner. If at the end of two or three days it be found that infection has not occurred, the drainage tube should be removed and the