CATALOGUE OF THE COLLECTION OF HUNTERIAN RELICS EXHIBITED AT THE EOYAL COLLEGE OF SUEGEONS OF ENGLAND ON WEDNESDAY, JULY 5, 1893. COMPILED, WITH NOTES, BY JAMES BLAKE BAILEY, LIKKARIAN 01? THE COLLEGE. 1893. Store 32597 ✓ lbUniversity 3eg of Glasgow Library RED LION COUUT, FLEET STREET. 30114015952776CATALOGUE. FURNITURE Etc. The Furniture is placed along the North side of the Library. MAHOGANY ESCRITOIRE, with secret wells under bottom drawers. Property of Hoy. Coll. Surg. COMBINED TABLE and STEPS. Property of Boy. Coll. Surg. CONSULTING-TABLE. Presented, in 1893, by W. Hunter Baillie, Esq. CHAIR made from wood brought home by Captain Cook from New Holland in 1771. The wood was presented to John Hunter by Dr. Solander, the Naturalist to the Expedition. . Lent by Professor U/itene. This Chair was the subject of an interesting pamphlet written by Dr. Robert A. Goodsir, entitled " Only an Old Chair : its story as taken down in choice shorthand and done into English by D. E. A. G. M. 8vo. Edinburgh, 1884." TWO SIMILAR CHAIRS. Lent by Edmund Oiven, Esq. i24 BOOK-CASE. Lent by Professor Ohiene. This Book-case was sold by Sir Everard Home to Mr. Clift in 1821: at Mr. Cliffs death it came into the possession of Prof. Goodsir, of Edinburgh. For a list of the Books and MSS. in this Case see page 21. DISSECTING TABLE and CHAIR. Lent by St. George's Hospital. LOOKING-GLASS. Lent by Alfred Quekett, Esq. DINNER BELL. Lent by Rev. R. Owen. MUSEUM CABINET. Presented, in 1892, by the Widow of the late Thos. Taylor, Esq. CHAIR with two shut-up shelves in back. Property of Roy. Ooll. Surg. UPRIGHT CLOCK. Lent by Rev. R. Owen. ANTIQUE CABINET. Lent by liev. R. Owen. COPPER in which the Irish Giant, Charles Byrne, who was exhibited in London as O'Brien the Irish Giant, was boiled. Lent by Prof. Chiene, Edinburgh. This Copper was in Hunter's house at Earl's Court, and was sold there in 1866, when the house was pulled down (for Catalogue of the sale see page 15). On the death of Byrne in 1783, Hunter obtained his body and macerated it in this Copper. A photograph of the Copper as it stood in the house accompanies this Exhibit (see also p. 15). The skeleton of Byrne is in the College Museum.5 CHAIR MADE FROM HUNTER'S BEDSTEAD. Presented to the College by Frank Buclcland, Esq. A brass plate bearing the following inscription was affixed to the Chair by Mr. Buckland:— This Chair is made from the bedstead of John Hunter, born Feb. 14,1728, died Oct. 17 (sic), 1793; buried at Saint Martin in the Fields, Charing Cross ; re-interred, Westminster Abbey, 1859; was first vised by Dr. Wadham, President at the Annual Dinner, St. George's Hospital, Oct. 1, 1879. llie bed- stead was given to me by Professor Owen, F.E.S., etc. who writes: " This is a genuine relic of John Hunter, Mr. W. Olift bought it at the sale of the Furniture in Leicester Square; it is the frame of the bedstead in which John Hunter lay when brought from St. George's Hospital."—Frank Buckland, M.A., M.H.C.S., Inspector Fisheries, House Surgeon, 1851, SOFA ON WHICH JOHN HUNTER DIED. Lent by St. George's Hospital. "Whilst speaking at a meeting of the Board of Governors at St. G-eorge's Hospital on Oct. 16, i793. Hunter was contradicted by one of his colleagues. He immediately left oif his speech and in an excited state hurried to an adjoining room, where he fell into the arms of Dr. Eobertson and almost immediately expired. SMALL CLOCK. Lent by W. Hunter Bailhe, Esq. PORTRAITS. The Oil Paintings and framed Engravings are on the South and West sides of the Library, the unframed ones on a stand in the middle of the room. JOHN HUNTER, of Long Calderwood, East Kilbride, Lanarkshire, father of the Surgeon. Born 1660, died 1738. Lent by W. Hunter Baillie, Esq. WILLIAM HUNTER, son of the above, and brother of John Hunter the Surgeon. By Johann Zoffani. Property of Boy. Coll. Surg. William Hunter was born in 1718 : he was educated at Glasgow University and studied Medicine under Cullen. In 1741 he came to6 London and entered as a pupil of St. George's Hospital. He gave up Surgery lor Midwifery, m which department he had a very large practice. He built an Anatomical School and Museum in Great"Jennyu Street. His fine collection is now in the University of Glasgow. William Hunter died in 1783. This picture hangs in the Council Boom. WILLIAM HUNTER. BlJ Pine- Lent by W. Hunter Baillie, Esq. CAST OF THE FACE OF WILLIAM HUNTER, taken after death. Lent by Airs. Agnes Hunter. JOHN HUNTER : painted by Sir Joshua Reynolds in 1785. Presented to the College by Mr. Banks Hunter, 1817. This picture hangs in the Council Boom. Copy of Sir Joshua Reynolds's picture, painted by Mr. Muller in 1854 for the Roy. Coll. Surg. Miniature (Enamel) by Henry Bone after Sir Joshua Reynolds. Presented by Col. Charlewood in compliance with directions of his late wife, ilie daughter of John Hunter, 1838. Portrait after Reynolds. Lent by Rev. E. Owen. Miniature after Reynolds. Lent by llev. 11. Owen. Proof of Sharp's Engraving. Lent by E. W. Hennell, Esq. Unique engraver's proof before all letters, and before the lettering on the books hying on the table was engraved: an autograph of Hunter accompanies the picture. Three copies of Sharp's picture in different stages of Engraving. Presented to the College by Edward Code, Esq., 1871. Fine impression of Sharp's Engraving with Auto- graph Letter from Hunter attached. Lent by the ltoyal Medical and Chirurgical Society.JOHN HUNTER (continued). Copy of Sharp's Engraving. Lent by Bev. B. Owen. This is marked C. All copies so marked are printed from the plate after it came into the possession of Mr. Clift, who purchased it at the sale oE Sharp's copper-plates by Messrs. loster & Sons, June 4th, 1838. Photograph from Sharp, published by J. Hogarth, Haymarket, 1859. Portrait " sketched by permission from Mr. Sharpe's (sic) elegant print after Sir Joshua Reynolds, and engraved by C. Josi." Autotype of Sharp, published by Menzies of Glasgow. Lent hU D. H. Menzies, Esq. Smaller Engraving by Sharp : from Reynolds's picture. This is the frontispiece to Hunter's work on the Blood. In the MS. Account Book (see p. 12) under date October 8th, 1794, is the following entry : " Mr. Sharp, Engraver, £50 (for the small Head of Hunter to the Work on the Blood)." Another copy. Lent by tlie Boyal Medical and Chirurgical Society. This copy has underneath it, " ."For Mr. Eolph, with Dr. Jenner's Compts." Engraving by W. Holl from Reynolds's picture. Published by Charles Knight under the superintendence of the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge. Engraving by G. H. Adcock from Reynolds's picture. Published by Eisher, Son & Co., 1838, in Pettigrew's'« Medical Portrait Gallery,' Vol. I. Engraving by Ambroise Tardieu from Reynolds's picture. Engraving by John Shury from Reynolds's picture. Published by J. Shury, 1829.8 JOHN HUNTER (continued). Engraving by W. O. Geller from Reynolds's picture. Published by II. Benbam, 1836. Proof before letters of Mezzotint from Reynolds's picture. Drawn by J. Jackson, engraved by R. Cooper: from Reynolds's picture. Published by Cadell & Davies, 1814. Small Engraving from the top of a Certificate of a Hunterian School. Portrait by R. Home. Lent by W. Hunter Baillie, Esq. Engraving of Home's picture by H. Cook. Published by Fisher, Son & Co., 1838, in Pettigrew's ' Medical Portrait Gallery,' Vol. I. Portrait by R. Home. Lent by the Royal Society. The dog in tbis picture is mentioned in Phil. Trans, vol. 77. p. 257. Engraving by Corner : published in the 'European Magazine,' 1793- Engraving by J. Kennerley. Engraving by W. Read. Pencil Drawing taken by Sir Nathaniel Dance Holland, Bart., R.A., in 1793. Presented to the College by Capt. Sir Everard Home, Bart, 1849. Lithograph of above portrait by T. H. Maguire, published in 1849.9 JOHN HUNTER (continued). Statue, by Weekes, in the College Museum. Erected by Public Subscription, 1864. Photograph of above Statue. Cast of Hunter's Face taken after death. From Hunterian Museum, Bust by Flaxman from the Cast of Hunter's face. Executed by Order of the College, 1805. Engraving of the above Bust from Vol. I. of Palmer's edition of Hunter's Works. Bust by Sir Francis Chantrey. Executed by Order of the College, 1820. Plaster Cast of the above Bust. Engraving by H. Adlard of a Bronze Medallion taken in 1791. Published in the 2nd vol. of Hunter's 'Essays and Obser- vations,' edited by Sir Richard Owen. Medallion by James Tassie. Presented to the College by Charles Hawkins, Esq., 1870. Engraving by J. Caldwall, after a model done from the life by Mr. Tassie. Lent by J. J. Merriman, Esq. Copy in Wax of Medallion by Tassie. Stone Collection. Die of John Hunter Medal. This Medal executed in Gold to the value of Fifty Guineas, or, at the option of the successful Author of the Dissertation, of the said Medal executed in Bronze with an Honorarium of Fifty Pounds, is awarded as the Collegial Triennial Prize by the Royal College of Surgeons of England. Photograph of the Bust by Woolner in Leicester Square. This Bust was executed and placed in Leicester Square iu 1874. B"in JOHN HUNTER (continued). Photograph of the Statue by Pinker in the Oxford University Museum. Lent by the College Librarian. This Statue was presented to the University by H.M. the Queen and was unveiled by Sir James Paget, Bart., in June 1886. Original Drawing by Messrs. Clayton and Bell for the Memorial Window in the N. Transept of Kensington Parish Church. Presented to the College by J. J. Merriman, Esq., 1893. This Window was placed in Kensington Church by public subscription in 1877. There are four lights, one being to the memory of Sir Isaac Newton, another to Sir James McGrigor, Bart. The third and fourth bear the inscription :—" The Royal College of Surgeons of England and Various Members of the Medical Profession erect this Memorial to John Hunter, the illustrious Anatomist, Physiologist, and Surgeon, who was a parishioner of Kensington for 30 years. He died Oct. 16, 1793. Aged 64." ANNE HUNTER, wife of John Hunter. Bobn 1742, died 1821. By Masquerier. Lent by W. Hunter Baillie, Esq. Mrs. Hunter was the daughter of Robert Home, and sister of Sir Everard Home. She was married to John Hunter in July 1771. Mrs. Hunter published a volume of Poems, and several of her songs, including " My Mother bids me bind my hair," were set to music by Haydn. LADY CAMPBELL (AGNES HUNTER), daughter of John Hunter. Miss Hunter married Capt. James Campbell, Mho succeeded to tbe Baronetcy on the death of his father. DOROTHEA HUNTER, sister of John, married to Rev. James Baillie, mother of Matthew, Joanna, and Agnes Baillie. By Pine. Lent by W. Hunter Baillie, Esq.11 Rev. JAMES BAILLIE, married Dorothea Hunter, the sister of John. Lent by W. Hunter BailUe, Esq, The Eev. James Baillie was Professor of Divinity in the University of Glasgow. MATTHEW BAILLIE, M.D., son of the Rev. James Baillie and Dorothea his wife. By Hoppner. Lent by W. Hunter Baillie, Esq* Matthew Baillie was born in 1761: at the age of 18 he came to his uncle, William Hunter, in London. In 1795 he published his celebrated work on the ' Morbid Anatomy of some of the most important parts of the Human Body.' He had a very large practice which overtaxed his strength: he died of phthisis in 1823. Dr. Matthew Baillie married Sophia, daughter of Dr. Thomas Denman. JOANNA BAILLIE, daughter of the Rev. James Baillie and Dorothea his wife, and niece of John Hunter. By Halls. Lent by W. Hunter Baillie, Esq, Joanna Baillie was born in 1762 and died in 1851: she was the authoress of ' Plays on the Passions' and other dramas, and of several well-known poems. AGNES BAILLIE, daughter of the Rev. James Baillie and Dorothea his wife. By Hartman. Lent by W. Hunter Baillie, Esq. This water-colour drawing represents Miss Baillie at the age of 97. She lived 7 months after her 100th birthday. THOMAS DENMAN, M.D. Lent by W. Hunter Baillie, Esq. Born in 1733: he came to London at the age of 21 and attended lectures at St. George's Hospital. He afterwards lectured on Midwifery in conjunction with Dr. Osborne. Dr. Denman attained to a high position in his department of practice and died in 1815, aged 82. His daughter was married to Dr. Matthew Baillie.12 LETTERS, Etc. These letters are on the Stand m the Centre of the Boom ; the other MSS. are in the Glass Cases. EXTRACT from the REGISTER OF BIRTHS AND BAPTISMS for the Parish of East Kilbride in the County of Lanark. " 1728, John a lawfull son procreat betwixt John Hunter and * Paul, born Feb. 13th and baptized March 30th, 1728." Stone Collection. * This is blank in the original register. Hunter always kept his birthday on Feb. 14; and it is on this day that the Hunterian Oration is delivered at the Royal College of Surgeons. ORIGINAL ARMORIAL BEARINGS obtained by John Hunter from the Royal College of Heralds. Lent by Mrs. Agnes Hunter. MS. VOLUME, in the handwriting of William Clift, relating to John Hunter's household and estate. Lent by the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons, Glasgow. The account begins on Oct. 16, 1793 (the day of Hunter's death), with an item " To cash found in the house .£407 12 0," and closes on Mar. 21, 1808. There are also accounts relating to the sale of Hunter's Works and to the sale of Earl's Court in 1794. See Brit. Med. Jnl. 1890, vol. i. pp. 738, 865. ' A transcript of this Vol. is in the College Library. PRESCRIPTION WRITTEN BY JOHN HUNTER. Stone Collection. LITHOGRAPHED LETTER OF JOHN HUNTER giving his opinion of " Mr. Jones's Stays, and Machine in cases of Curvatures of the Back bone." Stone Collection. MODERN EMBALMENT by the late MR. JOHN HUNTER Stone Collection, This MS. is in the handwriting of Sir John Doratt, a pupil of Hunter. Sir John says : The embalming was « performed by Mr. Home, myself acting as Assistant: the Body was an Earl of Moira; all under the immediate direction of Mr. John Hunter."13 PORTION OF THE CATALOGUE OF HUNTER'S MUSEUM in his own handwriting. Stone Collection. This MS. consists of 38 pages and is marked by Clift " Oldest portion of Catalogue." PAPER ON HYDROCELE BY JOHN HUNTER, addressed to Count Bruhl, Dover Street. Stone Collection. The whole of the paper is in Hunter's own writing. The first page has the following note :—" Mr. Hunter's compts. to Count Bruhl: he has drawn out a short sketch of the difft. cases for the Hydrocele, which he hopes will be perfectly understood by the Surgeons in Germany. " Leicester Square, Saturday Evening." TWENTY-SIX AUTOGRAPH LETTERS FROM HUNTER TO JENNER. Presented to the College by Sir. James Paget. AVith one exception these letters are printed in Drewry Ottley's ' Life of Hunter' prefixed to Palmer's edition of his Works. AUTOGRAPH LETTER FROM HUNTER TO JENNER. Stone Collection. Also printed in Ottley's 'Life.' AUTOGRAPH LETTER TO DR. JAMES JOHNSTONE of Kidderminster and afterwards of Worcester. Presented to the College by Miss Johnstone. Sir, TIiis day I reed a Letter with a Pamphlet on Walton Water, " with thoughts on the use and diseases of the Lymphatic Glands, In a Letter to John Hunter, M.D., &c", and the letter was directed to John Hunter, M.D., London. Prom the initial Letters M.D. and some expression in the Letter and Pamphlet a * has arose for there is a Dr. John Hunter in London, and a John Hunter Surgeon, which las-t is myself. They came to Dr. John Hunter's & he being then at Brighthelmston is probably the reason why I did not receive them sooner. I have not seen Dr. J. Hunter, but I suppose, he, upon reading the contents did me the, honor to suppose it was meant for me : all this you will be able to put to rights. I this evening read your Account ko. and see a Dr. John Hunter mention'd with the other Anatomists, which I conclude to be me. I am glad to see there is another water similar to Cheltenham, for that spring is but small, & Dr. Smith (I believe) wrote principally that it might not be abused or wasted. Your theory of the Lymphatic Glands, I do not subscrib to. It was Dr. Hunter's some time before he died, to which I had then my objections : but these are only opinions : but 1 have a fault to unci with you in your quotations, when it is not * This word is illegible in the MS. C11 ©pinion but, factfl, You place Dr. William Hunter after Monro and Hewson. Dr. William Hunter was the founder of the System of Lymphatics being absorbents, Dr. Monro claims also the discovery, he may also have made the discovery, but Dr. Hunter must be alowed to be a discoverer, because lie was prior to Dr. Monro" many years, and therefore it is possible Dr. M. may have learnd it from Dr. II., but it is absolutely impossible Dr. II. could have learnd it from Dr. M. several years before Dr. M. discovered it. I dare say you will at once sec the force of this argument : and as to Mr. Hewson, ho made a poor work of what he had learnd from Dr. Hunter the time ho was his Physiol. Assistant and partner. However I see you are desirous to do justice to the school of Hunter, but you do it all away by giving the credit of the Lymphatics being the only absorbents to Sheldon and Cruikshanks: whereas if you had read Dr. Hunter's commentary you would have there seen, that I was the first who started the opinion and afterwards proved it by experiment, from whom all the others have coppied: nor is there a new opinion being made on the subject, further than that they are the absorbents and the only absorbents : therefore not any one of them have any right to originality. However: I like to see men thinking, and it must be said that yon have not been idle. Your works show your attention to the animal ceoonomy, which cannot be too much ascertained. I shall be glad to hear from you, as also the pleasure to see you in Leicester Square, if ever you come to London. I am, Dear Sir, Your most Obedient and Humble Servant, London, Oct, 31, 1787. JOHN HUNTER. LETTER TO "MR. BROWN" relating to a Child he had sent to consult Hunter. Stone Collection. LETTER to the Master, Wardens, and Court of Assistants of the CORPORATION OF SUR- GEONS, suggesting the formation of a Surgical Library. Stone Collection. HUNTERIAN CERTIFICATE. Lent by Dr. Arthur Davit's. This is to certify that Mr. Charles Hinehley diligently attended my_ Lectures upon the Practice and Theory of Surgery which I gave to several of the Pupils of St. George's Hospital. London, May 2nd, 1774. Jons Huxteu.MISCELLANEOUS. These Articles are in the Glass Cases and the Hunter Album. TWO VIEWS OF THE HOUSE AT LONG CALDER- WOOD in which John Hunter was born. Presented to the College by Sir W. Fergusson. RELICS FROM EARL'S COURT HOUSE. Lent by J. J. Merriman, Esc/. These relics consist of bones dug up in 18SG, drawings, and photograph. Also portions of the Mulberry tree and Ilex Hispan. which were growing there till the time of the sale ; and a brick from the oldest portion of the house. LETTER WEIGHT made from the mantelpiece in John Hunter's study at Earl's Court House. Lent by J. J. Merriman, Esq. PRICED COPY OF THE CATALOGUE OF THE SALE OF EARL'S COURT HOUSE. Lent by Messrs. Morley and Letts. " Earl's Court House.: nearly facing Earl's Court Station. Catalogue of the Old Building Materials of the above Historical Mansion, tiie Residence of tin- late John Hunter, the Duke of Richmond, and the Earl of Albemarle : com- prising .... the Historical Copper, Covering and Fittings used for the purpose of boiling the remains of the Irish Giant, &c which will be sold by Auction by Messrs. Jno. W. Morley and Letts—Feb. 10 and 17, ]88(>, al 12 o'clock each day." CUTTINGS from the 'Kensington Express' and from 'West London Observer,' giving an account of the Sale of Earl's Court House. PHOTOGRAPH taken during the Sale. Lent by Messrs. Morley and Letts:. WOODCUT OF EARL'S COURT HOUSE, from a drawing by Mr. A. Roberts, 1870. WATER-COLOUR DRAWING of the Copper at Earl's Court House, by J. Buckley, 1866.L6 WATER-COLOUR DRAWING of the Den at Earl's Court House. Presented to the College by J. J. Merriman, Esq-. PHOTOGRAPHS OF DIFFERENT VIEWS OF EARL'S COURT HOUSE. Stone Collection, PHOTOGRAPH OF THE LATE SIR RICHARD OWEN framed with wood from the Ilex Hispan. at Earl's Court House. Lent by J. J. Mtrriman, Esq. PHOTOGRAPH OF HUNTER'S CHAIR, framed with wood from the Old Mulberry Tree at Earl's Court House. Lent by J. J. Merriman, Esq. CATALOGUE OF THE SALE OF HUNTER'S PICTURES AND DRAWINGS. Lent by Messrs. Christie and Manson. " A Catalogue of the Genuine and Valuable Collection of capital Pictures and Drawings, of the Italian, French, Flemish, Dutch, and English Schools, by the most esteemed artists, in the highest state of preservation ; collected, with great taste, by the late eminent John Huntek, Esq., deceased ; comprising the Works of the following Admired Masters, viz.: Titian, Perdonoue, Spagnioletto, Guido, Zuccarelli, Canaletti, Rubens, van Dyck, Teniers, Porbus, C. Jansen. Laresse, Vernet, Le Nain, Cuyp, Euysdael, Backhuysen, van Goyen, Sir J. Reynolds, Zoffani, Loutherbourg, Barret, Stubbs, Wright, &c., &c, which (by order of the Executors) will be sold by Auction by Mr. Christie, at his Great Room in Pall Mall, on Wednesday, January the 29tb, 1794, at Twelve o'clock." CATALOGUE OF THE SALE OF HUNTER'S LIBRARY. Lent by Messrs. Christie and Manson. "A Catalogue of the Valuable well-chosen select Library of Scarce Books, the property of the late John Hunter, E-q., deceased, which will be sold by Auction (by order of the Executors) by Mr. Christie, at his Great Room in Pall Mall, on Saturday, February tho 1st, 1794, at 12 o'clock." The following extract from Sir Jaines Paget's Hunlerian Oration, p. 39, refers to the two preceding Catalogues :— " I am indebted to Messrs. Christie and Manson for the opportunity of reading the sale-catalogue of Hunter's collections and library. About 120 pictures were sold for ,£800. They were chiefly by old masters, including some of the best; and there were so\eral by Hunter's chief contemporaries, Hogarth, Reynolds, Loutherbourg, Zofl'any, and Zuccarelli. Among them, also, were some medical portraits, including one of Harvey, by Janssen. 'lhe engravings, including a large collection of Hogarth's, sold lor about £140; the ' curiosities' fetched about £200 ; and the books, including, I think, nothing significant, about £100. The proceeds of the four days' side, in January and February 1794, amounted to nearly £.1,300. Mr. Taylor, who was bo good as to show me the catalogue, thought that a similar collection would sell now for £10,000." Hoth these Catalogues have purchasers' names and the prices of the lots added.17 CATALOGUE OF SALE OF FURNITURE AT LEICESTER SQUARE. Stone Collection. " Catalogue of part of tbc genteel Household Furniture, a series of Paintings for the Hanging of a Eooin by Zucarelli, two iron repositories, an eight-day clock and numerous effects of the late John Hunter Esq., at his Kesidence, No 28 on the East side of Leicester Square, which will be sold by Auction by Mr. Dawson, on the premises (by Order of the Executors), on Wednesday, September 24, 1806, at Twelve o'clock." WATER-COLOUR DRAWING of Hunter's Residence in Great Windmill Street. Stone Collection. PROPOSALS for erecting a Public Monument to the Memory of John Hunter. CUTTINGS from Illustrated Papers relating to removal of John Hunter's remains to Westminster Abbey in 1859, and Copy of Memorial in the Abbey. Stone Collection. PHOTOGRAPH OF HUNTER'S COFFIN. Presented to the College by Frank Buchland, Esq. This was taken when the body was removed from St. Martin's Church to "Westminster Abbey. IMPRESSION FROM HUNTER'S COFFIN-PLATE. Stone Collection. NEWSPAPER CUTTINGS RELATING TO HUNTER. SIX LANCETS in tortoise-shell case. " J. Hunter" is engraved on the top of the case. These lancets were presented to the College in 1892 by the Hon. Miss Crewe, through J. A. G-artley, Esq. They were purchased in Edinburgh in 1886 from an old lady who was connected with the Hunter family. SET OF AGATE BUTTONS. Lentbyliev.lt. Owen. These buttons were presented to the late Sir Richard Owen by Joanna Baillie in 1847. The letter from Miss Baillie to Sir Richard which accompanied the gift is exhibited with the buttons. JOHN HUNTER'S POCKET SCALES, in Wooden Box. " This box and contents were given by John Hunter to Mrs. Reynett in 1786, and given to me by Miss Reynett, the Daughter of Mrs. Reynett, on Jan. 1, 1867." Note by Dr. Hamilton, who presented the Scales to the College, May 2, 1893.IS SILVER TANKARD, once the property of John Hunter. Prated to the Roy. Coll. of Surgeons by his nephew Captain Sir Everard Uome, Bart.,li.N. SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS, once the property of John Hunter. Lithotomy Knife. Instrument for tightening ligatures in operation for Aneurysm. Pair of Dressing Forceps, Spatula, and Scissors: lhe three last were presented to the College in 1893 hy W. Eoots, Esq. PHOTOGRAPH of the page of the Oxford University Matriculation Roll showing the signature of John Hunter. TRACING OF THE ENTRIES in the Account Book of St. Mary Hall, Oxford, showing Hunter's Battels from June 5 to July 22, 1755. As the two preceding entries show, Hunter matriculated June 5th, 1755 as a Gentleman Commoner at St. Mary Hall. The matriculation entry runs thus-— "Johannes Hunter ex aula santa? mara; virginis. Ann. Pil." This is in Hunter's handwriting ; the spelling of " Sanctae Marios " is Hunter's also. The entry in the books of S. Mary Hall is " Junii 5, 1755, Admissus est Johannes Hunter superioris ordmis Oommensahs. By entering as a Gentleman Commoner, Hunter escaped any Matriculation Examination. Dr. William Pitcairn was tutor to the Duke of Hamilton at Oxford and had the Degree of M.D. conferred on him at the opening of the Kadclifle Library. He entered at St. Mary Hall, and, as he was on intimate terms with William Hunter, it is very probable that it was Pitcairn who recommended St. Mary Hall for John Hunter. Through the kindness of Dr. Chase, Principal of St Mary Hall, the account books for 1755 have been thoroughly examined. In the Buttery books the entries begin on June 6 and end on July 22 ; there is nothing on June 12-15 and 22nd. This makes just the 6 weeks' residence necessary for keeping the term Where Hunter lived in Oxford is not known; the quarterly accounts of the Hall do not show any charges either for " Chamber Eents," " Beading Prayers," " Guberna- tion," " Pro Eebus," or " Bedmaking." It is therefore certain that he did not live within the Hall itself. He is charged, however, "Cook's Salt" and " University Dues." These charges are continued until the quarter ending St. Thomas' day, 1755; after that date there is no entry against Hunter's name : his name was, however, kept on the list until the week ending Dec. 16, 1756. Mr. P. Madan of the Bodleian Library has most kindly made a transcript of the Hall entries, this accompanies the tracing, and by it some of (he items can be made out. The most constant entry is that of "Janitor 2d"; if Hunter had lived in the Hall the fee would have been for knocking in after probably 9 p.m. As he lived outsido the Hall, the charge must bo for knocking out after 9 o'clock. PHOTOGRAPH OF MATRICULATION ENTRY OF "JOHN HUNTER" in the Glasgow University Album. Presented by Dr. Finlayson. It was stated by Mr. Luther Holden in his Hunterian Oration in 1881, that John Hunter matriculated at Glasgow University in 1745 (see Hunterian Oration, 1881, page 12). Dr. Finlayson has mado further researches on the subject (see'British19 Medical Journal,' July 8th, 1893) and has shown that this John Hunter is not the Burgeon. The heading in the Glasgow book runs thus: " Nomina diBcipuloruni Olassis quintas qui hoc anno Acaderniaui intrarunt." This fifth Class is " Latin," and not " Nat. Phil." as stated by Mr. Holden. The Hunter entry is " Joannes Hunter filius Joannis Hunter (natu secundus) Mercatoris quondam Glasguensis "; in the same year there appears the Matriculation of " Jacobus Hunter filius Joannis Hunter quondam Mercatoris Glasguensis, Natu maximus." There can be little doubt but that these two, James and John Hunter, were brothers and it is known that James the brother of the Surgeon died before this date. In the matriculation entry of William Hunter in 1731, of which there is also a photograph, he is described as " Gulielmus Hunter: F. Johan. Hunter inter Dominos de Long Oalderwood." The writing of " John Hunter " in the Glasgow book is very different from that of " John Hunter " in the Oxford Matriculation book. The latter is undoubtedly in the John Hunter's own writing. COPY OF JOHN HUNTER'S WILL. This is the last Will and Testament of me John Hunter of Leicester Square in the County of Middlesex Esquire Surgeon and Inspector-General of His Majesty's Forces as follows I give and confirm all that my capital messuage lands and heredits situate lying and being in the parish of Stelbride in the Shire of Lanerick in North Britain with the rights royalties members and appurts to the same belonging which premises descended and came to me upon the decease of my late brother William Hunter of London Doctor of Physick and which premises had descended to him upon the decease of our father John Hunter and had been in his family for many generations unto and to the use of John my dear and only son for his life with remainder to his first and other sons in tail male successively with remainder to his daughter or daughters if more than one as tenants in common and the heirs of their respective body or bodies with remainder to my own right heirs for ever I also give to my dear and esteemed friends and relations Matthew Baillie of London Doctor in Physick and Everard Home of Leicester Square aforesaid Surgeon and his heirs and assigns all my capital messuage messuage lands and heredits situate lying and being at Earls Court in the parish of Kensingtonand the County of Middlesex with their and every of their rights members and appurts To have and to hold the same unto and to the use of the said Matthew Baillie and Everard Home their heirs and assigns for ever Upon trust nevertheless to sell the same and receive the consideration money for which the same shall be sold and to give receipts for the same unto the purchasers thereof And I hereby will and direct that their receipts shall be sufficient discharges to the purchasers thereof and that the moneys arising by such sale and also the rents and profits of the same until such sale shall be had and perfected shall be considered as part of my personal estate and not as land and shall be paid and applied by them upon the trusts hereinafter mentioned con- cerning the same and of any codicil thereto to be made by me and for want of full and compleat directions concerning the same or the distribution thereof by this my Will or any Codicil thereto to be made by me that then as to such parts of such moneys that shall not be compleatly and entirely directed given or disposed of the same shall go and be applicable payable and distributable as a part of my personal estate undisposed of according to the statute for distribution of Intestate Estates And I also give to the said Matthew Baillie and Everard Home all my collection of Natural History and the cases and other things belonging thereto or used therewith upon trust that they offer the same to sale in one entire lot to the Government of Great Britain at such price as may be considered as reasonable between both parties and in case of refusal then that it may be offered to sale to any Foreign Government or State upon the like terms and in failure of such sale then to dispose of the same in an entire lot in such manner as they shall think proper And I hereby direct that all my just debts be paid by and out of the moneys to arise by sale of my real estate so directed to be sold as aforesaid and out of the rents and profits thereof until such sale shall be had and also by and out of the moneys to arise by sale of my Natural History and also by and out of my other personal estate And I give and bequeath the residue and surplus of all such money and all other my personal estate unto Ann my dear and esteemed wife John my son and Agnes my only daughter share and share alike Provided20 that in caso of the death of my son boforo ho attains twenty-one or of my daughter before she attains twenty-one or marriage then it is my Will and intent that the capital of tlio share or part of such of them so dying shall go and be paid to the survivor of them And I do hereby nominate and appoint my said wife and also the said Matthew Baillio and Everard Home Guardians to my two children until they shall severally attain twenty-one years of ago and also Executors of this my Will In witness whereof I the said John Hunter have hereunto set my hand and seal this eleventh day of July in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and ninety-three. JOHN HUNTER, Signed, sealed, published, and declared by the said John Hunter as and for his last Will and Testament in the presence of us who in his presence at his request and in the presence of each other have subscribed our names as witnesses thereto. John Gawler—Henry Gawler—Owen Jones. Proved 2nd November, 1793. John Gawler was an Attorney in Essex Street, Strand. In the book of Household Accounts (see p. 12) the following entry occurs:—" 1791, May 8. Jno. Gawler for a Will £2 2s. Od." ENTRY in Rough Minute Book of CORPORATION OF SURGEONS of Hunter having passed the Exami- nation for Membership, July 7, 1768, The Examiners were Messrs. Bromfield, Middleton, Crane, Adair, Young, Fullagar, Pott, and Dr. Hossack. The entry is '' John Hunter, exd. for and recd. Diploma £27 8s. Od. In a " List of Fees " in the same book it is explained that the Fee of .£27 8s. Od. is for " Grand Diploma by a person residing in London who has not been bound at ye Theatre." For a person residing in London, and who has been bound, the fee is £23 4s. 6d. COPY OF HUNTER'S BOOK ON THE BLOOD with MS. Notes by William Clift. It is in two marginal notes in this Vol. that Clift states Hunter's hei ht to have been 5 ft. 2 in. REGULATIONS and LAWS of the Lyceum Medicum Londinense, held at Mr. John Hunter's Lecture-Room, Castle Street, Leicester Square. 8°, London, 1792. Stone Collection. The Lyceum Medicum Londinense was instituted Jan. 25, 1785, under the patronage of Dr. Fordyce and Mr. Hunter.21 BOOKS, MANUSCRIPTS OF LECTURES AND PAPERS, BIOGRAPHIES, Etc. These Booles Sfc. are in Hunter's Book-case. (See p. 4.) Hunter (John). The natural history of the Human Teeth : explaining their structure, use, formation, growth, and diseases. 16 plates. 4to. London, 1771. Again. 2nd edit. 16 plates. 4to. ib., 1778. Again. 3rd edit. 16 plates. 4to. ib., 1803. The original MS. of Part 1, with proofs of the plates. . A treatise on the Venereal Disease. 7plates. 4to. London, 1786. Again. 2nd edit. 7 plates. 4to. ib., 1788. Again. 3rd edit., enlarged from the materials left by the Author for that purpose, with occasional observations of the Editor, Everard Home. 7plates and portrait. 4to. ib., 1810. Another copy. 4to. ib., 1810. The MS. of the 1st edition; with Notes in Hunter's hand- writing. 3 vols. 4to. The same : traduit par M. Audiberti. 8vo. Paris, 1787. The same: traduit par Gr. Eichelot: avec des notes et des additions par Ph. Ricord. 3meedit. 9 plates. 8vo. ib., 1859. . Observations on certain Parts of the Animal (Economy, plates. 4to. London, 1786. Again. 2nd edit, plates. 4to. ib., 1792. Another copy, plates and portrait. 4to. ib., 1792. With MS. Notes by John Flint South. . A treatise on the Blood, Inflammation, and G-un-shot Wounds : with a short account of the Author's life by Everard Home. 8 plates. 4to. London, 1794. Another copy, portrait. 4to. ib., 1794. This book belonged to Olift, and contains MS. corrections and notes by him. Another copy, portrait. 4to. ib., 1794. With MS. Notes by John Flint South. . "Works, with Notes, edited by James E. Palmer. 4 vols. 8vo. With atlas of plates and portrait. 4to. London, 1835. Vol. 1. Life by Drewry Ottley—Surgical Lectures. „ 2. On the Human Teeth, with notes by T. Bell—On the Venereal Disease, with notes by Gh G-. Babington. „ 3. On the Blood, Inflammation, and Gun-shot Wounds—On Introsus- ception—Oases, observations, &c. by Sir Everard Home. „ 4. On the Animal Economy, with notes by Richard Owen.22 Hunter (John). Essays and Observations on Natural History, Ana- tomy, Physiology, Psychology, and Geology; being his Posthumous Papers on those subjects, arranged with notes, and Lectures on the Hunterian Collection of Fossil llemains, by liichard Owen, portrait, 2 vols. 8vo. London, 1SU1. . Observations on fossil bones : (published in the Margrave of Anspach's Account of some remarkable caves in the Principality of Bayreuth). 1793. . Observations and reflections on Geology : intended to serve as an introduction to the Catalogue of his collection of extraneous fossils. 4to. London, 1859. MS. of Part 1 of the preceding, in the handwritings of AVilliam Bell and William Gift, with MS. Notes and cor- rections by John Hunter. 4to. Copy of the above MS. of Part 1, and also of Part 2, in Gift's handwriting. 4to. For an account of the two preceding MSS., see Preface to the printed " Observations" by Sir E. Owen. . Hunterian Reminiscences ; a course of Lectures on Surgery by the late John Hunter, in 1785, taken in shorthand by James Parkinson; edited, with Notes, by J. W. K. Parkinson. 4to. London, 1833. Copy by Gift of the original Notes from which the preceding book was printed. 2 vols. fol. . General Observations on the Pnumobrankes. 4to. MS. This MS. is partly in Hunter's handwriting. Mr. Hunter's MS. account of the American Siren of Linnaeus. 4to. Copy of the preceding by Gift. The above title is written in square brackets by Clift at the head of the paper. Hunter's title is " The Pnumobrankes." . Memoranda on Vegetation. 4to. London, 1860. Copy of the original MS. of the above, made by Mr. Eiches in 1833. fol. . Cases and Observations and Eecords in Morbid Anatomy. 2 vols. 4to. MS. partly in Hunter's handwriting. These are the contents of the two Solanders sent to the Board of Trustees, by Sir Everard Home, in 1825. Transcript of Hunterian Manuscript, " Cases and Observations," in Gift's writing. 2 vols. fol. A transcript of Cases and Dissections, Abridgements of Cases, and Memoranda of others ; transcribed by Wm. Clift, between the years 1794 and 1800, from MSS. left by the late John Hunter, Esq., E.E.S. This vol. is not in Clift's handwriting, but was copied in 1830 by Mr. Riches. Transcript of Hunterian Manuscript, " Cases in Surgery, in Clift's writing. 2 vols. fol.23 Hunter (John). Cases in Surgery and Cases in Medicine. MS. fol. Copied in 1833 by Mr. Griinley from a vol. in the handwriting of Sir Everard Home. . An Account of the Dessections of Morbid Bodys. MS. fol. Partly in Jobn Hunter's handwriting. Transcript of the above in Cliffs writing. Dissections. MS. fol. This is a c ipy, made by Mr. Grimley in 1833, of a vol. in the handwriting of Sir Everard Home. It contains 21(5 numbered cases of Dissections, with introductory " Observations on Opening Dead Bodies." Miscellaneous Observations in Medicine and Surgery. MS. fol. Copied by Mr. Conelly in 1833 from a vol. in Sir Everard Home's writing. . Description of some Animals: Description of Actinia?: Expe- riments on the Blood &c. The Modern History of the Absorbing System. The opinion of different Authors respecting the use of the Nerves. MS. fol. This vol. was copied by Mr. Riches in 1833 from oue of the Abstracts of Hunter's Manuscripts, made by Sir Everard Home. . A course of lectures on Surgery. 1786. 4 vols. 4to. From Notes taken by Mr. Eumsey. This is the MS. used by Palmer for Hunter's Lectures in the collected edition of his works. Lectures on the Principles of Surgery. 1791. MS. Notes taken by Mr. James Pearce. *Lectures on Principles of Surgery. MS. 2 vols. *Surgical and Physiological lectures began in the month of October, and continued till April following, every other evening from seven to eight o'clock. MS. *Surgical lectures. (Incomplete.) MS. Notes. (Vol. 2 only.) *Lectures on Surgery. 2 vols. 4to. MS. *Lectures on Surgery. 4to. MS. " These lectures were first taken down some years ago—they were not then a perfeot copy. Since that time Mr. Hunter has added some opinions and altered others, which additions and alterations are now given on the left-hand page of this Book."—Note at beginning of book. * There is no note as to the handwriting of these Reports of the Lectures. Lectures on the Principles of Surgery. MS. Once the property of Bransby Cooper. A transcript of Notes, taken from " Lectures on Surgery" by Mr. Jobn Hunter. MS. These Notes were taken and arranged by Mr. Hopkinson : they were afterwards copied by Dr. Whitsed, of Great Coram Street, and from his copy this transcript was made by Mi'. Riches in 1831-2. Lectures on the Principles of Surgery. MS. 2 vols. 1786. These volumes are in the handwriting of John Flint South, and were copied by him in 1819. Lectures on the Principles of Surgery. MS. 1787. Transcript of a volume of Notes taken by Mr. Twigge from the 1st part of a course of Lectures on the Principles of Surgery, deli- vered by Hunter at 13 Castle St. in 1787. These Notes extend to the end of the 67th Lecture. Clift has gone carefully through this copy of the Lectures, and marked where and how it differs from Souths and other copies.24 Lectures on the Principles of Surgery. MS. Notes taken by Thomas Keale. There is an autograph letter from Mr. Keato inserted in the vol., giving an account of how this Report of the Lectures was formed. Notes of Lectures given by John Hunter in 1787-88. MS. These Notes, which are very incomplete, were written by Dr. Wilkinson, of Bath. -. Notes on Mr. John Hunter's Lectures on the Venereal Disease. 4to. MS. -. State of circumstances attending Sir Theodosius Boughton's Death. 4to. MS., partly in Hunter's handwriting. -. Description of Eymdyke's drawings of the Incubation of the Egg. 4to. MS., partly in Hunter's handwriting. -. The progress and peculiarities of the Chick. 4to. MS., partly in Hunter's handwriting. -. Miscellaneous Notes and Extracts. Volume copied by Clift from Hunter's original MS. -. Volume of Notes &c. on Natural History and Comparative Anatomy. Volume copied by Clift from Hunter's original MS. -. Papers on the preparation of specimens by injection, &c. MS., partly in the handwriting of Hunter. -. Case containing MS. Extracts and Notes by Clift bearing upon the Pathological portion of the Hunterian Collection: and also Memoranda relating to the Hunterian MSS. -. Eationale of Surgery collected from the Lectures of Mr. John Hunter. 3 vols. 4to. MS. -. Drawings of Specimens in the Hunterian Collection. 4 vols. fol. -. Volume of Cuttings &c. relating to John Hunter. Biographies, &c. ' European Magazine' for 1782. This contains a notice of Hunter. Clift, in Ins MSS., says of this notice hat it is Hunter's "own account of his life and labours.' lhe article is reprinted as an Appendix to Abernethy's Physiological Lectures. ' Gentleman's Magazine,' 1793, Vol. 2, p. 964, contains an Obituary Notice of Hunter. Home (E.). Short account of bis life (prefixed to Hunters Treatise on the Blood). 1794. Foot (Jesse). The life of John Hunter. 1794. Adams (J.). Memoirs of the life and doctrines of the late John Hunter, Esq. 2nd edit. 1818. , , ... , * Ottlry (Drewry). Life of Hunter (prefixed to Palmer s edition of his works). 1835 'Dublin Review,' April 1837, contains a Review of Drewry Ottley'a Life of Hunter and of Lawrence and Brodie's Hunterian Orations.25 Ridge (J.)- Observations on the life, disease, and death of John Hunter. 1855. Jardine's Naturalist's Library, vol. 22 (Mammalia, vol. 10), contains a memoir of John Hunter. Gross (S. D.). John Hunter and his pupils. 1881. [Green (Joseph Henry).] John Hunter. The Address to the Committee for the erection of a statue of Hunter, by the President of the Royal College of Surgeons of England, March 29th, 1859. Contains an account of the removal of John Hunter's remains from St. Martin's Church to Westminster Abbey. [Meriuman (J. J.).] John Hunter at Earl's Court, Kensington, 1764-1793. 1881. Gltjtterbuck (Henry). Remarks on some of the opinions of the late Mr. Hunter respecting the Venereal Disease : in a letter to Joseph Adams. 1799. Abernetuy (J.). Enquiry into the probability of Hunter's "Theory of Life." 1814. . Introductory lectures exhibiting some of Mr. Hunter's opinions respecting life and disease. 1815. . Part of the introductory lecture for 1815 exhibiting some of Mr. Hunter's opinions respecting disease. 1815. . Physiological lectures exhibiting a general view of Mr. Hunter's physiology and of his researches in Comparative Anatomy. 1817. Foot (Jesse). Observations on the New Opinions of John Hunter on the Venereal Disease. 3 parts. 1786. . Essay on the bite of a Mad Dog: with observations on John Hunter's treatment in the case of Master R 1788. . Dialogues between a pupil of the late John Hunter and Jesse Foot, including Passages from Darwin's ' Zoonomia.' 1795. . Observations on Mr. Hunter's Museum. Fol. 1796. Mahon (P. A. O.). Important Researches upon Venereal Infection in Pregnant Women, New-born Infants, and Nurses. These are contrasted with the New Opinions of the late John Hunter. With Observations by Jesse Foot. 1808. Fletcher (F. D.). John Hunter, his life and works : an introductory lecture. 1854. Taylor (Tom). Leicester Square: its associations and its worthies; with a sketch of Hunter's scientific character and works by Richard Owen. 1874. Buckland (Frank). Log-book of a Fisherman and Zoologist. 1891. Contaius an account of Earl's Court House, in an article entitled ' John Hunter revived.' [Goodsiu (Robt. A.).] Only an Old Chair: its story as taken down in choice shorthand and clone into English by D.R.A.G.M. 1884.20 HUNTERIAN ORATIONS DELIVERED BEFORE THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS OF ENGLAND. *1S14. Home (Sir Everard). 1815. Blizard (Sir William). tI816. Cline (Henry). 1817. Norris (William). 1818. Dundas (Sir David). 1819. Abernethy (John). 1820. Carlisle (Sir Anthony). 1821. Chevalier (Thomas). 1822. Homo (Sir Everard). 1S23. Blizard (Sir William). tl824. Cline (Henry). 1825. Norria (William). 1826. Carlisle (Sir Anthony). 1827. Thomas (Honoratus Leigh). 1828. Blizard (Sir William). 1829. Vincent (John P.). 11830. Guthrie (George James). tl831. White (Anthony). 1832. Cooper (Samuel). 1833. Howship (John). 183-1. Lawrence (William). {1835. J1836. 1837. Brodie (Sir Benjamin). 1838. Travers (Benjamin). 1839. Stanley (Edward). 1840. Green (Joseph Henry). 1-1841. Callaway (Thomas). 1842. Babington (George G.). 1843. Arnott (James Moncrieff). 11844. South (John Flint). {1845. 18411. Lawrence (William). 1847. Green (Joseph Henry). 1848. Grainger (Richard D.). 1849. Hawkins (Cajsar Henry). 1850. Skey (Frederic Carpenter). §1851. Stafford (Richard Anthony). 1852. Luke (James). 1853. Cooper (Bransby Blake). {1854. 1855. Hodgson (Joseph). 1857. Wormald (Thomas). 1859. Bishop (John). 18(U. Coulson (William). 1863. Gulliver (George). 1-1865. Partridge (Richard). 1867. Hilton (John). 1869. Quain (Richard). 1871. Fergusso'n (Sir William). 1873. Hancock (Henry). 1875. Clark (F. Le Gros). 1877. Paget (Sir James). 1879. Humphry (George Murray). 1881. Holden (Luther). 1883. Wells (Sir T. Spencer). 1885. Marshall (John). 1887. Savory (William Scovell). 1889. Power (Henry). 1891. Hutchinson (Jonathan). 1893. Bryant (Thomas). * A MS. copy of this oration is also in the Library ; it is In Cliffs handwriting, and has variations from the printed copy. t Never published. { No Orations given in these years. § This oration was not delivered, but was printed Dy the Author for private distri- bution. HUNTERIAN ORATIONS DELIVERED BEFORE THE HUNTERIAN SOCIETY. For a list of these Orations, see "Proceedings of the Hunterian Society."