706 SURGERY. of the tliigh. The circulation is commanded by placing the tourniquet round the upper part of the arm, or by an assistant compressing the artery here with his fingers. When the extremity is removed high up, the subclavian artery should be compressed above the clavicle. When the arm is to be removed near the shoulder-joint, Mr. Guthrie recommends the following plan : "Two incisions are to commence one or two fingers' breadth below the acromion, and the inner one is to be extended directly across the inner side of the limb, till it meets the lower point of the outer wound. Without detaching the skin from the muscles, these are cut through, the soft parts are held out of the way of the saw, the bone is sawn, the vessels secured, and the flaps brought together, so as to form a line from the acromion downwards." When amputation is performed high up, the bone is exceedingly apt to protrude from the spasmodic action of the pectoralis major muscle, so much so, that some prefer amputation of the shoulder-joint. Amputation of the forearm.—The forearm may be re- moved in its upper half by the circular incision, as described in amputating the leg, or by making a flap on the anterior and posterior part. It will be necessary to divide the fascia on each side of the limb, to prevent its constricting the stump. The sawing of the bones may be commenced at the same time, the forearm being pronated as much as possible, but that of the radius should be first corG^leted. The line of junction of the soft parts should correspond to the long axis of the limb. In amputation of the lower half of the forearm, the double-flap operation is preferred. The flaps are formed, one from the anterior, the other from the posterior surface of the hmb, bypassing the catlin through the soft parts, close to the boues, and then carrying it downwards and outwards to the necessary extent. The soft parts in the interosseous space being next divided, the bones are sawn through, and the ope- ration completed. Amputation of the hip-joint. —hairej's method. The femoral artery having been first cut down upon and tied close to Poupart's ligament, a straight knife is perpendicularly plunged between the tendons of the muscles attached to the trochanter minor and the base of the neck of the femur, so as to bring out its point at the back part of the limb, opposite to its first entrance; and then by directing the knife obliquely inwards and downwards, a flap, which