PHYSIOLOGY. 424 Pigment Cells.—In various parts of the body are found certain coloured portions. This is evident in the skin of the negro, and in some parts of the skin of tlie other races of mankind. This colour is owing to a peculiar black pigment found in cells, and composed of carbon in large proportion, together with nitrogen, hydrogen, and oxygen. The pigment cells of the skin of the negro are found lodged in the rete-mucosum. They are somewhat smaller than those of the choroid, and are generally hexagonal in appearance. According to some, the pigment layer in the negro forms an additional stratum, and it maybe separated from the cuticle by long digestion in water, but this circumstance is not sufficient to establish its separate character. The pigment cells of the choroid, and of the uvea of the iris, are both more or less hexagonal in shape, and of all forms, varying from that to the sphencal. The pigment itself appears to be the peculiar, coloured, gratiu- lar substance, and the coloured nucleus contained withm the cell. In some rare instances in the human race the pigment of the skin, the choroid, and the haii- appears to be deficient. In this case, the individual is called an albino. ^ e j. i- Adipose Trnwe.—The principal part of the fat ot the body is found enclosed in small cells, more or less rounded in shape, and by the aggregation of which is formed adipose tissue. Adipose substance, in younger subjects, is generally lodged in the subcutaneous ceUular tissue, but as age advances, it becomes more and more confined to the trunk, surrounding and enveloping the internal organs, such as the kidneys, &c. It also exists more or less about the joints, and within the cavities of the bones of which it forms the marrow. There are few parts of the body in which fat may not be deposited but none exists as a rule in the cellular tissue of eyelids, penis, or scrotum ; nor in the lungs or the cavity of the cranium. The fat in the human body generally exists more or less in a state of fluidity during life, but after death it becomes much more solid. Fat cells are tolerably well supplied with blood-vessels, but no nerves are distributed to them. Areolar TrnMe.—This substance was formerly incorrectly named cellular tissue, but in the present day it is well known that no cells exist in its substance. It is composed