694 0 SURGERY. neck, their extent is less defined, and their removal is often attended with considerable trouble. TUMOUR OF THE OVARIUM. There are two varieties of the ovarian tumour, viz. scirrhous and encvsted or dropsical. The scirrhous en- largement is of a d'estructive character, injuring the health and cutting off life prematurely. An operation for its re- moval has been performed in a few cases; and contrary to expectation, some have recovered from it. The danger attending it, however, is so great, that the surgeon is hardly warranted in ever attempting it. The tumour is hard, smooth on the surface, with a few projections, is free from pain, and contains no fluid. The dropsical ovarium attains a large size, but does not generally disturb the health much, except by its mechani- cal effects. It is usually composed of a number of cells or cysts containing a thick brownish, ropy fluid, and in many cases hydatids: consequently, less benefit results from tapping than might have been hoped for. ON SCROFULA. The term scrofula is applied to a morbid state of the human body, which develops diseases of a peculiar nature in various tissues and different periods of hfe. Scarcely any part of the body is free from its ravages, still it shows itself more in glandular than in other parts, and is more frequently noticed in the early periods of life. Scrofula is considered to be hereditary, but not exclusively so, as it will show itself in the progeny of healthy parents, whose frames exhibit no traces of it. A scrofulous constitution is generally observed to exist in those who have a dehcate, fair skin, light hair, blue eyes, red eyelids, thick hps, pro- minent rosy cheeks, and who rather carry with them the appearance of good health: it is also met with, but less frequently, in persons with dark hair, dark eyes and dark complexion. There is no doubt that a scrofulous liabi may be induced by bad living, exposure to cold, and all those agencies which disorder the constitution, and that by care childien born of scrofulous parents may be rendered free from the effects of this disease.