346 KEGIONAL AND SURGTCAL ANATOMY. Place the patient in the recumbent posture; make a semilunar incision, concave upwards, through the integuments below the clavicle, and extending from near the sternal end of the clavicle, outwards towards the acromion process; the clavicular portion of the pectoralis major will thus be exposed, divide this, taking care to avoid the cephalic vein andthethoracica-acromialis artery; separate the edges of the wound, and the costo-clavicular ligainent with the upper edge of the pectoralis minor will be brought into view; divide the former on a director, and depress the latter; tear through some cellular tissue and the artery will be exposed, having the vein anterior and internal to it, and the brachial plexus above and behind it; isolate the artery, and pass the aneurism- needle from within outwards. "We have no hesitation in stating that this operation should not be performed in preference to that of tying the subclavian artery in its third stage. It is both diflncult and dangerous in performance, and not so likely, from the number of parts disturbed, to be as successful as the other. Some have advised the artery to be compressed here during the performance of amputation of the shoulder-joint. Surgeons have long abandoned this practice, preferring to apply pressure on the subclavian artery, where it crosses the first rib. In wounds of this artery, in the first or second stage, Mr. Guthrie recommends a transverse section of the pectoral muscles, and that the artery should be tied both above and below the seat of injury. The axillary artery, in its third stage, may be tied very easily as follows: place the patient in the recumbent position, raise the arm from the side, make an incision in the line of the artery, about three inches in length, through the integuments and fascia, and opposite the head of the humerus, between the two folds of the axilla, but a little nearer the posterior one; tear cautiously through some cellular tissue, and the plexus of veins, with the branches of the brachial plexus of nerves, will be exposed, con- ceahng the arter)'; carefully separate these parts, and isolate the vessel- pass the aneurism-needle from behind forwards. The median nerve is not unfrequently in front of the artery here, and some caution is therefore necessary in making our first incision. Bending of the elbow-joint, so as to relax the nerves, and permit of the more easy separation from the artery, will be found useful. The branches of the axillary artery are as follows: I Thoracica acromialis, From its first stage -j^ suprema. J Arteries glandulares, „ second stage -j^ Thoracica longa vel mammaria externa. J Suhscapularis, „ third stage | circumflexa anterior et posterior. The thoracica acromialis is a short axis, of considerable size which arises from the anterior part of the axillary