SURGERY. 664 observed on its surface, the colour increases in depth and extent, until at length it assumes a dark red or livid hue. The aneurism now threatens to burst. One portion of the tumour, frequently, but not always, its centre, be- comes more deeply coloured, and more pointed than the rest; over this point the cuticle becomes detached, and a slough forms in the cutis, which gradually yielding, at length admits of the escape, first of a portion of the contents of the sac, and then of the fluid blood. The haemorrhage may be restrained at first, but soon returns, and at no distant period puts an end to the life and the sufferings of the patient. This is the course of an aneurism which protrudes and bursts externally. When the tumour opens on a mucous surface, as into the stomach, intestines, &c., the same process is observed, but not so when it makes its way through a serous membrane; this latter yields by a rent or fissure being made through it. This, although the general, is not the invariable termi- nation of an aneurismal tumour when left to nature ; it is possible that a spontaneous or natural cure may take place, and the patient recover. This may be effected by the complete filling up of the aneurismal sac with coagu- lated blood. The sac then compresses the artery, and causes its obliteration. A cure may be also produced by the aneurismal or other tumour being forced upon the artery leading to the disease, thus causing its obliteration as if a ligature had been appHed upon it. Cases of spon- taneous cure have also occurred from inflammation and sloughing of the sac and neighbouring parts, in which process the artery becomes obliterated, and the slough ultimately thrown off. Sloughing of the aneurismal sac is, notwithstanding, more to be dreaded than hoped for, as but few constitutions could bear up against the numerous trials that such a process exposes them to. On making a post-mortem examination of an aneurismal tumour, the skin is found extremely thin, and confounded as it were with the sac. The cells of the cellular sub- stance are filled with serum, or obliterated by adhesion. The adjacent muscles are stretched, displaced, and many of them wholly or partially absorbed. The neighbouring nerves are displaced, and where they have been subjected to the pressure of the tumour, are flattened, spread out.