583 DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. the patient's strength, and, in the bones of the head, induce inflammation of the dura mater and brain, destroying life, by the formation of matter in the interior of the cranium. The foetus, in utero, may be impregnated with syphiHs from the mother. The symptoms manifest themselves within twenty-four hours after birth, the palms of the hand, the soles of the feet, and the nates become covered with a copper-coloured eruption, and the nails generally begin to fall off. Mercury should be administered to the mother, and will, by means of the milk, be communicated to the child. In these cases, however, the child often dies before birth. ON WARTS. Warts frequently form on the glans penis, in consequence of the application of matter from similar productions, or of a diseased action in the glandulse odoriferse. They were formerly supposed to be syphilitic, but are now known not to be so. Local applications, such .as the hquor plumbi diacetatis dilutus, lotio nitratis argenti, acetic acid, and solution of bichloride of mercury, will soon destroy them, by producing a sloughing of them, or by stimulating the absorbents to their removal. Syphilis in females produces similar appearances to those observed in males. The primary sores form, in general, on the inner surface of the labia. A similar mode of treatment ought to be pursued. The eye and testis are subject to disease in connection with syphilis, although it is denied by many that these are syphilitic afiections; they are treated of under the heads of Diseases of the Eye and Diseases of the Testis. DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. The prostate gland is seldom diseased, except in ad- vanced life. Phlegmonous inflammation has been met with m the young subject, even before puberty This may be caused by gonorrhoea, or other cases of inflamed urethra, or may appear as an idiopathic afi-ection. It is ZZTi J T"\^''fY' P«i° i" the region Inl « ot the bladder a frequent desire to pass urine, a sense of weight and fulness in perineo, and an