CEREBRAL NERVES. 169 distance, then leaves it to pass on to the sub-maxillary ganglion. Filaments are given off from it, to the— Gums, Sub-maxillary gland, Hypoglossal nerve. Sub-lingual gland, and terminating filaments to the substance and papUlse of the tongue. 2. The temporo-auricular or superficial temporal, commencing usually by two filaments, passes outwards between the condyle of the lower jaw and external auditory meatus. It runs within the parotid gland, and in that situation gives off anterior and posterior branches. The anterior one passes upwards with the temporal artery, to the side of the head ; the posterior filament is distributed to the anterior parts of the ear. This nerve, before its division, gives off little twigs to the otic ganglion, the temporo-maxillary articulation, the parotid gland the lower part of the ear, the external auditory meatus, and com' municating twigs to the sympathetic. 3. The inferior dental nerve passes first between the pterygoid muscle, then between the internal pterygoid and ramus of the lower jaw and enters the dental canal; reaching the foramen mentale, it divides into two branches, one runs forwards to the symphysis, unitine with the opposite nerve, and supplying the canine and incisor teeth, the other passing out, called mental nerve, is distributed to the soft parts about the chin and lower lip. In its course it receives a large short branch from the gustatory and just before entering the dental foramen, it gives off the mylo- hyoidean branch, to the mylo-hyoid muscle, the sub-maxillary gland and digastric muscle. ' ° ' teeth distributes twigs to the molar and bicuspid The sixth pair, or abducentes, arise from the junction of the pons varolii with the corpora pyramidalia; they then pass through the dura mater; and traverse the inner part of the cavernous sinus, and on the outside of the carotid artery, give filaments to communicate with the svmpa thetic ; they then pass through the sphenoidal fissure run between the two heads of the external rectus, divide into filaments, and are distributed to the external rectus or abductor muscle of the eye. ' The seventh pair consist of two portions, the mrtio dura and portio mol/is. ^^^poitio The portio dura, ov facial nerve, arises from a fissure between the corpora ohvaria and restiformia, near the pos- enor edge of the pons varolii; it passes along the meatus auditorms internus in a groove of the portio molliT and here unites wxth it sUghtly, then enters the canal of 8