117 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. MUSCLES OF THE BACK. Mauy of them are indistinct, and are subject to variety: they may be arranged in six successive layers. First Layer. Trapezius. Or. Internal third of the superior traiisverse ridge of the occipital bone, the ligamentum nuchas, and the spi- nous process of the last cervical and all the dorsal vertebrae, and from the supra-spinous ligament. Ltis. Posterior border of the external third of the clavicle and acromion process, also the supe- rior edge of the spine of the scapula. Use. To elevate the shoulder and draw it backwards or down- wards; to incline the head back- wards and to one side. Latissimus dorsi. Or. Ten- dinous from six inferior dorsal spines, and by lumbar fascia from all the lumbar spines, from the back of the sacrum, the posterior third of the crest of the ilium, and fleshy from three or four inferior ribs. Ln.s. Inner or posterior edge of the bicipital groove of hu- merus. Use. To depress the arm and shoulder, to carry the arm iu- wards and backwards, and to i compress the ribs; but if the ; arm be raised, it may elevate 1 tliem, as in forced inspiration. ■ From its peculiar action it has I been named detersor ani, and I scalptor ani. Second Layer. RhOMBOIDEUS MINOR. Or ILower part of the ligamentum :nuchae and from the last cervical 'Spinous process. I)is. Base of scapula, opposite the triangular surface, corres- ponding with the base of the spine. Use. To raise the scapula, and thus carry the shoulder backwards. Rhomboideus major. Or. Four or five superior dorsal spines and inter-spinous lio-a- ments. ° Ins. Base of the scapula from the spine to the inferior angle. Use. As the last; and lower fibres, by acting on the inferior angle, may rotate the shoulder and depress the acromion. Levator anguli scapula. Or. Posterior tubercles of transverse processes of the three, four, or five superior cervical vertebrae. Lis. Vertebral margin of the scapula, between the spine and superior angle. Use. To raise the angle of the scapula, so as to cause depression 01 the acromion. Third Layer. . Serratus POSTICUS superior Or. Ligamentum nucha, last cervical, and two or three dorsal spines. Second, third, and fourth nbs, external to their angles Use. To raise the ribs, draw JJj^^ °"t^ards, and expand the Serratusposticusinferior. w I wo last dorsal and two superior lumbar spines.