207 THE EAR. ovalis, externally; five openings from the semicircular canals, posteriorly; one from the scala vestibuli, anteriorly; the foramina for the auditory nerve, internally ; and from the posterior and external part a foramen which transmits a small vein, and is named aqiicBductus vestibuli. The cochlea is situated in front of the vestibule, in the hardest portion of the petrous bone. It is named from its resemblance to the spiral tubes of a shell. It may be described as a spiral bony tube, which makes two turns and a half round an axis or pillar, named modiolus. This tube is separated by a delicate lamella {lamina spiralis) in the recent state, into two distinct tubes, which are named the scala tijmpani (the staircase of the tympanum), and scali vestibuli, in consequence of one opening into the vestibule, the other leading towards the tympanum at the fenestra rotunda, with the intervention of a delicate mem- brane. The lamella is formed of bone towards the modiolus, and does not quite extend to the top of the tube; the rest IS membranous, and extends as far as the cupola, which is the extreme point where the two scalse communicate. The base of the modiolus is opposite to the entrance of the portio mollis from the internal auditory meatus, and is here perforated for the little nervous filaments and vessels: the passage in the modiolus expanding at the top, is caDed the infundibulum. Near to the point where the scala tympani communicates with the fenestra rotunda, a small foramen exists, which transmits a vein, and is named aquceductus cochlecB. It opens into the lateral sinus near the jugular fossa. The semicircular canals are three in number, and, from their direction, are named superior or vertical, external or horizontal, and posterior or oblique; they are situated in the petrous bone, not so deeply imbedded as the cochlea and each of them forms rather more than half a circle • they are hned with a delicate membrane, and contain the pulpy expansion of the portio molhs, with a little fluid mtervenmg between the nerve and the canals. Thev oiDen by each extremity into the vestibule; hut, as the vertical and posterior canals unite together by their contiguous extremities before communicating with the vestibule, there are ouly five, instead of six, openings into the vestibule. Ihe meatus auditonus internus is a bony canal in the