LARYNX, TRACHEA, AND BRONCHI. 221 superior cornu, which is attached by a lateral thyro-hyoid or round ligament to the os hyoides. There is frequently found in this ligament a small portion of bony matter. The inferior margin, convex in the centre, is connected by the crico-thyroid ligament to the cricoid cartilage. At the posterior inferior angle another projection is found, named the inferior cornu, which is connected with the cricoid cartilage by the lateral crico-thyroid ligament. The cricoid cartilage is of the form of a ring, with its broadest or signet portion posteriorly. It lies beneath the thyroid cartilage, and above the first ring of the trachea. It is connected with the former by the crico-thyroid liga- ments, and with the latter by a broad process of ligamentous substance. Its superior margin inclines downwards and forwards, its inferior one is horizontal. On its posterior superior margin are observed four smooth articulating surfaces, the direction of which is upwards and outwards. The inner surface on each side receives the base of the arytenoid cartilage ; the outer ones articulate with the inferior cornua of the thyroid cartilage. The posterior surface of the cricoid is furrowed by the crico-arytenoidei postici muscles. In old age this cartilage is frequently ossified. The arytenoid cartilages are two in number, of a pyra- midal figure, attached at their base by capsular ligaments to the upper edge of the cricoid cartilage. They have a little cartilaginous appendage on the summit, named corniculum laryngis, which is attached by ligaments and a synovial capsule. Their posterior surface is a little hollowed out, for the insertion of the transverse and oblique arytenoid muscles. To their anterior surface, which is rather convex and to the apex are attached ligamentous fibres, which'pass to the msic e of the projecting part of the thyroid cartUage, and to the epiglottis. ° These cartilages are sometimes ossified T«'o other minute cartilages are described by some authors, as existing ,n the thyro-epiglottidean fold, near to the cornicida; they are named cuneiform, and are found with much difliculty. The epiglottis, in texture, is not strictly cartilaginous ;