571 STUICTDBE OF THE URETHRA. Spasmodic stricture, usually manifests itself after raucli eating and drinking, that is in a feverish and excited state of the system. It is attributed to spasmodic contraction of the muscular fibres surrounding the urethra, but it is questionable whether it ever occurs without a slight amount of permanent stricture. A catheter should first be tried, then the warm bath, an opiate enema, and some laudanum given by the mouth; and the catheter should be gently pressed against the stricture, which by a little patience will give way. Leeches to the perineum and nauseants, or the muriated tincture of iron in 15 minim doses every quar- ter of an hour, may sometimes be usefully employed. The following may be considered as the principal after- consequences of stricture. Retention of Urine.—This seldom makes its appearance suddenly, unless when much spasm is present; in general . the stream of urine has been gradually diminishing for some time, and then the patient, from some excess or exposure to cold, brings on a complete retention of urine. The symptoms of the afiection are an extreme desire to pass urine, attended with a total inability to do so, or nearly so, a few drops only making their appearance with much straining; a sense of weight and fulness in the blad- der and lower part of the pelvis, and the presence of a circumscribed tumour, formed by the distended bladder, above the pubes. In many cases the last symptom is absent, as the bladder does not rise above the pubes, in consequence of its being in a permanently contracted state. Here, by passing the forefinger of one hand into the rectum, so as to support the inferior fundus of the bladder, whilst we tap with the other hand, above the pubes, the fluctuation of the urine in the bladder becomes at once evident, unless when very much distended; here the presence of the swollen viscus, as felt through the rectum, is sufficient to point out the case. If we meet with a case of this kind, shortly after its commencement, we may administer an emollient enema, followed by an anodyne draught, apply leeches to the peri- neum or above the pubes, and use the warm bath, before we make any attempt to pass the catheter. At one time, the muriated tincture of iron, given in doses of from ten to fifteen drops every quarter of an hour, was much extolled