696 SUKGERY. or pulvis conii, attending at the same time to the state of the bowels, which is best regulated by pulv. rhei with magnesia, and recommending plain, wholesome, digestible food. In some cases the iodide of iron has produced the best effects, but is generally too stimulating and irritating for children. Such sores have been treated with nitrate of silver and sulphate of copper, both in strong and weak solutions, and occasionally with success. There is favor- able testimony of the use of a weak solution of sulphate of copper in healing scrofulous sores. Mercury as a general remedy is injurious in scrofula, and should only be used as an alterative or mild stimulant to the bihary secretion, and to promote (which it appears to do sometimes) the absorption of those remedies which, introduced into the blood and tissues, induce a healthy action. Scrofulous, tedious ulceration of the throat sometimes follows syphilis. Here mercury is of no avail, and may be even mischievous: most benefit results from the adminis- tration of iodide of potassium with decoction of sarsapariUa, with which free iodine or iodide of iron in small doses may be combined. . The breast of the female has already been mentioned as liable to scrofulous enlargement; and when inflammation attacks this structure during suckUng, abscesses will form, and numerous sinuses will be produced, which are difficult to cure. Bland emollient poultices are most suitable, and constitutional remedies are at the same time requisite. Tubercles in the lungs are looked upon as a form ot scrofulous deposit; both on account of their progress, mode of formation, and appearance, and because ot being more common in scrofulous individuals. The mesenteric glands are often diseased in chUdren; they become enlarged, the tubes passing through them are obstructed, and con- sequently the nutritious matter of the chyle does not find its way into the circulation; hence we find wasting of the body generally, but with a tumid abdomen, a condition which is named tabes mesenterica. On post-mortem ex- amination, we find the mesenteric glands much enlarged, and when cut into, they exhibit the curdled flaky sub- stance, which is characteristic of scrofula. In these cases iodine in its various forms is likely to be of service, and hydrargycum cum creta, in moderate doses night