609 TREATMENT OF FRACTURES. viously moistened in vinegar and water, is now to be moulded on the part externally, and retained by means of a bandage of four taUs, the centre of which rests against the chin, while the tails are brought round the top and back of the head, and fastened to the patient's nightcap. All motions of the jaws is to be strictly prohibited. The displacement in the fracture is frequently occasioned by muscular contraction, the masseter muscle raising the angle whilst the digastric and other muscles depress the symphysis. The ramus of the jaw, being covered by the masseter, is rarely fractured. When broken here, this muscle acting as a splint prevents much displacement. It IS treated as the foregoing. Fractures of the lower jaw, particularly where it has been broken in two places, are frequently followed by necrosis, and, where much violence has been used, by abscesses in the neck and fauces. In fracture of the jaw, if any of the teeth be quite loose. It IS better to extract them at once, but much caution is re- quired in so doing. Fractures of the vertebra will be considered in treating or the spine. Fracture of the sternum.—llhxs, bone is fractured only by direct violence; but httle can be done by local appli- cation. A bandage passed round the chest, so as to moderate the action of the ribs, wich a small compress directly in front of the bone may be found useful. The thoracic viscera in such injuries call for our best attention Fracture of the The middle and lower ribs are most frequently broken, being the most exposed, and sup- ported posteriorly against the spine, and in front bv the sternum. The first rib is protected by the clavicle, the last two escape fracture by their great elasticity, not beine fixed in front. The ribs are in general fractured abmu their centre, near their greatest convexity. The frar tured portions are displaced either internally or exter- nally, ^-h.ch may be ascertained by passing the finiJs along the rib from the spine forwards, and by'the crepft,? which IS frequently manifest in each act of respii-atio of he patient, or on coughing. These fractuii T ,a.e^ by placing a p.cce of soap-plaster over the parts and then surrounding the chest with a broad bandage o as to ,x strain, or at least moderate, the action of 'the rL, the" 26 §