TEACTURES. 603 mistake is more likely to take place in the lower than in the upper extremities. Crepitus is sometimes indistinct, as in fracture of the lower extremity of the fibula or ra- dius, where the bone is fixed by ligaments, and is sup- ported by the opposed boue, or in fracture of the neck of the femur, where the fracture lies deep, and the bones can with difficulty be brought into apposition. When examining for a fracture near to an articulation, we should be careful not to confound crepitation with the grating of the synovia in the interior of the joint. The loss of power of the limb is a necessary consequence of the muscles having lost the resistance of the bone, so necessary for their action, independently of the injury done to the soft parts themselves by the violence that has caused the fracture. The extent of pai7i varies much in fractures. In gene- ral It is not severe unless when the limb is moved. The capability of reducing the deformity by means of extension, and its return when the extending force ceases torms an important distinguishing feature between frac- tures and dislocations. A bone may be fractured in the transverse, oblique, or longitudinal direction. The last js seldom met with, and only when the violence is applied directly to the bone as m gun-shot wounds. It is always desirable to ascertain a prion whether the fracture is transverse or oblique as tǪer, when placed in apposition, is kept so without much difficulty, whereas the latter is liable to displacement at each contraction of the muscles, or in any motion of the parts : hence much more care is requisite after such. A dif terent hue of treatment is required in the oblique than in tfie transverse fracture. In treating the oblique fracture the position of the limb is of much consequenc ; it should be placed in such a position, if possible, as will relaftl e principal muscles connected with the fractured bones In the ransverse fracture the straight position is often 'l ^"^^^^^^ the muscles support h^ bones and they are m this position less under the infl ence of active muscular contraction nPr^w "'^ '^^P^^'^d, 1st, in such a man- ner that the upper overlaps the lower portion of the frac- ture; this IS the most frequent displacement, and occurs