592 SURGERY. Where then we operate in old persons or bad constitutions, a few days' rest after the operation is advisable. Many surgeons introduce the trocar at once without the previous incision by the lancet. The radical cure is produced by injection, incision, ex- cision, tent, caustic, and acupuncture. Injection:—As soon as the water is drawn off from the tunica Yaginalis a stimulating fluid is injected into the sac, which is aUowed to remain for a few minutes, aud is then discharged, ine canula is withdrawn, and the wound dressed. Lhe best fluids, for this purpose, are port wme mixed with water, in equal proportions, or a Httle stronger or weaker than this, according to the irritabiUty of the patient, and a solution of sulphate of zinc, in the proportion ot 53 to the pint of water; any other stimulatmg injection will answer. Many surgeons now prefer injectmg into the sac a small quantity of ^Tincture of Iodine, from one to two drachms, and leaving it there to excite inflammatory action. When a case proceeds favorably, some inflammation appears on the second or third day after the operation, as indicated by heat, pain and redness of the scrotum, and a return of the swelling, the tumour frequently attaining as _ large a size as before the operation, caused by an ettusion of serum into the tunica vaginahs. Towards the close of the week, the inflammation gradually subsides and the swelling disappears, so that the cure is completed in he course of ten days. The cure is accomplished by the effusion of coagulable lymph, which causes the complete or partial obliteration of the sac of the tumca ^^S'^^^^i^ by Ldhesion of its opposed surfaces; and those parts w ch do not adhere are hned by an adventitious n^embrai e which has not the power of secreting ^^^''''''^''1^^ enlargement of the testis remains after the operation, which may not disappear for many weeks. In some cases the operation for the radical cuie of hydrocele is not followed by sufficient inflammation ; then the patient should be directed to walk about, and be allowed a generous diet, so as to excite the requisite inflammatory action. On the contrary, it may be followed by too great a degree of inflammation; here, the use of leeches, to- meutations, purgative medicines, and a low diet, becomes necessary, aided, if required, by bleeding from the arm.