550 SURGERY. Poupart's ligament to them. In inguinal hernia, if -we draw up the tumour, Poupart's ligament maybe in general distinctly traced with the fingers from the ilium to the pubes ; but, on the contrary if we draw it downwards on the thigh, the hernia is felt crossing the ligament. If the disease be femoral, the elevation of the tumour will cause it to cross Poupart's ligament; its depression will leave the ligament fi'ee. Having satisfied ourselves that the disease is strangulated femoral hernia, and that the operation is indispensable, we proceed to its performance. Place the patient in the horizontal posture on a table of convenient height, with his legs hanging over its edge, and his shoulders a little elevated. Make the first incision along the tumour, in a nearly transverse direction, about half an inch below Poupart's ligament, from the centre of this carry your second incision about two inches in length upwards toward the umbilicus, you will thus have made a wound of an inverted x shape, dividing the in- tegument, and bringing into view the superficial fascia. In this the external pudic and superficial epigastric arteries may be divided; if the haemorrhage be troublesome, they should be secured with the ligature. Take care to avoid the saphena vein, •which lies a short distance beneath your transverse incision. The operation above described is the proceeding of Sir A. Cooper, but is not uniformly adopted by surgeons. Some make an incision parallel with, and just below, Poupart's ligament, over the tumour; some make a semilunar incision; others pinch up the skin over the hernia, and slit it up in the direction of the tumour, and divide layer after layer cautiously. Next proceed to divide the coverings of the hernial tumour, viz., superficial fascia, fascia propria, and hernial sac, in the cautious manner recommended when speaking of inguinal hernia. The contents of the sac having been exposed, you proceed to ascer- tain with the little finger the seat of stricture; this is at the femoral ring, but at what part ? This is a question extremely diflacult to decide upon. Sir A. Cooper directs us to cut upwards, forwards, and inwards, taking care to draw the spermatic cord out of the way if we operate on the male subject. Mr. Colles advises the division of the " pectineal attachment of the fascia lata." Gimbernat advocates the division of the base of the third insertion of Poupart's ligament, and this we may say is the operation preferred at the present day. It is accomplished by drawing the intestine outwards, and intro- ducing the probe-pointed bistoury on a director, (if that can be accomplished, if not on the finger,) and then cutting directly inwards through the liase of Girabernat's ligament. The stricture being divided, the hernia is to be returned, which may be accom-