420 PHYSIOLOGY, Pus is ordinarily a viscid liquid of a creamy colour and consistence, inclining to a yellowish-green, opaque and homogeneous. It is inodorous, possessing a feeble taste, neither acid nor alkaline, though it becomes acid on exposure to the air with the disengagement of ammonia. Examined by the microscope it appears to be composed of a fluid and corpuscles. It is not soluble in water, sub- siding after a time. "When pus and mucus exist together in a fluid the former falls, the latter remaining in a state of suspension. Pus is coagulable by heat and diluted acids. It is soluble in strong nitric or sulphuric acids. Brunefield asserts that whilst pus is coagulated by boiling with hydrochlorate of ammonia, mucus forms a mucUaginous liquid with it. Caustic alkali does not coagulate pus but forms with it a gelatinous mass capable of being drawn out into threads. This is one of the best means of dis- tinguishing it from mucus. Chalk stones, or gouty concretions, are composed almost entirely of uric acid, combined with soda. Syjiovia is composed of water, fibrinous matter, albumen, and salts of soda and lime. The tears contain albumen, mucus, water, and several neutral salts. Gastric juice having been obtained by Dr. Beaumont m a much more separate and pure state than previously, its composition may be stated with considerable accuracy to be.as follows: Free Hydrochloric and Acetic Acids; Phosphates of Soda, Potash, Magnesia, and Lime; Hydrochlorates of the same bases ; Pepsin, Animal matters, and Extractives. Among the constituents of the gastric juice just mentioned, the pepsin, to which a very prominent position has been assigned by some authors, has been considered as of no particular importance by others, and, indeed, its very existence has been sometimes entirely denied by certain physiologists. _ . The following is the chemical composition of the prin- cipal tissues of the body. This is composed of two principal portions, the earthy and animal. The former is easily removed by hydrochloric acid, the latter is entirely destructible by