238 ANATOMY. unite into one vessel, which is named by some anatomists azygos minor inferior. It generally crosses the spine to pass into the vena azygos on the right side. The use of the azygos system of veins is not only to return the blood from the neighbouring veins, but also to establish a communication between the superior and in- ferior venae cavEe, and between the vessels of the two sides of the body. When the inferior vena cava is obstructed, much of the blood from the lower limbs and abdomen may reach the heart through the medium of the vena ^^^hl'thoracic duct, the largest trunk of the absorbent system, commences at the third lumbar vertebra, by an en- larged extremity, termed receptaculum chyli, formed by the union of the absorbents of the lower extremities and pelvis, and ioined by the lacteals ; it passes up through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, between the aorta and vena azygos ; rather above these it quits the mesial line, and runs up behind the aorta, ascends in the neck as high as the sixth cervical vertebra, curves downwards, and terminates in the angle formed by the left subclavian and internal iuo-ular veins. It receives the chyle as well as the lymph from the inferior extremities, the left upper extremity the left side of the head and neck, and the left lung. There is a corresponding duct, but of much smaller size, on the riffht side. This receives the lymph only from the right side of the head and neck, the right lung, the light upper extremity, and the surface of the liver. It is called the ductus lymphaticus dexter, or thoracicus minor. ABDOMEN. The abdomen is separated from the chest by the dia- phragm, which is a broad flat expanded muscle, the largest of the body. . . . , The Diaphragm is best described as consisting of two muscles and a central tendon. The large muscle arises from the ensiform cartilage, the inside of the cartilages ot the six lower ribs, and the true and false Ugaraenta arcuata ; from which points the fibres converge, and are inserted into the central tendon. • „ The small muscle consists of the crura, which arise on the right side from the fore part of the bodies and sides of the