429 DESCRIPTION OF THE TISSUES. three coats, which have been named external or cellular middle or elastic, and internal serous or proper lining coat. Many anatomists of late years, assisted by the microscope, describe several layers, amounting to six or seven. Thus the internal layer may be divided into two, the innermost constituting the epithelium, the outer one is thin, formed of elastic, longitudinal, and some tranverse fibres, named th.Q fenestrated ov pei-foratedmQmhvajie. The middle coat again is divided by some into two layers, the internal one containing involuntary muscular fibres, the outer being purely elastic. The outer cellular coat also consists of two layers, the inner one composed of yellow elastic fibres, the outer of white inelastic fibres and areolar tissue. Arteries are supplied with numerous small nutritious arterial branches, called vasa vasorum, and receive their nerves from the sympathetic. Veins.—Hhe veins, Uke the arteries, ramify throughout the whole body. The leading points of difference between the two are the following: The veins are as a rule much more lax and capacious than the arteries, as well as more numerous ; so that the venous blood in the body at any one time exceeds by at least twice the amount that is contained in the arterial system To this rule the pulmonary circulation is the only ex- ception. The veins are arranged in two leading sets, the super- ficial and the deep, the former accompanying no arteries the latter running along the sides of arteries as vence conites or satellites; the smaller arteries have two or more ven^ comites, the larger have only one. In structure, the veins are much the thinner in their coats ; tliey are, however, the same in number and kind as in the arteries, the only difference being tliat the lonffitu- dinal fibrous coat is extremely well developed, whilst the others are very thin, and scarcely discernible The in ternal coat however, is thrown at certain distances in^o folds, which form the valves of the veins; these p?e en? heir free, sharp, concave edge towards the heart so hey favour the onward passage of the venous blood wl ils they a most entirely check its return. The verrW tare), as well as the very largest, have no valves. The