SUEGEEY. 662 forming of a correct diagnosis on the part of the prac- titioner. If the tumour be now examined, it will present all the symptoms characteristic of the disease. Thus we recog- nise a tumour possessing a pulsation corresponding to the systole and diastole of the heart, and at each im- pulse of this organ not only pulsating, but undergoing a considerable increase in size, to be distinguished in many cases by the eye, but in all by the practitioner grasping the tumour in his hand, and making slight pressure on it at the same time. This alternate distension and dimi- nution of the tumour is produced by the ingress and egress of the blood into its interior at each beat of the heart. By compressing the tumour it may be made to disappear altogether, or diminish in size, from the fluid blood being forced from it back into the cavity of the artery. On compressing the artery leading to the sweUing, the following symptoms present themselves: the tumour loses its pulsation and disappears, but again becomes manifest as soon as the compression is removed. Pressure on the artery below the tumour has the efi'ect of causing an increase in its size and pulsation. At this period the integuments covering the tumour are free from any dis- coloration, and the patient feels Uttle or no uneasiness from the disease. Occasionally sUght pain exists, but this is not serious until the disease attains a larger size and presses on some of the surrounding nerves. On applying the ear or the stethoscope to the aneurismal swelling, a distinct blowing or purring sound is frequently heard. It is only when aneurism appears at or near to the surface, so as to be exposed either to the eye or the touch, that a correct diagnosis can be hoped for; when the aorta is the seat of the disease, no distinct symptoms present tliemselves, until the tumour approaches the surface, the only pain present being produced by the pressure of the tumour on the surrounding organs, and which gives rise to a complexity equally distressing to the patient and embarrassing to the practitioner. This may be called the first stage of aneurism. Let us now proceed to the second or more advanced stage. The blood being impelled into the aneurismal