326 BEGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. with the long axis directed downwards, and slightly for- wards, and with angles rounded off. Each is bounded above by the body of the sphenoid bone, below by the palatine process of the palate bone, externally by the inner surface of the internal pterygoid plate, internally by the posterior margin of the vomer, which forms the septum of the posterior nares. On each side of the posterior nares, and opposite the posterior extremity of the inferior spongy bone, is the opening of the Eustachian tube; this is circular and some- what trumpet-shaped, and is directed forwards and inwards towards the septum narium, and is formed of cartilage, lined by mucous membrane. To enter the opening of each Eustachian tube a probe may be passed along the inferior or middle meatus, into the tube itself, for the removal of any obstruction which sometimes exists in it and produces deafness. The probe should be first bent for this purpose, and then directed backwards and outwards along the meatus. Beneath the posterior nares is the— VELXJM PENDULUM PALATI, OE SOFT PALATE. This is a soft musculo-membranous septum, which par- tially divides the upper from the lower part of the pharynx, and separates the cavity of the mouth from the posterior nares. It is somewhat quadrilateral in shape; one margin is turned upwards and forwards, and is attached to the hard palate and posterior edge of the palate bone; the other margin is free, and is directed downwards and backwards, and has the uvula depending from its centre, on each side of which it is arched, forming the half arches of the palate ; on each side, the velum is attached, by means of the pillars of the fauces, to the tongue and pharynx. One surface of the velum is turned forwards and slightly downwards, the other is directed backw&rds and a little upwards; they both vary much in position according to the action of the muscles; for, during deglutition, the velum is raised and becomes horizontal. In structure, the velum is composed of muscular fibres, glands, blood-vessels, nerves, and a delicate aponeurosis covered by mucous membrane. The proper muscidar fibres consist of three muscles on either side, viz., the levator 2}alati, tensor palati, and motor