547 FEMOEAL HERNIA. sertion of Poupart's ligament, from the pubic extremity of which it extends obhquely inwards and backwards, to be inserted into the ileo-pectineal line: it is triangular in shape, the apex turned inwards towards the pubes; its base, directed outwards, is semilunar, and forms the inner boundary of the femoral ring; one edge is turned for- wards, and is attached to Poupart's ligament; the other is directed backwards and inwards, and is implanted into the ileo-pectineal line. Gimbernat's ligament is of use in preventing the descent of a femoral hernia on the inner side of the femoral ring. It is generally considered to be the seat of stricture in strangulated femoral hernia. The femoral ring possesses in many subjects a relation which should not be overlooked; viz., to the obturator artery. This vessel in general arises from the internal Iliac artery. Where this is the case, it can have no relation to a femoral hernia; but in numerous instances it will be found to arise from the internal epigastric, close to the origin of this vessel from the external iliac artery. Now, as Its ultimate distribution is to the parts in the neighbourhood of the obturator foramen, it necessarily follows, when such is its origin, that, in order to arrive at this foramen, it must cross the femoral ring, and con- sequently a femoral hernia, if such should exist. As it proceeds to the foramen, it may either pass directly to it along the oiiter side of the neck of the hernia; or it may first pass along its posterior surface, and then enter the foramen; or it may wind along the anterior surface of the neck of the sac, and then descend to its inner side. For- tunately this last course is the least frequent of the three (occurring, according to Mr. Lawrence, but once in a huudred operations,) for when the artery is so related to a femoral hernia, it is exceedingly difficult to avoid it. should we be called on to operate, particularly if the operator should prefer the division of Gimbernat's liea! ment for the relief of the stricture. ^ There is no point perhaps connected with femoral hernia respecting which surgeons are more a varTance than as to what forms the stricture in tirdiseale when strangulated. We have Gimbernat, Hey, and Burns eacE contendmg that his ligament is the offender so th;t the practitioner is left completely in doubt as to 'the tit sea