ANATOMY. 38 femur, except that its extremities are rather more spongy; its medullary canal is well marked; it is supphed with blood-vessels from the neighbouring trunks, which enter as in the femur. This bone is developed by three points of ossification, one for the body, and one for each extremity; the tubercle is occasionally distinct from the rest of the bone, but soon becomes consolidated with it; sometimes the internal malleolus appears to be formed separately: the principal nutritious artery enters at the posterior surface, just below the insertion of the popliteus muscle. This bone is completely ossified at about twenty years of age- Muscles attached to the Tibia: To external surface .... Tibialis aniicus. external tuberosity . . . Extensor lonyus digitornm. By the ligamentum patellae . The extensors of the leg. The Fibula, much smaller than the tibia, is dinded into a superior or tibial extremity, a neck, a body, and an inferior or tarsal extremity; the superior extremity, called also the head of the fibula, is round aud irregular, and presents on its inner side a smooth cartilaginous surface, for articulation with the tibia ; from its external and posterior part ascends a long-pointed process, which gives attachment to the ligaments connecting the fibula and tibia together, to the external lateral ligament of the knee joint, and the tendon of the biceps flexor cruris ; it is sometimes grooved posteriorly for the tendon of the popliteus muscle. The neck of the fibula is that part immediately below the head; it is smooth and round ex- ternally where the peroneal nerve winds round it. The body or shaft of the bone is triangular, especially in its centre; it descends obhquely forwards aud inwards, so that its lower extremity is on a plane anterior aud internal to the upper; it is twisted like all long bones, aud curves a little outwards, and may be divided into three surfaces, inner surface Semimembranosus. Popliteus. Soleus. Tibialis posticus. Flexor longiis digitorum. posterior surface .