568 SURGEllY. with in connection with the early stages of gonorrhoea; they will be described under the head of Venereal Disease. ON STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. Stricture is an obstruction to the flow of urine through the urethra, caused by the spasmodic action of the muscles, or some alteration in the size of the canal, and is one of the most frequent, though remote, consequences of gonor- rhoea, seldom appearing till some years after this disease has disappeared. Its supervention to gonorrhoea has been attributed to the use of astringent injections rather than to the gonorrbceal inflammation; but this may be well questioned. Strictures occasionally form in individuals who have never had an attack of gonorrhoea; indeed, the most severe forms of the disease result from mechanical injury to the urethra, such as falls on the perineum, &c. Strictures have been divided into the permanent, spasmodic, and mixed. By jjemanew^ strictures are meant those de- pending upon a permanent alteration in the size of the canal, caused either by an efi"usion of lymph into the sub- mucous cellular tissue of the urethra, or on the surface of the . mucous membrane. Spasmodic stricture is that caused by the spasmodic contraction of the muscular fibres surrounding the urethra. Mixed stricture is that in which the pro- minent form of the disease is attended with a spasmodic contraction of the surrounding muscles. Permanent stric- tures are divided into the packthread, bridle, and long continued: the packthread is that in which there is a cir- cular narrowing of the canal, as if a thread were tied tightly around it: the bridle stricture is when a band of lymph crosses the urethra; and the long continued that in which a considerable longitudinal extent of the canal is engaged, and may be either on one or other of its surfaces, or occupying its whole circumference. The most usual seat of stricture is about the bulb, but there is much difference of opinion as to its precise situation; some contend that it is most frequently met with in front of, others saybehmd, the bulb ; there is no part of the canal wholly exempt from the affection. At the London College, it is considered to be most frequent in the anterior portion of the membranous part of the urethra. . The earliest symptom of a stricture is the retention ot a