632 SUKGEBT. the bone unite with those of the soft parts, and the ulcer heals. Malignant diseases of hone.—Although the osseous system is more frequently affected by tlie spread of malignant diseases to it from the neiglibouring parts, still it is liable to a primary cancerous affection: this is usually called osteo-sarcoma. This disease is most fre- quently met -with in the bones of the face, particularly the inferior maxilla, the long bones, and the ossa inno- minata. It commences with a deeply-seated pain in the bone, which after some time becomes enlarged, forming a distinct tumour or swelHng: this is hard and affected with lancinating pains. By degrees the soft parts become in- flamed, and at length giving way a fungus issues from the diseased mass, as in cancer of the soft parts. As soon as the disease has been ascertained, it should be removed. This may be done by extirpation of the diseased bone, or amputation of the limb. The tumour is found to be com- posed in some cases of a homogeneous greyish, yellowish, lard-like substance ; in others spiculse of bone are met with ; and in many, cells or cysts containing a medullary- looking substance, clots of blood, &c. Exostosis is a term which implies a morbid growth from a bone, and is usually understood to be of an osseous nature. It is also improperly applied to other diseases of bones, some of which have been before alluded to. Of real exostosis there are three varieties, viz., solid, hollow, and foliated. The solid species includes a node, and also other projections, which attnin a greater elevation above the surface of the bone. This is most common in the lower jaw, tibia, and femur, and occurs at or after the adult age. Excision is sometimes necessary for its re- moval, and the use of dilute phosphoric acid administered internally has been recommended, under the impression that it would dissolve the phosphate of lime, the largest constituent of the morbid growth. The other two varieties are connected witii formation of soft matter, and are most frequently observed on the extremities. A variety of exostosis, named the dense or ivory exos- tosis, is described by Miller and others. It occurs most frequently upon the hones of the cranium externally, and consists of deposits of a hemispherical form, which attain a considerable degree of hardness.