ANATOMY. 174 The pneumogastric nerve has different functions, ac- cording to the parts to which it is distributed. The spinal accessory appears to be only a motor nerve. The ninth cerebral nerve, called the hypoglossal, is the motor nerve of the tongue. Its function is undisputed. The spinal nerves consist of thirty-one pairs: eight cervical, including the suboccipital, twelve dorsal, five lumbar, and six sacral nerves. They arise by two fasciculi: those from the front give the power of motion ; those from behind give sensation : they pass through the dura mater, then unite and perforate the lateral foramina of the vertebral canal, dividing into an anterior and posterior series. The anterior are generally the largest. A ganglion is formed on the posterior fasci- culus, within the inter-vertebral foramen, before the union of the two branches. CEKVICAL NEUVES. The first cervical, or suboccipital, the smallest of the series, passes out of the spinal canal between the occipital bone and arch of the atlas ; it then appears in the triangular space bounded by the rectus capitis posticus and obhque muscles, and divides into an anterior and posterior branch. The posterior one gives filaments to the small adjacent muscles and complexus, and a descending filament to the next nerve. The anterior branch runs forwards to the anterior surface of the spinal column, where it gives off the following filaments: One to the second cervical nerve, descending before the atlas, and forming the nervous loop of the atlas. „ nervus vagus. „ lingual nerve and first cervical ganghon. The next three cervical nerves, uniting together by an- terior descending branches, are described as forming the cervical plexus. Their posterior branches maybe described as given off separately. The second cervical nerve emerges between the atlas and vert, dentata. The posterior branch named great occipital nerve, larger than the anterior, runs upwards and backwards towards the occiput, and perforates the complexus muscle; after which it ascends with the occipital artery, and is distributed over the scalp, communicating with the frontal