728 SURGERY. scirrhus mammae may be selected to point out the course ot this formidable disease. Cancer usually makes its appearance in the female breast from the age of forty to fifty, when the catamenia are about to cease, and more frequently in single than in married women. Some ascribe its origin to a blow on the part, or the pressure of some portion of the dress, as the upper part of the stays ; whilst others can assign no cause for its commence- ment. It first appears as a small, hard, indolent, and moveable tumour in some part of the breast, knotty and irregular to the touch. From this it gradually increases in size, and becomes painful, sharp lancinating pains darting through it in diff"erent directions. As the diseased mass enlarges, it contracts adhesion to the surrounding parts, to the muscles behind, the skin in front, and thus becomes partially fixed. There is now an increase in the pain, together with a remarkable retraction of the nipple, and the veins on the surface become much enlarged and varicose. Soon after the gland becomes adherent to the skin; this inflames, gradually thins, and at last gives way, when the scirrhus becomes an open cancer, presenting an irregularly ulcerated surface, which rapidly increases, until it occupies a large portion of the tumour. The cancerous ulcer thus formed is circular in shape, its surface is irregular, and covered with hard fungous gra- nulations, giving it a cauliflower appearance; these granulations bleed on the slightest injury. The centre of the ulcer is depressed, or hollowed out into a cavity, which is partially filled with a fetid ichorous matter, while the edges are everted. The discharge is profuse, and consists of two kinds, a thin and extremely fetid, ichorous matter, which flows freely, and a more tenacious lymph-hke fluid, which adheres to the surface. The lancinating pains are now extremely severe, but are occasionally relieved by a discharge of blood from the surface. There is also a burning heat complained of over the ulcerated surface. On examination, tlie neighbouring lymphatic glands in the neck, axilla, &c. will be found much enlarged, and frequently painful, the pain being either that of common inflammation, or the lancinating pain of scirrhus. The constitution too sympathises much, however free it may have been (as sometimes is the case) before the ulcer