560 SURGERY. and frequency until they are at length followed by a fixed pain. There is generally obstinate constipation, but faeces may be voided in small quantity when the omentum only is strangulated. The abdomen now becomes not only tense, but tender to the touch; the patient lies on his back with his limbs drawn up, and his head supported, that he may relax the abdominal muscles; the bowels are still constipated, the vomiting and eructation continue; the pulse becomes hard, frequent, and wiry, and the patient is covered with a cold perspiration. The tumour now becomes very tense and hard, in general a little inflamed on the surface of the skin, and tender to the touch. In this stage the most active treatment becomes ne- cessary. Chloroform, the warm bath, heated from 95 to 100 degrees, bleeding ad deliquium, purgatives, emollient enemata, opiates, cold applications to the tumour, and the tobacco enema, should be had recourse to, if the case will admit of sufficient delay for their adoption. In the selection of these various remedies, the practi- tioner must be guided by the peculiarities of the case, as treatment which will be of much benefit in one may be fatal to another. Thus, if the patient be young and plethoric, and the strangulation acute, bleeding and the warm bath, used for ten or fifteen minutes, so as to induce fainting, will be of much service in relaxing the tension of the parts, and in controlling the peritoneal inflam- mation ; whereas, in the old subject, and in chronic strangulation, their adoption may sink the vital powers, and lead to a fatal termination. So it is with the tobacco enema. The use of purgatives is condemned by some, on the grounds that they will not rest on the stomach, and rather increase the irritability of this organ, yet they will be found useful in the chronic strangulation. Opiates are not often resorted to. The best form of cold application to the tumour is pounded ice contained in bladders, or, when this cannot be procured, a mixture of equal parts of nitre and muriate of ammonia, say ten ounces of the mixed salts to one pint of water. Ether allowed to evaporate on the surface of the tumour forms a good substitute for these remedies. Care must be taken that the cold