166 ANATOMY. The third pair, or molores omlorum, arise from the inner edge of the crura cerebri; they always run downwards and forwards, between the posterior artery of the cerebrum, and anterior artery of the cerebellum, then perforate the dura mater, pass along the inner side of the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, then traverse the sphenoidal fissure, enter the orbit between the heads of the external rectus, and divide into two portions, superior and inferior. The superior portion gives off a branch to the superior rectus, and another to the levator palpebrse superioris ; the inferior portion, larger, gives off three branches, one to the internal rectus, one to the inferior rectus, and the third to the inferior oblique muscle. The last gives a filament to the lenticular ganglion. They all run along the ocular surface of the muscles. In the cavernous sinus, this nerve is at first situated higher than the other nerves, but, on passing into the orbit, it is below them; just before entering, it communicates with the carotic plexus and ophthalmic division of the fifth. The fourth pair, or pathetici, arise from the valve ot Vieussens, immediately beneath the tubercula quadrige- mina; they run along the side of the pons variolii, perforate the dura mater, pass within the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, then through the sphenoidal fissure, and are distri- buted to the trochlearis, or superior obhque muscle of the eye They are the smallest and longest of the cerebral nerves within the cranium. In the orbit they mount up over the levator palpebrse muscle, lying between it and the periosteum; and, as they enter the orbit, are the highest of the orbital nerves. Arnold describes a small branch from this nerve in the cranium, which runs back upon the tentorium almost as far as the lateral sinus. The Jlfth pair of nerves, or trigemini, resemble spinal nerves, being both for motion and sensation, and having, like them, a double origin. They seem to emerge from the junction of the pons varolii with the crura cerebelli. The anterior or smallest fasciculus may be traced to the corpus pyramidale. The large posterior fasciculus, com- posed of nearly a hundred filaments, is derived from the corpus restiforrae, conferring sensation. The nerve ot each side passing forwards, enters a sheath of dura mater upon the petrous bone, and the posterior root, by ex-