181 DORSAL.NERTES. One named posterior interosseous, which descends with the deep- seated extensor muscles, as far as the back of the carpus. It supplies the muscles in its course. The filaments of the musculo-spiral given oS before its division, are the following: Muscular twigs to the inner and middle head of the triceps. Internal cutaneous to the inner side of the arm. Muscular branches to the external head of the triceps anconeus, supinator longus, extensor carpi radialis longior, and frequently the brachialis anticus. External cutaneous branches, the superior smallest, accompanying the cephalic vein as far as the elbow, the inferior extending along the back of the arm and forearm, as far as the wrist. In addition to the nerves above described as coming from the brachial plexus, the inside of the arm is supplied with branches given off from the second aud third inter- costal, and have been named the cutaneous nerves of Wrisberg; but which occasionally proceed from the bra- chial plexus. DOSSAL NERVES. The dorsal or intercostal nerves are twelve on each side. They emerge from the intervertebral foramina; the first between the first and second dorsal, the last between the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebra. Immediately after their exit they divide, like the cervical, into anterior and posterior branches ; the posterior branches run backwards between the transverse processes of the vertebr^e to supply the deep muscles of the back and the integuments. The anterior branches named also intercostal, run along the intercostal spaces, below the vein and artery, and near the margin of each rib, between the external and intercostal muscles; about midway between the spine and sternum they give off a large superficial branch. The continued portion of the seven superior nerves is distributed to the intercostal muscles and triangularis sterni, and then perforates these, to be lost finally in the pectoralis maior and integuments. The next four intercostal nerves, corresponding with the four superior false ribs, on reaching the ends of the cartilages, pass forwards between the internal oblique aud transversahs muscles to reach the rectus abdominis sup- plying filaments to all these muscles.