HYDKOCELE. 593 If sufficient care be not taken in preforming the opera- tion of tapping a hydrocele, the testis may be wounded; this accident may be followed by severe inflammation of the gland, and may terminate fatally. Whilst injecting, too, the end of the canula may shp from out the tunica vaginahs, and the fluid will escape into the cellular tissue of the scrotum. The occurrence of this accident may be known, by the great difliculty experienced in im- pelling forward the fluid, and by its not escaping after- wards freely through the canula. When this mistake has occurred, incisions should be made at once into the scro- tum, so as to cause the discharge of the fluid, and prevent the sloughing of the scrotum, so likely otherwise to ensue. The operation for the radical cure of hydrocele has been, occasionally, followed by such a severe degree of inflammation, as to induce mortification and sloughing of the integuments of the scrotum. In somewhat milder cases, abscesses have formed in the scrotum. In cases of hydro-sarcocele, where the hydrocele is complicated with an enlargement of the testis, it is better to remove the .disease of the gland before resorting to the operation, as it occasionally occurs that when the disease of the testes has been removed, the fluid in the tunica vaginahs be- comes absorbed. Excision consists in dissecting out and removing the tunica vaginahs. This is au exceedingly dangerous opera- tion, and is now never resorted to. Some recommend the cutting away a small portion only. It is seldom practised except in cases where the tunica vaginalis is much thick- ened, and the operation by injection has failed to produce the requisite degree of inflammation. Incision consists in cutting into the tunica va->-iualis and filling the cavity with lint. It is scarcely ever ner- formed at present. ^ In this method of treating hydrocele, an inci- sion is made into the tunica vaginalis, and a dossil of lint or piece of sponge introduced, through the opening, into Seton:-l!hh operation may be preformed by passing a probe armed with a seton, (through the canula after of □eiore ine water uas been drawn off;) to tiie upper part of