549 STRANGULATED FEMOKAL HERNIA. made before proceeding to the operation. Thus, for instance, A varicose state of the saphena and femoral veins, near to Poupart's ligament, has been confounded with a femoral hernia. We can easily distinguish between them in the following manner. Place the patient in the recumbent posture, reduce the tumour, make pressure on the femoral ring ; if it be a hernia, the tumour will not reappear; if it be a varicose state of the vein, the pressure will rather increase it. Again, if the pressure be applied beneath, the tumour will reappear on the patient's standing up It It be a hernia, but not so if it be a varicose state of the veins. ^ Enlargement of the inferior set of inguinal glands may oe confounded with a femoral hernia. In some cases we can recognise the glands by their circumscribed shape • the absence of any neck to the tumour leading into the femoral nug, and their greater solidity; in others, on the contrary, it is impossible to ascertain the true nature of the disease m consequence of the small size of the tumour the fat condition of the patient, and the thickened state of the absorbents which pass through the femoral rin- and resemble the neck of the sac. In such cases, should the symptoms of strangulation continue unrelieved, the surcreon is justified in cutting down ou the tumour to ascertain its nature. We have known eminent surgeons to cut down on an enlarged gland in mistake for a femoral hernia. It should be borne in mind too that a hernia may be con cealed behmd an enlarged gland, which wiU add much to tlie ditfaculty of the diagnosis. Psoas abscess pointing beneath Poupart's ligament mav be mistaken for a femoral hernia. The two LZT.hZ many symptoms in common, viz., the situation of the amour, the impulse on coughing, their disappearance on the patient 8 assuming the recumbent posture^ They may be distinguished, whilst the patient is in this no.S relaxing the abdominal musLs, and aUern teTy ^^ with each hand on the iliac and femoral regions^ when Tf the disease be an abscess, the fluctuation of the malter wi 1 at once point it out. mauer wui An inguinal hernia too mav bp f>r.r,e i i repeal, we di..i„g„i3h betC^ t^'^tm^