152 ANATOMY. When the body of the fornix is removed we bring into view the tela choroidea or velum interpositum. The velum interpositum is a triangular, membranous expansion, in which ramify numerous minute veins and arteries; its apex anteriorly is continuous with the choroid plexuses -which have passed through the foramen of Monro, whilst its base (which is posterior) is situated close to the fissure of Bichat, through which it passes. In it run the Vense Galeni, which finally unite into one, and which, with the inferior longitudinal sinus, combine to form the straight sinus. When this velum is raised we expose the fissure called the third ventricle. The third ventricle, (which may be easily shown by cutting through and reflecting, and removing the velum interpositum and the fornix,) is a small narrow cavity lying between the optic thalami. It is bounded anteriorly by the anterior commissure and the anterior crura, or pillars of the fornix, posteriorly by the posterior commissure, the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum and corpora quadrigemina; its roof is formed by the fornix and velum interpositum ; its floor, (which is very short,) is formed by the lamina cinerea, tuber cine- reum and infundibulum, corpora albicantia, and locus per- foratas, (or pons Tarini,) whilst its sides are formed by the thalami optici, and very slightly by the corpora striata. The middle or soft commissure crosses the middle of the third ventricle, and almost entirely fills its cavity. Two other commissures exist here, named anterior and posterior. The anterior commissure is a medullary band, uniting the corpora striata, in front of the anterior pillars of the fornix. The tniddle commissure, or commissura moUis, composed of grey matter, connects the two optic thalami extensively together; it is so soft that it is generally found broken when the ventricle is opened. Between it and the anterior commissure, along the floor of the ventricle, is an opening, leading into the infundibulum terminating in a cul-de-sac, called the Iter ad Infundibidum. The posterior commissure is a rounded white cord con- necting the thalami optici posteriorly. It lies over the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum and under the Pineal gland.