296 EEGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. in the foetus, the internal carotid is larger, as the brain ■which it supplies, is well developed; whilst the face, which is supplied by the branches of the external carotid, is but little advanced in its formation. These vessels are named from the parts to which they are distributed, the internal supplying the brain, the external the face and external regions of the cranium, but not from their relative position. Let us consider, first— The external carotid artery. This vessel lies, at its origin, anterior and internal to the internal carotid ; it first passes upwards and inwards towards the submaxillary gland, then passes backwards behind the angle of the jaw, and finally enters the substance of the parotid gland between the ramus of the jaw and the external meatus auditorius, where it terminates, about midway, between the angle of the jaw and the zygoma, but somewhat nearer the latter, by dividing into the internal maxillary and temporal arteries. In its course, the external carotid is somewhat curved, the convexity directed inwards, towards the pharynx and tonsil, and is, comparatively speaking, superficial, except whilst lodged in the parotid gland. The external carotid artery, a little after its origin, is crossed by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles. It may be usefully divided into three stages, the first being from its origin to where it is crossed by the digas- tric muscle; the second, from this point to its entrance into the parotid gland; the third, whilst it is lodged in the gland. In the first and second stages, the external carotid is superficial, being covered only by the integuments, pla- tysma, and cervical fascia; a little below the digastric muscle it is crossed by the lingual nerve, which here liooks round the occipital artery. At its commencement, it rests on the superior laryngeal nerve, the pharyngeal plexus, and some cellular tissue, which connects it to the internal carotid and side of the pharynx; above this, and near the angle of the jaw, it is supported by the stylo- glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, the glosso-pharyn- geal nerve, and a portion of the parotid gland, all of which parts separate it from the internal carotid. Immediately after the origin of the external carotid, the internal jugular vein leaves it to accompany the internal carotid; above