SURGERY. 604 from the muscles acting principally on tlie lower part of the limb: 2dly, so that the lower overlaps the upper frac- ture; this is rare: 3dly, in the lateral direction; that is when one fractured portion is thrown to the side of the other; 4thly, so as to form an angle sahent either ante- riorly or posteriorly; 5thly, in regard to the circumference of the fractured bone; that is, when the bone is rotated on its own axis, so that the lateral and posterior surface of one part may correspond to the anterior surface of the other portion. TREATMENT OF FRACTURES. The treatment of fractures is comparatively simple; it consists in restoring the bones to their natural position, securing them in that state, and finally obviating or re- moving any unpleasant symptoms that may be likely to occur, or have chiefly taken place. It is only when the bones have undergone displacement that the surgeon is required to disturb the limb. When this has taken place the bones are replaced in situ by means of extension, counter-extension, and coaptation or setting. Before resorting to extension, the limb should be placed in such a situation, if possible, as to relax the principal muscles, as our object is to avoid, as much as we possibly can, the resistance afforded by muscular contraction, which forms the principal impediment to our success. The extending force should now be applied to the lower part of the limb, avoiding the immediate seat of the fracture, and the limb drawn in the direction of the bone fractured, or as near this as the displacement of the fractured portion will admit of. The counter-extension, on the contrary, is applied above the fracture, and consists merely in passive resist- ance to extending power. The extension should be made cautiously and gradually, as otherwise the muscles will be thrown into spasmodic contraction, and may baffle all our attempts. When any difficulty is experienced froni the violent contraction of the muscles, the abstraction of blood from the arm, or the administration of tartar emetic will assist our efforts much; it is seldom that these reme- dies are required. As soon as the fractured portions are thus brought into apposition, they are to be placed in their natural position.