SURGEEY. 500 arrested in it. The instrument is to be allowed to remain until the polypus drops away, which will take place in a few days. • During the interval the wire should be tightened daily, by the twisting of the canula. It is safer to remove the polypus with the forceps as soon as it appears to be. sufficiently detached than to allow it to drop away, as it may cause much distress by falling into the lower part of the pharynx. Excision is performed with a blunt-pointed scissors or a probe-pointed bistoury; it should never be practised, as the subsequent hsemorrhage is frequently alarming, and the root of the disease is still left. Caustic is objection- able from the difficulty of applying it in the proper place, and from its liability to spread. Children and young per- sons are subject to a relaxed state of the Schneiderian membrane of the nose, which should not be mistaken for a polypus. The application of the nitrate of silver solution will in general be sufficient for its removal. Hydatid polypi are generally met with in young people. They are easily ruptured, and when broken pour out a quantity of watery fluid. They are best treated by the chloride of antimony or some other escharotic. Fungoid polypi are vascular, and cannot be removed from the haemorrhage which ensues on the attempt being made. They extend so as to occupy the whole of the nasal cavity. Sir A. Cooper recommends the use of the chloride of antimony. Astringent injections may be em- ployed with safety and propriety. Carcinomatous polypi appear in advanced hfe, and grow from the septum and roof of the nose. When examined they present an irregular surface, are of a deep red or pur- ple colour, and are found to be attached by an extensive basis or root. They are attended with shooting, lancmating pains, which extend to the root of the nose and forehead, are not afiected by the weather, and discharge a thm ichorous matter, and frequently blood. The granulations on the surface are hard, and bleed from slight injury. The constitution indicates a cancerous diathesis, present- ing that leaden colour of the skin, so remarkable in this disease. Palliative means only can be resorted to, as any attempt at extirpation would only increase the affec- tion, and induce, perhaps, a fatal haemorrhage. Opium and other narcotics will be found useful, as also astringent or anodyne solutions injected into the nose.