THE BKAIN AND ORGANS OP SENSE. 441 It passes through the tubuli seminiferi into the vasa recta- contained in the rete testis. From the rete testis the semen passes by the vasa efferentia into the coni vasculosi, forming the head or globus major of the epididymis ; then through the body of the epididymis into its lower part, called globus minor or cauda, in the convoluted vas deferens. The vas deferens opens with the vesicula seminalis into the urethra. Use of the Vesiculce Seminales.—They are generally sup- posed to receive the semen, and to effect some change in it. By some they are considered to secrete a peculiar fluid. Use of the Prostate Gland.—The prostate gland secretes a peculiar fluid, which is discharged into the urethra by ten or twelve ducts. This secretion is combined and discharged with the seminal fluid. Use of the Uterus.—The uterus is of service for the function of menstruation, and for the reception and nutrition of the ovum. During coition the uterus is supposed to open a little, and draw m the semen by aspiration; the Fallopian tube directs it to the ovarium: the contact of the semen determines the rupture of one of the ovarian vesicles, which in a few days passes into the uterus. Some authors imagine that it is not the semen that is carried to the ovanum, but only the vapour that exhales from it, or aura seminalis. Others think the semen is absorbed, and earned to the ovaria by means of the arteries. No theory vet started carries much probability with it. ' OF THE BEAIN AND ORGANS OF SENSE. v Of tJie Physiology of the Brain.—The uses of the brain m the animal economy are very numerous and important It IS the material organ of the intellect or mind; it gives* LoS iU,";?"™."V^' ^'^'^ oivolL^r; motion; It IS the seat of sensation and of symmthies ind exerts more or less influence upon all the vi/aT?hetmena The sensations are those functions destined to revive tt uleTtXr °' transmirtrm an " ~' taste, Mechanism of Vision,—The nva «p r w J -lue rays ot light, emanating 19§