154 ANATOMY. THE CEREBELLUM. The cerebellum (or lesser brain,) is situated in the pos- terior occipital fossae, resting slightly npon a portion of the temporal bone, and is covered by the tentorium. A slight line of demarcation separates it externally into two lobes, but internally there is a very manifest line of division. Inferiorly the falx minor assists in the sepa- ration. Externally the cerebellum is not covered with convolu- tions like the cerebellum, but appears to be formed by a number of lamellae or plates with sulci between them. "When cut across the arrangement of the white and grey matter is seen ; these are arranged in such a way as to give an arborescent appearance, thence called the arbor vita, the white substance forming the stalks, and the grey the leaves of this arrangement. When cut into deeply we see in the middle of the me- dullary substance an oblong patch of grey matter with a jagged border; this is called the corpus rhomboideum or dentatum, and is supposed to be a ganglion of increase to the formative fibres of the cerebellum. The superior vermiform process of the cerebellum is a slightly elevated ridge running along the middle of the superior surface of the cerebellum between the two lateral lobes, which it connects superiorly. The inferior vermiform process is situated inferiorly, and rtins from before backwards between the two lateral lobes, which it connects. The floccidus, or pneumogastric lobide, is situated on the anterior border of the cerebellum, close to the origin of the eighth pair, whence its name. The litiffuetfa laminosa, is a small process of grey sub- stance, extending from the cineritious matter of the cere- bellum to the valve of Vieussens. The iivida and tonsils are three processes of the cere- bellum, situated on its anterior surface, and forming the posterior boundary of the fourth ventricle. They resemble those parts in the throat when in a swollen state. The peduncles of the cerebellum arc six, three on each side, two of them (the superior) are the i^rocessus 6 cere- hello ad testes, tho, inferior pass to the copora restiformia;