679 TUMOURS. Some surgeons relieve their patients much, by applying small pads or compresses to parts of the veins, and re- taining them there, by means of elastic bands. This mild treatment sometimes succeeds. Varicose veins sometimes prove fatal from the rupture of a varis and the profuse hsemorrhage which ensues. As the blood in such cases may escape from both extremities ■ of the vessel, it is necessary that pressure should be applied both above and below the bleeding point. Phlebitis.—The lining membrane of the venous system is subject to inflammation of an erysipelatous character; it succeeds a wound of the larger veins, and spreads rapidly towards the heart. The inflammation is characterised by pain in the course of the veins, which become thickened by the effusion of lymph into their interior and the sur- rounding cellular tissue; they are also very tender to the touch. Abscesses form in the course of the inflamed veins, ac- companied by a fever of a typhoid character, which soon terminates in death. On a post-mortem examination, collections of pus are frequently found in the cavities of the joints, and in the principal viscera, chiefly in the lungs and the liver. The treatment consists in the application of leeches over the course of the inflamed veins and the exhibition of mercury, so as to salivate, if possible, before the inflammation has extended. Phlebitis has frequently ensued from punctured wounds in dissection and post- mortem examinations, especially when the patient has died from puerperal peritonitis. ON TUMOURS. Tumours have been defined by the celebrated John Hunter as follows: " a tumour is a circumscribed sub- stance produced by disease, and different in its nature and consistence from the surrounding parts." Many of the diseases which will be mentioned under this head have been referred to in a previous part of this work, and will therefore be only spoken of cursorily in this division. The arrangement is borrowed from an interesting work on Tumours, by Dr. Warren, of the Harvard University in