ANATOMY. most of the other muscles of the hand, is sufiiciently explained by its name. Opponens poiLicis. Or. Annular ligament and the os scaphoides. This muscle is also named Flexor ossis Metacarpi polHcis. , . Ins. Anterior extremity of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. Flexor pollicis brevis. Or. External head, from the inside of the annular ligament and trapezium and scaphoid bones. Ins. External sesamoid bone Use. To bend the iirst joint of the fingers, to adduct and abduct them, and may, when the extensors are in action, assist them. Abductor minimi digiti. Or. Annular ligament and os pisiforme. Ins. Ulnar side of the first phalanx. Elexor brevis minimi digiti. Or. Annular ligament and the unciform bone. Ins. Base of the first phalanx of the little finger. Adductor ossis metacarpi anrbase'^oFthelrst phalanx of minimi digiti. Or. Sin^il^^d the thumb. internal to the former, and over- Internal head. Or. Prom lapped by it. osmagnumand the base of the All the metacarpal bone ^ ' • " -^Ji- of the httle finger metacarpal bone of the middle finger. Ins. Internal sesamoid bone and the base of the first phalanx. Adductor pollicis. Or. Three fourths of the anterior surface of the third metacarpal bone. ■ Ins. Inner side of the root of the first phalanx of the thumb. Arductor iNDicis. Or. Op- posed sides of the metacarpal bones, of the forefinger and thumb Inteeossei antici, vel in- terni, vel palmares. Or. Sides of the metacarpal bones. Ins. Pirst phalanges and ten- dinous expansion, covering the dorsum of each finger. The palmar interossei are adductors towards the centre of the middle finger. 1st. Internus vel adductor iNDicis. Or. Uhiar side of the second metacarpal bone. Ins. Luier side of the first /I' Outer side of the base pli^^^"^ of ^he fbrefinger To adduct the fore- Use. finger. 2d. Adductor Or. Radial side mctacarpid bone. Ins. Radial side of the first ANNULARIS. of fourth of the fii-st phalanx of the index finger.' LuMBRiCALES. Or. Outer side of the tendons of the fiexor profundus, near the carpus, a little beyond the annular liga- — . . phalanx of the ruig-bnger. t. Middle of the first pha- Use To draw the i-mg-finger lanx and the tendinous expansion towards the middle on^ cohering the back of each finger. 3d. Adductor mimmi digiti. . This muscle is properly considered to be one of the dorsal interossei.