INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 319 basis cranii antei'ius, is only separated from it by a fibro- cartilaginous substance, which assists in closing up the opening. As the internal carotid artery passes through the carotic canal, it is accompanied by filaments from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, which ascend along with it to the cavity of the cranium, and terminate by sending off minor plexuses to accompany the branches of the artery, and by anastomosing with the cerebral nerves on the side of the cavernous sinus. The internal carotid is but little exposed to accidents, and still less to the knife of the surgeon. It has been occasionally divided in deep injuries of the neck or by foreign bodies being driven along the cavity of the mouth, through the walls of the pharynx. Several instances have occurred where tobacco-pipes have been forced in this direction so as to wound the internal carotid artery. When the hsemorrhage is not immediately fatal, the common carotid artery should be secured. It is possible that this will not be sufficient to restrain the bleeding from the upper end of the divided vessels. If such be the case, and pressure be ineffectual, the other common carotid should be tied. From the relation of the internal carotid to the organ of hearing, and to the different nerves distributed to the eye and orbit, organic or functional disease of it has much influence on both the senses of hearing and vision, and gives rise to symptoms too often considered as the result of diseases of the ear or eye; thus, tinnitus aurium, twitchings of the muscles of the eyelid,'amau- rosis, &c., are frequently induced by the morbid condition of this vessel. As the internal carotid winds through the petrous bone, it is implicated in fractures aflfecting the base of the skull, and may be ruptured, giving rise to haimorrhage from the external ear. Such cases are beyond the power of art. In its cervical and temporal stages the internal carotid artery gives off no branch of importance; but sometimes the pharyngea ascendens arises from it in the neck : as it escapes from the cavernous sinus it gives off the following: Arteria ophthalmica passes forwards, enters the orbit alone with the optic nerve, contained in a sheath of the dura mater- it first W .rnf''f "T'' ' P"''*^' ^"'■^"^ds, winds round it, first crossing its outer side, and then rising above it and term! nates at the inner side of the orbit, and ne^ar it ant kor parHy dividing into numerous small branches. ^ ' ^ followsophthalmic artery are as I. Arteria lacnpnalis passes forwards to the lacrymal gland in which It IS chiefly lost, sending a few branches toX iSs, and