594 SURGERY. the tunica vaginalis, where its extremity is cut down upon, and the instrument drawn through. The seton is preferred to the injection in children. It should be removed as soon as sufficient inflammation appears to be excited in the parts. Infants are subject to hydrocele. An opera- tion is seldom required in them, as the use of stimulating lotions to the scrotum, in general, causes the absorption of the fluid. Acupuncture consists in introducing proper needles through the scrotum and tunica vaginalis, leaving them there a short time and then withdrawing them; a little fluid escapes from the orifices, and an inflammatory action is set up, which sometimes leads to the absorption of the fluid in the tunica vaginalis. This, however, is prone to return, and the operation must be repeated. It is not adopted by the profession generally. It should be borne in mind that, in old cases of hydrocele, the component parts of the cord become spread out, and may be met with on the anterior surface of the tumour; thus the yas deferens or spermatic artery may be wounded, if sufficient care be not observed. Hydrocele of the cord.—This is a collection of fluid in a cyst, formed by the tunica communis of the cord, and appears most frequently in that part of the cord which lies between the external abdominal ring and the testis. It is elongated in shape, tense, and free from pain. The testis lies beneath it. It is treated either by injecting the cyst, or excising a portion of it, or by the introduction of a dossil of lint into its interior. Hydrocele of the cord may be confounded with a hernia, or a hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis. It is distinguished from a hernia by the absence of pain or tenderness, the want of impulse on coughing, and the non-existence of constitutional symp- toms. It is distinguished from a hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis by the situation and shape of the swelling and the relative position of tlie testis. Infiltration of serum into the cellular tissue of the cord has been described by surgeons under the name of diffused hydrocele of the cord. It does not deserve the name. It has been stated by some surgeons that in hydrocele of the cord, the fluid contains spermatozoa. Congenital Hydrocele.—This form of the disease results