OBLiaUE INGUINAL HERNIA. 525 condensed cellular tissue or fascia, situated between the transversalis muscle and the peritoneum, and particu- lariy well marked inferiorhj, where the internal oblique and transversalis muscles are deficient. It may be ex- amined from without, by Raising the transversalis muscle, or from within, by detaching the peritoneum. Superiorly, the transversalis fascia is gradually lost in the loose cellular tissue which connects the peritoneum on its anterior and posterior surfaces to the abdominal parietes, but inferiorhj becomes strong and well marked. Here, on the outer side, it is attached to the inner edo-e of the crest of the ilium; more internally to Pouparf's ligament, behind which it unites with the fascia iliaca to prevent the protrusion of hernia beneath this ligament • still more internally, or opposite the femoral vessels, it descends into the thigh, forming the anterior layer of the canal in which these vessels are lodged; still nearer the pubis. It IS attached to the conjoined tendons, and the outer edge of the rectus muscle, a layer of it passing also behind this muscle to be continuous with that of the otddo- site side. At the point where the spermatic cord perforates the transversalis fascia, namely, the internal abdominal ring the fascia frequently presents a well-defined similunar border, which bounds the ring to its inner side; in other cases It terminates graduaUy in this direction: in all in stances a prolongation is derived from it, which descends on the spermatic cord, and forms the fascia propria or •?r\'^frf'''' of Sir A. Cooper. Some anatomists descnbe the transversahs fascia as being composed of two layers, between which the epigastric artery ascends - one of these bemg attached to the edge of the rectus muscle « e other passing behind the muscle to the opposite side Ine transversalis fascia is of use in strengC ng th^ abdominal parietes inferiorly, where a deficiency ex^ts in the internal obhque and transversalis muscles. ^ Frot its still more ca/able of opposingXrottj im^of Through the inguinal canal an oblioue in-ninnl i! ^' descends, and as it passes downwaT, i 'reel different coverings we have described. receives tlie