684 SUEGEEY. begins in the bottom of the alveolar cavity. It may be mistaken for the vascular tumour of the alveoli; mechanical removal is the only effectual remedy. Osteosarcoma (osteo-medullary tumour of Mr. Travers). This is a hard tumour which arises from periosteum or bone. In external appearance, it has a firm consistence, a rounded form, and seems to bury and involve the bone from which it is derived. Its colour varies from that of the skin to a red, and it exhibits enlarged veins over its surface; when it acquires a large size it becomes more elastic and soft; the pain attending it is not acute, but of an aching character. The surface is tuberculated, which is characteristic of it; the inequaUties are caused by masses of unequally thickened periosteum. In its interior it does not present bony plates or cartilaginous septa. The con- stituents of the tumour are the bone on which the tumour is placed, the periosteum, the medullary fungus contained in the periosteum, and a fluid in some cells which are found in the centre. It appears to take its origin chiefly from inflammation of the periosteum. This disease gene- rally does not afiiept the system at large by any maUgnant quality, and may with propriety be removed by the knife; if left to itself, ulceration will ensue, the integuments slough, and the patient is gradually exhausted. In some cases the lymphatic and other glands have fallen into a fungoid degeneration. It is distinguished from exostosis by wanting its hardness; common periosteal tumour, by its regular form and greater size; scirrhous, by being closely connected with the bone; medullary exostosis, by wanting the basket- like sm-face occasioned by the layers of bone and membrane. GLANDULAE TUMOUES. These include tumours of lymphatic, secreting, mucous, and sebaceous or oleaginous glands. Tumours of lym- phatic glands may be divided into scrofulous, scirrhous, and fungoid. Scrofulous tumours are simple enlargements of the glands, most frequent in the neck, groin, and armpit; they have an ovoidal form, ai-e in clusters, seldom painful till