STRANGULATED INGUINAL HEKNIA. 53^ a small ligature round it, the intestine mav then be re- turned. Adhesions frequently exist between the intestine and hernial sac; these, if recent and not extensive, may be at once broken through; if of longer standing, the knife may be used, taking care to infringe rather on tlie sac than on the mtestine : sljould they be extensive, the intestine should be allowed to remam. In all cases the use of force should be avoided, as the intestine is easily ruptured. The omentum, too, occasionaUy causes the surgeon some trouble. It may also be adherent to the inner surface of the sac; if so, the adhesions should be freely divided and it returned. Not unfrequently, if a large portion have de- scended its folds unite, so as to form one soUd mass : the return of such would be impossible, and, if possible ex- ceedingly injudicious, as the presence of so large a forei-n body (as It may now be considered) in the abdomen would excite peritoneal symptoms. The plan to be adopted is to remove the mass with the knife, and return the re' mainder to the mouth of the hernial sac, so as to plu? up the opening. After the removal of. the portion of the omentum, numerous vessels will bleed; the h^morrha-e can be in general restrained by the laceration or torsion of the vessels with the forceps. Should this be found insuf- hcient, the vessels that continue to bleed should be secured byhgature, taking care at the same time not to include any portion of the omentum. On no account should the omentum be returned untU haemorrhage is completely re strained, as the warnjth of the abdominal cavity will other' wise reproduce the bleeding. The ligatures may be aUowed to hang out of the wound; they will separate b three four days, or they may be cut short; in the latter case they may ultimately either escape through the ^oZd Z make their way into one of the intestines^ and tCs be di« charged per anum. "'^^ Sir A. Cooper objects to the use of the knifp in i stroymg the adhesions of the omentum nnfl. . v'^^' that he advocates the cutting awayThe n ^'""^'"^ know not on what grounds. ^ ' ' omentum; we The omentum is sometimes ean"Tenoii<! ■ th;. i- • of ..y be ascertained by .he\l„°„7be g 'aluS'iL' the vems, by a peculiar crispy feel it preint,, S by its