329 CAVITY OF THE MOUTH. the ranine branches of the lingual arterj^ The nerves of the tongue are numerous, and are derived from the gusta- tory branch of the fifth which supplies the organ with the sense of taste, from the lingual which supplies the muscles, and from the glosso-pharyngeal, which is supposed by some to be also a nerve of taste, and has been more speci- fically named the nerve of bitter taste. The interior of the mouth is hned with mucous mem- brane, which is continuous externally with the integuments, and from thence passes inwards, covering the free margin of the lips, and their inner surface, as also that of the cheeks; it is thence reflexed on the alveolar processes of the upper and lower jaw, passes between the teeth, covering the gums, and from the inner surface is reflexed on the hard palate above, the sublingual glands and muscles of the tongue below, from whence it is reflexed on the tongue itself, covering this organ as just described; from these parts it passes on to the velum towards the larynx, pharynx, posterior nares, and Eustachian tubes. In this course it forms several folds, the most remarkable of which are the fraenula labiorum, two folds which connect the upper and lower lips to the alveolar processes; the fraenum lingUEe, and the fraenum and frsenula of the epiglottis. The mucous membrane of the mouth is covered by squamous epithelium. The mouth communicates posteriorly with the pharynx, larynx, and posterior nares, by means of the isthmus fau- cium, the lateral boundaries of which are the pillars of the fauces and the tonsils. The pillars of the fauces are two crescentic folds of mucous membrane on each side, within which are muscular fibres. The anterior pillar descends from the edge of the velum forwards and outwards to the side of the base of the tongue, and incloses between its folds the palato-glossus muscle. The posterior fold descends backwards and outwards, and is lost on the lateral surface of the pharynx ; it incloses the palato-pharyngeus muscle. Ihese folds, from their possessing muscular fibres, are enabled to constrict or close the isthmus fauciura, hence they have been named by some constrictores isthmi faucium ; they can also compress the tonsil which Ues imbedded between them, and thus force out its secretion in the acts of mastication and deglutition. The palato-