638 SURGERY. is much less frequently met with than in the knee, in con- sequence of being better covered with soft parts. It is in general caused by mechanical injury; when of the acute form it is less under control than synovitis of the knee. Sir B. Brodie relates a case in which pus was formed in the joint on the third day, and which proved fatal on the seventh day after the injury. The disease is characterised by acute deep-seated pain referred to the articulation, and increased on motion, general swelling around the hip, and severe constitutional disturbance. Morbus Coxce.—This is a scrofulous affection of the hip-joint, and therefore analogous to white swelling in the knee. Its peculiar characteristic marks are best examined by dividing the disease into three stages : First Stage.—Pain in the hip or knee-joint, or both, attended with sharp pains down the thigh, an inabihty to use the limb, an apparent elongation when the patient is placed in the erect posture, produced by the obliquity of the pelvis, which is itself caused by the patient resting only on the sound limb, and thus forcing the pelvis on that side upwards ; eversion and pointing of the foot which is advanced in front of the other, curvature of the lumbar portion of the spine, the convexity towards the diseased side ; fulness of the nates, soon followed by flattening and elongation, which causes the fold to be lower than on the opposite side ; swelUng in the inguinal region; severe pain in the hip, when the foot or knee is forced upwards. Second Stage.—Shortening of the limb caused by ab- sorption of the head of the femur, widening of the aceta- bulum, and finally by a dislocation of the femur on the dorsum of the ilium; formation of abscesses around the joint. Third Stage.—Abscesses burst; there are sinuous open- ings around the articulation, most frequently behind the trochanter, beneath the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, or below the fold of the nates; hectic fever, fol- lowed frequently by death. The treatment of morbus coxae is similar to that recom- mended for white swelling. Young subjects sometimes recover from an attack of morbus coxse, adults seldom. Recovery is effected by the cessation of the ulcerative pro-