586 SUllGEJiY. the disease of a stone in the bladder, and generally con- sidered as diagnostic, is a sudden stoppage of the urine, caused by the stone falling against the opening of the urethra. The fixed point of the tumour in enlarged prostate will distinguish it from a calculus. Calcuh occasionally form in the prostate gland. They are usually small, numerous, and composed of the phos- phate of lime. From their proximity to the bladder, and the symptoms produced by them, they may lead to the supposition of a calculus being contained in the bladder. When small, they escape frequently by the urethra; but when they have attained a large size, may become impacted in the canal, and so produce a retention of urine. If the calculus cannot be removed by dilating the urethra, as re- commended by Sir A. Cooper, it should be cut down upon through the perineum, and thus removed. Much care is requisite in order to prevent its passing back into the bladder. DISEASES OF THE TESTIS. Hernia humoralis or Testitis.—This is an acute inflam- mation of the testis, and most frequently appears in con- nexion with gonorrhoea. Vide Gonorrhoea. Scrofulous disease of Testis.—This, in general, appears about the age of puberty. The testicle becomes enlarged, but without much pain. If the disease be not arrested, numerous abscesses form in the testis, which burst exter- nally, and discharge a scrofulous matter. The gland is almost always destroyed. Hydatids of the Testis—Ihis. disease generally appears between the ages of seventeen and thirty. It begins at the extremity of the epididymis, where it joins the testis, both these parts soon become enlarged, but not painful. The veins of the spermatic cord become varicose. The consti- tution of the patient is unaffected. This disease will require removal of the testicle when it has attained a large size. Irritable Testis.—The part is so exceedingly tender that the patient cannot bear to walk, as pressure of the testicle gives him excruciating pain. Handling of the testis pro- duces dreadful pain, which will last for hours after, passing up the spermatic cord to the loins, and along the