THE EYE, 199 quite clear: some say, and amongst them Cruveilhier, that it only proceeds as far as the posterior edges of the ciliary striae; others, that it passes as far as the crystalline lens. The tunica Jacobi is an extremely delicate memhrane, ■which has been ascertained by the microscope to be formed in a most singular manner. It exhibits immensely nu- merous columns placed vertically to the basement mem- brane, and resembling, externally, a mosaic pavement. The tunica nervosa, the expansion of the optic nerve, is pulpy, and terminates at the edge of the ciliary processes. The tunica vasculosa contains several minute branches from the arteria centralis retinse, a small branch of which passes forwards through the vitreous humour to reach the posterior surface of the capsule of the lens. In the centre of the back part of the retina, in the axis of the globe of the eye, a yellow spot is observed, called the limbus luteus, with a fancied orifice, called foramen centrale of Sommering. This is produced by a deposit of yellow substance ; and the membrane being puckered up into a fold, causes the appearance of a dark spot or orifice in the centre. This spot is found in very few animals. The h'is is a circular membrane, attached by its outer border to the ciliary ligament, with a central orifice, called the pupU. Its anterior surface is coloured variously in different individuals; its inner surface is lined with a sub- stance resembling pigmentum nigrum, named the iivea. It separates the cornea from the lens. In structure it ap- pears to be fibrous, and, according to some, muscular. On the anterior surface two circles may be observed, the ex- ternal one, named annulus major, is paler, and consists of fibres radiating from the circumference towards the centre ; the inner fibres run circularly and form the annulus minor. The cu-cular fibres of the iris have been supposed to be muscular, wliilst the radiating are considered to be simply elastic. On the posterior surface of the iris, the fibres pass straight from the circumference towards the pupillarv margin. ^ ^ ^ The pupil of the foetus, up to nearly the seventh month, 18 filled up by a membrane called the membrana pupillaris ; this IS supposed to be formed by a meeting of the mem- branes lining the two chambers of the eye, but seems more like a continuation of ins, which is afterwards absorbed, in