710 SURGEEY. HAEMORRHAGE. Hjsmokrhage appears as an idiopathic disease, most frequently from mucous surfaces. The Schneiderian membrane of the nose is that which is most subject to it. It is here named epistaxis, and has been already considered under that head. The haemorrhage which interest surgeons most is that which proceeds from injured blood-vessels. Haemorrhage from arteries is much more difficult to control than that from veins, in consequence of their greater resistance and being more directly affected by the action of the heart. Arterial bleeding is characterised by the red colour of the blood, by this fluid being discharged per saltum, and being only restrained when the vessel is compressed on that side which is next to the heart. Haemorrhage from the smaller arteries seldom gives much trouble; the application of cold to the wound or styptic remedies, such as spirits of turpentine, solution of alum, matico, &c. or the closing of the edges of the wound will in general be found sufficient to restrain it. This is not, how- ever, the case with the larger arteries, as, for instance, those of the leg, thigh, forearm, arm, or trunk. The size of these vessels, the larger column of blood impelled into them so much more powerfully by the action of the left ventricle, and the absence of that degree of contractility possessed by the smaller arteries, call for more active remedies to arrest haemorrhage from them when wounded. It is unnecessary to allude to the older remedies for stopping haemorrhage, such as the actual cautery, &c.: these are now superseded, except in some very rare instances, by the ligature. Let us suppose that the femoral artery has been cut across, or otherwise wounded. The surgeon should imiiiediately compress the vessel leading to the wounded part, by the tourniquet or any other means within his reach. Having arrested the heemorrhage for the moment, he proceeds to tie the vessel. The wound, if sufficiently large, should be opened, and if not, must be dilated for the purpose, and the mouth of the bleeding vessel exposed. The artery is now transfixed with the tenaculum or taken hold of with the forceps, or if not completely cut across, the aneurism needle is passed beneath it, and the ligature applied so as to cut through the internal and middle coats and then tied