OBLiaUE INGUINAL HEKNIA. 523 scend around the spermatic cord, but chiefly on its outer and anterior surface, forming a series of loops, the con- cavities of which are directed upwards, and are finally implanted into the outer surface of the tunica vaginalis, and into the scrotum, to the lower part of which they descend. Between the fibres of the muscle, the sperma- ticus superficialis nerve, a branch from the iho-scrotal, descends, to be lost in the coverings of the testis. The cremaster nauscle is of use in supporting and raising the testicle; it is seldom well marked, except in cases of old hernia, hydrocele, or diseases of the testis, when its fibres become strong and distinct; it forms the fourth covering of an oblique inguinal hernia. Poupart's ligament bounds the inguinal canal infe- riorhj. Near the internal ring, the cord is about three quarters of an inch above Poupart's ligament, but as it descends, it gradually approaches the ligament, until at length It lies imbedded in its upper surface, which is grooved for its protection. This close relation between the cord and Poupart's ligament should not be forgotten m our operations for the reUef of strangulated femoral hernia, as the cord is much endangered, should we adopt the proposal, recommended by some, of cutting directly upwards. The anterior boundaries of the inguinal canal have been already described. Its posterior walls are the fascia transversahs and the conjoined tendons; this latter struc- ture forms but a small portion of the posterior boundary of the canal; it lies behind the external abdominal ring. The transversalis fascia will be better seen immediately. Cut through the lower margin of the internal oblique muscle, and raise it gently from the outer surface of the transversalis; the remainder of the inguinal canal will then be still further exposed, as also the internal abdo- mmal ring. This opening is formed by the passage of the spermatic cord through the transversalis fascia. As the cb d passes through the fascia, it draws with it, as it were a cellular pro ongation from the fascia; this descends. anS i g a- dually lost upon the cord; it is named the fascia nrom-ia or ^nternal spout-like fascia. It forms the fiftlf oTX immediate covering of the hernial sac. hence its name of