435 THJE BLOOD. portse. Others consider it subservient to the stomach, and that it receives the surcharge of blood when the stomach is empty. The most rational theory is that of Mr. Dobson; he found that the spleen receives most blood during di- gestion, and that, when digestion is completed, it recovers its normal condition. Hence he imagined that the spleen becomes a reservoir or diverticulum for a part of the blood, until the system can accommodate itself to the additional fluid which has been thrown into the circulating mass of fluids. Some modern physiologists imagine that the spleen is subservient in producing the colouring matter of the blood, and that it indeed may be said to form the red globules, but on insufScient grounds. THE BLOOD. The blood when first drawn from the living body appears homogeneous; hut, submitted to the microscope, exhibits an almost colourless fluid, with numerous red globules floating in it. By standing, it coagulates in from three to seven minutes, and after a space of half an hour or more, it separates into two parts—serum and crassamentum. Thus the blood at first consists of liquor sanguinis (or plasma) and red globules. The crassamentum formed afterwards contains the fibrine of the liquor sanguinis, as well as the globules entangled in its meshes. Besides'the red corpuscles, numerous pale corpuscles are found in the blood. The red corpuscles, or globules, in man are circular, flattened, biconcave discs, about ^^^t]x of an inch in diameter, and a fourth of that measure in thickness. They are generally of the same form in the mammalia, excepting the camel, in which they are rather ovoid. In reptiles birds, and fishes, they are generally oval, with a central tnicJcer nucleus, instead of a depression. They vary much in size in animals ; are largest in the elephant amono-st the mammalia; smallest in the napu musk deer, according to Mr. Gulliver not exceeding the ^l^-th of an inch in diameter. They are largest in the pro?e«s, the siren, and the frog; being in the protcus ,th of an inch in diameter. The red corpuscles consist of a colourless envelope, sur- rounding the colouring matter; and in those cases ;iiere there is a central nucleus, the colouring matter is deposited