366 REGIONAL A.ND SURGICAL ANATOMY. The particulars connected with these have been adverted to in other parts of the work to such an extent, as not to require any further lengthened description. ARTEBIjE ILIACiE COMMUNES. The aorta bifurcates in front, and a little to the left side, of the fourth lumbar vertebra, sometimes the third or fifth, and opposite to a point, corresponding externally to a little below and to the left side of the umbUicus, into the right and left common iliac arteries. Each common iliac artery thence descends outwards, and opposite the sacro-iliac symphysis, divides into tlie internal and external iliac arteries. The common iliac arteries are covered in front by the peritoneum, and are crossed at tbeir bifur- cation by the ureters; on the left side, by the colon descending to form the rectum, and on the right by the ileum terminating in the caecum. The right common Diac artery crosses the last lumbar vertebra, with the interven- tion of the left common iliac vein, and the commencement of the vena cava, which is formed behind the artery by the junction of the two common iliac veins; it then crosses its own vein, which, lies superiorly to its outer but inferiorly to its inner side. The left common iliac vein lies, through- out, internal and posterior to its artery. The length of these arteries is about two inches and a half, but they have been found to vary as much in length, as from one inch and a half to three inches and a half. If there be any dif- ference in the length of the two, the right one is likely to be longer. From the angle of bifurcation of the aorta there proceeds the Arteria sacri media. This is a small vessel which descends in front of the mesial line of the sacrum to the coccyx, sending off branches on each side to communicate with the lateral sacral arteries, and others in front to the rectum. The common iliac artery is tied, in aneurisms of the external iliac, high up, of the internal iliac artery, or of its principal branches. The operation is performed hy making a slightly curved incision from four to five inches in length in the lateral part of the abdo- minal parictes, extending one half above, the other below, the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. The integuments and muscles having been cut through, the transversalis fascia is