148 A.NATOMT. becoming continuous with the under surface of tlie corpora striata. It passes over the optic commissure, with which it is slightly blended, and is lost on the Tuber Ciuereum and substantia perforata antica. Posteriorly the corpus callosura is continuous with the fornix in the middle, and the hippocampi majores at the sides. Inferiorly its surface covers the bodies of the lateral ventricles, and in the middle it is attached to the septum lucidum, whilst under its pos- terior margin is the fissure of Bichat. The superior surface of the corpus callosum presents a groove called the raphe, which runs along its centre, and at either side of this is an elevated ridge running along its side, whilst externally it is marked by transverse lines, here called linece transverscB. The two longitudinal ridges have been named strice longitudinales, and also nerves of Lancisi. On this surface run the anterior arteries of the cerebrum, which, having turned over the anterior rounded margin of the corpus caUosum, pass on its upper face trom before backwards, paraUel with one another, and are here called arterice corporis callosi. The corpus callosum is composed entirely of white substance, and is considerably thicker posteriorly than anteriorly. On cutting down longitudinally into the white substance on either side of the corpus callosum, we make an opening into the lateral ventricle. . ... Each lateral ventricle is described as consisting ot a body and three cornua, anterior, posterior, and middle ; the body is of an irregular shape, and bears no resemblance to any known object. Anteriorly it is continuous with the anterior cornu, posteriorly with the posterior cornu. Externally lie the cerebral substances of the hemispheres. Internally is the septum lucidum. Its roof is formed by the corpus callosum, whilst its floor is formed by the following parts, in the order mentioned from before back- wards ; the corpus striatum, taenia semicircularis, the cho- roid plexus, thalamus opticus, and the lateral thin margin of the fornix. • \ • The corpus striatum (plurally, corpora striata,) is a grey, pear-shaped body, of which the larger end is ••interior, and close to its fellow of the opposite side, whilst tne smaUer extremity is posterior and divergent, bemg ^f P^'lf from its fellow by the thalami optici. Internally it is