THE LIVEH. 251 ents; that for the vena cava, and the depression for the y all-bladder. There are also several depressions of the liver mentioned, but they are generally very indistinct; there is one for the stomach, one for the colon, and one for the right kidney, and a groove for the oesophagus. The liver may be considered as a collection of little livers or acini, which are composed of ramifications of blood-vessels, absorbents, biliary ducts, and nerves con- nected together by cellular substance. The minute structure of the liver has been investigated by Mr. Kiernan, one of the most skilful anatomists of the present age. The results of his observations have the following purport: He first commences by stating that the liver has three surfaces, viz., the commonly received surface, the portal surface, and the hepatico-venous; the two latter are such as would be exposed by mechanically separating the lobules of the liver from the branches of these vessels. The ramifications of the venae hepaticse resemble a tree with its branches, upon which the lobules are placed. The lobules have somewhat an hexangular form con- nected together by a delicate cellular tissue, but presenting between each other interlobular spaces, which lodge the interlobular veins. The interlobular veins are the minute ramifications of the vena portse, which are joined by the minute branches ot the hepatic artery, and thus form now but one system of vessels. These interlobidar veins send into each lobule from Its circumference to its centre, minute branches' which, by interlacing, form the lobular venous plexuses'- these minute branches secrete the bile, and reunite in the centre of the lobule, forming the intralobular veins These intralobular veins pass into the sublobular veins which are the primary rootlets of the vencB cavcc hepatic J Ihe hepatic artery, after entering the portal canals divides into branches, which are supposed to nourish Se ivei, and subsequently are lost to view by pasr. int :imif^nf vlsl.^'^ ^^"^ ^--.^ a^sii-gl: The biliary tubes, commencing in each lobule, emerge at the circumference, run in the interlobular spaces, and by