DISEASES OF THE NOSE. 499 there is also a discharge of tears, or epiphora, from the corresponding eye, from the extremity of the nasal duct being pressed on, wliile that side of the nose is drier tfian usual, and the patient's voice becomes nasal. There is no pain attending the disease, and no external deformity, until the tumour increases in size, when it causes a pro- jection on one side of the nose, and may appear through the anterior nares. On examining the nasal cavity, the polypus will be found of a palish or greyish light-brown colour, not unlike a grape, of a pyriform shape, being attached by its smaller extremity, slightly transparent, and possessing a few vessels, which ramify near its root. Eemoval is the only effectual treatment of polypi. They may be removed by extraction, the ligature, excision, or by the application of caustic. Extraction is effected by means of a polypus-forceps. A probe is first passed up the nose, to ascertain the precise situation and extent of the attachment of the polvpus. The forceps is now in- troduced, and the tumour laid hold of by the root, for, if caught near the fundus it will break down and come away only in parts The root of the tumour being firmly grasped in the blades of the forceps, the tumour may be removed by a sudden jerk, or by twisting the forceps round and then dragging it away. By this forcible removal of the tumour, its root sloughs, and the disease is completely eradicated The removal of a portion of the spongy bone renders this still more secure. The polypus being removed, an examination of the nose should be made, to ascertain if any others exist. Should this be the case, they must be removed in like manner The point of attachment of each polypus may be touched with the solid nitrate of silver, or a solution of this sub- stance injected into the nose. The ligature is seldom used except where the polvpua is attached far back in the nose, and projects into the pharynx posteriorly. In this case the tumour cannot be seen but may be felt by passing the fingers through the mouth behmd the velum. Deglutition it interfered\dth in such cases. The operation is performed as follows: Through the double canula, pass a sUver wire so n<! M f,..,v, „ the pharynx. The noose is now ' 7 ^ necessary, into to the ears of llic cZl. Td IK., • T """"^