SUKGEUY. 648 cated forwards on the one half of the astragalus and os naviculare. Its symptoms are the same, but not so well marked as the complete dislocation. Dislocation backwards has never been seen by Sir A. Cooper. The tarsal hones are sometimes, but rarely dislocated. The astragalvis is most frequently displaced, generally forwards, and to one side, either inwards or outwards. The luxated bone should be reduced, if possible, by ex- tension and making pressure on the bone itself; where this cannot be efiected, the integuments over the displaced bone generally slough, exfoliation takes place, and ampu- tation may become necessary. When the bone protrudes through the skin and cannot be reduced, it should be at once cut away and the wound be closed. The phalavt/es of the toes are sometimes dislocated, and the first bone of the great toe is frequently luxated from the first metatarsal bone: these cases are not attended with any remarkable symptoms, and are reduced without difficulty. Dislocations of the clavicle.—The clavicle is more fre- quently dislocated at its acromial than at its sternal end. The sternal extreiuity of this bone is subject to be dis- located in two directions, viz., forwards and backwards. The dislocation forwards is much the more frequent. It is caused by falls on the shoulder. Symptoms: The end of the bone forms a distinct swelling on the fore and upper part of the sternum, and if the fingers be carried upon the surface of the sternum upwards, this projection stops them. Reduction: Place the knee ngainst the spine and draw back the shoulders, when the bone at once shps into its place. This dislocation is treated by the applica- tion of the clavicular bandage, the arm being supported in a sUng. In this case, the hone never returns to its original position eutirelv; consequently, when it occurs to a young lady, it is prudent to state that there will always be some deCormity. Dislocation backwards has only been seen as a con- sequence of disease of the spine. In one case the end ot the bone pressed on the oesophagus, and was removed with the saw. . Dislocation of the acromial end of the clavicle, ims takes place in but one direction, that is, upwards and