ARTICULATIONS OP THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 73 The phalanges are fourteen in number, three for the four inner fingers, and two for the thumb : they are named in their numerical order from above downwards, viz., the first or metacarpal phalanx, the second or middle, the third or ungual phalanx. The first phalanx of the third or middle finger is the longest, that of the little finger the shortest and smallest. The second or middle phal.anx is the next in size and length: the thumb wants this phalanx. " The third or ungual phalanges are five in number ; in- feriorly become thin and pointed, and terminate by a rough eminence, which gives insertion anteriorly to the tendons of the fiexor profundus, posteriorly supports the nails : the largest is that of the thumb ; the smallest that of the little finger. The first and second phalanges may be classed amongst the long bones, as they present all their characters; the third belong to the irregular bones, and are, like these, spongy in their structure; they are developed from two points of ossification, one for the centre, and one for the superior extremity. Connected with the under surface of the head of the first metacarpal bone of the thumb are two sesamoid bones ; these, like those of the foot, are to give attachment to muscles, and to obviate the effects of friction. Muscles attached to the Phalanges : [Ewtensor primi internodii pollicis. First phalanx of thumb and J Abductor pollicis. sesamoid bones j Adductor „ l_ Flexor brevis pollicis. Second phalanx of thumb . I Extensorsecundiinternodiipollicis. • t Flexor longus pollicis. To first phalanx of the four/ Interossei. fingers \ Lumbricales. To first phalanx of index f Extensor indicis. finger \ Abductor „ To first phalanx of little J Flexor brevis minimi diqiti. finger \ Abductor „ Second phalanx of the four f Flexor digitorummblimis. 1,^1"/"^,; • V • • ; • I Ef tensor communis digitorum. Third phalanx of the iom I Flexor digitorum profundus. I Extensor digitorum communis. THE ARTICULATIONS OP THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The articulations of the upper extremity are the sterno- 4