732 SURGERY. Spina bifida. This is a malformation or arrest of deve- lopment in tlie posterior part of the spinal column, in which, from the process of ossification not being completed, the spinous processes are wanting and thus the spinal canal is not closed, A tumour soon forms and protrudes through the aperture. This tumour is formed by the membranes of the spinal marrow which are forced outwards, by a collection of serum in the interior of the theca. Treatment.—The tumour should be punctured with a fine needle, and the serum given exit to; pressure should now be applied over the part so as to prevent if possible the reappearance of the tumour and allow of the completion of the spinal column: should the tumour return, it should be again punctured. This practice is to he repeated as often as may be necessary. The case seldom terminates favorably, when the large portion of the spinal canal is imperfect. This affection, although not confined to any particular part of the spinal columns, is most frequently met with in the lumbar region. A similar arrest of development is occasionally met with in the posterior part of the head, when the membranes and substance of the brain become protruded so as to form a tumour. Pressure alone, and that gently and moderately applied, can be resorted to in this case with safety. 'Paronychia or Wldtlow is an inflammation of one of the fingers or toes (very rarely the latter,) of a very painful nature, and much disposed to sujjpurate. Paronychia is divided into four kinds, according to the depth of the inflammation: 1st, the most superficial, which is situated immediately under the cuticle; 2d, when (heinflammation is situated beneath the cutis; 3d, when the inflammation is situated in the sheaths of the tendons; 4th, where the inflammation lies beneath the periosteum. The first and second forms of paronychia attacks the ungual phalanx. There is, in general, a good deal of pain in the part, and some redness and swelling, particularly about the root of the nail. The application of leeches and warm fomenta- tions to the part will in general give relief, and sometimes cause the resolution of the inflammation. In general, some matter forms, and most frequently near the root of