331 DEEP MUSCLES OF THE NECK. The glottis or superior opening of the larynx is situated immediately behind the root of the tongue and epiglottis, and beneath the velum. The relative position of this opening should be attentively considered, as it is sometimes found necessary to pass tubes through it into the larynx, for the purpose of artificially inflating the lungs. If some caution be not observed in the introduction of these instru- ments, it is evident that they may be passed down the pharynx and not into the larynx. To avoid this mistake, the tongue should be drawn forwards, so as to raise the epiglottis, and thus uncover the glottis; the instrument being then passed through the mouth, and guided by the fingers of the left hand, will descend into the larynx. Of late some physicians and surgeons have in- troduced various solutions into the larynx itself, chiefly of nitrate of silver, in diseases of this organ or of the trachea, by means of a bent probe and sponge, or by the aid of a small syringe. DEEP MUSCLES OF THE NECK. Behind the pharynx and larynx, and closely connected to the spine, are the deep muscles of the neck,— Longus colli. Rectus capitis anticus major. » >t ,, minor. And close to these on each side of the vertebree are found the following: Rectus capitis lateralis. Scalenus anticus. „ medius. „ posticus. The scaleni are of more importance from their surgical relations than from any other circumstance. On the anterior surface of the scalenus anticus muscle, we find the subclavian vein, the transversales colli and humeri arte ries, which cross the muscle transversely, and the phrenic nerve, which takes a perpendicular direction. Between the scalenus anticus and medius the subclavian artery and brachial ple.xus pass outwards. Occasionally, one of the branches of this plexus separates the scalenus medius and posticus. The outer edge of the scalenus Su muscle guides us to the subclavian artery, where it S Zlaiarlll;''- ""^^'^ ^« ''-"^^d th-f^! crotLl-'°°* " ^^"^"^ ^bove the clavicle.