484 STJfiGERY. not discovered. The pustule soon breaks and an ulcer is formed on the cornea. This is of a conical shape, the apex towards the interior of the eye, and is in general transparent. When small, it is best seen by placing the eye in different lights, and examining the eye attentively, and especially sideways; when large, it is at once obvious. These ulcers are said not to secrete pus, nor to form gra- nulations. They are attended with considerable pain, and cause much irritation to the patient. Ulcers of the cornea should be touched freely with the solid nitrate of silver, or with a strong solution of the substance, in the proportion of 10 or 20 grains to the ounce of distilled water. If disposed to heal, lymph is effused from the surface of the ulcer, the cavity of which is thus filled up. In general, some degree of opacity remains from this process, which may be removed by the use of astringent lotions, such as the Lotio Sulph. Zinci, gr. iij, with of water, or by the solution of nitrate of silver, or the Vin. Op. dropped into the eye. When an ulcer or ulcers form in the centre of the cornea they interfere much with vision; as they usually form, however, near its circumference, the sight is not much impaured by them. , ^ . , Ulcers of the cornea, if neglected, gradually sink deeper through this structure, and finaUy open into the anterior chamber of the eye. The aqueous humour now escapes, and, bringing with it the floating edge of the ins, this membrane protrudes through the ulcer, so as to form a slight blackish projection over the surface of the cornea, forming a hernia or staphyloma of the iris. This is usuaUy attended with great pain and an increase of the inflam- mation. The extract of belladonna should now be applied round the eye, so as to cause the retraction of the pro- truded iris, if possible, and the ulcer touched with the nitrate of silver. This can he seldom accomplished as the iris rapidly contracts adhesion to the margins ot the ulcer, a circumstance indicated by the irregularity m the shape of the pupil. Here the application of the nitrate ot silver to the protruded iris is beneficial, as it at once destroys the sensibility of the protruded part and relieves tlie patient. The ulcer now frequently heals, and tUe patient recovers vision, without suffering any incouve-