KEGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. 338 spinal accessory nerves, to supply the inferior and posterior parts of the cerebelhiin. Arterice medullce spinalis, anterior and posterior, consist of two on each side, one in front and one behind, which descend on the anterior and posterior surfaces of the spinal marrow, to its inferior extremity, anastomosing freely with each other and with branches distributed to the spinal marrow, from tlie vertebral, intercostal, and lumbar arteries, in the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar regions. The anterior spinal arteries soon unite into a single trunk, but the posterior branches run down separately. The basilar artery, formed by the junction of the two vertebral arteries, ascends in a groove on the anterior sur- face of the pons varolii, bound down by the arachnoid and pia mater, and between the sixth pair of nerves, and at its upper extremity near to the posterior clinoid processes of the sphenoid bone, divides into its four terminating branches, two to either side, viz., the arterise cerebelli superiores and arterise cerebri posteriores. Arteria cerebelli superior vel anterior, on each side, winds back- wards and outwards round the upper part of the pons varohi to supply the upper surface of the cerebellum, the tubercula quadri- gemina, &c. A small branch from it frequently enters the meatus auditorius internus between the portio dura and portio mollis of the seventh pair of nerves. Arteria cerebri posterior, larger than the preceding, winds back- wards and outwards around the crus cerebri to supply the posterior lobe of the cerebrum. Between these two last-described arteries the third pair of nerves invariably passes out. Shortly after its origin, the posterior artery of the cere- brum is joined by the posterior communicating branch of the internal carotid, and thus the circle of Wilhs is formed ; this, which is an heptagon rather than a circle, is completed in front by the anterior arteries of the cerebrum and the anterior communicating branch, on each side by the posterior communicating arteries, posteriorly by the posterior arteries of the cerebrum. The vertebral artery, from its peculiar course, is almost precluded from any surgical interference. The left vertebral, however, sometimes arises from the arch of the aorta, between the left carotid and left sub- clavian arteries: it then ascends into the neck, and fre- quently does not enter the foramina in the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrije, until it arrives opposite