THE EAK. 203 4tli, first division of the 5th and 6th ; besides which jn the orbit is the lenticular ganghon, with its branches. THE EAR. The ear, as commonly understood, consists of external and internal parts. The parts of the external ear are the auricula and ex- ternal auditory passage, or meatus ; the parts of the internal ear are the tympanum and labyrinth. The auricula, or outer ear, is composed of common integument, fibro-cartilages, muscular fibres, vessels, and nerves. The upper expanded portion is named the pinna, the lower small part the lobe or lobule, which is devoid of fibro-cartilage and muscle. The prominent ridge forming the outer part of the pinna is named the helix; the bifid projection within it is named antihelix; the nipple-shaped prominence just in front of the meatus externus is the tragus; a small one behind and opposite to it the antitragus. The depression, or groove, between the helix and antihelix is the fossa innominata, that between the ridges of the antihelix is the fossa navicularis, and the deep fossa below it is the concha. The posterior surface of the concha is called the dorsum of the ear. The outer ear is kept in its situation by fibrous bands, which attach it to the zygoma, the mastoid process, and temporal aponeurosis. It is moved by three muscles, the anterior auris, retrahens, and attollens aurein. There are also delicate muscles proper to the pinna of the ear, for the motion of separate parts, but so small as to be dis- covered with some difficulty; they are rudiments of like parts found in animals, and are the following: Helicis major; helicis minor; tragicus ; antitranieus; transversus auriculm. And two others described by Mr. Todd, viz: Obliquus auris ; contractor meatus. The meatus auditorius externus, or external auditory passage extends from the concha to the membrana tym- pani It IS partly formed of cartilage and integument, partly of the latter and bone. The lining integument is also reflected upon the membrana tympani. Its direction