452 SURGEEY, tumours, foreign bodies, such as musket-balls, splinters of bone, &c., come to the surface^ and are ultimately dis- charged. When ulceration takes place on the surface of the body, the part soon becomes covered with reddish, conical, fleshy bodies, named granulations; these are formed from lymph, which is effused from the open sur- face, and subsequently becomes organised. This granu- lated surface generally secretes pus, and is called an ulcer. The ulcerative process is most active in the more highly organised parts, as is seen in the separation of a mortified limb, in which the skin and muscles are soon separated, whilst the bones and fibrous structures are but slowly removed. Ulceration has been elegantly described by Mr. Skey, as "a process by which parts destroyed by inflammation are removed in detail." Query.—Is it not probable that the oxygen of the arterial blood, by combustion of the tissues, is the main agent in absorption, most especially that variety known by the name of disjunctive absorption ? Mortification is the last termination of inflammation. It takes place most readily in feebly organised parts, as in bones, cellular membrane, and fasciae. It is caused by the inflammatory action being too violent for the vital process of the part, and this may be induced wherever the balance between these is destroyed, whether this results from the severity of the inflammation or from the weakness of the parts ailected. The Treatment of Inflammation is best regulated by the antiphlogistic regimen. This consists in the general abstraction of blood by opening one of the veins or smaller arteries, local bleeding by means of cupping, leeches, &c., fomentations, purgatives, diaphoretics, the use of mercury, a spare diet, and cooling drinks. The extent to which these remedies are to be carried must be regulated by the character of the inflammation, its seat, nature, and the peculiarities of the patient, as will be found laid down in the consideration of the different dis- eases here treated of. The preceding description refers chiefly to that form of inflammation, termed acute or phlegmonous inflam- mation. There is another form of inflammation, termed