STJEGERY. 448 duced by the greater quantity of arterial blood circulating in that part, and by augmented frequency of the circu- lation. This increase of temperature is not so great as is frequently imagined, being seldom more than one or two degrees. Mr. Hunter has proved this fact, by introducing the thermometer into inflamed wounds. In the case of inflammation after the operation for hydrocele, the mer- cury rose to 101°. Although we cannot demonstrate an. increase of temperature in inflammation of internal organs, yet we conclude that such is the case, from the feehngs of the patient, and the result of experiments on external parts when inflamed. The Swelling is caused by the increased quantity of blood sent to the part, and also by an effusion of serum, lymph, or pus, into the tissues affected. These local symptoms are usually attended with a disturbed state of the constitution, which is called fever, and which may be considered as the inflammation of the constitution. This is characterised, when well marked, by a full strong pulse, hot skin, furred tongue, constipated bowels, thirst, and some disturbance of the sensorium. Although such are the usual symptoms of inflammation, it must be recollected that these are much modified by the pecuhar nature of the inflammation, the structure of the parts affected, the age, sex, and constitution of the pa- tient; all of which circumstances not only alter the features of the inflammatory action, but influence its ter- mination, and cause us to modify or vary the treatment to be pursued: thus, in erythematous inflammation of the skin, there is but little swelUng, as is also the case when the inflammation exists beneath a resisting fibrous struc- ture, as in cases of deep-seated paronychia ; in inflamma- tion of deep-seated organs, there is seldom any redness apparent externally. Inflammation in the young subject, in general, runs more rapidly to its terminations than in the old, in whom all the actions are more languid. Inflammation terminates in Resolution, Effusion of Serum, Adhesion, Suppuration, Ulceration, and Mortifi- cation. Resolution.—This implies the subsidence of the inflam- matory action, without the production of any visible mor- bid change in the structure of the parts. Resolution is