SURGERY. 670 in its interior, and the blood is forced upon the anasto- mosing branches, which then gradually enlarge and carry the blood into the part of the vessel below the ligature. It thus enters the artery a second time and makes its way into the aneurismal sac, which again begins to pulsate. This is found to take place generally on the second, third, or fourth day after the operation, and is looked on as a favorable symptom, as it proves the establishment of the collateral circulation. Although the blood thus enters the sac a second time, the cure is not prevented but rather facilitated, as this fluid enters into it in such a feeble stream, from its having passed through the anastomosing branches, and from the same cause having approached to the venous character of blood, whereby its coagulation is more likely to take place; the sac is soon filled with coagula, and thus presses on the diseased artery and causes its obliteration. Before this, however, has taken place, the anastomosing branches have become enlarged, and thus conveying the blood in sufficient quantities to the tibial vessels, the circulation is re-established. The contents of the sac and possibly the sac itself, are gradually, e. in a few months, absorbed, and a small hard tumour alone tells its former situation. As these changes are going forwards, the hmb is to be carefully attended to, for the stoppage of the circulation is found to cause a diminution in its temperature, and by lessening its vitality weakens its powers of resisting external agents, such as cold, &c. The hmb should therefore, immediately after this operation, be enveloped in cotton or flannel, and external warmth be applied, if necessary, by means of warm bottles. In the apphcation of the latter remedies, some caution is required, for if used to excess they will stimulate the parts beyond their power of action, and induce mortification. Moist applications should be particularly guarded against, as the evaporation that ensues is highly prejudicial. The eflects and mode of separation of the ligature on the artei7 are both curious and interesting; the internal and middle coat having been cut through, and the current of the blood in the interior of the vessel arrested, this fluid is thrown on the anastomosing branches; a coagu- lum now forms in the interior of the secured vessel both