78 ANATOMY. aud is implauted into tlie anterior part of the greater tuberosity of the humerus; this ligament is almost iden- tified with the capsular ligament, and appears sometimes merely as a few irregular fibres appended to it. The cotyloid or glenoid liyament is placed around the brim of the glenoid cavity, to which it intimately adheres, superiorly continuous with the long head of the biceps, by the sphtting of which it is said to be formed, or, according to some anatomists, forms this tendon; it is triangular, the base attached, the apex free; it is deeper posteriorly than anteriorly; its structure is fibro-cartilaginous, the fibres running obliquely towards the bone; its use is to deepen the glenoid cavity so as to prevent dislocation, and to give origin to the tendon of the biceps. The synovial membrane of this articulation is extensive, and rendered complicated by the passage of the tendon of the biceps, which passes through the articulation, though external to this membrane which invests it. It lines the capsular and cotyloid ligaments, covers the head of the humerus, Unes the inner surface of the tendon of the sub- scapularis and supra-spinatus; someiimes that of the infra-spinatus. As it passes to the neck of the humerus it forms folds, named retinacula. The upper part of this articulation is covered by a bursa which intervenes between it, the coracoid and acromion processes, and the coraco- acromial ligament; it contains much synovia, which ob- viates the effects of friction from the head of the bone pressing against these structures. The shoulder-joint belongs to the class Arthrosis, or, according to some, Euarthrosis. It is the most moveable articulation in the body, enjoying flexion, extension, ab- duction, adduction, rotation, and circumduction. This articulation is exceedingly liable to dislocation, which results from the superficial excavation of the glenoid cavity, and its small size in comparison of the head of the bone, the lax and weak state of the capsular ligament, and the extensive motions it enjoys; were it not, in fact, tor the assistance which the surrounding tendons, bones, &c., (rive to the articulation, and the great mobilily of the scapula wliich follows the head of the bone hkc a faithful friend, dislocation would be almost inevitable on the slightest exertion.