250 ANATOMY. The rectum alone is supplied with nerves, both from the gangUonic and cerebro-spinal system. This is neces- sitated by the functions of this intestine, which is partly upder the influence of the will, and partly independent of it. THE LIVER. The Liver is a conglomerate gland, the largest of the body, from three to four pounds in weight; it is situated in the right hypochondrium, epigastrium, and part of the left hypochondrium. It is superiorly and anteriorly con- vex, inferiorly and posterioriy concave. Its right margin is rounded, whilst its left comes to a point. It is divided, for the sake of description, into a right and left lobe; on the under surface of the right or large lobe, some anato- mists describe three divisions or lobes, with the names lobulus Spigelii, lobulus caudatus, and lohulus quadratus. The latter is the quadrangular portion, bounded by the gall-bladder to the right, the transverse fissure behind, fossa umbilicaUs to the left, and acute margin of the liver in front and below. The lobulus Spigelii is behind the transverse fissure, between the vena cava inferior, and fossa ductus venoai. The liver is kept in its place by five ligaments, which are named the broad, the round, the right and left lateral, and the coronary ligament. These ligaments are formed by the peritoneum, excepting the round ligament, which consists of the remains of the umbilical vein. The liver has two coats, the peritoneal and tunica pro- pria, of cellulo-fibrous structure, which also surrounds the difi'erent vessels, and accompanies them to their minutest ramifications, thus forming the real capsule of Ghsson ot Mr. Kiernan. There are five fissures, or depressions ot the liver, viz., the great or longitudinal fissure, which may be divided into two parts ; the anterior half, named fossa umbilicalis, giving lodgment to part of the round ligament in the adult, and to the umbilical vein in the toetus; the posterior half, named/o*sa ductas venosi, from its function during foetal life; the fissure for the vena porta;, named sulcus transversus, or sinus venae portarum, through wliicti pass the great vessels, nerves, biliary ducts, and absorb-