SUKGERY. 540 SO called from its making its appearance, when first noticed, in tlie thigh; in the upper, inner, and anterior part of which region it descends, beneath Poupart's liga- ment, to the inner side of the femoral vessels. To expose the anatomy of fennoral hernia, raise the integuments from the anterior surface to the upper third of the thigh. On doing so, we bring into view the superficial fascia. This is the common subcutaneous cellular tissue met with in every part of the body beneath the integuments: it is here well marked, and is frequently loaded with fat. On all sides it is continuous with the surrounding cellular tissue. Externally a few transverse fibres may be occa- sionally met with in it. It forms the most superficial covering of a femoral hernia, next to the common in- tegument. In the superficial fascia we notice several artenes, veins, nerves, and lymphatic glands. The artenes are branches of the external circumflexa ilii, external pudic and superficial epigastric arteries: they arise from the femoral artery a little below Poupart's ligament, perforate the cribriform fascia, and are lost in the superficial fascia and integuments. The external circumflexa ilii branches pass outwards behind the ilium; the external pudic to the organs of generation; whilst the superficial epigastric ascends inwards over Poupart's ligament, to be lost in the parietes of the abdomen. The external pudic and superficial epigastric are frequently wounded in the opera- tion for strangulated femoral hernia, and may require a ligature. . , The veins are branches from the surrounding integu- ments, and the great or internal saphena vein. This large vein commences at the inner side of the foot and leg, ascends along the internal surface of the thigh, curves outwards at its upper part, and, at about an inch and a half distance from Poupart's ligament, perforates the cribriform fascia, through the saphenous opening, to join the femoral vein. In some cases a second large vein ascends along the anterior surface of the thigh, which either terminates in the saphena or in the femoral vein. In operating for stran- gulated femoral hernia, as well as in other operations m