I 563 GONORRH(EA. Gonorrhoea is a discharge of purulent matter from the urethra of the male, the vagina, uymphae, &c. of the female, the consequence of a specific inflammation, in- duced by the contact of infectious matter. Gonorrhoea usually appears on the third or fourth day after the appli- cation of the gonorrhceal matter; it may, however, com- mence in a few hours, or not appear for some weeks after. The first symptom of gonorrhoea is, generally, an itching at tlie orifice of the urethra, and sometimes extending over the whole glans; sometimes its earliest symptom is the sensation of a few drops of urine being lodged in the ure- thra, or even a slight heat near the extremity of the ui-ethra. A little fulness of the hps of the urethra is next observable, the glans becomes swollen, and the discharo-e commences. The itching changes into pain, more par- ticularly at the time of voiding the urine. There is often no pain until some time after the appearance of the dis- charge, and other symptoms; and, in many gouorrhceas, there is hardly any pain, even when the discharge is very considerable. At other times, a great degree of soreness occurs long before any discharge appears. There is gene- rally a particular fulness in the penis, and more especially m the glans. The glans has a kind of transparency especially near the beginning of the urethra, where the skm becomes distended, smooth, and red, resemblino- a npe cherry. The orifice of the urethra is, in many In- stances, excoriated. The surface of the glans itself is often in a semi-excoriated state, consequently very tender, and it secretes, as also the inner surface of the prepuce a kind of discharge. The stream of urine becomes smaller than usual, from the swollen state of the penis, and the spasmodic contraction of the urethra, and is generally scattered and broken as soon as it leaves the passage t5ome bleeding occasionaUy occurs from the urethra ' As the disease advances, the discharge increases in quantity, aud the scalding m passing urine becomes much aggrayated; the patient complains of a soreness and pain and uueasiness about the pelvis, scrotum and perineum! and the testes often become tender. The constitution now begins to sympathise, and general fever appears.