INJURIES OF THE HEAD, 473 These symptoms are liable to some variations; thus, one pupil only may be dilated, or both may be even contracted, the stertorous breathing may be wanting altogether, and the pulse is frequently irregular, as well as slow. A relaxa- tion of the sphincters, admitting of an involuntary discharge of the faeces and urine, is a worse symptom than retention of these discharges. We have already described the treat- ment to be adopted in case of a depressed hone producing dangerous symptoms. We may mention, in addition, that the inner table of the skull is, in some cases, alone broken and this pressing on the brain produces the most violent symptoms. The application of the trephine can alone enable us to raise the depressed portion of bone. Extravamted blood may be produced from a rupture of some of the meningeal arteries, of one of the sinuses, or of the veins in the interior of the brain. The situation of the extravasation, therefore, depends on the vessel injured, and thus the blood maybe effused, either between the bone and dura mater, into the arachnoid sac, on the surface of the brain, or in its substance. Unfortunately, there are no pecuhar symptoms which indicate the precise situation, in which the blood is extravasated. When the compression appears to be caused by effused blood, we have recourse to general blood etting, in order, first, to restrain the further effusion of blood, and to relieve the brain as much as possible from the compression, by diminishing the quantity of blood circulating in its veins; secondly, to increase the action of the absorbents, and prevent the occurrence of inflammation. Bloodletting should be followed bv the free use of purgative medicines, of which calomel, succeeded bv sahne aperients, is to be preferred. When these medicines do not act on the bowels, a terebinthinate enema ZuTd be administered. If retention of urine be present, the fluid is to be drawn off with the catheter. When these remedies fail to give rehef and tT,« ,,n+- . appears to be sinking beneath L effet of'^tl tS^^rS sion, the trephine is our last resource. By removin^S" this ins rument a portion of bone over th^e stTcle.f nart we shall give vent to any fluid effused between be K i and dura mater; but when the fluid ha been effi sed n the other situations mentioned, but little success S fo low our operation. Puncturing the dura ma e wm have