DISEASES OP THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 595 from the tunica vaginalis not having become obliterated at its upper part, so as to separate it from the cavity of the peritoneum. It is recognized by the fluid passing up into the abdominal cavity, when the patient is placed in the recumbent posture, and again descending when he assumes the erect posture. A truss should be applied so as to obliterate the communication between the cavities of the tunica vaginalis and peritoneum. "When this is accom- plished any fluid remaining in the tunica vaginalis is easily absorbed by the use of discutieut lotions. DISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. Hcemorrhoids or Piles.—These are, by far, the most fre- quent of all the diseases of the lower part of the rectum; few individuals past the meridian of life being completely free from them. They are small, irregular, vascular tumours, of a dark bluish colour, which form around the margin of the anus, either within or external to the cavity of the rectum: hence divided into internal and external. Haemorrhoids are of two descriptions, consisting either of the dilated extremities of the hsemorrhoidal veins, or of vascular organised tumours. These last are formed in the following manner: from some inflammatory action in the part, lymph, or, according to some, blood is effused into the cellular tissue; the lympli or blood becomes organised, that is, vessels shoot into it, and thus the tumour soon attains a considerable size. In some cases lisemorrhoidal tumours are productive of but little inconvenience, in others, on the contrary, and particularly when inflamed, they become exceedingly painful, and are productive of much suff'ering. In these, the tumours are tense, hard, and painful, the patient being unable to walk, sit, or ride' the only grateful position being the horizontal one. Should he, during the continuance of the inflammation, be obliged to pass a motion, the distress is extreme. With these symptoms there is more or less fever, and even sometimes dehmim. Occasionally one or more of the tumours pour out blood, which gives relief. The treatment of haemorrhoids consists in the use of leeches and fomentations to the part, laxative medicines, and diluent drinks. In the more chronic form, the use of some astringent ointment is beneficial. Some practise