STJEOEEY. 496 part of the cornea. These operations in general fail, from the severe inflammation which supervenes. EXTIRPATION OF THE EYE. The globe of tlie eye is occasionally removed when affected with cancer or fungus hsematodes, or melanosis. The eye should be first fixed with a tenaculum, or suture, passed through its anterior part; then the lids may be separated by a knife at the outer canthus, and with a straight double-edged knife the cellulai- tissue and muscles surrounding the eye are to be divided; the optic nerve is now to be cut across with a curved knife or scissors, and the diseased mass removed. The bleeding may be restrained by filling the orbit temporarily with dossils of lint. The lacrymal gland should be always removed with the eye, as it can be no longer of use when that has been extirpated, and it may cause a return of the disease if left. The lacrymal gland may be removed, when desired, without injury to the globe of the eye. The operation is performed by making an incision through the upper hd, a Uttle below the superior edge of the orbit, and then dis- secting out the diseased mass. For Cancer and Fungus Hsematodes of the Eye, vide Cancer and Fungus Hsematodes. ON FISTULA LACETMALIS. Fistula lacrymalis is a disease of the lacrymal sac, caused by an obstruction to the flow of tears along the nasal duct; but the term Fistula Lacrymalis strictly means a fistulous opening on the cheek, communicating with the lacrymal sac. The symptoms of this disease are an epi- phora, or watering of the eye, from the tears flowing oyer the inferior lid, a chronic inflammation of the conjunctiva of the eye, a distension of the lacrymal sac, attended with a discharge of a muco-purulent fluid mixed with tears from the puncta lacrymaUa, when the sac is compressed, and a dry state of the corresponding nostril. Fistula lacrymalis may be produced by common inflammation, but it is frequently induced by a syphilitic taint in the consti- tution. It is divided into three stages, 1st, when there is only a simply distended state of the lacrymal sac; 2d, ■when there is inflammation and suppuration of the sac; 3d, where a fistulous opening has been formed in the lacrymal sac, by the escape of the purulent matter from