INJUKTBS OF THE HEAD. -1()7 and sound, and disturbed or imperfect rest. A day or two after this attack, if no means preventive of inflammation are used, the part stricken generally swells and becoiues pufiy and tender, but not painful, forming the puffy tu- mour, if no wound be present. The tumour does not rise to any considerable height nor spread to any great extent. If this tumid part of the scalp be now divided, the peri- cranium will be found of a darkish hue, and either quite detached or very easily separable from the skull, between which and it will be found a small quantity of dark coloured ichor. If the disorder has made such progress that the pericranium is quite separated and detached from the skull, the latter will, even now, be found to be some- what altered in colour from a sound healthy bone. From this time the fever generaUy increases, the skin becomes hotter, the pulse quicker and harder, the sleeo more dis- turbed, the anxiety and restlessness more fatiguino- and to these are generally added irregular rigors, which are not followed by critical sweat, and which, instead of relievino- the patient, add considerably to his suffering. If the scalp has not been divided or removed until the symptoms are thus far advanced, the alteration of the colour of the bone will be found to be more remarkable, it will be found to be whiter and more dry than a healthy one, and more Jike a dead bone; the sanies or fluid, between it and the pericranium, will also in this state be found to be more in quantity, and the membrane will have a more livid dis ease^d aspect. In this state of matters, if the dura mater be denuded, it will be found to be detached from the mside of the cranium, to have lost its bright silverv hue and to be, as it were, smeared over with a kind of mucu^' or with matter, but not with blood. Every hour after this period al the symptoms are exasperated and advance with hasty strides; the headache and thirst become more n en the s rength decreases, the rigors are more frequent "nd at last convulsive motions, attended in some with Sum m others with paralysis, and a comatose stuniditv S the tragedy. If the scalp be now divided a Xv Sf discoloured kind of fluill will be found iVinroTi th b^ matter will L found ^i^l^'^Z^'^Z^^^:^