STRANGULATED FEMORAL HERNIA. 551 plished without difficulty if no stricture exist in the neck of the sac. If this should be the case, it must be divided, and thus the hernia reduced. The principal objection to this method of operating arises from the risk of wounding in its performance the obturator artery, when it arises from the epigastric, and crosses the front and inner side of the hernial sac. This variety in the course of the artery is so very rare as to constitute no solid objection to the practice; indeed the artery may be avoided even when it takes this course, by making use of a bistoury resembling Sir A. Cooper's blunt-pointed bistoury, but differing from it in having a cutting edge of only three or four lines in extent. By this means the ligament can alone be cut; a very slight incision being sufficient for our purpose. The cutting of the ligament is at once ascertained by the operator by the peculiar feel it communicates to his hand. The plan recommended by Sir A. Cooper, of cutting the stricture upwards, forwards, and inwards, exposes the spermatic cord, and consequently the spermatic artery, to injury in the male subject. By dividing Poupart's liga- ment, it also weakens the lower part of the abdomen. It is true that the vast experience of this eminent surgeon gives to any recommendation from him an authority which should be opposed with diffidence; yet we must recollect that this very experience enabled him to perform operations with safety, that might in less skilful hands be attended with considerable difficulty and danger. Hence surgeons prefer the operation recommended by Gimbernat; and this, there can be no question if properly performed, will be sufficient, as by it we enlarge the femoral ring, which is all that is requisite to the reduction of the hernia. On no account should we cut upwards and outwards as the epigastric artery and femoral vein lie in this direction. It has been proposed of late years to divide the stricture external to the hernial sac, and then to return the whole mto the abdomen. Such a proceeding is impossible, as the sac contracts adhesions immediately after its descent to the surrounding parts; and even were it possible, it is highly objectionable, as it frequently occurs tha^ the stricture is situated m the neck of the sac, or it may be in