59 THE CLAVICLE AND THE SCAPULA. the bone is composed, meet, and that fracture is so fre- quent; its under surface is rough, for the attachment of the costo-clavicular ligament; towards its scapular, or acromial extremity, the clavicle becomes flattened supe- riorly and inferiorly, and gives attachment by its anterior concave edge to the deltoid muscle, by its posterior con- vex edge to the trapezius; inferiorly it is rough, and marked by a groove for the insertion of the subclavius muscle; in this part is the foramen for the nutritious artery of the bone; external to this is a rough surface, for the insertion of the conoid and trapezoid ligaments. The acromial end has its superior and inferior surfaces rough, for the attachment of ligaments connecting it to the acromion process ; it is marked at its outer edge by an articular surface. The clavicle articulates with only two bones, the sternum and scapula. The use of the clavicle is to keep back the shoulder and connect the scapula to the trunk, being their only bony connection; it also protects the subclavian artery and vein, and brachial plexus of nerves, from injury: its me- dullary canal is not well marked. In the female the clavicle is longer in proportion and less curved than in the male ; it is also much smaller and more circular in shape. In the fmtus it is the first bone developed, appearing so early as the sixth week; it has three points of ossification, one for the body and one for each extremity; that for the body appears much sooner than the others. This bone is more perfectly ossified at birth than any others, excepting the ossicula aiiditus. Muscles attached to the Clavicle : Sterno-masloideus. Subclavius. Pectoralis major. Deltoides. Trapezius. Slerno-liyoideus. The Scapula is placed at the posterior and upper part of the trunk, extending from the second to the seventh rib inclusive it is of a triangular shape, and is divided into two surjaces, an anterior and posterior; three edg-es or borders, a superior ^posterior or vertebral, and an inferior ov axillary ; and three angles, which are posterior, inferior and anterior. j y