252 ANATOMY. uniting tOgetlier in the portal canals, form, ultimately, tlie hepatic duct. Thus it will he seen that the blood for the nutrition of the liver is brought by the hepatic artery, wliilst that for the special function is brought by the portal vein. The reflected blood from both vessels "being returned into the system by the hepatic veins, whilst the bile is carried off by the hepatic duct. It would appear, however, by the blood of the hepatic artery being passed through the portal circulation of the liver before entering the \ense cavse hepaticae, that some bile occasionally may be secreted from that source, and such has sometimes been found to be the case, for, in a few rare instances, the portal vein has been found entirely obstructed, whilst the secretion of bile has proceeded almost as usual. The portal vein has by some been considered as forming a species of third vascular system, for in it the venous blood collected from the intestinal canal is gathered into a large trunk, which passes into the transverse fissure of the liver to divide, as previously mentioned. It is not clearly known how the portal blood has sufficient impetus to go through this additional circulation (for the portal vein has no valves). But by some the vis a tergo of the venous blood has been thought sufficient, whilst others have made the spleen the organ for its propulsion ; a third party have considered that the portal vein has special propulsive powers, though they have not adduced sufficient proof to support such an hypothesis. The vena portse is formed by the junction ot the superior mesenteric vein, with the splenic vein, which, before the junction, receives besides the veins of the spleen, the veins of the stomach pancreas, and inferior mesenteric vein. It carries blood of a very dark colour, and is unlike all other vessels of the body ; for it commences like a vein, by small branches, which converge to form a large trunk, behind the pancreas, and this entering the liver, resembles aii artery in its mode of division and ramifications, and functions. The excretory ducts of the liver, tubuli biliani, arise from the acini or lobules, and ultimately unite to form the hepatic duct, which, by joining itself with the cystic duct, forms the ductus communis choledochus.