THE MOUTH, PHAEYNX, AND (ESOPHAGUS. 217 velum pendulum palati, laterally by the tonsils and arches of the palate, and inferiorly by the tongue. The salivanj glands are, the parotid, sublingual, and submaxillary, on each side. The parotid gland, so named from its situation near tbe ear, is bounded— Anteriorly, by the ramus of the jaw. Posteriorly, by the mastoid pr ocess and external auditory meatus. Internally, by the styloid process and its muscles. Externally, by fascia, fibres of the platysma, and integuments. Superiorly, by the zygoma. Inferiorly, by the stylo-maxillary ligament and digastric muscle. It surrounds within its substance the external carotid artery, with the roots of the temporal, internal maxillary and transverse facial branches, the temporal and internal ma-xillary vein, the portio dura, auricular nerve of the cervical plexus, auricular branch of the fiftb pair of nerves and some lymphatic glands. Internal to the styloid muscles and this gland we find the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein. The parotid is a conglomerate gland, and consists of a series of lobules, made distinct by the vessels and nerves, and partly by the fascia, which covers it externally, forming a species of capsule; one portion of it overlaps tbe masseter muscle, and has been named socia ■parotidis ; a portion of It posteriorly and superiorly occupies part of the glenoid cavity. From these several lobes, little ducts converge to torm the parotid or stenonian duct. This duct runs torward upon the masseter muscle, nearly an inch below the zygoma, passes through a quantity of fat, which rests on the buccinator muscle, then perforates this muscle and opens luto the mouth opposite about the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. It consists of two coats, the Unin- one mucous, coutmuous with the membrane of the mouth* and an outer one, fibrous. It is narrowest in its centre somewhat dilated at each extremity, and is a compaS by the ransverse facial artery and middle divis oTorthe nerves from the pes anserinus. "ivihion ot tlie The siibmaxillary gland occupies part of the snace —s!externallAy\S5-:i-iS2i:?S^^: