ANATOMY. 150 The hippocam'pus major somewhat resembles in shape a cerebral convolution ; from its twisted form it has also been called the cornu ammonis. It presents a curve of which the convexity is outwards and the concavity inwards, and at its inferior and anterior extremity it presents the pes hippocampi. This latter is a row of small elevations from three to five in number, and somewhat resembling the foot of an animal. External to the part where the cornu makes its curve forwards there is seen another slight elevation, called theses accessorius, or emineniia collateralis. The corpus fimhriatum, or tcEnia hippocampi, is a thin falciform process of white substance, forming the free anterior border of the hippocampus major. It gradually becomes narrow and ends in a point a little behind the pes hippocampi. The fa&cia dentata is a narrow line of grey substance situated below the lower border of the corpus fimbriatum, its edge is marked by several small transverse notches, whence it has its name. The hippocampus major is found to be a lateral con- tinuation of the posterior border of the corpus callosum and fornix, and, in the same way, the corpus fimbriatum, or, as it is sometimes called, the taenia hippocampi, is a continuation of the posterior pillar of the fornix. The lateral ventricles are separated from one another by a thin longitudinal partition, composed of nervous sub- stance passing from the corpus callosum above to the fornix below, named septum lucidum. This septum lucidum is considerably deeper anteriorly than posteriorly, and con- tains between its two layers a small cavity, lined with a pecuUar serous membrane, and called the fifth ventricle. On each side the septum is composed of a layer of grey matter externally, and white internally. At the anterior part of the septum lucidum, but beneath the narrow an- terior part of the fornix, is seen a small hole, called the foramen of Monro, through which, on each side, passes the 'Choroid plexus, the two foramina leading to a single foramen behind the anterior pillars of the fornix through which both choroid plexuses pass, to expand on the roof of the third ventricle, and form the velum interjjosifum. The thalami oiHici are two large, firm, oblong bodies, nearly an inch and a half long, by three fourths of an inch