324 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. pharynx, and is attaclied with them to the os hyoides and sides of the larynx and trachea; it is not so well markea inferiorly. This fascia is no doubt of use in preventing the over-distension of the pharynx. Beneath this, lie tbe muscles of the pharynx. These present an arrangement not to be met with in any other part of the body; that is, overlapping one another from below upwards, iney are symmetrical, and consist of three pairs of muscles, named from their office the constrictors of the pharynx, supenor, middle, and inferior. They have aU one common attach- ment to the mesial line posteriorly, and by means ot tins to the basilar process of the occipital bone, ihe ttesHy fibres of the inferior constrictor do not reach the occipital bone A small semicircular space, in which the muscular fibres are deficient, exists superiorly, between the occipita and temporal attachments of the superior constrictor named the sinus of Morcjagni; this corresponds interuaUy to the openin- of'the Eustachian tube: between the temporal and pterygoid attachments of this muscle, the muscles of the ielum lie ; between its pterygoid and maxillary attachments the internal pterygoid muscle and the gustatory nerve are ''^The l^harynx is lined internally by mucous membrane. This is continuous above with that Uning the nares, Eustachian tubes, fauces, and larynx, and inferior y descends into the (esophagus. This is covered by a thm layer of cuticle, named the epithelium, continued from the external integuments through the mouth P^^^^^-^l phagus, the stomach, at the cardiac orifice, of^h ch it chauo-es its character. The epithelium m the upper S as far as the floor of the nostrils, colunnar and a7ia^ecZ, but in the part below 52Ma»KOMS. The mucous membrane of the pharynx is of a i^^i e rose pink colour. It contains a number of mucous tollicles which, together with the surface ot the membrane and the tonsils, pour out a quantity of mucus which serves to moisten the food and protect the membrane, ihe pha- rynx receives its supply of blood principally from the nharyngea ascendens artery, a few branches are also distributed to it from the palatine, the superior; a"^ inferior thyroid arteries. Its nervous supply is derivea from the pharyngeal plexus.