372 EEGIOXAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY, perinea] fascia; runs inwards and slightly forwards, be- tween the layers of the triangular ligament; enters the bulb, and supplies the corpus spongiosum urethrse. This artery is much endangered in the operation of lithotomy, and should be avoided. Sir A. Cooper mentions a case of haemorrhage from the urethra, in which he cut down and divided this artery, to arrest the bleeding, with success. 5. Arteria corporis cavernosi penis. At the ramus of the pubes the pudic artery perforates the triangular liga- ment and runs between the bone and the crus penis; it here divides into the artery of the cavernous body and the dorsal artery of the penis. The former perforates the crus penis, runs forwards in the corpus caveruosum, close to the septum pectiniforme, and terminates by supplying the erectile tissue of that body, and anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side through the septum. 6. Arteria dorsalis penis ascends between the ramus of the pubes and crus penis, joins the dorsal veins and nerves of the penis, runs between the fibres of the suspensory ligament, and then passes forwards in the groove on the dorsum of the penis, beneath the skin and superficial fascia, as far as the corona glandis, in which and the pre- ouce it is lost. In cases of haemorrhage from the penis, arising from sloughing ulcers, ruptured urethra, or other causes, it may be necessary to tie the dorsal artery; this is easily done by making an incision on the dorsum of the penis, in the course of the artery. Hsemorrhage from the urethra may be restrained by passing a silver catheter into the canal, and then applying a bandage tightly round the penis. In more urgent cases, Sir A. Cooper's practice may be followed, or the pudic ai-tery be compressed, where it crosses the spine of the ischium. The dorsal artery of the penis sometimes arises, as a distinct branch from the internal iliac artery, whence it passes directly forwards, along the lateral surface of the neck of the bladder and prostate gland, to its destination ; should the operation of lithotomy be performed in a subject where this variety exists, it would be almost impossible to avoid wounding the artery. In amputations of the penis, the dorsal arteries and the arteries of the corpora cavernosa arc usually tied ; there is some difficulty in securing the latter, from their retracting into the cells of the cavernous body; where they cannot be tied, pressure should be applied on the part by means of a dossil of lint. The pudic artery has an analogous course and distri- bution in the female to the male; its terminating branches