TREATMENT OF FEACTUEES. 607 after their application and the surgeon has disregarded or overlooked the circumstance. In such cases the bandages should be at once loosened, and soothing remedies applied to the limb, aided by the usual means resorted to for the prevention of gangrene. Thirdly.—So7-es forming on the limb; these are produced by the pressure of a bandage or a splint, by the limb resting on a particular part, and are often exceedingly troublesome, degenerating into ill-conditioned ulcers, very difficult to heal. On their first appearance all pressure should be at once re- moved, and, if necessary, the position of the limb changed; the sores may be protected by the emplastrum saponis ; greasy applications are not recommended, as they are liable to produce excoriations of the parts. ^omi\Ay.—Non-union. This we shall treat of hereafter. It is always a judicious plan to change the position of the limb at least once during the treatment of the simple frac- ture, so as to give relief to the patient and prevent anchy- losis of the articulation, which will be still further pre- vented by gentle motion of the joint. The tnode of union in simple fracture is analogous to union by the first intention in the softer parts, and differs but little from the manner in which bone is originally formed. Immediately after the fracture has taken place a quantity of blood is poured out into the surrounding cellular tissue by the vessels of the bone, periosteum, and adjoining structures; inflammation now sets in, the perios- teum becomes thickened, increased in vascularity, and is easily detached from the bone, the ends of the bone become rounded off, increased in size and vascularity, and become softened. By this time the blood originally effused is absorbed, and new lymph is poured out from the bone periosteum, and surrounding soft parts around the fracture' Ihis lymph becomes united with the ends of the bone and thus acts as a bond of union between them. The lymph soon becomes organised, vessels are formed in it which pour out the bony matter into its interstices, and thus os- sification proceeds until complete union has taken place nnTwnlf ■^^''''f "ood first effused, and ^w'' .f^'^'J^'^ deposition of the ossific matter. We consider this to be incorrect, since, on ex- amining a fracture that has been recently united, we find