DISLOCATIONS. 643 pulleys are used. The bone is afterwards to be kept from slipping out again, by tying the patient's thighs together, with a bandage placed a little above the knees. The patient should be kept in bed at least three weeks, use moderate diet, and have the joint rubbed with a camphorated lini- ment. Due time must be given for the lacerated ligaments to unite, and the sprained parts to recover; premature exercise may bring on inflammation, and irremediable disease in the joint. In this dislocation the head of the femur rests on the dorsum of the ilium, covered by the gluteus maximus and medius, having lacerated some of the fibres of the gluteus minimus; the small muscles about the joint, viz. the pyriformis, gemelli, obturators, and qua- dratus femoris, are either torn or put on the stretch; the psoas magnus and iliacus internus are also extended, and some of the neighbouring vessels and nerves injured. Dislocation backwards into the sciatic notch.—This dis- location is caused like that on the dorsum of the ilium, but when the thigh is somewhat more advanced. In this case, according to Sir A. Cooper, the head of the femur is placed on the pyriformis muscle, between the upper edge of the sciatic notch and the great sciatic hgament, being behind the acetabulum, and a httle above the level of the middle of that cavity. Symptoms.—The limb is generally not more than half an inch shorter than its fellow, and the knee and foot are turned inwards. The thigh inclines a little forwards, the knee is slightly bent, and the limb is so fixed that flexion and rotation are, in a great measure, prevented. The other symptoms of the dislocation are the same as those of the displacement of the dorsum of the ilium, but are not so distinctly marked. The head of the bone is felt with difiiculty from its being sunk in the sciatic notch, and the great trochanter is removed further from the spine of the ilium. Reduction: The pelvis being fixed, the extension IS to be made downwards and forwards, across the middle of the other thigh, so as to dislodge the head of the bone while the surgeon, with a napkin placed below the tro- chanter mmor, elevates the upper part of the femur to- wards the acetabulum. Dislocation upwards and forwards on the horizontal ramus of the pubes.—This accident occurs when the thigh