ANATOMY, 80 lies under the origin of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle. Superiorly it is attached to the internal condyle of the humerus: from this its fibres descend in a radiated manner, and divide into two fasciculi, of which one is anterior, the other posterior: the anterior fasciculus passes downwards and a little backwards, and is implanted into the inner surface of the coronoid process of the ulna; the posterior passes almost directly backwards, and inserts itself into the side of the olecranon. On cutting into the articulation, it will be found lined by synovial membrane, which is reflected upon the ligaments just described, and also covers the neck and cup-like cavity of the radius, and then lines the orbicular ligament. The elbow-joint is a perfect Angular Ginghjmiis; its motions, therefore, are confined to flexion and extension. THE RADIO-ULNAR AKTICOLATIONS. These are two in number: the superior and inferior. The superior radio-ulnar articulation is formed between the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna and the Up of the radius ; one ligament alone exists here, named the orbicular or annular ligament. This is a strong resisting ligament, anteriorly attached to the edge of the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna; it surrounds two thirds of the head of the radius, passing also to a short extent on its neck, and is implanted posteriorly into the posterior edge of the lesser sigmoid cavity: this ligament is of a strong fibrous, or, in some instances, of a fibro-cartilaginous nature ; it has in- serted into It the external lateral ligament, and the anterior ligament of the joint; externally it is covered by the supinator brevis muscle; internally it is hned by the synovial membrane, which is continuous with that of tiie elbow-joint. This articulation belongs to the class Lateral Ginghjmus ; its motions are rotatory. Besides the Ugaments just enumerated as being con- nected with these articulations, we have the anterior oblique ligament, which cannot be classed with any par- ticular joint. The anterior oblique ligament is attached superiorly and internally to the coronoid process of the ulna, below the insertion of the bracbialis anticus muscle, descends obliquely outwards, lying internal to the biceps tendon.