SURGEEY. 724 use of nutritive food, wine, bark (if it should be found to agree with the patient), and opium. The latter remedy is of much service, as there is always a great tendency to relaxation of the bowels, which is best controlled by this medicine, or a combination of it with chalk mixture. When the sloughs have separated, and suppuration is established, the fifth stage, or that of cicatrisation, com- mences. The poultices may now be laid aside, and moderately-stimulating ointments, such as the ceratum calaminse, uuguentum zinci, unguentum nitratis hydrargyri dilutum, be applied. Lotions too will be found useful, particularly as they are more efficacious than ointments in lessening the discharge, which is usually profuse: of these the best are the lotio acetatis zinci, liquor plumbi, diacetatis dilutus, lotio sulphatis aluminis, lotio sul- phatis zinci, and lotio sulphatis cupri. The treatment of the suppurating surface is often troublesome, from the exuberance of spongy granulations, and frequent bleedings from the surface. The sulphas cupri, or nitras argenti, used in substance, or pressure, if it can be properly apphed, or the pulvis calaminse, will be found most efficacious under these circumstances. As the wound cicatrises there is a great tendency to contraction, so much so, that naturally distinct parts may be united together, the motions of the joints destroyed, or great deformity pro- duced. The occurrence of such accidents should be prevented by proper position, splints and bandages, which should be worn for some time after the cicatrisation has taken place. Burns may prove fatal in any one stage; thus iu the first stage, or that of collapse; from the shock of the accident causing a too great sinking of the powers of life. In the second, or that of reaction: from the reaction being too slight, and the patient again sinking into a state of collapse. In the tliird, or that of inflammation: from the violence of the inflammatory fever, or from inflammation attacking some of the internal organs, such as those of the head, thorax, or abdomen. In the fourth, or that of sloughing, and suppuration: from the constitutional irritation induced, from hectic fever, and the gradual sinking of the patient.