687 TUM0UB3 OF THE BKEAST. bv its great size, elasticity, freedom from acute pain and re- gidar surface; it only requires operation from its size. The large pendulous breast tells its own story, and requires mechanical support. The malignant diseases of the breast are two, viz. scir- rhus and fungus heematodes, also named encephaloid tumour, or soft cancer. . Fuuo-oid disease of the breast is not often seen. It is a disease of early life and a scrofulous habit; it begins with a soft elastic tumour, which increases rapidly, ap- proaches the surface, points like an abscess, and on being opened, discharges a thin bloody fluid. A fungus shoots out from the wound, which sometimes bleeds ; the patient's health becomes impaired, the lungs become often diseased, the abdomen swells, the limbs become cedematous, and the patient dies with general dropsy; the disease is consti- tutional and incurable. Fungoid disease is most likely to be mistaken for hy- datid breast, but may be distinguished as follows: Fungus. Often preceded, always attended with constitutional derangement; appears composed of two or three large masses somewhat rounded; superficial veins much enlarged; adheres to the pectoral muscle. Carcinoma or cancer of the breast generally occurs about the age of forty to fifty, occasionally before or after those periods. It seems to be in some degree hereditary, and at all events is a constitutional disease. The tumour is at first of a small size, increasing with variable rapidity; found most frequently in the axillary side of the breast, very hard, moveable at first, afterwards less so; is ac- companied with lancinating pains, sometimes severe, in- creases gradually, contracts adhesions with the skin, produces distortion and drawing in of the nipple, ultimately causes a redness of the skin, followed by ulceration and a discharge of fetid matter; the edges of the ulcer turn out, bleeding occurs, sometimes profusely, from ulceration of the vessels. It is accompanied with enlargement of the axillary glands, swelling of the arm, difiiculty of breathing, cough, abdominal pains, dropsy of the abdo- Hydatid Breast. General health not obviously affected; presents a number of re- gular eminences of a globular form; superficial veins not much enlarged; unattached and pendulous.