ERTSIPELAS. 735 portion of which may be adherent together for some distance. For these cases, Dupuytren has recommended a species of forceps; the blades of which, bemg closed at the projecting angle, cause it to slough, and thus remove the obstacle to the cure of the disease; this practice, in most cases, has been found to induce such violent symp- toms, as to deter surgeons from resorting to it. When the contents of the intestine cannot escape, and symptoms of strangulated hernia set in, the artificial opening may be dilated, or a gum-elastic tube passed into the intestine, and enemata administered, so as to remove the substance impacted in the aperture. In incurable cases, it will be necessary for the patient to wear a tin case or other recep- tacle for the contents of the intestine. Formation of an Artificial Anus.—Cases have occurred of imperforate anus, or where the rectum has been obstructed by disease, that, to prolong life, it has been decided to form an artificial anus. The spot selected for this purpose by Amussat, is the descending colon, in the space between the last ribs and crest of the ilium. An incision is made transversely midway between the above points, external to the lumbar muscles', the skin fasciae and abdominal muscles are to be cut through, and when the colon is reached, it is to be opened without wounding the peritoneum, the edges of the opened bowel are to be stitched to the lips of the wound that a permanent opening may remain, which may be covered, when necessary, by appropriate means. EEYSIPELAS. The term erysipelas is usually applied to a peculiar form of inflammation, distinguished by a strong tendency to diffuse itself widely. There are two principal varietes of it, named erythematous and phier/morions, and a third, less common, but quite as fatal, which may be called diffuse cellular inflammation. These diseases may be described as idiopathic and traumatic, as applicable to the first ; but the two latter seldom occur without mechanical injury, or the application of some poisonous matter to the body.