NERVES OP THE ARM. I79 Two articular branches to the elbow-joint. A branch to the flexor carpi ulnaris. A branch to the ulnar half of the flexor profundus digitorum. Filaments to the wrist-joint. A branch quits it, about two inches above the wrist, runs under the flexor carpi ulnaris, and arrives at the siu-face of the extensor ulnaris to reach the little finger. It gives a filament to the ulnar side of the httle finger, and another which bifurcates to supply the opposed sides of the ring and little finger, and communicates with the digital filaments of the musculo-spiral. The superficial branch of the hand goes to supply the little finger and half the ring finger; one branch of it runs along the muscles of the little finger, giving them filaments, and courses along the ulnar side of this finger, as far as the tip ; the other filament runs along the surface of the adductor minimi digiti, and having united with a fila- ment from the median, on arriving at the head of the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones, bifmrcates to supply the opposed sides of the rino- and little fingers. ° The deep-seated palmar branch forming the deep arch of nerves, smks deep in the hand, passing beneath the adductor minimi digiti' and runnmg upon the interossei muscles, beneath the flexor tendons and termmatmg by filaments to the adductor poUicis. It gives fila- ments to the small muscles of the fingers, and to the interossei muscles, and two internal lumbricales. The median nerve takes its origin from the brachial plexus, by two roots which embrace the axillary artery; they soon unite, to form a single nerve, which descends about half way down the arm, on the outer side of the brachial artery; after which it inclines over the artery then gets to its inner side, gradually diverging from it, so that at the bend of the elbow there is a distinct space between them; in this course it rests upon the coraco- brachiahs and brachialis anticus, internal to the biceps muscle; it then passes between the two origins of the pronator teres, and descends between the flexor sublimis and profundus, passes under the annular hgament at the wnst and terminates in the hand by its digital branches. Ihe branches and filaments given off by it are the fol- lowing : J ^ i.\jL Numerous WMscM/ar twigs in the fore-arm tn all • not supplied by the ulnar. ' " ^'"^ "^^scles The anterior interosseous nerve, which accompanies the corresnond ing artery runs between the flexor profundus and flexor pollicisToE ' as tar as the pronator radu quadratus; it runs beno^ll, tl 1 „ ' forates the interosseous ligament to arrive nrtl '""^ P'^'"' hand, to which it distributes filaments '^'''''^ "'^