682 SURGERY. MUSCULAR TUMOURS. These are found in the substance of muscles, and are of rare occurrence. They are little evident externally, are slightly moveable in the relaxed state of the muscle, but fixed when the muscle is contracted ; when operated on, a large portion of muscle requires to be removed. Encysted muscular melanosis is very rare. The tumour formed by it, when cut into, exhibits a hard dark-coloured substance, containing a nucleus of osseous matter, sur- rounded by a dark-coloured fluid, inclosed in a black crust. It has not assumed a malignant character. Scirrhous muscular tumour has been seen in the practice of Dr. Warren, it arose in the rectus muscle in consequence of a blow. After being removed by the knife, it presented a cartilaginous hardness; its colour was brownish, its texture was granular intermixed with fibrous organisation, and around it the vessels were much enlarged. Malignant melanosis is characterised by a hard tumour, internally of a black colour; the constitution suffers, and puts on the cancerous diathesis. Fungus hamatodes occurs in muscles, seldom, perhaps never, as a primary aff"ection. It assumes the same cha- racter as elsewhere. There is first an irregular swelling with some pain. The swelling increases and points through the skin, which gives way, and a quantity of blood is dis- charged ; an oozing continues till a dark-coloured fungus protrudes of considerable diameter, and elevated above the surface; frequent hsemorrhage takes place, the disease ex- tends to the neighbouring glands, and the patient dies from exhaustion. It requires removal by the knife in an early stage. TUMOURS OF THE TENDONS. Tendons are rarely enlarged in the form of tumours. They may be thickened by rheumatism and syphilis ; but a tumour of these is generally the result of powerful mus- cular action. Such tumours are hard, generally not painful, insensible, and difficult to remove. They may injure the motion of the limb by their mechanical pres- sure.