211 THE TONGUE. THE TONGUE. The toDgue is not only the organ of taste but assists materially in deglutition, suction, and speech, and is a delicate organ of touch. It may be described as formed by muscles, arteries, veins, nerves, and its papillaj or most sensitive portions. In shape the tongue is oblong, coming to a point anteriorly. Its dorsum is convex, but marked in its centre by a groove or raphe, which divides it into two lateral symmetrical parts. Upon its inferior surface is the frsenum which separates the two sides, and connects the tongue with the floor of the mouth, and mesial line of the lower jaw. Upon the superior and posterior surface of the tongue IS seen a little round depression, called the foramen ccecum, which forms a small reservoir for the mucous secretion of the foUicles placed in its neighbourhood. The muscles of the tongue are generally described as five m number, viz., the hyoglossus, the genio-hyoglossus, iinguahs, styloglossus, and palatoglossus. The stylofflossus (most externally) arises from the styloid process of the temporal bone, and the stylo-hyoid lio-a- ment; it passes forwards and downwards to be inserted along the side of the tongue. The hyo-glossus arises from the whole of the great cornu and part of the body of the os hyoides, and passes upwards and outwards to be inserted into the whole side of the tongue, crossing the styloglossus muscle, internal to which it ues. The lingualis (the next deepest) has but a slight bonv attachment to the os hyoides ; it passes forwards alone the i"s sX't^nc/.*^'' '"^ ^^'""^'^ inseparably'with 'IhQ genio-hyo-glossus, most internal, arises from a little tubercle inside the symphysis of the lower jaw, from which point the fibres spread out like a fan, the low st to be in- serted into Uie OS hyoides, the highest to reach the tip of the tongue, the mtervenmg fibres being attached all ZZ Its lower surface from the one point to the oth r I foS the posterior part of the freenum lingua, the anterior being little more than membrane. u^iug Immediately beneath the genio-hyoglossus arises another