300 REGIONAL AND SUEGICAL ANATOMY, last forms for it a distinct capsule, the outer layer of which is the stronger. A small process pf this gland winds round the posterior edge of the mylo-hyoid muscle, accompanies its excretory duct, and lies with it between the muscle and the mucous membrane of the mouth. The submaxillary gland, like the other salivary glands, is of a pale fawn colour ; it is divided into distinct portions by dehcate prolongations of cellular tissue, and is crossed (sometimes perforated) by the facial artery, and sometimes the vein, which pass through a deep groove near its pos- terior extremity. The structure of this gland consists of a number of acini, united by cellular tissue, from each of which a small primary tube proceeds; and these, uniting together, form the ex- cretory duct. This, the Whartonian duct, leaves the gland at its outer end, winding above the mylo-hyoid muscle, and runs forwards and inwards, opens on the side of the frsenum linguee, where its orifice may be distinguished by a small papiUa beneath the tongue. This duct receives also a few ducts from the sublingual gland. Its structure is composed of an external fibrous coat, and an internal lining mucous membrane. The fibrous coat is thin and delicate, so that the cavity of the duct is larger in propor- tion than that of Steno's duct. A second or accessory duct sometimes exists. The submaxillary gland is supplied with blood irom the glandular branches of the labial artery. Its nerves axe chiefly derived from the chorda tympani. The submaxillary gland is sometimes, but not frequently, attacked with inflammation and its consequences. It is liable, in chUdren, to a specific inflammation, known by the name of Mumps. Its duct is sometimes obstructed by a calculus, or other cause, when it swells and forms a large tumour named T^anitte, which projects into the cavity of the mouth, beneath the side of the tongue, interfering with the motions of this organ, and wth the acts of respiration and deglutition. The treatment of this disease is simple; it consists in making an opening into the tumour from the mouth, and keeping the aperture patulous by means of a tent or style, as recommended by Dupuytren, or by touching the cavity with nitrate of silver, caustic potash, or the actual cautery. A simple puncture will sometimes be sufficient for its removal. The submaxillary gland is also sometimes the seat of mabgnant disease; if so, its extirpation should be had recourse to, if not