734 SURGEEY. with which they are connected, and may destroy the motion of the finger or of the hand. They are very troublesome on the dorsum of the foot, from their becoming irritated by the pressure of the boot or shoe. Ganghons are sometimes dispersed by the use of pressure and stimulating liniments. In general, this plan is ineffectual. The best method then is to rupture them with a blow given by a book or mallet. The contents of the sac are absorbed, and the cyst becomes obliterated, by adhesive inflammation. When this plan is not likely to succeed, either from the size of the tumour, the thickness of the cyst, or from being situated amongst soft parts, as the bellies of the muscles, they should be carefully dissected out. Opening them is objectionable, as violent inflamma- tion often results; not unfrequently a fungus of a most troublesome, and according to some of a maUgnant charac- ter, makes its appearance from the interior of the cyst. The contents of a ganglion consist of a viscid transparent fluid, resembhng white of egg. In some cases these tumours contain a number of smaEwliite seed-like bodies. Artificial Anus is an artificial opening in some part of the abdominal parietes, by which the contents of the intes- tine escape externally. It is generally the result of stran- gulated hernia, but may be caused by wounds or other injuries of the abdomen. The disease is productive of much distress to the patient, as the intestinal contents are discharged involuntarily; the mucous membrane protrudes through the opening, and discharges a quantity of rnucu*, which excoriates the parts much, and the aperture becoming contracted, may prevent the passage of the contents of the intestine, and thus induce symptoms of strangulated hernia. We should treat this disease by endeavouring to cause the intestinal contents to pass along the natural canal; this is done by the administration of eneraata, and by making pressure on the opening, by means of a truss ; when the intestine, in which the artificial anus exists, may become suQiciently retracted to allow of the descent of its contents into the lower part of tlie canal. In some cases this cannot be accomplished from the acuteness of the angle formed by the fold of intestine injured; the upper and lower