THE RADIUS. 65 ^Pronator radii teres. I Flexor carpi radialis. internal condyle by common < ,. „ ulnaris. tendon / „ mblimis digitorum. ^ Palmaris hngus. THE BONES OF THE FORE-ARM. The bones of the fore-arm are the radius and ulna. The Radius is situated on the outer and anterior part of the fore-arm; it is shorter than the ulna, but extends beyond it inferiorly to form the wrist-joint; it is small and rounded superiorly and inferiorly, expands considerably, is flattened, and quadrilateral; it may be divided into the head, neck, tubercle, body, and lower extremity. The head of the radius is circular and concave, incrusted with cartilage, and forms a cup-hke cavity to receive the capi- tulum of the humerus; it is surrounded by a projecting lip of bone, covered also by cartilage ; expanded internally, where it corresponds to the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna; more narrow and prominent externally, where it is surrounded by the annular or orbicular ligament: beneath this is the neck of the radius, small, circular, and contracted, about an inch in length, and encircled partially by the annular ligament; beneath it, and on the internal anterior part of the radius, is the tubercle, rough internally, where it gives insertion to the tendon of the biceps ; smooth an- teriorly, where it is covered by a bursa, which separates it from this tendon ; the body of the radius descends from this, and presents three surfaces, an anterior, posterior, and external, separated by as many ridges; the anterior- surface concave, broad, and expanded inferiorly, gives attachment to muscles; at the junction of its upper and middle third, and to its outer side, it presents the foramen for the nutritious artery directed upwards; the external sur- face IS convex, rounded, and arched outwards; the posterior surface is convex superiorly, concave in the centre, and con- vex infenorly, where it is covered by the extensor tendons. Of the th,-ee ridyes, the internal is the best marked ; It gives a tachment to the interosseous ligament; the an- terior and posterior are indistinct. The inferior ox carpal extremity of the radius, is the largest part of the bone; it is quadrilateral, flattened, and concave anteriorly, for the insertion of the pronator quad-