SURGERY. 672 hiEmorrhage, mortification, the formation of abscesses along tlie course of the artery, the too free anastomosis of vessels with the sac, and from constitutional causes. 1. Seco7idary hcemorrhage occurs sometimes immediately after the operation, from the ligature not having been properly secured, or applied to the vessel. If such should be the case, the wound should be opened, and the artery properly secured. It more frequently occurs at a more distant period, viz. either towards the close of the first week, or about the time of separation of the hgature; in the former case the vessel tied has been most probably in a diseased state; in the latter also this may be the case, or the adhesive inflammation may not have taken place, either from some defect in the constitution, inflam- mation of the wound, or from the artery having been tied too close to an anastomosing branch, by which the formation of an internal coagulum, and the subsequent contraction of the vessel have been prevented. The bleeding commences in small quantities, the blood being of a dark colour, escaping without a jet, and in general issuing from the lower ex- tremity of the vessel. Compression should first be tried, and if this fail, the artery should be tied still higher up. This secondary operation seldom succeeds, as the con- stitution of the patient is not in a fit state for its perform- ance, and the lining membrane of the artery is in general inflamed from the previous operation. Secondary haemor- rhage, from the point at which the artery has been last tied, in general terminates the patient's sufieriugs on the fifth or sixth day. 2. Mortification may attack either the Umb or the aneurismal tumour. In the former case it proceeds from deficient circulation, and commencing at the toes spreads upwards to a variable extent; the toes alone may suffer, or the whole limb as far as above the tumour may perish. Mortification appears in the course of four or five days after the operation, and is indicated by the deficient temperature, and insensibility of the part, on which dark lines, succeeded by a black spot, frequently appear, fol- lowed by tiie formation of vesications, and other symptoms of gangrene. When the gangrene is partial the efforts of nature need not be interfered with, but when extensive, amputation is to be resorted to. In performing ampu-