218 ANATOMY. and common integuments ; below by the digastric muscle. The facial artery grooves it, along its posterior part, and sometimes appears to separate it into two lobes. Its structure is like that of the parotid. The excretory duct, named Wharton s, passes obliquely upwards and inwards, parallel with tlie gustatory and lingual nerves. After passing between the niylo-hyoideus and hyoglossus muscles, it runs between the sublingual gland and genio-hyoglossus, immediately under the mucous membrane, along the fraenum linguse, as far as a promi- nent papilla, just behind the inferior incisor teeth, where it opens by an exceedingly small orifice. The Whartonian duct has much thinner coats than the stenonian, its calibre is greater, and it is more dilatable, and when distended by fluid or calcareous matter, projects considerably into the cavity of the mouth. The suhlwgual gland of each side rests upon the sub- lingual fossa of the lower jaw, on each side of the sym- physis ; smaller than the other salivary glands. It is placed beneath the mucous membrane, lies upon the mylohyoid muscle, and rests against the lower jaw; in- ternal to it is the genio-hyoglossus, from^ which it is separated bv the gustatory nerve, Wharton s duct, and theranine vein; anteriorly, it reaches the border of its fellow gland, at its posterior edge it is embraced by the gustatory nerve, which supplies filaments to it. The excretory ducts {ducts of Rivimts) are seven or eight in number; they open along the ridge on the side ot the fr^num linguse. Some of them have been found to pass into the Whartonian duct. o^finr. All the salivary glands are so placed that, by the action of mastication, they should be exposed to pressure, which will force out the fluid at the time when it is most ^^%htpharynx is a musculo-membranous bag, somewhat of the shape of a funnel: it is broadest about its middle more constricted superiorly, but most so mfenorly, where it terminates in the oesophagus. . ^„ , i . It is bounded posterioriy by the ceiwical ^ertebr^, superioriy by the base of the skull; laterally, by the large Ss 0? L neck, and by muscles; Y^^^. posterior nares, soft palate, tongue, epiglottis, and larynx,