72 ANATOMY. the side of the flexion, for junction with the first phalanx ; anteriorly are two depressions, which correspond with the two sesamoid bones ; and laterally are rough surfaces for the attachment of ligaments ; the articulating surface has been erroneously described as triangular or wedge-shaped, in order to account for the difficulty experienced in re- ducing the dislocation of this articulation, termed Key's Dislocation of the Thumb. The second metacarpal bone is the longest, and articu- lates with five bones, viz., trapezium, trapezoides, os mag- num, second metacarpal bone, and first phalanx. The third metacarpal bone is next in size and length to the preceding ; it articulates with four bones, the os magnum, second and fourth metacarpal bones, and the first phalanx. The/oM?-iA metacarpal bone is shorter than the preceding. It articulates with five bones, the os magnum and unciforme, the second and fifth metacarpal bones, and first phalanx. The fifth metacarpal bone is smaller than the preceding. It articulates with three bones, the unciform, fourth meta- carpal bone, and first phalanx. The metacarpal bones belong to the class of long bones ; they are developed by two points of ossification, one tor the body, and one for the phalangeal extremity, with the exception of the first, in which a second pomt of ossifica- tion is formed for its carpal extremity. The metacarpa bones are supported by the carpal, as follows : the first bv one, the trapezium; the second by three, the trape- zium, trapezoides, and os magnum ; the third by one, the OS magnum ; the fourth by two, the os magnum and unci- form ; the fifth by one, the unciform. Muscles attached to the Metacarpal Bones : r Abductor indicis. To first metacarpal bone ... E-vtemor ossis metacarpi poUicis. L Opponens pollicis. four metacarpal bones of the . , . . • g„„ers Jnterossei extemt et tntemi. r Abductor indicis. second metacarpal bone . A Flexor carpi radialis. { Extensor carpi radtalis longior. j Adductor pollicis. third Extensor carpi radialis brevior. r Extensor carpi ulnaris. fifti, ; \ Flexor „ [Adduciorminimi diffttt.