DISEASES OF THE TESTIS. 587 nerves of the thigh. It may be relieved by the blue pill and hyoscyamus, and belladonna, but generally returns and continues for months and even years. This disease often requires castration. Sarcocele.—The term sarcocele has been applied to almost every disease of the testis, in ^vhich this gland becomes enlarged; hence much obscurity has ai*isen with regard to diseases of this gland in general; vre purpose confining the term to that enlargement of the testis which takes place in a syphilitic state of the constitution (although Mr. Hunter denied the existence of such a disease), and which may be therefore named venereal sarcocele. This is one of the latest of the secondary symptoms of the ve- nereal disease, not appearing in most cases for years after the primary sore. It is, in general, accompanied with other symptoms of a venereal taint in the constitution, such as pains in the bones and joints, a few irregular syphilitic patches or ulcers on the skin, and not unfre- quently a species of hectic fever, characterised by profuse night sweats, loss of rest and of appetite, wasting" of the body, and great debility. One or both testes may be en- larged at the same time. The gland usually attains a large size, somewhat oval in shape, and slightly flattened at the sides. The integuments are not discoloured, nor is there much pain. The swelling is heavy, but not so much so as in the scirrhus testis. This disease is best treated with mercury, applied externally in the form of ointment, and taken internally in the form of blue pill or calomel, night and morning. By a perseverance in this plan to sali- vation the disease rapidly disappears, and with it the con- stitutional symptoms. Scirrhus Testis.—This is a very rare disease. It ap- pears in the advanced periods of hfe, and presents the same characters as cancerous tumours in other parts of the body. See Cancer. Castration is the only remedy. This operation should be performed before the disease has extended itself to the spermatic cord or lumbar glands. FuTiffus hamatodes of the 7e5^?«.—This disease is more frequently met with than scirrhus. Its characters are the same as in other situations, and will be seen under the article Fungus Hsematodes. This disease is sometimes