LIGAMENTS OP THE SHOULDEE-JOINT. 77 THE SCAPDLO-HUMEKAL ARTICULATION, OR SHOULDER-JOINT. This articulation is formed by two bones, the scapula and humerus. The scapula presents for this purpose the glenoid cavity, which is superficial, but is considerably- deepened in the recent state by the cotyloid or glenoid ligament surrounding it, and by the cartilage, which is for this purpose thick at the circumference, thin in the centre. The part of the humerus which enters into this articulation is the head; this is around hemispherical convex eminence, much larger than the glenoid cavity. THE LIGAMENTS OF THE SHOULDER-JOINT. The ligaments are the capsular, the coraco-humeral or accessory, and the cotyloid ligament, lined by synovial membrane. The ca2)sidar ligament is attached superiorly around the anatomical neck of the scapula, beyond the cotyloid liga- ment ; from this it passes downwards, forwards, and out- wards, and is inserted inferiorly into the anatomical neck of the humerus descending below the tuberosities to which It IS attached ; it is much larger here than at the scapula, and hence is of a conical shape, the apex towards the scapula, the base at the humerus. This ligament is exceedingly thin anteriorly and posteriorly, but is strong towards its upper and inner part, where it is strengthened by the accessory or coraco-humeral ligament, and inferiorly towards the axilla ; externally it is closely attached to the several muscles surrounding the articulation ; it is per- forated by the long tendon of the biceps anteriorly, the sub-scapular tendon internally, and sometimes by the supra-spinatus tendon superiorly; its internal surface is lined by the synovial membrane. In order to allow of the great mobility of the articulation, it does not connect the bones closely together, but allows of their separation to the extent of at least an inch ; this occurs occasionally even in the living subject, as in paralysis of the deltoid muscle ; and, no doubt, favours dislocation. The coraco-humeral or accessory ligament is situated at the upper and inner part of the articulation ; it is attached superiorly to the outer edge and under surface of the coracoid process, directs itself downwards and outwards,