URINARY CALCULI AND LITHOTOMY. 719 The after treatment is extremely simple. The wound is left open, or only covered with some simple ointment, and in a dependent position, that the urine may flow freely through it; an anodyne is given immediately after the operation, diluent drinks administered, and any symptoms of inflammation combated by the antiphlogistic regimen. In the course of two or three days, the urine begins to flow by the urethra, and is soon altogether discharged by this canal; the external wound heals from the bottom by granulations. The following accidents may occur during the per- formance of the operation of lithotomy : ^'ound of the internal pudic artery. The vessel is in danger of being wounded, if the knife should be too much lateralised, or turned outwards in making the last incision. If wounded, the artery should be at once compressed against the inner surface of the tuber ischii with the fingers, and subsequently secured with a ligature. In some cases the dorsal artery of the penis arises as a distinct branch from the internal iliac artery, and runs along the lateral surface of the neck of the bladder to its destination. Under these circumtances, it is almost impossible to avoid it" in the last stage of the operation; and, as the source of the haemorrhage cannot be ascertained, it will prove fatal, if not restrained. The introduction into the wound of a piece of sponge, perforated by a female catheter, so as to admit of the escape of the urine, is the best means of arrest- ing the bleeding, as also any serious haemorrhage that may arise from other obscure sources. Wound of the rectum.—This intestine will be wounded, if the edge of the knife be directed too much inwards in making the incisions. Although an inconvenient, it is not a serious accident, as the wound may heal without any unpleasant consequences ; if not disposed to heal, the intestine may oe cut through, as in the operation for fistula in ano. Slipping of the knife or gorget from, the groove in the staff.—'Vim is one of the most serious accidents that can occur in the operation, as the instrument is thus pushed between the bladder and rectum; and the operator, ima- gining he has cut into the bladder, proceeds to extract the stone. Introducing the forceps for this purpose, he seizes the stone covered by the coats of the bladder, and in vaiu