695 SCROFULA. The most general and distinctive marks of its nature are the deposition of a peculiar matter in the different tissues resembling white crumbled cheese mixed with a thin yel- lowish fluid, and ulceration of a slow troublesome character which is much indisposed to a healing process. We shall mention in detail a series of diseases in which scrofula has a predominant or partial influence. Some diseases of the scalp of children assume a scrofulous ap- pearance, and porrigo in its various forms is more common in scrofulous persons than others, and receives much benefit from the use of those remedies which relieve scrofula elsewhere. The eye is subject to several modifications of scrofula which have been noticed under Diseases of the Eye. The eyelids are very prone to chronic disease of this kind, after an attack of smallpox; about the face also, we meet with scrofulous enlargement of the alae nasi and lips, which require no specific attention. In the neck, the lymphatic glands are very liable to the deposition of scrofulous matter, which leads to suppuration and to extensive ulceration. This is healed with much diflBculty, and generally leaves behind it extensive marks of its ravages in the form of corrugated unsightly cica- trices. Scrofulous individuals, if minutely examined at the meridian of life, will often exhibit such marks, although they are anxious to conceal them, as if the disease would cast a reflection upon them. When en- largement of these glands is first noticed, there is no redness and little pain, but enlarging by degrees they approach the surface, which becomes red and°inflamed • and by the assistance of ulcerative absorption the surface gives way, and purulent, with the peculiar scrofulous matter makes its escape: subsequently the same process ensues in other glands, and the ulceration extends over a large portion of the integuments, produces deep sores with ragged edges as if bitten, partially covered with a whitish matter somewhat like lymph, and presenting a few flabby feeble granulations. The treatment which we have found most successful in these cases has been the application of the cataplasma conii to the sore ; administer iodide of potassium in doses of from one to tliree grains three times a day, with two or three grains of the extract