DEEP M0SCLES OF THE XECK. 115 Akttxxo-epiglottideus. Or. From the arrtenoid cartilage, and aryteno-epiglottidean mem- brane. Ins. The side of the epiglottis. Use. To depress the epiglottis, and to compress the walls of the sacculi together, hence named by ^r. Hilton, compressor sac- culi hryngis. , DEEP MUSCLES ON ANTERIOR AND LATERAL PARTS OF THE NECK. Which lie close to the vertebra, and are exposed br remorai«^ the pharynx, larynx, and ceryical yessels and neryes. ° LosGus COLLI. Or. Bodies of three superior dorsal and four inferior ceryical yertebra, from the mteryertebral ligaments, the head of the first rib,^and the an- terior tubercles of the transyerse processes of the third, fourth, filth, and sixth ceryical yer- tebrse. Ills. Tore part of the first, second, and third ceryical yer- tebne. I'ie. To bend the neck to- wards one side, and rotate the atlas on the dentata: both will draw the neck forwards. Rectus capitis iXTicrs ma- jor. Or. Anterior tubercles of transyerse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cerrical vertebrae. Basilar process of the occipital bone. Cse To bend the neck and head for\yards. Rectus capitis anticus mi- nor. Or. Junction of the body with the transyerse process of the atlas. I/is. Basilar process of the occipital bone. Use. To bend the head for- wards. Rectus capitis lateralis Or. Transverse process of the atlas. Ins. Jugular process of the occipital bone. Use. To bend the head to the side. Scalenus anticus. Or. An- terior tubercles of transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical verte- brae. Ins. Upper surface of the first rib, near its cartilage. Use. To raise and' fix the first rib, and to bend the neck forwards and laterally. Scalenus iiEDiusy Or. Pos ■ terior tubercles of the transverse processes of four or five inferior cervical vertebrae. Upper edge of first nb, posterior to the former muscle. Use. To raise the first rib, and bend the neck laterally. Scalenus posticus. Or. Pos- terior tubercles of two or three inferior cervical vertebra?. Ins. Upper edse of the se- cond nb between its tubercle and angle. Use. To raise the second rib and incline the neck laterally, and a little backward