THE TARSUS. 39 an external, internal, and posterior, separated by three ridges, which are anteinor, external, and internal. The inferior or tarsal extremity of the fibula is large and more prominent than the superior; it forms a large irregular projection, of a triangular shape, termed the external malleolus. Its outer surface is rough, convex, and subcutaneous : the internal, also convex but smoother, presents siiperiorlij a triangular surface for connection with the tibia; inferiorly a smooth articulating surface, a little concave from before backwards, to articulate with the outer surface of the astragalus; and behind this, a rough surface into which the posterior fibulo-tarsal and pos- terior tibio-fibular or transverse ligament are implanted. Anteriorly the external malleolus is rough and projecting, and gives origin to ligaments connecting it to the tibia above, the tarsus beneath; posteriorly it is grooved obliquely downwards and outwards for the passage of the tendons of the peroneus longus and brevis muscles; the apex of the: external malleolus is turned downwards, and is placed rather posteriorly: the external lateral ligaments of the ankle-j6int are attached near, but not into it. The fibula articulates with two bones, the tibia and the astra- galus ; its supply of vessels, structure, &c. are similar to those of the femur and tibia; it has three points of ossi- fication, one for the shaft and one for each extremity. The chief nutritious foramen is seen on the posterior surface, about the middle of the bone. Muscles attached to the Fibula. To internal surface .... Extensor communis diffitornm. „ proprius pollicis. Peroneus tertius. posterior surface Solceus. Flexor longus pollicis. Tibialis posticus. external surface .... Peroneus longus. . » brevis Biceps flexor cruris. The Foot is divided into the tarsus, metatarsus, and phalanges. The Tarsus occupies the posterior half of the foot and 18 composed of seven bones ; the astragalus and os calcis behind; the navicular, three cuneifonn, {internal, middle, and external,) and the cuboid in front. The Tarsus may