DISEASES OF B0NE3. 625 strict examination should be made of the limb, as a spicula of bone, some foreign body, or a collection of matter, may be the cause of non-union, on the removal of "which the bones will unite. The most recent invention for promoting the union of bone in these cases, is that practised by Dieffenbach. He has recommended the introduction of an ivory peo' into each end of the bone at about half to one inch from each end of the bone, and connecting them together by wire so as to excite increased vascular action and thereby union. The pegs have been tried in London without the wire and ■with satisfactory results. DISEASES OP BONES. _ Phlegmonous i:>flammation, commencing in the bone Itself, IS of rare occurrence. More frequently the inflam- mation first attacks the periosteum, and spreads from thence to the osseous tissue. The symptoms are usually of a local character: they are a deep, heavy, though some- times acute pain in the bone, followed sooi'i by an enlarge- ment of tlie osseous structure, and thickening of the perios- teum. Ihe inflammation may either terminate in ulcera- tion of the bone (caries), or in the formation of an abscess in Its interior, but more frequently ends in necrosis Necrosis is complete death of the bone, attended with or followed by the formation of new bone. It is analogous to mor ,ficat.on in the soft parts. Necrosis usually^ffect. the shafts of the long bones, from their being composed of compact tissue, and less highly organised than the spongy bones. The tibia femur, lower jaw, clavicle, humerus! S ?' ^ IZ' ''"^ frequently affected. Although no age is wholly exempt from necro^7 It more frequently appears in youth before or abon; puberty, with the exception of the necrosis of the We jaw winch in general appears in adult or advanced 1^? Next to the long, the flat bones are most liable In n! and, last of all, the irregular hoZ T^tl^ frequently attacks the tilla. we si a "select Tc 'T e'T nature to illustrate the disease. s nVtb? 1 be caused either by direct violencerarby Wow "i "hj part, by exposure to cold or mnv „ ^ • f evCeot oauL T„e fire. ■.;;eZZ:TLTZl ^"1