ANATOMY. 170 Fallopius, where it forms a ganglionic enlargement, and unites with the great superficial petrosal nerve the small superficial petrosal and external superficial petrosal nerve from the sympathetic; it then passes downwards behind the tympanum, giving a small branch to the stapedius, and, according to some modern anatomists, gives off the chorda tympani nerve. It next emerges at the foramen stylo-mastoideum, and, before its ultimate division, gives off three smaU branches: 1. The posterior auricular to the occipital muscle, the retrahens aurem, and external meatus. 2. The stylo-hyoid to the stylo-hyoid and digastricus muscles. 3. The digastric branch to the posterior beUy of the digastric muscle. These three filaments all communicate with the neigh- bouring nerves. The portio dura then enters the parotid gland, and divides into two, three, or more branches, named temporo- facial, and cervico-facial, which, by communicating fila- ments, form the pes anserinus; from this, three sets of branches pass off: 1. The temporal branches pass up over the zygoma, ramifying on the head and ear, and communicating with the occipital and frontal 2. The malar branches communicating with the superior and inferior maxillary nerves, and supplying the muscles of the face. 3. Descending branches communicating with the inferior maxillary on the lips and chin, and with the cervical nerves in the neck, suppljmg the platysma and integuments. The filaments of the portio dura give the power of motion to the various muscles upon which they are dis- tributed. . _ The portio mollis arises from the anterior part or floor of the fourth ventricle; it enters the meatus auditorius internus, in company with the portio dura, separated from it only by a small artery given off from the basilar: at the bottom of the canal it divides into minute filaments, which form two fasciculi: the anterior go to the cochlea, the posterior to the vestibule and semicircular canals. The eighth pair consists of three nerves : _ 1st. The glosso-pharyngeus arises from the side of the medulla oblongata, in the groove between the corpus olivare and restiforme, and between the portio dura and nervus