MUSCLES OF THE FACE. 109 Use To compress the lacry- mal sac and caruneula, and to draw the puucta closer to the eye. It is also named Dr. Horner's muscle. • CORRUGATOK SuPEECLLn. Or. Internal angulai- process of os frontis. Ins. Middle of the eyebrow, its fibres blending with the oc- cipito frontalis and orbicularis palpebrarum. Use. To approximate the two eyebrows, and thus throw the foreliead into vertical wrinkles. Pteajubalis Nasi arises from the occipito-frontalis muscle, and is indeed part of it; it descends along the nasal bones to the com- pressor nasi muscle, mto wliich it is inserted; it is sometimes wanting. CoiLPEESsoR >-ASi. Or. Ca- nine fossa in the superior maxilla. Lis. Dorsum of the nose. Use. To compress the carti- lages of the nose, or to draw them laterally. Letaiok labu superioeis ALiQUE NASI. Or. The upper extremity of the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone. Ins. Ala nasi, the upper lip, and orbicularis oris muscle. Two other small muscles are described on each side of the nose, but are very indistinct, and sometimes requiring the aid of a lens. They are named di- lators of the ala of the nose, and may be thus described: Levator proprius ala nasi an- terior, alias Dilatator narium anterior, arises from the upper border of the alar cartilage, and IS inserted below into the skin at the margin of the nostril. Levator propriiis ala nasi pos- terior, also named Dilatator na- rium posterior, arises from the margin of the superior maxillary bone and the sesamoid cartUages, and is inserted into the integu- ment at the lower and back part of the ala of the nose. LeVATOE LaBII SUPERIOEIS PEOPEius. Or. Broad from the lower margin of the orbit above the infra-orbital foramen. Ins. Upper lip. Zygomatictjs minor. Or. Upper part of the malar bone. Lis. Upper lip, near the com- missure, sometimes wantbg. Use. To raise the upper lip, as in smiling and laughing. Ztgomaticus jiajor. Or. Lower part of the malar bone, near the zygomatic suture. Ins. The angle of the mouth. Use. To raise the angle of the mouth in the same cases as the former. Levatoe anguli oris. Or. Canine fossa below infra-orbital foramen, above the alveolus of first molar tooth. Lis. Tlie commissure of lips and the orbiculaiis oris. Depressor labu supeeioris ALSQUE NASI. Or. The myrti- form fossa, and alveoli of canine and incisor teeth, of superior maxiUa. Integuments of the upper hp and the fibro-cartilage of the septum and ala nasi. Depressor anguli oris. Or. External oblique line on the lower jaw, extending from the antenor edge of masseter to the mental foramen. It is also named triangularis oris.