DISEASES OF THE EYE. 483 fiammation be severe, the constitution participates, and general fever is the result. In this stage leeches should be apphed, immediately below the eye, the bowels opened by active purgative medicines, and, if necessary, blood should be taken to the extent of twelve or fourteen ounces from the arm or temporal arterv. As the disease advances, all^he symptoms become ag- gravated, the secretion from the eye becomes increased in quantity, and assumes a muco-puruleut or purulent cha- racter, which causes the agglutination of the lid, and flowing from the eye, excoriates the integuments of the cheeks. If this state of things be not removed by appro- priate treatment, the inflammation spreads rapidly to the deeper-seated structures of the eye, and disorganisation takes place, causmg a complete or partial loss of vision It properly treated, the inflammation of the coniunctiva gradually subsides, and the patient speedily recovers the use of the organ. Generally speaking some weakness of tlie eye remains for a considerable time. When the inflam mation has been violent, chemosis makes its appearance Ihis occurs m a few days after the commencement of the disease, and is caused by an effusion of serum from the vessels of the conjunctiva into the cellular tissue, which connects the membrane with the sclerotic coat. In this the conjunctiva is raised from the sclerotic coat bv the eflusion beneath it, which, terminating abruptly, at the edge of tiie cornea, gives to the latter a sunken appear- ance. Although the patient feels in general relieved bv the effusion active antiphlogistic remedies are still ne cessary Blisters will now be found useful, particulaX Jf apphed at some distance from the disease, thi / behmd the ear, at the back of the neck, o'r on the Acute conjunctivitis may terminate as follows, causino either a partial or complete loss of vision; by-- ^ J. 1 he format ton of pustules on the con?^—Ono many pustules may fonn on (he cornea in 1 e I^T^o " the inflammation is generally of a ^l^Ti^ Ihey are caused by an cllusioi, benmtl. d,. '•™'»<^'-?'^- covering the cornea, wl.iel, rL, . tl e nT. ™"J""''"»« for,n a ,n,.ll c„„ic.;i or ^e^S b r .f:, ftom ... ,raos,,arency and .hort'continaLt il fa,„e',!ti';