HYDROCELE. 591 likely of all the diseases of the testis to be mistaken for a hydrocele; but the irregularity in the feel of the tumour, its greater weight, and the absence of trans- parency, will point out the true nature of the affection. The fluid in hydrocele is serous, generally straw- coloured, sometimes dark, and is composed of water, albumen, and the usual salts of the blood. The treatment of hydrocele is divided into the palliative and radical. The palliative treatment consists in the re- moval of the fluid as often as it is collected, by means of tapping the hydrocele. The radical comprises, in addition, the exciting a degree of inflammation in the interior of the tunica vaginalis, whereby its cavity is obliterated, or a new membrane formed, so as to line its. internal surface, and which does not possess a secreting power. The palliative treatment is resorted to in cases where the hydrocele is accompanied with an enlarged testis, constituting the disease hydro-sarcocele; in old persons' particularly when the hydrocele is large, and in cases where the tunica vaginahs is much thickened. As a general rule, the palhative treatment should be adopted before the radical is resorted to, in order to allow of an opportunity of ascertaining the condition of the testis and selecting the most favorable state of the tumour as regards its size, for the radical treatment. When the pal- hafave treatment is decided on, the operation is performed as rollows :—■ Place the patient in the erect posture, with his back supported against a table or the wall; ascertain the situation of the testis grasp the tumour a little below the external ring with the left hand, so as to force the fluid to the lower part of the tunica va ginahs, and thus protect the testis. With a lancet make a snS nos.on through the skin of the scrotum, on the anterior niTof the tumour, a short distance above its lower fundus, aXn a t a^f where no vessels of magnitude are seen. Introd .ce the tron^J ZtZT ","V'''"""' ^"'S'"'^"''' ^^'''h^>--v trocar aK iiig the canula to remain, and the fluid will flow nff ti ! should be directed first backwards as f owL^^'i ?^trocar as soon as it hasentered the tu. ica Uji fa^Us Ltt ^^^^ turned upwards, so as to avoid woundmr i is g aSd fluid IS drawn ofi" the rnnnii ° g'and. \\ hen the ur«„d .1,1, £z p/^ ""'!"«