SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 193 called coronary plexuses; namely, right, or anterior, and left, or posterior. They follow the arteries, and send filaments into the substance of the heart. The thoracic ganglia, tvrelve, sometimes only eleven in number, lie upon the heads of the ribs, and are connected together by one or two small filaments; they then give off branches to unite with the intercostal nerves. The sujaerior five ganglia give off anterior filaments to the trachea, oesophagus, and aorta, and contribute to form the pulmo- nary cardiac, and thoracic plexuses. The anterior branches, from the sixth to the ninth, inclusive, unite to form the splanchnicus major; and similar branches from the tenth and eleventh ganglia form the splanchnicus minor. These nerves descend by the side of the vertebrae, pierce the crura of the diaphragm separately, and enter the abdomen. The splanchnicus major passes to the semilunar ganglion of each side, and the splanchnicus minor to the renal plexus. The semilunar ganglion of each side is situated close to the coeliac axis, around which the fibres interlace, and with filaments from the nervus vagus, plirenic, and splanchnicus minor, constitute the great solar plexus. Froni this, branches pass off to accompany the contiguous arteries, and are named so many plexuses. They are : Phrenic, to the crura, and broad part of the diaphrap-m runnin? with the arteries. * The coronary, or stomachic, accompanies the coronary artery to the stomach, and is distributed upon both its surfaces. The hepatic plexus, accompanying the vessels into the transverse fissures of the liver; some of its filaments pass to the pylorus, others along with the gastro-duodenal artery. This plexus unites with fila- ments from the nervus vagus. The splenic plexus, accompanying the splenic artery, and sending fi aments with the vasa brevia to the great end of the stomach, also filaments to the pancreas, navatd pancreatic plexus. The aortic plexus, a continuation, as it were, of the solar plexus upon the aorta, with branches from the luml)ar ganglia may be said to send oft- the .5«;.en-or and inferior mesenteric plexuses, to accompany the corresponding arteries. v-ui■■pau^ Tiie splanchnicus minor, with other filaments from the sympathetic, form the renal plexus, which send? numerous filaments into the kidney, with the arterial l)ranches: and gives off- infcnorly some filaments to accompany the spermatic artery, and which constitute the spermuiic plexus. ^ 9