ANATOMY. 184 the fascia lata, and is distributed to the glands and parts in front of the thigh. The crural nerve appears to be derived from the second, third, and fourth lumbar nerves. It is at first placed between the psoas and iliacus muscles, descends under the fascia iliaca, and then passes under the crural arch on the outside of the psoas muscle, which separates it from the femoral artery. In this course it gives twigs to the iliacus and psoas muscles. After passing Poupart's ligament it divides into several branches, superficial and deep. The superficial branches soon pierce the fascia lata, and extend as far as the front and inner side of the knee. The deep branches may be divided into— External, internal, and descending. The external branches pass in front of the iliacus and psoas, sup- plying filaments to the sartorius, rectus, two vasti, and crurseus muscles. The filament supplying the vastus internus sends a small twig to perforate the fibrous capsule of the knee-joint. An internal branch passes beneath the femoral vessels to supply the pectineus. The descending branches accompany the femoral artery; one, shorter, runs on its outer side, giving filaments to the sartorius and the vastus internus, and gives a small twig to the knee-joint. The longer branch runs upon or within the sheath of the artery, and passes under the fascia, which extends from the adductors to the vastus internus; it quits the artery at the opening of the great ad- ductor, and runs along the inside of the knee, and then accompanies the internal saphena vein, as far as the dorsum of the foot, where it terminates, by sending filaments to the inner side of the foot and great toe. This branch is named nei'vus sapkenus interims. The obturator nerve seems to arise from the third and fourth lumbar; it passes along the inner edge of the psoas, between the peritoneum and pelvic fascia to reach the obturator foramen, which it passes through, and then gives ofi" branches— to the external oMurator muscle ; a filament tp the hip-joint; a deep posterior branch to the adductor magnus; and from thence a filament passes down deep in the popliteal space, and perforates the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, to which it is distributed; an anterior branch to the gracilis, and long and short ad- ductors, and inside of the knee. The lumbosacral nerve is the last given ofi" from the lumbar nerves. It is formed from the anterior branch of