ANATOMY. 130 clianterica, and extending along three fourths of the bone, as far outwards as the linea aspera. Ins. Upper and outer edge of the patella, and the synovial membrane of the knee-joint. Use. To extend the leg, as- sisting the three former. StJBCETJR^TJS, or CAPSTriAKIS. Or. Inferior fourth of the ante- rior surface of the femur. Ins. Synovial membrane of the knee-joint. Use. To raise the synovial membrane. Gracilis. Or. Lower halt of the symphysis, and inner edge of the descending ramus of the OS pubis. . Ins. Superior part of the in- ternal surface of the tibia. Use. To adduct the thigh and leg, and bend the knee. Pectineus. Or. Linea ilio- pectinea and the horizontal ra- mus of the pubis. Ins. Rough ridge leadmg from the lesser trochanter to the linea aspera. Use. To adduct the thigh, rotate it outwards, and flex it, and strengthen the hip-joint. Tkicei-s adductob temokis consists of three portions: 1st. Adductok longus. Or. External surface of the pubis, between the spine and symphysis. Ins. Middle third of the linea aspera. . Use. To adduct the thigh, rotate it outwards, support the pelvis; the long and short por- tions can flex the thigh on the pelvis, the great portion may extend it. 2d. Adductok bketis. Or. Anterior inferior surface of the pubis, between the former and the thyroid foramen. Ins. Superior third of the internal root of linea aspera. 3d. Adductok WAGNrs. Or. Anterior surface of the descend- ing ramus of the pubis, ramus of the ischium, and the external border of its tuberosity. Ins. Eough ridge leading from the great trochanter to the liuea aspera, the linea aspera, and in- ternal condyle of the femur. MUSCLES OF THE HIP. Gluteus maximus. Or.Pos- Use. To extend the thigh terior fifth of crista ilii, the rotate it outwards, abduct it rough surface between it and and support the pelvis and trunk the superior semicii'cular ridge, on the lower extremity, the posterior ilio-sacral Hga- Gluteus medius. Or. Deep ments, the lumbar fascia, the surface of the fascia covering it, spines of the sacrum, the side of the three anterior fo™ of COCCYX, and the great sciatic crista ihi, all the surface of the Sent. ilium, between the crista and ^Ins. Rough ridge leading the superior semicu-cular ridge, from the great trochanter to as weU as the ridgc itselt. fnea aspera, and upper thii-d of Ins. Upper and outer part of E aspera! Hie gi-eat trochanter.