REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. 364 The deep layer consists of but three muscles, viz. Flexor digitorum profundua, Flexor longus pollicii!, Pronator radii quadratus. The origin and insertion of these muscles are given in a former part of this work- The tendons of the two flexors of the fingers and long flexor of the thumb, together with the median nerve and the flexor carpi radialis tendon, pass beneath the anterior annular Ugament of the wrist, and are invested at this part with a large synovial sheath, which ascends into the fore- arm, and descends towards the palm of the hand to some distance, terminating at each extremity in a cul-de-sac. This sac being constantly filled with synovial fluid, lubricates the tendons, and thus facilitates then- free motions. In injuries about the wrist, effusion of serum frequently takes place into this bursa, which, becoming distended, causes much de- formity, and is frequently mistaken for a dislocation of the radius or ulna, or both bones. Wounds of this bursa are followed by a severe erysipelatous inflammation of the forearm : the same is the result of inflammation in the palm of the hand, when the inflam- mation, not being subdued by appropriate treatment, ascends into the forearm. The flexor tendons are bound to the phalanges by a strong fibrous sheath, which, with the bone beneath, forms a canal for their transmission, lined by a synovial sac. The fibrous sheath is less distinct opposite the articulations, and is continuous anteriorly with the tendons of the deep flexors. PALMAR REGION, OR PALM OF THE HAND. In the preceding description, the vessels aud nerves and principal tendons in the palm of the hand have been men- tioned ; we shall not recapitulate them, but describe only the other parts which are most important in this region. On raising the integuments, a few muscular fibres are exposed on its inner and anterior part, and constitute the palmaris brevis muscle. Bv a little further dissection, the palmar aponeurosis or fascia will be brought into view. This is a dense layer of fibrous structure, which covers the vessels and nerves in the centre of this region, sending off, at the same time, other layers on either side to cover the muscles of the thumb aud little finger. This palmar fascia is tnangu ar in shape; its apex, posteriorly, is attached to the annular