327 VELUM PENDULUM PALATI. wvul(2, in addition to the palato-glossus and palato-pha- ryngeus. The glands in the velum are most numerous on its ante- rior surface; they lie immediately beneath the mucous membrane. The use of the velum is to prevent the food from passing, during the act of deglutition, upwards from the pharynx into the posterior nares. It is also of service in modulating the tones of the voice. The uvula is a conical projection pendent from the lower margin of the velum on the mesial line; it is com- posed of mucous membrane, inclosing a quantity of cel- lular tissue, some glands, and the fibres of the azygos uvulae, or levatores uvulae muscles. The uvula becomes occasionally elongated from effusion into its cellular tissue, the result of acute or chronic inflammation, and is a source of much annoyance from its touching, and thus irritating, the epiglottis. Should the effused fluid not become absorbed, a portion of the uvula may be removed with the scissors. Immediately beneath the velum is the isthmus faucium, leading into— THE CAVITY THE MOUTH. The oral cavity is best examined from behind ; irregular as to size and shape, it is bounded in front by the lips, supei-iorly by the hard palate, inferiorly by the tongue, and laterally by the cheeks. Posteriorly it communicates with the pharynx^, larynx, and posterior nares, by the isthmus faucium, an irregular opening transversely oval, bounded above by the soft palate, below by the root of the tongue and epiglottis, on each side by two crescentic folds of mucous membrane, named the arches of the palate, between which lies the tonsil or amygdala. The lips are formed by muscular fibres, glands, and cellular tissue (considered by some to be of an erectile nature), covered by mucous membrane. The glands in the lips are named labial glands; they lie beneath the mucous membrane, and are more abundant in the lower than in the upper lip. One or more of these glands is frequently afi"ectedwith cancer in the adult male subject. The cheeks are composed of skin externally, mucous membrane internally, between which are placed the buc- cinator muscles, and a quantity of adipose tissue. Each is