SURGERY. 464 The treatment of boils consists in the application of an emollient poultice, and the paying attention to the state of the stomach and bowels. If a boil be large and painful, an incision may be made through it with the point of a lancet; but, generally speaking, these tumours need not be interfered with. Boils differ from carbuncles in their being numerous and dispersed over the body and extre- mities, being conical in shape, and seldom larger than a pigeon's egg : tliere is but one slough of the cellular mem- brane which is discharged by one aperture ; and boils are generally of a sthenic character. Some persons are much annoyed by a succession of boils, and in such cases, protracted internal use of Uquor potassse, carbonate of soda, alternating with mineral acids, has been found beneficial. -.^ 7- ^ Carhuncular Inflammation of the Lip, or Mahgnant Pustule.—k very dangerous form of carbuncular inflam- mation attacking the face has been of late epidemic m London, and in several cases has been fatal. It appears to be independent of local causes, or special pursuits. Many cases have been admitted at St. Bartholomew's Hospital with variable results. The general symptoms are ^ thus described in a report of some cases in the ' Lancet: ihe principal phenomenon presented is an enormous swelhng of the upper lip, arising gradually from a pustule, which springs up at some part of the npper hp. The heat, pain, and redness do not keep pace with the oedema, which latter is the most striking symptom. This is genera y carried so far that the whole face becomes frightfully swollen, as is seen in the worst cases of erysipelas. Such distension and infiltration must necessarily be followed by sloughing of 'the cellular tissue; and this change is made evident by the aspect of the parts after the incisions which are generally made through the cedematous textures. The fever which accompanies these severe local symptoms is generally of the typhoid type, so much so that support is clearly indicated.—Fic?e 'Lancet,' vol. u, 18oA P- Z^- ON INJURIES 01' THE HEAD. Iniuries of the head are divided into those which affect, 1st the scalp; 2d, the bones of the skull; 3d, the contained organs; and 4th, those in which aU these parts are engaged.