17 THE ETBS. varying in length from above downwards, increasing from the first to the eighth, and then decreasing; they diminish in breadth, progressively from the first to the last, although not regularly so. They are divided into seven superior true, and five inferior false ribs, or, more properly, into sternal and asternal. The two lower ribs have no con- nection with the rest by cartilage, but lie loose between the abdominal muscles, and are hence termed the floating ribs. The ribs are expanded at their extremities, and are twisted at different parts in such a way as not to rest evenly on a horizontal plane. They consist of a head, neck, tubercle, body, and an anterior extremity. The Eead of a rib, situated at the vertebral extremity, presents an angular eminence, divided by a horizontal ridge into two articular surfaces (of which the superior is the smaller), for articulation with two dorsal vertebrae, the ridge itself being received into the interval between them, and here firmly connected by fibro- cartilage with the intervertebral substance. The Neck of the rib extends from the head to the tubercle ; it is round, of considerable length, and is directed downwards, backwards, and outwards : it gives attachment to the middle and inferior costo-transverse ligaments, and occupies, when in situ, the interval between the bodies, and the extremities of the transverse processes, of the vertebrae. The Tubercle is a rounded eminence, situated on the posterior surface of the rib, near its inferior edge; it is divided into an internal articular, and an external non- articular portion; the former smooth and convex, arti- culates with the summit of the transverse process of the vertebra beneath ; the latter is rougli, for the attachment of tlie posterior costo-transverse ligament. The Body of the rib commences at its tubercle, and terminates at the anterior extremity. Its outpr surface is convex, and is directed a httle upwards ; on it we per- ceive, as we pass outwards from the tubercle, a rough surface, of variable length in different ribs, iiicreasing from the first to the ninth, and then diminishing, for the insertion of the longissimus dorsi muscle; then the angle, forming a remarkable protuberance posteriorly, and pre-