451 INFLAMMATION. the lining of an abscess is, a pyogenic membrane. The formation and retention of pus in large quantities is generally, but not always, attended with a peculiar in- flammatory state of the constitution, named hectic fever. This is characterised by a frequent, weak pulse, flushings of the face, heat and dryness of the hands or tbe feet, profuse night sweats, or diarrhoea. It is also accompanied with exacerbations of fever, of an intermittent character. These exacerbations occur at mid-day and towards evening; the latter is the better marked; the attack is characterised by a great rapidity of the pulse and rigors, followed by a hot fit and sweating, which last for some hours. A question often asked is, what abscesses require to be opened early. Abscesses or collections of matter under- neath fasciae, amongst tendons, under the thick cuticle of the fingers, as in whitlow, abscess from extravasation of urine, in the axilla, or near joints, or under the muscles over important cavities, as the chest and abdomen, under the fascia of the neck, require to be early opened. Other abscesses may be left much to the natural efforts; but when opened, the incision should be made in the most de- pendent situation, and the walls should be afterwards gently supported by pressure. Ulceration.—The term ulceration is not confined to that process by which ulcers are formed on the external surface of the body, but comprises also the term ulcera- tive absorption; the removal of diff'erent parts of the body, as of the vertebrae, from the pressure of an aneurismal tumour; the separation of a mortified or dead part from the living, as in exfoliation of bone; and the progress of an abscess or collection of matter from the internal to the external surface of the body. The absorbents are said to be the chief agents in producing ulceration, their action being excited generally by pressure. The existence of matter is not necessary to the ulcerative process, as is seen in the removal of the vertebrae, from the pressure of an aneurismal tumour. This process tends generally to the surface; by this means an abscess, although formed deep, makes its way outwards, and finally bursts through the skin. The eff'usion of lymph preceding the ulcerative process, prevents the escape of the matter before it has arrived at the integuments. In this way, aneui-ismal