REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. 292 thyroid arteries, and the superior and inferior laryngeal nerves. Behind, it rests on the spinal column, with the intervention of the sympathetic nerve, the rectus capitis anticus major and longus colli muscles; and inferiorly, the inferior thyroid artery, and recurrent laryngeal nerve. THE COMMON CAROTID ARTERIES Arise, the right from the arteria innominata, opposite the right sterno-clavicular articulation; the left, from the arch of the aorta, between the origins of the arteria innominata and the left subclavian. From these different origins, these vessels ascend backwards and outwards into the neck, contained, with the par vagum and internal jugular vein, in the carotid sheath; and, having arrived opposite the OS hyoides or the upper edge of the thyroid cartilage, each divides into the external and internal carotid arteries. In the first part of their course these vessels differ in several particulars. From its peculiar origin, the left carotid lies inferiorly within the thorax, and is here covered by the sternum, the left vena innominata, and the remains of the thymus gland, and rests on the trachea, a little above the bifurcation of this tube; and, escaping to the left side of the trachea, it lies on the thoracic duct and oesophagus, whence, ascending into the neck,, it resembles the right carotid artery. The left carotid artery is longer than the right, lies deeper in the root of the neck, and is in general somewhat smaller. The course of the common carotid artery in the neck is divided by the omo-hyoid muscle into two stages, viz., an inferior or deep; a superior or superficial. In the interior or deep stage, the artery lies in the anterior inferior triangle of the neck, covered by the skin, platysma, tascia, steruo- mastoid, sterno-hyoid,and sterno-thyroid muscles, and the carotid sheath; t6 its inner side lie the trachea and left recurrent nerve; on the left side, the oesophagus; to its outer side, the par vagum and internal jugular vein ; and behind it, the posterior part of the sheath, behind which are the inferior thyroid artery, the recurrent and sympa- thetic nerves, the longus colli, and rectus capitis anticus maior muscles. There is some difference in the relation of the internal jugular vein to the common cai-otid artery, t this stage, on Uie right and left sides. On the r.ght