THE LEG. 397 ceding; all the articular arteries run very close to the knee-bones. These arteries are of much importance in re-establishing the circulation in the loM^er part of the limb, when the femo- ral artery has been tied for the cure of popliteal aneurism; they are, indeed, the only vessels of magnitude that are available for this purpose : hence, in all cases where the circulation in these is impeded, as occurs in large aneu- rismal tumours, the due supply of blood to the lower part of the limb is prevented, and mortification results. Besides the foregoing arteries, the popliteal sends off numerous branches to the surrounding muscles, more especially two, swales to the heads of the gastrocnemius. The popliteal artery may be tied in any part of its course by making an incision from three to four inches in length in the direction of the vessel, which shall cut through the integuments and fascia; the nerve being drawn out of the way, the popliteal vessels will he exposed by a little further dissection ; the artery being isolated, the ligature is to be passed round it and secured. If the operation is performed in the upper third of the popliteal space, the incision should be made along the outer border of the semimembranous muscle, which will lead directly to the artery. In the middle and lower thirds the incision should be made directly on the mesial line; in the latter operation the external saphena vein is endangered; the most convenient posture of the patient will be on the face. The operation of tying the popliteal arteiy is not to be recom- mended; the depth at which the artery lies, the contiguitv of the knee-joint, and the close connection between the artery and vein conspire to render it both a difficult and dangerous operation. The only cases which can possibly call for its performance are,— if wounded here,—in aneurism of the arteries of the leg 'or wounds of them from splinters of fractured bones; indeed, in the two latter cases we should prefer tying the femoral artery in its lower third. THE LEG. Raise the integuments from the anterior and posterior surfaces of the leg and dorsum of the foot, and tlie super- ficial fascia is exposed; ia this, two large superficial veins may he seen, the internal and external saphena veins. I he internal saphena vein, much the larger of the two commences by numerous small branches from the dorsum and inner aide of the foot: these unite in one trunk, which crosses the internal malleolus, sometimes behind it, as-