PALMAR REGION. 365 ligament and the tendon of the pahuaris lougus; from this it descends, expanding, and, after a short course, divides into four distinct portions, each of which sub- divides into two processes, which pass forwards and are inserted, one on each side, into the lateral ligaments of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations and the sheaths of the flexor tendons, leaving intervals for the passage of the tendons, nerves, and vessels, to the fingers. The fibres of the palmar aponeurosis are chiefly longitudinal, but towards its anterior part some transverse ones may be noticed, which bind the longitudinal fibres firmly together; other fibres sink deep from the fascia into the palm of the hand, and become attached to the metacarpal bones and interossei muscles. The palmar aponeurosis binds down the veins, nerves, and tendons of the palm of the hand, and protects them from injury. In a practical point of view, this fascia is of much importance. In cases of wounds of the arteries in the palm of the hand, the re- sistance of this fascia prevents the employment of compression from being as useful as it would otherwise be in restraining the haemorrhage; hence sm-geons are frequently obliged to tie one or both of the arteries of the forearm before the bleeding can be sufficiently controlled. When abscesses, too, form beneath the palmar fascia, as frequently occurs in cases of paronychia, wounds in dissection, &c., it is necessary to give the matter a free and early exit ; if this be neglected, the inflammation will spread upwards, beneath the annular ligament, into the forearm, and thus impbcating the tendons and their svnovial sheath, will give rise to much local and constitutional disturbance. -There need be little apprehension, in opening these abscesses, of wounding the palmar arteries, as the matter almost always lies immediatelv beneath the fascia, and will flow out as soon as this has been divided. Occasionally tlie matter points in the cleft between the fingers, owing to the less resistance of the fascia in these situations • in such cases, the introduction of the point of the lancet into the swelhng will give exit to the matter, and relieve the patient. Beneath the palmar aponeurosis the superficial arches of arteries and nerves cross the palm of the hand • the first formed chiefly by the ulnar artery, the nervous'ard chiefly by the median nerve. The arteries lie superficial 0 the nerves. On raising them, the muscles ^f the thumb are exposed on the outer side, the Ion- tendons and lumbncales m the centre; and beneath them Z deep arches of arter.es and nerves and the ii^ ossei muscles, and internally, the muscles of the little fing r