KEGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. 344 the sternum, and the cartilages of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs, crosses in front of the axillary cavity, then sinks behind the deltoid muscle to be inserted into the outer edge of the bicipital groove, where it crosses the axilla; the sternal portion of the muscle passes behind the clavicular. This muscle with the latissimus dorsi, by their spasmodic contraction, may cause dislocation of the humerus into the axilla, particularly when the arm is raised from the side. In fracture of the neck of the humerus it also serves to displace the fractured ends of the tones. For this reason, in the treatment of such an accident, the muscle should be made as relaxed as possible by approximating the arm to the side. When making an examination of a cancerous breast, to ascertain whether the disease has extended to the muscular fibres, the arm should be separated from the side, so as to make this muscle tense. If we adduct the arm the muscle will move freely on the surface of the chest, together with the adherent diseased mass, and thus a wrong diagnosis may be formed. Beneath the pectoralis major lies the pectoralis minor, extending from the third, fourth, and fifth ribs, to be inserted into the inner edge of the coracoid process. In fractures of the neck of the scapula it tends to separate the fractured extremities of the bone. It crosses the axillary artery, and thus produces a division of this vessel into three stages. Beneath and a little below the clavicle lies the subclavius muscle. This arises from the cartilage of the first rib, and is inserted into the under surface of the clavicle, as far as the interval between the conoid and trapezoid ligaments. In fractures of the clavicle this muscle tends to draw the outer portion downwards and inwards. On cutting across the pectoralis minor muscle, and removing some cellular tissue, the axillary artery, vein, and nerves are exposed. THE AXILLARY ABTERY commences at the lower margin of the first rib, from which it passes downwards, outwards, and backwards, across the axiUa and along the inner and upper part of the arm, until it arrives at the lower margin of the teres major and latissimus dorsi muscles, where it becomes brachial. In this course it forms a curve, the convexity of which is turned upwards and outwards. It is closely