538 SUUGEKY. the external abdominal ring, it follows that a hernia may be protruded directly forwards from the abdomen through this aperture, without traversing the inguinal canal; this will therefore form the direct inguinal hernia. Fortunately nature has so protected this opening pos- teriorly, that this species is comparatively rare. The parts that oppose its formation he behind the ring; they are the triangular ligament or Colles's fascia, the con- joined tendons, the edge of the rectus muscle, and the trausversahs fascia attached to the outer edge of this muscle and to the conjoined tendons. These barriers are not, however, in all cases suflacient. As a direct inguinal hernia makes its way forwards through the external ring into the scrotum, it pushes before it the peritoneum which forms the hernial sac; it next either bursts through, or carries with it, the traus- versahs fascia; and then, passing to the outer edge of the rectus muscle and the conjoined tendons, it escapes through the external ring, and is here covered by the intercolumnar fascia, the superficial fascia, and the in- tegument. It is evident that the hernia can receive no covering (or at least a very partial one) from the cremaster muscle, nor from the fascia propria of obUque inguinal hernia,' as it does not descend through the inguinal canal. Sir A Cooper states that it receives a covering from the trausversahs tendon and fascia. By the former we con- sider him to mean an expansion from the trausversahs fascia where it is attached to the conjoined tendons. The epigastric artery, too, Ues to its outer side; hence we divide the stricture in this form of herma upioards and inwards As the hernia emerges from the external ring, it lies internal and a ]iitl^ posterior to the spermatic cord. Direct thus differs essentially from oblique inguinal hernia in its coverings, and in its relations to the epigastric artery and spei'matic cord. When the hernia has been formed suddenly, we are enabled to distinguish the two forms of inguinal hernia, bv the direct course backwards, which the direct species takes, into the abdomen. This, it should be recollected, will not always avail us; as, in old cases of obhque in- euinal hernia, the two rings will be in close apposition; and thus a hernia, formed originaUy by oblique descent,