176 ANATOMT, ascends and inclines towards the submaxillary gland, supplying fila- ments to the digastric muscle and platysma myoides, and to the submaxillary ganglion, or plexus; thus communicating with the lingual and chorda tympani. 4. The descending filaments pass between the trapezius and sterno- mastoid muscle, and are distributed to the integuments about the clavicle, acromion, the omo-hyoid, and serratus magnus muscle. They may be named supra-clavicular, supra-acromial, and subclavicular. The deep branches of the cervical plexus are the fol- lowing : Some, to communicate with the nervus accessorius, and to supply the trapezius and levator anguli scapulie. Branches to unite with the descendens noni, forming an inverted arch, from which filaments, as before described, pass off. The phrenic, chiefly derived from the third and fourth, receives also a filament from the fifth cervical nerve. It descends in the neck, upon the anterior scalenus muscle; enters the chest, between the subclavian artery and vein, communicating here with the nervus vagus, or recurrent nerve, and inferior cervical ganglion; it then passes anterior to the root of the lungs, runs between the pleura and pericardium, which it grooves, and arrives at the diaphragm, to the muscular fibres of which it is principally distributed; on the right side, according to some anatomists, it sends filaments through the opening of the vena cava, to the surface of the liver; others penetrating the diaphragm, and reaching its under surface, accompany the branches of the phrenic artery, to reach the solar plexus. The left phrenic nerve is longer than the right, having to wind round the apex of the heart. The fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves, with the first dorsal, by their anterior branches, and filaments from the sympathetic, form the brachial plexus. The posterior branches of the four inferior cervical nerves are very small, and are distributed to the deep-seated muscles and integuments of the immediately surrounding parts. The nerves about to form the brachial plexus pass out from between the scaleni muscles, and then combine to form this plexus. The fifth and sixth form together a single trunk, as also the eighth cervical and first dorsal, whilst the seventh cervical runs some distance before joining the plexus. The plexus passes downwards and outwards beneath the clavicle, and over the first rib ; and in the axilla, oppo- site the coracoid process, divides into its terminal branches. Its branches consist of those distributed to parts above the arm, and those which go to the arm entirely; of the