438 PHYSIOLOGY. venous blood, by a process analogous to combustion, -which is so probable, that scarcely any other hypothesis ap- pears requisite. Sir B. Brodie considered that the nervous system was mainly concerned in the production of animal heat. Of Respiration.—The air is received into the lungs by the enlargement of the cavity of the chest. The powers which effect this enlargement, in common inspiration, are the diaphragm and intercostal muscles ; in forced inspira- tion, many other muscles are brought into play, such as the trapezius, rhomboidei, levator anguli scapulae, pectorahs major and minor, subclavius, scaleni, sei'rati postici, serratus magnus, and latissimus dorsi. The blood of the pulmonary artery being exposed to the influence of the air in the lungs, is converted from a dark colour into a florid red, by parting with carbonic acid and the absorption of oxygen. Com- bined with carbonic acid, a watery vapour is likewise evolved. When the blood has been properly acted upon, the inspiratory muscles relax, while the abdominal muscles, pressing the viscera upwards against the diaphragm, dimi- nish the cavity of the chest, and thus expel the air. In forced expiration several muscles assist; they are the triangularis sterni, serratus posticus inferior, levator ani, quadratus lumborum, latissimus and longissimus dorsi. OF SECBETION. The term secretion is applied to that process by which parts of the blood are separated in the various organs. The exact manner in which secretion is effected is unknown. The secretions may be dcvviditA. mio exhalatioiis, follicular secretions, and glandular secretions. A distinction is made by some between secretions and excretions in this way, viz., a secretion is something which is capable of causing changes in other parts before it leaves the body; an excretion is something thrown ofi" from the body as useless, and even injurious, and although retained some time produces no beneficial change in other fluids or solids. Of the Secretion and Excretion of the Tears.—The tears are secreted by the lacrymal gland, from whence they are conveyed by six or seven excretory canals to the upper and outer part of the eye, where they pass through the con-