615 TREATMENT OF FRACTUKES. by a partial dislocation of the lower extremity of the tibia in- wards, and of the foot outwards. This fracture may be caused by direct violence, or by violent strains of the leg, as in wrest- ling, leaping, &c. On examining the limb some swelling will be found caused by effusion of blood into the cellular tissue, the foot is everted, that is, the inner margin is turned downwards whilst the outward margin is raised, the internal malleolus projects more than in the natural state in consequence of being partially dislocated inwards, so that its outer part rests on the inner margin of the astra- galus. This deformity of the foot results from the obliquity of the upper surface of the astragalus, which sloping in- wards favours the descent of the tibia in this direction aided by the spasmodic contraction of the peroneous longus muscle, which elevates the outer whilst it de- presses the inner edge of the foot. Corresponding to the seat of fracture, a depression is in general observed, produced by the falling inwards of the fractured portion of the bone, the external malleolus being thrown outwards at the same time. On passing the fingers along the fibula the irregularity of the fracture is manifest. Crepitus is with difficulty distinguished in this fracture, from the lower portion being so firmly fixed by the ligaments of the ankle-joint. Extension and counter-extension having been made, so as to reduce the displacement of the tibia and place the fractured bones in apposition, the limb is to be laid on the outer side with the knee flexed, the foot at right angles with the leg, and the heel brought towards the opposite limb, the patient being placed on the side cor- responding to the injured limb. Bandages and splints are to be appUed, and the fracture treated as already laid down in discussing fractures generally. This was the plan of treatment recommended by Mr. Pott. Dupuytren has more recently advised the fracture to be treated by placing a sphnt on the inner side of the limb, extending from above the knee to a short distance below the ankle ■ this 18 to be attached by means of bandages applied one above the other below the knee-joint, a long cushion being inter- posed between the leg and the splint; the foot is now to be twisted inwards and made fast in this position to the ower extremi y of the splint. The object of this plan of treatment ,s, by putting the external lateral ligament on