223 LARYNX, TKACHEA, AND BRONCHI. Thyro-epiglottidean, really ligamentous; Glosso-epiglottidean, a fold of mucous membrane, named frasnum epiglottidis; Two aryteno-epiglottidean, also consisting of mucous mem- brane. The muscles connected with the larynx, and concerned in its motions, are, anteriorly, the sterno-thyroid, thyro- hyoid, and crico-thyroid; posteriorly, the crico-arytenoidei jtostici, and the arytenoidea ; and laterally muscular fibres, which have been named crico-arytenoidei laterales, and thyro-arytenoidei. In addition to these muscles, three more have been described by the minute anatomists, viz., the thyro-epiglot- tideus, the aryteno-epiglottideus, superior and inferior, on each side, The sterno-thijroid and the thyro-hyoid muscles have their origin and insertion clearly indicated by their name. Their action is simply upon the larynx as a whole, the former depressing, the latter assisting to raise it. The crico-thyroideus is a very small fan-shaped muscle, of which the point arises from the centre of the cricoid cartilage, and the expansion is inserted into the lower and inner portion of the side of the thyroid. The crico-arytenoideus posticus is a small square- shaped muscle on each side, arising from a depression on the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage, and passing upwards and outwards to be inserted into the base of the arytenoid. The arytenoideus is by some authors divided into three, VIZ., the arytenoidei, transversi, and obliqui. It is, how- ever, better to describe it as one muscle, of which the deepest fibres pass transversely from one arytenoid car- tilage to the other, whUst the more superficial pass ob- liquely from the top of one arytenoid cartilage to the base of the other, thus forming a St. Andrew's cross in appearance. The remaining muscles are all situated within the Jarynx. .ffW^f^'M'^'^lM''''^'"" P^''"' internal angle of the thyroid cartilage to the base of the arytenoid. snrT?iTtr''^''""f "'.-f P^^^^^^ tlie internal "t:utcI'rngT'' ''''''''' '''' '^'^ -Ttenoid