CEKEBKAL NEEVES. 165 They are composed of both grey and white matter, con- taining many ganglionic corpuscules, and may be looked upon as so many nervous centres. Tlie cerebro-spinal nerves, of which we are now about to speak, are generally divided into two sets, the cerebral and spinal, the former containing nine pairs, the latter thirty-one pairs of nerves. CEKEBRAL NERVES, 'The first pair, or the olfactory nerves, take their origin by three roots, the outer and inner one medullary, the central one cineritious. The first, which is longest, arises from the fissure of Sylvias ; the middle from the substantia perforata antica; the internal one, from the substance of the anterior lobe. They soon unite, forming a M'hite tri- angular cord, lodged in a groove at the base of the anterior lobe, about half an inch from the median fissure; and covered by the arachnoid, only on their under surface. Each cord is then expanded upon the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, to form the olfactory bulb, composed of white and grey matter, which gives out numerous medul- lary filaments, to pass through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. These filaments, which receive an invest- ment from the dura mater, are distributed upon the septum, roof of the nose, and the superior turbinated bones, by three series of filaments. The second pair, or optic nerves, arise from the corpus geniculatum externum and nates. They wind round the crura cerebri, and unite, forming the optic commissure in front of the pituitary fossa, and between the anterior chnoid processes; they then separate and diverge, pass through the foramen opticum, into the orbit, perforate the sclerotic coat, to the inner side of and below the axis of the eye, then pass through the choroid, and are lost or ter minate in the retina. In the commissure, some of the fibres of each nerve cross to the opposite side: those on the outside of each nerve seem to pass forwards on the same side, to their destination. A transverse section of the optic nerve in the orbit presents a dark central spot, n^^m.^ porus opticus, dependent upon the arteria centralis retinae, which enters tms nerve and runs along its centre.