270 ANATOMY. • backwards, and downwards across the psoas muscle, and external iliac vessels, sinks into the pelvis, passing over the ureter and umbilical artery, applies itself to the false lateral ligament of the bladder, by which it is conducted to the inferior fundus of this organ, whence it runs forwards and inwards along the inner side of the vesicula seminalis, and, at the base of the prostate gland, terminates, by joining, at an acute angle, the duct of the corresponding vesicula, to form the ductus ejaculatorius communis, which, running forwards and inwards through the substance of the prostate gland, opens on the anterior part of the verumontanum. The vas deferens is composed of two coats, an external fibrous, and an internal mucous: the fibrous coat is of great strength, and gives to it the feel of whipcord; its cavity is exceedingly small. The vas deferens is flattened and sacculated, where it is connected to the inferior fundus of the bladder; its fibrous coat does not penetrate the prostate gland. The vesiculce seminales, two in number, are attached to the inferior fundus of the bladder, where they lie, one on each side, parallel and external to the vas deferens; they are about two inches in length, convoluted, oblong, and pyriform in shape: the larger extremity is obtuse, and turned backwards and outwards ; their smaller extremity, directed forwards and inwards, terminates in a duct, which forms, with the vas deferens, the ductus ejacidatorius communis, as just described. Each vesicula, when un- ravelled, is found to consist of a single convoluted tube, with numerous short lateral pouches communicating with it: it is composed of an external fibrous or condensed cellular coat, and an internal mucous membrane. Their interior presents a sacculated appearance, not unlike that of the large intestines, the sacculi being smaller but more distinct. Their use is to contain the-semen, and probably to secrete also a peculiar fluid, to assist in the process of generation. They form, with the vasa deferentia, the fateral boundaries of the triangular space, through which the bladder is sometimes punctured from the rectum. The prostate gland surrounds the neck of the bladder and prostatic portion of the urethra, which passes through it nearer its upper than its lower surface, one third of the gland only being above the canal. This gland is somewhat heart-shaped, the base turned backwards, is notched in