SURGERY. 712 ON URINARY CALCULI AND LITHOTOMY. Urinary calculi are understood to be concretions formed and existing in the urinary passages; they have their origin in most cases in the kidneys, from which they pass down the ureters into the bladder, and remaining there acquire a very large size; some having attained a weight of from fourteen to sixteen ounces, and even more. Urinary calculi may remain in the kidneys, and are then properly named renal: they are accompanied in most cases with pain in the lumbar region, referred to the kidneys, some tenderness on pressure, increase of pain from violent exertion, a morbid state of the urine, which is ropy and turbid, and produces considerable deposit, according to the quality of the calculus; blood is often discharged, and there is considerable derangement of the general health. In some cases the symptoms are so obscure, that men of eminence and great practical know- ledge have overlooked them, and precribed medicines diametrically opposite to those they would have given, had they been aware of the existence of a calculus. When they are detected in the kidneys, surgical measures are not resorted to, but endeavours are made to reduce their size, or, at least, to prevent their enlargement by suitable medicines. Thus, if there be evidence that the calculus is of the uric-acid kind, liquor potassse, the car- bonate of potash, preparations of soda, and magnesia are employed; but a preference ought to be given to the salts of potash. If the concretion consists of the phosphates and carbonates of magnesia and lime, most benefit will accrue from the administration of acids, and most par- ticularly hydrochloric and nitric. The same remedies are indicated when deposits take place in the urine, inde- pendent of actual concretion. Not unfrequently renal calculi produce suppuration and ulceration, so as to open into the colon, through the integuments, or in the lumbar region. They may be, when large, cut down upon and removed. Renal calculi, escaping from the pelvis of the kidney and passing along the ureters, sometimes give rise to most distressing symptoms, such as acute lancinating pains in the course of the ureters, frequent desire to pass urine,