334 UEGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. In its third stage the subclavian artery lies in the posterior inferior triangle of the neck, bounded by the omo-hyoid muscle externally, the sterno-mastoid scalenus anticus muscles internally, and the clavicle inferiorly ; it is covered only by the integuments, platysma, and a quantity of cellular membrane, which contains several branches of the cervical and brachial plexus, the subclavian, external jugular, and other veins, and the transversales coUi and humeri arteries; it rests on the first rib, which separates it from the pleura; the brachial plexus lies above and posterior to it; the subclavian vein lies anterior and inferior to it. The subclavian arteries are improperly so called, as they are not beneath the clavicle in any part of their course, if we except a portion of the first stage of the left subclavian. OPEKATIONS ON THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. The subclavian artery maybe tied in its first stage, if wounded here; also for the cure of aneurism, if in its second or third stages, or in cases of haemorrhage resulting from the operation of tying the vessel in these stages; or as has been lately recommended for the cure of aneurism of the arteria innominata, on the principle first laid down by Brasdor, and more lately advocated by Mr. Wardrop. To tie the artery in its first stage on the right side, place the patient in the horizontal posture, with his head gently supported by pillows, and turned towards the opposite side. Make an incision, about three inches in length, along and a httle above the cla\icle, commencing at its sternal end, from the inner extremity of which carry another upwards along the external margin of the sterno- mastoid muscle, to the extent of about two inches and a half; in these incisions, the integuments, platysma, and fascia are divided; raise a triangular flap so as to expose the lower part of the sterno-mastoid muscle, behind which pass a director and cut through it; the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles are now exposed, with a few branches of the descendens noni nerve; they may be divided in like manner or drawn inwards. By a little farther dissection the right vena innominata is exposed, formed by the junction of the internal jugular and subclavian vems. Tear through some cellular substance and the artery will be brought into view, forming the base of the vascular triangle, as already described: draw the par vagura, recurrent, and sympa- thetic filaments to the inner (for if the par vagum be drawn externally the recurrent nerve is sure to be included in the ligature) side, depress the vena innominata towards the thorax, and pass tlie aneurism needle from below upwards, taking care to avoid the parts wliich lie behind the vessel. It is seldom that