596 SURGERY. tlie opening of the heemorrhoidal tumours with the point of the lancet: when hsemorrhoidal tumours are productive of much suffering and inconvenience their removal becomes necessary. This may be accomplished by excision or by the ligature. It is sufficient in general to remove one, the largest and most painful, of the cluster. If excision be preferred, the tumour is transfixed with a tenaculum, and at once cut away with, a knife or scissors. If the ligature be deemed preferable, it is applied round the neck of the tumour, which soon sloughs away. Where the neck of the tumour is badly marked, a double ligature becomes necessary; this is applied by transfixing the hsemorrhoid with a needle armed with a double ligature, one being tied on each side of the tumour. Excision is objected to by many, in consequence of the heemorrhage which so fre- quently follows its adoption. Should this ensue, the bleeding may take place into the rectum, which becomes filled with blood. The patient now conceives that he has a motion to pass, and, discharging the blood, frequently faints from exhaustion. When it can be practised, the bleeding vessel should be sought after, and secured with a ligature; if this cannot be accomplished, the appUca- lion of cold or astringent lotions may stop the discharge. When this does not succeed, plugging the rectum should be had recourse to. This is accomplished by first passing a large fold of softened bladder, lint, or hnen into the intes- tine, so as to form, when opened, a conical cavity, into which a sufficient quantity of lint is introduced to distend the bowel, and compress the bleeding vessel. Ligature is objectionable from its inducing symptoms of peritonitis. Whenever these appear, the ligature should be at once removed. There is much difference of opinion as to the best method of removing haemorrhoids: perhaps excision is best adapted to external, the hgature to internal piles. Hajmorrhoids are a frequent source of inflammation and abscess at the side of the rectum, which almost invariably degenerates into a fistula. In unhealthy subjects, they often induce an erysipelatous inflammation of the sur- rounding cellular tissue and integuments, terminating, if not properly treated, in extensive sloughiug and isolation of the lower part of the rectum. The causes which give