AXILLAEY AETERY. 347 artery; it immediately passes forwards above the superior edge of the pectoraHs minor, and divides into numerous branches, which pass to the supply of the surrouudino- muscles, and anastomose externally with the circumflex' superior profunda, and suprascapular arteries, internally and inferiorly with the mammary and intercostal arteries ; one branch, remarkable from its course, descends in the fissure between the pectoralis major and deltoid, in which the cephalic vein ascends; in general it lies behind the vein, at least at its upper part. The arteria thoracica suprema is small, and runs inwards along the upper margin of the pectoralis minor muscle to which and the pectoralis major it gives branches, anasto- mosmg with the mammary and intercostal arteries. The arteries glandulares are small branches which some- times arise by a common trunk (the thoracica alaris), and are distributed to the glands, cellular tissue, and muscular parietes of the axilla. They are generally little offsets from ttie other axillary branches. The thoracica longa vel mammaria externa is a laro-e and regular branch which runs forwards, along the inferior margin of the pectoralis minor, under cover of the -reat pectoral muscle, to the parietes of the chest, the pectoral serratus magnus, and intercostal muscles, the mammar^ gland &c. It supphes these parts and anastomoses with tbe other thoracic, intercostal, and subscapular arteries. In operating upon the axilla, or extirpating the mammary Hand the course of this vessel should be attended to, for, if wounded it pours out a large quantity of blood, as it becomes much increased in size in diseases attacking these parts. '""tasea The arteria subscapularis is generally the largest anrl most regular branch of the axillary, from the posterior and mner part of which it arises opposite the lower ed-e of the subscapularis muscle, concealed by some veins and branches of the brachial plexus of nerves irrun, wards and backwards along the axilTary border ot X" scapula, accompanied by the subscapular nerve and vein and after a short course divides into two branches antIS and posterior. The anterior branch smallp. . in the direction of the parent tr^nS^iZf rivT inferior ang e of the scapula, where it divides ii lo seveml branches, which supply the teres major, latissimurdor^I