SURGERY. 574 has not been relieved in sufficient time, the urethra gives way behind the stricture, (being weakened here from its being immoderately distended by the impulse of the urine against the stricture, and also by this fluid acting on the canal itself at this point,) where the urine becomes extra- vasated into the perineum, scrotum, penis, and upon the abdominal parietes. The rupture of the urethra is di- rectly caused by the patient making an effort to pass urine; he feels something give way, and soon begins to experience relief from the previous symptoms of reten- tion ; to his surprise, however, no urine flows externally, At first the urine is confined to the perineum, but soon is forced upwards towards the scrotum, penis, &c., being prevented from passing in any other direction, by the attachment of the perineal fascia. If examined at an early period, there is but httle external appearance pre- sent, there only being a more than usual fulness and hardness of the perineum; hence the case has been fre- quently overlooked. As the extravasation becomes more extensive, the scrotum and penis swell enormously the integument is discoloured, first assuming a blush on the surface, then becoming of a dark red or purplish colour, indicative of approaching gangrene. So soon as the surgeon has ascertained that extravasation of urine has taken place, incisions are at once to be made into the several parts where the urine is lodged. The first incision is made in perineo, down to the urethra, in order not only to give exit to the urine already extravasated, but also to afford a free passage to that from the bladder, and thus prevent further extravasation, and to allow of the escape of any sloughs that may form. Other incisions are to be made in the scrotum, penis, and in the abdommal parietes ; in fact, wherever the urine has extended itself; for, if this fluid be allowed to remain, it will cause extensive destruc- tion of the ceUular tissue and integuments with which it may have come into contact. As soon as all the sloughs have separated, and the wounds begin to heal, attempts should be made to restore the original canal. Most fre- quently the patients die from the irritation induced by the separation of the sloughs, before any attempt at a perma- nent cure can be made. Catarrhus vesiccE.—is a chronic inflammation ot