578 SURGERY. be found most beneficial. Where the sloughing process is spreading rapidly, nitric acid, or chloride of antimony, may be applied. Chancres are sometimes treated by the application of caustic, which destroys the sore, a slough soon separates upon which the ulcer heals up. Caustic will be found beneficial only in the first stages of chancre, and should not be used in an irritable state of the parts. Phymosis is an elongated condition of the prepuce, which hangs over and conceals the glans. It is caused by inflammation, which terminates in an effusion of serum or lymph, or both, into the cellular tissue of the prepuce. Where the inflammation is violent, the an- tiphlogistic regimen is to be strictly observed, both locally and constitutionally; at the same time tepid water, or weak astringent lotions, should be injected under the prepuce frequently during the day. When sloughing attacks the prepuce, the fermenting poultice should be applied, and five grains of ammonia, with ten of musk, given two or three times a day. The nitrous acid lotion will also be found useful. Wlien the inflammation of phymosis subsides, the prepuce fre- quently remains enlarged; here it will be necessary to divide the prepuce with the bistoury, or it may be alto- gether removed. t Paraphymosis is the reverse of phymosis. In this, the constricted prepuce is retracted behind the corona glandis, and cannot be drawn forwards. The edge of the prepuce, constricting the corona glandis, will, if allowed to remain, cause a sloughing of the glans penis, or wiU hberate itselt by acting on the constricted part. The strangulation is reduced by drawing the prepuce forcibly forwards: for this purpose, first compress the swollen glans, so as to empty its vessels; when this has been done, the skin ot the penis is drawn forwards, the glans being pressed back at the same time. If this plan does not succeed, the stric- ture should be divided with the sharp-pointed bistoury. Syphilitic iJxSo.—When a chancre has existed for some time, the absorbents take up the poison, and conveying it to the upper row of the inguinal glands, produce an inflam- mation and swelling of these, forming a bubo: one gland only is usually enlarsred from the svphilitic matter, but