57 METATAIISAL ARTICULATIONS. The calcaneo-cudoid ligament or ligamentum longum is the longest and most powerful of the ligaments of the foot; it arises from the posterior and inferior part of the OS calcis, passes forwards, and is inserted first into the tubercle on the under surface of the cuboid bone, then assists in forming the tendinous sheath for the peroneus longus tendon, and finally is implanted into the base of the metatarsal bones, spreading out and mixing its fibres with the ligaments which connect these together; it lies deep in the sole of the foot. Between the bones will be met with, occasionally, inter- osseous ligaments of a strong fibrous nature: the most remarkable of these are, one which is lodged in the deep groove in the under surface of the astragalus, connecting it to the OS calcis, and another between the navicular and cuboid bones. The various articulations of the tarsus are lined by a synovial membrane. The astragaleo-navicular is the most moveable articu- lation in the foot, as may be inferred from the nature of th6 articular surfaces of the bones : it enjoys almost every motion, though in a slight degree, and is lined by a distinct synovial sac; it is through it, that Chopart's amputation of the foot is performed. THE METATARSAL ARTICULATIONS. The metatarsal and phalangeal articulations are of a very simple character; in addition to the tendinous ex- pansions covering them, they are strengthened by lateral ligaments, and are hned by a synovial membrane. Their chief motions are flexion and extension. The structure of the foot is such as is best adapted for Us intended use. It supports the weight of the whole body, and at the same time enjoys much motion and some elasticity. It presents two arches; one transverse smaller ; the other, larger, is directed from behind for- wards Of the latter, the points of support are posteri- orly the tuberosity of the os calcis; anteriorly, the meta- tarso-phalangeal articulations : this arch is most evident on the inner side of the foot. lu addition to the strength thus obtained, the arched state is also useful in giving lodgment to the principal vessels, nerves, &c., whid, run along the under part. Mr. Aberncthy compared the foot 3ยง