5 ] 4 SUK.GEKY. the other is called direct, from its protruding directly for- wards through the external abdominal ring. Femoral hernia appears in the upper, inner, and ante- rior part of the thigh, where it descends beneath Poupart s ligament, on the inner side of the femoral vessels. Umbilical hernia protrudes through the umbilicus, or close to it, taking the course of the umbilical cord. The term ventral hernia indicates the protrusion ot one or more of the viscera through some other region ot the abdomen than those specifically mentioned ; the situations where this species of hernia most frequently occurs are ttie Imea alba and the linese semilunares. The other ot the disease are of minor importance; they are sufliciently indicated for the present, by their names. Another division of hernia, and one which is of essential importance in practice, has arisen from the different con- ditions in which the tumour may happen to be; ttius it may be either reducible or irreducible. Reducible hernia is that species which can be retui-nea into the abdomen. . . ji^ Irreducible hernia may be either simply irreducible, incarcerated, or strangulated, , Simply irreducible hernia is that species which, trom adhesions or other causes, cannot be returned i"to the abdomen, yet is at the same time unattended by any dan- ^'Tu hernia a certain degree of constriction exists on either the intestines or omentum, which inter- feres partially with the functions of the viscera, but not so as to bring the life of the patient into immediate danger. It is ordinarily relieved by a free action of the ^''7^angulated hernia is one of the most foi-midable dis- eases the surgeon has to contend against; in it, a stricture exists, which! pressing on the Pi-«tr«ded viscera, and ob- structing both the supply of arterial and the return of venous blood, thus leading to gangrene, produces a tram of violent symptoms, which if not speedily relieved xmU terminate fatally. „ , , • i ♦„„ini.i- From the nature of the contents of the hernial tumoui, another division has been made. When the tumour is wholly composed of intestine, it is named enterocelc; ot