66 ANATOMY. ratus muscle ; convex and megu^arposteriorly, and marked with three grooves, an external, middle, and interiial: ot these, the middle is the deepest and narrowest, is du-ected downwards and outwards, and lodges the extensor secundi internodii pollicis tendon. The internal is wider, and gives lodgment to the tendons of the extensor commums and indicator muscles. The external is the widest, but shal- lowest of the three, is sometimes duaded into two, and eives passage to the tendons of the extensor carpi radialis longus and brevis muscles ; on its external surface it pre- sents a triangular rough surface, for the insertion ot the supinator longus tendon, and terminates mferioriy in tne styloid process, to which is attached the external lateral ligament of the wrist joint: this is sometimes grooved posteriorly for the passage of the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and primi intevnodn. Internally, is a smooth articulating surface, concave, which receives the outer edge of the ulna. Inferiorly, the radius pre- sents a concave articular surface, somewhat triangular the base internally divided into two surfaces an external and an internal, by a ridge running from before back- wards; of these the external surface is large and trian- gular, and related to the scaphoid bone ; the eternal is Quadrilateral, and articulates with the os lunare. The ridge is received between these bones ; into its inner edge is implanted the triangidar cartilage of the ^"st-joint; the anterior and posterior edges of these «»f attachment to the anterior and posterior carpal hgaments The radius belongs to the class of long ^^o^^es ; it s developed from three points of ossification-one tor t e body, and one for each extremity; it articulates ^itl foui bones, the humerus, the ulna, the scaphoid, and lunar bones. Muscles attached to the Radius : To tubercle Biceps. „„i,.™.v r Flexor dtgitorum subltmts. J „ longus pollicis. anterior surface . . . .< Snpi)iato)- hrevis. [^Proniitor quad7-alus. outer border Pronator teres. iipir styloid iirocess . • . Supinator longtui. near siyioin i)iul E^vtensor os.iis metacarpi polhcs. posterior surface . . . . -j primi internodii „