TJKINARY CALCULI AND LITHOTOMY. 713 which is scanty and often bloody, pain and retraction of the testicle, and pain on the inside of the thighs. There is vomiting, and if inflammation be caused by the stone, a very quick state of the circulation. A stone descending along the ureter into the bladder may be mistaken for peritonitis: it is distinguished by the generally undisturbed state of the circulation and the absence of tenderness on pressure. The remedies for this are bloodletting from the arm, the warm bath, oleaginous purgatives, large doses of opium, and opiate enemata. The calculus having passed into the bladder is then named a vesical calculus. These concretions, however, are formed in the bladder primarily in many instances, and owe their origin to several circumstances. If the urine be in a diseased state, and some of its proximate principles be rendered insoluble, they will be likely to remain im- bedded between the rugae of the bladder, and will serve as a nucleus for additional deposit. The nucleus some- times appears to be merely some thickened mucus, or a small clot of blood. Almost any foreign body is found to be soon incrusted with solid matter, which has been illustrated by pieces of metal, pipe, or bougies which have been allowed to escape into the bladder. The presence of such substances in itself produces a diseased condition of this cavity, as well as of the urine, and thus acts as a powerfully exciting cause of deposition. Urinary calculi present several varieties, of which, about six are the most common; some are exceedingly rare, and are scarcely noticed or admitted by many authors. The best known are the following: Calculi. 1. Urate of ammonia, (very rare) Occurs in children. External Character. Colour, clay-like. Surface, smooth,some- times tuberculated. Structure, concentric lamellfc. Fracture, earthy. Chemical Qualities. Before the blowpipe decrepitates strong- ly; treated with li- quor potassa; it e- volves ammouia; it is also soluble in solution of carbo- nate of potash or soda, but not so the uric acid calculus.