THE PHARYNX. 323 This cellular tissue is sometimes the seat of collections of pus, either from phlegmonous or erysipelatous inflammation, but still more frequently from a carious state of the bodies of the cervical vertebrffi. In such cases, the matter proceeds forwards, so as to form a convex swelhng at the back of the pharynx, distinguishable on looking into the cavity of the mouth, and at once recognized by a feeling of fluctuation. When the matter accumulates in large quantities, it presses so far forwards as to impede the acts of deglutition and respiration. When such is the case the pus should be discharged by the trocar and canula. These instruments having been passed through the mouth into the swelling, the trocar is to be withdrawn, so as to allow of the escape of the fluid along the canula. If a less cautious proceeding be adopted the matter may flow into the larynx, and so cause the suffocation of the patient. The looseness of the reticular cellular tissue, at the back of the pharynx, allows of the formation of those cul-de-sacs, sometimes developed in it, and as described by Ur. Baillie. Anteriorly the pharynx is related from above downwards to the posterior nares and Eustachian tubes, the velum palati, the isthmus faucium, the root of the tongue, the glottis, and the back of the larynx. On each side of the pharynx are the common carotid arteries and their branches, the internal and external carotids, together with the lingual, pharyngeal, and superior thyroid branches of the former. Of these the internal carotid lies in closest con- tact, especially towards its upper part, and is hence, as well as from its great size, one of the most important relations of this cavity. On each side of the pharynx several nerves also are to be noticed: these are the par vagum, which descends in the neck between the carotid artery and internal jugular vein; the glosso-pharyngeal, which winds round the stylo-pha- ryngeus muscle, giving filaments to the pharyngeal plexus; the lingual nerve, and the gustatory branch of the fifth' which winds beneath the side of the tongue, under the mucous membrane of the mouth, to be lost in the papilla of the tongue. The pharynx is attached superiorly by means of the numerous connections of its superior constrictor, and of a dense fascia or aponeurosis, better marked on the mesial line than on either side, to the basilar process of the occi- pital bone, to the petrous bone, and the hamular process of the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone; descend- ing from this, the fascia covers the muscular fibres of the