711 h.^:mobrhage. firmly. Both extremities of the vessel should be secured, as otherwise the anastomosing branches will convey the blood into the lower end of the artery and the haemorrhage will return. (Vide Aneurism, for effects of the ligament on the artery and the subsequent process by which the haemorrhage is permanently restrained.) It frequently happens, even in wounds of very large arteries, that nature alone is sufficient to stop the haemor- rhage, and particularly when the wound has been of a lacerated character; thus, the arm has been torn from the trunk with but little bleeding. The means then that nature adopts to restrain haemorrhage are as follows: immediately on the artery being wounded, the blood escapes from the vessel, and becomes entangled in the surrounding cellular tissue, and thus forms an external coagulum variable as to size and shape; at the same time the artery, if cut across, contracts, and retracts within its cellular coat, which also becomes filled with blood. If the haemorrhage be profuse, the patient faints, by which the action of the heart and arteries becomes lessened, thus affording time for the more firm contraction of the vessel, and the greater consolidation of the external coagulum. A second coagulum soon forms in the interior of the artery, which is of a conical shape, the apex towards the heart and extends as far as the next anastomosing branch. After some time lymph is' poured out from the edges of the wound, the coagula are absorbed, and the artery contracting to the nearest anastomosing branch, becomes obliterated and degenerates into a ligamentous cord. Partial wounds of an artery are in general more dangerous than complete division, as the vessel is pre- vented from contracting and retracting. A puncture or longitudinal incision is less likely to be fatal than an obhque or transverse one. Haemorrhage from veins is easily restrained by making pressure on the vein bevond the wound. The ligature should never be resorted to in order to restrain venous haemorrhage, except when other means are found not to succeed, as these vessels are extremely prone to inflammation of their lining membrane a disease which is frequently fatal. mem Diane,