NERVES OF THE ARM. 1/7 latter there are six, namely, the external and internal cutaneous, the circumflex, ulnar, median, and musculo- spiral, or radial: of these, three only reach the fingers, namely, the ulnar, median, and musculo-spiral. The first series from the plexus includes the suprascapular, sub- scapular, and thoracic nerves. The suprascapular nerve, given off from the plexus, high up, passes outwards and backwards towards the superior margin of the scapula, accompanying the artery of the same name. It runs through the supra-scapular notch, where it gives off a branch to the supra-spinatus muscle, and a twig to the shoulder-joint, and passing beneath the acromion process, is distributed to the infra-spinatus and teres minor muscles. The subscapular branches are generally three; they run down in the course of the subscapular artery, supplying filaments to the sub- scapularis muscle, teres major, and latissimus dorsi. The thoracic nerves are three or four in number; two of these run down m front of the axillary vessels, to reach the pectoralis major and minor, upon which they are distributed ; tbe other, named posterior thoracic, descends behind the axiUary vessels to the inside of the axilla, distributing filaments to the serratus magnus muscle. It is the posterior inferior respiratory nerve of Sur C. Bell, NERVES OF THE ARM, The internal cutaneous nerve is the smallest of the six brachial branches of the plexus before mentioned- it descends along the inside of the arm, under the fascia, and divides near the elbow, into tviro branches, which perforate the fascia, and then run quite superficially. Before the division, it gives off filaments which perforate the fascia and are distributed to the integuments covering the triceps and biceps. The terminal branches are the following: The anterior branch passes over the median basilic vein and descends as far as the wrist: in its course giving filaments to the integumen s; some to communicate with the external cutaneous and some to join with the other branch of the same nerve The internal branch indines quite to the inner side and back of the fore-arm, and runs down to the wrist; in its course it gives filaments to the integuments, some to unite with the other branch and te minating filaments to the inner border of the hand. Some anatomists now describe a seventli nerve as arising from the plexus and smaller than the others, under thf name ot the small cutaneous- nerve, or nerve of Wrisbera which was formerly described as derived from the secoml and third mtercostal nerves. Assuming that it comes W 8ยง