390 EEGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. the point, where the hgature was applied, and thus the operation was rendered of no avail. In the preceding description we have not spoken of the sartorius muscle, as we consider it can only serve as a guide, when it is our object to tie the artery at the lower part of Scarpa's triangle, where the sartorius approaches the femoral artery. Mr. Hunter first tied the femoral artery in the tendinous canal, formed between the triceps and the vastus internus muscles. This operation has been of late almost aban- doned, being liable to the following objections: the artery lies much deeper here than in Scarpa's triangle; it is also too near the diseased portion of the artery; the femoral artery and vein are in close contact, and the ten- dinous structure of the surrounding parts is unfavorable to the formation of granulations, and consequently to the healing of the wound formed by the operation. OPEEATION IN HUNTEU's CANAL. Place the limb in the semiflexed position, and resting on its outer side, make an incision about four inches in length along the middle third of the thigh, and over the course of the femoral artery. Some caution is necessary in making this incision, as the saphena vein lies but a short distance internal to this point. The integuments, superficial fascia, and fascia lata, having been cut through, the anterior margin of the sartorius will be exposed; this muscle should be drawn to the inner side, and the ten- dinous covering of Hunter's canal will be brought into view : this is to be cautiously cut through, when the femo- ral vessels aud the saphenous nerve will present them- selves ; the nerve will be found in front of the artery and the vein behind it. The artery and vein are here in close contact, and can with difficulty be separated; this having been accomplished, the aueurismal needle is to be passed round the artery, and the ligature secured. This operation is much more difficult than that of tying the femoral artery in Scarpa's triangle. If the operator be not cautious he may mistake the vastus internus for the sartorius, and so proceed to separate the fibres of the former, until the appearance of the bone (as has occurred) informs him of his error. This mistake may be avoided bv paying attention to the course of the fibres of the