SURGERY. 588 confounded with hydrocele. Castration should be per- formed as soon as the nature of the disease has been ascer- tained, provided that the cord or lumbar glands have not become affected, or the general health of the patient does not indicate the disease to be constitutional. Unfortunately in almost all cases the operation is useless, for the disease soon manifests itself in other parts and soon carries off the patient. Sclerocele.—Mr. Ramsden described a peculiar enlarge- ment of the testis under the name of sclerocele, which he conceived to be caused by an irritable state of the urethra, and which was only removed by the doing away with the inflamed state of the canal, by the use of bougies. The disease is not now acknowledged, although in many cases, the state of the urethra will be found to have much influ- ence on the testis. Hydro-sarcocele.—This is an effusion of serum into the tunica vaginalis, in combination with an enlarged testis. As the presence of the fluid often depends on the disease of the gland, when this is removed the other disappears. Should this not take place, the case may be treated as a simple hydrocele. In some cases the evacuation of the fluid at first becomes necessary, in order to make an examination of the state of the testis. Castration is performed for the removal of malignant diseases of the testis in cases of hydatids and irritable testis. The operation is performed as follows:— Grasp the testicle in the left hand, begin the incision at the upper part of the external abdominal ring, and extend it to the lower extremity of the scrotum, so that no bag may be formed for the lodgment of matter. Lay bare the spermatic cord at the ring, and tie the spermatic artery and artery of the vas deferens. Divide the spermatic cord, and dissect out the testicle from be- hind. The spermatic cord should not be divided until the arteries are tied, or the cord secured, so as to prevent its being retracted by the action of the cremaster muscle into the inguinal canal. Should this accident occur, it will be necessary to slit up the cord, in order to come at the bleeding vessels. Tie anv vessels that mav bleed in the scrotum, and bring the edges of the wound together. When tl)e scrotum has been much dis- tended by the diseased testis, a portion of the integuments may be removed, by making two elliptical incisions, which will meet above and below. Varicocele, Spermatocele, Cirsocele, — These several