379 INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. or Wilson's muscles, and the compressor venae dorsalis penis. They are very delicate and pale, and generally so imperfectly developed that some anatomists doubt the propriety of admitting them as distinct muscles. Mr. Guthrie's muscle on each side is triangular in shape; it arises pointed from the ramus of the ischium, from which the fibres, spread out in a fan-lOce manner, surround and embrace the membranous portion of the urethra and Cowper's glands and meet in the mesial line of the tendinous raphe, which extends from the prostate to the bulb of the urethra; some of the fibres appear to pass up perpendicularly towards the symphysis pubis. Wilsons muscle, considered by many to be merely the anterior fibres of the levator ani, appears to arise from the inferior edge of the symphysis pubis, and is lost in the fibres of Guthrie's muscle, or to pass down on each side of the membranous portion of the urethra and unite beneath it, so as to support the urethra as in a sling. The action of these muscles (if admitted) is obvious from their situation. The compressor venae dorsalis penis, or Houston's muscle, on each side is about an inch in length ; it arises from the ramus of the os pubis above the erector penis, ascends forward and inward, and unites with the opposite muscle by a tendon over the dorsal vein in the mesial line. The action of these muscles consists in compressing the vein, and preventing the return of blood from the penis during erection. THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES are connected with the pelvis or lower part of the trunk by means of several muscles and the ligaments of the hip- joint. Each extremity is divided into the thigh, leg, and foot; in these, several regions of much practical import- ance present themselves, and will be considered as we proceed; these are, the/mo?-«/, the gluteal, the popliteal, and the plantar regions. On raising the integuments from the fore and inner part of the thigh, a quantity of subcutaneous cellular tissue, the superficial fascia, is brought into view • this is continuous with the superficial fascia of the abdomen scrotum, and perineum ; in the groin it is thick and lami-