G76 SURGERY. Needles armed -with a double thread are passed througli and under the nsevi in different directions, and then the needles being withdrawn the threads left behind are so tied together as to encircle and strangulate the vessels of the parts. This plan has many advocates. To which we would add the injection of some stimu- lating fluid into the cells of the tumour. Many cases of neevus, if attended to in time, will be • cured by means of cold applications and moderate com- pression. A form of aneurism, in which the lining membrane of artery becomes protruded through a rupture of the middle and outer coats, has been described, but it is indebted for its existence to the ingenuity of experimenters on lower animals. ON VARICOSE VEINS. Veins are said to be varicose when they become perma- nently dilated and the circulation is so far retarded in them that their cavity is filled with dark coloured blood. The veins of the lower extremities, the spermatic and hcemorrhoidal \ems, are.more subject to this disease than veins in other parts of the body. A varicose state of the veins is produced by any cause which prevents the due return of the blood ; thus ligatures passed round the Umb, the pregnant uterus, and enlarged liver, are fruitful causes of the disease. There seems to be an hereditary predis- position to this affection in some; and tall persons, par- ticularly those who walk and stand much, are more hable to it than others. Of the veins of the lower extremities, the trunk and branches of saphena major are more frequently varicose, from their superficial course, from being situated immedi- ately beneath the skin, thus wanting the support of the fascia, and from the great length of the trunk. Ihe weight of the column of blood which ascends against gravity, also assists materially in producing the afi"ection. The disease usually commences in the veins about the calf of the leg, generally on the inner side, whence it ascends until it aff'ects all tiie superficial veins of the extremity, in many cases reaching to the trunk of the femoral vein. The patient sufters but Uttle inconvenience