189 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. forwards and inwards between the fibula, the pei'oneous longus, and extensor communis, to which it gives filaments ; it then arrives at the interosseous ligament, and accompanies the anterior tibial artery, lying to its outer side, but lower down, rather in front of it, in which position it passes under the annular ligament to the dorsum of the foot. In its descent it gives filaments to the adjacent muscles, and on the foot divides into two branches: One supplying the extensor brevis and the articulations of the foot. The other passes to supply the opposed sides of the first and second toes. SYMPATHETIC NEBVE. The sympathetic nerve (or nerves, as there is a similar structure on each side of the body,) was formerly called the great intercostal nerve, and was described as com- mencing in the cavernous sinus by filaments from the fifth and sixth cerebral nerves. It is now viewed as a separate nervous system, named ganglionic, and is de- scribed as consisting of a series of ganglia, or nervous centres, connected together by filaments, and communi- cating in various parts with filaments derived from the cerebro-spinal nerves. From its apparent functions it is called the nerve of organic life. The ganglia are found in five regions of the body; namely, the head, neck, chest, abdomen, and pelvis, and are named accordingly. The cranial ganglia are the ophthalmic, spheno-palatine, otic, ganglion of Cloquet, submaxillarij, carotic, and a dis- puted one upon the arteria communicans, named ganglion of Ribes. Some anatomists now think fit to detach the cranial ganglia from the sympathetic, and describe them as offsets from the cerebro-spinal nerves. The cervical ganglia are three; The dorsal twelve; The lumbar five; The sacral, four or five on each side, with an azveos ganglion near the coccyx. The ganglion of Ribes is situated upon the anterior com- municating artery, receiving filaments from the carotic plexus. Its existence is disputed by many The ophthalmic or lenticular ganglion is situated within