610 SUEGEEY. patient being obliged to respire by the diaphragm, and abdominal muscles. Fractures of the ribs are sometimes serious from a spicula of bone being pressed inwards and wounding the lung, thus giving rise to emphysema and in- flammation of this organ, if not actively treated. In fracture of the ribs, if the force be applied directly, the broken ends of the ribs may perforate the pleura costalis and pleura pulmonalis, and may thus give nse to emphysema. The best evidence of the lung being penetrated is cough, with bloody sputa. In this case air may accumulate in the bag of the pleura, and so much compress the lung and pericardium, that it may be necessary to puncture the afi'ected side with a trocar and canula, to allow the escape of the pent-up air. Such cases are extremely rare. When emphysema supervenes, the treatment is the same as in ordinary fracture, for the air which has escaped into the cellular tissue will soon be absorbed and disappear under the influence of the bandages; but it will often be desirable to take a httle blood from the arm, to obviate inflammation. Fracture of the hones of the ^eZ^^is.—These bones are occasionally fractured, and in general, by direct violence. The treatment consists in supporting the bones by means of compresses and bandages judiciously apphed, and en- joining perfect rest at the same time. These fractures are very dangerous, from the mischief done to the soft parts, especially the bladder. , ^ , j • Fracture of the /mM?'.—The femur may be fractured in any part of its extent, but is most frequently broken at its middle third or in its neck. -j j • f Fractures of the neck of the femur are divided mto those which are internal to the capsular ligament, and those which are partly loithin partly toithout the hga- ment. There is no such thing as fracture of the neck of the femur completely beyond the capsular hgament as the ligament extends anteriorly as far as the neck ot the femur itself. The bone may be broken posteriorly; external to (or without) the capsular hgament; but it the fracture extend anteriorly beyond the ligament it must pass through the trochanter major. Fractures ot the neck of the femur are very frequent at the advanced period of life, in consequence of the anatomical changes