BASE OF THE BRAIN. Igl The peduncles of the pineal gland are also commissural. The processus e' cerebeUo ad testes and the valve of Vieussens, are both antero-posterior commissures, and serve to connect parts of the cerebrum and cerebellum. The septum lucidum is considered to be a perpendicular commissure, connecting the corpus callosum and the fornix together. Most of these commissures are composed of white sub- stance, but the soft commissure and the valve of Vieussens, as well as the pineal peduncles, are composed of grey Many actions and thoughts which, from the peculiar arrangement and perfect individuality of the hemispheres, might have been expected to be double, are by this free communication made single; and thus, so to speak, nothing IS done by one side of the body that is not im- mediately perceived by the other. The Spinal cord medulla spinalis, or spinal marrow, is aU that part of the cerebro-spinal axis which is situated below the medulla oblongata. From this point it extends, passing down the spinal sheath, to the first or second lumbar vertebra at which spot it terminates in the cauda equina. In early life it extends almost the whole length of the spinal column (as indeed it does permanently in many animals) but it rapidly assumes its permanent con- dition in the human species. When cut across, its shape IS ovoid, the long axis being transverse, and its size varies m different par s of the canal, it being narrowest in the middle of the corsal region, and broadest at the medulla ob ongata its next largest part being just before it termi- nates and Its next opposite the sixth and seventh cervical It is composed of both white and grey matter, the latter being internal and the white external The spinal cord presents six grooves, of which one is anterior and one posterior, the four others being at the 8 des. The sulcus longitudinalis anterior is tolerably wide but not so deep as the r)n<3^Pl•;rvr . .1 " ,v "'"t:. The sulcus longitudinalis posterior, narrower but deeper than the anterior, extends nearlv hnlf ^.n,, 1 V cord, and terminate, in the gr^yiLsjLr