I 256 ANATOMY. They are composed of two substances: the outer por- tion, called cortical or granular; the inner one, tubular or medullary. , . . . , The cortical substance is about two hues in thickness as a general rule ; but it sends considerable prolongations into the substance of tlie tubular part, which pass between its cones. Its colour is reddish, and its structure some- what soft. It is composed of an immense number ot small tubes, called tubuli uripiferi, in connection with which may be seen numerous .extremely minute granular bodies called Malpighian corpmcules. Each of these latter is formed by a tuft of capillary arteries arranged in a slight dilatation or depression of a tubulus uriniferus, which forms a capsule This capsule is pierced by an afferent artery, (which, by its branches, forms the tuft,) and from it proceeds a sma efferent vein. These efferent veins unite to form small venous plexuses, which surround the tubuli urinifen, and unite to form branches of the emulgent or renal vein. It would appear then that the venous plexus surrounding the tubuh uriniferi and the Malpighian corpuscules form two distinct systems through both of which the blood pisses in its passage from the arteries to the veins the Fatter bein- the first through which it goes It has been surest d by Mr. Bowman that it is by the Malpighian cSu cules and tufts that the aqueous portion ot the ir ne is secreted, whilst it is by the tubidi uriniferi and Ihe venous plexuses immediately surrounding them, that the urea, lit^iic acid, and the more saline portions are '^Thf medullary or tubular part consists of the continua- tions of the tubuli uriniferi, .hich are -ranged m straigh lines and in conical bundles, '^^^-'^^ ternally, the apex towards the pelvis of the ^ dney. Ibese cones are about ten or twelve m number; then apex i. called the mammella or papilla, which is surrounded by a Membranous tube, called caly.. These form three or four large tubes, named infund iula, ^^h cli opeTi or dilate into the large fissure of the kidney, ca^^ed Jdlis. The pelvis of the kidney in respect to the a tery S vein, is behind and below. The emulgent vein is anterior, and the renal artery between them.