INFLAMMATION. 449 that termination of inflammation which is most to be desired, especially where the organs affected are those in which any morbid deposit is either detrimental to life or injurious to the function of the part affected. Thus we should especially endeavour to obtain it in inflammations of the brain, thoracic and abdominal viscera, the eye, &c. as any morbid alteration there will either suspend or materially interfere with the functions of these parts. Effusion of serum takes place very readily in some parts of the body, and in considerable quantity, from in- flammation; but in most instances this fluid can be rapidly reabsorbed when the morbid action ceases—when it occurs in single parts it constitutes oedema, or local dropsy; if in cavities, when it exists in' many parts of the body at one time, it is named anasarca. The fluid itself much re- sembles the serum of the blood, consisting of water, albumen, and some salts, and in active inflammation, this liquid also contains fibrine, resembling closely the plasma of the blood. There is considerable efi'usion about the face and especially the eyelids, in cases of small-pox and erysipelas, under the conjunctiva in purulent ophthalmia, about the glottis in laryngitis, constituting oedema glottidis, in which case laryngotomy or tracheotomy are necessary to save life. In hydrocephalus there is eff"usion of serous fluid in the ventricles of the brain, or on its surface—we find hydro-thorax from pleuritis and organic diseases of the heart, hydrops pericardii from inflammation of that membrane, ascites from peritonitis, hydrocele frequently fi'om inflammation of the tunica vaginalis, and anasarca from an inflammatory state of the kidney. In some cases the watery particles may be absorbed, but the fibrine and albumen remaining, may lead to considerable induration and thickening of parts. Adhesion is caused by the efi'usion of coagulable lymph from the vessels of the part, which Jymph afterwards becomes organised or may be absorbed. This termination of inflammation is generally desired in cases of wounds, either produced by accident or by the knife of the surgeon. When a wound has been inflicted, and it is desirable to unite it as soon, and with as little injury to the consti- tution, as is possible, union by adhesion, or by the first intention, is promoted. For this purpose the wound ia