266 ANATOMY. The spongy portion of the urethra commences at the bulb, and terminates at the orifice in the glans penis. The bulb is a dilatation of the urethra, chiefly of its under part, and is best marked in the adult; it lies in front of the arch of the pubes, is connected to the anus, from which it is distant about three quarters of an inch, by the ano-urethral ligament, and is surrounded by the accele- ratores urinse muscles. From the bulb forwards, the urethra is nearly uniform as to size, except about an inch behind the orifice, where it is slightly dilated, forming the fossa navicularis. The orifice is its most contracted portion. The spongy portion of the urethra is so called from being surrounded by a spongy erectile tissue, most abundaut on its inferior and lateral surfaces ; it is enclosed in a fibrous covering, derived from the triangular ligament, and is con- nected to the groove in the inferior surface of the body ot the penis The urethra is lined throughout by mucous membrane, and is generally smooth, with the exceptions already mentioned. Several small lacunae open on it m a direction forwards; the largest of these are met with on its upper surface; one larger than the rest hes near the fossa navicularis, and is named the lacuna magna, ifie orifices of the lacuna may entangle the point of a bougie, and thus be mistaken for stricture. THE MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION Consist of the testes and their appendages, the vesiculae seminales, prostate gland, Cowper's glands, and the penis. The testes \r^ inclosed in the scrotum. 'Ihe scrotum is composed of the skin, dartos, intercolumnar fascia, ere- master, fascia transversalis, and tunica vaginalis scroti. The skin of the scrotum is thin, of a brownish colour, and scattered over with hairs ; it is continuous on all sides with the surrounding integuments; through it, the veins of the scrotum may be easily seen. In diseases ot the testes these veins are sometimes opened: the operation is performed by compressing the scrotum at its upper part witn one hand, or a bandage, and then puncturing one or more ot the largest veins with the lancet. On the mesial line ot tae scrotum is the raphe, produced by a thickening of the integu- ments ; it is continuous behind with the raphe of the peri- neum, and is lost anteriorly in the under surface of the pems^ The dartos is a thin layer of pink contractile fibres, lying