PAROTID REGION. 313 second fingers of the left hand, held about half an inch apart in the interval he makes an incision over the artery with a lancet or scalpel. The vessel being exposed, it may be opened obliquely If cut across, the divided ends of the vessel will retract, and a sufficient quantity of blood cannot generally be drawn. When the blood flows slowly, a warm sponge should be applied to the part, or the course of the artery filliped with the finger. As soon as a sufficient quantity of blood has been taken, the edges of the wound are to be brought together, and retained in apposition with a strap of adhesive plaster; over this a compress is to be placed, and the whole secured with a bandage brought round the forehead and under the chin. It has been recommended to cut the artery across, before closing the wound; it is in general unnecessary to do so, unless the branch divided be larger than usual. ° Secondary hsemorrhage not unfrequently follows the operation, bhould It prove troublesome, the vessel may be secured with the ligature. As it is, however, difficult to tie arteries in the scalp, a better method is the introduction of a dossil of lint, moistened with spirits of turpentine, into the wound, and placing over it a compress and bandage as before: this method will never fail if properly executed. The cutting across the artery (if not pre- viously done) may also be had recourse to The operation of arteriotoray should never be resorted to when other means may accomplish the desired ends, as, independently o secondary haemorrhage, many other after-consequeuces result w hich are som-ces of much distress to the patient. The presence of the bandage is often found exceedingly unpleasant. Besfdes Sn of ThpT"'"' 1"""^^"*^^' "^'^ sloughs, infiam.' mation of the temporal aponeurosis takes place, and may be followed by the formation of matter beneath the fascia rsome imes one or more of the numerous nervous filaments' vldch The artery should never be opened close to the zvgoma, as it miv shrink beneath this into the substance of the parotid gland Zl Arteria maxillaris interna, larger than the temporal passes olF nearly at a right angle from the bifmS of the e.xternal carotid artery. It soon passes to the kner side of the neck of the lower jaw, and nursnino. n7? . course forwards and inwards, tern'inat^es n tt n maxillary fossa by dividing into the bfraoliLl J -'^f" ing palatine, and nasal arteries. tJ^^ 't Jn., nl'^'S"'^" artery, although not of great len^r h /<= i, v''''^''''y in order to focilitate its'desciSn 1^1^^ In the first stage it descends 14