ANATOMY. 134 Ins. Internal sesamoid bone, and internal side of base of the first phalanx of the great toe. Use. To separate the great toe from the rest. ElEXOB. DIGITOBUM BREYIS PEHFOKATTJS. Or. Inferior and internal part of the os calcis, in- ternal annular ligament, plantar aponeurosis, and intermuscular septa. Ins. Second phalanx of the four lesser toes. Use. To assist the long flexor. A3DUCT0B. MINIMI DIGITI. Or. Outer side of the os calcis, ligament extending from the os calcis to the outer side of the fifth metatarsal bone, the plantar fascia, the external intermus- cular septum, and the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. his. Outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the little Use. To separate the little toe from the rest, and to flex it. Second Layer. MuscuLUS ACCEssoBins. Or. Inferior and internal part of the OS calcis. „ , J J Ins. Outer part of the tendon of the flexor digitorum longus, before it divides. Use. To strengthen the long flexor, and obviate its obliquity. LuMBEicALES, four iu num- ber. Or. Tendons of the flexor digitoram longus. „ ,, „ , Ins. Internal side of the first phalanx of the four lesser toes. Use. To adduct and flex these toes. . , T Third Layer. iLEXOB I'OLLICIS BREVIS. Or. Lower and anterior part of the OS cuboides and external cunei- form bone. Ins. Sesamoid bones, and base of the first phalanx of the great toe. Use. To flex the first jomt of this toe, and bring it close to the others. Addtjctob pollicis. Or. Cu- boid bone and base of the second and third metatarsal bones. Ins. The base of first phalanx and external sesamoid bone, with the flexor pollicis brevis. Use. To approximate the great to the other toes, and slightly flex it beneath them. Tbansveksalis pedis. Or. Anterior extremities of the four external metatarsal bones. External sesamoid bone of the great toe. Use. To approximate the toes, and strengthen the arch of the foot. ElEXOE BBEVIS MIXIMI DI- GITI. Or. Cuboid and fifth me- tatarsal bones, and sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus. Ins. Inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. Use. To flex and adduct the little toe. Fourth Layer. Three interossei muscles are seen on the sole of the foot, and four upon its dorsum. Ineeriob or plautar inter- ossei. 1st. ADDUCTOE MEDII DIGIT!, situated between the second mid third metatarsal bones. Or. Inner side of the third metatarsal bone. ,^,11 Ins. Base of the first phalanx of the third toe.