192 ANATOMY. more than an inch in length; it is oblong in its figure, and of considerable size. The branches from it are the fol- lowing : Ascending, to communicate with the carotic plexus in the carotic canal. External, to the cervical nerves. Internal, to the pharynx, entering into the pharyngeal plexus. Anterior, to unite with the par vagum, glosso-pharj'ngeal, hngual and facial nerves, and filaments named nervi molles, which accompany some of the branches of the ex- ternal carotid ; namely, the superior thyroid, hngual, labial, and ascending pharyngeal. Descending, to the second ganghon; and filaments to form the superficialis cordis. The middle cervical ganglion is very small, and some- times wanting on the left side. Its situation is upon the fifth cervical vertebra. It gives filaments to the superior and inferior ganglia, to the cervical nerves, the thyroid gland, superior thyroid artery and parts adjacent, and sends off the middle cardiac nerve. The inferior cervical ganglion lies upon the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra, and neck of the first rib, behind the vertebral artery. It gives off filaments to the middle cervical and superior thoracic ganglia, branches to unite with the axillary plexus, filaments to accompany the vertebral artery, which form the vertebral plexus, and which run up as far as the base of the skull, communicat- ing in their course with all the cervical nerves : it gives also filaments to the pulmonary plexus, and sends otf the inferior cardiac nerve. The cardiac plexus, destined for the supply of the heart, is formed by the cardiac nerves of the cervical ganglia, and branches from the nervus vagus and recurrent nerves. It is placed around the aorta, the greater portion {deep cardiac plexus) being somewhat above it, and between it and the trachea; the other portion just below the arch, and rather on its anterior aspect, resting somewhat upon the pulmonary artery. This portion has been named superficial cardiac plexus. The branches from this plexus are the following: Some going to the pulmonary plexus; Some to the anterior part of the aorta; Many follow the course of the coronary arteries, and are