INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 477 Sbould the ruptured blood-vessel be large, or the concus- sion last for a sufficient length of time, the patient may pass at once from a state of concussion into one of com- pression. A distinction, if demanded, can be most easily drawn between compression and the second stage of concussion, viz., reaction. In compression there is total insensibility^ loss of muscular power, dilated pupil, stertorous breathing' and slow, labouring pulse. ' In the second stage of concussion there is coma, but not total insensibility, for the patient can be roused so as to mutter short answers; some muscular power; pupil con- tracted; breathing not stertorous; and the pulse is somewhat quicker than natural; there is not unfrequently some vomiting. Fractures at the base of the Cranium.~The skull is sometimes fractured through its base, the fracture tra- versmg generally the temporal and occipital bones into the foramen magnum. This accident is caused by falls on the top of the head from a great height, on some broad hard surface, or by a person falling on his feet The bones then do not give way at the part stricken, but, in consequence of the mechanism of the articulation, at the base of the skull. In addition to the usual symptoms of compression, there is bleeding from the ears, nose, and in some cases, from the eyes ; there is also a serous dischaWe trom the external meatus auditorius. These cases seldoTn recover, as, independently of the great injury done to the bram by the violence of tlie shock, there is in general a large quantity of blood extravasated about its base proceeding from one of the sinuses, or from the carotid Operation of the Trephine.—The surgeon, having decided on the necessity of performing this operation, proc eds m the following manner :-If there be no external wound an incision is made through the scalp down to he bone. This may be a crucial, a straight, a T or a V incision. The number of angles left in the crucial inci- sion makes It ohjectionable. The bone being 'xposed and the periosteum removed to a sufficient extenXT; ,1 of the trephine IS fixed into the cranium, and the in frame iuoved through a semicircular space, by the al n aJ