486 SURGERY. or partially opaque appearance, at the same time the cotiRtitutional symptoms become aggravated, violent fever sets in, and the patient suffers under acute headache, which prevents him taking rest. If these symptoms he not relieved, matter forms in tlie anterior chamber. This is at first small in quantity but . soon increases, so as to occupy a great portion of the anterior chamber. The matter, gravitating to the lower f part of the anterior chamber, assumes a semicircular shape, forming the case termed hypopion. If the disease be left to itself, the matter collects in such quantity that the cornea is rendered more prominent, assumes a conical shape, and ultimately bursts during an aggravated attack of pain; when the matter is discharged the eye shrinks, and the sufferings of the patient gradually cease, vision ji being destroyed. The matter in hypopion may be I' formed directly from the surface of the membrane of the aqueous humour, but more frequently an abscess forms in the interior of the eye, and in general on the anterior surface of the iris, which bursting, gives rise to the ap- pearance described. When the inflammatory symptoms are thus severe, lymph also is in general effused into the interior of the eye, which either closes the pupil or causes the adhesion of the iris to the lens behind, or the inner surface of the cornea in front; thus impaii-mg if not destroying vision. To prevent the destruction of the eye, the most acute antiphlogistic regimen should be adopted and mercury exhibited to salivation; thus, even when matter has been formed, we succeed in Preserving vision by causing ab- sorption of the pus. The extract of belladonna should dso be used freely around the eye to prevent the adhesions of the iris, or to break through them when formed. When violent inflammation extends to the interior of the eye, vision may be destroyed without the formation of matter, by causing a disorganisation of the retina and humours of the eye. The practice of opening the cornea in cases of hypopion, should not be resorted to unless the symptoms are very urgent and the eye is so disteuded with matter, that the cornea is in the state of an absce s and threatens to burst. The formation of matter m the interior of the eye is usually preceded by shiveriugs.