AMPUTATION. 709 Amputation of the fingers and toes.—The first or second phalanges of the fingers may be removed at their articulation by making a circular incision round the finger in front of the joint, dissecting up the skin, and then cutting into the articulation: or by making a semilunar flap of the integuments on the dorsum of the finger, cutting into the articulation, and then forming the under flap by carrying the knife forwards to the necessary extent. The fingers may be removed at the metacarpo-pha- langeal articulation. The toes are almost always removed at the metatarso-phalangeal articulation. This operation is performed by making a longitudinal incision on one side of the articulation through the soft parts as far as the joint; the knife is then carried through the joint, and an incision made on the opposite side corresponding to the first. The two flaps thus formed cover the end of the bone. In this operation the head of the metacarpal bone should be removed, as by so doing, the remaining fingers are brought together more perfectly, and the hand ren- dered more useful, and less deformed. This operation is in general to be preferred to that of amputating at the central joint of the finger, as in this last the first phalanx ■which is left, interferes much with the utility of the re- maining fingers, and is itself of no possible use. We see no objection to the cutting down at once on the neck of the metacarpal bone, and sawing this off" without opening into the articulation. The thumb is removed with its meta- carpal bone by cutting through the soft parts on the inner side down to the articulation; this is then opened into, and a flap formed on the outer side by carrying the knife close to the bone, as far forwards as will make it cor- respond to and cover the first incision. Any of the metacarpal or metatarsal boiies may be removed with the corresponding finger, or toe, in a somewhat similar manner. Modern surgeons recommend the removal of the heads of bones, when these are shattered, as in gun- shot wounds, or become diseased. The operation has met with much success, with the exception of those performed at the kqee-joint.