SURGERY. 708 downwards and outwards. The flap being raised from off the articulation, the knife is passed along the bicipital groove into the interior of the joint, and the attachments of the capsular muscles divided; the head of the bone is now forced outwards by pressing the elbow inwards, and the arm separated by cutting through the vessels, nerves, and soft parts on the inner side, or towards the axilla. Mr. Guthrie commences the first incision immediately below the acromion, and with a gentle curve extends it downwards and inwards through the integuments only, a little below the anterior fold of the armpit. The second incision outwards is made after the same manner, but is carried rather further down, so as to expose the long head of the triceps at the under edge of the deltoid. The third incision, commencing at the same spot as the first but following the margin of the retracted skin, divides the deltoid on that side down to the bone, and exposes the insertion of the pectoralis major, which must be cut through. This flap is now to be raised so as to expose the head of the bone. The fourth incision outwards divides the deltoid muscle down to the bone, when the posterior flap is to be well turned back, so as to bring into view the teres minor, and infra-spinatus passing from the scapula to the great tuberosity of the humerus. The outer and inner flaps being now raised, the head of the bone may be rolled a little outwards, the teres minor and infra-spinatus cut, and an opening made into the joint. The operation is completed as in the foregoing operation. During the amputation at the shoulder-joint the circulation may be commanded by compressing the subclavian artery above the clavicle, or by an assistant taking hold of the soft parts on the inner side of the arm previously to their division. Amputation of the wrist-joint.—The hand may be removed at the wrist-joint by making a semilunar flap of the integuments, first on the anterior, then on the posterior part of the M'rist; the flaps being dissected upwards, the articulation may be opened into on the side, and the disarticulation completed by cutting through the joint and dividing the flexor and extensor tendons. Sir A. Cooper prefers this operation to that of amputating the lower third of the forearm.