SURGERY. 570 into the urethi-a, the instrument is sometimes grasped by the spasmodic action of the muscles which surround the canal here ; the instrument should be allowed to remain until the muscles have fatigued themselves, when it may be passed without difficulty. In obstinate cases of stricture, the catgut bougie will be found useful, as on being intro- duced through the stricture it will become distended by the heat and moisture of the urethra, and thus act more power- fully on the stricture. Much caution is requisite in passing instruments along the urethra, as false passages may other- wise be formed. Some prefer the catheter to the bougie, in the treatment of stricture, as it may be left for some length of time in the urethra, the urine flowing ofi" through its cavity. Instruments, however, when left in the urethra, are frequently the source of much local irritation, and often induce a severe attack of stricture fever. Metallic instru- ments have been frequently used for the purpose of forcing the stricture; they are now seldom resorted to, for any violence is almost invariably foUowed by severe local and constitutional disturbance. Caustic bougies, as they are called, are occasionally used for the removal of a stricture. They are made by inserting a piece of caustic, either the nitrate of silver or potassae hydras, into a hollow in the end of the bougie. The precise situation of the stricture is first to be ascer- tained, by means of a common bougie; then the caustic bougie is to be passed down, and kept appUed to the stricture for one or two minutes. These instruments are only used in very irritable and resisting strictures. When the stricture is "very irritable, the caustic potash is pre- ferred ; but when it occupies a large portion of the canal, and is of unusual firmness, the nitrate of silver is more frequently used. Caustic bougies have latterly fallen into disuse, as their application is frequently followed by retention of urine, a severe attack of fever, inflammation of the urethra, followed by inflammation of the perineum, and abscess, or by haemorrhage on the separation of the sloughs. In one case of haemorrhage. Sir A. Cooper was under the necessity of dividing the artery of the bulb, to restrain the bleeding. Mr. Stafi'ord's instruments for dividing strictures have not been generally adopted by the profession.