125 MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. Or. Radial side of the fifth meta- carpal bone. Ins. Radial side of the first phalanx of the little finger. Use. To draw the little to- wards the ring finger. Interosseiposteriores. Or. Opposed sides of two metacarpal bones. Ins. Base of the first phalanx of the fingers and posterior ten- dinous expansion. They are all abductors from the central line of the middle finger. 1st. Dorsal interosseous, also named abductor indicis, has been before described. 2d. EXTERNTJS MEDII. Or. Second aad third metacarpal bones. Ins. Radial side of the base of the first phalanx of the middle finger. Use. To draw this finger towards the thumb. 3d. Internus MEDir. Or. Retween the metacarpal bones of the middle and ring fingers. Ins. Ulnar side of the fii-st phalanx of the middle finger. Use. To draw this finger towards the ring-finger. 4th. ExTERNTJS AlOTULAHIS. Or. Retween fourth and fifth metacarpal bones. Ins. Ulnar side of the ring- finger. Use To draw the ring to- wards the little fiiiger. MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. ^e1olS™a£r"^"' '''''' '''' Obliqtjtjs exteknus vel de- SCENDENS. Or. External sur- face of the eight or nine inferior ribs at a little distance from their cartilages. Lis. Ensiform cartOage, Hnea alba, tubercle, and symphysis pubis, Poupart's ligament, into the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and the outer edge of the anterior half of the crista ilii: some consi- denng Poupart's ligament as part of this muscle, describe it as also inserted into the linea ileo-pectinea by Gimbcrnat's ligament. Use. To depress the ribs, compress the abdomen, turn the body to one side, or coniointlv to bend it forwards. Obliqtjtjs internus vel as- CENDENs. Or. Eascia lumborum, anterior two thirds of the middle lip of the! crista ilii, and the ex- ternal third of Poupart's liga- ment. Ins. Cartilages of six inferior ribs, ensiform cartilage, the linea alba, also by the conjoined ten- dons into the symphysis and Tipper edge of pubis, and mto t le Imea ileo pectinea. When the tendon of tliis muscle arrives at the outer border of the rectus itspbtsmto two layers, so as to lorm the sheath of the rectus excepting at the lower part half way from the pubis to the um- bihcus, where the three tendons pass m front of the rectus. llse. Its action is like that of