304 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. nerves, and lingual vein are seen. The gustatory nerve first lies above the duct, then arches beneath it, and finally ascends again above it, to be distributed to the papillae on the side and tip of the tongue. It commu- nicates freely with the lingual nerve, which lies near the OS hyoides on the hyo-glossus muscle. The lingual artery passes along the deep surface of the hyo-glossus muscle, or between its fibres, which thus separate it from the lingual nerve. On the mesial line the genio-hyoid muscle is seen running parallel to its fellow, from the chin to the os hyoides. By a little further dissection, the lingualis and genio-hyo- fflossi muscles will be exposed, the latter on the mesial line, the former to its outer side, and separated from it by the ranine artery; as also the three styloid muscles, the stylo-hyoid most superficial, the shjlo-glossus next, and the stylo-pharyngeus deepest. Beneath the anterior and lateral part of the tongue, and covered by the mucous membrane of the mouth, to which it adheres closely, is the sublingual gland, the smallest of the saHvary glands. This resembles the other salivary glands in appearance and structure. It is somewhat oblong in shape, and is bounded above by the mucous membrane, internally by the genio-hyo-glossus muscle, and inferiorly by the mylo- hyoid. It is often connected by its posterior extremity with the prolonged portion of the submaxillary gland; indeed all the salivary glands are frequently jomed together by distinct processes. The sublingual gland gives oft several ducts, (ducts of Riviuus,) some of which perforate the mucous membrane of the mouth, beneath the side of the tongue, whilst others join the Whartoman duct. Arteria lingualis arises from the external carotid, in general between the superior thyroid and labial arteries From its origin the lingual artery curves forwards and inwards towards the os-hyoides, forming an arch convex upwards, and separated from the corresponding arch ot the superior thyroid artery by the cornu of the os hyoides. it passes immediatelv above the os hyoides, internal to or through the fibres of the hyo-glossus muscle, which here separates it from the lingual nerve placed on the cutaneous surface of this muscle. The artery then ascends towards the base of the tongue, from which it proceeds horizoutaUy