202 ANATOMY. passed under the tendon of the rectus superior. The obliquus superior is generally, as well as the nerve that supplies it, called trochlearis. The internal, inferior, and one head of the external rectus, have a common tendinous origin, situated on the little lamina of bone which separates the foramen opticum from the sphenoidal fissure, the other head of the external rectus arising immediately above the optic foramen. They are attached in a similar way to the superior rectus, to the external, internal, and inferior portions of the sclerotic coat. Between the two heads of the external rectus pass the third and the sixth cranial nerves, and the nasal branch of. the ophthalmic division of the fifth, and in some instances the ophthalmic vein. The inferior oblique arises from a minute depression in the orbital plate of the superior maxillary bone, just withm the margin of the orbit. It passes outwards and backwards between the inferior rectus and the floor of the orbit, to be in- serted into the sclerotic at its external and posterior surface. The action of the four recti is, when acting separately, to either raise, depress, or turn in or out the eye, and of course the action of two adjacent ones together will pro- duce a compound movement. The whole four acting together tend to retract, and as some think, to compress the eyeball, whilst the eyeball is supposed to be brought forward by the two obliqui. • • i Some anatomists, however, consider that the principal use of the obliqui is to turn the eyebaU on its axis, so that any small particles of extraneous matter may by this action be swept away. ■ ■ c The tensor tarsi is a small thin muscle, arising from the orbital surface of the lacrymal bone, and passing forwards and inwards over the lacrymal sac, to be inserted by two delicate tendons into the walls of the tubes leadmg from the puncta lacrymalia ; it assists the passage of tears from the eye. It has been called Horner's muscle, from the name of its discoverer. , i i • The orbit is supplied with blood from the ophtha mic artery: the veins unite to form the ophthalmic vein, whicli passes into the cavernous sinus. . The nerves entering the orbit are the 2d pair, pair,