SURGERY. 654 A projection behind, formed by the ends of the radius and ulna, and a depression below this; a projection in front, formed by the carpus and a depression above it. Dislocation of both bones forwards is caused by falls on the palm of the hand. In this the swelling in front is formed by the radius and ulna, that behind, by the carpus; the depressions are beneath the former, above the latter. Both these dislocations are reduced by making extension from the hand. Dislocation of the radius forwards. — In this case the outer side of the hand is thrown backwards and the inner forwards. The extremity of the bone forms a pro- tuberance on the fore part of the wrist. It is reduced by making extension. Dislocation of the ulna backwards.—The ulna is some- times separated from the radius by the rupture of the sacciform ligament, and usually projects backwards. It is known by its projecting on the dorsum of the os cuneiforme, by its being easily returned by pressure to its former situation, and by its rising again when the pressure is removed. When the bone has been returned, place a compress of leather on its extremity and splints on the forearm, so as to keep the bone in its place. Take care that the pressure on the end of the bone does not cause sloughing of the skin. Dislocation of the bones of the carpus.—The bones of the carpus are rarely dislocated. The os magnum is the one which is most frequently displaced and in general backwards. It is caused by falls on the hands. After the reduction of the bone has been eflfected, straps of adhesive plaster should be bound tightly round the wrist. The metacarpal bones are seldom dislocated, except from extreme violence, as the bursting of guns, &c. These cases usually require amputation. Dislocation of the phalanges of the fingers are rare. When the accident does occur, it is more frequently found between the first and second phalanges, than between the second and third. It can be readily ascertained by the projection of the first phalanx backwards, while the head of the second can be felt on the fore part, although less distinctly. It is reduced by extension, inclining the joints slightly forwards at the same time.