ANATOMY. 246 The rest of the small intestines consist of the jejunum and ilium. The upper two fifths of this portion of the intestines are called jejunum, and the lower three fifths iliu7n. The jejunum, so named from being generally found empty, terminates in the ihum, and closely resembles it in its structure. The distinctive characters of the jejunum from the iliura are, its coats are thicker, it is of a redder colour, has more valvulse conniventes, and consequently a greater surface for absorption. . r i The jejunum and ilium occupy, in part, the umbilical region, parts of the lumbar, iliac, and hypogastric regions, and in some measure rest in the pelvis of the adult. They are covered anteriorly by the great omentum, and sur- rounded by the arch of the colon. In the lower part of the ilium there is a large number ot mucous glands or follicles, named Peyer's glands, collected into clusters, hence named glandulse aggregatse; they occupy the concave surface of the intestine, most distant from the mesentery. In typhus fever and phthisis they are often found inflamed and ulcerated. ,, , , , The jejunum and ilium are supphed with blood by the superior mesenteric artery. _ The large intestines commence at the termination ot the ilium in the right iliac fossa; they are the ccecum, colon, foidi rectum. They have the same coats as the small in- testines, but thinner. Their length is from three feet and a half to four feet, forming about a fifth of the intestinal tube. The c^cum and colon are particularly characterised by their sacculated appearance, occasioned by the longitudinal fibres being somewhat shortened and gathered into bands, and they differ from the small intestines in being wider, shorter, and straighter. and by having the appendices epiploicse attached to them. The ccecum, or caput coli, is the first portion; it com- mences from the ilium, and is situated beneath the right kidney, resting in the right iliac fossa. It is bounded in front by the abdominal panetes; behind by the iliacus muscle ; internally has the iluim ooening into it. It is generally covered by peritoneum on its anterior surface only, but sometimes is surrounded by