328 REGIONAL AND SUKGICAL ANATOMY. perforated by Steno's duct, opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. The hard palate or roof of the mouth is formed by the palatine processes of the superior maxillary and palate bones, covered by a dense fibro-mucous membrane, marked irregularly with transverse projections. The tongue is of a triangular shape ; its base is thick and broad, and is connected to the epiglottis by folds of mucous membrane ; on each side, to the soft palate, by the pillars of the fauces ; and more inferiorly, to the os hyoides and lower jaw by muscles : its apex is thin and free. The part between the root and apex is named the body. The upper surface of the tongue, called also the dorsum, is slightly convex on each side, a little depressed in the centre; it is covered by mucous membrane, and presents a number of eminences, named papillae ; these are classed into three or four sets or orders, viz., the conical, which are small, and occupy the anterior part of the tongue, and are endowed with the sense of taste ; the lenticular, varying from nine to fifteen in number, are situated near the base of the tongue, in the form of a V, the apex being turned back- wards, and corresponding to a foramen varying in size and depth, named the foramen caecum ; the fungiform, more numerous than the preceding, are placed near to the sides and tip of the tongue. The under surface of the tongue is but partially covered by mucous merabr^, a fold of which, named frcenum linguce, connects it to Me inner surface of the symphysis of the inferior maxilla. In it may be per- ceived the ranine veins, one on either side of the mesial line, and a peculiar fringed arrangement of the mucous membrane. The Whartonian ducts open on the freenura linguae: these orifices are indicated by projections of the mucous membrane in the form of papillae. The substance of the tongue is composed of a peculiar fleshy mass, by some supposed to be muscular, by others erectile in its nature, intermingled with fat, the fibres of the stylo-glossi, hyo-glossi, genio-hyo-glossi, and palato-glossi and hnguales muscles, arteries, and nerves. In the centre of the tongue, running from behind forwards, is a fibrous septum, which divides it imperfectly into two lateral portions; this is more perfect behind than in the anterior portion. The principal arteries of the tongue are the dorsalis linguse and