ANATOMY. 234 pulmonary artery. During the action of the left ventricle these valves are pressed back into three small hollows existing at the root of the aorta as well as of the pulmonary artery, and called the sinuses of Valsalva. The structure of the muscular substance of the heart is very peculiar, and that of the ventricles is most de- serving of attention. The ventricles appear to consist of two muscular bags, contained within a third, common to both. All the muscular fibres take their origin from the tendinous zones, which may be observed between the junction of the auricles and ventricles, and also terminate in them. They are arranged in successive layers, but the fibres of them are in some measure blended with each other, so that it is impossible to assign to them any definite number. The superficial fibres common to both ventricles, are obhque and curvilinear, proceeding from the base towards the apex; those on the anterior surface pass from right to left, those on the posterior inferior surface in an opposite direction. These fibres do not terminate at the apex, but are matted together, and reflected back towards the base again. Some of the superficial fibres at the apex of the "heart are curved and turned inwards, forming reflected fibres, which constitute the fleshy pillars of the The proper fibres of each ventricle are placed between the superficial and deep fibres of the common muscular coat, in the form of a cone, and resting against each other, with a superior large opening, viz., auricular, and an in- ferior small one, which gives passage to the deep fibres. They proceed from the tendinous zone, in a spiral manner from the base to the apex and back again. The common reflected deep fibres pass in, as just mentioned, and diverge in a radiating manner, and are distributed in three modes: some pass to the opposite wall of the interior of the ventricle, others run along the inside of the same wall, and a thivd set forms the carnese columnse. The muscular fibres of the auricles are also of two kinds, proper and common: the latter run in a transverse direction ; the proper fibres are thin, and take their origin from the auriculo- ventricular zone, and also return to it. Some of them run