288 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. arteries, the subclavian and external jugular veins, some branches of the cervical plexus, the brachial plexus, some glands, and cellular tissue. . The anterior inferior triangle has its apex at the juiic- ture of the omo-hyoid and sterno-mastoid muscles; its base is formed by the mesial hne of the neck ; its posterior boundary is the sterno-mastoid; its superior, the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle. In it are contained the carotid artery in its first or deep stage, the internal jugular vein, and par vagum, and the lateral lobe of the thyroid gland; and, more deeply seated, the recurrent laryngeal nerve,'and inferior thyroid artery. , t -j j • ^ The anterior superior triangle may be subdivided into two triangular spaces by the os hyoides ; that below the bone being named the infra-hyoid space, that above it the supra-hyoid or digastric space. The Mi/r«-%oi^Z space has its apex at the decussation of the omo-hyoid and sterno-mastoid muscles ; its base is turned upwards, and is formed by the cornu of the os hyoides and digastric muscle; its anterior boundary is formed by the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid; its posterior by the sterno- mastoid. It contains the carotid artery in its superficial or second stage, the internal jugular vem, the pneumo- eastric, and descendens noni nerves, the superior thyroid artery, and superior laryngeal nerve. The digastric or supra- hvoid space will be described hereafter. Let us now turn our attention to the muscles exposed in this stage of the dissection ; they are the sterno-mastoid, the omo-hyoid, the sterno-hyoid, and the sterno-thyroid The sterno-mastoid muscle crosses the neck in tne diagonal direction, from the sternum and clavicle to the mastoid process. Near the sternum a triangular space exists between the two origins of the ^"^^^ ^' ^hroug^ which the subclavian vein and artery may be wounded The anterior margin of this muscle serves as our guide in cutting down on the common carotid artery. .I"feriorly^ this vessel is overlapped by the sternal portion of the. muscle ; but, as the muscle ascends, it retreats backwarda from the artery, and thus leaves it covered only b> me skin, platysnjand cervical fascia, The spu- -ce^s ly nerve perforates the sterno-mastoid muscle a little aDONC its centre, giving to it a few filaments.