THE ABDOMEN. 241 giving them strength aud support. Its reflexions from one visciis to another form duplicatures, which receive different names, according to their situation. The reflexion of the peritoneum, from the diaphragm to the liver, forms the ligaments of the liver; that from the liver to the stomach forms the lesser omentum ; from the stomach to the trans- verse colon forms the great omentum ; the portion enclosing the colon forms the mesocolon ; that which extends down aud over the small intestines is called the mesentery. There are, besides these, the ligaments of the bladder, uterus, and rectum, and also the appendices epiploic^, which are formed by it. In the male the peritoneum is a perfectly shut sac ; but in the female there is an opening into it on each side, from the Fallopian tube, the only instance in the body in which a mucous and serous membrane communi- cate. It must be borne in mind that all the viscera are ex- ternal to the peritoneum. Reflexions of the Peritoneum.—l^v&cm^ the peritoneum upwards from the abdominal muscles, it lines the under surface of the diaphragm, passes on to the liver, (forming Its ligaments,) and at its concave part meets a layer comin- from the pillars of the diaphragm and under surface of the stomach. The two layers pass forwards to the smaU curvature of the stomach, forming the lesser omentum cover the stomach, meet at the great curvature, and hang down m folds over the intestines, forming the great omen- tum ; they then ascend and embrace the colon, meet again tormmg the mesocolon, and again separate. The lower layer passes down, is reflected from the spine to the small intestines, surrounds them, and returns to the spine torming the mesentery, then descends laterally over the Jficlneys, part of the rectum, mounts up towards the bladder and uterus and ascends upon the abdominal parietes The ascending layer of the mesocolon goes over\he pancreas duodenum, and crura of the diaphragm, and nJTo Za the other portion at the under surface of the liver Ihis ast portion of the peritoneum lines a space, called the bag of the omentum, which has not a very free coramu,^^^ cafon with the rest of the abdominal cavity I^TIZ opening into it is behind the rounded edge^of the lesser omentum, which contains the large hepatic vessel? and I by some called Glisson's capsule.'