172 AKATOMY. side being behind, that on the left being in front, and passing through the diaphragm, is finally distributed upon the stomach. . , The particular branches of the par vagum are the lol- lowing: 1 The pharyngeal branch, which, with filaments of the sympathetic, laryngeal, and glosso-pharyngeal nerves, forms the pharyngeal plexus upon the middle constrictor. 2 The superior laryngeal nerve, which descends on the inner side of the carotid artery, and divides into two branches; the external one distributed to the crico-thyroid muscle and the'thyroid gland; the other internal perforating the thyro-hyoid ligament is distnbuted to the epiglottis and its glands, the membrane hniiig the larynx, and anastomoses with the inferior thyroid. 3. Cardiac branches, to anastomose with the superficialis cordis. 4 The recurrent or inferior laryngeal passes along the side of the trachea, and reaching the larynx is distributed to all the proper laryngeal muscles, except the crico-thyroid; in its course it gives filaments to the pulmonary plexus, to the oesophagus and under surface of the trachea, to the inferior constrictor of the pharynx, and anastomoses with the superior laryngeal nerve. 5. BroncMal branches, forming, with the recurrent and sympathetic, the anterior and posterior pulmonary plexus. 6. (Esophageal branches, forming a plexus around the oesophagus. The terminating branches ramify on the stomach, anastomosing with the hepatic, coronary, and solar plexus. During the last few years, the majority of physiologists consider that the superior laryngeal nerve presides over sensation only, and the inferior laryngeal presides over the motion of the muscles of the larynx, and is consequently the true nerve of voice. 3d. The nervus accessoriiis, or superior posterior respi- ratory nerve, takes its origin in the cervical portion of the spinal cord, as low as the fourth or fifth cervical vertebra; it then passes into the cranium, through the foramen magnum; and quits it by the jugular foramen ; passing behind the internal jugular vein, it descends m the neck, perforating the sterno-mastoid muscle, to which it gives filaments, and is ultimately distributed to the trapezms muscle 'Yhe ninth, hypoglossal, or lingual, arises from between the corpora pyramidalia and corpora ohvaria: the fibres unite into a trunk on each side, which passes out at tne anterior condyloid foramen, internal to the par vagum aiid l^^lZheiic; it passes forward between the internal carotid