ANATOMY. 132 dyle of the femur, (according to some,) forming the ligament of Winslow; and into the posterior heads of tibia and fibula. Use. Like the former, and to strengthen the posterior part of the knee-jomt. MUSCLES ON THE ANTEEIOR PART OF THE LEG. Tibialis ANTicus. On Outer part of the two superior thirds of the tibia, the inner half of the interosseous ligament, fascia of the leg, and the intermuscular septa. Ins. Inner side of the internal cuneiform bone and base of the first metatarsal bone. Use. To adduct the foot, turn the toes inwards, and support the leg. Extensor digitoritm longus. Or. External part of the head of the tibia, head of the fibula, and three fourths of this bone, part of the interosseous ligament, fascia of the leg and intermuscular septa. Ins. Last phalanx, of the tour external toes. Use. To extend the toes and flex the foot. Extensor POLLi CIS proprius. Or. Inner edge of the middle third of the fibula, the inter- osseous ligament, and sometimes from lower part of the tibia. Ins. By two tendinous fasci- culi, one into the base of the first, the other into the base of the second phalanx of the great toe. Use. To extend the great toe, bend the ankle, and rotate the foot inwards. Peroneus TERTins. Or. An- terior surface of the lower half of the fibula. Ins. Base of the fifth meta- tarsal bone, and fibres to join the foui-th tendon of the extensor communis. Use. To extend the little toe, bend the ankle, abduct the foot, and raise its outer edge. MUSCLES ON THE OUT PeKONEUS LONGUS. Or. Ai-oujid the head of the fibula, adjacent surface of tibia, the upper half of the external angle of the fibula, the fascia, and in- termuscular septa. Ins. Outer side of the meta- tarsal bone of the great toe, and adjacent sesamoid bone, also into the internal cuneiform bone and base of the second metatarsal bone. \ LR PART or THE LEG. Use. To extend the foot, to turn it outwards, and elevate its external edge. Peroneus brevis. Or. Outer and back part of the lower half of the fibula, and the intermus- cular septa. Ins. Os cuboides and base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. Use. Like the former.