ANATOMY. 14 The intervertebral substance, fibro-cartilaginous ex- ternally, is found between all the vertebrae, and between the last lumbar vertebra and sacrum, but not between the atlas and axis. It is thin in the cervical region, thicker in the dorsal, thickest in the lumbar, very firmly attached to the various vertebrae. Its vertical thickness is greater anteriorly, in the cervical and lumbar portions, so as to produce the anterior convexity of those parts, but deeper posteriorly in the dorsal. It consists of cuxular, concen- tric, and decussating fibres, is dense in the circumference, but in the centre and near the vertebral canal is pulpy and semifiuid, and is supposed to form a fluid pivot, around which the motions of the vertebrae are performed ; this substance is very elastic, and preserves the spine from the effects of shocks. In the upright posture it is gradually compressed, hence a person is found to be perceptibly taller after long rest than after the fatigues of a day. Small ligaments, named crucial, are described by some authors as crossing and covering this, anteriorly passing from one vertebra to another. They are not worth the name of separate ligaments. The ligamenta subjlava are situated posteriorly between the laminae of the vertebrae, excepting between the first and second cervical: they are also found between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum. They extend from the inferior edge of the lamina of the vertebra above, to the edge of the one below; they do not quite meet in the mesial line ; but leave a triangular interval, filled up with reddish cellular tissue. They have a yellow colour, are dense in structure, firm and elastic, resembUng the yellow tissue of the middle coat of the arteries. The other ligaments of the spine are less important, and are chiefly seen in the dorsal and lumbar region, muscles supplying their place in the neck. The intei'-spinous and supra-sjnnous ligaments are suf- ficiently explained by their names. The inter-transverse ligaments are very indistinct, and are not described by some anatomists. Synovial capsules surround the articulations between the articulating pro- cesses of the vertebrae. These articulations are called planiform. Viewing the spine generally on its anterior, posterior,