699 AMPUTATION. the thigh in the usual situation, namely, at the junction of its middle and inferior third, or a hand's breadth above the knee-joint, and describe first the circular amputation of the thigh. The necessary examination of the state of the thoracic and abdominal viscera having been found satisfactory, the patient is placed, sup- ported by pillows, on a table of sufficient height. Any hairs should be removed from the thigh, before commencing the operation, as, if left, they cause serious annoyance by the sticking plaster adhering to them during the after treatment. The patient should then be brought to- wards the edge of the table with the limb projecting beyond it, the sound foot resting on a small stool or chair, while the diseased limb is supported in the hands of a careful assistant, who kneels in front of the patient for this purpose. The tourniquet is now applied around the thigh at the junction of its upper and middle thirds, and made secure, the pad and instrument being placed directly over the course of the femoral artery. This instrument, although the best adapted to the purpose, is liable to two objections: first, it prevents the retrac- tion of the integuments after having been divided; secondly, it stops by its circular pressure the return of the venous blood, by which a large quantity of blood is always lost; when it is desirable that this should be avoided, the artery should be compressed, where it crosses the horizontal ramus of the pubes by means of a key, or the handle of a tourniquet covered vrith lint. This method is also to be preferred in amputations high up in the thigh. To prevent the effect of the tour- niquet in arresting the retraction of the integuments, these should be drawn upwards, as much as possible, previously to its being applied. The circulation having been commanded, the operator stands on the right side of the limb of the patient, passes the right hand under the thigh to be removed, and holding the point of the knife in the left hand, drops it into the right; the knife is now to be carried round the limb from heel to point, and the integuments divided down to the fascia, or as Mr. Guthrie advises, through the fascia, by which means the integu- ments retract more freely. The integuments, if not sufficiently retracted, are now to be dissected upwards, to the extent of about two inches, and turned back so as to leave room for the further application of the knife. The muscles are now to be divided down to the bone, or the superficial muscles may be first divided, and then the deeper-seated ones close to their retracted extremities; the former having been found to retract more freely than the latter, in consequence of their attach- ment to the bone. Should an abscess be opened into, as occasionally happens in amputating a limb, the cyst of the abscess should be dis- sected out as far as possible, and the lodgment of matter prevented, by proper application of bandages and compresses. The retractor is now to be appHed, and the soft parts withdrawn. The bone being freed from any muscular fibres remaining attached to it (or tliese even detached to tiie extent of one or two inches), it is now to be sawn through, and the limb removed. During the sawing of the bone tlie assistant who supports llie limb is to be careful to hold it steadily,