612 SUEGEHY. about the articulation, are most likely to be mistaken for fracture of the neck of the femur. The treatment of fracture of the neck of the femur con- sists in placing the limb on the double inclined plane, the knee being flexed, and keeping the part at rest. At the end of six weeks partial motion may be permitted, and at the expiration of the seventh or eighth week the patient may be allowed to get up, and walk on crutches with the limb supported by a sling. Many surgeons prefer the use of the long splint in these fractures, as they are better able to ensure the more perfect apposition of the fractured parts. In old persons, many adopt the plan of Sir A. Cooper, viz., to use no splintg, but to keep the patients in bed, with a pillow under the knees for about three weeks, and then to aUow them, by the aid of crutches, to move about, and thereby induce more vascular action favorable to union, and at the same time obviating bed sores, to which old persons are very liable if long kept in the same position. Bony union does not take place in fractures of the neck of the femur within the capsular ligament; the union is ligamentous, and formed by bands of Hgamentary structure passing from the fractured portions to the inner surface of the capsular ligament, aided by thickening of this ligament, and of the synovial membrane. The causes of the non-ossific union are found to be the advanced age of the patient,— the difficulty of keeping the bones in apposition, and the deficient vitality of the head of the bone, which, when the neck is fractured, is supplied with vessels through the liga- raentum teres only. Fracture of the neck of the femur, partly without the capsular ligament, takes place in younger subjects, is caused by greater violence, and is attended with more pain ; it is indicated by the greater shortening of the liuib (Sir A. Cooper states the reverse, that given is the generally received opinion,) and the history of the case. Its treatment is similar to that for fractures without the capsule. Ossific union may take place. Dessault, Boyer, and other surgeons have recommended various instruments for maintaining a state of permanent extension during the treatment of fractures of the neck of the femur: they are now seldom used, as the patient is generally unable to bear this operation for any length of time.