SURGEEY. 634 Enchondroma, as its name implies, is a cartilaginous disease and degeneration of bone. It proceeds either from the periosteum or internal structure, and may affect the carpal bones, phalanges of the fingers, and more rarely other bones of the body. The tumour usually consists of a shell of bone, containing cartilaginous matter in its interior; when it attacks the cancellous structure the bone becomes soft and expanded, and attains a considerable size, and interferes with the movements of the limb. The disease is not malignant. If it does not give way to the application of iodine or mercury, excision or amputation will be required to remove the deformity. Osteo-cystoma is a disease in which the bone expands into a thin sheU, with septa in its interior, and containing a fluid of a serous or sanious character. It was formerly named spina ventosa. It may be punctured and sup- ported by pressure, but generally requii-es excision or amputation to remove the inconvenience. Osteo-cephaloma is a fungoid malignant disease of bone, which may occur primarily there, or reach the bone from neighbouring parts. The only hope is in early amputa- tion. This disease is described previously under the name of osteo-sarcoma, although some take pains to draw a broad distinction between them. Osteo-carcinoma implies carcinomatous disease of bone of very rare occurrence, generally secondary to cancer in other parts, as the mamma, &c. Osteo-melanosis consists of melanotic deposit in bones, and is also secondary to the disease attacking other parts. Vascular tumours are described, including osteo-aneu- rism, growth of erectile tissue, and medullary deposits. Hydatids are occasionally formed in bone, in the can- cellated tissue, and cause great enlargement of the extre- mities, with great tenuity of the covering ; the disease may be treated by puncture, by excision, and may lead to the necessity of amputation. DISEASES OF JOINTS. The principal diseases of joints are inf ammation of the synovial membrane or synovitis, ijijlammation or ulceration of the cartilayes, scrofulous diseases of the ends of the bone or ivhite swellings, and rheumatic affections. lu addition