THE TESTES. 269 • the epididymis, where they become tortuous, and receive the uame of coni vasculosi, which unite ultimately into one tube, and form the vas deferens, which being convoluted descends, forming part of the globus major, and the whole of the globus minor, of the epididymis. The Epididymis applied to the upper and back part of the testis, and attached to it by the vessels and nerves of the testis, is composed of a head or globus major or upper extremity, a body or central portion, and a tail or globus minor, which forms its lowest extremity; from this the vas deferens escapes, and turning upwards ascends along the mner side of the epididymis, and enters the spermatic cord; a small tube like an appendix vermiformis, terminating in a cul-de-sac, is sometimes found attached to the vas deferens in the situation of the globus minor. This is known by the name vas aberrans. The testis is supplied with blood from the spermatic artery. This vessel arises from the front of the abdominal aorta, a little below the renal artery; from this, it de- scends outwards, in front of the psoas muscle and ureter, and behind the peritoneum, enters the internal abdominal ring, and is conducted by the spermatic cord to the upper and back part of the testis, where it perforates the gland, and divides there into numerous branches, which terminate in the vascular coat of the testicle. The spermatic veins ascend from the testis, in the spermatic cord, in the lower part of which they wind round the spermatic artery forming a plexus, the corpuspanipiniforme ; they afterwards become single, and terminate in the vena cava on the right side, but in the renal vein on the left. The spermatic plexus of nerves arises from the renal plexus, the splanchnic nerves, and some filaments from the lumbar ganglia of the sympathetic ; they soon join the spermatic vessels, and descend with them to the testis. The lumbar plexus also sends a few branches to the spermatic cord and scrotum The spermatic cord is thus formed of the veins, nerves absorbents and excretory duct of the testis, the va^ deferens, deferential artery, united by fine cellu ar tissue and inclosed in the tunica vaginalis of the cord, the dege: nerated portion of the peritoneum, and covered bv the cremastcr muscle. The vas deferent lies poste ■ orlyl L herf'll^ "^^'■"'^^ ^Wominal ig; i here hooks round the epigastric artery, passes inwal-ds.