SURGERY. 630 he have been confined to bed, it will most likely point on the posterior surface of the body; but if he have been walking about it will descend. These abscesses have been frequently confounded with other diseases, such as aneurism, hernia, and fistula in ano. The sense of fluctuation and the history of the case will in general serve to distinguish them. The plan of treatment in the second stage differs but little from that recommended for the first, with the exception that leeches may be dispensed with. The abscesses are best left to nature, unless when they are productive of much uneasiness, local or constitutional. Mr. Abernethy has recommended their being opened frequently, and their contents given exit to, by which means the cyst of the abscess may be made to contract, and thus become obliterated. His plan is as follows: Select a part of the tumour which is free from inflammation, or any large blood-vessel, and not the most depending, through this introduce an abscess lancet obliquely into the abscess; allow the matter to flow off", taking care that no air enters; having nearly or wholly emptied the cyst, close the lips of the wound with adhesive plaster, that it may unite by the first in- tention, and apply a bandage and compresses over the cyst, so as to make pressure on it, and retard its future increase. By repeating the operation twice or thrice, it is hoped that a cure will be eff"ected, as already mentioned. This plan has been found not to succeed: in some the external wound has not healed, and the matter has con- tinued to be discharged until the patient has sunk under the disease; in others the wound, although closed, has opened anew, producing the same result; whilst in many, inflammation has attacked the cyst of the abscess, and caused a fatal termination by the severe local and con- stitutional disturbances thus excited. In the latter case the patient is attacked with shiverings a few hours after the operation, the integuments covering the cyst become red, tender to the touch, a thin sanious matter, mixed with bubbles of air and clots of blood, is discharged from the abscess, dehrium sets in, and the patient dies. This plan of treating chronic abscess should be confined to those cases which are not complicated with diseased bone.