580 STJEGEKY. separates, and a communication maybe established between the mouth and nose, which gives a nasal sound to the voice, and allows of fluids passing from one cavity to the other The discharge is thin and ichorous, and ot very offensive smell. The tonsils also become aflected with sores, having the characters of chancres. The throat feels dry and the inflammation extends along the Eustaclnan tubes to the ear, producing acute pain and deafness, ihe mucous membrane covering the velum, and hning the back of the pharynx, is also liable to a similar state of u cera- tion This not unfrequently extends to the cervical ver- tebrse, and proves fatal by the destruction of the bones, or the opening of the vertebral artery. , • . Syphilitic disease will extend from the throat into the larvnx, where, inducing ulceration and thickening of the raucous membrane, it impedes respiration, and may prove fatal, by causing suffocation of the patient. It sometimes occurs, in these cases, that portions of the cartilages of the larynx become detached, and are spit up. Mercury should be exhibited for the cure of these affections of the throat and fauces, either internaUy or by means of mercu- rial fumigations: local applications, such as the lotio nit: ar-enti, linimentum seruginis, &c. being made use of to the sore Should there be much inflammation present this should be subdued before the mercury is commenced with. In this case, and also most other forms of secondary syphilis, the happiest results have been produced by the administration of iodide of potassium with small doses of iodine, and large quantities of the decoction of ^«-^P<->l »• In syphilitic laryngitis the administration o calomel and opium, so as to bring the patient as rapidly as pos ible under the influence of mercury, will be most judicious blisters and leeches being applied externally to reheve the inflammatory symptoms. . ^ The mucous membrane of the cavity of the nose is oc- casionally attacked with syphilitic ulceration ; a thin icho- rous discharge, mixed with clots of blood, escapes, and is often followed by exfoliations of the spongv, and, at a later period, of the nasal bones, causing much de ormity. in this affection mercury should be exhibited with much caution, as the disease may have been produced by the too great use of this medicine. Generally speaking, the