358 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. Arteria superficialis voles descends inwards over the anterior annular ligament to the root of the thumb, where it sends off several branches to the muscles of the thumb and surrounding integuments, and terminates by anasto- mosing with the superficial palmar arch. ArterioB carpi radialis, anterior and posterior, proceed from the radial artery, one on the anterior, the other on the posterior surface of the carpus, and pass to the carpal bones beneath the tendons, supplying the bones of the carpus and the synovial membrane of the wrist, and anastomosing with corresponding branches from the ulnar artery. Arterice dorsales pollicis are two branches sometimes arising from one common trunk, which run along the lateral and dorsal surfaces of the thumb to its extremity. While sunk in the cleft between the first and second metacarpal bones, the radial artery divides into its three terminating branches, namely, the arteria princeps pollicis, arteria radiaUs indicis, and the arteria radialis profunda. Arteria princeps pollicis runs along the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and at its extreme end divides into two branches, which run along the lateral surfaces of the phalanges of the thumb to its extremity, and there anastomose with each other, and with the preceding branches. Arteria radialis indicis runs along the radial side of the index finger to its extreme end, where it anastomoses with the branch on the ulnar side of the index finger from the superficial palmar arch of arteries. Arteria palmaris profunda runs in the hollow of the hand along the carpal extremities of the four metacarpal bones, and the interos- seous muscles beneath the flexor tendons aud lumbricales muscles, and opposite the fifth metacarpal bone anastomoses with the communicating branch from the ulnar arterj', thus completing the deep palmar arch. From the convexity of this arch, where it is directed towards the fingers, several small branches pass to the interossei muscles; from its concavity branches ascend to anastomose with the carpal branches of the radial, and ulnar arteries. The deep palmar arch of arteries is accompanied by a corresponding arch of nerves, formed by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve. The nervous arch lies superficial to the arterial. The radial artery is in general tied in consequence of its being wounded, or to restrain hajmorrhage from the palmar arch when injured. It may be secured with facility in any part of the fore- arm by cutting" through the integuments and fascia. In the middle and lower third the radial side of tlie flexor carpi radiahs tendon guides us to the artery, but in the upper third we are to