STJEGEHY. 488 fula in other parts of the body. The treatment is more constitutional than local. The taint in the constitution should be removed by attention to the stomach and bowels, the use of iodine in the form of iodide of potas- sium, and iodide of iron; the assistance of proper food, moderate exercise, and good air. As local remedies, leeches, bhsters behind the ears, the solution of nitrate of silver, the vinous tincture of opium, the oxide of zmc, or dilute nitrate of mercury ointments, are found beneficial. A. seton in the neck, or issues in the temple or arm, often remove the disease when other remedies have failed. This inflammation generally destroys vision, by the formation of ulcers on the cornea. t • j- i. j Purulent or Gonorrhoeal Ophthalmia.—it is disputed whether this disease is induced by the direct apphcation of gonorrhoeal matter to the eye, or by a metasta^s of the Konorrhoeal inflammation from the urethra. The first opinion appears to have the greatest support. It is charac- terised by great sweUing of the conjunctiva, which is fre- quently protruded beyond the hds, followed by a dis- charge of greenish yellow matter, in large quantities. _ The heat and pain in the eyes are considerable, an aversion to light prevails, and in some instances an appearance of hvpopion is visible in the anterior chamber of the eye. Purulent inflammation of the conjunctiva destroys vision bv inducing opacity of the cornea, by inflammation ex- tending to the interior of the eye, or by causing a slough- ing of the cornea. In the latter case, successive layers of the cornea are thrown ofi", which, previous to their sepa- ration, lose their transparency, and present an irregular appearance, not unlike a false membrane partiaUy de- tached from the part. The cornea being thus destroyed, the eye bursts, the humours escape, and vision is lost The eve is sometimes lost in this disease m the course of twenty-four hours. Purulent ophthalmia is treated in the inflammatory stage by the local and general abstraction of blood, the use of purgative medicmes, and alterative doses of mercury. When the violence of the inflam- mation has been partially subdued, the solution of the nitrate of silver, gr. xx ad 5j, applied freely to the in- flamed surface, is beneficial. Should the symptoms not yield to this treatment, mercury becomes necessary, ihe