182 ANATOMY. The filaments from these several dorsal nerves are as follows: From each a filament or two of communication to the contiguous ganglion of the sympathetic. The first dorsal nerve is large, and enters almost entirely into the formation of the brachial plexus. The superficial branches of the second, after perforating the ex- ternal intercostal muscles crosses the axilla, descends to the inside of the arm, as low down as the inner condyle, communicating witfi the internal cutaneous nerve. It is named iniercosto-hurneral nerve, or nerve of Wrisberg; but, more recently, anatomists give this name to the small cutaneous nerve of the brachial plexus. The superficial branches of the seven succeeding intercostal nerves, are distributed to the mammae, pectoraUs major, external oblique muscle, and integuments, according to then- situations. The twelfth dorsal differs from all the others; it first sends a branch to the first lumbar nerve, then passes for- wards and a httle downwards upon the quadratus lum- borum, at the edge of which it divides into two filaments; the deep one passes forwards to the space between the transversalis and internal oblique muscle, to reach the rectus, supplying filaments to each; the superficial fila- ment runs between the internal and external oblique muscles, supplying them and the integuments, and gives off a small lateral cutaneous branch, which passes over the crest of the ilium down to the gluteal region. LUMBAR NERVES. The lumbar nerves are five in number, and have a double origin like the dorsal nerves. They form part of the cauda equina. They pass out of the canal at the inter-vertebral foramina, and, soon after their exit, divide into anterior and posterior branches : the first emerges between the first and second lumbar vertebra, the fifth between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum. The posterior branches take a course backwards, between the corresponding transverse processes of the vertebrae, and supply the deep lumbar muscles. The anterior branches pass downwards and somewhat outwards, are connected together by twigs, and, with the filaments of the sympathetic, form an interlacement, named Lumbar plexus. These nerves increase in size from above downwards.