CEEYICAL NEKVES, 1/5 branches of the ophthalmic, ascending branches of the pes anserinus, and auricular branch of the third cervical nerve. In its course it gives filaments to the— First and third cervical nerves; posterior recti, and oblique mHScles; splenius, and complexus. The third cervical nerve emerges between the vertebra dentata and third cervical vertebra. Its posterior branch, smaller than that of the second, winds backwards, perforates the muscles to become sub- cutaneous, and is distributed to the back of the head and neck. It gives off filaments to the second and foiurth cervical nerves, and the various contiguous muscles. The fourth cervical nerve emerges, like the former, from between the third and fourth cervical vertebrae. Its pos- terior branch is very small; it runs between the transverse processes of the corresponding vertebrse, gives filaments to the complexus splenius and trapezius, perforates the two latter muscles, and terminates in the integuments of the neck. The anterior branches of the second, third, and fourth cervical nerves unite by filaments, soon after their exit; they communicate by filaments with the superior cervical ganglion, sometimes with the middle ganglion. They form the cervical plexus. This plexus rests upon the splenius colli, the anterior border of the scalenus medius and levator anguli scapulae, and is covered over by the sterno- mastoid muscle: the branches given off from it may be divided into superficial and deep. Most of the former are seen winding round the posterior edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle, to reach its external surface ; and some descending as far as the clavicle. The superficial branches are the following : 1. Posterior, or small occipital, ascends along the posterior edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle to the occiput, giving filaments to the back ot the ear and occipital integuments. It anastomoses with the nervus accessonus and portio dura. 2. Middle, or great auricular nerve, first crosses the sterno-mastoid muscle a short distance above the external jugular vein, ascends to- wards the parotid gland where it divides into filaments; some entei- he gland and unite with the portio dura, others mount up in front of afeuu'he head''''° ''"fl are distributed to the integuments 3. The anterior branch, transverse cervical or superficialis colli.