186 ANATOMY. bladdei', and supply its muscular and mucous coat, the prostate gland, and vesiculse seminales; and in the female, the urethra. The pudic nerve is the largest of the internal branches, and appears to come chiefly from the third sacral. It follows very closely the course of the pudic artery: the branches given off by it are— A superficial perineal branch, wliicli gives off long twigs to the sphincter ani and margin of the anus, and filaments to the erector penis, accelerator urinae, and transversus peiinaei, and is lost upon the dartos and scrotum. Branches to the integuments, urethra, and glaus penis. The superficial perineal branch is largest in the female, and is distributed chiefly upon the labia. The small sciatic nerve gets out from the pelvis below the margin of the pyriformis muscle, to the inner side of the great sciatic nerve, supported by the superior gamellus, and overlapped by the gluteus maximus. Its branches are— Inferior gluteal consisting of small filaments, to the gluteus maximus. Posterior and internal cutaneous, which passes inwards, beneath the tuber ischii, and, perforating the fascia, is distributed to the integuments about the inside of the thigh, scrotum, or labia. Middle cutaneous pierces the fascia, and descends, supplymg the skin, as far as the popUteal space and upper half of the back of the leg. The great sciatic nerve is the largest nerve of the body. It passes out of the pelvis below the pyriformis muscle, then descends between the great trochanter and tuber ischii, over the small rotators, viz., the gemelli, obturator interaus, and quadratus femoris, then rests upon the adductor magnus, under cover of the biceps, and descends towards the popliteal space. There are small branches given off by it, viz. : Filaments to the flexor muscles. Superficial branches which pierce the fascia, and are dis- tributed to the outside of the knee, forming external cutaneous branches. Filaments to the external rotators. „ hip-joint. „ abductor magnus; and ,, short head of the biceps. The great sciatic nerve divides about midway down the