DISLOCATIONS. 657 in front of or immediately beneath the edge* of the malar bone. In the partial dislocation of the lower jaw, one condyle only is thrown forwards. The symptoms are much the same as the preceding, except that they are not so sti-ongly marked ; the lower jaw is thrown, also, to one side, so as to give the face a twisted appearance; the teeth of the lower do not correspond to those of the upper jaw. It is reduced, like the complete dislocation, the force being applied to one side only. There is a subluxation of the lower jaw, which takes place in persons of a delicate relaxed constitution. In this the condyle slips from the interarticular cartilage. The displacement should first be reduced, and the relaxed habit of the patient then removed by the use of tonic medicines. When a dislocation is combined with fracture, the dislo- cation should be at once reduced by applying the extending force above the fractured part. Dislocations of the spine.—These accidents are produced only by great violence, as by falls from a height. Dislo- cation of the vertebrae rarely if ever takes place without a fracture, except in the cervical vertebrae, and particularly between the first and second. The injury is always the more serious the nearer it is to the head. Sympto7ns: Paralysis of the parts of the body below the seat of injury, caused by laceration of the spinal marrow; pressure upon It by the displaced bones, or by eff"usion of blood into the spinal canal; involuntary discharge of faeces, and retention of urine or stillicidium urinae shortly before death ; flatu- lent distension of the abdomen from eff"usion of air into the cavity of the intestines, and a constant erection of the penis, named priapism. These accidents are usually fatal. In injuries of the lower cervical vertebrae, death takes place in a few days; but if the fourth, or any vertebra above It, be injured, death is generally instantaneous, from the paralysis of the muscles of respiration. In injuries below the origin of the phrenic nerve, hfe may be supported for a short period. A person having a fracture of the dorsal vertebree commonly lives about a fortnight or three weeks. When the lumbar vertebra, have been in- jured the patient may survive for some months. The spinal marrow is subject to concussion from falls or violent 28 §