SECONDAEY FOEMS OF SYPHILIS. 579 many may be sympathetically inflamed. A bubo may not form until after the healing of the sore, as its forma- tion may be delayed by some other disease in the patient. Mercury should be exhibited as for the treatment of the chancre, and local remedies applied to lessen the inflam- mation: of these, leeches and cold evaporating lotions will be found most beneficial. It frequently happens that treatment will not prevent the gland from advancino- to suppuration; this is indicated by sharp throbbing pains m the part; when these appear, the mercury should be laid aside, and purgative medicines administered, poultices and fomentations being applied at the same time to the swellmg. As soon as fluctuation becomes manifest a small opening should be made into the bubo with the point of the lancet, and the disease treated as a common abscess. If a bubo be improperly treated by a persever- ance in the use of mercury sloughing will take place, pro- ducing the sloughiug bubo. This affection is treated on the prmciples of mortification from any other cause The sloughing not unfrequently extends to the iliac or femoral artery, when death is caused by hcemorrhage. Where a bubo is large and contains much matter, it should be opened with the seton passed throu<^h it or bv the application of caustic; the latter is to be preferred where the skin is thinned to a considerable extent. Sinuses sometimes form in the treatment of a bubo; they should be laid open with a bistoury. ON THE SECONDARY FORMS OF SYPHILIS. The secondary forms of syphilis appear in three situa tions, namely, the mucous membrane of the throat and nose, the skin, and the periosteum and bones Secondary symptoms seldom show themselves before siv to eight weeks after the primary, but the two may coexist They generally show themselves in the following o^deJ '^f sore-throat, eruption on tlie skin, iritis, and periostiti's ' Secondary syphilitic diseases of the mouth m„J ^- When syphUis affects the floor of the nose, or roof of the mouth tC f becomes red and inflamed, and a'pt^ onT f"\Krobe bony palate is Lpised, anTmTy^e telt with tbe probe. The exposed bone in some time