198 ANATOMY. choroid coat. It is perforated laterally and posteriorly by the ciliary nerves and vessels; and posteriorly, internally and inferiorly to the axis of the eye, by the optic nerve. The tendinous expansion of the recti muscles upon the anterior part of the sclerotica has obtained the name of tunica alhuginea. The cornea is the transparent covering in front of the eye, about six lines in diameter, but which is shghtly greater in the transverse direction; by its outer margin, which is bevelled off only in front, it is attached to the sclerotica, which slightly overlaps it, on account of which anatomists say that the cornea fits into the sclerotica, like a glass into a watch-case; externally, it is covered by the conjunctiva; internally, it is in contact with the membrane of the aqueous humour. It is convex anteriorly, concave posteriorly, and composed of several lamellae connected by cellular substance, with a thin serous fluid between them ; its posterior layer is named cornea elastica. The choroid membrane, situated between the sclerotica and retina, is essentially vascular. It extends from the optic nerve to the ciliary ligament; near its anterior margin, it is thrown into folds or processes, which he upon the edge of the lens and anterior portion of the vitreous humour; these are called ciliary strice, or pro- cesses. On its outer surface are seen the cihary nerves and long arteries; next come the veins of the choroid, vasa vorticosa; internally to them the short ciUary arteries, which, by subdividing, form a beautiful network, named tunica Buyschiana; next to this is the tunica pigmenti, which secretes on its inner surface the pigmentum nigrum, in some animals termed the tapetum. The ciliary stria, or processes, are very numerous, from seventy to eighty in number, alternately long and short, and conjointly named corpus cihare. They are somewhat triangular in shape, and having pigmentum nigrum depo- sited upon them, when removed from the vitreous humour, they leave a radiated appearance. The retina, as it is termed, consists of three membranes, the outer of which, in apposition with the choroid, is the tunica Jacobi; the middle one, the real expansion of the optic nerve, the tunica nervosa; the inner one is the tunica vasculosa retina:. The extent of tlie retina anteriorly is not