TETANUS. 725 In the fifth, or that of cicatrisation: from debility, or effusion into one of the cavities, most frequently the head, or from organic disease of the thoracic or abdo- minal viscera. A patient, who has suffered from an extensive burn, especially if young or advanced in life, can seldom be pronounced out of danger until cicatrisation has been coDipleted. Tetanus sometimes appear during the treat- ment of a burn, and most frequently about the period of the separation of the sloughs. ON TETANUS. Tetanus is a spasmodic contraction of the muscles, principally of voluntary motion, attended with permanent tension, and rigidity of the parts affected, in which it differs from ordinary spasmodic affections. When the tetanic affection is confined to the muscles of the lower jaw, the disease is named trismus or locked jaw, but when more extensive is termed tetanus. When the body is bent forwards, it is called emprosthotonos, back- wards, opisthonos, and to one side, ^jZewrosMowos. Tetanus is divided into the acute and chronic. The first is the most dangerous form, and most frequently met with in this country; the last is not so fatal. Tetanus is also divided into the traumatic, or that arising from a wound, and idiopathic, or that induced without any obvious cause. Traumatic tetanus is that most usually met with in temperate climates. Any form of wound may produce it, but it more frequently follows lacerated wounds, and particularly those impUcating fasciae or tendinous structures, as in the palm of the hand or sole of the foot. The particular state of the wound seems to have no effect on the supervention of the disease, as it has appeared in all conditions, even when the wound has presented a most healthy appearance. Many conceive that laceration of some of the nerves of the part has an influence in producing tetanus, but the point is not decidedly esta- blished. The period too of the supervention of the disease after the receipt of the injury is exceedingly variable; in one case it made its appearance immediately,