119 MCSCLES OF THE BACK. Transverse processes of three or four superior dorsal vertebrae, and as many inferior cervical. Ins. Inner and back part of the mastoid process. Use. To extend the neck, carry the head backwards, and incline it to one side. CoMPLExus. Or. Transverse and oblique processes of three or four inferior cervical and five or six superior dorsal vertebrEe. Ins. Close to its fellow, into the occipital bone, between its two transverse ridges. A part of this muscle is by some men- tioned separately, underthe name oi Biventercervicis, on account of being fleshy at each extremity and tendinous in the middle. Use. To carry the head back- wards, fix, or rotate it. Fifih Layer. Sem-spinaus colli. Or. Extremities of the transverse processes of five or six superior dorsal vertebra. Ins. By four heads into the spmes of the second, third, tourth, and fifth cervical ver- tebrae. Use. To bend the neck backwards, and incline it to one side. Semisfinalis dohsi. Or. By five or six tendons, from the transverse processes of the dor- sal vertebi-ae, from the fifth to the eleventh. Ins. Extremity of the spmes of the two inferior cervical and three or four superior dorsal vertebra;. Use. To extend the neck and back, and incline it to one side, and to support the trunk. Rectus capitis posticus iu- JOH. Or. Prom the spinous process of the second cervical vertebra. Im. Below the trajisverse ridge of the os occipitis. Use. To bend the head back- wards, and rotate it. Rectus capitis posticus in- NOK. Or. Posterior part of the atlas. Ins. Occipital bone, behind the foramen magnum. Use. To draw the head back- wards. Obliquus capitis dtfehiok. Or. Spinous process of the second cervical vertebrae. Ins. Exti-emity of the trans- verse process of the atlas. Use. To rotate the atlas and head on the vertebra dentata. Obliquus capitis superior. Or. Upper part of the trans- verse process of the atlas. Ins. Occipital bone, between its transverse ridges, posterior to the mastoid process. Ise. To incline the head to one side, and carry it a little backwards. SiM Layer. MULTIFLDUS SPDf^. Or. Pirst fasciculus arises from the spine of the vertebra dentata, and is inserted into the transverse pro- cess of third, each successivelv m a similar manner down to the last which arises from the spine ol the last limibar vertebra, and 13 inserted into the false trans- verse process of the sacrum. Use. To support the spine, bend it backwards and lateraUy and rotate the vertebra on each other.