SURGERY. 720 endeavours to remove the calculus. The injury thus done is most frequently fatal. Wounds of the cul-de-sac of the peritoneum, the vasa deferentia, vesiculee seminales, or ureter.—These accidents occur from prolonging the incision too far backwards. Wounds of the peritoneum is usually fatal, from inducing peritonitis. Division of the ureter is always fatal from the extravasation of the urine that takes place into the cellu- lar tissue of the pelvis. The operation of lithotomy proves/a^ctZ from— Peritonitis.—As this frequently succeeds the operation, it should be carefully watched ; and any symptoms, such as pain on pressure above the pubis, should at once be treated by the application of leeches, and, if necessary, by general bloodletting, and the use of calomel and opium. Inflammation of the wound, neck of the Madder, and bladder.—This occurs when much force or violence has been used in the removal of the stone. Disease of the bladder may supervene, even when the operation has been most skilfully performed, in cases where the viscus has been diseased before the operation. Extravasation of urine in the cellular tissue of the pelvis, causing extensive sloughing of this structure. This accident occurs, either from the wound in perineo not being sufficiently large ; from the urine not being allowed a free exit after the operation, in consequence of placing the patient in an improper position, or applying dressings unnecessarily to the wound, or from a wound of the ureter. Diffuse celhdar inflammation.—is an erysipela- tous inflammation of the cellular tissue of the pelvis, ter- minating in partial sloughing, and the formation of matter in the cells of the cellular tissue. It is attended with a low irritative fever; is exceedingly obscure in its symp- toms, and insidious in its progress. The high operation, or that above the pubes, and the recto-vesical operation of lithotomy are now, it may be said, wholly abandoned. They may be performed as directed for tapping the bladder above the pubes or through the rectum; and are still more exposed to the obiections already stated, as applicable to these operations. When calculi form in the female bladder, they may be ' removed by dilating the urethra, or dividing the canal to-