598 SURGBBY. On examining a fistula, the external orifice, if it should exist, will be found small, circular, and possessing a shghtly fungous appearance, and is in general concealed in the folds of the anus; its circumference is mdurated. There is some, but not much pain on pressure. The dis- charge generally comes on at intervals, that is, the canal, from its opening being partially closed, becomes filled with matter, and, on evacuating tbe fseces, this is suddenly discharged. By introducing a probe the extent and direc- tion of °the fistula will be ascertained; generally it reaches to a short distance within the anus; sometimes it extends to a considerable distance along the side of the rectum. Ihe chief cause of the continuance of fistula in ano is the irrita- tion kept up in it by the action of the sphincter am, and consequently the division of the fibres of this muscle is necessary in the operation for the cure. The treatment of fistula in ano consists in laying open the canal, so that its cavity may communicate throughout with that of the rectum. The operation is performed as follows: Place the patient, if a male, on his hands and knees, if a female, on her side; introduce a probe, so as to ascertain the extent and direction of the fistula with- draw this, and pass up the P^obe-pointed bistoury, having previously introduced the forefinger of the left hand into the {•ectum, push tbe extremity of the bistoury into the mtestine, and on It place the end of the finger in the rectum; draw down the nstrument thus supported cutting through the waU of the sinus into the rectum. The cavity of he sinus being laid open is to be filled with dossils ot lint, pas ed iZlt from^he rectum, so as to prevent union of the edo-es of the wound, and cause the cavity to fiU up by granulations; If there should be a number of sinuses, fhey are to be laid into one. In some cases, where the fistula extends high up, we cut through the ower part of the sinus only: the fistula will afterwards heal up. n consequence of the peritoneum on the anterior, he hsemorrhoidal arteries on the posterior surface of e rectum, it is not safe to cut higher than as far as tbe fineer will reach without difliculty. Abscesses connected with diseased spine, or sacrum, or scirrhous contraction of the rectum, phthisis puln^o^f or other organic afiections, sometimes burst by the side of