705 AMPUTATION. removed, the arteries secured, and the tendons and nerves cut short, the flaps may be brought together and dressed. Chopart has suggested removing part of the foot at the articulation, between the os calcis and os astragalus behind, and the navicular and cuboid bones in front. The projection of the os naviculare on the inner side of the foot guides us to the articulation. Two flaps are made, one from the dorsum, the other from the sole of the foot, as in Hey's amputation. These partial amputations of the foot are objected to by many, from the violent inflammation that frequently results from exposing so extensive an articulating surface. In Chopart's ampu- tation there is much risk of opening into the ankle-joint. The stump, too, is not found so useful as might be imagined, as the gastrocnemii not being antagonised by other muscles, draw up the os calcis, and thus force the anterior part of the stump against the ground. Sir A. Cooper preferred sawing through the bones without regarding the line of articulation. Partial amputations of the foot may be practised from before backwards, so as to remove one or more of the metatarsal bones, and if necessary the adjoining tarsal bones. Two other amputations of the foot have been pi'oposed by Mr. Syme and Mr. T. Wakley. Mr. Syme's operation is resorted to when there is disease of the astragalus or calcis, or articulation of the ankle-joint, and consists of removing all the bones of the foot, and detaching, by the saw or bone-nippers, both mal- leoli, making a small flap in front, but a larger one from the skin of the heel, and keeping the parts together by means of sutures. Mr. Wakley's operation is intended to preserve as much of the foot as possible, with the hope that it may be more available than when all the bones are removed. It consists in removing the os calcis, astragalus and lower parts of the tibia and fibula, by lateral and transverse incisions, and subsequently keeping the parts in situ by interrupted sutures; a case thus treated by him at the Royal Free Hospital appears to have been eminently successful. Amputation of the «m.—The arm is amputated rather by the circular or flap operation. The steps of the opera- tion do not differ from those recommended for the removal 30 §