ANATOMy. 276 and where this serous membrane is continuous with the lining mucous membrane of the genital organs. The canal of the Fallopian tube is small near the uterus, but increases a little as it approaches the morsus diaboli; through it the ovum passes into the uterus from the ovary. The ovary is attached on each side to the fundus of the uterus, bv a round fibrous impervious cord, the ligament of the ovary about two inches in length. The ovaria resemble the testes somewhat as to size and shape; they are more irregular than these, and often present cicatrices on their surface. The ovary is covered externally by peritoneum, beneath which is a strong, fibrous capsule, analogous to, but not so dense as the tunica albuginea: within these, united by firm cellular tissue, named stro7na, and vessels, is a number of vesicles, the Graafian vesicles, which contain the ova. These Graafian vesicles vary much in number, from fifteen to thirty, and sometimes more ; they vary also in size, those on the surface bemg the largest. . . Each Graafian vessel is now described as contamnig an albuminous liquid, and a round little body, which is the real ovum, surrounded by two membranes, the external one vascular, the internal one, named the ovi-capsule, presenting an internal granular surface. When a Graafian vesicle is ruptured, its contents find their way into the uterus by the Fallopian tube, and its place is supphed by a new deposit, which, from the colour assumed, is named corpus luteum. Each little real ovum is said to have its proper mem- brane, membrana pellucida, containing the yolk ; this yolk composed of granular matter, contains t]i& germinal vesicle, in which is found, by the aid of the microscope, an opaque spot, named macula germinitiva. . , ,, j , The female organs are chiefly supphed with blood by branches from the internal iliac, viz., the vaginal and uterine. The latter, as also the uterine veins, become much enlarged during pregnancy. The ovaries are supplied by the spermatic arteries, which send branches to the uterus also, and are much enlarged in pregnancy. The nerves are derived from the sympathetic ganglia, and from the sacral plexus.