DIGASTRIC OR SUPRA-HYOID REGION. 307 temporal bone on the inner side of the mastoid process, passes above the transverse process of the atlas, resting on the rectus capitis lateraHs muscle; it then passes had.wards, becomes super- ficial close to the outer edge of the trapezius muscle, and ascends in the scalp on the posterior surface of the cranium, where it terminates in numerous branches, which supply the region of the scalp and anastomose with the artery of the opposite side, the posterior aural and temporal branches. It is here accompanied by branches of the great occipital nerve. The occipital artery lies deep, except near to its termination; it is at first concealed by the sterno-mastoid, stylo-hyoid, and digastric muscles, and the lower margin of the parotid gland; above and behind this, it IS covered by the trachelo-raastoideus, splenius capitis, and some- times by the complexus; it here crosses the occipital attachments ot the posterior recti and superior oblique muscles. In the scalp it IS superficial, and may be I'elt during life The first branch given ofl^ from this artery is the sterno-mastoid, Hut which occasionally comes oflF separately from the external carotid; where it crosses the internal jugulir vein, it sometimes sends off a posterior meningeal artery, which ascends along the internal jugular vein, and enters the foramen lacerum posterius to supply the dura mater. Between this and its course in the scalp it of t£5 ""f'^"^ '^'•.^f Jies to the surrounding muscles; some of these anastomose with branches of the vertebral artery, others tll JTf °' ^"-^ anastomose with rlZtv , . transversahs colli, transversalis humeri, and run. down the neck, between the spinous and transverse pro- cesses under the muscles, to anastomose with the profunda cenMcis branch from the subclavian. piuiunaa From the superficial course of the occipital artery in the scalp it is n7LnTlliZi:''°'^''' ""'"'^ by ligature, if prfssure be foUowiiT""^'"^ ^^'•^ti'i the Arteriapharynrjea ascendens. This artery, from the denth ,t „,i • u cranmm, between tlip nhm-vnv o„ i • t ''""''"•s ine base of the the veriebral column ami Inl^i^"'^ ^ which they anastomose withC^a tl i, V"™' parts from the labial and internal mSua?;. "^"'''^ '° ''''''