DESCEIPTTON OF THE TISSUES. 425 of a large number of small transparent fibrils, each of which is about ^-^^-^oth. of an inch in diameter; these, by- interlacing and ci-ossing one another, give it that appear- ance from which it derives its name. Cellular tissue is (like the other structures) developed from cells, and is readily reproduced when destroyed by any cause. It is very sparingly suppHed with blood-vessels, and no nerves have been found distributed to it. It is the connecting medium for all the other tissues, and may be named variously, according to its situation, as subcutaneous, sub- mucous, subserous, intermuscular, &c. Fibrous Tissue.—This structure is one that is most useful on account of its mechanical properties. It appears to bind together the various parts of the human body, either by connecting one part with anotlier lilce a jcord, or by enveloping or sending processes between different portions, and thus by its firmness keeping their relations complete. The leading forms in which it is found in the human body are as tendon, ligament, fibro-cartilage, white and yellow fibrous tissue, and the fasciee. Fibrous tissue is formed by a number of minute fibres, chiefly parallel to one another, and but rarely interlacing; with these are mixed up a few nucleated fibres. The fibrous tissues are very sparingly supphed with blood-vessels and nerves; no lymphatics have been satisfactorily traced in their sub- stance. Fibrous tissues are slowly repaired after accident or injury. Yelloiv Elastic TrnMe.—This structure is found in the hgamentum nuchse of quadrupeds, and in the spinal liga- menta subflava of man. The fibres forming this substance run somewhat parallel with one another, but, in addition, anastomose and interlace with one another in a very intimate manner. The elasticity of this substance is owing almost entirely to the mechanical arrangement of its fibres for when much stretched, it breaks with a very slight additional Cartilage.-'Yh\s substance is generally divided into two classes—the ordmary white cartilage, and the yellow, or t^ssu jaune. /fo the former belong the cartilages that cover the articular extremities of the bones, as weU as the cartilages of the nbs the ensiform cartilage, and the prin- cipal cartilages of the larynx. To the latter belong the