INFLAMMATION. 453 chronic, ■which is different in its symptoms, and requires a modified plan of treatment. In this, the apparently increased vascularity is less than in the acute form, the vessels being of a pale red colour; the pain is more of a dull heavy character, and the temperature is but little raised. The swelling is the only symptom as well .marked in this as in the acute inflammation. The treatment consists in the moderate abstraction of blood, and the use of gently stimulating applications to the part, which have the effect of increasing the tone of the vessels. Cold applications are to be preferred to warm, in this form of inflammation, as the latter cause a relaxation of the vessels of the inflamed part, and thereby conduce to the con- tinuation of the disease. We have said that the symptoms and results of inflam- mation are much modified by the structure of the parts' affected : the following are examples of this fact. When inflammation is seated in the skin, it usually becomes extensive, because the surface is unbroken. Its colour is very florid, it raises the cuticle in the form of vesications, which usually contain serum, but also in some cases, fibrine ; a serous effusion is also produced by it into the subjacent cellular tissue. In the cellular membrane, inflammation produces an effusion, which obliterates or fills its cells; if it proceed, it occasions suppuration and produces an abscess. In still more violent forms, the cellular membrane sloughs, as m phlegmonous erysipelas. Inflammation of fascicB is generally extensive, from the large surfaces they present. When matter forms beneath them, it should be let out immediately to reheve the sufferings of the patient and prevent the sloughing of these structures. Inflammation ot muscles is known by the spasmodic twitchings which attend it. Tendons are not prone to inflammation ; when inflamed they frequently perish, and are cast off from the fleshy part of the muscle. Arterites ^v^ rarely inflamed, except after wounds on the apphcation of hgatures. When the lining membrane becomes inflamed, it sometimes extends as far as the cavities of the heai^. The large veins are very Uable to WhPn^lTfl r inflammation of their lining nLmbrane. When inflamed, the veins become Uke hard and broad