678 StJllGERY. Stocking. If an ulcer be present it may be dressed with very dilute nitrate of silver solution or lotio nigra, sulphate of zinc solution, &c., over which straps of adhesive plaster are to be applied, from the ankle to within a short distance from the knee; the limb is then surrounded by a bandage. Bv these means conjoined with strict rest, attention to the bowels and diet, the occasional application of leeches it necessary, the ulcer will be made to heal. _ Various plans have been adopted from time to time tor causin'- the obliteration of the diseased veins, and thus to throw "the venous circulation on the deeper and more healthv vessels. The first of these is tying the saphena veS on the inner side of the knee. This is accomphshed bv cutting down on the vein, and applymg the ligature around it Pressure on the vein in this situation has been recommended with the same view, as also the application of eristic, and cutting out a part of the vessel. AH these ?en^eTes are both dangerous and doubtful; they have often given rise to extensive inflammation of the vein and thus caused the death of the patient: and in the most successful cases have only produced temporary benefit Sr B S-odie recommended the division of the diseased b anc'hes, (selecting a cluster of the largest and most S i vir ces,) by the introduction of a pecuhar knife. ?e'embUng a sha?p-poiuted bistoury, but sharp on its ro;v^x edle; this is passed between the skm and the veUrand the latter are cut across whilst the knife is ;Srawn: this plan is liable to the same objectK,n^ t1,P other though pot in an equal degree. A still more recent plan is tSat'of dividing the branches m the lower nart of the lee, or on the dorsum of the toot. ^ Hons Velpeau has recommended the passing of a needle beneath the varix, and then securing a ligature ■round it so as to cause the obliteration of tbe vessel; S prac ice has been followed with more success than the pUns before mentioned. Inflammation, however, is apt to attack the leg, and must be actively combated. Caustic potsh has been used over the course of the vein generally on the uiside of the thigh, just above the knee^ £ inflammation excited causes an obstruction to he JJeoi blood in the vessels, and thus may efl-ect a cure. £ use has sometimes been followed by fatal phlebitis.