537 DIRECT INGUINAL HERNIA. way through it, yet not strong enough to prevent its descent altogether; consequently the intestine carries with it the lymph, and thus the hernia receives from it an immediate covering or cyst, within the tunica vaginalis. Other views are entertained, and different descriptions given, of this species of hernia. It is thus described by Mr. Hey of Leeds:—"The intestine in tliis case had forced its way into the scrotum, before the tunica vaginalis had formed its adhesion to the cord, but after its ab- dominal orifice was closed; under which circumstances it brought the peritoneum down with it, forming the hernial sac, contrary to what happens in hernia congenita, where the intestine descends before the orifice in the tunica vaginalis has closed, and consequently has no hernial sac but that tunic." Mr. Miller, in his last edition of ' Practice of Surgery ' gives the following description of it:—"The communication between the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, and that of the abdomen, is shut at its upper part; but the former cavity IS unusually spacious, and ascends high in the cord con- fining more or less serous fluid. Behind this a hernia descends, invested by the ordinary peritoneal sac. In cutting down on such a tumour, we divide first the anterior portion of the tunica vaginalis, then the posterior and after this, appear the sac and its contents." The operation does not differ from that recommended tor congenital hernia. Both congenital and encysted hernia may first present themselves in adult life. INGUINAL HERNIA IN THE FEMALE occurs much less frequently than in the male, owiu- to the smaller size of the inguinal canal. It descends into the labium, and is in general small. It is almost always reducible Should it become strangulated, the oneratfon wd not differ essentially from that 'ecommendedTr he male. The lower part of the peritoneal bag. according to Sir A. Cooper, contains only water. The mr\^inr.. i 11 not be prolonged much into the labium " '^'""'^ DIRECT INGUINAL HERNIA'. From the deficiency in the external oblique tendon described lu obhque inguinal hernia, under T name "f 23 §