ES.TEKNAL AND INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERIES. 297 this point the external carotid artery is accompanied by two veins, one on each side. In its third stage, the external carotid artery lies deep in the substance of the parotid gland, through which it ascends obliquely outwards as it approaches the zygoma. It is here crossed by the portio dura nerve', which, escaping from the stylo-mastoid foramen, passes through the gland from behind forwards and outwards, separated from the artery by a portion of the gland, and by the external jugular vein. The nerve here forms a plexus, the pes anserinus, from which branches pass off to supply the side- of the temple, face, and neck. The external carotid may be tied without difficulty, either in its first or second stages, by making an incision, about two and a half or three inches in length, through the skin, platysma, and fascia, extending from beneath the lobe of the ear, downwards and inwards, towards the cornu of the os hyoides ; by this the digastric muscle will be exposed: this guides us at once to the artery which may be brought into view, either above or below this muscle, with very little dissection. This proceeding mav be requu-ed in performing operations about the ramus of the law where some of the branches of the external carotid are, or are likely to be, wounded; as also in cases of hajmorrhage from those . vessels, or from deep ulceration or sloughing about the iaw or ' mouth: we need hardly remark, that the artery should be tied between the heart and the origin of the branch from which the hiemorrhage proceeds. The external carotid artery is sometimes wounded in attempts at suicide: here we should dilate the wound, if necessary, and tie both ends of the bleeding vessel In Its third stage, the external carotid is nearly precluded from interference, except the extirpation of the parotid gland Before proceeding to this operation, it is judicious to secure the trunk of the common carotid. wuuk. The branches of the external carotid artery are ten in number, and are divided into the anterior, posterior ai d S. ;;?.;"' ^"-"^^^^"^S; the ««^mo/branche; a'e Superior thyroid, Lingual, Labial, The posterior are also three, the Occipital, Posterior auris. Muscular. 1S§