316 EEGIONAL AND SUUGICAL ANATOMY. foramen, and is lost in the muscles and integuments of the lower lip, in which it anastomoses with the inferior labial and coronary arteries. Before entering the dental foramen, the inferior dental artery gives off a few branches: some of these proceed to the pterygoid muscles and mucous membrane of the pharynx; one runs in the mylo-hyoid groove of the lower jaw, accompanied by the nerve of the same name, to the mylo-hyoid muscle. In the canal, branches ascend from it which, perforating the roots of the teeth, are lost in their supply. In removing one or more of the teeth of the lower jaw, the inferior dental artery, or some of its branches, may be injured; and should the hajmorrhage prove troublesome, a dossil of lint, or piece of sponge, or even wood of a conical form, should be introduced into the wound, or (which is still more effectual) the tooth may be replaced, and allowed to remain for some time. In a case lately recorded, gutta jiercha was introduced into the hollow, and by pressure was found to be very successfully apphed. In the second stage the internal maxillary artery gives off muscular branches, which are as follows : Arteries pterygoidecB, irregular in number, are distributed to the pterygoid muscles. ArtericB temporales profunda, two in number, enter the temporal fossa, in which they ascend, close to the bone, under cover of the temporal muscle, one near the root of the zygoma, the other near the malar bone. They supply the temporal muscle, and anastomose with the middle temporal arteries. Arteria masseterica, generally a single vessel, passes outward through the sigmoid notch of the lower jaw to supply the masseter muscle. Arteria buccalis supplies the buccinator muscle. All these arteries ai-e accompanied by branches from the inferior maxillary nerve. In its third stage, or whilst in the pterygo-maxillary fossa, the internal maxillary artery gives off the following : Arteria maxillaris superior, or superior dental, runs forwards on the superior maxillary bone, giving off several branches to supply the alveolar processes, gums, and the lining membrane of the antrum; one branch, the largest, perforates the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone, runs forwards within the bone, supply- ing twigs in its course to all the roots of the teeth. Ai-teria infraorbitalis, the largest of the terminating branches, runs upwards and forwards, traverses the infraorbital canal from behind forwards, accompanied by the infraorbital nerve, sends branches upwards to the orbit and downwards to the antrum, anterior teeth, and escapes througli the infraorbital foramen upon the face, between the levator labii superioris and levator anguli oris muscles: it here spreads out into several branches, which