160 ANATOMY. modes of correspondence and connection between the two sides. The corpora pyramidalia, as before mentioned, pass first through the pons varolii, their first ganglion of increase, which they leave considerably augmented, as the crura cerebri. They then pass into the optic thalami, their second (the inferior cerebral) ganglion of increase; from this they pass into the corpora striata, or superior cerebral ganglion of increase, where they receive their last aug- mentation, before they are evolved into the cerebral hemispheres. The corpora olivaria pursue a similar course to the pyi-amidalia; but, in addition to passing through the other ganglia of increase, the major part of their fibres go through an oval nucleus situated in their centre, called the olivary ganglion or corpus dentatum, which thus forms their first ganglion of increase. The corpora restiformia spread out into the cerebellum, without having any relation with the pons, and after passing through their single ganglion of increase (the corpus rhomboideum) are evolved into the cerebellar hemispheres. , . . i j- ,^ • The former parts, which from their situation and distri- bution have been caUed the diverging fibres, include all those parts which are evolved into the cerebral hemispheres. The next which we shall speak of are the convergmg fibres, or those which bring all the parts of the brain into com- munication and common consent of action with one another. They are the following: . The corpus callosum, or great commissure, connects the two hemispheres of the cerebrum. • The anterior commissure connects the corpora striata. The middle or soft commissure, connects the optic thalami. The posterior commissure also connects the optic thalami at their posterior part. , • v The pons varolii connects the cerebral hemispheres in the same way as the corpus callosum the cerebral. These are all transverse commissures, and connect the hemispheres one with the other. The fornix is an antero-posterior commissure, connecting the anterior with the posterior parts of the cerebrum.