298 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. The ascending branch is Pharyngea ascendem. The terminal branches are three, the Tranverse facial, Temporal, Internal maxillary. Six of these arise from the first stage of the artery, namely, the superior thyroid, Ungual, labial, occipital, muscular, and pharyngea ascendens, one only in its second stage, the posterior auris, and the remaining three in its last or third stage. Arteria thyroidea superior is, in general, the first branch of the external carotid artei-y, from the internal surface of which it arises, opposite or a little below the cornu of the os hyoides. It first ascends inwards, then curves downwards and forwards, and descends to the inner side of the common carotid artery, accompanied for a short space by the superior laryngeal nerve, which lies posterior to it, towards the thyroid gland, in which it is chiefly lost. The principal branches given off in this course are the following: Ramus hyoideus, a small branch which runs forwards, just beneath the OS hyoides, supplying the muscles and soft parts in that region. The ramus laryngeus runs downwards and inwards, accompanied by the superior laryngeal nerve, and enters the larynx, either through an opening in the alaof the thyroid cartilage, or through the thyro-hyoid ligament, to supply its muscles and mucous membrane. Ramus crico-thyroideus. This branch is more important from its course than from its size; it sometimes arises from the preced- ing; it runs inwards, and anastomoses with the one of the opposite side, over the crico-thyroid ligament. This branch is much endangered in performing the operation of larj-ngotoray. Ramus thyroideus. This is the largest branch, and apparently the continuation of the trunk of the superior thyroid artery. It descends beneath the sterno-thyroid muscle to the thyroid gland, where it is lost, anastomosing with its fellow, and the inferior thyroid artery. From the relations which the s\iperior thyroid artery and its branches bear to the larynx, they are frequently divided in attempts at suicide. Should such be the case, the external surface should be exposed, and the bleeding vessels at once be secured with the ligature. Although a fatal hemorrhage is not lilccly to proceed from any of these branches, yet the bleed- ing, if allowed to continue, is a source of constant annoyance to