404 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. The posterior tibial nerve terminates like the artery in the sole of the foot by dividing into two branches, the internal and external plantar nerves. Besides numerous branches to the surrounding muscles and integuments, the posterior tibial artery gives off the foUowing important branch. Arteria peronea arises from the posterior tibial artery, a short distance below the popliteus muscle, runs obliquely downwards and outwards towards the fibula, descends along the internal margin of this bone, close to the inter- osseous membrane, and a little above the ankle di\ades into its two terminating branches, the anterior and pos- terior fibular arteries. The anterior passes forwards through the interosseous membrane, and joins the branches of the anterior tibial artery; in some cases this artery supplies the place of the anterior tibial artery on the dorsum of the foot. The posterior descends behind the external malleolus, and terminates by sending branches to the surrounding parts, and by anastomosing with branches from the pos- terior tibial and malleolar arteries. The posterior tibial artery divides between the origins of the abductor pollicis into the internal and external plantar arteries. Arteria plantaris interna, smaller than the externa,, runs forwards along the internal and inferior surface of the tarsus, under cover of the abductor polHcis muscle, as far as the great toe, which it supphes; several branches also proceed from this artery to the surrounding muscles and integuments, which anastomose with the branches from the external plantar artery. Arteria plantaris externa pursues a curved course in the sole of the foot, so as to form an arch, called the plantar arch, the convexity of which is directed forwards and outwards, the concavity in the contrary direction. From the bifurcation of the posterior tibial, the external plantar artery passes first downwards, forwards, and out- wards, between the first and second layer of muscles in the sole of the foot, as far as the base of the fifth meta- tarsal bone ; it then turns inwards and upwards, in nearly a transverse direction, and terminates in the cleft, between the first and second metatarsal bones, by anastomosing with the deep branch of the anterior tibial artery. In this