428 PHYSIOLOGY. Voluntary muscles on a casual inspection are seen to be formed by a number of more or less coarse parallel fibres; these, on inspection by a microscope, are seen to be formed by a number of parallel fibrillse. Every muscular fibril is enveloped in a peculiar sheath of its own, called sarcolemma, and as they do not anastomose or join each other, the muscular fibrillae extend from one end of the muscle to the other. On examination with the microscope, voluntary muscular fibre is seen to be composed of a number of circular parallel discs, ranged one above the other, con- nected together by an intermediate softer substance, thus presenting an appearance of transverse lines, hence called striated muscular tissue. The diameter of muscular fibres averages about 4^oth of an inch, but in males the fibres are somewhat larger, and in females somewhat smaller than the above. Muscles are freely supplied with blood, and with nerves. It has long been a doubt whether muscles contract from an inherent irritability existing in themselves, or whether they do so only from the influence of the nerves vsupplied to them; but the latter hypothesis is the one generally entertained at the present time, and the experiments that have been made to endeavour to prove the contrary, are extremely unsatisfactory. The fibres of involuntary muscle differ very strikingly in their structure from the others, being much less (about g^i^oth of an inch) in diameter, and much shorter. They are devoid of transverse striae, and hence called non-striated. They contain nuclei, and interlace freely with one another, and have no distinct sarcolemma. They are found in all the viscera of the body, except the heart. The muscular fibres of the heart are peculiar in arrange- ment and structure. Like those of the voluntary muscles, they are marked with transverse striae, but are somewhat smaller in size. Like those of the intestines, &c., they anastomose with one another, and have no true sarco- lemma. They intermix most intimately with one another in the substance of the heart. Nervous Tissue.—A few words have been previously mentioned on this subject in the anatomical department. (^Fide Anatomy of Nervous System.) Arteries, on superficial inspection, appear to consist of