461 MOKTIFICATION. the cuticle is always found detached, by forming a vesi- cation, and the skin underneath of a dark red colour. In some patients the disease is slow and long iu passing from toe to toe, and from thence to the foot and ankle; in others its progress is more rapid and exceedingly painful. Its course is preceded by a dark red appearance of the skin. As the parts mortify, they become dry and hard, from the evaporation of the fluids. The constitutional symptoms are those of debility, there is great want of sleep, and in general low muttering delirium. The treatment consists in the exhibition of bark and opium internally, and the free use of wine. The parts should be covered with folds of lint, moistened with cam- phorated spirits of wine, and the limb wrapped in cotton. But httle can be done with local or indeed with constitu- tional remedies. Leeches have been recommended by some on the supposition that inflammation of the arteries is the principal cause of the disease. In most cases, the disease spreads upwards along the hmb, and the patient sinks, before any attempt is made to arrest the mortification and throw off the gangrened parts. In some, a line of demarcation forms, and the mortified portion is separated from the living. The first appearance of a line of demarcation is indicated by the parts above the dark red colour, just alluded to as indi- cating the spread of the gangrene, presenting a bri<^ht healthy red colour; where the two colours touch the line of demarcation is found. At first, the distinction between them IS not very apparent, but soon becomes sufficiently mamfest. Absorption now begins to take place in the skin, on which a hne of ulceration is soon formed This proceeds deeper and deeper until the whole limb is removed ihis is, mdeed, the process observed by nature in throwing off aU mortified parts. The most highly-organised mrt°s are the most rapidly separated ; thus, thJ s4 ^usSef and blood-vessels, are sooner detached than hrfasch' ligaments, and bones; these are the last to be detached' not separating, in some cases, for many weeks or even months, and often requiring the interferencee of h^ surgeon mLV'The's n:"^"p'h ^et rid of the otfS acS of tb^^ ? . f'^^f Pf^t^ i« accomplished by the action of the absorbents, which act on and remove the