SURGERY. 622 suppuration may be caused by foreign bodies, or a loose spicula of bone lodged in the wound, or by the too long continued use of poultices and fomentations. If the former be present, they should be removed, the latter should be at once discontinued, and simple or astringent dressing applied, the patient's constitution being sup- ported by the exhibition of bark and a generous diet. Mortification appears on the third or fourth day. If par- tial, the sloughs separate, and the wound heals by granu- lation. Should it extend, so as to threaten the life of the patient, amputation is to be performed, if not contra- indicated by the state of the sufferer. The limb should be removed at some distance from the extensively morti- fied parts, as the grangrene extends further in the soft parts, and particularly in the cellular tissue beneath the integuments, than in the skin. If possible, a joint should intervene. Such amputations rarely succeed. If the gangrene appear to have been the result of a debili- tated constitution, not of the local injury, amputation should not be performed. Secondary hcemorrhaffe.—This proceeds from sloughing of some of the arteries of the limb, and generally requires amputation. When it proceeds from this cause, it does not appear for some days after the accident. Bleeding, however, may take place immediately on the receipt of the injury, from laceration of the vessels. Many cases of compound fracture present themselves, which call for immediate or primary amputation. These are, first, where the bones are much comminuted, and the soft parts are at the same time extensively destroyed. Secondly, when the principal vessels and nerves of the limb are injured. Thirdly, when the age and constitution of the patient lead us to suppose that he may be unable to support the difficulties attending the union of the fracture. , . •, , , Comminuted fractures are those in which the bones are broken into several portions. Their treatment and termi- nations depend on their being simple or compound. We need not, therefore, discuss them particularly. Comph- cated fractures are those which arc complicated with some other injury, as a wound of the principal artery of the limb, or an extension of the fracture into a joint.