COMMON CAROTID ARTERIES. 293 side the vein, as it descends to join the subclavian, diverges from the artery so as to leave an interval between them, and form, -with the subclavian artery inferiorly, a vascular triangle, in which the par vagum and cardiac filaments of the sympathetic nerve descend to cross the subclavian artery, and in which, more deeply seated, the vertebral ai'tery ascends. On the left side, on the contrary, the vein, as it descends to join the left subclavian, approaches the left carotid artery, so as to overlap it a little. This difierence in the relation of the internal jugular vein adds much to the difficulty of securing the carotid and sub- clavian arteries on the left side. In the superior or superficial stage, the common carotid artery lies in the anterior superior triangle of the neck; it is here covered only by the skin, platysma, and cervical fascia and sheath, on the, outer surface of which is the descendens noni nerve; but, occasionally, this nerve is met with within, or even behind, the sheath. To the inner side of the artery, in this stage, are the larynx and pharynx, superior thyroid artery, and superior laryngeal nerve. To its outer side are the par vagum and internal jugular vein; behind it, the sympathetic nerve, and the longus colli and rectus capitis anticus major muscles. In . the centre of the neck the carotid artery is slightly over- lapped by the lateral lobe of the thyroid gland. Should this become enlarged, it is possible that it may be mistaken for an aneurism of the vessel. This is not the only tumour which may lead to error, numerous lymphatic glands accompanying the artery in the neck, particularly on its outer side; these are extremely liable to chronic enlarge- ment, and may, under such circumstances, should they approach the artery, be mistaken for an aneurism. As the common carotid arteries are supported posteriorly bv the tor a short time against this structure during life, in cases of haemorrhage, from the vessel itself or from any of i s principal branches, until more effectual means shall have Len adop ed fo restraining the hemorrhage. It has been also suggested to com fern'theTurtit' of\7 1 'SZ' so a^o" lessen the quantity of blood sent to the brain; the practice is • Lme E tm„:^""^,'''•''"^'^'"S *° avoid trth Z'^oaTebBSm fh^'LS"'""^'^' ^""^ ^•^"^ -'-'^'"^