624 SURGERY. patient on a full generous diet, as a certain degree of inflammation is indispensable to the healing of the fracture. 2d. From a diseased or peculiar state of the con- stitution.—Persons of a scrofulous or otherwise weak state of the constitution are most liable to non-union of a fracture. In these a generous diet and good air will be found beneficial. Where there is a syphilitic taint in the constitution, a fracture will often not unite. Mercury should be given, when union will in general take place. The exhibition of mercury will often cause a fracture to unite even where no syphilis is present. It has been stated, that fractures do not unite in pregnant women: such is not the case. 3d. Where the limb has not been kept at res^. —This frequently is the cause of non-union. The limb being re- peatedly moved during the first few weeks, the disposition to union has been lost, and is with difficulty reproduced. If proper means be not resorted to, a false joint will form in the limb, in which the ends of the bones become rounded, covered with a hard deposit, and enclosed by ligaments. Before such false joint has formed, we should, by moving the fracture, break up any hga- mentary adhesions that exist, and reproduce the inflam- matory action; by which, and the subsequent use of tight bandages and splints, union may at length be accomplished. Should this not succeed, the plan recom- mended by Dr. Physick of New York may be tried, viz., a seton may be passed between the broken ends of the bones, and allowed to remain for a few days, or until sufficient inflammation has been excited, when it is to be with- drawn It has been recommended also to cut down on the fracture, and saw off the ends of the bones. This is very questionable practice, as a compound fracture is formed, which may be followed by dangerous if not fatal consequences. Amputation has been occasionally practised, but few cases will be met with in which it is called for. The humerus is more frequently the subject of non-union than any other bone. Non-union occasion- ally foUows a compound fracture; here there can be no serious objection to the sawing off the ends of the bones, as a compound fracture already exists: before doing so a