386 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. 1. Arteria epigastrica superficialis, small in size, arises from the fore part of the femoral artery, about half an inch below Poupart's ligament, runs forwards, pierces the fascia lata, turns upwards over Poupart's ligament, and ascends beneath the integuments towards tlie urabihcus -where it terminates. It is almost impossible to avoid this artery in the operation for the relief of either stran- gulated inguinal or femoral hernia; when wounded it should be secured with the ligature, if the haemorrhage be inconvenient. 2 and 3. Arterim pudicce swperficiales vel externa are generally two small branches, which arise near the pre- ceding, and run inwards, one superior perforates the fascia lata, crosses Poupart's ligament and the chord, and is distributed to the lower part of the abdomen and upper part of the genital organs; the other inferior perforates the fascia lata lower down, and is distributed particularly to the scrotum or labia. These arteries become much enlarged in any long-continued disease of the testis or scrotum, and will, if divided in any operation for he relief of such disease, require the application ot the ligature. They may also be divided in the operation for the relief of strangulated inguinal or femoral hernia. 4 Arteria circumflexa ilii externa, smaUer than the preceding, arises near them; it runs upwards and out- wards, pSraUel to and beneath Poupart's hgament, towards the crest of the ilium, where it is lost in the integuments and neighbouring muscles. i „ 5. Arteria profunda femoris. This, nearly as large as the continuation of the femoral artery arises from its ex- ternal and posterior part about one inch and a half oi two inches below Poupart's ligament, but much more ire- quently above thai below this point, ««t infrequently as high up as even above the ligament ; from this point th? profunda first passes outwards, then turns inwards and backwards, passing behind the femoral ai-tery, and separated from it by the femoral and profunda vems, and some small nerves, and then descends along the inner side of the femur, nearly parallel to but at «ome distan behind, the femoral, and a little below the middle of ti e thieh terminates m a muscular branch. In this course Jh? profunda artery first lies on the psoas and il.ac