228 ANATOMY. They are invested by the pleura pulmonalis, which is more delicate than the membrane lining the ribs. The two layers of pleura are in close contact, having between them only a very minute portion of fluid to lubricate them in a healthy state, but no particle of air. If by accident or design an aperture is made into the bag of the pleura, the lung collapses from the atmospheric pressure, or more probably contracts, and the breathing becomes diflScult and painful. The colour of the lungs varies with the age. In the in- fant it is red; about twenty, it is bluish; and in more advanced age bluish-grey, with dark spots dispersed upon them. The shape of the lungs is conical; the apex projects a little above the first rib ; they are flattened anteriorly, con- vex posteriorly : the surface in contact with the pericardium is concave, particularly of the left lung; they are longest posteriorly, in the perpendicular direction. The lungs posteriorly present an obtuse margin, ante- teriorly a thin margin, which is short and irregular. The anterior and inferior margin of each lung is veiy acute. There is a deep arched hollow in the lower part of the left lung for the apex of the heart. The right lung is largest, and slightly extends highest in the neck. It is divided into three lobes, but is shortest, in consequence of the situation of the liver. The lungs have a spongy feel, and crepitate with the pressure of the finger ; they are composed of the bronchi, with their ramifications, terminating in air-cells, and lined by a mucous membrane, the pulmonary and [bronchial arteries and veins, nerves, absorbents, and glands, con- nected together by cellular tissue, and invested by their general covering, the pleura. The weight of the two lungs is estimated at about 40 ounces. On examining the minute structure of the lungs, we find them to be composed of a number of lobules connected together by interlobular cellular tissue. This cellular tissue is extremely delicate, often infiltrated with serum or air, as in emphysema; and gives passage to the minute lymphatic vessels. The lobules do not communicate with each other, laey are attached to the ramifications of the bronchi and vessels,