ANATOMY, 194 Some anatomists now describe three splanchnic nerves, under the names great, small, and smallest. According to them, the splanchnicus minor or small, above de- scribed, is given to the great solar plexus; and the smallest splanchnic derived, according to them, from the last thoracic ganglion, and a twig from the eleventh, descends to the renal artery, under the name nervus renalisposterior. In the abdomen we find the lumbar ganglia, four or five in number, by the sides of the lumbar vertebrse, and to the inner edge of the psoas muscle. They are connected together by filaments, and are connected with the lumbar nerves and plexus, and send filaments anteriorly to the aorta, which enter into the composition of the abdominal, aortic, and lumbar plexuses. The sacral ganglia are four or five on each side, with an azygos terminating one ; they unite together by filaments, and communicate with the contiguous spinal nerves. Anterior filaments from them, and also from the lowest lumbar ganglion, form the hypogastric plexus, which supplies nerves to the adjacent viscera; viz., the bladder, vesiculse seminales, uterus, vagina, and rectum. ANATOMY or THE ORGANS OF THE SENSES. THE EYE. The eye is placed within a bony cavity, named the orbit. Each orUt is formed by seven bones; and as three ot them are common to both orbits, there are eleven bones only entering into the two. The orbit is pyramidal in form, with the base anteriorly, and directed a little outwards; the apex backwards and inwards. Probes passed through the axis of each orbit, into the cranium, will pass througli the foramen lacerum orbitale superius, and meet upon the sella turcica. The roof of the orbit is formed by the frontal hone and ala minor of the sphenoid bone; the floor bv the malar, superior maxillary, and palate bone; the outer wall by the malar and sphenoid; and the inner wall by the nasal process of the superior maxillary, the lacrymal bone, the ethmoid, and frontal bones. The orbit contains the globe of the eye, with numerous