491 DISEASES OP THE EYE. less sharp than natural, and is thrown forwards towards the cornea; the pupil becomes contracted, and vision is seriously impaired. The aqueous humour also frequently presents a muddy appearance. These symptoms are at- tended with an obtuse, heavy, deep pain in the eye, ex- tending towards the back of the head; intolerance of light, and constitutional disturbance. Idiopathic iritis is best treated by the strict observance of the antiphlogistic regimen, followed by mercury to salivation. Belladonna should be applied freely, so as to prevent any adhesion of the iris to the capsule of the lens. Iritis may destroy or injure vision, by causing adhesion of the iris to the cap- sule of the lens or cornea; by the eflfusion of lymph, closing the pupil; or by the formation of matter in the anterior chamber of the eye (hypopion). This last termi- nation is of frequent occurrence. A few days after the commencement of the disease, if the inflammation be not arrested, one or more tufts of lymph, of a whitish yeUow colour, appear on the anterior surface of the iris, ad- vance to suppuration, and an abscess is thus formed. This soon bursts^ and the matter is discharged into the anterior chamber. Specific Iritis is that form of iritis which appears in company with some specific disease of the constitu- tion, such as syphilis, chronic rheumatism, and gout. Of these, syphilitic iritis is the most frequent; it appears as one of the earliest of the secondary symptoms of syphilis, generally in company with the papular eruption, pains in the bones, and sore throat, but may be found along with any other eruption. The principal points of diflerence between this and the idiopathic iritis are as fol- low: the pain in syphilitic iritis is usually not so great as in the idiopathic form; it is also liable to exacerbation being most severe at night; the aqueous humour is more Ihe tufts of the lymph which appear on the iris are more of a reddish or orange colour, and form more rapidly The treatment is the same as in idiopathic iritis. Iritis some times appears after the immoderate use of mercury or Tn debilitated constitutions: here the exhibition of Sp' Tere^ binthni^e in half drachm doses is found useful. The tur- pentine IS best given in almond emulsion. Iritis appears