REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. 368 tlie internal and external. The internal are small, and are distributed to the walls of the pelvis and its contents; the external are large, pass out of the pelvis, and are lost in the external soft parts. The internal branches are the ilio-lumbar, lateral sacral, middle hsemorrhoidal, vesical; and in addition, in the female, the vaginal and uterine arteries. 1. Arteria ilio-lnmbalis arises from the external and posterior part of the internal iliac artery, runs upwards and outwards, in front of the lumbo-sacral nei've, and behind the common iliac artery and vein, psoas and iliacus internus muscle, and anterior crural nerve, to the iliac fossa, where it terminates in numerous branches, some of which ascend to the psoas and quadratus lumborum muscles, and anasto- mose with the lumbar branches of the aorta, whilst others pass outwards to the crest of the ilium, and anastomose with the branches of the interna circumflexa ilii and gluteal arteries. A branch of the ilio-lumbar artery enters a foramen of the inner surface of the os ilium, and supplies the bone. 2. Arteria sacri lateralis passes from the inner side of the internal iliac artery downwards and inwards, in front of the pyriform muscle and sacral nerves, and to the outer side of the sympathetic nerve, and terminates in supplying branches to the sacral nerves in the interior of the sacrum and the pyriform muscle, and in anastomosing with the branches of the middle sacral artery near the coccyx. 3. Arteria hcBinorrhoidalis media passes downwards, forwards, and inwards, along the posterior and lateral surface of the rectum, on which it is lost, anastomosing superiorly with the branches of the superior hseraorrlioidal artery from the inferior mesenteric, and inferiorly with the inferior or external hsemorrhoidal branches of the internal pudic. The rectum thus receives a supply of blood from three sources, the inferior mesenteric, the internal iliac, and the internal pudic; the largest branches of these hsemor- rhoidal arteries are met with on the posterior surface of the rectum, but these soon break down and surround the intestine, as far as the anus, with numerous vascular ramifications, some of which, inferiorly, pass forwards to the bladder, prostate gland, and vesiculae semiuales, in the male, and to the vagina in the female.