730 SURGEEY. colourless tumour, -which is soft and elastic, if there be no dense covering over it, such as a fascia ; but if so covered, it presents a tense swelling. At first it is free from uneasi- ness, but by degrees a severe acute pain shoots occa- sionally through it, then more and more frequently, and at length becomes incessant, for a considerable time the tumour is smooth and even, but afterwards it projects irre- gularly at one or more points, and the skin at those places becomes of a livid red colour, and feels thinner. In this situation it easily yields to pressure, but instantly bounds up again. Small openings, now form in these projections, through which is discharged a thin bloody matter. Almost immediately after these tumours burst, a small fungus protrudes like a papilla, and this rapidly increases both in breadth and height, and has much the appearance of carcinomatous fungus, the granulations being however softer and more exuberant, and frequently bleed pro- fusely. The matter is thin, and exceedingly fetid, and the pain becomes of the smarting kind. The integuments for a little way around these ulcers are red and tender. After ulceration takes place, the neighbourmg glands swell, and assume exactly the spongy quahties of the primary tumour. If the patient still survive the disease in its present advanced progress, similar tumours form in other parts of the body, and the patient dies hectic. Fungus hEematodes appears sometimes to be caused by external violence, but often arises idiopathically. llie only treatment for the disease is its mechanical removal. It is a more constitutional disease than cancer, and but few cases occur in which the disease does not reappear after an operation. . A carcinomatous tumour, when cut into, presents a striated appearance, having a central hard mass, from which bands pass off in every direction, as radii from a centre. Between this fibrous structure, are numerous cancer cells. Tlie fungoid tumour is composed of an irregular mass of brain-like matter mixed with clots of blood, intersected bv a few fibrous bands, sometimes containing cysts witli fluid, and wlien small may be surrounded by a distinct coat. When soft cancer attacks the eye, the first signs are observable in the posterior chamber; an appearance like that of polished metal presenting itself at the bottom ot