140 ANATOMY. caused by its being invested by the araclinoid. On the dura mater,. near the vertex, but seldom before twenty years of age, are seen several small hard pale glandular- looking bodies, called Pacchionian glands ; their use is unknown. The arteries supplying the dura mater are, anteriorly from the ophthalmic ; in the middle the arteria meningea media, and parva from the internal maxillary; and pos- teriorly some small branches from the ascending pharyngeal, vertebral, and occipital arteries. The veins of the dura mater empty themselves into the neighbouring sinuses. The dura mater serves as a channel for the passage of the nerves from the cranium, and invests some of them at their exit. The dura mater is divisible into two layers, the external one of which is the thickest and always remains closely attached to the bone, the internal one forming several folds in the cranium, in the margins of which run the sinuses. The principal of these folds are the falx major, the falx minor, and the tentorium. The falx major (so called from its resemblance m shape to a sickle) is of a semilunar shape, its greater edge being superior and attached to the bones of the cranmm, its lesser inferior and free ; the anterior end invests the cnsta gaUi, the posterior or larger end terminates in the tento- rium. As it separates the two hemispheres of the bram from one another, it prevents sudden compression of either from a rapid motion of the head. The tentorium runs in exactly the reverse direction ot the falx major, for instead of being vertical it is horizontal, and instead of running from before backwards it runs from one side to the other. It separates the posterior cerebral lobes from the cerebellum, and protects the cerebellum from the pressure of the cerebrum. In some animals it is osseous. , The falx minor runs from the foramen magnum to tlie tentorium, finally spreading out into the latter. Its size is very small, as compared with the others. Besides these, the dura mater forms a series of bridges, as they may be called, over all of those sinuses that do not run in the folds just mentioned; the most remarkable of these is that over the cavernous sinus.