374 REGIONAL AND SUEGICAL ANATOMY. chord and abdominal muscles; one considerable brancli, the cremasteric artery, descends on the chord which it supplies. On account of the relation of the epigastric artery to the abdominal rings, between which it lies, we should divide the stricture, in oblique inguinal hernia, upwards and outwards, but in the direct species upwards and inwards; and when we are in doubt as to the form of the hernia, directly upwards. This vessel may be wounded in the operation of tapping an ovarian cyst, or of para- centesis abdominis, according to the old method. 2. Arteria circumflexa ilii runs upwards and outwards from the outer side of the external iliac ^rtery beneath the tendinous white line, formed by the junction of the trans- versalis fascia and fascia iliaca, to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium; it then winds round the inner edge of the crest of the ilium, between the internal oblique and transversaUs muscles, in which it terminates, by sending off numerous branches which supply the ab- dominal muscles, and anastomose with the branches of the lumbar, ilio-lumbar, and gluteal arteries. The external iliac artery is tied in cases of femoral aneurism high up, or of hsemorrhage from the femoral artery, after it has been tied for the cure of popliteal aneurism. It may be also secured, according to the distal operation, for the cure of an aneurism of its cardiac extremity. There are two operations performed for this purpose, one recommended by Mr. Abernethy, the other by Sir A. Cooper. Mr. Abernethy's operation is performed as follows: , , Make an incision, four inches in length, over the course of the artery; this will be nearly perpendicular to the centre of Poupart s ligament, the skin, fascia, and external oblique having been cut through, a director is to he passed beneath the lower edge of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, and these then may be divided; the transversalis fascia being now cut through, the peritoneum is to be raised inwards, out of the iliac fossa, when the artery is exposed: the fascia propria being now carefully divided, the aneurism needle is to be passed from ^^^thln out- wards, avoiding the genito-crural nerve, and the vessel secured at some distance above the origins of the epigastric and circumflexa ilii arteries. , In Sir A. Cooper's operation, a semilunar incision is made, about four inches in length, having its concavity directed upwards and inwards towards the umbilicus, and extending from a little above and internal to the anterior superior spinous process of the iliura, to the outer side of the external abdominal ring; by this, the skin, fascia, and external oblique tendon are divided, the inguinal canal is now exposed and the lower edge of the internal oblique