INFEBIOn, EXTREMITIES. 381 have been now abandoned from the great danger of venous in- flammation following any wound of the vessel. The nerves met with in the superficial fascia are chiefly branches of the anterior crural nerve which perforate the fascia lata a little below Poupart's ligament, and descend principally on the anterior and outer part of the thio-h towards the knee. Two or three branches of the genit°o- crural nerve also will be found taking this course. Numerous glands are lodged in the groin, and there form the inferior or vertical set of inguinal glands; they are divided into two sets, a superficial and deep: the superficial are four or five in number and are enclosed in a capsule formed by the superficial fascia; the deep are three or four in number and lie beneath the fascia lata, close to the femoral vessels ; one of these generally closes up the femoral ring: through these glands the absorbents of the lower extremity pass to join the pelvic and lumbar glands. The two sets of glands communicate by means of absorbents passing from one to the other.' These glands are arranged in the vertical direction, whilst the superior set ranged along Poupart's ligament are placed transversely. In a practical point of view it is of much importance to distinguish these two sets of glands, as the superior alone communicate with the absorbents of the genital organs. The inferior set, on the contrary, communicating with the absorbents of the lower ex tremity, become inflamed in cases of wounds or diseases affectinir the foot, leg, or thigh; hence, if we meet with enlargement of these we should carefully examine the limb, and not attribute the swelling to any disease of the genital organs. Mistakes of a very serious nature have frequently arisen from overlooking this important distinction. The inguinal glands are liable to scrofulous and other indolent swellings; from their position in the trroin they may be mistaken for a femoral hernia, or from having pulsation communicated to them by the femoral arterv which lies directly beneath them, they may be confounded with femora aneurism. Abscesses, or ulcerations of these glands, have been known to make their way into the interior of the femoral arte, v and thus give rise to a serious hEemorrhafre reouir nri ti,,! operation of tying the external iliac artery for iS'supJreSi. On raising the superficial fascia, (which may be done with much facility, except opposite the cribriform fascia owing to the connection which exists between these two structures and the numerous vessels passing in and out at