727 MALIGNANT DISEASES. some weeks, and is frequently followed by recovery, the disease gradually disappearing. When fatal, it js so in general from the supervention of some organic affection, especially of the lungs. The muscles of the upper extre- mity are- seldom affected, except in the chronic form. The remedies recommended for tetanus are numerous; they are bleeding, in its various modes, purgatives, chloroform, opiates, antispasmodics, the warm and cold bath, stimulants, mercury, amputation, division of the wounded nerves, tobacco in the form of fermentations, and enemata, &c. All these have been tried, and most frequently with- out effect. Tobacco seems to have a powerful influ- ence in allaying the severity of the spasms. In the chronic form most of these remedies will be found useful, if a judicious selection be made, and that remedy resorted to which is most applicable to the symptoms, the age, and constitution of the patient. The introduction of a piece of wood between the teeth is always judicious, as it prevents injury of the tongue, so likely to occur during the spasms. Trismus nascentium is a tetanic affection, which attacks children shortly after birth, chiefly in hot countries. The disease is ascribed by many to an irritable state of the divided umbilical chord. It is generally fatal. ON THE MALIGNANT DISEASES. The diseases which are known as malignant, are Carci- noma, Medullary sarcoma, Melanosis, and Gelatiniform Cancer. Carcinoma, or Cancer, is a disease of advanced life, although occasionally met with in young subjects. It is divided into scirrhus or occult cancer, and ulcerated or open cancer. These are but different stages of the same disease. •Cancer usually attacks three structures in the human body, namely, secreting glands, skin, and mucous membrane. It is not confined to these, but may commence in almost any other structure, or extend to it by absorption or by gradual increase. Of the secreting glands, those most usually affected are the mamma in the female and the testis in the male. The lymphatic or absorbent glands are never afi'ected primarily with cancer. A case of