REGIONAL AND SUBGICAL ANATOMY. 348 serratus magnus, and subscapularis muscles, and anasto- moses with the terminating branches of the suprascapular and posterior scapular arteries. The posterior branch passes backwards, accompanied by a part of the nerve, through a triangular opening bounded in front by the long head of the triceps, below by the teres major, and above by the edge of the subscapularis, to which it sends branches, winds round the inferior costa of the scapula, and gains its dorsum, where it terminates iu the infra- spinous fossa, by sending brandies to the infra-spinatus muscle, and anastomoses with the terminating branches of the suprascapular artery. When operating in the axilla, this artery should be particularly avoided. The free anastomosis of the vessels about the axilla, between the scapular, thoracic, intercostal, and mammary arteries, is of much service in restoring the cu'culation when the subclavian or axillary artery has been tied. The arteria circumflexa posterior proceeds backwards from the axillary artery, close to the origin of the subsca- pularis artery, through a quadrilateral space, bounded above by the teres minor, below by the teres major, \\\ front by the neck of the humerus, and behind by the long head of the triceps; it then winds round the neck of the humerus, and is lost chiefly in the deltoid muscle, where it anastomoses with the anterior circumflex artery, and with branches from the superior profunda and superior scapular arteries. This artery is accompanied throughout, by the circumflex nerve, a branch of the brachial plexus. In fracture of the neck of the humerus, and dislocation mto the axilla, this artery may he ruptured, and may pour out a large quantity of blood into the axillary cavity. A portion of the coaRula, passing between the broken ends of the bones in Irac- tures, is said to have the effect of preventing their reunion. In these accidents the corresponding nerve is frequently "iJU'ed, giving rise to a temporary or permanent paralysis of tlie deitom muscle, varying according to the extent of the injury. The arteria circumflexa anterior is smaller than the preceding, and frequently arises from it, or from tlie sub- scapular artery; it passes forwards and outwards, then winds round the anterior surface of the neck of tlie humerus, close to the bone, and behind the coraco- brachialia and biceps muscles, supplying branches to the