168 ANATOMY. malar bone, and passes into the temporal muscle, communicating ■srith the deep temporal nerves; the malar branch also perforates the malar bone, and is distributed upon the upper part of the clieek, under the name of subcutaneus mala, commuuicating with filaments of the portio dura. ^ 2. Two descending branches, communicating with Meckel's ganglion. 3. Two dental branches, of which one perforates the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone, to supply the molar teeth; the other filament runs superficially to supply the gums. 4. Anterior dental, for the supply of the bicuspid, canine, and incisor teeth. It passes down in a canal in front of the antrum, and communicates with the posterior dental ner?e. Its terminating infra-orbital filaments communicate with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic and facial twigs of the portia dura, upon the cheek. The inferior maxillary nerve, consisting of two separate portions, viz., the tliird trunk of the ganglion and the anterior root of the fifth, which had not entered into the structure of the gangUon, but lay beneath it towards the outer side, passes from the cranium by the foramen ovale of the sphenoid bone. The two portions unite as soon as they pass through the foramen, but appear to separate almost immediately, in the form of two trunks. . The superior and smallest one gives off the following branches: 1 The deep temporal branches, two in number, distributed to the temporal muscle. They perforate the muscle, and communicate with the superficial temporal nerves. . • 2. The buccal branch, supplying the buccmator muscle and muscles of the cheek. . , ^ ., , 3 The pterygoid branch, chiefly to the mternal pter>-goid muscle. 4. The masseteric branch, for the supply of the masseter muscle. Thus we observe that the muscles^ of mastication are supplied by the third division of the fifth pair. The inferior trunk of the inferior maxillary nerve divides into three branches, the gustatory, the temporo-auricular, and inferior dental. 1. The gustatory nerve descends, first between the two pterygoid muscles, next between the internal pterygoid muscle and ramus of the lower jaw, then arrives upon the upper surface of the myloliyoia muscle, and outer surface of the hyoglossus, accompanies there tlie Whartonian duct, runs over the sublingual gland, and uhjmateiy arrives at the tip and sides of the tongue, to be distributed to the napilla: In its course it unites with the inferior dental nerve, and also with the chorda tympani nerve, which attends it for a short