tTAEICOSE VEINS. 677 at first, but in the more advanced stages, the varicose vessels become exceedingly painful and the limb swollen and cedematous on using the slightest exertion in the erect posture. The patient is thus often deprived of the use of the limb for some time. In this condition the veins become thick, hard, and tortuous, being much increased in length and in diameter. Opposite the valves which become ruptured, lymph is poured out so as to form numerous hard, painful, and knotty tumours in the course of the limb. Lymph being also effused into the sur- rounding cellular tissue, the veins are often matted to the integuments. The mode of formation of a varicose vein is as follows ; the circulation being impeded in the vessel it becomes over distended with blood, which stretching the coats of the vein destroys the action of the nearest valve; in conse- quence of this, the one immediately beneath having an ad- ditional weight to support gives way, and so it proceeds till all the valves are destroyed. The circulation of the blood in the veins being thus retarded, they become filled with dark blood, inflame, and become thickened in their coats, so that when cut across they resemble an artery. As the disease advances, ulcers form on the limb in the course of the distended veins, and are known by the name of varicose ulcers, being produced in one of the two fol- lowing ways; first, a varix forms in a particular part of the vessel, and gradually increases in size, forming a tumour; the integuments covering the tumour become inflamed and thinned, ultimately give way, when a profuse discharge of blood takes place from the opening which soon degenerates into an ulcer: 2dly, the patient receives a slight blow or scratch, as by the heel of the opposite foot stnkmg the diseased extremity; inflammation attacks the wound, and an ulcer forms. A varicose ulcer is usually situate on the inner side of the limb, a little above the internal maUeolus; it is oval in shape, with its long axis from above downwards • and a thin serous discharge issues from the ulcer- the sur- rounding skin is of a dark red colour; although not usually painful, It becomes exceedingly so after much exertion. Ihe treatment of varicose veins consists in supportim? the distended vessels by means of rollers or a laced