546 SURGER'X. the epigastric artery curves to its outer side. In it, we frequently meet with a lymphatic gland. Here, then, is the unprotected part of the abdomen, through which a femoral hernia descends into the thigh. As the hernia escapes through the ring, it pushes before it the peritoneum, wliich forms the hernial sac, as also the fascia propria, which, together with the lymphatic gland in the ring, affords but a feeble resistance; the latter is soon pushed aside, the former becomes one of the cover- ings of the hernia, which, descending into the thigh beneath Poupart's ligament, rests on the pectineal fascia, behind the falciform process of the fascia lata. It soon arrives opposite the cribriform fascia. Its further descent is prevented by the convexity of the saphena vein, by the attachment of Burns's ligament to the front of the femoral vessels, and by the motions of the thigh on the pelvis. Meeting with little resistance from the cribriform fascia, it changes its course, turns forwards, bursting through the fascia, or dilating one of the apertures in it, most fre- quently the saphenous opening, and hes beneath the superficial fascia. It soon changes its course a second time; it now turns upwards, ascends over Poupart s ligament, and finally rests, above this ligament, on Scarpa's fascia of inguinal hernia, which alone separates it from the tendon of the external obhque muscle. It is here then covered by the integument, superficial fascia, fascia propria, (alias fascia transversalis, alias septum crurale of Cloquet,) and hernial sac. Some authors multiply the coverings of femoral hernia, describing at least sLx from without inwards, viz., commo7i integument, superficial fascia, cribriform fascia, femoral sheath, septum crurale, 2iQ.di peritoneum. Sir A. Cooper states that a femoral hernia descends in the crural sheath, or sheath of the femoral vessels, ihis is a point of dispute that can alone be settled when the extent of the crural sheath is decided. Most assuredly it does not descend in that part of the sheath which contains the femoral vessels (and which should be alone ca led tlie crural sheath), as a distinct septum always exists between the hernia and the femoral vein. j j • We have stated that the femoral ring is bounded in- ternally by Gimbernat's ligament. This is the third in-