406 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. from the bone, the fingers may be passed between the two layers of muscles, and the posterior tibial artery may be felt pulsating beneath the fascia; this being cut through, the aneurism needle is to be passed from without inwards, taking care to avoid the posterior tibial nerve and the venaj comites. From the great depth at which the artery lies, and its proximity to the hone, much difficulty is exiierienced in effecting this object; so much so, that it has been found necessary to pass a curved needle into the wound, and thus secure the artery; this plan is evidently objectionable, as the nerve may be included with the artery, or wounded by the needle. Mr. Guthrie recommends the posterior tibial artery to be tied by cutting through the gastrocnemu muscles from behind, to the extent of several inches if necessary. Between the internal malleolus and os calcis, or a httle above this point, the posterior tibial artery is comparatively superficial, and may be tied by making an incision, somewhat semilunar in shape, over the course of the artery, and nearly midway between the two bonv eminences mentioned, but a little nearer the ankle, xhe integuments and fascia, which is here of great strength, having been cut through, the artery will be soon brought into view in company with its nerve and venaa comites. Pass the aneurism needle from behind forwards, to avoid the nerve and secure the If above the ankle, the posterior tibial artery may be secured by making a nearly straight incision parallel to and along the inner side of the tendo AchiUis. It is in this situation that the pos- terior tibial artery is secured in cases of wounds of the plantar arteries As we have elsewhere observed, when either the palmar or plantar arch is wounded, the practice is (not as in other cases of wounded arteries, when the wounded vessel is cut down upon • and secured,) to tie the artery leading to the injured vessels, as the cutting into the palm of the hand or the sole of the foot, amongst so many tendons, nerves, and vessels, would most pro- bably be followed by a dangerous inflammation. \^ hen the pos- terior tibial artery is affected with aneurism in the upper third of the leg, the popliteal or fen^o'-^l artery should be secured. The perone;i artery lies so deep, and is so secured behind he fibula that it is almost precluded from any interference on the part of the surgeon. Mr. Hey relates a case, in which he sawed out a portion of the fibula in order to tie the vessel; such practice is not to be recommended. Both the posterior tibial and peroneal arteries are frequently injured by spicute of bone m fractures ot the tibia or fibula. In these cases, if there be no actual wound, the limb becomes distended, and mortification of tlie leg tre- quently results. The opinion of surgeons is dmded as to tne practice that should be adopted in such cases; some advocate me amputation of the limb, while others contend that thc^ tying oi the popMteal or femoral artery may be resorted to. ^ either ot these operations should be performed where only a moderate quantity of blood is effused, as it may probably be only a branch