660 SUKGEEY. according to their mode of formation, their situation, or other pec .liarities. Tlie most important of these are: 1st. Into the true and/aZse aneurism.—T'?'Me aneurism is that in which the tumour is formed by all the coats of the artery, which, having gradually yielded, form the coverings of the aneurismal swelling. False aneurism is that in which the internal and middle coats have given way, and the coverings of the aneurismal swelling are formed by the cellular coat of the vessels or surrounding cellular substance, or both, united by the adhesive in- flammation. As either of these forms of aneurism may be met with in any part of the body, they have been divided,—2dly, into internal and external aneurisms. Internal aneurisms are those which form in any of the cavities of the body, as the thorax and abdomen, and generally afiect the aorta, or some of its principal branches. External aneurisms are, on the contrary, confined to the vessels of the ex- tremities, the neck, or external part of the head. As the blood may or may not be confined in a cyst, aneurisms are divided,—3diy, into circumscribed and dif- fused aneurism. Circumscribed aneurism is that in which a distinct sac exists, which confines or circumscribes the blood. In diffused aneurism the blood is, on the contrary, diffused, or extravasated in the surrounding cellular tissue, in consequence of a wound or rupture of aU the coats of the artery, or the bursting of the aneurismal sac, so that a circumscribed may ultimately become a difi'used aneurism. . 4thly. Traumatic and spontaneous aneurism. — The former of these divisions is produced, as the name implies, by the wound of an artery, the latter without such, appearing either spontaneousfy, or from some very trifling cause, and in almost all cases preceded by a diseased state of the vessel, which has given rise to the aneurismal tumour. Although these divisions of aneurism may appear tedious, they will be found by the student here- after to be exceedingly useful, as they establish an arrangement of the disease in his mind, especially as the nature, the formation, and the situation of the disease have much effect on its diagnosis, treatment, and ultimate