10 ANATOMY. Behind these the intervertebral notches are seen, the upper one deep for the vertebral artery and suboccipital nerve; the lower one deep for the exit of the first cervical nerve. The plates are rounded, and unite posteriorly without forming a spinous process. The canal in the dry bone is very large, but in the recent state is divided into two by the transverse ligament. The second vertebra, named also dentata or axis, is distinguished as follows: The body is longer perpendicularly, in consequence of being sur- mounted by the odontoid process, which is articulated anteriorly with the atlas, and posteriorly with the transverse ligament. This process terminates in an angular summit, to the lateral sm-face of which the moderator or check ligaments are attached. On the anterior surface of the body of this vertebra are two depressions, for the insertion of the longi colli. The transverse processes are short and not bifurcated. The superior articulating processes are circular. The inferior articulating processes are oval, and directed downwards, forwards, and a little outwards. The laminae are short and strong. The spinous process is short but broad, is bifurcated, and has a deep groove on its under surface. The upper notch is behind the articular process, whilst the inferior notch is in front of it. The seventh cervical vertebra is thus distinguished: It is of a large size. The spinous process is not bifurcated, but is long and projecting; hence this is named vertebra prominens. It has a foramen in the transverse process, smaller than in the rest. Its general character approaches to that of the dorsal vertebraj. The dorsal vertebrce are known by the following general characters: The bodies are heart-shaped, with the antero-posterior axis longest, deeper posteriorly than anteriorly, to produce the concavity of the spine towards the thorax, and are marked, laterally near their crura, by articular surfaces for the heads of the ribs. The transverse processes are long, and directed upwards and back- wards, and have, excepting the eleventh and twelfth, an articulating surface for the tubercles of the ribs. The articulating processes are perpendicular, the upper looking backwards and slightly outwards, the lower ones forwards and inwards. The laminai are broad, deep, and flat. The spinous processes are long, triangular, and grooved inferiorly to rest close upon those below them: they incline more perpendi- cularly, proceeding downwards as far as the fifth or sixth, and tlien begin again to become more horizontal.