ARTERIi'E ILIAC^E EXTERN.E. 373 are lost in the body and on the dorsum of the clitoris. It is much smaller in the female. The pudic artery is small before the age of puberty. The trunk of the pudic artery may be tied in its second stage by an operation similar to that recommended for securing the sciatic artery; our object should be to expose the spine of the ischium, where the artery will be found without fail. AUTERIiE ILIAC^ EXTERNA. The external iliac artery on each side proceeds from the bifurcation of the common iliac, downwards and outwards along the inner margin of the psoas muscle and brim of the pelvis, as far as Pouparfs ligament ■ it passes beneath this ligament a little to the pubic side of its central point and enters the thigh, when it assumes the name of femoral artery. In this course, the external iliac artery is covered by the abdominal muscles and peritoneum, and by a thin layer of fascia, named the " fascia propria" of the external Iliac artery, derived from the fascia iliaca, having to its inner side, and a little behind it, the external iliac vein • to Its outer side, and in close contact with it, the geuito- crural nerve; and still more externally, the anterior crural nerve lying imbedded between the psoas and iliacus in- ternus muscles. The external iliac artery gives off a few small branches to the surrounding muscles and ceUular tissue, and about lialt an inch above Poupart's ligament, the two following important vessels. ^^vviuj, 1. Arteria epigastrica proceeds from the inner side of the external iliac artery, first downwards and inwards then turns upwards and inwards, winding round the cul' de-sac of the peritoneum, ascends in ^he transversalis fascia, entei's the sheath of the rectus muscle, and he e terminates in numerous branches, which supply li s muscle and anastomose with the branches of the iiftei ni mammary artery. Soon after the epigastric nilerv JpI to ascend it crosses to the inner'sS "f" r^tS abdomiua ring, lying behind the spermatic chord i/ k here hooked round by the vns Le , • , ' descends, internal and'po tlior to if i"t:> T^"' 1'"^ here the artery gives off Leral bratll^s T^l^^