SURGEEY. 584 irritable state of the rectum. Some fever is also usually present. Leeches to the perineum, fomentations, the warm bath, and purgative medicines will generally remove the affection. Should the gland become much enlarged, retention of urine will be the consequence: here the introduction of the catheter becomes necessary. In some cases, and particularly in scrofulous subjects, all our attempts to remove the inflammatory symptoms are in- effectual ; they proceed to suppuration, which is indicated by the pain being dull and heavy, rather than acute, attended with shiverings and an accession of fever towards evening. If left to itself, the abscess will, most pro- bably, make its way into the urethra, but may burst in perineo. Should any urgent symptoms be caused by the collection of matter, the abscess should be opened in perineo. In more advanced life, the prostate gland is liable to a peculiar chronic enlargement, improperly termed scirrhus, for it is not malignant, neither does it present the fibrous structure of true scirrhus, nor ever degenerate into open cancer. One or both lobes may be afi'ected with this disease, but the left is more frequently attacked than either the right or the middle lobe. It is looked upon as a remote consequence of gonorrhoeal inflammation, but has been known to occur in individuals who had never suffered from that disease. Being a chronic affection, it is sometimes many years increasing, before it causes serious inconvenience'to the patient. At first there is some irritability of the bladder, as shown by frequent desire to pass urine, the stream of urine diminishes in size, and is with difficulty expelled, in many instances only dropping from the end of the penis; there is also a sense of fulness in perineo, and irregular pains about the neck of the bladder and rectum. As the disease advances, the difficulty of passing urine becomes greater, until com- plete retention takes place. This is seldom so urgent as retention of urine from gonorrhoea or stricture, as some urine in general dribbles away, which relieves the distended bladder. If the patient be examined per anum, the enlargement of the gland is easily felt. The eftccts of the enlarged gland on the urethra depend on the lobe or lobes affected: thus, if the left lobe be enlarged, the urethra is