STRANGULATED HERNIA. 559 ■will be obliged to submit to an operation for its removal. Nor can we expect otherwise. The constriction of the intestine produces inflammation of the parts protruded; they become swollen, and thus increase the constriction; the inflammation spreads to the interior of the abdomen, and all the symptoms of strangulated hernia set in. The treatment of this form of hernia consists in the judicious use of opening medicine, the administration of enemata, and the use of warm or cold applications to the tumour. The former of these act by relaxing the tension of the parts, the latter by condensing the air in the in- terior of the intestine. More active remedies can seldom be resorted to, as the patient is in general advanced in life. Nor are indeed the symptoms suflBciently acute to demand or to be benefited by bleeding or other violent remedies. STRANGULATED HERNIA. A hernia is said to become strangulated, wheu it is not only irreducible, but when it is so much constricted, that the circulation in the intestine or omentum is either im- peded or wholly prevented. Sir A. Cooper asserts that some portion of blood is still capable of being carried to the part by the arteries, but it cannot be returned by the veins. The symiptoms of a strangulated hernia commence with an abnormal tumour, with pain, increased on pressure, fol- lowed by a sense of dragging and pain about the region of the diaphragm, as if a cord were bound tightly round the upper part of the stomach. This is soon followed by eructation of air from the stomach and intestines. The patient is next troubled with vomiting. At first the contents of the stomach are evacuated, afterwards dark greenish bile; and, finally, if the stricture be on the lar^e intestine, faecal matter, which constitutes stercoraceoSs vomiting. Soon after the commencement of the strangulation the abdmneu becomes distended with air collected in the SVn /"^'fP'^i^f"!: the pulse is hard frequent, and incompressible. As the disease ad- vances, colicky pains appear throughout the abdomen. These are at first transient, but soon increase in strength