MUSCLES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITIES. 121 Use. To strengthen the joint internally, carry the arm back- wards, and rotate it inwards. Teees major. Or. Rough surface on the inferior angle of the scapula, below the infra spinatus. Ins. Posterior or inner edge of the bicipital groove, behind the insertion of the latissimus dorsi. Use. To draw the humerus downwards and backwards, and rotate it inwards. CORACO - BRACHIAilS. Or. Poiut of the coracoid process in common with the tendon of the short head of the biceps. Ins. Internal side of the hu- merus, about its middle, and by an aponeurosis, into the ridge leading to the internal condyle. Use. To adduct the arm, raise it, bring it forwards, and rotate it outwards. Biceps. Or. Short head, from the coracoid process; the long head, from upper edge of the glenoid cavity. Ins. Back part of the tuber- cle of the radius. Use. Pirst to supinate, then to flex, the forearm, make tense the fascia, and raise the arm. Brachialis anticus. Or. Centre of the humerus by a sUp on each side of the insertion of the deltoid, and from the fore part of the humerus as far as its condyles. Lis. Coronoid process of the ulna and the rough surface be- neath that process. Use. To flex the forearm on the humerus. Triceps extensor cubiti. Or. Long or middle head, from the lower part of the neck of the scapula and anterior portion of the inferior costa. External, or secojid head, from a ridge on the humerus, below the insei-tion of the teres minor. Short or third head, from a ridge below the insertion of the teres major, leading to the internal condyle, and from the internal inter- muscular septum. Ins. Olecranon process of the ulna, and the fascia of the forearm. Use. To extend the forearm, and cany the arm somewhat backwards. Forearm and Hand. Pronator radu teres. Or. Anterior part of the internal condyle, fascia of the forearm, intermnscular septa, and the coronoid process of the ulna. Ins. By a broad flat tendon mto the outer and back part of the radius, about its centre. Use. To pronate the hand, and to assist in the flexion of the forearm. Plexor carpi RADiiijs. Or Inner condyle and the inter- muscular septa. Ins. Base of the metacarpal bone of the index-finger. Palmarislongus. Or Inner condyle and fascia of the fore- arm. Ins. Annular ligament and palmar aponeurosis, near the root of the thumb. ^Je. To bend the hand to- wards the forearm, and make the fascia tense. Plexor carpi tjlnaris. Or Inner condyle, inner side of the olecranon, inner edge of nearly 6