THE EYE. 201 When the human lens is hardened by boiling, and pressed upon with force, it splits into three triangular portions, the bases of which are formed by the edge of the lens, and each of these is found to be composed of numerous concentric lamelte. In shape it is doubly convex : the anterior portion repre- sents a small segment of a large sphere ; the posterior one a larger segment of a smaller sphere, consequently it is most convex posteriorly. It is also covered by the hyaloid membrane, which at its edge separates into two layers, of which one passes in front, the other behind the lens. By this separation a space is left at the edge of the lens, .known as the canal of Petit; when inflated by a blowpipe it has a vesicular appearance. The vitreous humour, or corpus vitreum, which fills up the two posterior thirds of the eye, is perfectly transparent. It is contained in a number of cells, formed by processes of the hyaloid membrane, which also gives it a general covering. It is penetrated by branches of the arteria centralis retinae, and is excavated anteriorly for the lodg- ment of the crystalUne lens. The muscles contained in the orbit are the four recti and the two oblique muscles pertaining to the eyeball, and the levator palpebrse and tensor tarsi, which more strictly belong to its appendages. The levator palpebrce superioris arises from the under surface of the lesser wing of the sphenoid, about one eio-hth of an inch anterior to the optic foramen, it passes forw'ards and upwards to be inserted into the margin of the tarsal cartilage : it is the highest muscle of the orbit. Its name signifies its action. Immediately beneath and behind this muscle arises the superior rectus, which passes over the tendon of the supe nor oblique muscle to be inserted into the sclerotic coat of the eyeball at about two lines behind the edge of the cornea superiorly. A little below and somewhat internal to the last muscle arises the mperior ohli<iue. It passes, first forwards and inwards to curve around a little pulley of bone or cartiln..e attached to the orbital plate of tl/e fron'tal bone, Lm S point ! turns somewhat backwards and outwards to bo inserted into the sclerotic coat of the eve, after havin- * O 9ยง