METACARPAL BONES. Muscle attached to the Trapezoid Bone: Flexor brevis pollicis. The OS magnum is the largest of the carpal bones ; four of its surfaces are articular, two non-articular; the superior articular surface, called its head, is convex, and is received into a cavity formed by the scaphoid and lunar bones ; it is supported by a contracted part of the bone, termed the neck. The os magnum articulates with seven bones, the scaphoid, lunar, the second, third, and fourth metacarpal bones, the trapezoides, and the unciform. Muscle attached to Os Magnum : Flexor pollicis brevis. The OS unciforme is the second largest bone of the carpus, and occupies its inferior internal part; it is easily recognised by its hook-like process, whence it has received its name ; it has three articular surfaces, two non-articular. The hook-like process, turned forwards and outwards, concave externally, convex internally, gives attachment to the anterior annular ligament of the carpus, and some of the muscles of the little finger. The unciform bone arti- culates with five bones ; the lunar, the os magnum, the cuneiform, and the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones. Muscles attached to the Unciform Bone : Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Adductor minimi digiti. The bones of the carpus belong to the class irregular hones; their structure therefore is spongy, covered with a thin layer of compact tissue ; hence their great liability to caries ; they are developed from a single point of ossifi- cation, with the exception of the unciform, which pos- sesses two ; the OS pisiforme is not ossified till approaching puberty; it might be described as a sesamoid bone beine developed m the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris,'as the patella is in the tendon of the rectus. The metacarpal bones Rre five in number; they beW to the class of long bones, and may be divided each into a superior or carpal extremity, a body or shaft, and an inferior or phalangeal extremity. The Jlrst metacarpal bone is the shortest and strongest • Its phalangeal extremity or head is convex, quadrilaS' and marked with an articular surface, extending towards