ANATOMY. 164 NEHVES. The nerves are white medullary cords, necessary to sensation, motion, and all the functions of life. They are composed of very minute fibrillse, called nervous fibres, each fibre having its sheath, called neurileraa. These fibres are next bound together by their neurileraa, forming primary fasciculi. These primary fasciculi being bound together by cellular tissue to form secondary fasciculi, several of-which, aggregated together, form a nerve, which is contained in a strong fibrous sheath that keeps all its parts together, and to which the term neurilema is ordinarily applied. The ultimate nervous filaments are now considered as tubular, containing within their cavity a soft substance, which may be easily squeezed out from their cut ends. The ganglionic filaments have, to all appearance, no in- ternal cavity, they are considerably less in diameter than those of the cerebro-spinal system. There is considerable doubt about the termmation of the nervous filaments, some considering them as ending in loops, others thinking that they terminate in free ends, whilst some evidently terminate in ganglionic corpuscles or Pacinian bodies. We shall not be very far ofi' the truth if we consider each nerve as double ; its termmal end being a loop ; its originating end from two nerve corpus- cules. The origin of all the nerves of animal hfe being in the cerebro-spinal system, and that of the nerves of organic life in the ganglionic or sympathetic system. As far as can be ascertained, the sympathetic nerves communicate with one another by means of their gangha; but the cerebro-spinal nerves, though they often interlace, forming plexuses, never communicate one with another. Many of the cerebro-spinal nerves have enlarged portions, called ganglia. These, besides containing many inter- lacing fibres, have also several nerve or ganghonic cor- puscules in their interior, from which may be seen arising additional nervous fibres. The precise use of the gangha is, however, unknown. , The sympathetic ganglia are generally larger than tne cerebro-spinal, are contained in a fibrous capsule, are red in their colour (instead of white), and are very vascular.