OBLiaU£ INGUINAL HERNIA. 519 Near the ilium, Poupart's ligament is tbin and weak, but it increases much in density as it approaches the pubes. Its inferior margin, slightly concave, and di- rected somewhat forwards, gives attachment to the iliac portion of the fascia lata. To its superior edge are con- nected tlie external and internal oblique and transversalis muscles, and the transversalis and ihac fasciae. By some this hgament is described as a distinct structure. It is of use in strengthening the abdominal cavity inferiorly and thus preventing the protrusion of the viscera; it also affords attachment to muscles and fasciae, and protects the femoral vessels and spermatic cord. From its con- nection with so many fasciae, it is particularly necessary m all our attempts at the reduction of hernia, that Pou- part s ligament should be as relaxed as possible; this is best accomplished by bending the upper part of the body so as to relax the abdominal muscles, and at the same time flexing and rotating the thigh inwards, in order to relax the fascia lata; in some subjects it is very indistinct and can with difBculty be discovered during y1 A few tendmous fibres, which some consider as derived from the external obhque muscle, decussate with those just descnbed; they are the intercolumnar bands. They arise from near Poupart's ligament, ascend inwards, form „' curves, convex towards the pubes, and are gradually S n the tendon as they approach the linea alba; towards the ihum they are mdistinct, but near the pubes they be come strong and well marked; in general, one stronge7than the rest rounds ofi" the apex of the external abdomifa rW and thus assists m restraining the increase of this From the position and direction of these fibre. fl?f" should be considered as distinct from the en' rof S external oblique, and as a super-added struct'^r" T . use of the intercolumnal bands i^s to prevent H pT J 0 the descending fibres of the externZuii^^^X[t^" which intervals occasionally exist, exposinc^^t the internal obhque muscle. exposing the fibres o Hitherto the external abdominal rino. ficiently apparent; it is coined f "° of cellular tissue, the eJe::^\^Zx^^\^\^ ^'^^T fascia or intercolumnar fascia wl.inl? Camper's edges or margins of tlie r 1 o ^ ung, on the spermatic cord,