295. COMMON CAKOTID ARTERIES. this being closed by adhesive plaster. After the operation, the patient's head and neck should be supported on a pillow, so as to relax the muscles as much as possible. The carotid artery is tied in the superior or superficial stage, when wounded here, as in cases of attempted suicide, or for the cure of aneurism of the internal or external carotid arteries, or any of their principal branches, or for aneurism of the first stage, accord- ing to the distal operation. It has been also recommended to be tied in cases of hsemorrhage from the external carotid, or any of the principal branches when wounded; if possible, the wounded artery itself should be tied, and if this cannot be accomplished, the trunk nearest to the wounded branch should be secured. When hasmorrhage takes place from deep ulcers of the tongue, it has been found necessaiy to tie the external, or common carotid; the former should, for obvious reasons, be preferred. Some have advocated tying the common carotid artery, for the cure of large aneurisms by anastomosis affecting one or more of the principal branches of the external carotid. Experience, however, has proved that such treatment is ineffectual, owing to the free anas- tomosis of these branches, which carry on the disease, although the main artery may have been secured. The operation of tying the common carotid, in its superior or supei-ficial stage, is performed as follows: • Place the patient in the reciunbent posture, turning the head to the opposite side, and slightly extending the neck; make an incisioit about three inches in length, along and a little internal to the antenor margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and extending from a httle beneath the angle of the jaw to the side of the cricoid cartilage. In this the integuments and platysma are divided and the cervical fascia exposed; divide this cautiously on a director, taking care to avoid the veins, and particularly the labial or facial, which crosses this part of the neck to open into the jugular vein, and also the descendens noni nerve, which lies here in general on the anterior surface of the sheath. Open into the sheath as directed in the preceding operation, and proceed to pass the aneurism needle round the artery from without inwards avoiding the par vagum and internal jugular vein externallv the sympathetic nerve posteriorly, and the superior laryueeal nVrv<. and superior thyroid artery on the inner side • "cr\e The common carotid artery should always be secured, if possible at some distance from its bifurcation, as the origins of the external and internal carotids are likely to prevent the formafion of the coagiUum in the interior of the vessel when secured near to t£ The common carotid artery bifurcates opposite the os hyoides. or superior edge of the thyroid cartilage, into THE EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERIES These vessels are nearly equal in size in the adult, but