126 ANATOMY. the former, each separately may rotate the trunk, co-operating with the opposite external ob- lique. CiiEMASTEK. This musclc, deriving part of its origin from the internal oblique, is here de- scribed, though being a muscle of the scrotum. Or. Inner sur- face of the external thu-d of Poupart's ligament, and from the lower edge of the obliquus internus, and sometimes from the transversalis. It often has an attachment to the pubis. Ins. Tunica vaginalis and scrotum. Use. To elevate, support, and compress the testicle. Tbansveesalis. Or. Fascia lumborum, anterior three fourths of the inner lip of the crista ilii, the iliac third of Poupart's liga- ment, and the inner side of the six inferior ribs. Ins, Along with the posterior lamina of obhquus internus, into the whole length of the linea alba, the upper edge of the pubis, and the linea ilio-pectinea. Use. To compress the abdo- men, and assist in respiration. Rectus. Or. Upper and an- terior part of pubis. Ins. Ensiform cartilage, the costo-xiphoid ligament, and the cartilages of the sixth and seventh ribs. Use. To compress the abdo- men, to depress the chest to- wards the pelvis, or raise the latter towards the chest. Pykamidalis. Or. Broad • from the crista of the pubis. Ins. Linea alba, midway to umbilicus: it is sometimes want- ing. Use. To make tense the linea alba. DEEP MUSCLES C The DiAPHBA&M is divided into two portions, a superior broad or true diaphragm, and an inferior lesser portion named crura. True diaphbagm. Or. Poste- rior surface of the xiphoid carti- lage, internal surfaces of the car- tilages of the last true and all the false ribs, the external or false ligameutum arcuatum, and the convex edge of the true liga- meutum arcuatum. Ins. Tlie fibres all convert and are inserted into the corcu- form tendon. False, or lesser diaphragm, or CROBA. Or. Right crus, from the fore part of the bodies of four F THE ABDOMEN. superior lumbar vertebrae, the left crus from the sides of the two or three superior lumbar vertebrae. Ins. Into the cordiform ten- don. The internal fibres of the crura cross each other, and sur- round the oesophageal openmg. Use of the Diaphragm. To aid iu inspiration, and to assist the expulsion of the foetus, faeces, and urine, vomiting, and many other actions connected with the respiratory organs. Q,UA.DRA.TUS LUJrBOBtJM. Or. Posterior fourth of the crista of the ilium, and from the ilio-lum- bar Ugameut. I?is. Extremity of the trans-