666 STJKGERY. be aneurismal, the wound should be immediately closed, and appropriate treatment adopted. In most cases the alternate contraction and enlargement of the tumour at each pulsation of the heart, and its capability of being diminished in size by pressure, or by stopping the flow of blood into it, will be found of much value in aiding us to form a correct diagnosis. TKEATMENT OF ANEURISM. The treatment of aneurism may be comprised under the two heads of medical and surgical. Internal aneurisms, at least those which affect the aorta, can only be treated medically, or by those medicines which act through the medium of the constitution. The great object which we should have in view in the treatment of these affections is the lessening the force of the circulation in order that we may thus by moderating the heart's action retard the increase of the aneurismal sac, and dispose the blood to become coagulated in its interior, and thus produce its cure by obliteration. Although it is but in a few instances indeed that we can hope for so desirable a consummation, yet we shall by so doing relieve the sufferings of the patient, and prolong his life to a much longer period than if the case be left to nature. For this purpose, strict rest and a moderate regimen should be enjoined, and the action of the heart moderated by occasional bleeding from the arm, and by the use of digitahs either in the form of tincture, of which six to ten minims may be given three times a day, or in powder, of which one to two grains may be ex- hibited at a dose. The occasional use of opium will also be found beneficial, as also the local abstraction of blood by means of leeches or cupping. General bloodletting should not be carried further than from eight to ten ounces at a time and that at reasonable intervals, as it is our object to avoid fainting and prevent reaction. We should at the same time not repeat it too frequently, as we may otherwise induce a state of irritation more likely to frustrate than conduce to the object we have in view, and bring on a dropsical state of the patient, which frequent bloodlettings are known to induce. A generous use of food has been recommended by some in order that an additional quantity of fibrine may be