PHYSIOLOGY, 432 out various secretions in the dififerent parts, as the foUicles of the stomach, crypts of Lieberkiihn, &c. Secreting Glands.—These are of several varieties, which can however be best divided into three. The simplest form of secreting glands is that in which the substance is secreted by the waU of a simple cell, which when it is filled, bursts into the adjoining cavity. The next form is that in which, in order to increase the acting surface, the secretory surface projects, or is folded so as to afford additional superficies. Several varieties of this sort of gland exist, in some of which the surfaces are serrated or notched for a similar purpose. In the third case the membrane is more or less inverted, so as to form an increase of surface without lessening the calibre of the cavity. In this variety some of the secre- tory apparatus are merely simple pouches, with a more or less constricted orifice, whilst in others there is an evident duct, and this in many cases more or less branched, and eventually terminating in the real secreting ceUs. In most glands the separate portions are bound together by a cellular substance, called parenchyma, in addition to which many glands have a regular fibrous covering. In some instances there exist more or less perfect re- servoirs, in which the secretion is kept for a short time previously to its being used or eliminated. The structure of these is generally somewhat fibrous with a mucous lining, a few muscular portions being intermixed. OF THE NUTEITIVE FUNCTIONS. Mastication and Insalivation.—The food being taken into the mouth, is retained there and brought under the influence of the teeth by the lips, the buccinator muscles, and tongue. By the lateral motions of the lower jaw, effected by the pterygoid and assisted by the masseter muscles, the inferior molar teeth grind the aliinentary substance against the upper ones. During this time the food becomes mixed with the saUva and mucus of the mouth, which convert it into an easily-swallowed bolus, and also fit it for digestion and assimilation. De(/lutition.-ANhen the food has been sufficiently divided and imbued with saliva, it is placed in a mass upon the dorsum of the tongue, which is rendered concave for