SURGERY. 5S8 will have the effect of supporting the tumour, and oppo- sing the protrusion of any more of the viscera. Where the hernia is composed of omentum only, moderate pres- sure may be tried, as it has been found to cause an absorp- tion of the protruded omentum and the gradual return of the hernial sac into the abdomen. It is evident that great care will be required in the use of the pressure, as otherwise it might be applied where an intestine forms part of the tumour, or it may bring on an inflammation of the omentum, and thus induce general peritonitis. In some cases where the hernia is large and of long standing, the abdominal cavity has become con- tracted, or a deposit of fat has taken place in its interior, which will materially oppose the reduction of the hernial tumour. Here, if our patient be very anxious to get rid of the disease, the moderate use of opening medicines, bloodletting, and a strict regimen, may give rise to an absorption of the adipose matter, so as to produce a di- minution in the size of the hernial tumour, and afi'ord room in the abdomen for its return, which will contribute much to the facility of the reduction of the hernia. Mr. Hey several times succeeded in this way. Sir A. Cooper recommends the repeated apphcation of cold to the tumour, which he has found beneficial, by causing a diminution in its bulk, thus conducing to its final reduction. INCARCERATED HERNIA. In this form of the disease the hernial tumour is so constricted as to interfere, to a moderate extent, with the functions of the intestines. It rarely occurs, except in cases of old irreducible hernia, and is most frequently produced by a collection of feculent matter, or of air in the cavity of the intestines. It may be also caused by an increased deposit of fatty matter in the protruded omentum pressing on the in- testines, or from an additional portion of intestine or omentum having been forced into the hernial sac. Incarceration is a condition of the hernial tumour which requires immediate attention, as, if allowed to con- tinue in this state for any lengtli of time, more acute symptoms will at last snp'ervene, and thus the patient