572 SUEGEKY. for giving relief in cases of retention of urine from stric- ture: more general use has not borne out the character originally bestowed on this medicine; in some cases it has proved of much use, but in many others has wholly failed. When the retention has existed for some time, we must at once have recourse to the instrument, a small one being selected for obvious reasons. Should the instrument pass, it is better that it should remain in the bladder as long as the patient can bear it without much inconve- nience. Where we cannot succeed in passing the instrument, and the symptoms become urgent, some mode of drawing off the urine must be adopted, either by tapping the bladder or by cutting down on the stricture; of these, the latter is to be preferred. Tapping the Bladder.—'^^o situations present them- selves for this purpose, above the pubes and through the rectum. The operation of tapping the bladder above the pubes is performed in the following manner: Make a vertical incision, from an inch and a half to two inches in length, through the linea alba, immediately above the pubes, pass in one or two fingers of the left hand, to push up the peritoneum, and feel for the distended bladder; through the lower part of the incision introduce the trocar and canula used for this purpose, du-ecting the instrument downwards, and backwards, or on the axis ot the bladder. The viscus being penetrated, withdraw the trocar and pass through the canula, before the unue can flow out, a gum-elastic catheter, over which the canula is to be withdrawn. The urine now flows through the cathe- ter, and the operation is completed. It is objectionable to leave the canula in tlie bladder, as, from its shortness, it may shp out of that viscus, or, should it retain its place, it will irritate and inflame the mucous membrane, me catheter may be allowed to remain in the bladder for two or three days, when the opening will have become sinuous from the effusion of coagulable lymph, and the catheter may be with safety removed. Three very formidable objec- tions exist to the performance of the operation ot tapping the bladder above the pubes; the first is, the danger ot wounding the peritoneum and small intestines; the second,