THE TliSTBS. 2/3 in the groove on the dorsum of the penis, and terminate by forming a vascular circle round the corona glandis; 2d, arterice corporis cavernosi, perforate the crura penis,' and run forwards, on each side of and close to the septum pectiniforme; 3d, arterice bulbi vel corporis spongiosi urethra, penetrate the bulb, and supply the corpus spon- giosum urethrse. The veins of the penis pass backwards from the arteries, form a plexus round the neck of the bladder, and terminate in the internal ihac vein. The nerves of the penis are derived from the internal pudic, and accompany the arteries. The erection of the penis is caused by the contraction of the erectores penis muscles, which force the blood forwards into the organ, and prevent the return of the venous blood. Dr. Houston of Dublin, describes a pair of muscles, the " compressores venae dorsalia penis," which, arising on each side from the ramus of the pubis, cross the dorsal veins, and thus are enabled to compress them, and so contribute to the erection of the organ. In amputation of the penis the course of the arteries snould be borne in mmd, so as to enable the operator to secure the bleeding vessels with ease. In haemor- rhages from the penis, the division or tying of the dorsal arteries, or arteries of the bulb, sometimes becomes necessary. Cowper's glands are two small bodies of the size of an ordinary pea, which are lodged between the layers of the triangular ligament, in the space between the membranous portion of the urethra and the bulb. They send off a small duct which, passing forwards on each side, opens into the urethra in front of the bulb. Their exact use is unknown ^ylZT^ T '""^^"^'^ gonorrhoea, and thus give rise to abscesses in perineo. THE FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION Are divided into the external &nd. internal. The external l>arts are the mons veneris, labia, clitoris, nym^ vala 6.0(1 pe?-ineu?n. ^ j"""^, vugmu, The mons veneris is the nroiection in fl.n <. c upper part of the pubes ; it^co^drsome't beneath the' integuments, and is covered with hair Tn the adX i t ^nons, vulva, or pudendum, aro torn., ofion used as applyh'^ 12ยง