613 TREATMENT Of FRACTURES. Fractures of the femur through the trochanter major are produced by direct violence. Symptoins: Pain, crepitus, loss of motion, and eversion of the foot. Treatment: Place the Hmb on the double inclined plane, and support the part ■with compresses, bandages, and splints. Fracture of the femur in its upper third.—Causes : Direct or indirect violence. General Symptoms: The upper fractured portion is here drawn forward by the action of the psoas magnus and iliacus internus muscles. Treatment: Employ the long spHnt or place the limb on the double in- clined plane, the patient nearly in the sitting posture, the hip-joint flexed, and the knee extended so as to relax the psoas and iliacus internus muscles; assist the position by means of compresses and splints judiciously applied. Fractures of the lower third of the femur are treated by the long splint or the double inclined plane, with the knee-jomt flexed to prevent the action of the heads of the gastrocnemius on the lower fractured portion. Fractures of either condyle of the femur extending to the knee-joint are treated in the straight position in order that the upper surface of the tibia may act as a support to the fracture. A pasteboard splint, moulded on the joint supported by common splints and bandages, should be made use of. Passive motion should be commenced at the end of the fifth week. Fractures of the patella.—The transverse fracture of the patella is the most frequent. It is generally produced by the spasmodic action of the rectus muscle, when the knee is in the semiflexed position, the patella being then broken across the lower end of the femur. The patella may be also fractured transversely by direct violence, as nL r?i? ^l/"'Pioms: Pain and swelling about the joint separation of the broken bones the superior being drawn upwards by the rectus muscle and mabdity of extending the limb.' Treatment .- Place hmb m he extended position, flexing the hip-joint so as to relax the rectus femoris, and allow of the uppe portion being drawn down and placed in annosit nn ^ lower This being accomplished, a leathe belt is b.fck !h round the thigh above the upp;r portion nf. ^"f^"'^ each side of which a leather ^ 7 ?^ ^?''^' ^'""^ passes to n hrnnVl 1 u ?^ providcd with buckles passes to a broad belt beneath the knee, and is thus