ARTEUIA ILIACA INTERNA. 371 Arteria pudica interna proceeds in company M'ith the sciatic artery out of the pelvis ; winds round the spine of the ischium, and insertion of the lesser sciatic ligament; re-enters the pelvis through the lesser sciatic notch, runs upwards and forwards on the inner surface of the tuber ischii and ramus of the ischium and pubes, until it arrives at the sub-pubic ligament, when it terminates by dividing into the artery of the corpus cavernosura and the dorsal artery of the penis. In this course, the pudic artery is accompanied by the pudic nerve, a branch of the sacral plexus. In the first part of its course, the pudic artery gives off a few small branches to the bladder and vesicute seminales in the male, to the vagina and uterus in the female. Whilst external to the pelvis, or in its second stage, the pudic artery gives off a few branches to the surrounding muscles. In its third stage the pudic artery is bound to the inner surface of the bones and the obturator muscle by the obturator fascia and an expansion from the great sciatic ligament, and lies along the outer side of the perineum, where it is endangered in performing the operation of lithotomy. The principal branches arise from the pudic artery in this stage of its course, and are as follows: 1. Arteries hcBtnorrhoidales externce are two or three in number: they are distributed to the lower extremity of the rectum, where they anastoraovse with the other hsemor- rhoidal arteries. 2. Arteria superficialis perinei pierces the obturator fascia and base of the triangular ligament, runs forwards and inwards in the interspace between the accelerator urinse and erector penis, and is lost in the integuments of the perineum and scrotum. This artery runs in the line of our incisions in the operation of lithotomy, and therefore cannot be avoided. 3. Arteria iransversalis j^erijiei runs forwards and inwards along the interior and cutaneous surface of the transversus perinei muscle to the mesial line, where it terminates by anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side. This artery is cut across in the operatioi/of lithotomy. 4. Arteria corporis bidbosi vel spongiosi urethrm arises opposite the point where the urethra pierces the deep