J6 EEGIOKAL AND SUUGICAL ANATOMY. axillary artery or of the brachial artery high up. To secure it in this situation, place the patient in the horizontal position, wth the head and neck turned towards the opposite side, and the shoulder depressed as much as possible; make an incision along and a Uttle above the clavicle, commencing at the outer edge ot the sterno-mastoid muscle, or a little internal to the centre of the bone,and terminating near its acromial end; m this the integu- ments, platvsma, and a few of the supra-clavicular branches of the cervical plexus will be divided. A quantity of cellular tissue is now exposed, filling the posterior inferior triangle of the neck; in this are contained some branches of the cervical and brachial plexuses, lymphatic glands, and a number of small veins crossing from the posterior part of the neck to terminate in the external iueular vein, which lies close to the outer margin of the sterno- mastoid muscle. Tear through this cellular tissue, takmg care to avoid, if possible, the several parts just mentioned. In some subjects the clavicular portion of the sterno-mastoid muscle en- croaches on the space, and will reqmre division. On continuing the dissection more deeply the omo-hymd muscle will be brought into view, crossing the upper part of .the space ; This being d?awn upwards, the subclavian vein and transversahs humeri artery will be exposed in the base of the triangle, and the tonsversahs colli ai-tery in its apex; separate these parts and expose the outer edge of the scalenus anticus muscle; pass he finger downwards along this, and it will thus be conducted to the subclavian artery, where it rests on the upper ^"^f^" of the fint rib As the brachial plexus lies m close contact with the artery Ti possible that one of its branches, and most hkely the cen ral one, from its running a long course before it joins the plexus, and from its proximity to the artery, may be mistaken for the sub- cla^an artery. Detach the artery from its surrounding con- neXns and pass the aneurism needle from below upwards and a little from within outwards. Should it be found diflicult to nass the needle in this direction (as it sometimes is from the To tion of the clavicle,) it may be passed in the contrair di- rection. In doing so, the subclavian vem should be caretuUy ThnSrlr oi l^ilj'ttSlar-artery in its third stage has been nt so tq^^^^^^^^ performed with success, that no question can be entertained as to the propriety of its adoption m aU cases in which it may be considered necessary. „„„„Hons even We may here observe that in the performance of all ope™^°°«; the smaller veins should be avoided, as the heemo rl^^ag w^^^^^ ensues from them when divided, by obscuring the arts, add much to the embarrassment of the surgeon. It ma> appear extra ordinary that a nerve should be mistaken for "Jterj but it should be recollected that the Wood discolours t e nene and that a pulsation is frequently communicated o ;t > tje an , under these circumstances the mistake is not at all an uniiKciy one, and has been more than once committed.