StFRGEKY. and reaching its height often so early as the third or fourth day. The stump becomes swollen, red, and painful, and is increased in temperature, and general fever sets in. The bandages and dressings should be removed, the lips of the wound, which are merely agglutinated together, opened, and the cavity of the stump cleansed of the coagula and unhealthy discharge which it contains. A number of leeches should now be applied, the stump be fomented, and then enveloped in a cataplasm or water dressing, the lips of the wound being supported by one or two strips of adhesive plaster, aided by bandages loosely applied. The antiphlogistic regimen is to be strictly adhered to, if not contra-indicated by the weak state of the patient. 4th. Erysipelas may also attack the stump. 5th, Sloughing, or hospital gangrene. . 6th. Protrusion of bone, forming a conical stump, and terminating in exfoliation. This is an exceedingly trouble- some, if not dangerous symptom. It is generally caused by sufficient soft parts not having been left in the operation to cover the end of the bone, by starting of the stump, or by sloughing, or profuse suppuration from it. When the bone projects much, the protruding portion should be removed with the saw. When the projection is moderate, it may be left to nature, which accomplishes the cure by the exfoliation of the Ijone, a complete ring of which comes away. 7th. Painful affections of the nerves, from their ex- tremities being included in the cicatrix, or exposed to pressure from the end of the bone; when anodyne ap- plications fail to give relief, the nerves should be re- moved. Amputation may prove fatal from the shock of the operation, secondary hsemorrhage, violent inflauiniation, and erysipelas of the stump, sloughing, or hospital gan- grene, mortification, or from some of the internal organs, particularly those of the thorax or abdomen, being dis- eased. If the stump be examined some months after the operation, a cicatrix, corresponding to the wound, will be found in the integuments; this is small, and approaches 10 a circular shape; the surrounding skin is puckered or