lUMBAR NERVES. 187 thigh into two branches, the tibial and pej'oneal, the former being named popliteal till it reaches the leg, and appears to be the proper continuation of the sciatic nerve. The popliteal nerve passes down in the popliteal space, under the fascia, but superficially to the artery and vein ; after passing the joint it rests on the popliteus muscle, under cover of the gastrocnemius, then crosses the posterior tibial artery, and descends on its outer side, and is here properly named posterior tibial nerve ; it then passes down with the artery, and in the sole of the foot divides into external and internal plantar nerves. The branches given oflf by this nerve are: Muscular twigs in its course. Articular branches to the knee-joint. A long branch given otf in the popliteal space, (named communicans tibia, or communicans poplitcei,) descends between the two heads of the gastrocnemius, then over its posterior surface, running downwards to the outer border of the tendo achiUis; it accompanies the saphena minor vein, and about the middle of the leg unites with a similar branch sent off from the peroneal nerve. This external saphenous nerve passes behind the outer ankle to the dorsum of the foot, where it divides into filaments, which extend to the fourth and fifth digital phalanges. In its course down the leg it gives filaments which pierce the fascia and become subcutaneous. The posterior tibial nerve in its course down the leg supplies filaments to the muscles in its immediate proximity, viz., the plantaris, gastrocnemius, soleus, tibialis posticus, and long flexors of the leg, and lower down gives filaments to the ligaments of the anlcle, bursa and fascia about the tendo achilhs. In the hollow of the foot this nerve gives off" a filament to the integuments of the sole, and then divides into ex- ternal and internal plantar nerves. The internal plantar nerve, the larger of the two, takes the course of the internal plantar artery, gives branches to the abductorpoUicis, flexor brevis digitorum, andaccessorius, and divides into four filaments, very like the median in the hand; one branch, the smallest, passes to the inside of the great toe, the three others bifurcate to supply the opposed sides of the first, second, third, and fourth toes, gmng filaments to the lumbricales and interossei muscles • the fourth nerve gives off a filament to communicate with the superficial branch of the external plantar nerve