INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 475 of "collapsethe second is that of "reaction;" the third that of " wflammation." The stage of collapse immediately succeeds the injury; it is indicated by general insensibility, the patient's breathing is difficult, but in general without stertor; his pulse is feeble, intermitting, and with difficulty felt, and his extremities are cold. This stage generally lasts but a short time, as it is either followed by death or by the second stage. Reaction.—In this, the pulse and respiration improve the surface of the body becomes warm, the patient becomes partially sensible to external impression, and winces or cries out if the skin be pinched, or he is other- wise irritated; he sometimes answers questions, if asked m a loud tone of voice, and particularly if it relate to the accident or his present condition; otherwise he answers incoherently, and mutters rather than replies to any question; the pulse is quick, the pupils generally con- tracted, the bowels confined, and the urini retained • or these secretions may be passed involuntarily, as in com- pression. The stomach in this stage becomes irritable, and vomitmg frequently ensues. The duration of this stage IS extremely variable ; it may last but a few hours or may contmue for weeks; it maybe followed, in the coujse of twenty-four or forty-eight hours, by the third Stage of Inflammation.this the patient becomes more restless, frequently muttering broken sentences; his countenance is flushed his skin hot, his pulse quick' and often hai-d, his bowels confined. If this sta-e be not moderated by appropriate treatment, matter foms mo The treatment of concussion varies accordino- to tbp stage present. In the first, or that of collapse medicines are almost useless, on account of the difficuUrofTwnTw ing and the fear of causing too violen a^ret jon Tf anything be insisted upon, it should be a smaU dos'e of spiritus ammoniac aromaticus, or a little frnl.^^ 7 should be constantly applied to the Sf i ' body. Bleeding in'th,? age is ]th^ U should appear that there I so!::^^~nS;r'-: