723 BURNS AND SCALDS. calcis or a mixture of lime-water and milk, will also be found useful. Some recommend the wrapping of the parts in cotton; the advantages of this remedy are of a very negative description. When the cutis suppurates, the sore may be dressed, as after a common blister. This form of burn frequently proves fatal, if the surface injured be extensive, as when a person falls into boiling water or wort. The third and fourth forms of burn may be considered together. These accidents are more frequently caused by the clothes taking fire, the explosion of gunpowder, the boiling over of hot fluids or metals in laboratories, manu- factories, &c. When extensive, the patient, if seen im- mediately after the accident, is found suffering from collapse, caused by the shock of the accident; he is insensible, the skin is cold and pale, except where burned, here it presents an ash-coloured appearance, varying from a deep black to a yellowish tinge, according to the violence done to the part; the pulse is quick, weak, and scarcely to be felt; the patient suffers no pain. Brandy and am- monia should be freely administered, and the warm lini- mentum calcis or spirits of turpentine applied to the burnt parts. The collapse may last for some hours, or even prove fatal. If not fatal, it is succeeded by the stage of reaction. In this the pulse rises, the skin becomes warm, and the patient sensible, pain makes its appearance, and perhaps vomiting sets in. The same remedies may be appUed, but with more caution, until reaction has been established, when simulants should be laid aside, and the third stage, or that of inflammation, guarded against. The inflammatory stage is characterised by the usual local and constitutional symptoms attendant on inflammation. The antiphlogistic regimen may be observed in this stage, but with much caution, as the patient's strength requires to be husbanded to meet the future stages of sloughing and cicatrisation. Poultices may be applied to the deeply- burnt parts in order to expedite suppuration, and the separation of the sloughs, which constitute the fourth stage of burn. The process which takes place in this stage, IS that observed in the separation of sloughs from other causes. The same treatment is also applicable here. The patient's strength should be supported by a liberal