CEllEBRAL NERVES. 173 artery and internal jugular vein, and descends and runs parallel with the lower margin of the digastric muscle; as it turns forward it hooks round the occipital artery, and here gives off its desceudens noni branch, then runs above the OS hyoides on the outer surface of the hyo-glossus muscle, and is ultimately distributed to the genio-hyo- glossus and hngualis muscles. The branches from it are the following: Filaments to connect it with the glosso-pharyngeal, nervus vagus, accessorius, sympathetic, and nervous loop of the atlas. The descmdens noni branch, which runs down upon the carotid sheath, and, anastomosing with filaments of the cervical nerves, forms an arch convex downwards, from which filaments are distributed to the omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-tbyroid muscles. Filaments to the stylo-pharyngeus, constrictors of the pharynx and enco-thyroid muscle. Filaments to surrounding muscles. Filaments to communicate with gustatory and terminal filaments to the ImguaUs and genio-hyo-glossus muscles. Of the nine cranial nerves, some give special sensation, others ordinary sensation, and a third set motion to the parts they supply. The first is the nerve of the special sense of taste. The second is the nerve of the special sense of sight. The thu-d, fourth, and sixth nerves are motor, supplying the muscles of the eyeball. The fifth has a sensitive division, supplying the principal part of the face, and a motor division supplying the muscles of mastication. The portio mollis of the seventh nerve supplies the special sense of hearing, whilst the portio dura supplies all the muscles of the face with motion, excepting the muscles of mastication. The functions of the eighth pair are very various The glosso-pharyngeal nerve is considered by many authorities to be a nerve of taste. Some, bowever, consider that function to be fulfilled by the gustatory branch of the htth alone. It would seem to be more probable that both contribute to that function, inasmuch as injury to either nerve has been followed by more or less injury to the sense It is the opinion of many physiologists that the gustatory 18 the nerve of ordinary sensation to the tongue, and that the glosso-pharyngeal is the nerve of bitter taste.