13 LIGAMENTS OP THE SPINE. occipital nerve. Synovial capsules surround the articulation of the occiput with the atlas, and of the atlas with the axis. The odontoid process has one both upon its anterior and posterior surface. The articulation between the head and atlas is of the class arthrosis, that between the atlas and axis, lateral ginglymus. Disease and accident in these articulations often cause sudden death, as in rupture of the check ligaments, in suspension of the body by the head, the escape of the odontoid process from the transverse ligament, or fracture of it, in executions, by which the spinal marrow becomes suddenly compressed. The general ligaments of the spine are these : Anterior common ligament. Posterior „ „ Liffameiita subflava. Inter-transverse. „ spinous. Supra spinous. Capsular. The anterior common ligament proceeds from the second cervical vertebra, as far as the sacrum, stretching from vertebra to vertebra, attached to the edges of the vertebrse and inter-vertebral substance: when cleaned it presents a pearly-white glistening appearance. It consists of three sets of fibres : first set, superficial, stretch between three or four vertebrae. The second set, middle, pass from one vertebra to a third. The third set, deep, stretch from one vertebra to the next. This ligament is broader as it descends, and is thickest in the dorsal region. It is perforated by a number of vessels. The posterior common ligament is seen in the spinal canal, behind the bodies of the vertebrae. It appears to arise from the second cervical vertebra, and is lost at the upper part of the sacrum. In its course, it is firmly attached to the edges of the vertebrie and inter-vertcbral substance, where it is expanded for preventing the sub- stance, here almost fluid, from pressing upon the spinal chord : opposite the bodies of the vertebra;, the ligament IS contracted, presenting on each side a lunated margin and does not touch the bone, being separated by numerous vessels. In structure it is dense, firm, and glistening.