144 A.K ATOMY. The place where it is considered to enter them, is almost immediately under the posterior cerebral lobes, and is caUed the fissure of Bichat. The arachnoid also extends down the spinal canal, lining the dura mater, and reflected upwards upon the spinal cord, and not passing out wi h anv of the nerves. The arachnoid may be seen separately as it passes from one convolution of the bram to another. Between the arachnoid membrane and pia mater is found a variable quantity of a serous fluid, called the sub-arach- noidean fluid, which sometimes exists m considerable quantity in the spinal canal. In the healthy state there are no visible blood-vessels in this membrane. Immediately under, and closely connected with the arachnoid membrane, is the third investment of the brain- the pia mater,-^ highly vascular structure appearmg to consist only of minute vessels and cellular tissue. It nve ts the^brain most closely covering its entire surface and dipping down between aU the convolutions. It also mssesTto the lateral ventricles, and thence over the third ?ent c e, in which situation it forms the tela choroulea^^ TveluminterposiUm, found i^^^^^.'^f f ^ ^ tTventrick fornix • it also sends a small process into the fourth ventricle It passes down upon the spinal cord, but becomes much JhiSened, and a? the same time less vascular insomuch that Cloquet and some others have considered it, in th^ situation to be a different structure; but this is probably Siout suLient reason, as the pia mater of the spinal ^rd i^ quL continuous with that of the cranium, and o^y alters on account of the difference in the structure to which iJ s applied Unlike the arachnoid, it is extended upon the neTves which quit the cranium and spinal canal, and lobarslo f^m the commencement of their neurilemma. des structures investing the ^rain and spind „«v<1 there is another in relation only with the latter, Zt ^^ LioZtln denticulatunu This extends on each side, along the whole length of the spinal cord At ite sunerior extremity it is inserted into the dura mater near Sfforamen magnum, and extends as far as the lower end of the cord. Its internal margin is attached to the whole Sr^lth of the pia mater investing the spinal cord, wh st f external margin is attached by about twenty-two little p inf to tie side of the dura mater, from this circumstance