646 SUBGEEY. straight line, and thus the bone is dislocated outwards. The patella may be thrown outwards by falls on its inner edge. Symptoms: The dislocated bone is felt on the outer edge of the external condyle of the femur, the limb ap- proaches to a state of extension, and the motion of the knee is limited. Reduction: Raise the limb nearly to a right angle with the trunk, so as to relax the extensor muscles, and then press the patella inwards. Dislocation inwards is of rare occurrence; it is caused by falls or blows on the outer edge of the patella. A dislocation upwards of the patella, accompanied by a rupture of thehgamentum patellee, is described by some. It is only a retraction of the bone upwards, caused by the action of the extensor muscles, when the ligament is ruptured. Dislocation of the knee-joint.—^he knee may be dis- located either forwards, backwards, inwards, or outwards. These accidents are caused by great violence. They are easily recognised by the projections of the heads of the bones, and are reduced without diflaculty, by moderate ex- tension and pushing the tibia to its natural position. Hei/s dislocation of the knee-joint.—This accident, called by Mr. Hey the internal derangement of the knee- ioint is now considered to be a displacement of one or both'condyles of the femur from the corresponding semi- lunar cartilages, most frequently the internal. This acci- dent is, in general, caused by the point of the foot, whilst everted, striking forcibly against any projection, when pain is immediately felt in the knee, and the patient becomes incapable of perfectly extendmg the leg. It has also occurred by a sudden twist of the knee-joint. Symptoms: When no contusion has occurred, or the effects of it are removed, the joint, with respect to shape, appears uninjured. If there is any deviation from its usual appearance, it is that the ligament of the patella seems more relaxed than that of the sound hmb. ihe leg is readily bent or extended by the hands of the sur- geon, and without pain to the patient; at most the degree, of uneasiness caused by this flexion and extension is trifling. But the patient himself cannot freely bend nor perfectly extend the limb; in walking he is compelled to walk witb the knee slightly ilexed. Yet, though the leg is stifl m walkin'' it may be freely moved whUe the patient is sittmg