LUMBAR NEEVES. 183 The Lumbar plexus is formed iu the substance of the psoas muscle, by the four superior lumbar nerves, and receives branches from the last dorsal and the sympathetic gangHa, along the sides of the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae. The branches given off by the plexus are : musculo-cutaneous, external cutaneous, external pudic, crural, obturator, and a communicating branch to the sacral plexus. The musculo-cutaneous branches, {ilio hypogastric, and ilio inguinal,) two in number, chiefly from the first lumbar nerve, pass through the psoas muscle, forwards upon the anterior surface of the quadratus lumborum, to reach the crista ilii. These branches may be considered external and internal. The external, passes between the transversalis and internal obUque muscles, and gives off filaments which supply the transversahs and ihacus muscles, and subcutaneous filaments to the gluteus medius and maximus ; one part of it passes forwards along the crista of the ilium, then follows Poupart's ligament, and gives filaments to the pubes, and scrotum, and in females to the labia. The internal branch runs between the transversalis and internal oblique, and then between the latter and external oblique muscle, and is ultimately lost in the groin and scrotum. The external cutaneous nerve, arising chiefly from the second lumbar, passes downwards and forwards, upon the ihac fascia, towards the anterior superior spinous process of the iHum, below which it passes and gets out of the pelvis; it pierces the fascia lata, and is distributed by two filaments; one passing downwards and sub-cutaneous to the outer part of the thigh, the other running down as far as the outside of the knee. The external pudic nerve, also named genito-crural or external spermatic, appears to come ofi" chiefly from the second lumbar nerve; it pierces the psoas muscle, and descends upon its anterior surface, and at the crural arch divides mto two branches, named internal and external. The internal branch accompanies the spermatic cord of the male or round hgament in the female; and is distributed to the cremaster ^nd coverings of the testicle and adjacent parts of the groin; or to the pubes and labia of the female. The ea:ternal branch passes under Poupart's ligament, perforates