248 ANATOMY. very similar manner to the right, as to the parietes and small intestines, only reversing the sides; its calibre is rather less, and at the upper part it is deeper seated, it is but slightly covered by peritoneum. u ^ The sifftnoid flexure of the colon is situated m the iett iliac fossa. It is connected by a rather loose fold of peri- toneum, which allows it a considerable degree of motion, and, from its curved form, is supposed to be intended tor the chief reservoir of fsecal matter. It is bounded in front by the abdominal parietes ; behind, by the iliacus muscle on which it rests ; internally, it is in relation with the sraail intestines. It is capable of considerable distension, and is the great reservoir of the fseces in most persons. The lono-itudinal bands, which are three on the ascending and transverse colon, often merge into two in the descending and sigmoid portions, and the sacculi are frequently less ^^^The 'Rectum commences at the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and terminates in the anus. ^ ^, Arising from the left side, it immediately inchnes to the mesial line, follows the curve of the sacrum, and termmates at about an inch beyond and before the coccyx: from this bone it turns a little backwards, and is thus removed from the vagina of the female and urethra of the male It is cylindrical in shape, and not sacculated hke the colon in consequence of the longitudinal fibres being dis- persed over it.generaUy; it is narrow at its upper part, and becomes gradually dilated till it arrives near the anus, inst above which the dilatation is considerable, like a large re- servoir, which sometimes is enormouslydisteuded with x!«ces. Boundaries and Relations.-Beh^nd it. first, there is the sacro-iliac symphysis, then the curvature of the sacrum and coccyx; superiorly, it is attached to the sacrum by a fold of neritoneum, named meso-rectum, and is separated from the symphysis and sacrum by the pyritonms muscle, the sacral plexus, and hypogastric vessels. In the portion beyond the coccyx, the levator and sphincter am form a kind of floor for it. , , i, In front, the rectum is free at its upper part, but adherent in the lower portion ; and, as its relations vary with the sex, thev must be spoken of separately. In the male the upper part looks towards the posterior