698 SUEGEKY, putation is that performed immediately, or as soon after the receipt of an injury, as the collapse consequent upon the injury has gone off. Secondai-y amputation is that iu which the operation is delayed until after the fever, supervening on an injury or disease, has subsided. The following cases call for primary operation: Severe compound fractures, in which the bones are much shat- tered, and the soft parts are extensively destroyed, par- ticularly if the principal vessels of the limb are injured —Extensive, contused, and lacerated wounds, destroying the muscles and integuments of the limb, as of the calf of the leg—Gun-shot wounds, which have carried away part of a limb, and have left an irregular torn wound. Secondary amputation is performed in cases of tnor- tification succeeding a compound fracture, and caused by the local injury, or proceeding from other causes, such as exposure to cold, &c.—Diseases of the joints, as scro- fulous and other affections of the knee, ankle, or other laro-e joints—Exostosis—Necrosis—Lavffe aneurisms— Malignant tumours—Extensive sloughing of the integu- ments, as in erysipelas, and from burns and large ulcers. Amputation may be performed by the circular, double- flap, or single-flap operation. The circular operation is in general preferred in the amputation of the thigh, of the leg in its upper half, of the arm, and of the upper half of the forearm. The double-flap operation is preferred in am- putation of the lower part of the leg and forearm. The single-flap operation is seldom resorted to, unless m cases where a portion of the limb is destroyed on one side, and the flap can be made from the opposite one, so as to avoid the removal of the limb above the injured part. The double- flap operation is preferred by some to the circular, as it is more rapidly performed, and forms a better stump. The principal objections to it are the greater extent of surtace divided, and tiie consequently greater pain given to the patient; the large extent of cut surface exposed, the oblique direction in which the vessels are divided rendering their being tied more diflicult, and when tied more liable to secondary htemorrhage. We shall illustrate these several operations, and the principles that should guide us in their performance, by selecting the amputation of