SURQEllY. 576. subject; local remedies, such as lotions, may be made of a much greater strength and injected into the vagina, -when the acute inflammatory symptoms have subsided. Young females are subject to a purulent discharge from the external parts of generation, from want of cleanliness during dentition, &c. This disease should be distinguished from gonorrhoea. It is cured by means of the lotio nigra, with the administration of rhubarb and calomel internally. ON SYPHILIS. The venereal disease, or syphilis, is contracted, Uke gonorrhoea, by the contact of infectious matter apphed to s'ome part of the body, most frequently the penis m the male, the labia in the female subject. It appears as a primary affection, in the form of a sore, named a chancre, and in the secondary affections in the form of inflamma- tion and ulcerations on different parts of the body, the mucous membrane of the throat, the skin, periosteum, and A chancre generally appears within from four to seven days after connection, but the time of manifesting itself i variable, and may extend to many weeks. Its usual seat is the corona glandis, but it may also form on he gl^s prepuce, or body of the penis; indeed, on almost any S of the humkn body. The poison first produces a Smnle on the part, of a darker hue than pimples in Sal, Ld att^ended with inflammation. The pimple buSg, an ulcer is formed in the centre and then a rugh f produced in the body of the sore which is often la?-f and extends beneath the skin. The charac er of the^sore is as follows: it is generally circular in shape; the surrounding edges are hard and ragged; ^ surfa« is yellowish, and the margin red; it is «"rr°unded by an erysipelatous redness, and it possesses an indurated base The general treatment of chancre consists in the exhibi- tion of mercury, in the form of blue pill, m five grains with a quarter of a grain of 0F"'«'"'S^^ .^"^ morning, for a period of two or three weeks. 1 he opium is of use in preventing the mercury passing off bj tne bowels The local application of black wash is beneficial.