INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 469 process of separation is still more tedious and dangerous to the patient. Tlie external periosteum may be destroyed, to a small extent, without the bone perishing, as this is most nourished from the internal periosteum. Blows on the head frequently cause a separation of the dura mater from tlie internal surface of the cranium, without pro- ducing any external appearance. The injury may manifest itself only on the supervention of meningitis, and the formation of matter between the bone and dura mater. Punctured wounds of the scalp, in which the tendi- nous expansion of the occipito-frontahs muscle is engaged, are often followed by violent symptoms, resembling those of meningitis, and caused by an inflammation beneath the tendinous expansion, followed by the formation of matter. When such symptoms make their appearance an incision should be made in the course of the wound, and through the aponeurosis: this will relieve the symptoms almost immediately. The wound should be covered with an emoUient poultice, and the antiphlogistic regimen ob- served. When the inflammation has subsided the wound may be dressed in the usual way. Blows on the head, in which the scalp is not wounded are frequently followed by the formation of a bloody tumour. This appears immediately after the receipt of the injury, and is caused by the rupture of some of the subcutaneous vessels, which force out the blood into the cellular tissue, between the pencranium and periosteum Un examming the tumour, the finger sinks into its centre whilst Its circumference is hard and resisting. This ap' pearancc, which is caused by the blood being coagulated in the circumference where the cells of the cellular sub- stance are ruptured, whilst it is fluid in the centre has been mistaken for a depressed fracture of the skull' It may be distinguished by passing the fingers along the calp; on arnvmg at the circumference of the bloody tumour, the fingers are first elevated and then sink in th'I centre; whereas, in the depressed fracture, the fingers at blond?? depression. The treatment Tthl bloody tumour consists in the application of cold evano lating lotions in order to cause its removal by the actfon of the absorbents. Should these be found b lyden pressure, or the use of blisters, may be resorted to Ope°