SUIIGEKY. 722 urethra, or a diseased condition of the prostate gland, the operation of lithotomy appears to be preferable. After the operation of lithotrity, all inflammatory symptoms should be carefully watched, and the necessary treatment adopted to arrest its progress. BURNS AND SCALDS, Scalds are produced by hot fluids, and seldom penetrate deeper than the cutis, causing a separation of the cuticle. Burns, on the contrary, may extend to the deepest-seated structures. Burns on the head or trunk are more dan- gerous than those on the extremities; a burn which affects a more extensive surface is to be dreaded more than that which penetrates deeper without affecting any great extent of surface. They are more fatal in the young and old subject than in the vigorous adult. Burns are divided into, 1st, those which affect the cutis to such an extent as to produce a vesication by the effusion of serum beneath the cuticle; 2d, those in which the cutis is more injured, and which generally terminate in suppuration ; 3d, those in which the cutis is destroyed, and ultimately sloughs; 4th, those which extend to the deeper- seated parts, producing mortification beneath the skin. Where vesications form on the surface from a bum, cold evaporating lotions should be appUed, such as the camphorated spirits of wine, the lotio acetatis plumbi, or cold water, in order to prevent the vesicles from bursting, and to lessen the inflammation. If the vesicles be opened at first much pain and constitutional disturbance will be the result from the exposure of the inflamed cutis to the atmospheric air. At a later period, when the inflammation of the cutis has been subdued, the vesicles may be opened, when the old cuticle peels off, and a new cuticle is formed. Some practice the puncturing of the vesicles with a fine needle, at the early stages. The operation frequently gives relief, if the access of air can be prevented. In the second form of burn, the cuticle is at once de- stroyed, and the inflamed cutis exposed; the consequence is that the cutis soon forms a suppurating surface, as after the application of a blister. The spirit of turpentine is the best application in the first instance to this form of burn, as the object is to excite a speedy reaction; linimentum