REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. 370 the latter course, and is thus seldom endangered in the operation for strangulated femoral hernia, 2. Arteria glutea, the largest branch of the internal iliac artery, runs downwards, backwards, and outwards, through the upper part of the great sciatic notch, above the pyriform muscle, and accompanied by the superior gluteal nerve to the supply of the gluteal muscles, in which its branches anastomose, superiorly with those of the internal circumflex iliac artery, inferiorly with branches of the sciatic, anteriorly with those of the external cir- cumflex, and posteriorly with branches of the internal pudic artery. The gluteal artery has been cut down upon, and tied where it escapes from the great sciatic notch, in cases of wounds by pene- trating instruments. This operation may be performed by making an incision from the posterior spinous process of the ilium to the great trochanter, the artery lying at the junction of the posterior with the middle third of this line; the skin and fascia having been cut through, the incision should be extended between the fibres of the gluteus maximus, on separating which, and tearing through some cellular tissue, the gluteal artery may be felt by pressing the finger against the upper part of the great sciatic notch, where the vessel lies between the pyriformis and gluteus medius muscles. The gluteal artery may be affected with aneu- rism ; here, the internal iliac or the common iliac artery should be secured. 3. Arteria ischiatica vel sciatica runs a short distance in the pelvis, passes out through the great sciatic notch, below the pyriform muscle, along with, but above, the great and lesser sciatic nerves and pudic artery ; descends on the outer side of the pelvis with the great sciatic nerve, between the tuber ischii and great trochanter, but nearer the former, and terminates in some branches which supply the surrounding muscles ; some of these ascend to anasto- mose with the gluteal and pudic arteries; others descend to the muscles on the back of the thigh, and anastomose with the branches of the internal circumflex and per- forating arteries. The only important branch of the sciatic artery is one which accompanies the sciatic nerve (arteria comes nervi ischiatici) : this branch is found to be much enlarged in cases where the femoral or iliac artery has been tied. The sciatic artery may be exposed and tied by an incision, similar to that recommended for securing the gluteal artery, but an inch and a half lower down.