MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 267 beneath the slciu; surrounding each testicle, and by uniting in the median line passing between the testicles, forming the septum scroti; by some this structure is supposed to consist of vessels only ; its use is to corrugate the scrotum and support the testicle. Its peculiar stimulus is cold. The dartos is by many considered to be a continuation of the superficial fascia of the abdomen. The intercolumnar fascia is extended downwards upon the cord from the external abdominal ring, where it is most evident; it descends in an attenuated form, and spreads out upon the scrotum. The cremaster muscle, with its fibres connected together by cellular tissue, forms the cremasteric fascia ; it passes down from the lower border of the internal oblique and sometimes transversalis muscle, in the form of loops upon the cord, and as low as the bottom of the testicle and scrotum. The use of this structure is to support and elevate the testicle, and even to compress it slightly. In cases of old hernia the fibres are very much increased in size. The fascia transversalis, or internal infundibuliform fascia of some authors, passes down upon the spermatic cord and is expanded over the scrotum, between the cre- master and tunica vaginalis. This structure, together with some sub-peritoneal reticulated tissue, passing down on the cord, forms the fascia propria of Sir Astley Cooper. The tunica vaginalis is a serous sac, which incloses each testis. It is separated from the one of the opposite side by the septum scroti, formed by a reflexion inwards of the dartos, and cellular tissue in the mesial line. The tunica vaginalis was, originally, a process of peritoneum, brought down by the testis, in its descent from the abdomen iiefore the seventh month, this gland is lodged on the psoas muscle, below the kidneys, it then begins to descend along tlie mgmnal canal, and finally passes into the scrotum where it is usually found at birth, or immediately aflr' Ihe process of the peritoneum which descends with the test.s becomes generally closed, at its upper part by adhesive inflammation, by which the lower portion s cu? off from the general peritoneal surface, and thus forms the ac of the tunica vaginalis. Should this obliteration not take p ace a congeiiital hernia may be formed hy It ^^^^ tunlea^aglnahs, or I