697 AMPUTATION. and morning, has obtained the character of an useful remedy. The testicle is liable to scrofulous disease, as before mentioned under Diseases of the Testis. In cases of syphihtic bubo in scrofulous subjects, the sore does not heal rapidly; on the contrary, there is a deep unhealthy wound which gives the surgeon much trouble. The most rapid mode of healing it consists in treating the system generally by preparations of iodine with sarsa- parilla. Chancre in scrofulous people does not admit of the free use of mercury, but is best remedied by the medicines which have been before alluded to. I would remark here, and intend it to apply generally, that the action of iodine and its preparations is stimulating, although in various degrees; and if in feverish plethoric individuals this medicine be employed indiscriminately and harshly, it is capable of doing serious mischief. Scrofula attacks the bones, and more especially the cancellated tissue, in which it throws out matter to fill up the interstices, and so as to cause their enlargement. By this disease synovial membranes are softened and thick- ened, and are converted sometimes into a gelatinous consistence. The brain is sometimes attacked by it, and exhibits large and numerous tubercles. Scrofulous sores upon the skin show themselves in many parts of the body, frequently upon the back and shoulders, sometimes upon the arms and legs. They are very troublesome to cure, and from this circumstance have often been submitted to the treatment of empirics. The plan which I have found to succeed best has been similar to that before mentioned in cases of scrofulous ulceration in the neck; and I feel certain, if the remedies proposed be administered carefully, that better success will be found to attend them than the impatient and inexpe- rienced could have imagined. ON AMPUTATION. Amputation is the cutting off a limb, or other portions of the body, as the mamma, penis, &c. Amputation is divided into the primary and secondary. Primary am- 30