436 PHYSIOLOGY. around it. The human discs, by allowing the blood to rest, have a tendency to collect together in rows by their flat surface, like rolls of money. The pale corpusdes are fewer than the red, and generally of a larger size ; they are more spherical, present an uneven surface, and are found to contain one or more granules. They may be considered as transitional, or undeveloped red corpuscles. The coagulation of the blood is owing to the tendency of the fibrine to take on the solid form. In inflammation the clot often presents a bufi'ed appearance, which is ex- plained in two or three ways : either the blood coagulating more slowly, more time is allowed for the subsidence of the red particles, leaving some fibrine at the surface free from them; or the red globules unite more firmly and rapidly, and sink sooner; or, the contraction of the fibrine being stronger, it squeezes out of its meshes the red globules, which sink by their gravity, and retains the pale ones at the top, they being much lighter. Arterial blood is now considered to coagulate rather sooner than venous. Coagulation is promoted or accelerated by heat slightly above the natural temperature: also by exposure to air, increased extent of surface, agitation, and by faintness, as in haemorrhages. Coagulation is retarded by cold, exclu- sion of air, copious dilution with water, caustic potash and soda, and acids. Circulation of the Blood.—The blood is returned from the upper part of the body by the superior vena cava, from the inferior part by the inferior cava, and from the heart itself by the coronary vein to the right auricle. This contracts and discharges its contents into the right ven- tricle : when completely filled, the right ventricle contracts; by that contraction, its tricuspid valve is brought into action, and prevents the blood returning into the aui'icle, and the contents are propelled through the pulmonary artery, and its ramification to the lungs. From the lungs the blood is returned by the four pulmqnary veins to the left auricle, which, being distended, now contracts, and throws the blood into the left ventricle. The left ventricle then contracts, its mitral valve closing the auriculo-ven- tricular opening, and the blood is propelled through the