« DESCRIPTION OF THE TISSUES. 427 Internally the long bones present a more or less circular canal, filled with marrow, the principal use of which ap- pears to be to keep the cavity of the bone warm, to make it lighter, and to carry the blood-vessels which enter at the foramina to the more distant parts of the bone. The flat bones, with the exception of the sternum, have very little cancellated structure, and more of the vitreous; whilst in the mixed bones the two structures are about equally balanced, and though there may exist an internal cavity, it does not fulfil the same functions as the medullary cavity of the long bones. Examined by the microscope, bone presents a large number of canals, varying from 3^0*^ to 2 Ao^li inch in diameter. These canals are larger in the internal portions of the bones than in the external. Their name is derived from their first describer, Clopton Havers. Each Haver- sian canal is surrounded by a number of concentric rings. The Haversian canals run parallel with the longitudinal axis of the bone in most places, and from them at right angles run numerous much smaller canals (canaliculi), leading to the surface of the bone. Between the concen- tric lamellae that surround the Haversian canals, are seen numerous small specks, that appear solid, but are in reality hollow : these are named lacunae. The bones are supplied freely with blood from two principal sources; the one being the periosteum, and the other the internal vessels that ramify throughout the marrow. It is doubtful whether they have any nervous supply; but a small twi"' has been seen entering the nutritious foramen of the tibia*! Bone is tolerably easily reproduced when destroyed by disease or mechanical injury. Muscle.—The structure of muscle is generally considered to be of three kinds, the first being that of voluntary mus- cle, the second that of involuntaiy muscle iu general the third being that of the heart. Muscle may, in general terms, be styled the structure, bv means of which all the movements of the body are performed. Though in itself by no means strong as regards structure, yet under the influence of the will or other stimuli the power it exhibits IS prodigious. And this must be still greater in reality than in appearance, power in nearly all instances being sacrificed to give increased extent of motion