704 SURGERY. of the bone. Some have recommended also the removal of the bead of the fibula; this is highly objectionable, for in doing so, the knee- joint will most probably be opened into, and the insertions of the biceps and the external lateral ligament are destroyed. Some difficulty is occasionally experienced in tying the anterior tibial artery, from its divided extremity retracting through the interosseous space. The artery may be easily exposed by dividing the interosseous membrane. The leg may be amputated through the lower part of the tubercle of the tibia; sufficient attachment will be left to the ligamentum patellae to preserve the action of the extensor muscles. Amputation in the middle third of the leg may be per- formed by the circular amputation, or by making a flap from the posterior part of the limb. Amputation in the lower third is in general performed in the latter way. The flap operation is performed as follows: The limb being placed nearly in the horizontal position, with the fibula upwards, the catlin is pushed through the leg, from the outer to the inner side, close to and behind the bones, and then carried downwards and outwards, so as to form the flap posteriorly of suf- ficient length; a semicircular incision is now made across the front of the limb, meeting at each extremity the commencement of the first wound. The integuments being dissected back, the limb is to be removed, as in the circular operation. If any tendons or nerves pro- ject, they should be at once cut short. Partial amputation of the foot.—Mr. Hey has recom- mended a portion of the foot to be removed, in cases of accident or disease, at the tarso-metatarsal articulation. To this we are guided by the projection of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. From this point forward, make an in- cision about an inch in length, then continue it forwards and inwards, across the dorsum of the foot, terminating it in front of the first tarso-metntarsal articulation, along the inner side of which a straight incision is made, correspond- ing to that on the outer side. Dissect back the integu- ments fronv the dorsum of the foot, and proceed to cut through the articulations; this is best done by commencing on the outer side and following the line of articulation. The joints liaving been opened into, the anterior part of the foot should be depressed, and a flap made from the sole, by carrying the knife forwards along the under sur- face of the foot. The anterior part of the foot having been