312 BEGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. versalis faciei artery is sometimes wounded in blows on the clieek; it should be secured with a ligature. This artery, although described as a branch of the external carotid, is more correctly given as a branch of the tem- poral artery, from which it almost constantly proceeds. Arteria temporalis superficialis is smaller than the internal maxillary, but runs more in the direction of the primitive trunk. From its origin, the temporal artery ascends through the parotid gland in front of the meatus auditorius externus; escapes from its upper margin, crosses the zygoma near its root and directly in front of the tragus of the external ear, ascends slightly forwards on the tem- poral aponeurosis, and about an inch or an inch and a half above the zygoma, terminates by dividing into two branches, the anterior and posterior temporal arteries. The temporal artery first lies deep in the parotid gland; as it crosses the zygoma it is superficial, and may be felt or compressed here during life; above this it is crossed by the attrahens aurem muscle, and is covered by a pro- longation of the cervical fascia; still higher up it is covered only by the integuments. In the parotid gland the temporal artery gives ofl", generally, the transverse facial artery, and a few branches to the gland, the external ear, and articulation of the lower jaw. Immediately after crossing the zygoma it sends off the following: Ramus temporalis medius, very small, and not constant, arises from the deep surface of the temporal artery, perforates the temporal aponeurosis, and suppUes the temporal muscle, anastomosing ■with the branches of the deep temporal arteries from the internal maxillary. , , , , j ^ Eamus temporalis posterior passes backwards and upwards to supplv the scalp, and anastomose with the branches of the posterior aural and occipital arteries, and those of the opposite Ramus temporalis anterior runs upwards and forwards, supplies the integuments and muscles of the forehead, and anastomoses with the frontal branches of the ophthalmic artery. The anterior temporal artery is that usually selected for the per- formance of arteriotomy, when the operation is required, as m cases of violent inflammation of the brain and membranes, deep- seated ophthalmia, apoplexy, &c. The patient being I'.'aced in the sitting posture, with his side turned towards the light, the surgeon feels for the pulsation of the vessel. Ha\ing ascertained its precise situation, he fixes it firmly between the first and