322 UEGIONAL AND SUKGICAL ANATOMY. Sylvius, and then, winding upwards and outwards, di^ades into numerous branches, which, breaking down m the pia mater, supply chiefly the anterior and middle lobes ot the brain. Pew circumstances have more influence on the operations performed by the surgeon on the arteries of the neck and upper extremity. Whether for the removal of aneurism, or for the restormg of arterial haemorrhage in cases of wounds, where the principal branches of the carotid arteries are wounded, than the tree - anastomosis which exists between all the vessels of the brain. In the operation for aneurism, this fact should hamsh from the mind all apprehensions of a deficient circulation, so long as the arteries of one side remain perfect; nay, we might almost venUire to say, as long as even one vessel is left to convey the blood to the brain. ANATOMY OF THE PHAKYNS AND MOUTH. The examination of these parts is best conducted by detaching them from the anterior part of the vertebral column. Tor this purpose make a transverse mcision through the trachea and oesophagus, a httle above the sternum and down to the vertebral column; raise these from the spine, together with the vessels and nerves on either side] dissect them gradually upwards as far as the basilar process of the occipital bone; now either separate the head at the articulation with the atlas, or saw it hrough from below upwards, by placmg^the saw nearly flat iipon the vertebrae, inclining its edge at the same time a little backwards. The section having been made, the pharynx should be first studied. THE PHABYNX is a musculo-membranous bag or .f ^7°^^'J^^^^^^ riorly, and extends from the occipital bone to the fourth or Mth cervical vertebra, where it terminates m the cesophagus, Sactly opposite the termination of the larynx m the tracliea uTs expanded above and in the centre, but is contrac ed towards its termination. Posteriorly it rests on the vertebral column, with the intervention of the anter or common ligament, the rectus capitis anticus major and ongus colli muscles. It is connected with these pam by a quantity of loose reticulated ceUular tissue, which allows of its free motion.