680 SURGERY. the United States; in some instances the description is copied almost verbatim. Some diseases met with in that country, but not in our own, are intentionally omitted. EPIDERMOID TUMOURS include verruca, clavus, and icthyosis cornea. Verruca, a wart, is too familiar to require much de- scription. Its structure is radiated, inorganised, and it is produced from the vessels of the skin beneath it. It is most common in young persons. It may be removed by caustics of various kinds. The milder preparations will generally succeed if persevered in. Clavus, a corn, is a hard insensible substance, most common on the feet, caused usually by the pressure and friction of a shoe or boot. They are more common in the rich than the poor, and in females than in males. They result from irritation of the skin, which throws out the fluid to form the corn. Sometimes on the great toe a com attains a large size; severe inflammation sets in, and ulce- ration has extended into the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, a disease tedious in its progress and difiicuit to heal. Corns may be removed by the application of acidum aceticum fortius, caustics, frequent bathing in warm water, and many mechanical contrivances, which either remove them or take all pressure off them. Icthyosis cornea consists in the formation of horny tumours in various parts of the body. This disease is unconnected with syphiUs, and does not include those horny excrescences which sometimes attend that afiection. These cases are exceedingly rare. DERMOID TUMOURS include lepoides, keloides, and eiloides. Lepoides (bark-like) is a disease of the skin which pro- duces scaly crusts or bark-like roughness of the skin, most common on the face and in aged persons. It is slow in progress, leads to ulceration, but shortens hfe in no marked degree. It may be removed by caustics or the knife. Keloides (crab-like) is a disease in -which there is a tumour, from which red vascular processes extend, re- sembling crab's-claws. The red colour, however, is not