332 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. THE SUBCLAVIAN AKTERY. The subclavian arteries, like the carotids, differ on the right and left sides. Arteria suhclavia sinistra arises from the extreme left of the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta, oppo- site the left side of the second dorsal vertebra, and close to the origin of the left carotid; it thence ascends almost perpendicularly out of the thorax into the neck, turns outwards and passes behind the scalenus anticus muscle. In this part of its course the left subclavian artery lies deep, being covered by the cone of the left pleura and the apex of the left lung, -which he also a Httle to its outer side. Anterior to it are also the left par vagum, the left carotid, the left internal jugular vein and vena innominata, also the sternum, first rib, and clavicle, the sterno-mastoid, Bterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles. Posterior to it are the spinal column, the longus colli muscle, the inferior cervical gangUon of the sympathetic and the thoracic duct; the oesophagus lies also behind it, but a httle to its right side. The left recurrent nerve hooks round the arch of the aorta, close to the origin of the left subclavian artery, and then ascends internal and posterior to it. Arteria suhclavia dextra arises from the arteria inno- minata, opposite the right sterno-clavicular articulation, ascends outwards, and passes, like the' left subclavian, behind the scalenus anticus muscle. In this part of its course, the right subclavian artery is much more super- ficial than the left; it is covered by the integuments, platysma, cervical fascia, the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, by small branches of veins and nerves, and by the conflux of the internal jugular and subclavian veins, which unite in front of it, but towards its outer part, to form the right vena innominata. It is more immediately invested by a dense layer of cellular substance or fascia, continuous inferiorly with the fibrous layer of the pericardium, and superiorly with the sheath of the carotid vessels. On removing a part of this, the subclavian artery is exposed between the conflux of the internal jugular and subclavian veins on the outer side, and the carotid artery on the inner side, forming a vascular