TUMOUItS or THE CELLTJIAR MEMBRANE. 681 present in every variety of this affection. The species are three, first, a white permament elevation of the skin, resembling the eschar from a burn; second, a spider-Hke pimple on the face; the keloides of Alibert. Eiloides (coU-like) is a disease in which there is an elevation of the skin in the form of rolls or coils. It occurs in scrofulous habits, is inconvenient and dangerous, but is at the same time extremely rare. Molluscum, described by Dr. Bateman, might be classed under the head of dermoid tumours. It consists of nu- merous pendulous tumours, connected most with the skin of the head and face. It yields to no medicines. TUMOURS OF THE CELLULAR MEMBRANE. Steatoma (a wen) is a tumour which varies considerably in size, from that of a pea up to many pounds in weight. Its external surface is smooth and regular, its consistence firm; the colour of the skin is not altered, and no pain attends it; generally it is moveable under the skin and on the surface of the muscles over which it lies. Its colour is slightly yellow; it is inclosed in a cellular coat, from which processes pass into the tumour, separating it into lobules. A steatome occurring in the shoulder and neck has sometimes a softer consistence. This tumour does no harm, except by its local inconvenience. There is no remedy for it but excision. The cellular tissue is liable to the formation of tumour, having a fibrous arrangement. Its colour is whitish, con- sistence firm, and texture laminated. It causes incon- venience, chiefly by its mechanical effects interfering with the free motion of the muscles. The painful subcutaneous tubercle has been described as a swelling of a nerve, or at least as a tumour pressing upon a nerve. It is hard, and generally of a small size, and seldom produces any elevation of the surface. There is no discoloration of the skin, but much pain beneath it of a variable character. It is most common in the lower extremities. Sometimes inflammation attacks the part affected, suppuration and ulceration ensue, which have been known to destroy life. Generally it is not of a malignant character, but still is difficult to relieve. 29 ยง