422 PHYSIOLOGY. becoming finally converted into the various structures, such as bone, cartilage, muscle, ligament, &c. Each cell has a proper investing membrane, or cell-wall, enclosing contents which may be fluid or sohd ; each cell in addition contains generally one or more nuclei. In the most simple modifications of cells there is hardly any discernible difference between the animal and vegetable kingdoms. Each cell appears to have the property of secretion and nutrition,—that is to say, it can secrete or form new con- tents varying in properties, or it can enlarge, alter, or develop its form through a long series of changes, termi- nating in permanent structure. Cells also appear to be capable of reproduction, i. e., one cell can develop one or more new cells either within or outside of its own proper coat. It may be considered that the peculiar properties of cells do not come into action except under the influence of the vital stimulus. The vital principle of cells of vegetables may, however, remain dormant for years and yet be eventually awakened by a combination of circumstances, but that of the cells composing animal bodies must be vivified at once, or otherwise the cells in question wiU never be able to discharge their functions, and must soon become absorbed and decomposed. The vital stimulus itself has not yet been demonstrated, but certain other well-known stimuli appear to be necessary, such as heat, light, and electricity; there are some others, (called adjuvant stimuli,) which, though highly useful, are not entirely indispensable, such as moisture, &c. JEpitkelium.—Th.e whole surface of the body, as well as the walls of the different cavities, is covered entirely by a thin, transparent, well-defined structure, named differently according to the parts which it covers, or to which it is applied; thus, the structure covering the external surface of the body is called the epidermis, whilst that investing the mucus canals is called epithelium. These both, how- ever, differ somewhat from the epithelium of serous and mucous membranes, a fifth class being formed by the epithelium of the vascular canals. Epithelium is supplied with neither vessels nor nerves, though it is nevertheless composed of organised structure.