442 PHYSIOLOG'i;. from surrounding objects, wliich fall on the cornea, are in part reflected, and thus contribute to form the briUiancy of the eye. The transparent cornea refracts the remaining rays, and thus increases the intensity of light; the rays then pass through the anterior chamber, pupil, and posterior chamber to the lens. The number of rays which fall on the lens is regulated by the iris, which contracts or dilates, to allow more or less light to pass through the pupil, according as an object may be more or less lighted. Those rays that fall on the iris are reflected, and, returning through the cornea, exhibit the colours of the iris. The crystalline lens, both from its structure and form, very powerfully refracts the rays, and collects them into a focus, in the vitreous humour; from which point they diverge, and are spread out upon the retina in the bottom of the eye, where the impression is received, and conveyed along the optic nerve to the brain, and produces vision. The object is depicted in an inverted manner at the bottom of the eye. The conjunctiva protects the anterior surface of the eye; it secretes a fluid which mixes with the tears, and seems to have the same use ; it supports the pressure when the eye is moved, and being always pohshed and humid, it gives much facility to motion. The sclerotic is evidently to protect the interior parts of the eye, and to serve besides as a point of insertion for the muscles that move the eye. The choroid membrane is the most vascular coat of the eye, allowing the ramifications of the vessels, and secreting the pigmentum nigrum. The pigmentum nigrum absorbs the light after it has traversed the retina, and thus prevents dazzling. The dark matter, called uvea, on the posterior surface of the iris, is to absorb those rays that may be reflected by the pohshed surface of the crystaUine lens. The use of the ciliary processes is not perfectly under- stood. By some they are considered to secrete the aqueous humour. Haller thinks that they maintain the lens m the most advantageous position. Some physiologists think that they are muscular, and are able to produce changes m the convexity of the lens. The eyehroivs guard the eyes from external violence by the projection which they form; they protect the eyes from