SUEGERY. 450 cleared of all foreign matter, and the edges brought together: in a few hours inflammation takes place, and lymph is poured out, which glues the edges of the wound together: in the course of a few hours more, vessels shoot into the coagulable lymph, which thus becomes organised, and completes the adhesion. Mr. Hunter conceived that wounds are sometimes united by the fibrine of the blood, without any inflammatory action: this opinion is not generally entertained. Adhesions frequently form without wounds, as in inflammation of serous membranes. The time for the completion of the process of adhesion is variable; in some cases it is perfected in from six to twelve hours, in others it requires some days for its completion. Coagulable lymph is largely composed of albumen and fibrine, and is hence named by some authors, albumbio- fibrine. Suppuration.—In this termination of inflammation, a fluid named pus is formed from the minute vessels of the part. Pus is a fluid of a whitish yellow colour, of the consistence of cream, of a mawkish taste, and is inodorous. It is composed of minute globules floating in a thin trans- parent fluid. It sinks in water, and will not readily unite with it. It is coagulable by a solution of hydro- chlorate of ammonia; forms a soapy fluid with the fixed alkalies; a gelatinous compound with ammonia. Puru- lent matter is more easily secreted by mucous than other surfaces. The secretion from them, when inflamed, is first thin and watery, and then resembles mucus, and finally becomes purulent. When pus is secreted in the interior of the body, it is usually contained in a bag or cyst. This is formed by the efiiision of lymph, which is poured into and condenses the surrounding cellular tissue. The col- lection of matter thus formed is termed an abscess, and is called acute, to distinguish it from those chronic abscesses, or collections of matter, which form without much active inflammation, and generally in connection with diseased vertebrae. In these a cyst is either wholly wanting, or is imperfectly marked. A suppurating surface generally pre- sents a granulated appearance, and indeed it would appear that an approach to this condition is essential to the formation of pus, as all structures assume it before puru- lent matter is formed. The name now apphed by some to