ARTERTA ILIACA INTERNA. 3Qg In the operations for fistula in ano, piles, &c. some of these branches are in general wounded; if large, serious hemorrhage may be the result. Under these circumstances, the surgeon should, if the application of cold or pressure to the part be insufficient to re- strain the bleeding, at once look for and secure the bleeding vessel with the tenaculum, if this can be effected; where such it impossible, the rectum should be plugged. As the vessel may bleed into the rectum, and so escape observation, until so much blood has been lost as to prove fatal to the patient, the prac- titioner should always be on his guard after the performance of these operations. 4. ArtericB vesicates, irregular as to origin, size, and number, proceed to the inferior fundus of the bladder where they are principally lost. The foetal umbUicai artery forms one of the vesical arteries in the adult. 5. Arteria vaginalis runs along the anterior and lateral Fi^^'Vf ^""^ suppHes It with branches, as also tlie bladder and rectum, anastomosing with branches of the pudic artery. 6. Arteria iiterina passes forwards and inwards, runs between tbe laminae of the broad ligament of the uterus which It supplies, sending some branches to the ovary and fallopian tube. During pregnancy the uterine aiteries become much enlarged and tortuous. The external branches of the internal iliac are the obturator, gluteal, sciatic, and internal pudic. I. Arteria obturatoria vel thyroidea runs downwards and forwards in the cavity of the pelvis, below and internal to the external iliac artery and vein, and accompanied by the obturator nerve, which lies in front of it, passes out through the upper part of the obturator foramen into the superior and inner part of the thigh, where it divides into numerous branches which supply the obturator and ad- ductor muscles and anastomose with the branches of the internal circumflex artery. The obturator artery generally sends olf a branch which enters tbe hip.joint tlLS the notch in the inner part of the acetabulum, runs aW he igamentum teres, and supplies the head of the fimur Ihe obturator artery frequently arises from tl e pi^aZ' tZlu wZ t\IrT' the o'feurato; S:re; or'lurL^'^l e^rl^oVu^eT.e^T '\ l^ernia. when such exists, fortuttdy^^^^ IG ยง