ANATOMY. 128 spongiosum, by forcing the blood into its cells. TrANSVEBSUS PERINiEI. Or. Inside of the tuber ischii. Ins. Central point of the pe- rineum. Use. To support the centre of the periaeum. Levator ani. Or. Posterior part of the symphysis pubis, ob- turator fascia, the ilium above the thyroid foramen, the inner s\irface of the ischium, and its spiaous process. Ins. Anterior or pubic fibres into the central point of the pe- rineum and fore part of the rec- tum ; middle fibres into the side of the rectum; the posterior fibres into the back part of the rectum, and to the os coc- cygis. Use. To raise the rectum in opposition to the inspiratory muscles; to close the rectum, and to compress the vesiculse seminales and prostate gland; to raise the perineum and com- press the membranous portion of the urethra. Compressor uRETHRiE. Or. By a tendon from the inside of the symphysis pubis. Ins. Below the membranous portion of the urethra, into the narrovr tendinous line, which be- comes lost in the central point of the perineum. Use. To compress or raise the membranous portion of the urethra. The muscles of the two sides are also named Wilson's muscles. Theii- existence is denied by some anatomists. Compressor urethra trans- VERSUS, or Mr. Guthrie's muscle. Or. By a tendon from the junc- tion of the ramus of the ischium, and pubis of each side. Ins. Some of the fibres cross from one side to the other above the membranous portion of the urethra and some beneath it, and cover it along its whole extent; sometimes there is a middle tendinous raphe into which they are inserted. Use. To compress the urethra. CoccTGEUs. Or. Inner sur- face of the spine of the ischium. Ins. Extremity of tlie sacrum and side of the coccyx. Use. To support the coccyx. MUSCLES OF THE ] Sphincter ani. Or. Ano- coccygeal ligament. Ins. Rapne, superficial fascia, and common central point of the perineum. Use. To close the anus. Levator ani. Or. Posterior part of the symphysis pubis, be- low the true ligaments of the bladder, obturator fascia, ilium above the thyroid foramen, the EMAIE PERINEUM. inner surface, and spine of ischium. Ins. The same as in the male. Use. To raise the anus and compress the vagina. CoccTGETJS, as in the male. Transversalis perin^i, as in the male. Erector clitoridis. Or. Inner surface of the tuber ischii,