674 SUKGEEY. versal opinion, that diffused aneurism should be treated by this plan alone. Aneurismal varix and varicose aneurism are nearly- similar; they are both caused by a wound in -which both the artery and vein are implicated; the two vessels being in close apposition, a communication is established between them, and thus the arterial blood passes into the veins of the limb. On examination, the veins are found much distended, the extremity swollen, and of a darker colour than natural, the artery above the communication beats violently, its branches below this point pulsate feebly, by applying the ear over the seat of communication a bruit de soufflet, or sometimes a hissing or purring sound, is heard. If in the case of aneurismal varix or varicose aneurism at the bend of the elbow, a ligature be applied round the forearm, and the veins above this be emptied by pressure, they will immediately fiU again. The difference between aneurismal varix and varicose aneurism is this, viz.. in the former, there is immediate contact between the' two vessels, and the blood flows directly from the artery into the vein; in the latter there is a communication between the two vessels, but there is a sac interposed. Thus the blood flows from the artery into the sac, and from the sac into the vein. This gives rise to some difference in the treatment. An operation may be resorted to in varicose aneurism where the sac theatens to burst, but no operation is admissible in aneurismal varix. The treatment best adapted to both affections is that of moderate compression by means of bandages, and the keeping the limb as much at rest as possible. Bissecting aneurism was first described by Mr. Shekleton, and more lately by Mr. Guthrie; it is pro- duced by the blood making its way between the coats of an artery passing down within the sheath and then entering the vessel at some remote point. The treatment is the same as that for spontaneous aneurism. Amurism by anastomosis, {ncevus matermis.)—ihi& disease consists, as its name implies, of a dilatation ot anastomoeing or capillary vessels; or, according to others, is composed chieflv of a number of cells, into which tlie blood is poured by the arteries, and from which it is removed by the veins. It appears in general on some