342 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY, process, where it terminates in the radial and ulnar arteries. AXILLARY OR SCAPULO-THORACIC REGION. Under this head is included the axillary cavity, with its different boundaries, viz., anterior, posterior, superior, and inferior. The axillary cavity is a conical or pyramidal-shaped space, formed between the scapula and trunlc. It is bounded anteriorly by the pectoralis major and minor muscles; posteriorly by the scapula, subscapularis, teres major, and latissimus dorsi muscles; internally by the ribs, covered by the serratus magnus ; and externally by the neck of the humerus. Its apex, turned upwards, corresponds to the coracoid process of the scapula, its base or floor directed downwards, is formed by the axillary fascia. On stripping the integuments from tlae floor of the axilla, a dense fascia (the axillary fascia) is brought into view, attached in front to the edge of the pectoralis major muscle, behind to the lower margin of the latissimus dorsi, lost internally on the outer surface of the thoracic parietes, and externally continuous with the brachial aponeurosis. This fascia, although liable to much variety, is in general strong and well marked; it connects the walls of the axilla together, and assists in preserving the contents of the axillary cavity from pressure. It has much importance in practice, as it has the effect of resisting aneurisoial or other tumours and abscesses, from making their way inferiorly; these, therefore, press upwards, and are frequently found to ascend into the neck, causing displacement of the clavicle, forcing backwards the scapula, and resembling diseases of the cervical region; not unfrequently axillary abscesses open in the neck above the clavicle, or in the smaU triangular space below this bone, and between the pectoraUs major and deltoid muscles. On removing this fascia, the axillary cavity is found to be filled with a quantity of fat and cellular tissue, in which are lodged numerous lymphatic glands, with the axillary vessels and nerves, and their principal branches. The nerves of Wrisberg are first met with ; they cross the floor of the axilla, proceeding from the second and third inter- costal nerves, and are lost in the integuments of the inside of the arm, as far down as the inner condyle. The cellular tissue of the axilla communicates freely with that of the neck, by means of a triangular opening between the