ANATOMY. 112 nud pharynx, and, according to Mr. Skey, is useful in the act of sucking. DiGASTKic. Or. A groove in the OS temporis, internal to the mastoid process. Ins. A rough depression on the inner side of the base of the jaw, near the symphysis. Use. To raise the os hyoides and draw it either backwards or forwards, and when this bone is fixed it depresses the lower jaw. The central' tendon perforates tlie stylo-hyoid muscle, and is attached to the cornn of the os hyoides by a strong fascia. Mylo-htoideus. Or. Mylo- hyoid ridge on the inner surface of side of the inferior maxilla. Im. Body of os hyoides, and middle tendinous line common to it and its fellow. . Use. To raise the os hyoides and press the tongue upwards, or depress the lower jaw. Genio-hyoideus. Or. inner side of the chin, above the digas- tricus. , ., Ins. Body of the os hyoides. Use. To raise the os hyoides upwards and forwards, to helj) in protruding the tongue, and to depress the lower jaw when the hyoid bone is fixed. Hyo-glossus. Or. Coniu and part of the body of the os hyoides. Ins. The side of the tongue, along its entire length. Use. To depress the side ol the tongue, and make its surface convex. . Genio-hyo-glossus. Or. Emi- nence inside the chin, below the frsenum luiguse. Ins. Tiie mesial line of the tongue from its apex to its base, and into the body and lesser cornn of the os hyoides. Use. To raise the os hyoides, and protrude the tongue; but some of the fibres can retract, others in the middle render it concave: it may also depress the lower jaw. . LiNGTJALis consists of fasci- culi of fibres, running from the base to the apex of the tongue, and lying between the genio-hyo- glossus and the hyo and stylo- glossi. Use. To shorten the tongue. STYLOID MUSCLES. Stylo-hyoibetjs. Or. The outer side of the styloid process, near its base. Ins. Cornu and body of the OS hyoides, aud into the fascia connecting the tendon of the di- crastric to this bone. ° Use. To draw the os hyoides upwards and backwards. Stylo-glossus. Or. Styloid process, near the tip, aud the stvlo-maxillary ligament. Ins. Side of the tongue, as far as the tip. Use. To draw the tongue upwards and to one side, and to raise the apex of the tongue behind the upper incisor teeth. ^ • . Stylo-i'Haryngexjs. Or. Jiack part of the root of the styloid ^^^S^^" Side of pharynx, the cornu of the os hyoides, aud thy- roid cartilage. Use. To raise the pharynx, dilate it, and draw it forward.