SURGERY, h52 its interior, and thus the hernia will be returned without the strangulation having been removed. UMBILICAL HERNIA, OR EXOMPHALOS. This species of hernia is but rarely seen in the adult; it is, however, of frequent occurrence in children soon after birth, in consequence of the cries of the child, and the open state of the umbilicus. It then protrudes through this aperture formed by the umbilical cord, to the distance of an inch or more, and may be distinctly recognised through its coverings. The disease, in adults termed umbilical hernia, is in the great majority of cases a ventral hernia, as it protrudes not through the umbilicus but above or below it, through the linea alba, which here, from the divergence of the recti muscles, presents a less degree of resistance than beneath the umbilicus. In corroboration of this state- ment, the umbilicus, in almost all cases of umbihcal hernia in adults, may be seen on one or other of the surfaces of the tumour, which is not the case in the true umbilical hernia. . Occasionally umbilical hernia may present itself in the adult, but this occurs only in cases where, from the pro- trusion of a hernia in infancy, or from other causes the umbilical opening has lost that tendency to contract which it possesses after birth; once closed, this opening becomes the least yielding portion of the abdominal parietes. ^\ hen it occurs in men, it is usually dependent upon corpulency, and is not rare in women from pregnancy. The anatomy of umbilical hernia is simple. It is covered by the integuments, superficial fascia, and peri- toneum. The peritoneum, and sometimes the superficial fascia, become absorbed, so that the coverings of the hernia are exceedingly thin. Much care then wiU be required on the part of the surgeon when operating, nor to wound the intestine. Some have altogether denied the existence of a hernial sac in this form of hernia, but there can be no doubt of its existence, at least for a short time after the formation of the disease. When reducible, it should be at once returned, and re- tained in the abdomen by "means of one half of an ivory ball " or a piece of cork cut in this shape, "applied to