33 THE TR0CHANTER3. termed the digital fossa, into which several muscles are inserted. The trochanter minor, smaller and somewhat triangular, is situated lower and somewhat at the posterior part of the femur. From it three lines proceed ; two upwards, named inter-trochariteric, and one downwards, which terminates in the linea aspera. The body or shaft of the bone is directed obliquely downwards and inwards, somewhat quadrilateral at the upper and lower parts, but triangular in the centre. It presents an anterior, posterior, internal and external sur- face. Tlie anterior surface gives attachment by its upper three fourths to the crureus, in the lower part to the sub-crureus. The external surface, largest, gives attach- ment to the vastus externus ; the internal surface is covered by the vastus internus. The posterior surface is narrow in the centre, but expanded above and below; on it we see the linea aspera sometimes divided by a groove into two; it arises by two lines: the external one most prominent proceeds from the trochanter major, and gives attachment to the vastus externus and short head of the biceps, and to the tendon of the gluteus maximus ; the inner line arises from the trochanter minor, and gives attachment to the pectineus, vastus internus, and the three adductors. By the convergence of these lines the linea a,5pera is formed, which divides iuferiorly in two ridges, which pass down to the condyles; the external one is strongest, and best marked. The condyles are two : one external, and one internal. They enter into the composition of the knee-joint. In front a depression separates them, named the anterior mter-condyloid fossa, which gives lodgment to the pa- tella ; there is a deep depression between them posteriorly, named posterior inter-condyloid fossa, which lodges the popliteal artery, but is nearly filled up by the ligament of Wmslow. On the outer surface of the outer condyle IS a well-marked eminence for the attacliment of the external lateral ligament, and below it a depression for the tendon of the poplita3us. On the inner surface of the inner condyle is a large pro- minence, giving attachment to the tendon of the adductor magnus and internal lateral ligament. 2ยง