46 ANATOMY. The Os Innominatum presents in its contracted part an excavation termed the acetabulum, which receives the head of the femur; it is a deep, cup-like cavity, nearly circular in shape, and surrounded by a projecting Up of bone, strong and prominent towards its upper and back part, projecting but little anteriorly, where it is formed by the OS pubis, and altogether deficient internally and inferiorly towards the thyroid foramen, where it presents a deep notch, converted by the cotyloid and transverse ligament into a foramen, which serves for the transmission of vessels to supply the head of the femur; its cavity is Kned by cartilage,' except at the anterior inferior part, where we see a rough irregular surface for giving origin to the ligaraentum teres, and lodgment to a quantity of fatty substance, formerly called Haversian glands. This car- tila<^e is thicker at the superior part of the acetabalum, where it rests on the upper surface of the head of the femur, and is of much greater thickness at the circum- ference than in the centre, like all cartilages Immg concave surfaces the depth of this cavity is from an inch to an inch and a half. . . „ . ^, ■ The parts of the Femur which assist in forming tliis articulation are the head and part of the neck. The head of the femur is of a somewhat spherical shape, covered by cartUage to the extent of about two thirds of a sphere; the cartilage extends more outwardly on its superior than its inferior surface : nearly in its centre, but a htt e posterior and inferior to it, is a depression for receiving the insertion of the ligamentum teres. The neck of the femur superiorly is of short extent, and concave for the purpose of allowing of abduction of the femur; inferiorly it is also excavated but is much longer; anterior surface of the neck ot the femur is nearly plane, and presents numerous forannna for the transmission of blood-vessels: the posterior surface is deeply excavated to aUow of rotation outwards, is much more extensive than the anterior, is rough from the passage of blood-vessels, and gives insertion about its centre to the capsular ligament. The neck differs in the femalc subject: it is much longer and more rounded, not so triangular, and is directed more horizontally. In the old siibject it becomes horizontal, is shortened considerably, and under- goes a process of interstitial absorption, which removes