MALIGNANT DISEASES. 729 was formed. As there is a species of irregular hectic fever setting in -with a peculiar leaden hue of the integu- ments, the disease progresses, the ulceration extends, until at length the patient sinks beneath her sufferings, and the repeated discharges of blood, or dies from the disease having extended itself to the thoracic viscera. There is but one plan of treatment for cancer that holds out any prospect of success, which is extirpation; and this per- formed, too, at an early period of the disease, before the contitution becomes infected, or any of the important structures in the neighbourhood of the disease are impli- cated. Various remedies have been resorted to from time to time to alleviate the patient's sufferings, or correct the discharge; of these opiates will be found the most useful. The carrot, charcoal, or hemlock poultice applied to the ulcer will be found often beneficial. In some cases cancer increases slowly, so that if the patient be already advanced in hfe, she may live for many years without much suffering, and ultimately die of some other affection. In such, an operation may be dispensed with. When a cancer returns after the operation has been performed, it usually appears in the site of the wound formed by the operation, or in the surrounding lymphatic glands. Cancer commences on a mucous membrane, as, for example, on the free border of the lip in the male subject in the form of a tumour, a crack, fissure, or an ulcerated surface. Sometimes a horny excrescence ushers in the disease. The pyloric extremity of the stomach and lowej' part of the rectum are peculiarly liable to cancer. The existence of numerous glands in those situations no doubt predisposes to the disease. Cancer may appear in the skin, as in mucous membrane; in general it attacks one of those warty excrescences, so often met with in the integuments, and especially in those of the face. Medullary sarcoma is known by numerous appellations, such as, soft Cancer, Fiaujoid disease, Fungus hcematodes, Cephaloma, and Cerehriform sarcoma, &c. This disease usually appears at the earUer periods of hfe, but there is no age nor structure wholly exempt from its attacks. It has been met with in the eye, the thoracic and abdominal viscera, the testes, extremities, indeed in almost every part of the body. In the extremities the disease begins with a small 31 ยง