SURGEaY. 536 Immediately after the descent of the testis, the upper part of the tunica vaginalis is closed by the adhesive in- flammation, and ultimately degenerates into loose cellular tissue; whilst the lower part forms a distinct sac (the tu- nica vaginalis), retaining all its original properties.' Now it is evident that should an intestine be protruded down- wards before this obliteration has taken place, it will descend into the tunica vaginahs, or bag of the perito- neum surrounding the testis. Congenital hernia may be distinguished from common inguinal hernia by the greater difficulty of distinguishing the testis in it, "in consequence of the tunica vaginahs being thicker than the common hernial sac, the situation of the gland with respect to the hernia, namely, above and behind it: the wasting of the testis from the pressure of the hernia upon it, and by the adhesions which so fre- quently form between the hernia and the testis; as may be ascertained by attempting to return the former into the abdomen, when the testis will be found to ascend with it. The operation for the rehef of strangulated congenital hernia differs but Uttle from that recommended for the more common species. Sir A. Cooper advises three inches of the tunica vaginalis to be left undivided below, so as that the testis may be covered, and unnecessary irritation avoided. Care must be taken, in opening the sac, that the vessels of the cord, which are frequently spread out on its anterior surface, are not wounded. INFANTILE OR ENCYSTED HERNIA. In this form of the disease the hernia is also contained in the tunica vaginalis, but has an immediate covering derived from the lymph that has been poured out by nature, with a view to close the superior portion of the tunica vaginahs ; and this lymph may easily be mistaken for peritoneum. As we have already stated, immediately after the testis has descended into the scrotum, the process of obliteration commences in the upper part of the tunica vaginalis: a layer of coagulable lymph is thrown out, which adheres to the opposed surfaces* of the peritoneum ; against this layer of lymph the intestine is protruded. The lymph is sufficiently organised to prevent the intestine making its