396 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. between the heads of the soleus muscle, and at the lower edge of the popliteus muscle terminates by dividing into the anterior and posterior tibial artery. In this course the popliteal artery lies, first on the posterior surface of the femur with the intervention of a few muscular fibres and adipose tissue; in the middle on the ligamentum posticum of Winslow, from which it is frequently separated by one or two lymphatic glands;* and finally on the pophteus muscle ; it is bounded on either side by the lateral boun- daries of the pophteal space. The popliteal artery gives off five articular arteries and some muscular branches. 1 and 2. Arterica articuJares siiperiores, externa et interna. Ar-teria externa winds upwards and outwards from the popliteal artery above the external condyle of the femur close to the bone, supplies the neighbouring muscles on the extremity of the femur, and terminates by anastomosing in front of the patella with the other articu- lar arteries, the anastomotica magna from above, and the anterior tibial recurrent from below. Interna pursues a similar course to the preceding, but on the inner side of the femur, and terminates, like the other, on the anterior surface of the patella. 3. Arteria articularis media, yel azygos, proceeds from the anterior part of the popliteal artery, perforates the ligamentum posticum of Winslow, and supphes the in- terior of the knee-joint. 4 and 5. Arteries articulares inferiores, externa et interna. Externa runs upwards and outwards from the popliteal artery towards the outer side of the knee jomt, passes between the external lateral hgameut and the external semilunar cartilage in a groove in the latter, and terminates in supplying the knee-joint and surroundmg muscles, and in the anastomoses in front of the patella. Interna runs downwards and inwards below the internal condyle of the tibia, passes forwards between the internal lateral hgament and the bone, and terminates as the pre- * If one or both of these glands become enlarged, they may press backwards the popliteal artery, and thus form a tumour in the ham that may be niistfikeu for a popliteal aneurism; the diagnosis is not difficult. These glands sometimes suppurate and form a large abscess in the popliteal space.