5 ARTICULATIONS. when perfectly formed by successive layers of ossific matter, these boues exhibit an indurated external and internal table, with a cancellous structure between them, named the diploe. . Many of the smaller bones of the face are formed in a similar manner to those of the cranium. The clavicle diifers from the rest of the bones of the body in being quite bony from a very early period, not having visibly undergone the usual changes from gelatine into cartilage, and from this into bone. The bones are supplied with distinct arteries, veins, and absorbents, and probably nerves ; and according to the supply of blood from the arteries, and the character of the surrounding parts, so will be the tendency to reunion in case of fracture. The Ligaments are strong fibrous non-elastic structures connecting the bones, and principally situated about the articulations; their fibres run in different directions, leaving occasionally intervals between them for the passage of blood-vessels; they present a tolerably smooth and glistening appearance ; are destitute of red vessels ; nerves can be only infei'red to exist in them from their being painful in disease ; they are irregular in shape, size, and length, and are named from their situation, shape, direc- tion, attachments, or use. The Articulations are composed of bones, ligaments, cartilage, and synovial membrane, where they enjoy any extent of motion, as in the hip and knee; but when im- movable, are composed merely of bones and ligaments. The bones, where they enter into the formation of the moveable articulations are expanded and covered over by a structure called cartilage. This forms a most important part in the mechanism of the joints : one surface of it is intimately adherent to the bone, which it covers, without having any intimate vascular connection ; the other surface is free, smooth, and polished, and is covered by synovial membrane. It is usually described now as consisting of a matrix, with numerous cartilage cells and granules con- tained within it; its chief property is that of elasticity, by which it is enabled to prevent the effects of shocks, and to give free motion to the joints : neither vessels nor nerves can be traced into it, excepting at very early periods of life.