AMPUTATION. 701 In a favorable case of amputation of the thigh, some local inflammation and constitutional disturbance take place on the second or third day, which is soon followed by an adhesion of the edges of the wound by the first intention, except where the ligatures hang out, for some suppuration generally takes place at this point. The ligatures separate between the tenth and twenty-first days, varying according to the size of the artery tied, that on the largest artery being the longest in coming away, and vice versei. At the end of the third or fourth week, the patient is sometimes enabled to leave his bed. In such favorable cases the wound may be dressed, for the first time, on the third or fourth day after the operation, and after this every second day until healed. It rarely happens that amputation of the thigh proceeds so satisfactorily to its final termination. Many unfavorable symptoms generally arise in the course of its treatment. They may be enumerated as follows : 1st. Starting of the stump.—This is caused by the spasmodic twitchings of the divided muscles. It is treated by the administration of an opiate, and the ap- plication of pressure on the stump, by means of the bandage or the hands of an assistant. 2d. Secondary hcemorrhage may appear in a few hours after the operation, as soon as the patient shall have recovered the immediate shock of its performance, and the circulation becomes restored. The bleeding generally proceeds from some of the smaller arteries having been left untied, or may come from the femoral itself, when the ligature has not been properly applied. If profuse, the wound should be opened again, the coagula removed, and the bleeding vessels properly secured. The stump may be again dressed as before. Secondary hsemorrhage may occur on the fifth or sixth day from sloughing of the wound or the artery tied. If the bleeding cannot be restramed by pressure and styptic applications, the femoral artery should be tied in Scarpa's triangle It may also occur about the period of the separation of the hgature, from the want of uniofl in the artery. The same practice is to be adopted in this case. 3d. Violent inflammation sometimes attacks the stump commencing withm twenty-four hours after the operation,