162 ANATOMY. The anterior lateral groove is a narrow line on the side of the cord from which arise the anterior or motor roots of the spinal nerves ; it only grooves the white substance. The posterior lateral groove, parallel with but posterior to the preceding, is larger, and proceeds into the grey substance; from it arise the posterior or sensitive branches of the spinal nerves. By these grooves the spinal cord is divided into three columns on each side; the anterior, posterior, and lateral. On the anterior part of these last is seen the narrow white line of the respiratory tract of Sir Charles BeU. The grey substance is found, on making a section, to be arranged in a crescentic shape in each hemisphere, one corner of the crescent being anterior and shorter, the other longer and reaching to the roots of the posterior spinal nerves. The two crescents are arranged so that they are convex towards each other, and are connected by a narrow band of grey substance, so that they produce an appearance not very unlike a capital letter H. The white matter entirely surrounds the grey, excepting at the roots of the posterior nerves and at the bottom of the posterior sulcus. The two sides of it are only con- nected anteriorly at the bottom of the anterior groove, and this, from the transverse direction of the fibres, is some- times called the spinal commissure. The medullary fibres j posteriorly are nearly all longitudinal. The arteries that supply the brain arise from two sources | on each side, the internal carotid and the vertebral. The internal carotid, which divides at the anterior part and side of the sella turcica, gives off: 1. The ophthalmic, supplying the eye and its appendages, which it reaches through the foramen opticuni. 2. The anterior cerebral, which runs forwards and up- wards parallel to its fellow of the opposite side, over the anterior border of the corpus callosum, on the superior surface of which it runs as the arteria corporis callosi. It is connected with its fellow by a short branch, the anterior communicating artery. 3. The middle cerebral artery, which runs along the fissure of Sylvius, terminating a little beyond its outer end. It is the largest of the branches of the internal carotid.