495 OPERATION FOR ARTIFICIAL PUPIL. before the eye, and not unfrequently by pains in the eye, orbit, or head. Amaurosis may depend either on a func- tional, or an organic disease of the retina, or optic nerve. In the former case, the abstraction of blood will be found useful, combined with counter-irritants, near the seat of the disease, and the exhibition of alterative doses of mer- cury. In the latter, we should use in addition, tonic medicines, stimulant applications to the eye, and mercury in larger quantities, so as to produce salivation. Amau- rosis is frequently caused by disease of the origins of the optic nerves, or brain itself. In these cases nothing can be done for the patient. A partial or temporary amau- rosis has been often induced by depletions of the body of various kinds, such as haemorrhages, lactation, excessive indulgence in venery, &c. The remedies here required are sufficiently obvious. Sometimes it is a consequence of retinitis, GLAUCOMA. This is a diseased state of the vitreous humour, which appears behind the pupil, of a greenish colour. The eye is generally disorganised, and is seldom recovered. HYDROPHTHALMIA is a dropsical state of the eye: the eye is distended with fluid, the sclerotic coat becomes thinned and the cornea widened, and vision is wholly lost. Treatment is generally of no avail. Puncturing the cornea, so as to draw off the effused fluid, has been tried, but with little success. OPERATION FOR ARTIFICIAL PUPIL. Where the natural opening in the iris has become closed, from previous inflammation or any other cause It is proposed to form an artificial opening in the mem- brane. This is accomplished, 1st, by simply incising the iris, {Coretomia); 2d, bv cuttine-n,.t a portion of the iris, (CW^o^zia); 3d, by d;tach ng^a jortion o the ins from the ciliary ligament, {Coredialysu). ^ The operation of coretomia is seldom resorted to. Corectomia is performed as recommended by Mr. Gibson,, by maS an incs.on through the cornea into the anterior chambr t^^ Ih" being made to protrude, a portion of it is .tiinnJ,! .i L scissors. Coredialysis is performed by de ad L -It ' ^ needle, the iris from the ciliary ligamentVpSTiraC-t