542 SUEGERY. the base of Gimbernat's ligament, and are inserted with it into the ilio-pectineal line. The superior edge of this prolonged portion of the fascia lata is attached to Poupart's ligament; its inferior margin is free and concave, the concavity looking downwards and inwards: this portion of it is named Hey's ligament, or the falciform j^rocess of the fascia lata. A short distance below Hey's'ligament, the ihac portion of the fascia lata is gradually prolonged into the cribri- form fascia, but not unfrequently presents, in the dis- sected state, a well-defined edge at the outer side of the femoral artery. Still more inferiorly, the ihac portion of the fascia lata becomes continuous with the pectineal por- tion in front of the femoral vessels; they here, conjoined, form a well-defined semilunar margin, the concavity of which is turned upwards, and forms Burns-s ligammt. This margin of the fascia lata, on a careful examination, will be found to be reflexed backwards on the anterior surface of the femoral vessels, and so intimately united with the sheath, as to prevent altogether the descent of a hernia beneath it. ■ e e ■ The pectineal or pubic or internal portion of the tascia lata lies in front of the pectineus muscle. Internally, li is attached to the symphysis pubis, where it covers the gracilis and adductor muscles; as we trace it outwalks it passes in front of the pectineus muscle, gets behind the femoral vessels, at the outer edge of which it meets with the tendons of the psoas magnus and iliacus iiiternus muscles; it here divides into two laminse, one of which passes forwards, to be attached to the posterior ^ur ace of the external or iliac portion of the fascia lata whilst the other passes backwards to be attached to the capsular ligament of the hip-joint. • a. ^ «f fh« Superiorly, the pectineal fascia ascends m front ot the pectineus muscle, to be inserted into the il.o-pec meal line, where it becomes continuous with the fascia ihaca, and with Gimbernat's ligament. Infenorly, it becomes continuous with the iliac portion of the fascia lata, to form Burns's ligament. , Femoral hernia, as it descends, rests on the pectineal fascia Between these two portions of the fascia lata, and immediately in front of the femoral vessels, an oval-shaped