PHYSIOLOGY. 430 muscular structure of the auricles of the heart extends for some distance along the cavse and pulmonary veins. Capillaries.—Between the terminations of the arteries and the commencement of the veins exists a third portion of the circulating medium, viz., the capillary system. The small vessels of the capillary circulation anastomose with one another much more freely than the arteries, or even the veins. They vary in size from t3-Vt)* to g-gVo*^ an inch in diameter,—these being the extremes. Some of the capillaries have three coats, like the other vessels; but the smallest do not appear, for certain, to have more than one. It is in the capillary circulation of the body that nearly all the changes in its composition take place; it is in them that the carbonisation of the blood is effected, and animal heat produced; it is from them that the bile, sweat, and urine are secreted, &c. Lymphatics or Absorbents—Tsi& coats of the lymphatics are still thinner than those of the arteries or the veins, but thev are much stronger in reality than one would be led to expect from their appearance. They have three coats, of which the external is cellular, the middle fibrous, and the internal epithelial. Like the veins, the lymphatics are furnished with valves, which exist in such numbers as to give the vessels, when distended by injection, a knotted or beaded appearance. Ltjmphatic Glands—These are composed of numerous finely-divided lymphatic vessels, surrounded by a plexus of blood-vessels, and bound together by cellular tissue. The absorbents leading to them are more numerous and smaller than those which pass out from them. The former are called vasa inferentia, the latter vasa eff"erentia. The absorbents, or lymphatics, ultimately terminate by pouring their contents into the veins, generally by two large trunks, viz., the thoracic duct, which opens into the angle of junction of the left subclavian and left internal jugular veins, and the ductus lymphaticus dexter, which opens into the right subclavian vein near its junction with the right internal jugular vein. _ Serous Membranes are very dehcate structures, hniug a shut sac, except in the case of the peritoneum of the female, where we have a continuity of mucous and serous mem- brane at the extremity of the Fallopian tubes. Their free