212 ANATOMY. muscle, which, though not commonly reckoned among those of the tongue, has a considerable effect in drawing it forwards. From its arising from the lower jaw immediately behind the symphysis, and being inserted into the body ot the OS hyoides, it has been named the genio-hyoideus. The 2)alato-fflossus arises from the soft palate, and passes downwards, outwards, and forwards to be inserted into the side of the tongue. This muscle is common to the tongue and palate, and is by some called constrictor isthmi fauoiim. Besides these muscles the tongue is composed of a con- siderable mass of structure closely approacliing to muscular, though not described as such. Thin layers of this substance run along the tongue from before backwards, both above and at the sides, whilst other strata run directly from side to side, a third variety appearing to pass almost perpen- dicularly downwards. The mucous membrane of the tongue which covers its superior and lateral surfaces, is studded with a vast number of papillEe, which form the seat of the organ of taste. They are divided into several varieties: 1. PapiUcB lenticulares, also called circumvallatcE and calyciformes. These are about 15 in number, they are arranged in two rows which meet in a point posteriorly at the foramen csecum. They are but slightly elevated, and have a little depression in their centre, whence their name. 2. Papillce capitutce or fmigiformes.—These are in appearance like small mushrooms. They cover the whole surface of the tongue, but are found principally at the sides and point. , . 3. PapillcB pyramidales or conicce.—Thef.e are, as their name implies, larger at their base tlian their point. They are small and diffused over the whole surface of the tongue. 4. rapillcB filiformes.-These are very small and some- what long and thin. They are very few in number, and only found near the apex of the tongue. Unlike the other three varieties, these appear merely to contribute to ordmary sensation, wliilst the others assist both the ordinary and special sense. From the circumstance of the sensation of taste being more powerful at the posterior part of the tongue whilst ordinary sensation is considerably more acute at its point.