STRICTUKE OF THE URETHRA. 575 the mucous membrane of the bladder, and one of the most frequent consequences of long-continued stricture. It is characterised by a frequent desire to pass water, which is discharged with a quantity of flaky mucus, or purulent matter, and sometimes blood. The mucus, or purulent matter, is in general passed with much strain- ing, after the urine has been evacuated; the former falls to the bottom of the chamber utensil, to which it adheres very tenaciously. The urine is of a pale colour, and soon emits a most fetid, ammoniacal odour. There is also pain in the region of the neck of the bladder, in the penis and lumbar region, and a certain degree of irritation of the rectum. The constitutional symptoms are those indicative of irritative fever. As the disease advances, it spreads along the ureters to the kidneys, which become afi'ected in a similar manner, and not unfrequently form abscesses. In general the patient sinks under the affection before it has advanced thus far. The treatment of catarrhus vesicse consists in the admi- nistration of opiates, internally or by the rectum, of opiate injections into the bladder, and in the occasional exhibition of copaiba balsam, in smaU doses, Hquor potass^, decoctum uvse ursi, decoct, pareirae, mucilaginous drinks, &c. Relief may be obtained by these remedies, but they seldom effect a cure, unless the stricture be removed, and this only in the earlier stages. Gonorrheal ophthalmia occasionally appears as one of the consequences of gonorrhoea, vide Diseases of the Eye Some patients when affected with gonorrhcea are liable to a more moderate inflammation of the eyes, accompanied with a rheumatic inflammation of one or more of the joints The exhibition of the balsam of copaiba and the various torms ot turpentine becomes necessary. These attacks nrp often both tedious and difficult of removal. Secondary symptoms occasionally follow an attack of virulent gonorrhc^a; they are generally papular eruption pains m the joints, and a whitish patchv excork on of the throat and fauces, and occasionally ir.L GonorrhcEa in females attacks the 'labia, nymphse the onfice of the meatus urinarius, and vagina. ffeSmal parts become much inflamed, and Snder to tL tl? l The treatment is the same a's that "n teln^'hett