THE INTESTINES. 247 it, like the colon ; and may then be said to be attached by a meso-csecum. At the junction of the caecum and colon with the ilium, the lining membrane, with circular muscular fibres, forms folds, called ilio-ccecal and ilio-colic valves. These valves present each a concave border, looking upwards and towards the right side. The ilio-colic portion is horizontal; the ilio-csecal nearly perpendicular : they are united at each extremity, and if either of them be pressed against, within the large bowel, the opening between them becomes almost perfectly closed. There is a little worm-like appendage attached to the caecum at its under and back part, called appendix vermi- formis; it is rudimentary of a much larger part developed in animals. It varies in length from one to six inches, and IS ordinarily of the size of a goose-quill. Its precise position is very uncertain, although it more frequently projects or hangs down over the border of the pelvis. Its cavity is small, ending in a cul-de-sac, and contains a little mucus. Its structure is like that of the large intestines. The use of this body is unknown. The Colon is divided into four portions : the ascending, the transverse, the descending, and its sigmoid flexure, which last terminates in the rectum, opposite the left sacro- uiac synchondrosis. Little folds of peritoneum, containing fat, hang down from the colon, called appendices epiploicce.. The ascending colon passes up on the right side bounded— ' In front, by the abdominal paiietes. Behind, by the quadratus laborum and right kidney Above, by the margin of the liver. transverse colon extends from the right to the left hypochondrium, along the junction of the epigastric, with the umbihcal region; on the right side it touches the gall-bladder, on the left it is jus? below the spl n it is k'^wJVnVtb'V'' the transverse mesocolon; ?hus, abov L , ?M m' ^^^^ sometimes slightly grooved for It. the gall-bladder, the stomach, and lower oart of tbp spleen. Below the transverse colon 'there ^ZrL Jl "STeft n 'r^™"^^'^*^"^^'^^^-'^ byperitoVeum Ihe left lumbar, or descending colon, is bounded in a