600 SUEGEUY. in the lower part or cul-de-sac, may be expelled of the proper form and size. There is Utile or no pain attendmg the disease, except when passing the faeces, or immediately after, and this only in the advanced condition of the affec- tion.' Some obscure dull pains are usually felt about the lower part of the pelvis, and down the thighs; and not unfrequently an irritable state of the neck of the bladder exists. In this state of things the constitution begms to participate, the appetite becomes impaired, and general symptoms of dyspepsia, attended with some fever, present themselves. On examination of the intestine, the stricture will be felt by the finger, a short distance, in general, above the anus; in some cases it may be situated higher up, when the bougie will be required to ascertain its ex- istence. „ , , ... ^ The treatment of stricture of the rectum consists m the removal of the stricture, as far as is possible, by the occa- sional use of the rectum-bougie, in the administration ot opiates, either by the mouth or per anum, to reheve the irritability of the parts, or in the exhibition of such medi- cines, internally, as are best suited to the relief of the symptoms present. When the bowels are obstinately constipated, much benefit will be derived from the admi- nistration of emollient enemata, passed into the intestine, above the stricture, by means of the gum-elastic tube. In the more advanced stages of the disease the mucous membrane, near to the stricture, becomes ulcerated, and a thin sanious matter, mixed occasionally with blood, is discharged per anum. Stricture of the rectum proves fatal, bv inducing peritonitis, by the giving way of the intestine above the stricture, or by the constitutional irn- tation which it causes. . . c ■A^^■^^ Scirrho-contracted rectum. This is a more formidable disease than the preceding: it occurs, in general, m ad- vanced life. In addition to the symptoms we ha^e men- tioned, as characteristic of simple permanent stricture, there are the local and constitutional evidences of a can- cerous disease. Thus, the patient complams of sex ere, lancinating pains in the part, extending through the pelvic viscera and from the thigh; there is a tbui ichorous mat- ter discharged per anum, mixed occasionally with blood. The constitution, too, presents all the characters of a can-