443 THE BRAIN AND ORGANS OF SENSE. too much light, particularly when it comes from above, and they prevent perspiration from flowing towards or irritating the surface of the eye. The eyelids during sleep cover the eyes, and thus pre- serve them from the contact of any foreign bodies floating in the air; they moderate the force of a too brilliant light; and, by their regular and habitual motion, preserve the eyes from the effects of the continued contact of the air: and, by their sudden closure, guard them from any shock. The secretion from the meibomian glands facilitates the motion of the eyehds, prevents them sticking together, and by its oily character prevents the tears passing over the edges of the lids. Hearing. —The external ear, or pinna, collects the sonorous undulations, and directs them towards the meatus auditorius externus. This trumpet-like tube concentrates and conveys them to the membrana tympani. The sono- rous waves striking against the membrane cause it to vibrate; this vibratory motion will be also given to the malleus, which is in contact with the membrane. The malleus moves the hicus ; the incus, the os orbicidare ; and this latter moves the stajjes. Now the base of the stapes being attached to the membrane, closing the fenestra ovalis, it is evident that the stapes must act the part of a piston; that is, compressing or dilating the fluid in the vestibide, semicircular canals, and cochlea. The motion of this fluid conveys the impression to the acoustic nerve contained in the labyrinth. This nerve, receiving the im- pression, conveys it to the brain. The Eustachian tube admits the free passage of air into and from the cavity of the tympanum, thus preservino-a due balance with the external air, and enabhng the mem- brana tympani to move in obedience to the slightest im pression. ° The mastoid cells are supposed to augment the intensitv or the sound. The fenestra rotunda and aqueducts are supposed to allow the iquid of the labyrinth to suff-er vibratioT Of Taste.—To produce the sensation of taste, the food must be moistened and apphed to the tongue. The minute branches of the Inrgual branch of the thifd division of ll fifth pair receive the impression, and convey it to the brain.