556 srEGEHY. counted for by the greater use that is made of the right side of the body, and also by the obUque descent of the diaphragm from left to right, caused by the presence of the liver in the rigbt hypochondriac region. THE TEEATMENT OF EEDUCIBLE HEENIA consists in removing the causes, if possible; and where this cannot be effected, to keep the viscera in situ by the application of a truss, or by other means. The general symptoms of a reducible hernia are an indolent tumour in some of the regions of the abdomen mentioned, the absence of any discoloration of the integu- ments, the appearance of the tumour in the erect, its dis- appearance in the recumbent posture, the impulse commu- nicated to it by coughing, and its increase in size at the same time, its diminution when compressed, and occasion- ally some colicky pains in the abdomen. When the tumour is composed of intestine only, it may be distinguished from an omental hernia by the irregular unequal doughy feel of the latter, as also by its greater indolence and compressibiUty. If in the scrotum the omental hernia is more oblong and less round than the intestinal, its weight is also greater. When the disease is an entero-epiplocele, that is, corn- nosed of both intestine and omentum, the diagnosis is more obscure. Indeed, in most cases the best experienced surgeons find it exceedingly difficult, if not impossible to distinguish the contents of a hernial tumour, nor is it ^matter of any great importance, as equally acute symp- toms may be induced by an omental as by an mtestiual hernia The return of an intestinal hernia is frequenUy, but not always, attended with a pecuUar gurgling noise When the hernia is reducible, it shou d be at once returned into the abdomen, and retained there ^y means of a truss. The manipulation necessary for its reduct on is termed the taxis. In all attempts at reduction, the patient should be placed in such a position as will mos ^ficctually relax the parts tl^^ough which the hernia ha. descended, and this then returned gradually, that is, the portion of intestine that has last descended should be first returned, kept so by means of gentle pressure on he p2 and 80 on untU the whole tumout disappears; when