DISEASES OF JOINTS. 63/ becomes established; the patient is now either confined to bed, or prevented from niiiking any use of the limb. The joint when examined is found to be much swollen, the in- teguments are of a pale, white colour, and a number of blueish veins ramify over the joint. The pain in the arti- culation is seldom severe, often altogetlier "absent, and the increase in temperature is not remarkable. The limb above and below tlie knee is much wasted, and the general health is impaired, but not seriously. In this stage parti- cular attention should be paid to the state of the stomach and bowels, the patient being allowed a generous diet and a free use of good air. Counter-irritants and leeches should be applied to the joint, and splints placed behind it, 80 as to prevent all motion. As the disease advances^ matter of a scrofulous nature forms in the interior of the articulation, and gradually makes its way outwards by several openings. The constitution now sympathises much, hectic fever sets in, and the patient is frequently carried off, unless amputation be performed. Whatever the primary affection may have been, the same appearances present themselves in a post-mortem examination of the articulation, when the disease has ad- vanced to its last stage. Thus the cartilages are more or less removed, and particularly the inter-articular and the cartilage covering the head of the tibia; the synovial membrane is thickened, soft, and pulpy, the ligaments are removed, or degenerated into a soft pulpv mass, and the extremities of the bones are increased in"'vascularity In the purely scrofulous affection a quantity of adipose substance is often met with beneath the skin, the cellular substance is filled with serum, the cartilages apnelr thinned and as if easily detached from the bones, and the spongy tissue of these is filled with a reddish watery fluid and not unfrequently purulent matter. The sinuses around the joint, which have given exit to the ma er are lined by an adventitious membrane The applications most useful as counter-irritants in chronic diseases of the knee, are the tartar-em ic oin ment, he hnnnentum op.i, the compound iodine ohli and a linunent made with strong sulphuric acid and oilv; Diseases of the hip-Joiut.-Synontk of this articulation