•I 90 ANATOMY. gleuoid cavity and glenoid fissure, and grooves internally for branches of the middle meningeal artery. The petrous portion presents externally an auditory process, vaginal and styloid process, the external auditory foramen; inferiorly the carotid foramen and canal, and iugular fossa ; internally an auditory foramen, the aqueducts of the vestibule and cochlea, superior and inferior petrosal grooves, Eustachian canal, and hiatus Fallopn. The mastoid j3?-ocm presents the stylo-mastoid foramen, mastoid foramen, (sometimes in common with the occipital bone,) digastric fossa, occipital groove, and internally a lateral groove for the lateral sinus. The temporal is connected with five other bones, viz., sphenoid, malar, parietal, occipital, and with the lower jaw bv einglymus. , , . • ,.1 The glenoid fissure transmits the chorda tympani, the tendon of the laxator tympani muscle, a small artery, and gives lodgment to the processus gracilis of the mallens. The carotic foramen and canal transmit the interna carotid artery and ascending filaments from the first cervical ^^lS°hiternal auditory foramen contains the portio moUis, portio dura, and an artery running between them ^ The aqueducts of the cochlea and the vestibule transmit veins from those parts to the lateral sinus. The petrosal grooves lodge the petrosal sinuses The hiatus Fallopii admits the petrous branch of the vidian nerve, (alias large superficial petrosal nerve.) A small foramen, posterior to the former, transmits the nervus petrosus superjicialis minor. . „„,^„ „ Between the jugular fossa and carotid foramen is a small opening for the nerve of Jacobson. , , , In a groove adjoining the Eustachian canal but sepa- rated from it by a thin osseous plate, named processus cochleariformis. is found the tensor tynipani muscle. The stylo-mastoid foramen transmits the portio dura and ^ l^e raaSofd foramen gives passage generally to a vem which enters the lateral sinus. This bone is first developed from five pomts: on. sqxiSr TTious one for the mastoid and petrous portion one tor the rseous rig of the tympanum, one for the styloid process,