MUSCLES OF THE LEG AND FOOT. 133 MUSCLES OF THE BACK OF THE LEG Consist of a superficial and deep layer. outer condyle of Superjicial Layer. Gasteocnemius. Or. Inter^ial head: upper and back part of the internal condyle of the femur, and the oblique ridge above it. External head: from above the external condyle. on the outer condyle of the femur. Ins. Plat triangular surface, occupying the superior posterior fifth of the tibia. Use. To Ilex the knee. FlEXOK LONGUS DIGITORUM Ins. Lower and back part of pehforans. Or. Posterior flat the OS calcis. sm-face of the tibia, from below Use. To raise the heel and the popliteus to within three extend the foot, to flex the knee- inches of the ankle, the fascia. joint and strengthen it Px-ANTAEis. Or. Back part of the femur above the exteraal condyle, and posterior ligament of the knee. Ins. Posterior part of the os calcis, anterior to the tendo Achillis; sometimes wanting. Use. To extend the foot, stretch the fascia, and bend the knee. SoLETJS. Or. External head: from the back part of the head and superior third of the fibula. Internal head: torn, the pos and intermuscular septa. Ins. Last phalanx of four lesser toes. Use. To flex the toes and metatarsus, and extend the foot. Tibialis posticus. Or. Pos- terior internal part of the fibula, upper part of the tibia, and nearly the whole length of the inter-osseous ligament. Ins. Liferior and internal tu- berosity on the OS uaviculare, the mternal cuneiform and cu- boid bones, and the second and ±iivcinui, iieaa: n'om tne pos- ■J"'" "unes, ana tne se terior part of the tibia, just below metatarsal bones. the insertimofthepopUteus:it Use. To extend the foot aaid unites with gastrocnemius to elevate its inner ed^-e form the tendo Achilbs. Ylv^r^^, ^nrrr^ ' Use. To assist the gastroc- r ' t , , , nemius. ^'^^^ -L^ast phalanx of the great Deep Layer. Popn.B,s. Or. Deprassio^:„d^.°ddt^tfol'°'" MUSCLES OF THE FOOT. The plantar muscles are divided into four layers. Lower and inner part of the os S^nf^S"::^'