388 KEGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. chanter, passes backward between the pectineus and adductor brevis or sometimes through the latter, perforates the adductor magnus, and gams the back of the thigh. Secunda, larger than the preceding, perforates the adductor brevis, then the adductor magnus, and arrives at the back of the thigh. Tertia arises opposite the upper edge of the tendon of the adductor longus, perforates the adductor magnus, and gains the back of the thigh. The perforating arteries supply the muscles on the inside of the thigh ; they form a chain of anastomoses along the back part of the thigh with the gluteal, sciatic, and circumflex arteries, and the articular arteries of the knee-joint beneath, which is of essential service in restoring the circulation, when any of the principal arteries of the lower extremities has been tied. Some- times a fourth perforating artery exists. Arteria terminans is the last branch of the profunda, along the linea aspera, sometimes perforating the adductor magnus to reach the short of the biceps, where it anastomoses with the articular arteries. Arteria anastomotica magna arises from the femoral, as this vessel is about becoming popliteal; it descends in the substance of the vastus internus to the knee, where it anastomoses with the articular arteries. The saphenous nerve leaves the femoral artery at the lower part of Hunter's canal, and there joins the anastomotica magna, which it accompanies as far as the knee; this nerve afterwards escapes from beneath the tendon of the sartorius, and between the tendons of the gracilis and semitendiuosus on the inner side of the tibia, and then accompanies the internal saphena vein. The numerous branches of the femoral and profunda arteries which descend to the knee, become much enlarged in disease of this articulation : hence in amputations of the thigh, for long-continued disease of the knee-joint, most of these vessels will be found much enlarged, and will require to be secured with the ligature. "We may now proceed to consider the operations on the femoral artery. The femoral arterv is tied in its first stage, i. e. in Scarpa's triangle for the cure of popliteal aneurism. To perform this operation, place the patient in the recumbent position, with the limb nearly in a state of extension, and rotated slightly outwards. The course of the artery is at once recognised by the pulsation of the vessel, or, if this be not manifest, it may be ascertained by a line drawn from midway (in the line of Poup'art's ligament) from the anterior superior spinous process of the ihum and the symphysis pubis, to the internal condyle. Some have also recommended the inner