REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. 280 fibres are closely connected with it, and thus the muscle causes it to produce the free motion of the scalp. Wounds of this aponeurosis, and more frequently those of a punctured nature, are often followed by violent inflammation, which spreads to the subjacent cellular tissue, and gives rise to symptoms re- sembling those of inflammation of the membranes of the brain. The aponeurosis should be, in such cases, at once freely divided by an incision through it; this will relieve the tension, give exit to any matter that may have been formed, and cause the subsi- dence of the disagreeable symptoms. The cranial aponeurosis covers only the superior and slightly the lateral regions of the cranium, reaching ante- riorly as far as the coronal suture, and posteriorly to a little above the superior semicircular ridge on the occipital bone. J The scalp, or pericranium, is connected to or separatea from the periosteum of the cranial bones by a quantity of loose reticular cellular tissue, which, from its great laxity and abundance, allows of the free motion of the soft parts on the convex surface of the cranium, and thus contributes much to the protection of the brain by eluding the violence offered. Into this loose cellular tissue eifusioifs frequently take place. In erysipelas of the-head, serum is poured into it, giving rise to the (Edematous condition of the scalp, a characteristic of this affection; and in the more advanced stages of the disease, matter forms in it Blood is also poured into it, forming the bloody tumour of the scalp in the adult, and those remarkable swellings in the in- fant, after a tedious difficult labour, and which often spread over the whole surface of the cranium. The ■periosteum covers the external surface of the cranial bones, to which it is closely adherent, particularly along the sutures, by means of fibrous processes entering here, and of the vessels which enter at these situations to supply the bone, and anastomose in the d.ploe with the vessels of the dura mater. This is called the external periosteum, to distinguish it from the internal periosteum or dura mater. In cases of severe injuries of the head, the external periosteum is frequently detached from the bone, or its vitahty destroyed, llus injury, if considerable in extent, will be followed by a necrosis, oi, more properlv speaking, death and separation of the outer table of the skull, 'known as exfoliation ; the remaining portion being supplied by the internal periosteum. More frequently, disease ot