114 ANATOMY. Use. To depress the velum or raise the edge of the tongue, and to constrict the isthmus of the fauces. Palato-phabyngetjs forms the posterior pillar of the palate. Or. Inferior surface of the pa- late. , , Ins. Side of the pharynx, and the side of the thyroid cartilage. Use. To depress the velum, or to raise the pharynx. MUSCLES OF THE LABYKX The muscles of the larynx are symmetrical, and are situated on its front, sides, and back part. There are two on the fore part, viz. thyro-hyoid and crico-thy- roid. Two laterally, viz. thyro- arytenoid and lateral crico-ary- tenoid. Two posteriorly, viz. arytenoid and posterior cnco- arytenoid. THYRO-HTOinEUS. Or. Ub- lique ridge on the ala of the thyroid cartilage. ^Ins. Lower edge of the cornu of the os hyoides. Use. To raise the larynx aud carry it forwards; and also to depress and fix the os hyoides. Ckico-thyroidetjs. Or. Tore- part of the cricoid cartilage. Ins. Lower border of the thy- roid cartilage. Use. To approximate tlie two cartilages, and, according to some, to dilate the rima glot- tidis, and to stretch the chords vocales. Thyko-abytenoideus. Or. Posterior surface of the thyroid cartilage, near its angle. Ins. Anterior edge of tlie arytenoid cartilage. • Use. To contract the rima fflottidis antcro-postcriorly, aud to relax the vocal chords. ClUCO-ABYTENOIDEUS LATE- UALis. Or. Upper edge of the side of the cricoid cartilage. Ins. Base of the arytenoid cartilage. Use. To contract the nma glottidis from before back- wards, but dilate it from side to side. CKICO-AKYTENOrDETJS POSTI- CUS. Or. Depression on the pos- terior surface of the cricoid car- tilage. „ , , f Ins. Outer side of the base of the arytenoid cartilage. Use. To dilate tlie rrma glot- tidus. AnYTENOiDEtrs fills the in- terval between arytenoid carti- lages, and consists of two sets of fibres: oblique, which run from apex of one cartilage to base of opposite one; and transverse, which are attacheil to posterior surface of each car- tilage. . Use. To approsunate the ary- tenoid cartilages, and contract the rima glottidis. Two other small muscles are described now by some anato- mists as belonging to the larynx, and are named thyro-epiglotti- deus, and arytcuo-epiglottideus. TllYRO-EPIGLOTTlDEUS. Ur. inside of thyroid cartilage, near its flUErlc Ins. To the side of the epi- glottis. , ,, ■ Use. To draw down the epi- glottis during swallowing.