DISBASEa or THiS TONGUE. 503 to the Eustachian tubes, or these may become blocked up, and thus produce temporary deafness. The strictest antiphlogistic regimen should be observed. Leeches applied to the inflamed tonsils have been found very beneficial; free scarifications of the glands are much more so. By active treatment the inflammation some- times is subdued, but more frequently advances to suppu- ration, and in general of but one gland. As soon as matter appears to be formed in the gland, it should be opened, if productive of much distress to the patient but otherwise may be allowed to burst of itself. Abscesses in the tonsils should be opened with much caution, as the in- ternal carotid artery lies but a short distance to the outer side of the gland, and may be wounded. If caution be ob- served. It is of little consequence what instrument M-e use so as It be fitted to the object in view; a sharp-pointed bis- toury, covered with adhesive plaster to within a short dis- tance of Its extremity, or gum-lancet, or the peculiar instru- ment manufactured for the purpose, will answer. The point ot the instrument in opening the abscess should be directed backwards, or backwards and inwards, on no account out- wards, as the artery lies in this direction. The matter bemg discharged, the patient soon recovers. Emetics sometimes are given, with a view to cause the bursting of the abscess durmg the efforts to vomit. Some have recom- mended the application of a strong solution of nitrate of sdver, the Tmct. Capsici, and other stimulating agents to the tonsds; when in an inflamed state, the latter are not to be recommended, although useful when the glands are in a state ot chronic inflammation. ^ The tonsds are sometimes permanently enlarged from frequent attacks of inflammation. Thei/ removd unlr these circumstances has been occasionally practbed in order to relieve the patient's deglutition and^re S which are often seriously impaired by the tumou^^ tS may be removed by transfixing each enlarged gland w th « double hook, by whicli it is drawn forwafds w cut away with a scalpel, bistoury, or naiJ of ,pU V^^"" Cooper, who preferred the ligature iavo f^ir A. requisite cur/e, and then the enlarged tonsil. The probe bei f ^ ''f'''"'^ knot IB made with the tonsS iro.s I'f fhe fi" gers are found