THE TESTES. 271 the centre, where the common ejaculatory ducts penetrate, separated by the middle lobe of the gland. The external surface of the prostate gland is surrounded by a plexus of veins, chiefly formed from tlie dorsal vein of the penis. It is usually described as consisting of two lateral lobes, and a small connecting inferior third lobe (Home's \ohe). This division is very arbitrary and indistinct. The under surface of the gland rests on the rectum. The prostate gland is covered by a dense fibrous capsule, which is de- rived from the triangular ligament, and gives to it its firm feel; but according to some authors, it is derived from the pelvic fascia; its internal structure is composed of a con- geries of mucous follicles, united by cellular tissue. Its use is to secrete a fiuid, supposed to be useful in generation ; this is conveyed into the urethra by means of numerous ducts, about ten on each side, which open on each side of the verumontanum. The coverings of the penis are the skin, superficial fascia, and fascia of the penis. The skin is thin and loose, and is continuous with the surrounding inteo'u- ment. Anteriorly it is prolonged, so as to form a fold, named the prepuce, at the free margin of which the skin is reflexed on itself as far as the corona glandis; it thence covers the glans penis, where it is continuous, at the ori- fice of the urethra, with the mucous membrane; beneath this opening it forms a fold, the frcenum preputii. The superficial fascia lies beneath the skin; it is loose and reticular, and is derived from a continuation of the su- perficial fascia of the abdomen, which descends from the pubes or the dorsum of the penis, forming ih^ false sus- pensory ligament; anteriorly it is continued into the pre- puce. The superficial fascia of the penis communicates freely with that of the perineum and abdominal parietes • hence efiiisions of serum, urine, &c., pass freely into its cells' Ihe fascia of the penis is a dense layer of cellular tissue, which invests the body of the penis, and is derived trom the true suspensonj ligament, a triangular fibrous structure, which descends from the margins of the arch of the pubis on the penis inclosing between the two laminae of which It consists, the dorsal vessels and nerves of the penis. The body of the penis is composed of the two corpora cavernosa, and the corpus spongiosum urethrce. Each