MORTIFICATION. 4G3 should be applied to the sore, as it is found to be most useful; and tonics with good nourishment are requisite. Carbuncle or Anthrax is a tumour, formed by gangrene of the subcutaneous cellular tissue, which generally appears in originally strong but impaired constitutions. It may be called a gigantic furuncle, and is a specimen of phleg- monous inflammation, but of an asthenic type. The usual situation for anthrax is the dorsum of the neck or trunk, but it may appear in any other part of the body, where the cellular tissue is abundant. Symptoms: When carbuncle is about to take place in any part, it is generally preceded by pain and heat of a burning character; a swelliuo- succeeds of considerable hardness,—this is occasioned by the adhesive inflammation; the surface of the tumour then assumes a livid redness, of a spongy soft feel; little ulcers now form in the skin, which, from their number, give it a sieve-like appearance, so numerous are their orifices ; from these a white discharge passes, resembling flour and water mixed together, according to Sir A. Cooper, or it may be described as foetid sanious pus. When the little openings form into one, the dead cellular membrane begins to escape. Treatment: Make a crucial incision through and down to the bottom of the tumour, applying the fermenting poultices until the sloughs have separated* and support the patient's strength with tonics and stimu- lants. Some surgeons recommend the free application of caustic potash to the part after the free incision to form an eschar, which will be rapidly thrown ofi". Car- buncle is seldom fatal, except when it appears on or near the head. In some cases it terminates fatally, when the tumour is large and situated over the thoracic or abdominal cavities. Furimde or Boil is a circumscribed, very prominent, hard, dark red, painful, inflammatory swelhng, of a conical shape having its base below the skin, and its apex above It. It IS a pure specimen of phlegmon, attacking the skin and cellular tissue beneath it. The colour inclines to purp e, and on its summit is a whitish little eschar, under which IS a mass of destroyed cellular membrane, called a core. If a furuncle or boil be left to itself, the eschar on irs summit separates, a slough of cellular membr ane, with some purulent matter, is discharged, when the sore heals.