274 ANATOMY, to the external parts taken altogether. The labia are folds of the skin, lined internally with mucous membrane, and within containing some erectile and cellular tissue ; where they unite posteriorly, an internal transverse told of membrane is found, forming the fourchette Ihe c itons hes within the vulva, between the labia, immediately below the mons veneris; it is analogous to the penis m the male; it arises by two crura, one on each side, from the rami of the pubes, which unite to form one body, the clitoris, which, expanding in front, forms the glans chtoridis; this is partially covered with a fold of integument, called the vrevuce. The clitoris is erectile, like the penis, but does not possess any canal. The nymphcB, or labia minora descend from the prepuce downwards and outwards, and are gradually lost near the orifice of the vagina. Between the nymph4 having the clitoris above and the orifice of the vagina beneath, is the external opening of the meatus nrinarius, or urethra. This is about two inches and a half in length, and leads upwards and backwards, immediately above the vagina, into the bladder The vagina lies beneath the preceding, and above the rectum ; it leads upwards and backwards to the extent of about four inches along its upper surface, and six inches below, and ter- minates by surrounding the neck of the uterus bein^ prolonged farther on it posteriorly than anteriorly; it is lined internally by mucous membrane, which is uneven and thrown into folds, chiefly in the transverse direction. I?is Generally partially closed in the virgin state near its Ills geueiciiij- 1 J prP<;rpntic fold of mucous mem- anterior extremity by a crescenuc luiu u brane, concave upwards, named the hymen. The rup ure or gradual obliteration of this leaves m ^l^^d^ f ^^^^^ projections, the carunculcB myrhformes. /xt rnal to the muious membrane, the vagina is covered with a fibrous membrane, on the exterior of which is the JP^^^"* « ; formis, composed chiefly of veins, and supposed to be erectile. The vagina receives a partial covering of peri- toneum, near to its attachment to the uterus. . p The perineum in the female extends.from the inferior commissure to the os coccygis; it contains analogous Tscles to the male, viz., the sphincter am, leva or > roccVKfeus, transversus perinei, and erector chtoridis^ Sfvhincter vaginae muscle may be said to correspond