UKINARY CALCULI AND LITHOTOMY. 721 wards its upper and outer part. The operation of litho- trity, however, bids fairly to supersede all other operations for stone in the female subject. Dupnytren's Bilateral operation of lithotomy.—The operator ren- ders the skin of the perineum a little tense, hy pressing it down with the fingers of his left hand placed at the anus, and then, with a scalpel, a curved incision is made through the integument, commencing at the right side, between the ischium and the anus, and terminating at the corresponding point at the opposite side. The concavity of the curve thus described looks downwards to the anus, and its convexity upwards to the bulb of the urethra; its centre being about five or six lines above the former point. A second incision is made in the same direction, and to the same extent, through the muscles and deep fascia. In the next place, the operator with the index-finger of the left hand, feels for the curve of the staff in the urethra at the top of the wound, and there he introduces the point of his scalpel. When secure of its posi- tion, he runs it in the groove from before backwards, for four or five lines, so as to divide the membranous portion of the urethra. This being effected, the point of the double lithotome is placed in the groove of the stafi', its concavity being turned up towards the pubic arch; then the operator, taking hold of the handle of the staff, draws it down towards him, and passes the lithotome back into the bladder. The staff is withdrawn, and the lithotome turned, so that its concavity shall look downwards. Its blades are sepa- rated to the required extent, and the instrument drawn steadily outwards, its handle being at the same time a little depressed, so that it is made to cut downwards and outwards. In this way the prostate gland and the neck of the bladder are divided at each side, and a lunated flap, composed of the lower segment of these struc- tures, is formed. This operation is named the bilateral, and is said to have the advantage of not exposing the rectum or pubic arteries to danger. The operation has not been so successful as to warrant its adoption by surgeons in this country. _ Operation oflithotrity.—This operation consists in pass- ing an instrument named the lithotrite, into the bladder by which the stone is broken up, so that the pieces may be afterwards expelled by the urethra. It is performed as follows: Inject a quantity of tepid water into the bladder by means of a ca- theter, so as to moderately distend this viscus; introduce the hthotnte, and grasping the stone within the blades of the instru- ment crush the calculus; repeat the process, until no portion of a la ge size remains This operation, although likely to be ex- ceedingly useful in the adult subject, is not fitted for the voung. In cases, too, where there is an inflamed state of the bladder or 31