STRICTURE or THE URETHRA. 569 few drops of urine in the urethra after the patient has made water, which afterwards escape and wet the linen; while a further portion of urine is collected between the neck of the bladder and the stricture, and may be expelled by pressure on the lower surface of the urethra. This is soon followed by an irritable state of the bladder, the patient being frequently disturbed at night to pass water; the stream of urine becomes forked, spiral, or scattered, and, in a more advanced stage, the water is only voided in drops; there is, in general, a gleety discharge from the urethra, and uneasiness about the perineum and lower part of the rectum, &c. When the stricture has existed for some time, the con- stitution begins to participate in the affection: a species of low fever setting in, marked by an accelerated pulse, impaired appetite, thirst, disturbed rest, and a peculiar degree of general irritability. As the disease advances, the fever assumes much of the character of an intermittent attack, being attended with occasional shiverings, followed by profuse sweatings. This may be distinguished from an intermittent by the irregularity of the attacks and the pro- fuse nature of the sweatings. When the above symptoms are present the urethra should be examined with a soft wax bougie, that the precise situation of the stricture, its size, shape, &c. may be ascertained. This having been done the cure is proceeded with by means of bougies or catheters, gradually adapted to the state of the canal, one of these being passed at intervals of two or three days, until the stricture is removed by the mechanical pressure of the instrument, and the increased action of the absorbents excited thereby. In few cases can the instrument be passed more frequently, as its use is likely to be followed, partir cularly in irritable persons, by an attack of fever, such as we have just described, and generally known by the name o{ stricture fever. In this way, it is generally some weeks or months before the stricture is removed. At the same time that the bougie is 4)eing used, the constitutional symptoms should be attended to, and opiates and other medicines administered as they may be required. After the removal of the stricture, the patient should be directed to have a bougie passed occasionally, to prevent the return of the disease. In passing a bougie or other instrument,