AllTEllIA F.EMORALIS. 38y edge of the sartorius as a guide to the ai tery, but this is objec- tionable, as the muscle does not run parallel to the artei y. Make an incision through the integuments and fascia, about four inches in length, over the course of the vessel, commencing al)out two inches below Poupart's ligament. As the internal saphena vein lies to the inner side of our incision, we should take care not to cut it too much towards the inner side of the thigh. In this incision, some superficial blood-vessels and nerves will be wounded, and one or more of the inguinal glands brought into ■view; those maybe cut through with impunity. The edges of the wound having been separated, the fascia lata will be exposed. Make a small opening through this, and then introduce a director beneath it, and so divide the fascia to a sufficient extent. The sheath of the femoral vessels will soon be brought into view, and the artery recognised by its pulsation. Proceed to open the sheath with much caution. For this purpose pinch it up between the fingers, a little to the outer side of the artery; make a small opening into it, and through this introduce the director and slit open the sheath. The femoral artery being thus exposed, it should be separated from the vein on its inner side, and from the saphenous nerve on its outer side. There is little difficulty in doing this, as a septum exists between the artery and vein, and the nerve is seldom in close contact in this situation. The artery having been isolated, the aneurism needle is to be passed from within outwards, so as to avoid in- junng the vein. The place at which the ligature should be apphed is a short distance, say three inches, from Poupart's ligament: this is about one inch or one inch and a half below the origin of the profunda, as this vessel arises in general about one inch and a half or two inches from Poupart's ligament • and it IS necessary to have a portion of the femoral arterv intervening between the ligature and its origin, in order to allow of the for mation of an internal coagulum, and the subsequent obliteration of the femoral arteiy. The ligature should not be applied on the femoral artery above the origin of the profunda, as a sufficientlv free space does not exist here for its apphcation, in consequence of the origin of the super ficial epigastric, pudic, and circumflex ilii arteries. The ereat advantage of tying the femoral artery below the origin of the profunda is that by so doing, we avail ourselves of the important anastomosis of this vessel with the branches of the iliac arteries above, and the articular arteries around the knee-joint below by tTe 1 mb " R ""'"f- ""'^ ''''''^ lowe prrt of the hmb. Before applying the ligature, it should be ascertained by compressing the itrtery between the finger and thmnb that U commands the circulation in the aneurismil ,1^ instances the profunda arises from t~ " , S tZ::^ ligament and descending in a parallel direction, n ^v be nSe, font. A very remarkable case of this kind occurL to Sir C Bell, m which the two vessels communicated ii h thigh b o«