MUSCLES OP THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. 129 and insertion of the great sciatic ligament. Ins. i'ibrous membrane of the erus chtoridis. Use. Similar to the erector penis of the male. SpHijfCTER VAGINA Bxtends from the clitoris superiorly. around each side of the vagina to the central point of the peri- neum, in front of the anus. Use, as its name implies. Compkjessoe. or Coxstrictor TOETHn^ is described by some as precisely similar to that of the male. MUSCLES OP THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY Are classed into those of the thigh, leg, and foot. Muscles on the Fore Part and Sides of the Thigh. Tensor vagina or Fascia niMOKis. Or. External part of the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. Lis. Duplicature of fascia lata on the. outer side of the thigh, about three inches below the great trochanter. . Use. To make tense the fas- cia of the thigh, and to rotate the thigh inwards, to flex and abduct it. Sabtoritjs. Or. Anterior su- perior spine of the ilium and the notch beneath it. Lis. Inner side of the upper end of the tibia, below its tu- bercle. To bend the leg on the thigh and the thigh on the pelvis, to adduct the thigh and throw it over the opposite one, to ad- vance the leg and turn it out- wards, and when the leg is bent it may turn it inwards, and in standing supports the pelvis. Rectus femoris. Or. Ante- rior inferior spinous process of the ilium, the acetabulum, and capsular ligament. Ins. Upper edge of the pa- tella and its ligament. Use. To extend the leg, flex the thigh on the pelvis, support the pelvis, and strengthen the capsular ligament. Vastus externus. Or. Root and anterior part of the great trochanter, the outer edge of the linea aspera, the oblique ridge leading to the external condyle, all the external surface of the femur, and the fascia lata. Ins. External surface of the tendon of the rectus, the side of the patella, and by an aponeurosis into the head of the tibia. Use. To extend the leg and rotate it outwards. Vastus internus. Or Ante- rior part of the femur, linea luter-trochanterica, the inner edge of the linea aspera, and mside of the femur. i>M. Inner edge of the tendon ot the rectus, the patella, and aponeurotic into head of the tibia. Use. To extend the leg and turn it inwards. ® Crur/eus. Or. Anterior and external part of the femur, com- mencuig at the linea iutcr-tro- 6§