232 ANATOMY. vessel, containing the fluid poured into the circulation by the thoracic duct. The right ventricle has two openings into it, the auriculo- ventricular, and the opening into the pulmonary artery. It is of a triangular shape, the base being towards the right auricle, the apex near, but a little above the real apex of the heart; it is separated from the left ventricle by a thick partition, named septum cordis. The auriculo- ventricular opening is guarded by a fold of the lining membrane, named tricuspid valve, from presenting three triangular portions; of these one is anterior; another posterior; the third towards the left side, separating this opening from that of the pulmonary artery; this, the largest portion, has been named the septum of Lieutaud; at the attached base of this valve a ring of a tendinous nature is observed underneath the lining membrane ; this is named the zona tendinea, and enters partly into the structure of the tricuspid valve, giving strength to it. A similar tendinous zone exists at the left auriculo-ventncular opening. These tendinous zones are the most fixed points of attachment for the muscular fibres of the heart. To the edges of the valve little tendinous strings are attached, named chordce tendinea, which, at their other extremity are connected with projecting muscular bundles, named carnece columncs. At the upper and anterior part, and to the extreme left, is the opening of the pulmonary artery, towards which the walls become smooth. This part is named pars plana, and, from an appearance of contracting towards the opening, is called infundibulum. The carnece columnce may be divided into three sets, one attached to the entire length of the wall of the ventricle another attached at each end, with the centre free, the third attached at one end to the waU of the cavity, the other con- nected with the chordae tendinese. The opening of the pulmonary artery is guarded by three semilunar or sigmoid folds, or valves, each ot which, in the centre of its free margin, has a little granular body, called corpus sesamoideum, or corpusculum Arantii. The pulmonary artery, passing upwards and backwards, nearly two inches and a half within the pericardium, divides into right and left branches. The right, which is the largest, passes under the arch of the aorta, and separates