254 ANATOMY. the duodenum, and touches the ductus communis chole- dochus ; the left extremity rests against the spleen. Pro- jecting from the head of the pancreas is sometimes seen a small depending portion of similar structure, which (when it exists) is called the lesser pancreas. . It resembles the salivary glands in structure, and is nearly identical in the fluid it secretes; hence it is otten enumerated amongst the salivary glands. It has no distinct capsule, but a delicate cellular tissue unites the various lobules together. Each lobule emits a duct which passes directly into the large duct, running the whole length o the pancreas, from left to right. The pancreatic duct pours its fluid into the ductus communis choledochus, just before it opens into the duodenum; sometimes there is a second duct, which perforates the duodenum separately The arteries of the pancreas are branches from the hepatic, splenic, and superior mesenteric. Its veins go to the vena portse, and its nerves are from the great solar plexus. THE SPLEEN. The Spleen is a soft oblong body of a purpUsh colour, situated in the left hypochondrium, between the large extremity of the stomach and the false ribs; its lower part is behind the colon, and rests upon the upper end of the left kidney; it is externally convex, internally concave, and is covered by peritoneum and its tunica propria Its weight in the healthy adult varies from four to ten "''The V«nic« propria of the spleen is of a fibro-cellular nature, and besides covering the spleen generally, sends processes into it, which are connected by transverse band., named trabeculce. . , .^,1 The internal structure of the spleen is much disputed, some contend that the splenic artery t^minates m very small branches, which are coiled up like the slieU ot a snail, and which admit of considerable distension: the e have been named helicine arteries. This organ seems 0 be largely composed of cells, which communicate tree y with the ieins, as may be seen by injections, but less free > with the arteries ; there seems to be an interposed str^i^tm c between the two vessels ; these cells are elastic, like all part.