53 PERONEO-TIBIAL ARTICULATION. Ginghjmus. Its motions are flexion, extension, and slight lateral motion in the flexed position. Slight lateral motion is enjoyed in the flexed position of the joint, as when one limb is thrown across the other; it is favoured by the ligaments becoming relaxed, and by the round surfaces on the posterior part of the condyles of the femur corresponding to the semilunar cartilages; this motion is useful in progression, as we are thus enabled more efiectually to turn the foot outwards ; it is altogether wanting in the extended position, because then the greatest weight is thrown on the joint, and any lateral motion would render it insecure. THE SUPERIOR PERONEO-TIBIAL ARTICULATION. This articulation is formed by two bones, the tibia and fibula ; they are connected by two ligaments, the anterior and 'posterior peroneo-tibial, and a synovial membrane. The anterior peroneo-tibial ligament arises from the anterior part of the head of the fibula, passes upwards and inwards, and is inserted into the anterior surface of the tibia. The posterior peroneo-tibial ligament has a similar origin and insertion to the anterior; it is not so strong as the anterior ; the interior of the joint is lined by synovial membrane, which is either in close contact with that of the knee-joint, or communicates with it along the tendon of the popliteus muscle ; it belongs to the class Arthrosis ; its motions are very trifling. The Tibia and Fibula are connected in the centre of the leg by a strong fibrous structure, termed the inter- osseous membrane, or ligament; this, more extensive above than below, fills the interval which exists between the two bones, and gives origin to several muscles. Supe- riorly, this membrane is deficient, and leaves a large interval through which the anterior tibial artery, some branches of nerves, and a few fibres of the tibialis posticus muscle pass; inferiorly, it also leaves a passage, but much smaller, for the anterior branch of the peroneal artery; in the centre are many foramina for the trans- mission of vessels. Its anterior surface is covered by the tibialis anticus, extensor longus digitormn, extensor pro- jmus pollicis, and peroneus tertius muscles, to all of which