PHYSIOLOGY. 444 The glosso-pharyngeal nerve is thought by some to be also ail important nerve of taste. Of Smell.—The air, filled with the odorous effluvia which exhale from most bodies, being received into the nostrils by inspiration, carries these particles to tlie olfactory nerve, which is expanded over the surface of the pituitary mem- brane. By these means a kind of sensation is produced, which we call smell. Mucus is secreted to preserve the extremities of the nerves, and to lessen the too strong im- pression that would arise from the immediate contact of the odoriferous particles. Of the Functions of the Skin.—The cutis vera, or true skin, forms the organ of touch, besides which it is a, medium for absorption, and has a function analogous to that of the lungs, namely, the discharge of useless carbon from the system. The carbonic acid produced in the pro- cess is formed by the union of the carbon with the oxygen of the atmosphere in the capillaries. The skin has inuch influence in regulating the heat of the body, for it is by means of the sweat passing off and cooling the surface, that the body is enabled to bear exposure to a very high temperature. The cuticle, or epidermis, seems to blunt the otherwise too acute sensibility of the cutis vera, and to protect it from the impression of external bodies. Of the Voice.—The air expelled from the lungs passes through the trachea and larynx. In the latter, the passage for it is much smaller than in the trachea, and the air is forced through a narrow sht, the two sides of which are vibrating planes, and which then produce sonorous undu- lations in the transmitted current of air. The intensity of the sound depends on the length of the chordcB vocales, the distance between them, and the force with which the air is expelled. The modifications of the voice depend upon the alterations produced on the opening of the glottis by its muscles and ligaments ; and articulation, upon the movement of the muscles of the tongue and palate.