DISLOCATIONS. 647 down. Reduction: Place the patient on an elevated seat extend the joint, place one hand above the knee, and with the other move the leg suddenly backwards, so as to make as acute an angle as possible, and the cartilage slips into its place. Dislocations of the anMe-joint.—The tibia is dislocated from the astragalus in four directions, viz., imvards, out- wards, forwards, and backivards. Dislocation inwards is combined with fracture of the fibula, and is generally known as Pott's dislocation or fracture. It has been de- scribed particularly when treating of fractures. Disloca- tion of the tibia outwards is of rare occurrence. It is caused by the wheel of a heavy carriage passing over the leg or by a violent twist of the foot inwards, as in iumping or falbng. Symptoms: The foot is thrown inwards its outer edge resting upon the ground, and considerable iDro- jection IS made by the malleolus externus under the skin deduction: Relax the gastrocnemii muscles, draw down the foot in the axis of the leg, and push the lower ex- tremity of the tibia mwards towards the astragalus. The internal malleolus is always broken in this dislocation, and most frequently the external malleolus also. It is the most dangerous of the dislocations of the ankle-ioint, from the great violence required to produce it Dislocation /bnW*.—This arises from the body falling backwards whilst the foot is confined, as in jumpiL from a carriage m rapid motion with the toe pointed forwards Symptoms: The foot appears much shortened and fixed" and the toes pointed to the ground. The lower end of the tibia forms a hard swelling on the middle of the tarsus ihe heel appears lengthened, and there is a depression before the tendo-achillis. Reduction: Place theCatS in bed on his back, let an assistant grasp the tS ft Its ower part and draw it towards the bodv whilst Si, pu is the foot in a line from the leg, then push he t^Sk back, so as to bring it into its proper nlacP D,, Vu after-treatment the foot should be keot ben^ ?^-*^ angles with the leg, so as to prevent a ^ cuiSncf o?fhe accident. In this dislocation the tibii vpZT^ ■ lar and internal cuneiform bone t e fib ,,1,^^ three inches above the externTmn 1. i 7'-^ forwards with the tibia. S t,wfmavb7 ? n 'T^^ xue uDia may be partially dislo-