200 ANATOMY. consequence of the pressure produced by the evolution and growth of the lens. The space between the anterior surface of the iris and the cornea is called the anterior chamber of the eye. It is lined with a membrane which secretes the aqueous humour. A similar space exists between the posterior surface of the iris and lens, termed posterior chamber. The anterior chamber is about a fifth larger than the posterior. The iris is supplied with blood by the long, and anterior ciliary arteries: by meeting and anastomosing at the ex- ternal part of the iris, they form.the larger arterial circle; and again, by anastomosing near the pupillaiy margin, they constitute the circulus arteriosus minor: its nerves are derived from the lenticular ganglion and nasal branch of the fifth; its veins empty themselves into the vasa vorticosa. The external edge of the iris, by uniting with the choroid and sclerotic coats, forms a greyish circle, named the ciliary circle or ligament. The ciHary ligament is described by some as formed by the union of the cornea, choroid, and sclerotic coats. From its grey pulpy appearance and nerves terminating in it, some have supposed it to be a nervous ganglion. Between the ciliary ligament and sclerotic coat, a narrow circular canal may be found, most easily in the eye of the bullock, called the canal of Fontana. HUMOURS OF THE EYE. The aqueous humour contained within the anterior and posterior chambers, is secreted by its proper membrane. In quantity it is about three drops; its use is to properly distend the cornea, to allow free motion of the ins, and to act on the direction of the r-ays of light as they pass through it. The capsule of the aqueous humour possesses the power of regenerating the fluid when lost either by accident or operation. i i • j The crystalline lens is a transparent body, situate behind the iris, and in front of, but partially imbedded in, the vitreous humour. It is composed of concentric lamellas, softest on the outside, and contained in a capsule, between which and the lens, according to some, but denied by others, is a little fluid, named the liquor Morgagni.