THE OS CUBOIUES. 41 whole weight of the body. It presents a large projection posteriorly, named the tuberosity or heel. The particular parts to be noticed are the following: two large articu- lating surfaces for the astragalus; the smaller of the two is anterior, inferior, and more internal, and rests upon a part which is by some named sustentaculum tali, or ossis calcis. At the under surface of the bone and posteriorly are two tubercles, the inner one larger; on the outer surface there is a prominent tubercle, which gives attach- ment to the perpendicular ligament: the inner surface of the bone is concave, forming an arch for the passage of vessels, nerves, and tendons to the foot; anteriorly there is a large cartilaginous surface for articulation with the OS cuboides. The os calcis is articulated with only two bones, viz., the astragalus and os cuboides. The muscles attached to the Os Calcis: To the dorsal surface . . . Extensor brevis digitorum. posterior surface . . . Plantaris. bv tendo achillis . \ Gastrocnemius. \_ aoleus. r Musciilus accessorius. inferior surface, internally . i Abductor pollicis. I Flexor brevis digitorum. " >i externally . Abductor minimi digiti. anteriorly and inferiorly . | ^'«*'or- brevis pollicis. I Abductor pollicis. The OS naviculare or scaphoid bone is situated at the inner side of the foot, presenting internally a hook-like projection, which gives attachment to the tendon of the tibialis posticus and calcaneo-navicular ligament. This boue presents a cup-like cartilaginous surface posteriorly for articulation with the head of the astragalus; and three articulating surfaces anteriorly, for the cuneiform bones; the inner one is largest, the outer one smallest • on the external aspect there is sometimes seen a small cartilaginous surface for articulation with the os cuboides J he OS naviculare articulates with five bones, viz the astragalus, cuboid, and three cuneiform boues. Muscle attached : Tibialis posticus. The 05 cuboides is situated at the outer side of the foot larger internally, smaller and shorter externally, where it presents a groove for "the passage of the tendon of the