626 SURGERY. dull, heavy, and constant pain in the bone, -without any redness of the skin. By degrees the limb begins to swell, as the inflammation spreads to the more superficial parts, the periosteum becomes thicker, and the integuments in- flame, either through the whole length of the bone or in detached portions. There is, in general, some slight con- stitutional fever at this time. As the disease advances to its second stage, abscesses form, and burst externally at different points. The pus discharged is in general healthy, but may be thin and fetid, and cannot be increased in quantity by pressure, as it collects in the interior of the bone. The openings of the abscesses named cloacce are small, circular, and furnished each with a fungous papilla of a red colour, which obscures the apertures from view. Through these openings the dead bone, or sequestrum, begins soon to protrude (third stage), in pieces of variable size, sometimes large, but more frequently small and numerous, and are ultimately thrown ofi" or removed by the surgeon. The detached portions of bone are ex- ceedingly rough and irregular, their extremities present a worm-eaten appearance, and their surfaces appear as if acted on by the absorbent vessels. That portion of them which is lodged in the limb is of a white colour, but that exposed to the air generally becomes discoloured, sometimes black. Whilst by these means the old bone is being separated from the system, a new bone is in progress of formation, and is often completed before the old bone, or sequestrum, is thrown off, so that the patient may not be deprived of the use of the Umb at any period of the complaint. The new bone is formed around, so as to enclose the old bone; which, in process of time, makes its way through the new bone, and is thrown oflf as already described. It has been much disputed, whether the new bone is formed by the old periosteum, by the remaining ends of the old bone, or by a new periosteum formed from the adjacent cellular tissue. There can be no doubt that each of these agents conduces to the formation of the new bone; and that, should the old periosteum perish with the bone, nature possesses the power to form a new one, and thus produce the new bone. The progress of necrosis is in general exceedingly slow, 80 as to deserve the name of a chronic disease, years some-