ANATOMY. 12 the body, one at its upper and one on its under surface, one for each transverse process, and one for the spinous process. The vertebrae are perfectly ossified, about 25 years of age. LIGAMENTS OF THE SPINE. The vertebrae are connected together by powerful liga- ments, and the inter-vertebral substance. The connection between the two superior cervical vertebrae and the head, requires separate consideration. Articulation of the Occipital Bone, with the atlas and axis. A broad ligament passes from the anterior edge of the foramen magnum, downwards and backwards in the spinal canal, over the moderator and transverse ligaments, is inserted into the posterior surface of the body of the vertebra dentata, and is continuous with the ligamentum commune postering. It may be named occipito-axoidean ligament, and has been called apparatus ligamentosus colli. When this is raised we see the transverse and moderator ligaments. The moderator, odontoid, or checfc ligament of each side, arises from near the top of the odontoid process, passes outwards and a little upwards to be inserted into the edge of the foramen magnum, near the anterior extremity of the condyles of the occipital bone. They connect this bone with the head, and moderate the rotatory motion of the latter. The transverse ligament passes from the angular emi- nence on the inner edge of the atlas, internal to the superior articulating process, on one side, to a corres- ponding part of the opposite side. From its centre it generally sends a prolongation upwards to the edge of the foramen magnum, and one downwards to the second vertebra, thus assuming a crucial appearance, and then forming the crucial ligament: it is always broadest in the centre, and in structure approaches to fibro-cartilage. The atlas is connected with the occiput also by broad ligaments, anteriorly and posteriorly, which arc named occipito-atlantoidean ligaments. They proceed from the upper edge of the atlas, and are inserted into the corre- sponding edges of the foramen magnum. The posterior ligament is perforated by the vertebral ai-tery and sub-