FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 2/5 to the accelerator urinae; it surrounds the orifice of the vagina, attached in front and superiorly to the clitoris, behind to central point of the perineum. The internal organs of generation are the uterus and its appendages on each side, the ligamentum teres, Fallopian tube, and ovary. The uterus lies between the bladder and rectum; it is pyriform in shape, and is described as consisting of a fundus, body and cervix; the larger extremity, or fundus, IS free and rounded, and is turned upwards and forwards; from this the body contracts to its cervix which is sur- rounded by the vagina; it here presents a small transverse sht, the OS uteri or os tinea. The cavity of the uterus is small, and branches off at the superior and lateral parts into two lesser canals, which lead into the Fallopian tubes, all of which are lined by mucous membrane, covered by columnar and ciliated epithelium. In structure, the uterus IS composed of a peculiar muscular tissue non-striated, perforated by numerous vessels ; no distinct striped mus- cular fibres can be demonstrated in it. The uterus is covered by peritoneum, except where it projects into the vagma: this membrane forms on each side a large dupH- cature, the broad ligament of the uterus, which is reflexed trom It on the sides of the pelvis : this ligament allows of the distension of the uterus during pregnancy, and con- tains within Its folds the ligamentum teres. Fallopian tube and ligament of the ovary, and ovary, in order from before backwards on each side, together with the various vessels ana nerves. The ligamentum teres, or round ligament, the most anterior, stretches from the fundus of the uterus forwards and outwards, descends along the inguinal canal tl""TT'^^ ^P^^^'^'^S ^he labia." The roS igament, besides its peculiar fibres, is accompanied by some muscular fibres of the uterus, and arteriarbmnches from the spermatic artery, "rancnes The Fallopian tube is about three to four inches in length ; It runs from the side of the fundus uteri m,? . and upwards at first, and then a httit do^ard^^^^^^^ backwar.ls, and terminates in a loose fringeT^x remi v the corpus fnmbriatum, in the posterior . frflL p ^ IS a small opening, the morsns /«S b" Sfth la "tv of the uterus communicates with thai ol die pentoneum!