SURGEEY. 726 and proved fatal in fifteen minutes after, in many others it does not appear for weeks. The attack in general comes on gradually. The commencement is announced by a sensation of stiffness about the neck, root of the tongue, and muscles of the lower jaw, and some difficulty of deglutition. Soon after, the disease becomes fully marked, and spasms set in. The patient now lies in a supine pos- ture, with his limbs violently extended, the muscles of his face are contracted, his eyebrows corrugated, the upper eyelids drooping, the alse nasi extended, the angles of the mouth drawn backwards, and slightly downwards, and the teeth closed, or nearly so. The abdominal muscles are particularly rigid, and become as "hard as a deal board." The legs are stretched, the feet and toes ex- tended; there is an acute pain, which passes backwards, from the lower extremity of the sternum to the spine, apparently through the diaphragm. The spasms are particularly violent, and throw the body and head either forwards, backwards, or to one side, according to the form of the disease; they last but for a short time, seldom more than a few seconds, and return at intervals of variable duration. In severe cases the spasms appear as often as every minute, but in others there are but a few in the course of the twenty-four hours. The functions of circulation and respiration are but little affected; the patient breathes with tolerable freedom, except during the spasms; and the pulse is but little affected, except immediately after the attacks, or in the advanced stage of the disease, or shortly before death. There is a partial moisture on the skin, chiefly about the face, neck, and chest. The bowels are obstinately constipated, and the urine is scanty and high coloured. There is also a pecu- liar odour about the patient, which will alone serve to distinguish the disease. The sensorium is not affected. The acute form of tetanus generally proves fatal on the third or fourth day from the violence of the disease, and the consequent exhaustion of the patient. In some there is a remarkable relaxation of the spasms shortly before death, so as to give rise to the hope of a recovery, when a few spasms of extreme violence, and following each other with unusual rapidity, terminate the patient's sufferings. The chronic form of the disease is usually prolonged for