ANATOMY. 56 structure approaches to fibro-cartilage; it is lined by the synovial membrane. The interior of the ankle-joint is lined by synovial membrane, -which invests the cartilaginous surfaces of the bones, and passes up a very short distance between the tibia and fibula. The ankle-joint belongs to the class of Angular Gin- glymus (imperfect); its motions are flexion, extension, and slight lateral motion in the extended position of the foot. THE AKTICULATIONS OF THE FOOT. The articulations of the foot may be classed into those of the tarsus, metatarsus, and phalanges. THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE TARSUS. The articulations and bones of the Tarsus are united by numerous ligaments, named from the bones to which they are attached, and situated chiefly on the dorsum, and in the sole of the foot; they are hence divided into the dorsal and plantar ligaments; there are but few of them of such importance as to require a very detailed descrip- tion, consisting of bands of fibres passing from one bone to another. The principal are the calcaneo-navicular and the calcaneo-cuboid, or ligameyitum longwn, both plantar ligaments. The dorsal ligaments are much weaker than the plantar. The calcaneo-navicular ligament is situated at the inner part of the foot, where it is concealed by the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle, which lies immediately beneath it; it is attached posteriorly to the anterior part of the sustentaculum of the os calcis, passes forwards and in- wardsj and is inserted anteriorly into the under surface of the navicular bone ; the inferior surface of this ligament is covered by the tibialis posticus tendon; its superior is lined by synovial membrane, where it supports the head of the astragalus without being attached to it; its structure is fibro-cartilaginous, or even sometimes bony, particularly in its centre, where it lies between the tendon inferiorly and the bone superiorly; its principal use is to support the head of the astragalus, for which purpose it possesses much elasticity.