DESCRIPTION or THE TISSUES. 431 surface consists of a delicate scaly epithelium; next to which is the basement membrane of Dr. Todd, consisting of elastic fibres and areolar tissue ; and external to this is the subserous areolar tissue, connecting it with the neigh- bouring parts. The principal serous membranes of the body are, the arachnoid, pleura, pericardium, peritoneum, and tunica vaginalis. The basement membrane has numerous vessels and nerves external to it, but is not distinctly permeated by them. Synovial Membranes, like serous, line shut sacs; they differ chiefly in the quantity of the fluid which they secrete, and which contains a much larger proportion of albumen! They have three layers, viz., the epithelial, basement mem- brane, and reticulated connecting layer. There are varieties of them : 1st, those proper to the joints ; 2dly, those con- stitutmg burscE mucoscB, as they are called; and 3dly, the sheathing variety, extended around and accompanying tendons forming sheaths to them, as about the ankle and wnst joints. Mucous Membranes line all the open passages of the body; they are all exposed directly or indirectly to the contact of the atmosphere. Strictly speaking there are only two large mucous surfaces, one named gastro-puhno- nary, extending from the mouth and nose to the anus • the other named genito-urinary, lining the urinary and genital apparatus. To these a third might be added, viz., the mucous membrane lining the mammary tubes 'The'v present an attached and free surface, the latter being re- markably uneven in many parts of the body. Thev generally present a roseate tint, on account of the nume- rous vessels belonging to them. Mucous membrane in structure is more complex than serous, and bears a considerable analogy to the skin of which It may be called the internal reflection. It consists of epithelium, then basement membrane, and next the fibro-cellular layer, in which are found the numerous vessels and nerves supplying it in certain parts ThL membrane presents numerous smaU elevations, named papilla, but which contain the essential parts of the mem- orT., 1 'f' l'"'"'' '^'^ ""^^^'•^"^ depressions or sacs are found opening upon the surface, and pouring