PELVIC VISCERA. 265 brane is smooth and pale ; this is the trigone vesicate ; the apex of this is in front, and is formed by the nvula; the base is concave, turned backwards, and is formed by a line drawn from the opening of one ureter to the other ; the sides are formed by lines drawn from the ureters forwards and inwards to the uvula ; beneath these a few muscular fibres exist, named BelVs muscles, the use of which is said to be to preserve the obliquity of the orifices of the ureters. The trigone is the most sensitive part of the bladder. In Its contracted state, the bladder does not rise above the pubes, its inferior fundus is then almost the only part uncovered by peritoneum, which presents itself to the knife of the surgeon. The bladder in the female is larger than in the male, it is also wider, and rests posteriorly on the vagina and uterus, which, with the small intestines separate It from the rectum. In the child, the bladder is more cylindrical in shape, and reaches more into the cavitv ot the abdomen; its lowest part is its neck. The orifice of the urethra is heart-shaped ; from its base infenorly, the uvula, a small fold of mucous membrane projects. ' The urethra commences at the neck of the bladder and terminates at its external orifice, in the glans penis, 'it is divided into three portions, namely, the prostatic, membra- nous, and spongy. The prostatic portion is that which is surrounded by the prostate gland ; it lies within the pelvis 18 barrel-shaped, about one iuch and a quarter in leneth' and runs downwards and forwards. In its interior and on Its lower surface is the caput gallinaginis, ovverumontanum an elongated projection in front of which is a little depres- sion named smus pocularis, in the situation of which the common ejaculatory ducts open. On each side of the veru montanum is a depression {sinus prostaticus), on ^hich tL ducts of the prostate gland open. The membranous po't on of the urethra lies beneath the arch of the pubes from which It IS distant about three quarters of «n ^^17'! separated by the apex of the trl^guTar i^ t ^a^^^^^^^^^ sub-pubic hgamcnt; it is about three ouirtPri, nf ! , orifice, the most contracted portion of the canal 12