SURGERY. 618 of about half an incli; the splint may then be bent so as to mould itself to the arm. When the splint has been applied the arm should be bandaged to the side, and the forearm be carefully supported in a sling. Fracture of the humerus a little above the condyles is attended with a displacement such as to give rise to the appearance of a dislocation of the elbow-joint. Thus the triceps muscle, drawing upwards the olecranon process, throws forward the fracture so as to form an angle saUent anteriorly. It may be distinguished from a dislocation, by the crepitus, the facility of removing the deformity by extension, which returns immediately on the extending force being removed, and by the relative position of the condyles and olecranon process, these being altered from their natural condition. The angular splint is most suit- able in the treatment of this fracture. Fracture of the olecranon.—This process is occasionally broken by falls or direct violence applied to it. The broken portion is drawn upwards by the triceps; an interval is formed between it and the remaining portion of the bone, which is easily ascertained by the fingers. The fracture is to be treated by keeping the limb in the extended position, and bringing down the detached portion of bone in appo- sition, if possible, with the shaft of the ulna, by means of compresses, sphnts, and bandages. The splint is placed along the anterior surface of the arm and forearm. This fracture unites by ligament. The coronoid process of the ulna is sometimes broken. This fracture is attended generally with partial dislocations of the ulna backwards; it is treated by keeping the arm in the flexed position. , Fractures of the ulna.—The ulna is seldom fractured except by direct violence ; there is little displacement attending the fracture, as the bone is supported by the radius, and there is no difficulty in detecting it, from the bone being very superficial; it is treated with a roller applied round the fore-arm, two splints, and a sling to support the arm. Fractures of the radius.—This bone is most frequently broken at a short distance above the wrist-joint, a fracture which is often mistaken for a dislocation of the articula- tion. The fracture occurs in advanced age, and is caused by a fall on the heel of the hand, in which the whole