THE EYE. 197 under surface of the upper eyelid, near the external can- thus. The tears then pass along the surface of the eye towards the puncta lachrymalia, which they enter, and from which two canals are extended to the lacrymal sac. The canals leading into the sac differ in their direction ; the upper one forms an angle in its middle course, looking upwards; the lower one is nearly straight, and if curved, it is so downwards ; they are thus concave towards each other, and open close together, sometimes by a single aperture into the sac. The lacrymal sac is an elongated reservoir, situated be- hind the palpebral ligament, in a fossa formed by the os unguis and the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, opening inferiorly into the nasal duct. It is lined by mucous membrane, and by a thin fibrous layer forming a periosteum. The nasal duct, a continuation of the lacrymal sac of the nose to the inferior meatus, is about half an inch in length. Its direction is downwards, backwards, and outwards. Its bony parietes are the os unguis, the superior maxillary bone, and the inferior spongy bone. It opens into the inferior meatus of the nose, having a fold of mucous mem- brane in front of it. The globe or ball of the eye is composed of membranes or coats, humours, vessels, and nerves. The membranes of the eye are the tunica conjunctiva, sclerotica, choroidea, cornea, iris, retina, the hyaloid, cap- sule of the lens, and membrane of the aqueous humour. The tunica conjunctiva is a delicate mucous membrane reflected over the anterior third of the globe of the eye, and lining the internal parts of the eyelids ; it is a continuation of the skin, and also of the mucous membrane of the nasal fossae; it is most vascular where it lines the lids, less so upon the sclerotica, and least upon the cornea, upon which Its epithelial layer only extends. The sclerotic coat, so named from its hardness, is fibrous in structure, and continuous with the dura mater, through the medmm of the optic nerve, covering about four fifths of the globe of the eye ; it is thickest posteriorly, thinner at the sides, but thick again where it unites with the cornea; externa ly ,t is in apposition with the muscles, vessels, lacrymal gland and nerves; internally, with the