SURGEKY. 644 is forcibly extended, that is, brought behind the vertical line of the trunk; as, for example, a person, whilst walking, puts his foot into some unsuspected hole, he throws his body suddenly backwards to preserve his equilibrium, and the head of the bone starts forwards on the pubes. Symp- toms: The limb is rotated outwards, and cannot be turned inwards, it is shortened by an inch or an inch and a half, the trochanter major is nearer the anterior superior spinous process of the ihum than natural, the head of the bone forms a tumour in the groin above the level of, but under Poupart's ligament, on the outside of the femoral artery and vein, where it can be distinctly felt. By the stretching of the anterior crural nerve, which lies over the neck of the bone, great pain, numbness, and even paralysis are liable to be produced. The knee is generally carried backwards. Reduction: The extension is to be made in a line behind the axis of the body, so as to draw the thigh bone back- wai'ds, and when that has been continued for some time, a napkin is to be put under the upper part of the bone, and its head lifted over the pubes and edge of the acetabulum. Dislocation downwards and forwards into the obturator foramen.—This accident occurs when the thighs are widely separated, the force being applied on the inner side of the limb, the pelvis being fixed, or at its upper part near the joint, when the foot rests against the ground. Symptoms: In general, the limb is one to two inches longer than its fellow, the head of the femur being lower than the aceta- bulum; the trochanter major, which is less prominent than natural, is removed to a greater distance from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and the thigh is flattened in consequence of the elongation of the muscles. A hard round tumour is felt at the inner and superior part of the thigh towards the perineum. The leg is slightly bent, and the foot is brought forwards, but turned neither out- wards nor inwards, stiU there is variety in this respect. The body is bent in consequence of the tense state of the psoas and iliacus muscles; the knees are widely separated. Reduction: Place the patient on his back, separate the thighs as widely as possible, and place a girth between the pudendum and upper part of the thigh, fix the girth to a staple in the wall placed on the side of the patient corresponding to the injured limb, and then take hold of