335 OPERATIONS ON THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. the phrenic nerve is exposed in performing this operation, as it lies either on or close to the scalenus anticus muscle. There is only a space of about three quarters of an inch between the origin of the subclavian artery and the part from whence it gives off its branches, where the vessel can be safely tied. The ligature should be applied about midway between these two points, or perhaps a little nearer its first branch, in order that as much space as possible may be left for the formation of an internal coagulum and the subsequent contraction of the vessel. Although the subclavian artery has now been frequently tied in its first stage, we regret to say, that no favorable case has yet occurred; nor, indeed, can we be surprised at this want of success, when we reflect upon the contiguity of the arteria inno- minata and -carotid arteries, upon the short space there is for the application of a ligature, and on the numerous important parts that are disturbed during the performance of the operation. It has been-suggested by Mr. Hayden to secure, at the same time, the common carotid, so as to cause the obliteration, if possible, of the artena innominata by securing its two branches; this is a valuable suggestion which has been acted upon in two instances The possibility of tying the left subclavian artery, in its first stage, has been, and is still, questioned; notwithstanding, we have no hesitation in giving it as our opinion that it is practicable, and tliat the difficulties are not of such a nature as should deter the surgeon from undertaking its performance, when such becomes necessai-y for saving the life of his patient. One great objection to Its trial IS that Sir A. Cooper attempted this operation, and was forced to abandon it. ' The subclavian ai-tery may be tied in its second stage for the cure of aneurism of the axillary artery, extending to the third stage of the subclavian. For this purpose (the patient being placed as in the preceding operation) make an incision of about three inches long, and a httle above the clavicle, commencing at a short distance from its sternal end; divide the integuments, platysma fascia, and clavicular portion of the sterno-mastoid muscle the last on the du-ector; the subclavian vein, transversalis colli 'and humeri arteries, and phrenic nerve are exposed on the anterior suri;ace of the scalenus anticus muscle. These several narts having been drawn out of the way, pass a director behind the scalenus anticus muscle and divide it; the subclavian artery will now be brought mto view; pass the aneurism needle from below upwards taking care to avoid the cone of the pleura, which E behind the artery and the brachial plexus of nerves. ThTdange If Jr^'f "^^^ '=°"n'«'-balanced by one advantage S that the subclavian vein ,s separated from the artery bv the sea' enus an icus muscle; this is not sufficient to induce the urireon Jhirdltagl'"'"'"''"" "''^•^ "-'^^y ^'^y -cm"d Ke The third stage of the subclavian artery is the most favonhlP fnr the application of the ligature; it is tied L aneJ^rof £e