SURGERY. 564 The discharge in gonorrhoea is first of a thin serous cha- racter, it then resembles mucus, and finally assumes a purulent character; it is of a greenish colour, has a pe- culiar disagreeable smell, and stains the linen of a green colour. It proceeds at first from the anterior part of the mucus membrane of the urethra, one inch and a half of which only is engaged in the inflammation; this soon spreads, so as to occupy the whole of the canal and engage the lacunse. The mucous membrane is not ulcerated, unless in the aggravated form of the disease, the discharge pro- ceeding from the surface of the membrane. Treatment of Gonorrhoea.—In the early stages of this disease, it is best to observe the antiphlogistic regimen: thus, purgative medicines, and those of a saline nature more particularly, should be administered, and the patient confined to the drinking of mucilaginous fiuids, such as linseed-tea, barley-water, weak gruel, &c.; all food of a stimulating nature should be avoided. When the more acute symptoms have subsided, the balsam of copaiba, cubebs, and liquor potassse will be found useful, as also the occasional use of opiates. Fomentations and leeches also will be found beneficial. The copaiba balsam often disagrees with the patient, producing nausea and purging, and in some constitutions general fever, attended with a peculiar eruption of the skin. In the advanced stages of gonorrhoea, astringent injections, such as those of the sulphate of zinc or copper, the acetate of lead, acetate of zinc, or corrosive sublimate may be used. Many surgeons object to the use of injections, on the grounds of their giving rise to stricture. Some have recommended treating gonorrhoea from tbe outset by means of strong irritating injections. For this purpose they have used the solution of nitrate of silver, gr. xx to .fj of water. This plan will occasionally succeed, but more frequently fails, and often adds much to the patient's sufferings: the practice is dangerous. Tlie internal use of mercury, as a specific m gonorrhoea, cannot be too strongly reprobated. In favor- able cases of gonorrhoea, the symptoms gradually subside, the discharge lessens in quantity and changes in colour, loosing its greenish tinge, and finally disappears. On the contrary, some unpleasant symptoms, in general, attend the disease: the principal of them are chordee, bubo,