SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 341 other, and with the subscapular and occipital arteries, serre to re-establish the circulation in the axillary and brachial arteries when the subclavian artery has been tied. The transversalis col'li or humeri may arise from the third stage of the subclavian. The subclavian artery gives oflf in its second stage the following: Arteria cervicalis profunda passes backwards from the upper part of the subclavian artery, between the trans- verse processes of the sixth and seventh cervical vertebrae, ascends between the spinous and transverse processes of the vertebrae, supplies the deep muscles of the neck, and anastomoses with branches of the vertebral and occipital arteries. This artery, in most cases, is given off from the superior intercostal. Arteria intercostdlis superior descends from the lower part of the subclavian artery in front of the neck of the first nb, to the outer side of the first dorsal ganglion of the sympathetic, then in front of the second and third ribs, and opposite each intercostal space sends off a branch, which passes outwards between the two layers of inter- costal muscles, to which and the neighbouring muscles and the pleura it sends branches, and terminates by anas- tomosing with the intercostal arteries from the descending aorta, and with the external thoracic arteries. The let^ superior intercostal artery seldom supplies more than the two superior intercostal spaces. The third stage of the subclavian artery seldom gives off any branch. It is the best situation for tiie appli- cation of pressure, when it becomes necessary to command the circulation of the axiUary artery in amputation of the .shoulder-joint. THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES are connected to the upper posterior and outer part of the 411' J ^T" and numerous muscles. The examination of each extremity may be comprised under the heads of the axillary or scapulo thoracic brachial, anti-brachial, and palmar'regions. ^ Th.-oi^S hese several regions, we have the subclavian arte y co tinuing Its course, under the separate heads of aJuhi y and brachial artery, until it arrives opposite the corono d