SURGERY. 534 giving way beneath the fingers. No green spots form upon it as on the intestine. The omentum is here to be removed close to the mouth of the hernial sac, and the vessel secured as before. The practice pursued by some few, of placing a Ugature on the omentum, so as to cause its separation, cannot be too highly reprobated; it is a substitution of one species of strangulation for another. If we are called to operate on a large hernia, we should content ourselves with dividing the stricture without open- ing the hernial sac; should we cut into the sac, a large serous surface is exposed, and most probably peritoneal symptoms will supervene. In these cases we are seldom able to reduce the hernia, from the extensive adhesions that exist; it must be left therefore in situ, and supported, when the patient recovers the operation, in a bag truss. Here the stricture is frequently at the external abdominal ring; in this instance there is little danger of wounding the epigastric artery, no matter what direction we give the knife; unless, indeed, we prolong our incision to a most unwarrantable length. During the last few years, some eminent surgeons have strongly advocated relieving the stricture by a subcutaneous or extra-peritoneal section, in preference to opening the sac, the object being, of course, that peritonitis may be avoided, which is so apt to follow the usual operation; but, mas- much as the stricture often exists in the sac itself or its contents, the return of the intestine or omentum with the sac may not be of the slightest service. By far the greater number of surgeons recommend that the sac should be opened. , , . • • ; In-uinal hernia may be strangulated in the inguinal cawafbefore it has descended into the scrotum. As the tumour in such instances is much smaller than usual, it embarrasses the surgeon not a little, especially if the hernia has only projected through the internal abdominal rmg. Our incisions liere must be made directly over the tumour, until we arrive at the intestine. The coverings will de- pend on the part of tlie inguinal canal in which the hernia is contained.