ANATOMY. 68 three surfaces and three edges., The anterior surface, con- cave, is marked towards its upper part by the foramen for the nutritious artery, which is directed upwards; its pos- terior surface, irregular, is divided by a line, which com- mences at the lesser sigmoid cavity, and descends, first obUquely, then vertically, into two surfaces, an internal and external; the internal surface flattened, and slight y •concave above, rounded and convex below, is mferiorly subcutaneous. Of the three edges, the external or radial, sharp and projecting above, rounded below, gives attach- ment to the interosseous membrane ; the anterior, rounded; the posterior is subcutaneous, projects much, and gives insertion to the tendinous aponeurosis of the fore-arm. The inferior extremity of the ulna, unlike that ot tlie radius, is much smaller than the superior; it expands a Uttle, and is marked by two articular surfaces, an external and an inferior; the external is convex, long from betore backwards, and articulates with the radius; the inferior is somewhat circular, nearly plane, and is in relation witb the inter-articular cartilage of the wrist-jomt; it is bounded internaUy by a depression, into which is implanted tlie apex of this cartilage ; internally and posteriorly, the ulna terminates in a long-pointed and slightly curved process, termed the styloid process, which gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the wr.st-joint: on the posterior surface of this process is a deep groove, which transmits the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris and externally, and near its root, is the depression already described for the apex of the inter-articular cartilage. The structure of the ulna is the same as of all long bones ; it is developed bv three points of ossification, one each, for the body, the olecranon, and lower extremity; it articulates with but two bones, the humerus above and the radius above and below. Muscles attached to the Ulna: rBrachiaUs anficu.i. I Pronator radii teres. To coronoid process . . -i pig^-or digitorum siiMimis. (_ „ longus poinds. r Flexor digitorum profundus. To anterior surface ■ ■ ■{ " ""''J''':"'^'°''!:„n,, [ Pronator radii quadralvs. olecranon Triceps.