OBLiaUE INGUINAL HERNIA. 515 omentum, epiplocele; and where it consists of both intes- tine and omentum, entero-epiplocele. Inguinal Hernia, has been divided into complete and in- complete; in the former, the hernia has not escaped from the inguinal canal, in the latter it has passed that opening. In addition to these we meet with congenital and in- fantile hernia. These are modifications of the inguinal species. INGUINAL HERNIA is by far the most frequent of all, at least in the male subject, in consequence of the greater extent of the in- guinal or spermatic canal in this sex; in the female, on the contrary, femoral hernia is more frequent, from the greater breadth of the pelvis, and the consequently greater extent of the femoral ring. OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA. In this form of the disease, the hernia takes the course of the spermatic canal, with the spermatic cord; that is It escapes from the abdomen at the internal abdominal ring, about midway between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the symphysis pubis, descends Obliquely forwards and inwards, escapes throughout the external abdominal ring, and finally descends into the scrotum. To dissect this species of hernia, place the subject on the back, extend the Hmbs, and put a support beneath tHe pelvis. Make a vertical incision tlirough the integu- ments, from the umbilicus to the symphysis pubis; from the upper extremity of this carry another incision, down- wards and outwards, to the spine of the ilium. Carefully raise the skin, commencing at the umbilicus, and throvv downwards, on the thigh, the triangular flap thus formed On doing so a dense layer of cellular substance is brou Ait into view; t Hs IS the superficial fascia of inguinal hernia This IS perfectly continuous witli the common sub a- neous cellular tissue beneath the inteo-uments in oTlr regions of the body, and differs but liu!e froti exc p '-^/"^^ ^""'^ ^" of more impoiC ance from its connection with hernia. Above, the X - ficial fascia ,s continuous with the cellular tis ue cov Sng