290 EEGIOKAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. convex and rounded below, they extend to within a short distance of the sternum. Their cutaneous surface, convex, is covered by the sterno-hyoid, thyroid, and omo-hyoid muscles; the posterior surface, flattened and concave, rests on the trachea in the mesial line, and on either side overlaps the carotid artery, inferior thyroid vessels, the recurrent nerve, the crico-thyroid muscle, and the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. The left overlaps also the oesophagus. The thyroid gland is best marked in the female, and in the young subject, but varies much as to size in different individuals. It is covered externally by a thin layer of cellular substance, within which it is composed of a number of minute cells, which secrete a yellowish, serous, and somewhat viscid fluid, the use of which is wholly unknown as no excretory duct has as yet been discovered from the gland. The thyroid body is largely supplied with blood by the superior and inferior thyroid arteries on each side. The former are derived from the external carotid, the latter from the thyroid axis; these vessels anastomose freely in the substance of the gland, and terminate in veins which return the superfluous blood. These descend principally from the inferior margin of the gland, in front of the trachea, where they form a plexus, the thyroid 'plexus, which empties its blood into the left vena mno- minata. Its nerves are derived from the sympathetic and pneumo-gastric. In the foetus the thyroid gland is often connected inferiorly with the thymus gland. The thyroid gland is of much importance in a practical point of view. It is subject to a species of chronic enlargement, termed bron- chocele, or goitre, which appears to be a dilatation of the cells, of -which the gland is, in its normal state, composed. This enlarge- ment, in general, aflfects aU its lobes, but maybe confined to one. In many cases it increases to such an extent as to form a large pendulous tumour, overlapping the sternum. This disease is not dangerous. It is best treated with the various preparations of iodine. Sir E. Home recommeuded the tying of the thjToid arteries for its removal, but this operation has now been aban- doned in consequence of the danger attending it, and still more from the verv pai-tial success which followed its adoption. The removal of the tumour by the knife has also been recommended. This operation, although perfectly practicable, is rarely called for, as tbe swelling is seldom injurious to life or health; indeed, in some countries, it is much admired in females. Where the