SURGEUY. 494 lens being removed by the action of the absorbents. Some perform these operations by introducing the needle through the cornea; this is called the anterior, to distm- guish it from the preceding, which is named the posterior operation. Key's, Scarpa's, and Beer's needles for these operations have each their advocates, Esctraction of the cataract consists in cutting through the cornea, so as to open into the anterior chamber, and then remove the lens. The cornea knife (and Beer's is that generally preferred) is first made to penetrate the cornea about one line m front ol its junction with the sclerotic, and a little above its centre, by direct- ing the point backwards and inwards; the cornea being per- forated, the blade of the knife is pushed inwards, across the anterior chamber, in front of and parallel to the ins, and brought out on the inner side, exactly opposite the point of introduction of the knife, this being carried downwards, a flap is made of the lower half of the cornea. The lids are now to be closed, and the eye kept quiet for a short time; the flap is then raised, and the curved needle introduced into the anterior chamber, and the capsule cut through, when the lens will either faU out, or may be removed with the curette. Some prefer making the section ot the cornea upwards or obliquely to one side. The section up- wards has been advocated by Mr. Lawrence, and appears certainly to be preferable. The operation of extraction is best suited to the removal of the hard cataract, those previously described to the soft species of cataract. In the performance of these operations, much care is required, m order to avoid wounding the iris, and in that of extraction, to prevent the escape of the vitreous humour. Chddren, affected with congenital cataract, should be operated upon early, some say not later than the fourth month after birth. The operation best suited to this form of the disease is that of lacerating the capsule of the lens, either through the cornea, or by introducing the needle belund the edge of the cornea, as in the operation of couching. ON AMAUROSIS. Amaurosis is a paralysed state of the retina, or optic nerve, whereby vision is either very imperfect, or is wholly lost. The symptoms are impairment of vision, a dilated pupil, immovable iris, and a bright metalhc appearance of the interior of the eye. The disease is usually preceded by the appearance of muscsE volitantes, or flashes of fire