STTEGEEY. 490 Onyx is the term applied to the appearance produced by an effusion of lymph between the layers of the cornea. Staphyloma.—hi this disease the cornea projects for- wards, so as to form a conical or irregularly-shaped tu- mour, which prevents the approximation of the lids, and gives rise to inflammation of the eye. The cornea bemg opaque, and the iris adherent to its posterior surface, we can only relieve the patient from the irritation caused by the projecting tumour, without restoring vision. This is done by making an incision into the cornea, and allowing the confined humour to escape, when the eye collapses. We are informed that Dr. Jacob, of Dubhn, practises the passing of a seton across the anterior chamber with much success. After much suffering it often becomes necessary to slice off the cornea, and allow the entire humours to escape, when the remains of the globe collapse, and are entirely covered by the lids. Sclerotitis, inflammation of the sclerotic coat, is gene- rally known by the name of rheumatic ophthalmia, as it seldom occurs but in rheumatic subjects. It is characterised by considerable pain in the globe of the eye, generally in- creased at night; there is pain also felt about the forehead temple, and cheek of the side affected, a peculiar zone ot radiating vessels around the margin of the cornea, but not much redness of the conjunctiva; oftentimes rheumatism coexists in other parts of the body. p The treatment required varies with the seventy ot tne cases; sometimes general or local bloodletting may be necessary; a solution of belladonna is usefully apphed around the eye; the other remedies are colchicum, iodide ot potassium, calomel, and opium, and Dover s powder at night. A blister behind the ear is often useful. Iritis (Inflammation of the iris) may be either uiio- pathic or specific. Idiopathic iritis is characterised by more or less vascularity of the sclerotic coat, the vessels of which present a light red colour, and take a straigni course towards the margin of the cornea, within about one line of which they unite and form a vascular zone around it; the iris changes in colour from a blue or grey to a green, and from black or brown to red; the change commencing near its free margin; the membrane also becomes swollen, its pupillary margin being mdistmct, or