487 DISEASES OF THE EYE. Chronic conjunctivitis may succeed acute conjunc- tivitis, or commence as an idiopathic affection. It is characterised by a pale redness of the vessels of the con- junctiva, slight pain in the eye, an increased secretion of tears and imperfect vision. In the advanced stages, the conjunctiva lining the lids present a granulated surface; this, by rubbing over the eye irritates the organ, increases the inflammation, and ultimately induces thickening of the conjunctiva covering the cornea, thus destroying vision. Chronic conjunctivitis is treated by the appli- cation of blisters to the temples, behind the ears, and on the back of the neck; the occasional use of leeches be- low the affected eye, or to the cutaneous surface of the lower hd. If granulations be present, they should be removed by the free application of the sulphate of copper m substance. The nitrate of silver solution, gr. x to fj, dropped into the eye, will also be useful, as also the application of the dilute nitrate of mercury ointment applied to the margins of the lids. The general treatment of inflammatory affections of the eyes is regulated by the principles applicable to inflam- mation m other parts. Thus, when acute inflammation is present, bleeding, leeches, purgative medicines, and an- timomals will be found useful, followed, if necessary, bv the exhibition of mercury. In the less acute forms, the nitrate of silver solution, varying in strength accordine to the degree of inflammation, the Lotio Sulph. Zinci Lotio Acet. Plumbi, the Ung. Oxyd. Zinci, Nit. Hyd. dilut.! will be found beneficial. Some recommend the scarifi -cation of the conjunctiva covering the lids as a substitute for leeches ; but thi^ is frequently followed by an increase of the irritation. Warm formentations and cataplasms to the eye are also of service. The extract of balladonna ap- plied round the eye is useful in preventing adhesion of the ins taking place; some object to its use in the early stages of the inflammation, on purely theoreti al grounds^ A green shade relieves the patient, by excluding the t and irregular currents of air. '^iuuin^ tne liglit Scrofulous ov strumous conjunctivitis occurs eenerallv tesselstniie co^- ^^r^^"'"' P^^^ redness' of t 'e vessels of the conjunctiva, excessive intolerance of lio-ht a profuse secretion of tears, and by the presence of scro-