BASE OF THE BRAIN. 163 4. The posterior communicating, which runs almost directly backwards to join the posterior cerebral, thus completing the circle of Willis on each side. The vertebral artery of each side, after entering the skull at the foramen magnum, first gives off the anterior and posterior spinal arteries to supply the cord, and next the inferior, or iposterior cerebellar artery, which is dis- tributed to the lower and back part of the cerebellum; after which it unites with its fellow of the opposite side to form the basilar artery, which lies on the basilar process of the base of the skull. The basilar artery runs forwards and upwards, giving off transverse branches to the pons, internal ear, and parts of the base of the brain, and finally divides at the upper border of the pons varolii into its four terminal branches. The anterior pair of which are, the posterior cerebral, and the posterior, the superior or anterior cerebellar. These two are separated on each side by the third pair of nerves. The circle of Willis is a very curious arterial communi- cation, by means of which all the four great cerebral arteries anastomose very freely with one another. This space is not circular, but heptagonal in* shape, it being formed m front by the anterior communicating artery, next to which, on each side, lie the anterior cerebral arteries, the posterior communicating arteries connecting these with the posterior cerebral arteries which form the posterior angle. Within the circle of WiUis are seen the following parts • from before backwards, the lamina cinerea, the optic commissure, tuber cinereura and infundibulum, corpora albicantia, locus perforatus, and a small portion of the crm-a cerebri, with the roots of the third pair of nerves Ihe arteries of the brain are remarkable for their tor tuous course, and free anastomosis with one another their division luto minute branches previously to enterino- the substance of the brain, and, lastly, for the^hirmess otth r coats, the middle one being apparently deficient The arteries of the brain are also extremely liable to ossific deposit in old age. The veins of the brain empty themselves into the various rgXrVlf ""'^ ^'^^-^ "^^-nd