74 ANATOMY. clavicular articulation, the scapulo-clavicular, the scapulo- humeral or shoulder-joint, the elbow-joint, the superior and inferior radio-ulnar articidations, the wrist-joint, and the carpal, metacarpal, and phalangeal articulations. THE STERN O-CLAVICULAK AETICDLATION. The sterno-clavicular articulation is formed bet-sveen the sternum and' clavicle ; for this purpose the sternum presents on its upper surface, and near its external and posterior part, an articular surface, directed backwards and outwards, which receives the sternal end of the clavicle: both these surfaces are incrusted with cartilage, and are connected by the anterior and posterior sterno-clavicular, and the inter-clavicular ligaments, an inter-articular car- tilage, and a synovial membrane. The anterior ligament arises from the anterior surface of the sternal extremity of the clavicle, passes downwards and inwards, and is attached to the anterior surface of the sternum, where it is lost in the aponeurosis covering this bone. . The posterior sterno-clavicular ligament arises from the posterior part of the sternal extremity of the clavicle, de- scends inwards, and is inserted into the posterior surface of the sternum. The inter-clavicular ligament has no immediate con- nection with the joint; it is placed behind, and a little above the upper extremity of the sternum, and stretches transversely from the sternal extremity of one clavicle to that of the other ; it is exceedingly variable as to size and form; its upper edge gives attachment to the cervical fascia. Its principal use is to connect the clavicles together. On cutting into the sterno-clavicular articulation we see the inter-articular fibro cartilage ; it is a somewhat circular plate of fibro cartilage, placed between the clavicle and sternum. Like all iuter-articular cartilages, it is thick in the circumference, is thin and sometimes perforated m the centre; superiorly, it is attached to the sternal cud of the clavicle ; inferiorlv and internally, it is thin and continuous with the cartilage of the first rib • anteriorly and posteriorly, it has attached to it the anterior and posterior sterno- clavicular ligaments; this cartilage, when perfect, separates