306 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. Hjemorrhage from the tongue frequently occurs in consequence of wounds or deep ulcers. In cases of wounds, it is difficult to take up the divided ends of the vessel, in consequence of its retracting into the substance of the tongue. The bleeding may often be checked by bringing the internal surfaces together by means of a suture. If this and other local applications fail, the lingual artery may be tied by making a vertical incision over the digastric tendon ; this being exposed, the artery will be brought into view, either above or below the tendon, as may be desired. Mr. Harrison, in his work on the arteries, recommends a trans- verse incision for this purpose through the integuments and fascia from the os hyoides to the mastoid muscle. When profuse bleeding takes place from a deep ulcer, and local measures have been found ineffectual to repress it, the lingual artery should be tied near to the digastric tendon. Some recommend in both these cases the tying of the external carotid artery, and this indeed is the operation which will be found most easy of per- formance, and perhaps more eifectual from its interrupting the flow of blood by means of the anastomosis between the lingual and labial arteries. The posterior branches of the external carotid are the following: 1. Arteria muscularis vel stemo-mastoidea is an irregular branch, which frequently arises from the superior thyroid or the occipital. It runs downwards and outwards to the sterno-mastoid muscle, accompanied by the spinal accessory nerve. It supphes this muscle, the scaleni, and rectus capitis anticus major, anastomosing with branches from the occipital, superior thyroid, and trans- versalis colli arteries. 2. Arteria posterior auris arises from the second stage of the external carotid artery. It runs upwards and backwards along the inferior margin of, and partly imbedded in, the parotid gland, towards the mastoid process; it then ascends between this and the ear, and divides into two branches, an anterior and a pos- terior; the anterior branch is lost in the integuments and cartilage of the ear, principally on its posterior surface; the posterior branch ascends on the lateral surface of the cranium to the integument and temporal muscle, where it anastomoses with the branches of the temporal and occipital arteries. The posterior trunk sends off a small branch whicli enters the stylo-mastoid foramen, to supply the temporal bone and internal ear. 3. Arteria occipitalis arises from the outer surface of the external carotid, immediately below the digastric muscle. Shortly after its origin it hooks round the lingual nerve, which at the same time gives off its descendens noni branch; the occipital then crosses the internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, the pneumo-gastric and spinal accessory nerves, ascends under cover of, and conducted by the posterior belly of the digastric muscle towai-ds the base of the cranium; it here runs in a groove in the