640 SURGERY. off into the articulation, and by others to be formed by a deposit of lymph or blood on the outer surface of the mem- brane, which deposit becoming organised soon projects into the articulation, and, being detached by sudden vio- lence, lies loose in its interior. Foreign bodies in the interior of a joint are productive of much distress to the patient, as they are frequently, in walking, caught between the extremities of the bones, and thus cause excruciating pain, followed by inflammation of the synovial membrane. Repeated attacks of this description may induce a chronic inflammation of the joint, which may terminate in its dis- organisation. The treatment of foreign bodies consists in moderating the inflammation of the joint when present, and subse- quently removing them by making a valvular subcutaneous incision on tlie inner side of and into the articulation, when, by moderate pressure, the bodies will be discharged: the wound should be immediately closed, and made to unite by the first intention. The violent attacks of inflam- mation of the joint, that have so frequently followed this operation, have deterred many surgeons from its perform- ance ; most prefer the wearing of a laced knee-cap over the joint, which fixes the foreign bodies to one position. ON DISLOCATIONS. A joint is said to be dislocated, or luxated, when the articular surfaces of the bones, which enter into its forma- tion, are so displaced as not to correspond to each other. Dislocations are produced either by external violence, such as blows and falls, or by the action of muscles. The general sijmptoim of a dislocation are, deformity, shortening of the limb, (the dislocation of the humerus into the axilla, and of the femur into the foramen ovale, being the only cases in which the limb is elongated,) loss of power and motion in the part, more or less swelhng and pain, which is increased on moving the limb. Dislocations should be reduced as soon after their occurrence as possible, that advantage may be taken of the faintness of the patient, and the relaxed state of most of the muscles. In a short time the patient recovers from the shock of the accident, the muscles contract, so as to accommodate themselves to the displaced bone, and effusion takes place; all of which