118 ANATOMY. Ins. Bodies of the four in- ferior ribs anterior to their angles. Use. To depress the lower ribs, and to fix them in forced inspu'ation. . Splenius colli. Or. Spines of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth dorsal vertebrae. Ins, Transverse processes ot three or four superior cervical vertebrse. , , , Use. To bend the neck back- wards and to one side. Splenitis capitis. Or. Spmes of two superior dorsal, and three or four inferior cervical vertebrse and the ligamentum nuchai. Ins. Posterior part of the mastoid process, and the occi- pital bone, below its superior transverse ridge. , , , Use. To bend back the head, and each maj incline it laterally. Fourth Layer. The term Ekectob Spin.® is now applied to the mass of mus- cles along each side of the spine, described under the names of sacro-lumbalis and longissimus dorsi, and even bysome mcluding the musculi accessoru, spmahs dorsi, and cervicalis ascendens. I shall give them separately in accordance with many authors. Saceo-lumhaiis. Or. By a common tendon from the pos- terior third of the crest of the Uiuni, the oblique and transverse processes of the sacrum, sacro- iliac ligaments, and transverse and oblique processes of the lumbar vertebrse. Ins. AH the ribs, near their ^""^se. To bend the spine back- wards, and somewhat to one side, and to compress the ribs. Longissimus doksi. Or. In common with the former, from the posterior surface of the sac- rum, and transverse and oblique processes of lumbar vertebrse. Ins. All the dorsal vertebrse, and all the ribs between their tubercles and angles. Use. To support the spine, and bend it backwards and to one side. Spinalis boesi. Or. Two superior lumbar and three in- ferior dorsal spines. Ins. Nine superior dorsal spines. Use. Like the former. Musculi accessorii. Or. Superior edge of seven or eight lower ribs. Ins. Lito the lower border of the upper ribs. These are evidently sUps of the sacro- lumbalis. Use. To assist the former. Cekvicalis descendens or ASCENDENS. Or. Prom four or five superior ribs, between their tubercles and angles. Ins. Transverse processes of fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrse. Use. To bend the neck back- wards and laterally, and may raise the ribs. Transveksalis colli or Ceb- vicis. Or. Ti-ausverse processes of five or six superior dorsal vertebrffi. Ins. Transverse processes of thi-ee or four inferior cervical vertebrse. Vse. ^luch the same as the former. Tkachelo-mastoideus. Or. i