TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. 673 tation after the operation for the cure of aneurism, the circulation should he previously commanded by every means in our power, as the anastomosing branches having become enlarged, and most probably having lost their contractihty from over distension, pour out the blood in large quantities from innumerable orifices. Mortification of the sac in general occurs where the tumour has been of considerable size. Should the efforts of the patient's system be insufficient to throw off the slough and estabUsh a cure, amputation is to be per- formed. 3. The formation of abscesses along the course of the vessel should be prevented by pressing out the matter carefully, and then placing compresses and bandages along the course of the artery; if these means should not be effectual, a counter-opening must be made at the most depending part. The effects of a too free anastomosis have already been mentioned. Under the head of constitutional causes, may be enu- merated the bursting of internal aneurisms, disease of the lungs, or other vital organs, erysipelas, &c. Many other plans have been recommended for the securing of the artery beyond the aneurismal tumour, such as numerous ligatures, metallic wire, and instruments of various descriptions. They have been all found in- judicious. We need hardly remind the young surgeon that pre- viously to resorting to the operation for aneurism, a care- ful examination of the patient should be made as to the state of the thoracic and abdominal viscera, the existence of internal aneurisms, &c. Where an aneurismal tumour is so large that it is likely to impede by its pressure the formation of the collateral circulation, and especially when the tumour is in an inflamed state, amputation is to be preferred. Aneurism at the bend of the elbow, most frequently the consequence of a wound, is now generally treated bv cutting down upon the tumour, and tying the vessel above and below the wound. Whatever deviation from this lino of treatment, a circumscribed aneurism (in which we have a sac to confine the blood, and thus assist us in our efforts,) may admit of, it is now I believe the almost uni- 29