58 ANATOMY. to a tripod, the three points of support being, one pos- teriorly at the OS calcis, anteriorly at the ball of the great toe, and externally at the projecting base of the httli metatarsal bone; the last, however, seldom touches the ground. THE UPPER EXTREMITIES. The upper extremities may be divided each into the shoulder, arm, fore-arm, and hand. THE BONES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITIES consist of the clavicle and the scapula, which are those of the shoulder, the humerus or bone of the arm, the radius and ulna, which constitute the/ore-am, and the bones of the hand, which are divided into those of the carpus, metacarpus, and phalanges. The carpal bones are eight in number viz. the os scaphoides or namculare, lunare, cuneiforme or pyramidale, pisiforme, trapezium, trape- zoides, magnum, and unciforme. The metacarpal bones are five in number, one for each finger ; the phalanges are like those of the foot, fourteen in number, three for each finger and two for the thumb. BONES OF THE SHOULDER. The clavicle, or collar-bone, extends from the sternum to the scapula; it is divided into its sternal md scapular extremities, and its body or shaft. , • i The sternal, or anterior extremity of the clavicle, is thick, strong, and triangular ; it is marked by a carti- laginous surface, for articulation with the sternum ; its edges give attachment to ligaments; from this the body of the clavicle passes upwards, backwards, and outwards, covering the first rib and coracoid process of the scapula, curved on itself so as somewhat to resemble an italic having its convexity first turned forwards and then back- wards; near the sternum it gives attachment t.o the cla- vicular position of the pectoralis major muscle, by its nosterior concave portion to the sterno-cleido mastoid Inferiorly it presents a rough surface, for the insertion of the Jhomboid ligament. In the centre the clavicle becomes smooth, circula?. and contracted, and gives ong.n to no Tusc liar fibres; it is here that the two curves, of which I