GLANDULAR TUMOURS. 685 they pass into a state of suppuration; they then redden, become painful, break, and discharge a flocculent cheesy- looking matter, and continue to discharge for a long time. Scirrhous lymphatic glands may be divided into non- malignant and malignant. The non-malignant scirrhous tumour is hard, globular, not discoloured, nor painful; its hardness is permanent, and it steadily increases in size, generally single, sometimes double, and even clustered, as in the axilla. On examination the tumour is covered with one or more coats formed by the surrounding cellular tissue and producing a cyst. The interior presents a white firm centre, from which matter of the same kind radiates towards the surface; and between these, a reddish sub- stance resembling the healthy structure of the gland. The term scirrhous is used here merely to express their hard- ness ; for they are not malignant and might be left alone, were it not for their mechanical inconvenience. Malignant tumours of lymphatic glands admit of a divi- sion into scirrhous mahgnant and fungoid. The scirrJious malignant disease begins with glandular induration, with much hardness but little soreness or pain at first; after some months, pain is perceived, other neighbouring glands become affected, the patient begins to lose flesh and strength, the glands become much enlarged, the pain in- creases and particularly affects tlie back if the tumour is situated in the groin, watery effusion takes place in the thorax, abdomen, and extremities, and the patient gra- dually sinks. Sometimes the original tumour ulcerates and produces a painful, unsightly sore. Thefunffoid disease of lymphatic glands is less frequent than the scirrhous. This is very deceitful and insidious in its progress; at first it is small, has a soft consistence, and its connections are not precisely definable ; without colour at first, it sometimes becomes afterwards of a livid red and may be mistaken for an abscess. If cut into, nothing but bloody water or some blood is discharged; if extirpated It IS likely to appear again in the cicatrix, and gradually affects other glands and the large organs. This disease is said to be distinguished by the softness of the tumour, its tendency to discoloration, its early influence on the constitution, and the extent to which it aflects the lymphatic system. An operation may be tried