SYPHILITIC EEUPTIONS. 581 use of astringent lotions, injected up tlie nose, and the exiiibition of sarsaparilla, or the nitric acid internally, ■will be most beneficial. SYPHILITIC ERUPTIONS are liable to much variety. The most common kind met with is the copper-coloured eruption, in which the blotches rise a little above the surface of the skin, and, if they o-o on to ulceration, form thick incrustations. They are at- tended with very little pain; an itching, rather than a painful sensation, is felt in the part, and increases towards evening. In some, the eruption is of considerable mag- nitude, but is unattended with ulceration; in others, ul- ceration wiU be observed, with a very ragged edge. The parts in which venereal eruptions form most frequently, are the head, face, and roots of the hair, the back of the neck and shoulders, and palms of the hand. In some, the whole surface of the skin is covered over with the eruption. In many, the eruption is of the papular form • in others, the pustular will be found to predominate: the papular is the mildest form, and terminates by desqua- mation ; the pustular frequently runs into ulceration. If the ulcerations be exposed, crusts form on the surface of the sores, particularly on the face and forehead; these rise to a considerable height, and assume a conical shape and are named i-upia. Eruptions are the earliest secon- dary symptoms of syphilis, appearing in general from the sixth to the tenth week after the formation of the primary sore; they are usuaUy accompanied by sore throat and inflammation of the iris, and not unfrequently by pains m the head, joints, and bones. They are, in most cases preceded by inflammatory symptoms, such as pains in the turbanTe ' general febrHe dis- The treatment of these eruptions consist in the Pvbi bition of the blue pill, night and morning, if mucI nflam mation be not present; if this should^be th case the plummer s pi n,ay be given, with sarsaparilla, and he irritation ot the skm controUed by the warm bath and diaphoretic medicines. Nitric acid will als^ be found useful, particularly when much mercury has been already given, and the constitution of the patient is in a debdS 5