ANATOMY. 82 THE RADIO-CARPAL ARTICULATION, OB WRIST-JOINT. This articulation is formed by four bones, the inferior extremity of the radius, and three of the first row of carpal bones, viz., the os scaphoides, os lunare, and os cuneiforme, together with the inter-articular fibro-cartilage, and synovial membrane. THE LIGAMENTS OF THE WRIST-JOINT. The Hgaments of the wrist-joint are, the external and intertial lateral, the anterior and posterior ligaments, lined by synovial membrane. The external lateral ligament is attached to the point of the styloid process of the radius; from this its fibres descend,'diverging, and are implanted infenorly into the outer surface of the os scaphoides, the os trapezium, and the anterior annular ligament: its external surface corres- ponds to the radial artery which winds round it The internal lateral ligament, not so well marked as the preceding, is attached to the point of the styloid process of the vdna, descends forwards, and is implanted into the OS cuneiforme and the os pisiforme, some of its fibres passing to the anterior annular hgament. The a7iterior ligament is an irregular set ot fibres, which descend from the lower extremity and anterior sur- face of the radius, to be attached into the anterior surface of the OS scaphoides, os lunare, and os cuneiforme. The posterior ligament, not so strong as the preceding, is attached like it to the lower extremity of the radius on its posterior surface; from this it descends, and is inserted into the posterior surface of the os lunare and os cuneiforme. , ,1-4 On cutting into the articulation we observe the inter- ai-ticular fibro-cartilage, which intervenes between the ulna and os cuneiforme. It is triangular in shape; its anex is attached internally into the depression at the root of the styloid process of the ulna; it passes transversely outwards, and is implanted by its base into the ndge which separates the ulnar from the carpal articu ating surface on the radius. Its surfaces are concave, are Uued by synovial n embiane, and correspond to the ulna above the os ame orm beneath; its edges are connected to the