TTTF, OS CUNEIFORME. 69 Anconeus. Supinator radii brevis. j Extensor carpi ulnaris. posterior surface . . .( „ ossis metacarpipollicis. „ primi intemodii pollicis ? „ secundi intemodii pollicis. ,, indicis. THE BONES OF THE HAND. The bones of the hand consist of the carpal, metacarpal, and phalanges. The carpal bones are eight in number, and are divided into two rows, a superior and inferior, or carpal and metacarpal;. each containing four bones : the superior row contains from without inwards the os scaphoides or navi- cidare, the os lunare, the os cuneiforme or pyramidale, and the OS pisiforme ; the inferior, the os trapezium, os trape- zoides, OS magnum, and os unciforme. The OS scaphoides is placed between the radius superiorly, the second row inferiorly, and the os lunare internally; it IS the largest of this row, is curved and elongated down- wards and outwards; it has three articular, and three non- articular surfaces ; into the external surface is implanted the externallateralligament of the wrist-joint; it articulates with five bones —the radius, the trapezium, and trapezoides, the OS lunare, and os magnum. No muscle is distinctly attached to it. The OS lunare lies between the scaphoid and the cuneiform bone, the radius superiorly, and the second row inferiorly; it is irregular in shape, and has four articular and two non-articular surfaces: its external articular surface is concave and semilunar, whence its name and articulates with the os scaphoides. It articulates 'with fave bones, the radius, the os magnum, and unciforme, the scaphoid, and the cuneiform bone. It has no muscle attached to it. The OS cuneiforme or pyramidale is placed at the inner side of the carpus, between the ulna superiorly, the unciform bone infer.orly, and the os lunare ixternally on a plane interior to it ; it has four articular and two non articular surfaces : of the articular surfaces the supe ior directed a httle inwards, is convex, and corresponds to tJ.^ triangular cartilage of the wrist-joint, which separates it