GROTVTH OF BONE. 3 cartilaginous ; in time the latter are incrusted with a bony deposit. Before osseous union with the shaft, they are named the epiphyses; after union, the expanded extremi- ties or eminences are named apophyses or processes. As a bone increases in thickness and hardness, its par- ticles are not only elongated and new ones deposited, but fresh strata are formed varying in direction with the nature of the bone. In the cylindrical bones, they are deposited within the circumference, and thus tend to the diminution of the internal space. The fibres are also connected together by thin transverse plates, which give bone on minute inspection a cellular appearance, which, however, in some instances, is more of a distinct laminated cha- racter. {Fide Physiology.) The circular deposits do not reach the centre of the long bones, but leave a cavity which contains the marrow, differing in quantity and quality at different ages, inter- sected however by some fibres which stretch across, and produce a latticed-work appearance. In the extremities these fibres are very numerous, and give them quite a cellular structure, which is named cancellous, and which is also observed to be the structure which forms the bulk of the irregular bones. The cancelli are lined with a delicate membrane, which has been named the membrana medidlaris. The marrow, like fat, is contained in distinct cells, which do not communicate. Minute arteries can be traced into them. The marrow diff'ers with age: in the child, it is thin and sanguineous, in the adult more oily and consistent; and in old age, is again much thinner. The bones are covered with a peculiar membrane, named periosteum, the surfaces of which correspond with the parts in relation with it. A similar membrane placed upon cartilages is called perichondrium. It is of use in serving as a point of attachment of muscles, which also cause depressions and eminences in the bone, according to the mode and nature of their attachment. The periosteum is the direct medium, through which the bone (at least Its outer part) is supported both with nourishment and vitality; from it the minute arteries proceed to enter the internal parts. If a part of the shaft of a long bone dies, named the