330 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. • pliaryngeus muscle can somewhat dilate the pharynx in the transverse direction. The tonsil or amygdala is lodged in the triangular interval between the pillars of the fauces. It is ovoid m shape, with the larger extremity turned upwards; it is composed of a congeries of mucous follicles, covered by mucous membrane. Its free surface is irregular, in con- sequence of the number of orifices of the mucous foUicles. Its outer surface rests against the superior constrictor of the pharynx. The tonsil receives its supply of blood chiefly from the tonsiUitic branch of the labial artery; its nerves are derived from the tonsiUitic plexus, formed by branches from the lingual, glosso-pharyngeal, and sympa- thetic nerves. The tonsils are subject to attacks of acute and chronic inflammation (cynanche tonsillaris). In the former case, matter frequently forms in the gland and requires to be let out in consequence of the uneasiness it produces, and also from the enlargement interfering with respiration and deglutition. Much caution shou d be ob- served in opening these abscesses, as the gland is closely related on its outer surface to the internal carotid artery. The instrument selected for the purpose should be directed backwards, or back- wards and inwards; if directed outwards the artery is in much danger,—a tonsil-lancet has been invented, and is by far the safest instrument. An emetic will often succeed in causing the abscess to burst. We have found scarification of the tonsil very bene- ficial in an early stage of inflammation for the ^0^. 1 ^J""^ assists in lessening the inflammation, and, should matter form, it more easily makes its way through either of the scarifications The tonsil becomes much enlarged after it has been subjected to repeated attacks of inflammation: it then forms a chrome swelUng, which distresses the patient much by imped ng he action of respiration and deglutition Not ""^^'l^'^ ^ hearing becomes impaired from the pressure of the tumour against the Eustachian tubes. Should local app ications be found insufiicient to produce the absorption of the swelling a Portion of it may be removed with a ligature, or the knife, or tonsil guil o- tine. Excision, although frequently practised mth success is not free from danger. If the surgeon determines on its/<l«Pt'°"'*^e gland should be carefully drawn fon^-ards from its deep relations by a tenaculum passed through it, or hooked forceps, and be carefullv removed by a bistoury or curved blunt-pointed scissors After the operation some styptic, such as a strong solution ot nitrate of silver, sulphate of zinc or copper, should be «iPP"f^ " the bleeding surface in order to check the hemorrhage, uiccrs occasionally form on the tonsil from acute, but more frequently from venereal inflammation.