SURGERY. 590 is of a pyriform shape, with the base below ; the integu- ments of' the scrotum are distended and deprived of their corrugated appearance, the raphe is thrown to the oppo- site side, and the penis appears diminished in size. The swelling is light in proportion to its size, and fluctuation may be perceived, when the fingers of one hand are applied to one side of the tumour, and the surgeon taps slightly with the fingers of his other hand upon an opposite point of the swelling; it is also in general transparent. Hydro- cele is unattended with pain or uneasiness, except such as is occasioned by its bulk, and its dragging on the cord, which frequently induces pain in the inguinal and lumbar regions. The testicle is situated to the back part of the swelling, and opposite about the junction of its upper with the two lower thirds. "When the above symptoms are present, hydrocele is easily distinguished; but this is not always the case; thus, it may be elongated in shape, or may present an hour- glass appearance, in consequence of partial adhesions of the tunica vaginalis. Fluctuation cannot be always per- ceived, from the large quantities of fluid in the tumour, and consequently tense state of its coverings; it may be opaque fromi the thickness of the tunica vaginalis, or the dark colour of its contents, and the testis may be ad- herent to any part of the tunica vaginalis from previous adhesions. . j i Hydrocele, too, is sometimes accompanied by other diseases, which add to the difficulty of the diagnosis. The most frequent are hernia and enlarged testis. In the former, the hernial tumour passes down behind the sac of the hydrocele. Hydrocele may be confounded with other diseases: of these the most likely are hernia, enlarged testis, and fungus h^ematodes. It may be dis- tinguished from a hernia by this commencing from above, by the difl'erence in their shape, the open state of the external abdominal ring in hernia, and by the surgeon being enabled to feel the intestine, by grasping the cord immediately below the ring, and the difi"ereuce in the rela- tions of the testis in the two cases. An enlarged testis is distinguished from a hydrocele by its greater weight, its more globular form, its want of transparency, and the history of the case. Fungus hnematodcs is the most