156 ANATOMY, ^ forwards, may be traced over the crura cerebri to their origin in the optic thalami and corpora quadi'igemina. External to the optic commissure may be observed a triangular space, of a brownish colour, called the substantia perforata antica; a portion of the inferior surface of the corpora striata. It has its name from its being perforated by several minute tufts of vessels, which pass through it to supply the interior of the brain. In this situation may be seen the three origins of the olfactory or first nerve, its most internal one being from the internal substance of the anterior lobe, and generally indistinct; its middle one, from a little tubercle of the grey substance of the anterior lobe and the substantia perforata antica; whilst its external root runs for a short distance along the fissure of Sylvius, in which it terminates. The fissure of Sylvius is a deep groove, which separates the anterior from the middle lobe. It commences internally at the substantia perforata antica, and it runs outwards and very slightly forwards to the edge of the bram. A httle before its internal termination this fissure divides into two, which, by their divergence from one another, partially enclose a small group of convolutions, called the Island of Heil. Along the fissura Sylvii runs the middle cerebral artery. Immediately behind the optic commissure is situated a small dark-reddish eminence, called the tuber cinereum; from the middle of which (in this position of the brain) projects the infundibulum. This latter is, as its name denotes, a small funnel, and leading from the third ven- tricle to the pituitary gland. The infundibulum is, how- ever, not pervious, excepting at its upper part, the lower being closed by a small fold of the serous membrane of the ventricle. The pituitary body or gland (the use of which is un- known) is situated in the sella turcica of the sphenoid bone. It is bounded laterally by the cavernous sinuses, and has no communication with the nose. Its shape is Externally to the tuber cinereum, and under the edge ot the middle cerebral lobe, is seen a fissure, through which the pia mater enters the descending coruu of the lateral ventricle, as the choroid plexus.