CEREBRAL NERVES. \Jl vagus; it passes forwards, and out of the cranium, by the foramen lacerum posterius, anterior to the jugular vein ; it descends perpendicularly almost in front of the carotid artery, passing between the stylo-pharyngeus and stylo- glossus muscles, towards the root of the tongue; as it escapes from the cranium, it forms a ganglionic enlarge- ment, called the ganghon of Andersch. The branches given oiF from it have been minutely traced by Arnold {vide 'Icones Nervorum Capitis'}, and are the following: The tympanic branch from the ganglion, gives a filament to the carotid plexus, to the vidian in the hiatus Fallopii, and one to the otic ganglion. It is sometimes called Jacobson's nerve. A branch to anastomose with the portio dura. A branch to the nervus vagus and accessorius. Branches to the stylo-hyoid and digastric muscle. Pharyngeal branches to the pharyngeal plexus. TonsUlary branches. Terminal branches to the mucous membrane and follicles at the root of the tongue. 2d. The nervus vagus, par vagum, or pueumo-gastric nerve, arises just below the glosso-pharyngeus in the same fissure: it forms a flattened band, and passes out of the cranium by the foramen lacerum posterius, invested by a prolongation of dura mater, and here presents a ganglionic enlargement (its superior ganghon) ; just at its exit, it has a ganghform enlargement (its inferior ganglion), and com- municates with the hngual, the glosso-pharyngeal, and sympathetic nerves; it next hes upon the rectus capitis anticus major, descends in the neck enclosed in the carotid sheath between the carotid artery and jugular vein; enters the thorax between the subclavian artery and vein,'on the right side, giving off the right recurrent branch, which curves round the subclavian artery, and runs along the side of the trachea to the larynx ; on the left side it enters the chest parallel with the left subclavian artery, and sends off a recurrent branch, which winds round the arch of the aorta to be distributed like the recurrent of the rieht side • It then gives fi^laments to the bronchi, and passes down- wards and backwards to the oesophagus, to which it sup- plies numerous fi aments, which interlace freely together formmg the oesophageal plexus; these reunite, ^nd form a trunk on each side of the oesophagus, that on the right