SECRETION. 439 junctiva, and are carried by a triangular canal formed by a meeting of the eyelids, to the inner canthus of the eye, where they are absorbed by the jiuncta lacrymalia, and conveyed by two tubes to the lacrymal sac. From the lacryinal sac the tears pass by the nasal duct into the inferior meatus of the nose. Use of the Tears.—The tears keep the cornea moist, prevent the friction of the eyelids on the eyes, and wash away any extraneous bodies which may have fallen into the eye; they are of much use to the nose by lubricating the membrane, and thus contributing to the perfection of smelling. Secretion of Milk.—The milk is secreted in the glandular substance of the mammae. The tubuli lactiferi commence in numerous small portions of the gland, called granules. As they approach the nipple, the ducts unite into twelve or fifteen, of considerable size, which terminate on the surface of the nipple by open mouths. The milk is only for the purpose of nourishing the infant. Secretion of Saliva.—The sahva is secreted by the parotid, submaxillary, and sublingual glands, and conveyed by their ducts into their mouth. Its use seems to be, to keep the tongue and mouth moist, and thereby to assist the ruastication and deglutition of the food, and its diges- tion in the stomach; it has been supposed by some, to have the power of converting starch into dextrine or grape sugar. Secretion of Gastric Juice.—The gastric juice is supposed to be secreted partly by the extreme arteries of the villous coat of the stomach, and partly within the follicles. It dissolves those substances which are nutritious to the animal, and has always an acid reaction. Secretion of the Pancreatic /?«ce.—The pancreatic juice is secreted in the acini of the pancreas, and conveyed by numerous small ducts into the great pancreatic duct, which opens along with the ductus choledochus in the duodenum. It IS supposed to assist in chylification, by dilutino- the bile, and adding to the saline ingredients. By some it is supposed to saponify the fat and oils taken, and by others to convert starch into sugar. Secretion of Bile.~'Yhe bile is secreted in the liver by the minute branches of the vena porta; in the acini or