HYDROCELE. 589 names have been applied to a disease in which the sper- matic veins become varicose. It is more frequent on the left than on the right side, from the termination of the left spermatic vein, in the left renal, which it joins at a right angle. The part of the cord below the external abdominal ring is more subject to the disease than that above this point. It is known by the swellino- of the cord, which, when felt, resembles a bag of earth-worms. It is attended with pains in the cord, extending into the Inmbar region, and by a wasting of the testis. The testis should be suspended in a bag-truss, an d leeches and cold lotions occasionally appHed. The tying of the vein as re- commended by Sir E. Home, should never be performed. Varicocele is frequently mistaken for an inguinal hernia. Hcematocele is a term appHed to a collection of blood in the sac of the tunica vaginalis, produced by a wound of a vessel of magnitude, in the operation of tapping a hydro- cele, which pours its blood into the interior of the sac; or by a rupture of one of the vessels of the cord or scrotum from lujuiy. It is distinguished from hydrocele by the history of the case, its want of transparency, the greater density of the fluid, and greater weight of the tumour Evaporating lotions should be applied to the part, so as to cause the absorption of the efl'used blood : if these should not succeed, the tunica vaginaUs should be cut into, and the effused blood removed. An ecchymosed state of the scrotum, with great disco- loration, in which blood is extravasated in the cellular tissue of the part, is not unfrequent after operation near the scrotum, and injuries of it. The blood is generally absorbed in a few days. ^ ON HYDKOCELE. The term hydrocele, although applicable to any tumour contaimng water, in general indicates a collection of serum in the sac of the tunica vaginalis. It is a perfectfv local disease, and occurs most frequently in the Idult oJ advanced periods of life. It is'som^times caused by TJl' 1 fi™?'' »,«"^ll.y appears as an idiopathic atfection^ I^hs but af i^^'''^ '° '^""^"^ °f '''^ tunica vagi nalis , but as it increases m quantity, extends towards the external abdominal ring. Wh^n fulf; formed, the tumou?