REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. 302 round the chin to anastomose with the hranches of the inferior dental and inferior labial arteries. The facial branches of the labial artery are the fol- lowing : 1. Arteria labialis inferior runs inwards to the integuments and muscles of the lower lip, where it anastomoses with the branches of tlfe preceding, the inferior dental, and the artery of the oppo- site side. 2. Arteria coronaria inferior ascends inwards beneath the fibres of the depressor anguli oris, gains the lower lip, near the free margin of which it runs close to the mucous membrane; it sup- plies the lower lip, anastomosing with the artery of the opposite side, with the superior coronary, the inferior labial, and the inferior dental arteries. 3. Arterim masseteric^ are a few irregular branches which pass outwards to the masseter and buccinator muscles, and anastomose with the branches of the transversalis faciei artery. 4. Arteria coronaria superior runs inwards to the upper lip, where it lies near its free border and close to the mucous membrane. It supplies the upper lip, sending a few branches upwards to the schneiderian membrane of the nose, and one ascending branch, named arteria septi, runs forwards as far as the tip of the nose. It anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the inferior coronary and nasal arteries. In operating on the upper lip for hare-lip, and on the lower for the removal of cancerous growths, the coronary arteries are wounded. The haemorrhage, during the operation, may be restrained by compressing the lip between the fingers until the operation is completed, when, the edges of the wound being brought together, the bleeding will in general cease. In passing the needles through the lip, to retain the cut surfaces in apposition, they should be passed deep through its substance, close to the mucous membrane. If passed more superficially, the posterior part of the wound will gape, and the coronary arteries bleed into the mouth. The first needle should always be passed close to the free border of the lip, in order that no irregularity be left in it. As the lower lip contains a large number of glands, it is more frequently attacked with cancer than the upper. Blows on the mouth sometimes divide the lips on the inner surface, by pressure against the teeth: here a suture should be inserted, and thus the wound be closed internally. 5. Arteria lateralis nasi is a small branch distributed to the side of the nose.