THE HEABT. 231 heart is more capacious; the parietes of the left are con- siderably the thickest. The substance of the heart is formed of its muscular portion, its investing and lining membrane, and its proper vessels and nerves. The cavities of the heart are four: two at the base, called auricles; and two at the apex, named ventricles. When the pericardium is opened and the heart is in situ, the right side of the heart principally is brought into view; the parts seen are the right auricle and ventricle, the termination of the venae cavae, the appendix of the left auricle, the part of the left ventricle forming the apex of the heart, the root of the pulmonary artery and aorta, and the proper vessels of the heart, ramifying on its surface. • The riffht auricle of the heart may be divided into the large smooth portion, named simcs venosus, and the auricula propria. The openings into the sinus are, one from the superior vena cava, one from the inferior vena cava, one from the coronary vein, and one into the right ventricle; and, according to some anatomists, little venous openings^ termed foramina Thesbesii. In the septum between this and the left auricle there is a depression named fossa ovalis, corresponding with the previous situation of the forameri ovale, surrounded by the annulus fosses ovalis. There is frequently a slight valvular opening in the substance filling up the fossa. ° A projection may be observed between the openings of the vense cavae, named tuberculum Loweri. From the upper margin of the inferior cava, a fold extends towards the annulus fosscE ovalis, named the Eustachian valve less evident in the adult, but in the foetus supposed to direct the blood from the inferior cava into the left auricle • between this and the auriculo-ventricular opening is the orifice of the coronary vein, with a valve partly covering it Ihe auricula propria ov appendix auricula', communicates with the smus venosus by a circular opening. It contains fleshy pillars named muscuU pectinati, whfch also extend m a thinner form over the anterior and upper surface of he sinus venosus. Some have supposed Sfat the u 1i these fibres IS to commingle the blood of the two cav^ which IS of a very different quality; that of the uppS