631 DISEASES OF BONES. The third stage of Pott's disease is that in M'hich the abscess has burst or has been opened, and a well-marked hectic fever sets in, which soon brings on the fatal catas- troplie. Patients labouring under disease of the spine sometimes die from inflammation of one of the large serous membranes.* When caries of the vertebrae affects the cervical or lumbar regions, there will be some modifi- cation of the disease dependent on the difference in the relative anatomy of the parts and the regions supplied with nerves from the spinal marrow. A cure is sometimes effected in caries of the spine, more frequently in the first than in the second, and in this oftener than in the third stage. It takes place by the ulcerative process ceasing, when anchylosis of the bodies of the vertebrae ensues. _ In this case, ossific matter is thrown out along the sides and front of the spine in the affected region, which ties together the remains of the diseased vertebrae, and serves as buttresses for the support of the spinal column. This provision is still further strengthened by a conden- sation of the ligaments of the spine. The spinal marrow is preserved in its functions by an enlargement of the spinal canal. Caries of the vertebrae sometimes com- mences in the intervertebral substance, whence it ex- tends to the spongy tissue of the bones. The disease has been also induced by inflammation attacking the psoas muscle, and thence extending to the spine. The interver- tebral substance is removed equally with the bodies of the vertebrae. Scrofulous disease of the ends of the bones will be more properly considered under the head of diseases of the jomts. A caries of the long or flat bones sometimes occurs, as in the bones of the head, the tibia, &c This IS usually limited to the outer table of the bone and presents an ulcerated surface, at the bottom of which IS the diseased bone The exfoliation of the diseased part should be expedited as much as is consistent with fuZf l when this has been accom- phshed, the granulations from the healthy portions of n,,n/r iilll'rr'''''''^'''''r'*"°'=' ^^^^ ^ I'l'-ge accumulation of matter will sometimes take place in the disease without inducing any severe constitutional affection. iiuaumg any