11 DORSAL VERTEBRjE. The spinal canal is nearly circular, and rather smaller than in the cervical and lumbar regions. The dorsal vertebrae, which are most distinguished from the rest, are the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth. The first has the body longest transversely, and has an entire articulating surface on each side for the head of the first rib, and a half surface for the head of the second. Its spinous process is very long, and projects almost horizontally backwards. The tenth, eleventh, and twelfth vertebra;, have frequently a single articulating surface on each side of the body for the head of a rib; and no surface on the transverse process for the reception of the tubercle. The tenth sometimes partakes of the character of the vertebras just above it. The transverse processes are short. The twelfth vertebra may be always distinguished by the inferior articulating processes, which have a direction corresponding with the lumbar, viz. forwards and outwards. The general distinctive characters of the lumbar vertebrae are these: The body has a great transverse extent. Its vertical height is greatest anteriorly. The transverse processes are long and slender, directed outwards, the third and fourth being the longest. The superior articulating processes are concave, wide apart, looking backwards and inwards; the lower ones convex, directed forwards and outwards. The laminfe are short and thick, somewhat overlapping each other. The spinous process is horizontal, broad, and flat. The spinal canal is triangular, as in the cervical region. The last lumbar vertebra is thus distinguished : The body is much deeper anteriorly than posteriorly, so as to rest upon the incUned plane of the sacrum. ■The transverse processes are short and thick. The inferior articulating processes are shghtly convex, looking forwards and outwards. The spinous process is short and rounded. The structure of the bodies of the vertebrae is principally- spongy, with a thin layer of compact osseous tissue, externally: they are hence very liable to caries, producing Pott's disease of the spine. The processes are composed chiefly of compact tissue. They are developed in general from three ossific centres, one for the body and two for the processes ; and afterwards five other parts are superadded, named epiphyses; two for