585 DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. thrown to the right side, and vice versa: if both lobes be affected, the canal is narrowed frona side to side, whilst it is increased in the vertical direction, so as to resemble a mere chink, at the same time that the canal is also in- creased in length; the rectum is also pressed upon, so that there is usually some difficulty in passing the fseces, and these are often indented by the enlarged gland. The treatment of this enlargement of the prostate gland consists in the occasional introduction of the catheter, and the removal of the irritability of the bladder, by means of suppositories or anodyne enemata. The catheter selected for the purpose should be of the gum-elastic kind, large and longer than those commonly in use, and provided with a stilet. As soon as the point of the instrument has passed down to the enlarged gland, by withdrawing the stilet the point of the catheter will be raised, and by pushing it gently forwards it will pass into the bladder; the same object may be obtained by pressing in perineo, or by the introduction of the finger per anum. The surgeon should bear in mind that, although some urine may escape, retention may still be present, the bladder relieving itself only of the superabundant portion of the fluid, which flows off without much eflbrt on the part of the patient, the bladder being often in a paralysed state. In the advanced stages of the disease a quantity of viscid, ropy mucus is passed from the urethra; this is secreted in the prostate gland, as weU as from the mucous membrane of the bladder. By the treatment mentioned reUef will be, in general, obtained, although a cure can scarcely be expected. The middle lobe of the prostate gland sometimes becomes enlarged It then presses upwards, towards the neck of the bladder, and here forms a valvular tumour, generaUv ot a pyramidal shape, which obstructs the flow of urine until this fluid has collected in such quantities as to nass over the sides or fundus of the swelling; hence a stiUiddimn attends this affection. The freatnent is thetm as that directed tor enlargement of the lateral lobes. The enlarged middle lobe frequently becomes incrusted with calcareous ma ter ; and hence, as also from the symptoms ha. induced the idea of a calculus being in the^avity of the bladder. One very remarkable symptom present in 25 ยง