REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY, 310 anterior and rather upper margin of the gland, passes forwards across the raasscter muscle, about an inch below the zygoma, and in a line drawn from the lobe of the ear, to midway between the angle of the mouth and the root of the nose, accompanied by the transversalis faciei artery and nerves, both whicb lie above it. Having arrived at the anterior edge of the masseter muscle, the mucous or lining membrane of the duct dips inwards, perforates the buccinator muscle, and opens by a contracted orifice into the mouth, on the inner surface of the cheek, opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw, and about half an inch beneath the reflexion of the mucous membrane of the cheek on the gums. The fibrous coat of the duct, on the contrary, does not perforate the buccinator muscle, but expands and is lost on the outer surface of that muscle. Steno's duct is composed of two coats, an external fibrous, and an internal lining mucous membrane. The fibrous coat is remarkably strong, and forms the greater portion of the calibre of the duct, its cavity being com- paratively small. The hning mucous membrane is con- tinuous with that of the mouth. Between the zygoma and Steno's duct, a small portion of the gland, somewhat detached from the rest, lies on the masseter muscle. It is called the socia parotidis. A small duct proceeds from it, which joins the parotid duct, or opens by a distinct aperture into the mouth. Steno's duct is sometimes cut into by accident, or in performing operations on the face; wounds of it are exceedingly difficult of cure, as the saliva flows through the opening, and thus forms a fistula, from which the saUva escapes to the detriment of the digestive function. If the wound should not have been united by the first intention, the introduction of a small seton into the mouth, so as to conduct the fluid in that direction, until the external wound shall have closed, aifords the most probable chance of success. The parotid gland is supplied with blood by brancuea from the external carotid and temporal arteries. Its veins return the blood to the external jugular. It is hable to inflammation and suppuration, as also to the more malig- nant diseases. Its removal for the latter aff'ectiou has been accomplished in two or three instances. On cutting cautiously through the substance of this gland, or rather by scraping through it from behind for-