601 FRACTURES. cerous diathesis. When the scirrhus degenerates into open cancer, all the symptoms become aggravated, a communication is frequently established between the rec- tum and bladder in the male, between the intestine and the vagina in the female, and thus the faeces and urine are discharged together. The patient soon sinks beneath the weight of his sufferings. But little can be done towards the removal of a scirrhus of the rectum; much, however, may be effected, in relieving the patient's suffering, by means of opiates. The use of the bougie is nearly impracticable, from the irritation it produces, especially in the ulcerated state of the disease. As a scirrhus of the rectum almost mvanably commences in the lower part of the intestine, immediately within the anus, some have suggested its ex- tirpation. We question if the success of the operation will ever be such as to justify its adoption. Polypous tumours occasionally form in the rectum in the young subject. They are removed by ligature without dif- ficulty. ON ACCIDENTS AND DISEASES OF THE BONES AND JOINTS. ON FRACTURES. Fracture is a solution of continuity in one or more bones, produced by some force or violence extraneous to the bone itself. Fractures are divided into simple, com- pound, comminuted, and complicated. Simple fractures are those in which the fracture does not communicate with the external air. They are by far the most frequent in civU life, and in general affect the shaft of the long bones, this part being, from the mechanism ot the osseous structure, more exposed to the effects of shocks, or other violence, than the extremities of the bones and being composed chiefly of the compact tissue. S flat bones, as of the head and pelvis, are also sometimes fractured and generally by direct violence. SluscX exertion frequently causes fracture, as of the pa eUa "le cranon process, and os calcis. pateiia, oJe- The general symptoms of a fracture are deformity of the hmb, consisting of swelling, caused either by tTe Lerlap-