THE INTESTINES. 2A9 wall of the bladder, from which it is separated by some convolutions of the small intestines; at its adherent por- tion, lower down, it is in relation with the bas-fond, or lower fundus of the bladder, where the trigone is situated, and which thus rests upon the rectum. The peritoneum sometimes descends so as to cover this part, and may even extend as far as the prostate gland, forming a cul-de-sac lower than usual; further down the rectum is in close con- tact with- the prostate gland, and still further has some relation to the urethra, but is separated from it by a trian- gular space, the base of which is forwards and downwards, the apex upwards and backwards. in the female, the free portion of the rectum is in appo- sition with the broad ligament. Fallopian tube, and ovary of the left side, the uterus, and the vagina. Between these parts and the rectum there is a cul-de-sac of peri- toneum, as in the male between the rectum and bladder; in this part, when the rectum and uterus are comparatively empty, tiiere are some convolutions of the small intestines. In the lower part, the rectum is in immediate connection with the vagina, to which it is very adherent; but as it descends still lower it quits the vagina as it turns back- wards, and leaves a perineal triangular space, analogous to that in the male. On its sides, the free part of the rectum has convolutions of the small intestines, but lower down a large quantity of loose cellular tissue containing a con- siderable quantity of fat. The inside of the rectum presents a number of longitu- dinal folds, like those of the oesophagus ; and these are intersected by a few semicircular ones. The longitudinal folds have been named the pillars of the rectum. The csecum and part of the colon are supplied with blood from the superior mesenteric artery; the rest of the colon and upper part of the rectum, from the inferior mesenteric; the rest of the rectum receives blood from the internal ihac and iuternal pudic artery. The rectum is one of the most vascular parts of the intestinal canal. Ihe veins of the intestines terminate in the vena port<e, but some of the hoeraorrhoidal veins pass into the internal iliac veins. pathetir^''^^ ""'^ supplied chiefly from the great sym- 11ยง