UEGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. 318 the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and a portion of the parotid gland. It is still further covered by the digastric muscle, the lingual and facial nerves. The internal carotid artery rests first on the rectus capitis anticus major muscle, then on the par vagum and the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. The internal jugular vein, near the base of the skull, lies almost directly behind it, but as the vein descends it also gets external to it. The lingual nerve, as it escapes from the anterior condyloid foramen, hes posterior and internal to the internal carotid artery, but soon, passing between it and the internal jugular vein, or between the branches of the latter, gets external to it, and finally crosses both carotid arteries a short distance below the digastric muscle. The spinal accessory nerve, as it descends, passes generally behind the internal jugular vein, and thus has little or no relation to the internal carotid artery. To the inner side of the internal carotid artery lies the pharynx, separated from it by a small interval inferiorly, but more closely connected above. The tonsil is also internal and somewhat anterior to it. In inflammation of these parts, but more particularly of the tonsils, this relation to the internal carotid artery is of much importance. Should abscess form in the gland, the matter should be dis- charged by directing the instrument backwards and inwards; on no account should it be turned outwards, as the artery is thereby much endangered. It is true that, in the healthy state, the tonsil is not in close contact with the internal carotid artery, but it is so in the inflamed state; for when the gland inflames it enlarges inwards towards the fauces and opposite tonsil, and also presses outwards so as almost to touch the artery. Whilst passing through the petrous bone, the internal carotid artery takes a curved course also; it first ascends, then passes forwards and inwards, and then ascends again, passing at the same time a little inwards; in this course it forms a curve resembUng an italic S. As it enters the foramen caroticum it lies directly behind the Eustachian tube, and then lies immediately in front of the cavity of the tympanum, being separated from it by a thin plate of bone, not unfrequently absorbed, particularly in advanced life; as the artery runs forward it lies beneath and to the outer side of the cochlea, and below the Eustachian tube; it soon after gets above this, and, at the foramen lacerum