REGIONAL AND SUllGTCAL ANATOMY. 402 external saphenous nerves. A few branches from the posterior tibial nerve accompany the anterior tibial artery- through the opening in the interosseous membrane. The anterior tibial artery, besides giving branches to the surrounding muscles, sends off the following branches: 1. Arteria recurrens proceeds from the anterior tibial artery, shortly after it has passed through the opening in the interosseous membrane; upwards and outwards through the fibres of the tibialis anticus muscle, sends branches to the integuments, and terminates in the anastomosis in front of the patella formed by it, the articular arteries, and the anastomotica magna. 2 and 3. Arteria malleolares, externa et interna, arise from opposite sides of the anterior tibial artery a little above the ankle-joint, descend to the malleolus on each side, and are lost in the integuments, in which they anastomose with each other, and with branches from the posterior tibial and peroneal arteries. Arteria tarsi arises from the anterior tibial artery, as it crosses the os naviculare, proceeds outwards, and is lost in the integuments and muscles on the outer side of the foot. Arteria metatarsi arises a little in front of the pre- ceding, runs outwards across the heads of the metatarsal bones, supplies the articulations, and sends branches for- wards, which supply the three external interosseous spaces and muscles, and anastomose with the digital branches of the plantar arteries. The terminating branches of the anterior tibial artery are the two following: Arteria pollicisTp&sses forwards to the cleft between the first and second toes, and divides into two branches, one of which, the internal, supplies the integuments on the inner side of the great toe; the other, the external, supphes the integuments on the opposed surfaces of the first and second toes. Arteria communicans vel profunda passes directly through the first interosseous space, and joins the termiuatmg branch of the external plantar artery. From the superficial course of the anterior tibial artery on the dorsum of the foot, it is here much exposed, and is frequently wounded; the general rule as to wounded arteries applies liere. The anterior tibial artery may require to be tied in the leg for