196 ANATOMY. called cilia or eyelaslies. Near tlie internal commissure there are angular projections, each presenting a little orifice, named punctum lachrymale. These are surrounded by a fibro-cartilaginous ring, which serves to keep them patulous, and to allow the tears to pass from the surface of the eye into the lacrymal sac. The tarsal fihro-cartilages differ in the two hds. The upper one is, on its superior margin, semilunar in form, with its convex thin edge uppermost; it is kept in its place by palpebral ligaments, connecting it internally with the tendo-oculi, superiorly and externally with the periosteum of the orbit. The lower fibro-cartilage is smaller, and of nearly equal thickness in its whole length, and is attached at its extremities in a similar manner to the upper one. The meibomian glands, or sebaceous folhcles, are more numerous in the upper than under eyelid; in the upper one there are about forty; in the lower one, half the num- ber. They are arranged in vertical rows, and open by a smaller number of tubes at the edges of the lids. The sebaceous matter secreted by them prevents the eyehds from sticking together, and in some measure prevents the tears from escaping over the edges of the lids. Near the internal canthus, internal to the Uds, are seen two small bodies, the plica semilunaris and the caruncula lacrymalis. The plica, or valvula semilunaris, is a fold of mucous membrane of a triangular form; its base is concave towards the centre of the eye, its apex pointing to the inner canthus; it appears like a third eyelid, or rudiment of the membrana nictitans in the owl, eagle, &c. The caruncula lachrymalis is a small fleshy body of a red colour, composed chiefly of mucous follicles, sometinaes studded with small hairs on its surface. The lacrymal apparatus consists of the lacrymal gland and tubes, the puncta and lacrymal canals, the lacrymal sac, and nasal duct. The lacrymal gland is situated at the upper and outer part of the orbit, resting against the lacrymal fossa of the frontal bone: it is from half an inch to an inch long, and about half an inch broad, composed of two lobes, consisting of a number of lobules Hke a conglomerate gland ; from it, seven or eight little tubes proceed, wbich open on the