367 ARTERIA ILIACA INTERNA. to be carefully divirled, and the peritoneum drawn upwards and inwards towards the umbilicus. The common iliac artery may be now easily felt, or even seen, when the aneurism needle should be passed from within outwards, except in tying the artery on the right side, in the lower part of its course, when the contrary direction is to be preferred, and the vessel secured. Arteria iliaca interna vel hypogastrica proceeds from the bifurcation of the common iliac artery downwards and backwards, in the posterior part of the pelvis, in front of the sacro-iliac symphysis, as far as the upper part of the great sciatic notch, where it terminates by dividing into two or three large branches. In this course, the internal iliac artery has to its inner side and posteriorly the origins of the pyriformis muscle and the anterior sacral nerves; behind it is the lumbo-sacral nerve, and in front of it the peritoneum. The internal iliac vein and the branches which are about to form it generally cover the internal iliac artery so as to obscure it from view. In the adult, this artery is somewhat smaller than the external Hiac, but in the foetus it appears as the continuation of the common iliac, both as to size and direction; at this period of life, it returns the blood from the fcetus to the placenta of the mother; its principal branch then forms the umbilical artery, which ascends along the lateral surface of the bladder, behind the rectus muscle to the umbilicus, where it passes out and forms, with the artery of the opposite side and the umbilical vein, the umbilical chord. After birth, when the chord is tied the blood ceases to circulate in the umbilical artery, which becomes obliterated from the umbilicus to the bladder; it thus diminishes in size, and forms one of the vesical arteries in the adult. The internal iliac artery may be tied for aneurism of one of its principal branches. This operation may he performed, like that for tying the common iliac artery, the incisions being made some- what lower down. In securing these vessels the ureter is not endangered, as it follows the peritoneum when this membrane is raised out of the iliac fossa, We consider it is better to secure he common d,ac artery, than resort to the operation of tyini? the internal ihac, as tins is a much more difficult operation, and not so likely to succeed, from the number of important parts disturbed, and the shortness of the arterial trunk. The branches of the internal iliac artery are divided into