THORACIC VISCEKA. 227 triangularis sterni muscle. Its base is formed by the sternum, its sides by the pleura of each side, and its apex by their approximation. It is more on the left than the right side of the chest, on account of the manner in which the left pleura is reflected upon the pericardium, and the right lung advancing nearer to the mesial line of the sternum than the left one. The thijmus gland, scarcely perceptible in the adult, is of a considerable size in the foetus and young child ; it is first observable about the fourth month of fcetal life, in- creasing till birth; after which it remains stationary, or increases shghtly till about the end of the first or second year, when it begins gradually to decrease. It consists of two elongated lobes, placed side by side in the anterior medias- tinum. The structure of this body is somewhat like that of the thyroid; within it a cellular structure is observed, with sometimes a quantity of thick fluid like chyle, and, according to some anatomists, the numerous cells or vesicles, all communicate with a tube running longi- tudinally in this body. It is very vascular, but the use of It IS unknown. Its supply of blood is from the internal mammary artery. T^hQ posterior mediastinum extends from the third to the tenth or eleventh dorsal vetebra. It contains the mo- phagus, aorta descendens, the thoracic duct, the par vagum ot each side, the vena aztjgos, some lymphatic glands and vessels, and the splanchnic nerves; but by some these nerves are considered to be a little beyond the boundaries ot this mediastinum. The (esophagus, inclined to the left side of the spine at the lower part, is most anterior, and is accompanied bvthe par vagum ; the right par vagum is rather behind, but the on thVw^V behind it is the aorta, a little on the left side of the spine. On the right is the vena azygos, and between these the thoracic duct Ihe Lungs are conical bodies, occupying the sides of the chest, and on each side of the mediisfinn Ti firmly attached to the heart by mea„ of tlJ^'^ vessels, and to the trachea by tl JbrS . k "r fleS ot the pleura, from the dianlino-m «p ii i ^i-nexion side, is named bylm luhnomZ I ^^fr latum pulmonum.) ^ (%«men^«»i