642 STJHGERY. Symptoms .-—The limb is from one inch to two inches shorter than its fellow; the thigh is a Uttle bent and car- ried mwards ; the knee incHnes more forwards and inwards than the opposite one, which it crosses partially ; the leg and thigh are turned inwards, and the foot points in this direction, the toes resting against or upon the tarsus of the other foot; the trochanter major is raised, turned forwards, and approximates the anterior superior spine of the ilium, but is less prominent than natural; the head of the femur is turned backwards, and may be distinguished by moving the limb; the foot can be turned inwards, but not out- wards, without much pain; the thigh is with difficulty separated from the opposite one, but may be slightly bent across it with facility. A few rare cases of dislocation on the dorsum of the ilium are recorded, in which the head of the femur was turned forwards and the trochanter backwards. In such the limb is rotated outwards. Reduction.—Place the patient in the horizontal position, on the side opposite the injured limb, upon a table firmly fixed, or a large four-post bedstead. A sheet, folded longitudinally, is first to be placed under the perinaeum, avoiding the pudenda; one end being carried behind the patient, the other before him; the two ends are to be fas- tened to one of the legs of the table or posts of the bed. Thus, the pelvis will be fixed, so as to allow the necessary extension of the thigh-bone. A wetted cloth is now passed round the thigh, directly above the knee, and over this the leather strap appUed, to which the pulley is to be fixed. The extension is now to be made in the line of the limb, that is, brought across the other thigh, a little above the knee. As soon as the head of the bone has been brought on a level with the acetabulum, by the assistants, who are making the extension, the surgeon is to force it mto the cavity of the acetabulum, by pressing on the great tro- chanter, or by rotating the knee gently outwards. ^Mien there is difficulty in bringing the head of the bone over the edge of the acetabulum. Sir A. Cooper raises it by placing his arm under the joint. The disappearance of aU the symptoms, and the noise made by the head of the bone, when it slips into the acetabulum, denote that the reduction is effected. This noise, however, is not always made, when