THE KIDNEYS. 257 The kidneys are supplied with blood by the renal arteries, which divide into five or six branches before entering into their substance. These branches pass be- tween the medullary cones, and terminate in capillary rami- fications around the commencement of the urinary tubes. The right renal artery is the longest, having to pass behind the vena cava to its distribution. The renal veins, also called emulgent, empty their con- tents into the inferior vena cava; the left one is longest, having to cross over the aorta. It generally receives the left spermatic vein. The nerves are from the renal plexus of the sympathetic. The lytnphatics are numerous, and pass into the thoracic duct. The supra-renal capsules are triangular-shaped bodies, resting on the upper extremity of each kidney. They are convex above and concave below; yellowish on the" out- side, browner inside, and generally have a cavity cou- taming fluid. They are large in the foetus, and until the thu-d month of fcetal life exceed the kidney in size, but are diminished at birth, and gradually decrease in size with age. They have sometimes an artery direct from the aorta; their veins terminate in the vena cava on the right, and in the emulgent vein of the left side. The use of them is not known. The ureters, continuous tubes from the pelvis of the kidney, are about eighteen inches in length. They descend behind the peritoneum, over the psose muscles and large I lac vessels, enter the pelvis, and perforate the coats of the bladder, along which they run for about an inch and terminate in the bladder, about an inch from its cervix torming the posterior angles of the trigonum vesica. 1 hey are of about the size of a goose-quill, have two coats, the outer one fibrous, and the inner a thin hnins tTieWaddT' ''''' "^""^^^^^ P'^'-t is between the coats of In the male, they are crossed at their upper part bv tbp spermatic vessels ; lower down they croL' the' u ,Mica a t ry,or the cord which is left by it, the obturator ves e s and vas deferens. The latter hooks round the ureter to reach thevesicula seminalis of its correspondu g s de '