DESCllIPTION OF THE TISSUES. 423 It is formed by nucleated cells, bound together by inter- cellular substance. The deeper ones are more or less spherical in form, but the superficial are in general flattened, and finally become desquamated. There are several forms of epithelium, the following being the principal: 1. The scaly, or lamellar epithelium, is found on the free surface of serous membranes, and on the inner surface of the heart, blood-vessels, and absorbents, as a single layer; but on the skin, conjunctiva, and great mucous passages, it exists in the form of many strata. This variety appears to be composed of flattened cells, each containing a nucleus and generally some corpuscles. 2. Columnar epithelium is composed, as its name signifies, of a number of oblong perpendicular cells, in general broader at their superficial extremity than at their base. The columnar epithelium is formed by single nucleated cells, bound together by intercellular substance, and is found principally in the stomach, intestines, and urethra. It is also found in the gall bladder. 3. Spheroidal epithelium (as described by Mr. Bowman) appears to be a transition between the two former varieties. Its cells are more or less spherical or cubic in form. It may be found lining the excretory ducts of most glands. 4. Ciliated epithelium is that peculiar variety in which small vibratile processes called cilia (from their resemblance to small eyelashes in form) stud the entire surface of the membrane which it covers. The ciliated epithelium is formed by nucleated cells, resembling those of columnar epithelium, from the extremity of each of which small cilia project. The constant motion existing in these bodies causes the gradual, but certain passage of fluids along its surface. The motions of the cilia continue more or less actively during the whole of hfe, and exist for some time even after death. The length-of the cilia varies con- siderably with the nature of the parts which they cover. The fluids pass, however, always in one direction. Ciliated epithelium is found in the air-passages almost throughout, and in the Eustachian tube. It is also found in the uterus and Fallopian tubes, as far as the fimbriated extremities, and in the membranes lining the ventricles of the brain.