INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 317 anastomose with the branches of the labial and transversalis faciei arteries. Arteria palatina descendens descends in the posterior palatine canal, and divides into two branches, the smaller of which passes through a foramen in the pterygoid process of the palate bone, and IS lost in the velum; the larger descends in the canal to the palate, accompanied by nerves from Meckel's ganglion, turns forward, runs close to the inner surface of the alveolar processes of the superior maxiUa, supplies the hard palate, and sends a branch through the foramen incisivum to the nose. The vidian branch is very small, runs backwards with the vidian nerve, and distributes minute branches to the Eustachian tube pharynx, and tympanum. ' A pterygo-palatine is described by some as passing backwards through the pterygo-palatine foramen to supply the upper part of the pharynx, Eustachian tube, and sphenoidal cells. Artena nasalis, or spheno-palatine, passes through the spheno- pa atine foramen into the nasal cavity, opposite the posterior extremity of the superior meatus, and gives off branches to the mucous membrane, the ethmoidal cells, and one named ar^ma- sq>ti, which runs forwards, and terminates in a branch which descends in the anterior palatine foramen, to join a branch of the palatme artery. ARTERIA CAROTIS INTERNA VEL PROFUNDA. This vessel, so named from supplying tlie interior of tlie cranium, lies posterior and external to the external carotid at Its origin, and is much larger in the foetus and the young subject, but in the adult, the two vessels are nearly of equal size. From the bifurcation of the common carotid, the internal carotid ascends in front of the transverse pro- cesses of the three upper cervical vertebrae to the base of the cranium, where it enters the foramen caroticum, then traverses the carotic canal, runs above the foramen lace- rum medium and ascending by the side of the sella turcica, and passing through the cavernous sinus, it arrives opposite the inner extremity of the fissure of Sylvius, and terminat s by dividing into the anterior and middle cerebral and posterior communicating arteries. In the neck the internal carotid is very tortuous, par- ticularly at the early periods of life. It first bends ont wards, then ascends forwards and inwards and ear the temporal bone forms one or more curves iireS in process, the