ANATOMY. 146 numerous minute vessels ramifying through it. It is the seat of all the nervous manifestations, such as sensation, motion, volition, the powers of the mind, memory, &c., and entirely surrounds the extremities of the tibriUse of the medullary substance: it covers the whole brain with a layer, varying from to i of an inch in thickness. Its surface is closely adherent to the pia mater by cellular tissue and vessels, to which Ruysch has given the name of Tomentum Cerebri. 11 i • u * The yellow substance, which, as well as the black, is but a modification of the grey, may be seen in the lower part of the posterior cerebral lobes and m the cerebellum. The black substance is seen, of a semilunar form, on cutting across the crura cerebri, and is here called the locus niger. It is also seen in the tuber cinereum and infundibulum. THE BRAIN. The Brain is divided, for the purposes of description, into the cerebrum, cerebellum, cerebral protuberance, (or pons varolii,) and medulla oblongata. The cerebrum is nearly eight times the size of the cerebellum, whilst this latter is about eight times as large as the cerebral pro- tuberance. , , ^, , -^^ The Cerebrum, into which are prolonged the anterior piUars of the spinal cord, of which, indeed, it may be con- sidered the terminal expansion, occupies the upper and principal portion of the cranium. It is divided above by the falx major, below by the great longitudinal fissure into two lateral divisions, called hemispheres and each ot these is subdivided inferiorly into three lobes, the anterior middle, and posterior; the two former are separated by a distinct deep impression, called the fissura Sylvu; but between the middle and posterior there is no distmct hue of demarcation. , . The anterior lobes of the cerebrum rest on the orbitar plates of the frontal bone, the lesser wings of the sphenoid, and the cribriform plate of the ethmoid. The middle lobe rests upon the greater wings ot tne snhenoid, and the petrosal portion of the temporal bone, which conjointly form the middle fossa of the cranmm The posterior lobe rests on the tentorium. On tlie sur-