325 THE PHARYNX. la the quiescent state, the pharynx is closed by the approximation of its anterior and posterior walls, except superiorly, where it is capable of but little alteration, in consequence of its fixed bony attachments. When, how- ever, the food is about to enter its cavity, it becomes dilated from before backwards, by the larynx being drawn upwards and forwards beneath the tongue, and from side to side by the stylo-pharyngeus and palato-pharyngeus muscles; the food now drops into its cavity, thus formed to receive it, and immediately the constrictors contract from above downwards, and force it into the cesophagas. The stylo-pharyngei are the muscles principally employed in increasing the transverse diameter of the pharynx. As the pharynx is most contracted at its lower parts, foreign bodies are most likely to be stopped in this situation. Should the body not be speedily removed suffocation will be the consequence, pro- duced by a spasmodic contraction of the constrictor muscles of the larynx, between which and the pharynx a powerful sympathy exists. In such cases, the surgeon should instantly pass his fingers into the mouth of the patient, and thus endeavour to extract the foreign body; if this should fail, the probang is to be passed downwards, and thus the substance be dislodged. Passing the probang is a simple operation: introduce the two forefingers of the left hand into the patient's mouth, so as to depress the root of the tongue, and guide the instrument; now pass the probang, pushing it backwards, until it strikes against the posterior wall of the pharynx, and push the instrument downwards and back- wards; by these means it will be forced to proceed downwards and descend into the pharynx. In passing the probang the tongue should not be drawn forwards, for by so doing the epiglottis is raised, and the glottis or upper opening of the larynx is left unpro- tected, and the instrument may thus pass into "the larynx. The same directions will serve to guide the practitioner in the intro- duction of the tube of the stomach-pump. Elastic tubes are also passed into the stomach through the pharynx, in cases of wounds . of the larynx, in attempts at suicide, or in diseases of this part, where deglutition cannot be performed without imminent risk to the patient. In these instances it is preferred by some to pass the instrument through the nares, as they thus cause less disturbance to the patient. When the pharynx is opened from behind, several openings and other important parts forming its anterior boundaries are brought into view. We shaU examine them from above downwards. The posterior nares are situated immediately above the velum J they are of an oval shape, or rather quadrilateral,