INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 321 plate, and are lost in the mucous membrane of the ethmoid cells and nose. 7 and 8. Arterice palpebraks, superior and inferior, pass forwards from the orbit, the superior one above, the inferior one below the tendon of the orbicularis muscle, to the supply of the upper and lower hds, the cai-uncula lacrymalis and lacrymal sac. 9. Arteria nasalis escapes from the orbit between the pulley of the superior oblique muscle and the tendon of the orbicularis palpe- brarum to the side of the nose, on which it is lost. 10. Arteria frontalis is the last terminating branch of the ophthal- mic artery; it escapes from the orbit with the preceding, but tu ns upwards to the supply of the occipito-frontalis and cC gator supercilu muscles and integuments of the forehead. Shortly after the origin of the ophthalmic artery, the internal carotid divides into its terminating branches I. Ramus communicans posterior is in general the first lltt^r^T' 1 ''^f^^ terminating branches; it runs backwards and inwards for about an inch between the arachnoid inembrane and the pia mater, and to the outer side of the infundibulum and corpora albicantia and uni es with the posterior cerebral artery, thus com-' p etmg the circle of Wilhs laterally. Some sil b LXs proceed from this artery to the surrounding pia mater. 2 Arteria cerebri anterior ascends forwards and in- wards between the optic and olfactory nerves, above the former, and below the latter, and arrives at the fissure which separates the anterior lobes of the brain • it here approaches its fellow of the opposite side, and b comes united with It either by a meeting of the two trS o by means of a transverse branch, named the anterior communicating artery. The trunks again proceed for wards along the under surface of the corpus callosum hence named the arteries of the corpus canosum wi^rJ round Its anterior extremity, then run bacl IrX' T Its upper surface, and soon divide eaTin o tto btct".^ one of which continues along the corpus calTosum tn t?'" posterior extremity, where it is In.t in fi to the of the lateral herJlis^he e f the b am • hVT '"'"'^'^ off directly from the corpus cal um on tff^'r hemisphere, in which it is lost ^''^^''^^ ..ra, outwards and baokwarrtt'o' tt'C^Tf 14 §