492 STJllGEKY. occasionally after fever; here the sulph. of quinine should be exhibited. i v • • When the cornea has been perforated the ms may protrude and form a morbid growth, known by the name of staphyloma racemosum. ON CATAEACT, Cataract is an opaque state of the lens, or its capmle, or both, whereby the rays of light are prevented from reaching the bottom of the eye. Cataract may be caused by injury or by inflammation, extending from other parts of the eye, but more commonly appears as an idiopathic affection. It is more frequently met with m advanced lite than in young persons; there is, however, a form ot tbe disease which exists even at birth, hence named congenital cataract. The first symptoms of the disease are usuaUy a number of dark specks, musccB volitantes, floating in view, and a generally impaired state of vision. As the disease advances, vision becomes more imperfect untd at lengtti the patient can see only in dim light, when the pupil be- coming dilated, the rays of hght pass beyond the opaque portion of the lens, the opacity commencmg in general in its centre. On examining the eye, the opaque lens appears behind the pupil, and thus points out the disease. Len- ticular cataract is divided into the hard, soft and/ui^Z. Hard cataract is usually small, and of a brown or amber colour, and occurs in advanced life. Vision from the of the cataract, is more perfect than m the other form . Soft cataract is of the consistence of cheese; it is large, reeularly opaque, and of a whitish colour. S JcaLact is of a milky white colour; is large and intermixed with dark specks, which change heir pla e in the fluid, according to the motions of the patient. Vision ''W^rL forms, from the size of the. cataract, which obhterates the posterior chamber, the ms is pro- truded forwards, and its motions interfered witli. Capsular or membranous cataract. This form can be only distinguished as a distinct disease ^vhen the posterior cart of the capsule of the lens alone is affected, ine Laque substance appears then at a distance from the pupil, and of a concave shape.