498 SURGEttY. and placing them between the teeth and the cheek, opposite the fistula, thus kept the integuments tense, and the gums from being injured. He then introduced a small hydrocele trocar with its eanula, just before the opening of the posterior part of the duct, and pushed it through the cheek, in a direction a little inclined forwards. The trocar being withdrawn, a thread, with a seton, attached, was drawn from the mouth, through the canula, which was then removed; the thread being allowed to remain out of the external wound, and fixed by adhesive plaster, so as to secure the seton in its inner part. In the course of a few weeks, the ex- ternal wound being nearly closed, the seton was withdrawn, and thus a free canal was formed for the discharge of the saliva mto the mouth. DISEASES or THE NOSE AND NASAL CAVITY. Lipoma of the nose—This is a chronic enlargement ot the integuments of the nose, and subjacent cellular sub- stance, which frequently attains a large size, presenting a cauliflower appearance, and great deformity. The tu- mours should be cut away in such a manner as not to injure the cartilages of the nose, and the operation may require to be repeated every three or four years, as in the case of a patient of the late Mr. Liston. The principal diseases to which the nasal cavity is subject are polypous and other tumours, and epistaxis. Polypi of the nose appear in general in adult or ad- vanced life. They have been divided by Mr. Pott into the benign and malignant. Mr. Bell considers that all polypi wiU, in the course of time, become mahgnaut. Sir A. Cooper has divided them into the gelatinous, hydatid, fungoid, and carcinomatous, of which the first two may be considered as benign, the last two as maUgnant. Ut these the gelatinous is the most frequent. . ^, The gelatinous polypi almost invariably grow from the outer wall of the nasal cavity, from one of the spongy bones, most frequently the middle. The tumour may exist for some time before the patient becomes aware ot its presence. As it increases in size, the passage ot air through that side of the nose in which the tumour is situ- ated becomes impeded, particularly dunng moist weather, when the tumour swells from diminished atmospheric pressure; the patient feels it moving dunng respiration the sense of smell is impaired on that side, as is also tnai of hearing, from the pressure against the Eustachian tube,