636 SURGEUY. tutional symptoms, do not relieve the affection, mercury sliould be exhibited, and, if necessary, to salivation, la the more chronic form, issues, setons, blisters, and the moxa applied round the joint will be found beneficial. Chronic synovitis is occasionally met with and often associated with rheumatism. Tlie symptoms resemble those of the acute disease, except in severity and the dura- tion of the disease. It often leads to copious effusion of fluid into the joint named hydrarthrus. The treatment must be largely constitutional; leeches may be required, and the strictest rest enjoined. When pain and inflam- matory symptoms subside, various counter-irritants with support are useful, such as Scott's ointment and plasters, iodine, &c. Brown pulpy degeneration of the synovial membrane of the knee-joint has been pointed out by Sir B. Brodie. It generally occurs in adults, is tedious in its progress, and attended with little or no pain, and passes on to ulceration of the cartilages and copious effusion of serous and puru- lent matter it may open externally by several orifices, cause hectic symptoms, and destroy the patient, unless amputa- tion be resorted to. Ulceration of the cartilages takes place in more ad- vanced life, and is characterised by a severe fixed pain referred to one part of the joint, most frequently on the inner side; this after some time, in many cases not for months, is followed by swelling of the joiut, a diffusion of pain, and severe constitutional disturbance. It terminates, like synovitis, in the formation of pus in the articulation, and destruction of the interior of the joint. Its treatment is the same as that recommended for synovitis. In some cases the ulceration of the cartilage ceases and the. joint recovers, the place of the cartilage being supplied by an osseous deposition of unusual hardness; in others anchy- losis takes place. Scrofulous affection of the knee-joint (ivhite-sioelliiig).— This affection appears eitlier before or about the age of puberty, and in persons of a scrofulous diathesis. It is in general caused by repeated, though trifliug, injuries, such as sprains of the joints, from which the patient re- covers but imperfectly, leaving more or less weakness and sometimes pain in the articulation. By degrees the disease