ANATOMY. 226 THOKACIC VISCERA. The thorax is a conical cavity, bounded superiorly by the first rib, the sternum, first dorsal vertebra, and the soft parts entering and passing out of the chest; inferiorly by the diaphragm; anteriorly by the sternum and cartilages of the ribs ; laterally by the bodies of the ribs and inter- costal muscles; and posteriorly by the spine and the angles of the ribs. The parts which pass through the upper aperture, are, the trachea, thyroid veins, right and left carotid and sub- clavian internal mammary and superior intercostal arteries, internal jugular and subclavian veins, the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, nervus vagus, and recurrent nerve of the left side, the oesophagus, the cardiac and sympa- thetic nerves, and longus colli of each side, and the thoracic duct, besides some other parts of minor im- portance. , The contents of the thorax are the lungs and 'pleurm, the heart and pericardium, and the contents of the anterior and posterior mediastinum. The pleura of each side is a smooth serous membrane, forming a shut sac; one portion, lining the inside of the ribs, and the thickest, is called pleura costahs; the part reflected over the lungs is named pleura jndmoialis. It is also reflected upon the pericardium and diaphragm, on each side. By some anatomists a distinct fibrous membrane is described as existing between the ribs and the pleura. This membrane is lubricated by a soft fluid or hahtus ; and the two portions are, during health, in constant appo- sition, solely with the intervention of this fluid. These oval bags, by nearly meeting near the centre ot the chest, form two triangular interstices, named the anterior and posterior mediastinum. Some anatomists add to these a third mediastinum, including within it the heart, pericardium, and phrenic nerves. . , „ The anterior mediastinum, separated superiorly from the posterior one by the bifurcation of the trachea, the arch ot the aorta and venae innominatse, contains the remains ot the thymus gland, the origin of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, lymphatics from the surface ot the liver the left internal mammary artery and vein, and