NERVOUS SYSTEM. 145 forming the scolloped or toothed appearance which gives the ligament its name. The ligamentum denticulatum is almost entirely covered by the arachnoid; it separates the anterior from the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. It preserves the spinal cord from concussion in sudden lateral movements of the body. The ligamentum denticulatum is situated between the dura mater and the pia-mater; from this reason some have conceived it to be formed by the arachnoid, but it is generally considered, at the present Clay, that it is of a perfectly distinct structure. The nervous system in general is, in the present day, divided into tvyo grand parts, for the purposes of description, Une, caUed the cerebro-spinal, containing the nerves of animal life; the other, the ganglionic, which comprises the nerves of organic life. This latter, in man, is represented by the sympathetic nerves and their adjuncts. All the vertebrata have the two systems developed in every indi- vidual but the animals of a lower range, such as the Crus- tacea have no distinct cerebro-spinal system, thouo-h the ganglionic is in general sufficiently well developed Before entering upon a detail of the cerebro-spinal system, it wiU be necessary to say a few words ot' the various substances of which it is composed. The white or medullary substance is found in the interior ot the cerebrum and cerebellum, but on the exterior of the medul a spinalis, meduUa oblongata, pons varolii, crus cerebelh, and crus cerebri. It is composed of an immense number of small tubes or fibrill^, which never communi! cate with one another, although they occasionally interlace Ihe white substance seems only (as far as can be known) to act the part of a conductor to the various nervous mrni festations exhibited by the grey. The fibres of whL sub.' srt^:^;:t';:ved"^^^^^^'"- ^-p^^ ternally in tiie crura cerebri and c cereboi T varolii, medulla oblongata, and medul a snTn.l ' Tb P'"' substance is compose! of small, c^'^;^^l^ grey substance has been supposed t'o owe itrcTlour to Uic 7