SYMPATHETIC NEKVE, 191 into two branches, the carotic and petrous. The carotic branch runs down to the carotid artery, uniting with the plexus of this artery, and is thus connected with the first cervical ganglion; the petrous branch (large sxiperficialpetrosal) perforates the cartilage, filling up the foramen lacerum, and then runs beneath the dura mater, towards the foramen innominatinu, which it enters; soon after its entrance it unites with the portio dura, and runs with it along the aqueduct of Fallopius to its inferior extremity, where it leaves it; it then perforates the petrous bone and gets into the tympanum, running between the long crus of the incus and handle of the malleus, hence called chorda tympani, and emerges at the fissura glasseri; it then descends to the inner side of the lower jaw, communicating with the gustatory, and is ultimately distributed to the submaxillary ganglion. N.B. The chorda tympani nerve is described by some as proceeding from the portio dura of the 7th. Cloquefs ganglion, or naso-palatine, is situate in the anterior palatine canal, or foramen. It receives from each side, superiorly, the naso-palatine nerve; inferiorly, a filament from the great palatine nerve; and sends two or three twigs to the mucous membrane, on the anterior surface of the hard palate. The submaxillary ganglion, or plexus, is small, and has a plexiform appearance. It rests upon the submaxillary gland. It communicates with the following nerves : Posteriorly, with the vidian. Superiorly, with the gustatory. Inferiorly, it gives ofif filaments to accompany the Whartonian duct, and twigs to the submaxillary gland. The otic ganglion, first minutely described by Arnold, is seated at the base of the skull, very near to the foram'en ovale, and to the inner side of the third division of the fifth pair ; internal to it is the Eustachian tube, and circumflexus palati; posteriorly, the middle meningeal artery. It com- municates, by small filaments, with— the .third division of the fifth pair, at its exit from the loramen ovale; the pterygoid nerve; the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, by a minute petrous twig. ° ' ' It appears to give off— a filament to the tensor tympani muscle; „ to the tensor palati; ' „ to the temporo-auricular nerve. The superior cervical ganglion extends from the foramen magnum to the second or tiiird cervical vertebra, gener.ally