717 UEIXARY CALCULI AND LITHOTOMY. been detected ■when the sound has failed, by passing a silver catheter into the bladder. The sudden escape of the urine along the catheter forces the stone against the extremity of the instrument, and thus the stone is discovered. The surgeon should always feel the stone distinctly before he pronounces on its being present, as the striking of the instrument against foreign bodies in the rectum, against the sacrum, an enlarged prostate gland, or a thickened fold of mucous membrane, is liable' to mislead him. When this stone is of small size, it may possibly be removed through the urethra, by dilating this canal, as recommended to be practised by Sir A. Cooper. It has been suggested that tlie injection of fluids into the bladder, -which are known to act as solvents of the stone, when removed from the viscus, should be practised; this plan, although frequently tried, has been found of no avail, as the solvents, if injected into the bladder of sufficient strength to have an effect on the stone, will act injuriously on the bladder. The only injec- tions of use are those of an anodyne quality, which lessen the irritability of the bladder, and thus relieve the patient. When the presence of a large stone has been determined on, it may be removed by the operation of lithotomy, provided there is not any local or constitutional disease to forbid its performance, and the stone is not encysted or adherent. The operation is performed as follows: The rectum having been emptied by an enema a few hours before the operation, and the patient having been desired to retain his urine for an hour or two previous to its performance, he is placed near the edge of a table of convenient height, having his hand and feet tied together, and a pillow placed beneath the but- tocks. First introduce the sound, and ascertain that the stone M still free in the bladder; pass in the grooved staff,* and confide it to the care of an assistant, who at the same time draws up the scrotum and penis, and makes the perineum tense. The knees of the patient being held steadily apart, make the first incision in perineo, commencing it immediately beliind the posterior cdae of t.hn sprntnm t„ ii,. i../-,. _^ posterior edge of the scrotum, and to the left of the .ai^uc, ou,.y,ng It downwards, backwards, and outwards until you termmate it midway between the anus and tuber ischii. This * fvWMnT^'r' ^^'n^J' ^"""'l^houW be introduced before tying up the patient. Others state that the staff will be sufKcient 10 ascertain the presence of the stone without the sound.