ENCYSTED TUMOURS. 693 cation of the ligature gives the best although feeble hopes of success in the treatment. TUMOURS OF SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE. Tumours or swellings of this membrane have a soft consistence, producing no discoloration; ■when large, they give some sensation of fluctuation. Not painful on pres- sure, but produce inconvenience by weakening the muscu- lar action of the part. These swellings are brought on by contusions or strong muscular efforts. The House-maid's knee is of this character. A ganglion on the back of the hand causes troublesome symptoms, amongst which is a weakness of the extensor muscles. It has been removed by the sac being ruptured by a smart blow; or the sac may be opened by a lancet, and the wound healed by the first intention. ENCYSTED TUMOURS. These are understood to be tumours in which the con- tents must be of a different texture from the sac, and not of a solid consistence. These contents vary in consistence, from that of a thin liquid to that of soft cheese,—hence the old names of atheroma and meliceris : atheroma mean- ing an encysted tumour, with a thick pap-like substance; meliceris, one containing a fluid as thick as honey, or honey and wax mixed. These tumours may exist in various textures; they vary much in form, size, and organisation. The encysted tu- mour of the eyelid appears more like a diseased sebaceous gland: it may sometimes be dissipated by frequently bathing the eye with water. If they enlarge, they may be dissected out. The black specks often seen on the face, are the orifices of the oleaginous glands. On pressing out the concrete oil, the spot disappears. The encysted tumours of the scalp and back are of the same nature: their con- tents are soft, and often of a peculiar ofi'ensive odour. The cyst is generally soft, and yields easily. They are not malignant, but will sometimes cause inflammation and sloughing of the surrounding parts, a process which nature sets up to remove them. They may be easily dis- sected out with the knife, and every portion of the sac should be carefully removed. When they occur about the