669 TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. cure is effected by the obstruction to the passage of the blood from the main trunk into the aneurismal sac. The artery beneath the tourniquet becoming closed and sub- sequently the sac itself. Compression having failed, the operation for aneurism is to be resorted to. This, the greatest improvement in modern surgery, consists in applying a ligature round the artery leading to the tumour, but at a distance from it. The ancient surgeons were in the habit of cutting through the aneurismal sac, and tying the artery immediately above and below the opening in its parietes; but as they thus secured a diseased vessel, their operations were almost always followed by secondary heemorrhage, from the sloughing of the artery previously to or immediately after the separation of the ligature. Fortunate indeed was the patient considered who recovered with an anchylosed knee-joint. John Hunter first tied the artery at a distance from the disease, and thus, although his operations were not generally successful, (from his not tying the vessel sufficiently remote from the disease,) paved the way to the improvement suggested by Scarpa, of applying the ligature at a still greater distance, viz., in the inguinal region, or, as it is frequently called, Scarpa's triangle. The artery, let us say the femoral, being exposed, it is gently separated (in order that we may not injure the vasa vasorum ), from its surrounding connections, and the ligature passed round it, taking care to avoid the vein and nerves. The ligature is now to be drawn tightly around the artery, and secured with a double knot, one end being cut short, the other is to be brought out at the wound, which being closed with adhesive plaster and bandage, the patient is to be removed to bed and placed in the recumbent posture, with the knee and thigh supported on a pillow, so as to relax the vessel. In the course of from ten to fourteen or twenty-one days, the ligature separates, the wound closes, the aneurismal tumour loses all pulsation and finally disappears, and the patient recovers the perfect use of the limb. But let us trace more minutely the successive changes which take place before this favorable termination. The ligature having been firmly tied divides the internal and middle coats of the artery, the circulation is thus stopped