TKEATMEKT OF FRACTURES. 617 characters of dislocation of the humerus into the axilla ; it is distinguished from the latter by the crepitus recog- nised on placing the fingers on the coracoid process, and at the same time moving the arm; by the defor- niity being removed on pressing the arm upwards, and its immediate return on withdrawing the pressure. This fracture is treated as fractures of the clavicle, and the principal objects we have in view are the support and quietude of the arm. The English surgeons disapprove of the pad m the axiUa, while the French recommend it. The union is generally by hgament. The fracture traverses the scapula behind the coracoid process. The acromion process is sometimes broken by falls on the shoulder; it is treated as the preceding, and unites also generally by hga- ment. The scapula itself may be broken, but this is ex- ceedmgly rare. Fractures of the humerus.—'ilie humerus may be broken in any portion of its extent. Fracture of the upper third IS generaUy described as fracture of the neck of the bone. Ihe displacement attending this fracture varies as the bone IS fractured above or below the insertion of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi muscles. In the former case the lower portion of the bone is drawn inwards by these muscles, in the atter it is drawn outwards and upwards by the deltoid whilst the upper portion is drawn inwards by the pectorahs and latissimus dorsi. This fracture may be mistaken for a dislocation of the humerus into the axilla from which It may be distinguished by the shortening of the arm, and the crepitus ascertained by passing one hand over the shoulder, and fixing the head of the bone and moving with the other the lower extremity of the humerus This fracture is treated by passing a roller round the 1 mb the bones having been placed in apposition, and appMnVa yhntoatheantenor,posterior,audoutersurfacesot-^^^^^^^^ There is no occasion for a splint on tbe inner sirln «7wJ the arm is brought inward's to the cLst t tt'b Ii^" ciently supported in this direction. It is wp^ h to place a large flat compress insid; the al to as tlZ' port the fracture in this direction A J! f > , P' for treating fractures of 2 humerut 17 "if other fractifres, is made by co eri g one surfaJ .1' "Tl with adhesive plaster, an/then slitfinrt^^^