DIGASTBIC Oil SUPBA-HYOID REGION. 303 6. Arteria angidaris is the terminating branch of the labial artery- it ascends between the lieads of the levator labii snperioris alEeque nasi to the inner canthus of the eye, sends branches to the lids and caruncnla lacrymalis, and anastomoses with branches from the ophthalmic arteiy. The angular y«« proceeds from the terminating branches of the angular artery, and being joined by a large vein from the forehead, which indeed appears to be the com- mencement of the fiicial vein, it descends close to the artery to form the facial vein. This facial takes a nearly vertical course downwards, along the side of the cheek, crosses Steno's duct, where it is at some distance from the artery, descends over the side of the inferior maxilla, and termmates in the internal jugular vein in the anterior superior triangle of the neck. It frequently sends off a branch to join the external jugular vein. The angular vessels, and more particularly the vein, are endangered in performing the operation for the cure of fistula lacrymalis The incision should be made on the outer side of these vessels. ' The trunk of the labial artery, whilst in the neck, is engaged in the operations of extirpating the submaxillary gland, or in removing the lower jaw; when divided it should be at once secured In the tace it is much exposed to wounds, as also the several operations performed in this region. When wounded, the vessel may be compressed by the finger of an assistant, where it cmses wn is secured. Smal neceZy '''' P"^P°^^' "^"^ In no part of the body, perhaps, does a more free anastomosis of he smaller arterial branches exist than between the ve^n he face. This has an important influence in restoring the circu- " lation when the carotid artery has been tied. It also affects materially the treatnient of aneurism by anastomosis, ^ wWch rhetumour "''^'^ 'y*^'"^ '''' artery leading t^ On raising the submaxillary gland, the mvlo-hvoid ztz::'7^: ^1 '/^".f\ -"11 povtioro7the nyo glossus. The mylo-hyoid muscle, extending from the raylo-hyoidean ridge of the inferior maxilla to Z os hyoides, ,s continuous on the mesial line w h if! f i % teoppo.tesid.^ of much use in the act of sucking. On raisinf. it M i ;