79 LIGAMENTS OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. THE HUMERO-CUBITAL ARTICULATION^ OR ELBOW-JOINT. This articulation is formed by three bones ; the humerus, the ulna, and the radius. The parts of the humerus entering into it are named the capitulum, trochlea, and epitrochlea. The ulna presents the great and less sigmoid cavities, and the radius supplies its head. THE LIGAMENTS OP THE ELBOW-JOINT. The ligaments of the elbow-joint are the anterior and posterior ligaments; the internal and external lateral ligaments, lined by synovial membrane. The anterior ligament is a thin weak ligament, composed of fibres loosely connected together; it commences superiorly from the surface of the lower extremity of the humerus, above the internal condyle and the anterior humeral fossa; from this its fibres descend, to be attached to the orbicular ligament of the radius ; when well marked a few fibres may be traced to the coronoid process of the ulna. Its anterior surface is covered by the brachiahs anticus muscle, to which it is connected, but not intimately, by cellular substance. The posterior ligament may be exposed by detaching from it the tendon of the triceps muscle; this must be done with care, as the ligament is exceedingly thin, and adheres intimately to the muscle; it is not so well marked as the preceding. It arises superiorly from the po'sterior surface of the humerus, around the posterior humeral fossa, passes downwards, and is inserted into the summit of the olecranon process. Its fibres are badly marked, but may be divided into two portions, a descending^ situated on the internal part of the joint, and a transverse^ which is the more distinct, and crosses between the condyles of the humerus. The external lateral ligament is intimately connected with the tendinous origins of the supinator and extensor muscles, particularly that of the supinator brevis; superiorly It IS attached to the external condyle of tiie humerus, passes downwards, expands, and is inserted inferiorly into the orbicular or annular ligament of the radius, having no connection with the bone. The internal lateral ligament is perfectly distinct, and