PERINEUM IN THE MALE. 375 and transversalis raised upwards; the internal abdominal ring being now brought into view is dilated, and the finger passed throngh it to the artery, which is tied, as in Mr. Abernethv's operation. Of these two operations Sir A. Cooper's is to be preferred, as it is more easily performed, and the abdominal muscles are not divided to the same extent,—hence a hernia is not so likely to follow; in addition, should secondary haemon-hage ensue, we can have recourse to Mr. Abernethv's plan, and tie the vessel hio-her up. ° THE PERINEUM IN THE MALE. The perineum is a diamond-shaped space, situated between the upper part of the thighs, bounded in front by the symphysis pubis, behind by the coccyx, on eacli side by the ramus of the ischium and pubis, the tuber ischn, the great sciatic ligament, and inferior border of the gluteus maximus muscle. It is divided by some for the sake of description into two parts, by a line drawn transversely from the tuberosity of one ischium to the other. The part anterior to this line is named the urethral portion, that posteriorly is named anal. The integuments covering the perineum are thin and of a brownish colour. On the mesial line a ridge proiects named the raphe of the perineum, which commences in tront ot the anus, extends forwards along the perineum scrotum, and under surface of the penis, in some subiects as far as the fraenum preputii. As the raphe indicates the mesial hue, it serves as our guide in cutting down on the urethra opening abscesses in perineo, &c.; in the operation ot lithotomy, we cut to its left side. On raising the integuments from the perineum the subcutaneous cellular tissue or fascia and sphincter ani are exposed. The superficial fascia is thin and loose • it is continuous with the surrounding cellular tissue, and con- tains a few small blood-vessels and nerves; posterioriv it becomes increased in quantity, and loaded with adipose tissue, and sinks into a deep triangular fossa between ti e rectum and levator am internally, and the obturator inte ! nus muscle externally This adipose tissue is sometb'es attacked with erysipelatous inflammation, which if no restrained may terminate in slouehine- so n, tr^ i i the rectun,. Incisions sh„„M b/lS T„t"o' t o oS" fssue, before the intommation arrives at its liei..|,t