51 & STJRGEET. ein is turned inwards, and unites with its fellow on the mesial line, to form the linea alba; a second is directed upwards and outwards, slightly concave, and gives at- tachment to the fleshy fibres of the muscle; the third mar- ein is turned downwards and outwards; and here presents I thickened condensed cord, named Poupart's bgament The tendinous fibres of the external obhque muscle take a direction downwards and inwards; a few may be ob- served to decussate with these, taking an obhque course upwards and inwards. As we trace them towards the pubis they increase in strength and density; and, having arrived within about an inch and a half of this bone, they separate into two bands, and thus leave an interval be- tween them, named the external abdominal ring The bands are named the pillars of the ring. One of them, the internal, lies anterior and superior to the other; it is a broad flat sheet of tendon, which, passing mwards, descends in front of the symphysis pubis, into which it is implanted, decussating with its fellow of the opposite side. A few fibres pass from it to be continuous with the tascia lata of the opposite side; others may be traced descendmg on the dorsum of the penis, contributing to form the true suspensory ligament of this organ. The external pillar of the ring, stronger and shorter than the other, is a con- tinuation of Poupart's ligament: it is a round fibrous cord, descends inwards, and is mserted mto the spine or tubercle of the pubis; on it the spermaUc cord rests as it escapes through the ring. „, . Inferiorly, or towards the thigh, the descending fibres of the external oblique muscle become condensed and form Po^Ps ligament, a dense fibrous cord, -hmh descends • inwirds from the anterior superior spmous P^oces. o the ilium to the pubes, into which it is implanted two ^"^cl^- ments: one, already described as the externa pdlar of l e ring, is inserted into the spine or tubei-cle of the pubes; he other is an expansion from this, and forms a broad thin ligament, which ascends obUquely inwards, to be mserted into the internal extremity of the linea innominata; it is named Gimbernafs ligament, or the third insertion of the crural arch. It lies superior and posterior to he external pillar of the ring, or second insertion of Poupait s ligament.