426 PHYSIOLOGY. • cartilages of the eyelids, nose, and ear, as vfeW as the epiglottis and cornicula laryngis. The white cartilages are composed of cells, each of which contains more or less nuclei, imbedded in a large quantity of substance called the matrix, which is of an uniform structure, and in which very few, if any, fibres are found. The white cartilages are, as a general rule, liable more or less to ossification, but the articular are an almost complete exception, cases of their being found ossified being ex- tremely rare. The yellow cartilages are much softer in structure, and, like the white, contain nucleated cells, imbedded in a matrix; but they differ in their not being liable to ossifi- cation, and in their being in every direction pervaded with fibres. The cartilages of the body are almost entirely devoid of visible blood-vessels. They also contain no visible nerves, Fibro-cartilages.—These, as their name implies, are in- termediate in their properties between the fibrous and cartilaginous tissues. They all combine to a considerable extent both firmness and elasticity, with toughness and flexibility. They are found in the body either as inter- articular fibro-cartilages, or surrounding the edges of joints to deepen the cavity, of which a good example is seen in the cotyloid ligament of the hip-joint, or as connecting parts, in which a slight degree of motion is requisite but no synovial capsule exists, as between the bodies of the vertebrse, or as a thin layer lining the walls of the bony grooves in which tendons run. Fibro-cartilage, when examined by the microscope, is found to be composed of bundles of fibres surrounding cartilage cells. In some of the fibro-cartilages the one structure is more abundant than the other, and in most cases the fibrous tissue predominates. The vascularity oi fibro-cartilage is very low, nor has it much tendency to ossific deposit. , Bone.—The chemical composition of this structure has been already given with the animal chemistry. Bones are commonly divided into three classes, long, flat, and mixed; the former in most instances possessing a shaft of compact structure, (of which also the articular surfaces are com- posed,) and the extremities, of which the tissue is spongy.