233 THE HEAKT. into three branches, which enter and ramify in the lung. The left branch crosses over the descending aorta, and divides into two branches, which, like the right, divide and subdivide, terminating in capillary vessels, which reflected form the commencement of the four pulmonary veins. The left auricle, situated at the upper and back part, like the right one, has a smooth portion, named sinus arteriosus, and an auricular appendix containing musculi pectinati, but not so large as on the right side. There are five openings into it, four from the pulmonary veins, entering at its angles, and one into the left ventricle, rather smaller than on the right side. The fossa ovalis, with its annulus, may be perceived, but is not so evident as in the right auricle. The left ventricle, of a conical form, has parietes much thicker than the right, and is longer, but its capacity for blood is rather smaller. Its extremity forms the apex of the heai't; its inner wall forms the greater portion of the septum ventriculorim. It has an opening from the auricle, and one into the aorta. The auricular opening is sur- rounded or guarded by the mitral or bicuspid valve, which is strengthened by the chordce tendinece, and these are attached by their other extremity to the carnece columncB. The mitral valve consists of two pieces, of which the right one is much the larger, and is placed between the opening from the auricle and that into the aorta, and is more deserving the name of septum than a similar portion of the tricuspid valve : its use is to divide the two currents of blood. At the upper part of the ventricle, and rather anterior to the auricular orifice, is the opening into the aorta. The aorta and pulmonary artery are connected to the heart in a similar manner. The external and internal coats are continuous with those of the heart, but the middle elastic coat has a peculiar arrangement. It is found to commence by a defined edge, presenting three festoons, by which a few tendinous fibres connect it with the substance of the heart. At these openings, tendinous zones are described as existing, like those at the auriculo-ventricular openings, but are much weaker and less visible. At the commencement of the aorta there are three sigmoid or semilunar valves, with the corpora sesamoidea, as in the