SURGEEY. 582 State. The iodide of potassium, with sarsaparilla, is at- tended here also with signal benefit. SYPHILITIC DISEASES 01' THE PERIOSTEUM AND BONES are later in their appearance than those of the skin. The long bones, which are exposed and are uncovered by muscles, are most liable to them; such as the tibia, fibula, xilna, and clavicle ; the femur and humerus are but rarely afi"ected. The flat bones of the head, particularly the os frontis and os parietale, are also attacked with secondary syphilis. Of the irregular bones, the sternum is most subject to syphilitic attacks. The symptoms by which syphilitic diseases of the bones are known are as follow:— the patient experiences, in the evening, a sensation of pain in the bone, which is afterwards the seat of the node, this pain does not immediately produce a swelling, but, in the course of a few days, a swelling appears in the evening, and disappears on the following morning. It is tender and painful in the evening: but these symptoms are scarcely perceptible in the morning. At this time, the periosteum only is affected; but soon after, a deposit takes place between it and the surface of the bone: this deposit is, in the first instance, only a serous fluid, but a cartilaginous substance is soon secreted, which is gradu- ally converted into bone, forming a node. The treatment of this affection is the same as that for other forms of syphilis, namely, the exhibition of mercury. If there be much pain present, leeches or blisters may be applied to the parts. If the bone is enlarged, the emplas- trum ammoniaci c. hydrargyro, or a blister, will sometimes cause the absorption of the osseous deposit. A quantity of serous fluid is sometimes found fluctuatmg between the periosteum and bone. When this is unattended with any inflammation of the skin, it is better not to cut down upon the bone, for if this is done, exfoliation will most likely be the result; blisters, in conjunction with mercury, will in general cause the absorption of the tumour. When, on the contrary, redness and pain are present in the part, in- dicating the presence of purulent matter, an incision should be made immediately through the periosteum. Caries of the bone and exfoliation often take place (not- withstanding all our efl'orts to the contrary), which exhaust