GOXORRHCEA. 55/ affected, returning when the inflammation of the gland has subsided. Another plan of treatment attributed to Ricord, consists of surrounding the testicle tightly with strips of adhesive plaster. The application is very painful at first, but ceases to be so in a short time, and the swelling and pain speedily subside. The plasters require to be reapplied almost daily. The great advantage accruing from this treatment is, that in a few days the testicle acquires its normal size, instead of the irksome enlargement which follows the other plans. Should hernia humorahs be neglected, the inflammation of the gland proceeds to suppuration, and an abscess is the result; this, by degrees bursts on the anterior part of the scrotum, when the matter, mixed with semen, is dis- charged, as also a portion of the tubular, or secreting portion of the gland ; fungous granulations now form from the mtenor of the testis, and a tumour is the result, forming fungus or liporna of the testis. This fungus may be removed by the use of the actual or potential cautery, by excision ligature, or the strong solution of nitrate of silver Where the last-mentioned remedy is Hkely to succeed, it should be preferred; where it faUs, the nitric acid or chloride of antimony claims a preference over other appUcations As soon as the slough formed by these remedies separates healthy granulations appear, which, contracting, close the opening in the scrotum, when the case gets weU. The gland in these cases is generally destroyed. HcBmorrhage sometimes takes place during a gonorrhoea It IS seldom senous, and is often the forerunner of the entire disappearance of the disease. Should it be alarm ing a silver catheter may be introduced into the bladder and a roller bound tightly round the penis; in 4nS tt bSiTng."" °' •^^^^ ^•^ffi'^i-^ ^« -"rab G/ee^ is a discharge of a thick mucus, which remains for a length of time, sometimes for months, after tW ?..,? symptoms of gonorrhoea have subsided It in I \ depends on a relaxed condition of the ptts. ' The'r o stSTe."^"'""' '^^'^ ''''^ ba'thing will be found Fhymosu and Faraphynom are not unfrequently met