158 ANATOMY. and is rendered somewhat more so by the various parts in relation with or passing through it. The external part ot the pons, both anteriorly and posteriorly, may be considered as forming the great commissure of the cerebellum, ihis portion is composed of medullary substance, the fibres ot whicli are transverse. InternaUy, the pons varohi is filled by a quantity of grey ganglionic substance, througti the centre of which the fibres of the corpora pyramidaha and olivaria pass from behind forwards and upwards to form the crura cerebri. These fibres are greatly increased in tliis situation as to number, and this circumstance has caused the pons varolii to be considered as the first or cerebellar ganglion of increase to the spinal cord, it must, however, be borne in mind, that the posterior pillars, or corpora restiformia,- do not enter into the pons varolu at all Bv the sides of the pons varolii are seen the tourtn nerves coming from their origin in the valve of Wsens and at its point of junction with the crus cerebelh of each side the fifth nerve makes its exit. , , j The crura cerehelli are two thick medullary cords, lead- ing from the pons varolii to the lateral portions ot the cerebellum, one on each side. They are composed of medullary substance. „ Immediately behind the pons varolii is seen the medulla oblongata. This is the upper end of the spinal cord, and is considerably thicker and more expanded than the rest- Although the?e is no distinct hue of demarcation that separates it from the rest of the spmal cord we are accustomed to consider about the ^"If "^^'/-^^^ .fj"^, ^ nnarter as belonging to the medulla oblongata, wlulst the r^tt des^cJ^'as^he cord. The medulla oblongata is about five eighths of an inch broad and half an m^h thick It is divided by an anterior, a posterior, and two lateral grooves into four rounded bodies, called pyramids, of which the two anterior are called anterior pyramids and the two posterior, jjosterior pyramids. Between tuese two, at the upper part of the lateral groove, is seen on elch side a little oblong elevation, called from its shape the corpus olivare: and, between the corpus ohvare aiKi posterior pyramid is the corpus resUforme of some au ho The -eneral figure of the anterior part of the medulla oblongata is rounded, of the posterior flattened.