733 MALIGNANT DISEASES. the nail, which requires to be discharged with the point of the lancet, when the disease usually subsides. When the matter forms beneath the nail, this may be cut through to allow of its escape. This is best accomplished by first paring the nail, as thin as possible, with a piece of glass, and then using the point of the lancet. In these cases the nail is generally thrown off. In the third form of the disease, when the inflammation is situated in the sheath of the tendons, the symptoms are much more urgent. The whole finger is then engaged, there is most excruciating pain of a throbbing character, much aggravated by placing the finger in the depending position, and extending upwards to the hand, wrist, elbow, and even shoulders. There is but little redness or swelHng. In most cases there is a considerable degree of fever, and the patient is deprived of rest. Leeches, warm fomen- tations, and poultices may be used in the early stages, but should the inflammation not abate by these means, an inci- sion should be made on the anterior surface of the fingers down to the inflamed parts. This gives immediate relief, a small quantity of pus is discharged, and the disease subsides in a few days by the use of warm fomentations and poultices. If the disease be not arrested, the inflammation will spread upwards into the palm of the hand, from thence, beneath the annular ligament of the wrist, into the forearm, in all of which places abscesses will form, frequently attended with sloughing of the fasciae and some of the tendons, parti- cularly that of the finger first affected. Under these circumstances, deep and free incision should be made into the inflamed parts, to give exit to the matter and sloughs, and poultices be afterwards applied. The use of the forearm and hand is often lost from the matting of the tendons and synovial sheaths caused by the inflammation; not unfre- quently amputation is required. Ganglion is an encysted, circumscribed, moveable sweUing, commonly free from pain, causing no alteration in the colour of the skin and formed upon tendons in different parts of the body, but most frequently on tlie dorsum of the hand or foot. When ganglions attain a large size, they mterfere with the action of the tendon