TREATMENT OF FRACTUEES. 611 which take place in it at this age; it is still more frequent in the female than in the male, as the neck of the femur is more transverse and longer than in the former. The neck of the femur is in general fractured by falls on the trochanter major, or by the foot coming violently against the ground, or in slipping off the curb-stone in walking. The symptoms of the fracture are best observed when the patient is placed in the recumbent posture. The injured limb will then be found to be from one to two inches shorter than the other, having been retracted by the action of the gluteal muscles ; the heel rests against the fossa between the internal malleolus and os calcis of the opposite foot; the foot is everted from the greater power of the rotators outwards and the natural inclina- tion of the limb to this position; the patella is higher up than the opposite one, and the hip is less prominent than in the natural state. The patient is wholly unable to raise the limb from the bed. If the surgeon now places his hand on the trochanter, and extension be made by an assistant from the foot, and the Umb rotated, as soon as It IS brought to the same length with the other, so as to bnng the fractured portions in contact, crepitus is at once distmguished. Rotation inwards and abduction are par- ticularly painful. In rotating the femur the bone is ob- served to turn upon its own axis, the trochanter major not as m Its natural state, describing a semicircular motion' fc)0 soon as the extending force is removed, the limb is again retracted. In general, fracture of the neck of the temur is easy of diagnosis, but this is not always the case as the bone may be fractured without presenting the symptoms mentioned; thus shortening is not always present and m many cases does not occur for some days after the receipt of the injury, arising most pro- bably from the bones being impacted one into the other or some spiculje retaining their hold; the foot may be inverted, but this is rare, or it may be in any position, in which it is accidentally placed- tl L^s often too, great swelling about the^jo^i , and ^ff sion into the synovial sac. which obscure 'the appearances of the parts, and render crepitus indistinct Vl^^^'^^ncc^ ot Dislocation of the hip-joint on the dorsum of the ilium or into the sciatic notch, and contusion of the soft pam