REGION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. 353 consequeut upou venesection, viz., diffused aneurism, aneurismal varLx, and varicose aneurism. Beneath tlie semilunar fascia of the biceps, the brachial artery sinks into a deep triangular fossa, situated imme- diately below and in front of the elbow-joint, bounded above by the brachialis anticus muscle, externally by the supinator radii longus, and internally by the pronator radii teres. The median nerve and biceps tendon accom- pany the artery into this fossa, the nerve lying to its inner, the tendon to its outer side. Operations on the brachial artery.—The brachial artery may be tied with facility in any part of its course. It is most frequently the subject of operation for the cure of aneurisms at the bend of the elbow, the result of careless venesection. Should the disease be a circumscribed aneurism, the artery may be tied in the middle of the arm; but if it be a diffused aneurism, the tumour should be cut into, the coagula be reuioved, and the artery tied above and below the orifice in its coats. Some recommend this operation to be performed for circumscribed aneurism also; or, at least, that the artery should be tied immediately above the tumour. Of the three proposed methods for the cure of circum- scribed aneurism, the last is preferable, and is easiest of perform- ance. Aneurismal varix and varicose aneurism seldom require an operation. The brachial artery may be tied in the middle of the arm in the fol- lowing manner: Place the patient in the recumbent posture, with the arm abducted and rotated outwards ; make an incision, about three inches long, in a line with the inner edge of the biceps muscle, through the integuments and superficial fascia, taking care to avoid the superficial veins and nerves; cut through the brachial aponeurosis on a director, and proceed to separate the artery from the median nerve, and the ven£e comites; this being accomplished, the artery is to be secured in the usual manner. Before proceeding to the operation of tying the brachial artery at the bend of the elbow for the cure of aneurism, by cutting into the aneurismal tumour, and then securing the vessel above and below the wound in its coats, the circulation in the Hmb may be commanded by the tourniquet, applied at some distance above the elbow This being done, an incision is to be made, about three inches m length, over the course of the artery, commencing It a little above the level of the internal condyle, and carrying it downwards and outwards. In this the integuments and Super- ficial fascia are divided, and most prol)ably some of the suoerficial veins, which should be avoided as much a's possible The semi- lunar fascia being now cut through, the aneurismal sac may be opened into ; remove the coagula from its interior, and proceed to look for the artery and particularly that part of it which has been wounded. This is sometimes a difficult task, in consequeuce