SURGERY. 718 incision cuts through the integuments, the subcutaneous cellular tissue, and most probably a few fibres of the sphincter ani. Com- mence the second incision close to where the first began, and carry it backwards in the same line, and to the same extent; in this the perineal fascia is divided, and the knife, passing into the triangular interval between the muscles of the perineum, divides the perineal vessels and nerves, and cuts across the transversus perinei muscle, vessels, and nerves, and behind these, the middle fibres of the levator ani. Now take the staff in the left hand, and, incUning its handle towards the right side of the patient, press it towards the wound in the perineum. Now feel for the groove with the nail of the index-finger of the left baud; and, having satisfied yourself of its situation, introduce the point of the knife or gorget,* into it, through the membranous portion of the urethra immediately behind the bulb; raise the staff, and with it the knife in the groove towards the arch of the pubis, so as to avoid the rectum as much as possible; move the point of the knife in the groove of the staff, that you may he assured of its not having slipped from it; depress the handle of the staff, still keeping it well raised, and at the same time push the knife upwards, and backwards, into the bladder, cutting through the mem- branous portion of the urethra, the anterior fibres of the leva- tor ani, or Wilson's muscles, the triangular ligament, and the left lobe of the prostate gland. The urine now escapes from the bladder: withdraw the knife, and, in doing so, dilate the external wound, if necessary. Pass the index-finger into the bladder, and feel for the stone, and remove it with the finger if possible. If this cannot be effected, withdraw the staff, and pass the lithotomy forceps into the bladder, seize the stone where narrowest, and remove it carefully through the widest part of the wound. Pass the finger again into the bladder, and ascertain if there should be another stone; if so, remove it, and so on until the bladder is com- pletely empty. When the stones are very numerous, they may be removed with the scoop; and, if broken down, tepid water should be injected, so as to remove every portion of the calculous matter, and prevent a nucleus remaining for the future formation of a stone. Sir A. Cooper prefers allowing of the calculous matter to escape in the after treatment of the case, to the injecting of water into the bladder. When a stone is too large to be extracted with the forceps, it is better to break it up than contuse the parts by a forcible removal of it. In the operation above described, when the membranous portion of the urethra has been opened by the point of the knife, instead of making the further incision into the bladder with the knife, some eminent s\irgeons, and especially those of long standing, make use of the gorget, which is fitted by its point into the groove of the staff, and guided by this, it is pushed forwards into the bladder. * Sir A. Cooper prefers the gorget in operating on adult and old persons, and particularly if the prostate gland be enlarged.