BONES OF THE SPINE. 9 named lamince or plates, which by their edges give attach- ment to the ligamenta subflava. The notches, which, by juxta-position of vertebrae, form the intervertebral foramina, are anterior to the articulating processes in all the vertebrae, except the atlas and upper surface of the second cervical vertebrse. The body and processes, united by the pedicles, form the bony walls of the vertebral or spinal canal. The cervical vertebrce are distinguished by the following particulars: The hody is longest in the transverse direction. Its upper surface is broader than the lower, and is concave from side to side. Its lower surface is convex. It is deeper anteriorly than posteriorly. The transverse processes arise by two roots, the anterior one from the body; they are bifurcated at their extremities, directed slightly forward, and near the base have a foramen for the passage of the vertebral artery and vein. The articulating processes superiorly look upwards and backwards the lower ones downwards and forwards. The plates are long and narrow. The sjnnous processes are short, project backwards at an angle of about 45 deg., and are bifurcated. The spinal canal is large and triangular. The particular cervical vertebrae, which require separate notice, are the atlas, the axis or vertebra dentata, and the seventh. The atlas is distinguished by the following peculiarities: It has no body, but is like a ring of bone. It presents transverse and articulating processes, which divide it into an anterior and posterior half-arch. The anterior half-arch, smaller, and convex anteriorly, presents a tubercle, with two lateral depressions for the attachments of the loneus colli of each side. On its posterior surface it presents an articulating surface for the odontoid process of the second vertebrae; and further back, on each side, a tubercle for the attachment of the transverse ligament. Its superior and inferior edges give attachments to ligaments. The transverse processes are on the same line as the articular, and project considerably outwards, and have the foramen for the vertebral artery. The superior articulating processes are large and concave for the condyles of the occipital bone, directed upwards and inwards, and converging anteriorly. The inferior articulating processes are circular and plane, and arc airected downwards and inwards. 1ยง