190 ANATOMY. the orbit between the optic nerve and external rectus muscle, and midway between the entrance of the optic nerve and the sclerotic coat. It is small, and is imbedded in a large quantity of fat. The filaments from it are— Anteriorly, ten to twelve, named short ciliary; they pass forwards, perforate the sclerotic coat at its posterior part, run forward between the sclerotic coat and choroid, and part of them pass into tlie iris; the greater number are lost in the ciliary ligament. Posteriorly, at the upper angle, a filament to the nasal nerve of the fifth; at the inferior angle, a filament to the inferior division of the third cerebral nerve; a third filament passes backwards to reach the carotic plexus. The spheno-palatine, or Meckel's ganglion, is situated in the pterygo-maxillary fossa, having in front the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone; behind, the roots of the pterygoid processes; internally, the palate bone and spheno- palatine foramen, and externally, the soft parts fiUing up the fossa. The branches of this ganghon are ascending, descending, internal, and posterior. .The ascending, or superior, are usually two, and large; they unite with the superior maxillary nerve. Some anatomists describe some small ascending filaments which enter the orbit by the pterygo-max- illary fissure to supply the periosteum. The descending are the palatine nerves, three m number. The areat palatine nerve descends in the great palatine canal, and emerges at the posterior palatine foramen, from which it runs forward beneath the arch of the palate, as far as the foramen incisivum, where it com- municates with Cloquet's ganglion. In its course it gives filaments, through the nasal plate of the palate bone, to the pitmtary membrane of the nose, filaments to the velum palati, tonsil, and soft parts of the palate and gums. . , , . . ■■• The middle palatine descends parallel with the former, in a distinct canal, and is distributed to the soft palate and tonsU. The small palatine, posterior to the two others, suppUes the tonsil and soft palate. The internal, or spheno-palatine, passes into the nasal fossne, througtt the sheno-palatine foramen, by three or four filaments. They ramify upon the spongy bones, but one branch passes down upon the floor of the nose, runs through the ductus iucisivus into the anterior pala- tine foramen, and communicates with Cloquet's gangUon. It is called the naso-palatiue nerve, or nerve of Cotunuius. The posterior branch is the vidian. It runs backwards through tne vidian canal, and having reached the foramen lacerum medium, divides