230 A.NATOMY. one is serous, lining tlie fibrous coat, and reflected over the heart itself. It has also a partial covering from the pleura of each side, and is strengthened below by its at- tachment to the cordiform tendon of the diaphragm. The fibrous bag of the pericardium is firmly attached to the central tendon of the diaphragm, inferiorly; laterally, to the pleura; and superiorly it is reflected upon the large vessels for some distance, and finally becomes con- tinuous -with their outer coat. It consists of fibres running in various directions, and is said to have eight openings in it, for the transmission of the large vessels; viz., one for the superior vena cava, two for the right and left branches of the pulmonary artery, one for the aorta, and four for the pulmonary veins. The vena cava inferior is immediately connected with the substance of the heart after its passage through the diaphragm, and it is said not to be surrounded by this fibrous coat. This statement appears very strange, if we admit that the fibrous bag surrounds the heart entirely; for in this case, the vein must either pass through the fibrous bag to the heart, or the heart must perforate the bag to reach the inferior vena cava. The lining serous coat is a shut sac, containing a small quantity of thin fluid {liquor pericardii) for the purpose of lubricating it, and allowing the free motion of the heart in the pericardium. THE HEART. The heart is a hollow muscle, of rather a pyi-amidal figure, placed obhquely in the lower and front part of tbe thorax, and most inclined to the left side. It is convex above, rather flattened below, where it rests upon the diaphragm. i- • i j • It is commonly described as externally divided into an apex, body, and base, a superior and inferior surface, and a right and left margin. The apex points between the cartilages of the fifth and sixth ribs. The base corresponds with the fourth'and fifth dorsal vertebrae. The right margin is longest but thinnest. The heart physiologically may be considered as double; the right side, called pulmonarij, to transmit the blood only to the lungs; the other systemic, from forcing the blood into all parts of the system. The right cavity of the