606 SURGERY. fracture is oblique the flexed position is to be preferred, as the weight of the leg acts as a counter-extending force, and prevents the displacement of the fracture. Mr. Pott's plan of placing the Umb on the outer side is now nearly, if not wholly, abandoned. The after-treatment of fractures consists in the occa- sional opening of the bandages to ascertain the condition of the limb, and in applying such remedies as may be considered necessary. Should any of the bandages have become soiled, new ones may be substituted by attaching them to the ends of those about to be removed, and drawing them one by one gently beneath the Umb. If inflammation have set in, leeches may be apphed, and the antiphlogistic regimen adopted. The bandages and splints are to be replaced for a few days longer, and so on, until the fracture is found to have united. The period for the accompHshment varies according to the bones broken, the age and constitution of tbe patient. Thus the bones of the lower extremities in the healthy state seldom unite sooner than five or six weeks, whereas those of the upper extremity take but three or four weeks. The bones of the infant unite in a week or ten days, whilst those of the old subject take from six to eight weeks to become consoHdated. When there is any dis- ease of the constitution the union may be protracted to a much longer period. Amongst the bones which unite soonest, are the ribs, clavicle, and lower jaw. The patient remains in general from four to six weeks after the fracture has united before he recovers the use of the limb, in conse- quence of the effusion that has taken place into the limb, the stiffness of the articulations, and the weakness of the muscles. The use of liniments and bathing with cold water wiU be found to strengthen the part and expedite reunion. When moderate attention has been paid, the surgeon meets with but little trouble in the treatment of simple fracture, nevertheless some unpleasant symptoms occasionally occur, viz. Yirsi.—Inflammation of the limb as first alluded to. ^QConAly. —Threatening mortification. This only takes place when the inflammation symptoms have not met with attention, or when tiie bandages have been tied too tightly on the Umb, or when this has become swollen