512 SUEGERY. SO doing we avoid the lumbar muscles posteriorly, the serratus and pectoral muscles in front. Some pass the trocar and canula into the chest, without any previous division of the soft parts; it is objectionable, as the lung may be adherent at that particular part, and will thus be wounded. The matter having been eva- cuated, the slcin is to be drawn down, so as to render the opening oblique, and thus more completely exclude the atmospheric air, and the edges of the wound are to be brought together by adhe- sive plaster. WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN are divided into, first, those which aflfect only the parietes ; second, those which penetrate its cavity; third, those which injure some of the contained viscera. Superficial wounds, or those which affect only the pa- rietes, are treated as superficial wounds in other parts of the body. Sutures will be found more efficacious in re- taining the edges of the wound in apposition, and pre- venting the protrusion of the abdominal viscera, than adhesive plaster; they should be passed through the skin only, and be supported by compresses and bandages. As peritonites may ensue, they require careful watching. In cases where the sheath of the rectus muscle has been wounded, inflammation of this structure has followed, and abscesses have been the result. These should be opened early. . „ , , , Wounds which penetrate the cavity of the abdomen are known by a protrusion of some of the viscera, and where this does not occur by the introduction of the finger, or a probe, and generally, but not always, by the extreme de- biUty and faintness of the patient. They are treated as superficial wounds, peritonitis being stdl more carefuUy guarded against. The intestines, if protruded, should be cleansed from all foreign matter, and then returned. Where this cannot be accomplished, the wound is to be dilated, and at its upper rather than its lower extremity. That portion of the intestine which has last protruded should be first returned, and the intestine before the ■ omentum. . . Wounds which injure some of the contained viscera. These accidents are distinguished by the protrusion of the wounded viscus, when the injury is at once obvious ; and where this is wanting, by the escape from the wound ol some of the contents or secretions of the viscus, and tlie