510 SURGEEY. penetrating wound of the chest, and which are aggravated in this case, we have a spitting of blood, unless the wound of the lung be very superficial indeed. The blood spat up is of a bright red colour, frothy, and mixed with bubbles of air; air mixed with blood may also escape from the external wound. Bleeding becomes, in this case, our principal remedy, as by it we accompUsh three objects, namely, lessen the quantity of blood circulating in the lung, thereby relieving the difficulty of respiration ; check the flow of blood from the wounded vessel by lessening the action of the heart and arteries, or by producing faint- ing ; and, lastly, provide against inflammation. As the lung is wounded, there is still greater danger from emphy- sema, as the air will escape from the wounded lung into the cavity of the chest, and thence over the body, and will also make its way into the cellular tissue of the lung, passing over to the lung of the opposite side, then com- pressing the air-cells, and impeding or whoUy stopping respiration. In deep wounds, emphysema of the lung is not so likely to take place as in superficial, as the quan- tity of blood efi"used into the cellular tissue of the lungs prevents the ingress of the air. Deep wounds, are, how- ever, more dangerous, from the larger blood-vessels being iniured. In cases of wounded lung, we have to guard against inflammation of the lung, at a more distant period. Gun-shot wounds of the lungs, if not immediately fatal, may be so ultimately, from hsetnorrhage arising when the sloughs are separating from the course of the baU, and fronT inflammation, or chronic disease of the organs supervening. , . , , Contusions of the thorax are seldom serious, except when some of the thoracic viscera have been injured. Some- times one or more of the ribs are fractured, either by violent blows or heavy bodies passing over the chest. The seventh, eighth, or ninth ribs are more frequently fractured than the others, from their greater length, and being less protected; 'they usually give way m frout ot their angles, between this poiut and their anterior extre- mities. As the broken ribs are moved in the act of respi- ration, the bony spiculse, if not previously driven into the lungs by the violence which caused the fracture, frequently wound these organs afterwards. In these cases, emphy-