700 SURGERY. and in the proper position; if raised too much, the saw will become locked, and if, on the contrary, depressed, the bone may become frac- tured before completely sawn through. The arteries are now to be secured; and first the femoral: it is found on the inner side of and close to the bone, and may be discovered, but with some difficulty, from its retracting into the tendinous canal, commonly called Hunter's canal; if so, the canal should be slit open, and the artery withdrawn and secured with the ligature; this being applied a sliort distance ai)ove its cut extremity. In applying the ligature, care should be taken that no branch is given off, a short distance above the point at which the vessel is tied, as otherwise, haemorrhage may proceed from the branch. This, if it exist, should be at once secured, or the fe- moral artery tied above its point of origin. The tourniquet may now be loosened, and all the bleeding arteries secured, a warm sponge being applied to the wound, and some moderate stimulants given to the patient to encourage the bleeding, and prevent the necessity of open- ing the wound after the stump has been dressed and the patient put to bed. One end of each ligature is to be cut short and the other brought out at the most depending part of the wound. The practice of cutting the ligatures short and healing the stump over them is now abandoned, as such proceeding is found to be followed by greater irritation, and exposes the patient to the opening of the wound at a future period. When the patient is faint, and the arteries cannot be discovered, it is better not to close the wound for some hours after the operation. Should the femoral vein bleed, a compress of lint should be applied to its extremity, and retained there for a short time, when the bleeding will cease. The same practice is to be adopted in cases of bleeding from the wound itself. Any nerves or tendons that project should be cut short; the edges of the wound are now to be brought together, and retained in apposition, by means of strips of adhesive plaster or one or two points of suture. The sutures are objectionable from the greater irritation they produce, and should not therefore be used, if adhesive strips can be appUed so as to ansvyer the purpose. The stump is now to be covered with a fold of lint wet with cold water, and supported by means of a roller applied from above downwards, so as to support the soft parts, and favour the covering of the end of the bone. Much difference of opinion exists, as to the direc- tion in which the edges of the wound after amputation should be brought together. Some prefer that from before backwards, as this affords a free exit to the discharge from the stump. Others object to this, as the posterior part of the wound is made to gape by the pressure of the stump on the pillow, and as the cicatrix is ever afterwards exposed to pressure from the end of the bone; these, therefore, prefer uniting the wound in the transverse direction in which the cicatrix is soon drawn l)y the action of the flexor muscles behind the extremity of the bone, and thus preserved from injury. The wound having been dressed, the patient is to be placed in bed, with the stump supported on a pillow of moderate height, and the tourniquet apphcd loosely round the limb, as a precautionary measure, to be tightened in case of necessity.