142 ANATOMY. longitudinal sinus and the Vena Galeni; from this spot it runs backwards and somewhat downwards to terminate in the torcular Herophili. The occipital sinuses (of which sometimes, however, there is only one,) run in the posterior edge of the falx minor ; they empty themselves into the torcular Herophili: they are very small, and sometimes communicate with the lateral sinuses at the anterior margin of the occipital fora- men, which in such cases ia almost entirely surrounded by them. . , . n xi. The lateral sinuses, of which the nght is generally the largest, run from the Torcular Herophili in a groove of the bone, to the posterior lacerated foramen of the base of the skull, terminating in the internal jugular veins. They run in the margin of the tentorium, and are consequently rather triangular in shape ; they receive the blood from the torcular HerophiU posteriorly; in nearly the middle of their course they receive the blood from the superior petrosal sinuses, soon after which they receive the blood from the internal ear by small veins, and from veins entering by the mastoid foramen and posterior condyloid foramen, and, iust before their termination, they receive the interior petrosal sinus as well as the inferior cerebral and cerebellar veins. In their course they groove the occipital, the parietal, and the temporal bones. . j , .i,. The sinuses which are more particularly situated at the base of the brain are the following: , ■^ e The cavernous sinuses are situated one at each side ot the sella turcica of the sphenoid bone. They are formed by a splitting of the dura mater into two layers, one of which is in contact with the bone, whdst the other arches over the contents of the sinus. Anteriorly it receives the ophthalmic vein, posteriorly it is continuous with the superior and inferior petrosal sinuses, whilst on its internal surface it receives the anterior and posterior cliuoid sinuses. The cavity of this sinus is intersected by a number of fibrous bands, which give it a cellular appearance, and it also con- tains the following structures, viz., the third, fourth, and onhthalmic division of the fiftli nerves, which he partially against and are partially inclosed within its external layer • * the order indicated, from above downwards; and the nternal carotid artery with the sixth cerebral nerve resting