BRA.CHIAL REGION. 349 neighbouring parts, more especially the deltoid muscle. An ascending branch proceeds from it along the bicipital groove, to supply the synovial membrane of the shoulder- joint. THE BRACHIAL REGION extends from the termination of the axilla to the elbow- joint, and comprises the greater part of the humerus, the brachial muscles, vessels, and nerves. On raising the integuments from oflF this region, some cellular tissue is brought into view, commonly called the superficial fascia. In it are contained some superficial veins and nerves; thus, on the outer side we find the cephaUc vein, and on the inner side the basihc. The superficial nerves are the internal cutaneous, small internal cutaneous, and intercostal humeral internally; on the outer side, is a cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve. Beneath these super- ficial parts, the muscles and deep-seated vessels and nerves of the arm are inclosed in a layer of fascia, named the brachial aponeurosis or fascia of the arm. This is much less dense than that which invests the forearm, and is in general but badly marked on the outer and posterior surface of the arm; internally, however, where it covers the brachial vessels and nerves, it is tolerably strong. It is attached superiorly and posteriorly to the spine of the scapula and infraspinatus muscles, from whence it de- scends, receiving an accession of fibres from the insertion ot the deltoid muscle ; internaUy it is continuous with the fascia, which forms the floor of the axilla, and is also attached to the tendons of the pectoralis major and latis- simus dorsi muscles. As the brachial aponeurosis de- scends It becomes increased in strength, and serves to nnd dowu the vessels, muscles, and nerves; towards the lower part of the arm it receives an addition of fibres from the coraco-brachialis muscle, and finally becomes impLuited in to the internal and external intei-muscular septa, bi^means of which It IS attached to the condyles of the humeri™ faceVrZ^ '1"'^ aponeurosis from the inner'sur- Sic SeZks:? xr'^„f.jrs-r :srE: