SURGERY. 614 secured. By these means, aided by compresses and bandages, if necessary, permanent extension is maintained for five weeks, after which period passive motion is to be resorted to. Many surgeons now use no straps, but simple extension of the limb, and then allow sUght motion for six to eight weeks, and, in ordinary language, make a letter V of the patient. A transverse fracture of the patella unites generally, if not always, by ligament; it should be our object to have this ligament as short as possible, as the future use of the limb is proportionate to its length. Longitudinal fractures of the patella are caused by direct violence. They are treated by placing the limb m the extended position, passing a roller round the joint, and then budding over this a laced knee-cap. This fracture unites by bone. Fractures of the tibia in its upper two thirds are generally transverse. There is nothing peculiar in their history, symptoms, or treatment. M'Intyre's or Liston's splint is the best instrument to use in their treatment. Fracture of the lower third of the tibia.—The tibia is most frequently broken in its lower third near the junc- tion of this with the middle third, the bone bemg here smaller than elsewhere, more superficial, and unsupported by the beUies of the muscles. The fracture is almost always oblique, running downwards and inwards, and hence is frequently converted into a compound fracture from the patient attempting to stand or wallc on the limb after the accident, and thus protruding the point of the upper portion of the bone through the skin. The fracture is at once recognised from the superficial coverings of the bone. The fibula is in general fractured at the same time. Fracture of the lower thh-d of the tibia is best treated on the double inchned plane, with the leg in a slightly depending position, so as to relax the gastrocuemii muscles. In these fractures, Mr. Greenough's cradle, or Mr. Luke's, is of great comfort to the patient, for thereby he can move freely in bed without disturbance of the limb. Fracture of the fibula.—Hhe fibula may be fractured in any part of its extent. In general it is broken about an inch and a half above the external malleolus. This is usually known by the name of Pott's fracture of the fibula, or Pott's dislocation of the ankle, being often accompanied