ANATOMY. 224 The thyro-epiglottideus seems to be but a few of the upper fibres of the thyro-arytenoideus muscle. The aryteno-epiglottideus superior is a very small and indistinct muscle, passing in the fold of mucous membrane, commonly known as the false chorda vocalis. The aryteno-epiglottideus inferior is a better developed muscle than the preceding, and by its action can diminish or alter the shape of the sacculus laryngis. From its having been most accurately described by Mr. Hilton it has received the name of Hilton's muscle. The arteries of the larynx are, the superior laryngeal or thyroid, from the external carotid ; and inferior laryngeal, from the subclavian. The mucous membrane of this organ is studded with numerous follicles, some of which have obtained the name of glands; some of these aggregated just above the epi- glottis, between it and the tongue, imbedded in some fat, form the so-called epiglottidean gland, whilst others, situated near the arytenoid cartilages, have been called the arytenoid glands. The nerves are chiefly from the pneumogastric, the superior laryngeal appearing to be a nerve of sensation, the inferior "laryngeal the true nerve of motion and of voice. The Trachea extends from the cricoid cartilage to the bronchi, from about the fourth cervical vertebra to oppo- site the third dorsal. It is covered anteriorly by the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and thyroid gland ; posteriorly it is in contact with the oesophagus; laterally it is bounded by the large vessels of the neck, the nervus vagus and sympathetic nerve, and in the chest is crossed by the left vena innominata, somewhat by the arteria innominata, and the arch of the aorta. Its figure is that of a cylindrical tube, rather flattened posteriorly, and diminishing in capacity as it descends. It is composed of from fifteen to twenty segments of cartilaginous rings, incomplete posteriorly, the space being filled up by a musculo-membranous substance: in the expanded state of the trachea the cartilages form two thirds of a circle ; when it is contracted or collapsed about three fourths. They are deepest in front, and differ from each other in depth and size: they are largest superiorly,