DISLOCATIONS. 645 the ankle of the dislocated limb and draw it over the other leg, or if the thigh be very large, behind tlie sound limb, when the head of the bone usually slips into tbe socket. Take care not to advance the leg too much, as the head of the bone would be forced behind the acetabulum into the sciatic notch, from which it would be extremely dilB- cult to remove it. This accident is termed the consecutive dislocation of the hip-joint. In the dislocation into the foramen ovale the head of the bone rests between the obturator hgament and obturator externus muscle, which is the only muscle relaxed in this dislocation. Two other modes of reducing this dislocation are resorted to and recommended by surgeons. One plan consists in placing a large bed-post between the thighs with the perineum well supported, then making a fulcrum of the post and extending the limb upon and around it. The other plan consists of using simple extension of the limb by means of pullies, so as to remove the bone from the obturator fossa and that then the muscles by their natural efforts and direc- tion, may restore the licad of the bone to its proper situation JJupuytren has described a congenital dislocation of the hip-joint in which the head of the femur on one or both sides IS dislocated on the dorsum of the ilium of the fcetus in utero. The femur becomes dislocated from disease, as in morbus coxarius. The brim of the acetabuhim is some- times fractured in conjunction with a dislocation of the head of the femur. The dislocation being reduced, the limb should be kept completely at rest, and compresses applied, so as to preserve the broken bones in appositioa until union has taken place. Some other rare dislocations ot the hip-joint have been met with by surgeons: viz dis- location downwards on the tuberosity of the ischium" dis location backwards on the spinous process of the ischium" and upwards and forwards between the anterior suS and anterior inferior spinous processes of the ilium IhdocaUon of the patella.-lh^ patella may be luxated in two directions, namely, outwards'and inwards Dislo- c^Uon outwards is much more frequent, being aused by the oblique direction inwards, in which ho rectus f nlris muscle descends to the patella, and the ligament'im pa eZ at the same time passing outwards; wlfen, therlre tli^ muscle contracts, it tends to bring all these pir'to a