SURGERY. 650 with the body, so as to relax the deltoid and supra-spina- tus muscles. Malce extension from the arm, and counter- extension from the scapula bandage. After the exten- sion has been made a few minutes, the surgeon should place his knee in the axilla, resting his foot on a chair on -which the patient sits, and raise his knee by extending his foot; and placing his hand at the same time on the acromion, he pushes it downwards, when the head of the bone usually slips into its place. If the dislocation be of long standing, the pulleys will be necessary. In recent dislocation, and especially in delicate persons, the reduc- tion may be effected by placing the knee in the axilla, and making, extension with one hand from the arm of the patient, whilst the other presses down the shoulders, or by placing the heel in the axilla, as follows: Lay the patient on his back, either on abed or sofa, and bring him near the edge of it; make extension from the arm by means of a wetted roller passed round it, sit on the edge of the bed, place your heel in the axilla, and extend the arm; the dislocation will be reduced in a few minutes. Another plan adopted by some is to make the patient lie down on a mattress; then the surgeon, standing behind his head, places one hand on the spine of the scapula to fix it, and with the other hand raises the arm of the patient upwards in a line with the body, and the head of the bone soon slips into its socket. Some practice this proceeding with the patient sitting up, and thus reduce the dislocation with great ease. In this dislocation the head of the humerus rests on the inferior or axillary border of the scapula, or rather be- tween it and the edge of the subscapularis, some of whose fibres are, in general, torn from the bone immediately beneath the neck of the scapula, having the long head of the triceps posterior to it. The capsular muscles of the joint are usually torn or much stretched, the deltoid and long head of the triceps are extended, the pectorahs major and latissimus dorsi relaxed. The circumflex nerve is not unfrequently lacerated, or otherwise injured, caus- ing a paralysis of the deltoid. Dislocation uptvards and fonoards under the pectoral nmscZes.—This accident takes place when the arm is thrown rather behind the centre of the trunk. Symptoint: