403 AHTERIA TIBIALIS POSTERIOK. aneurism in its lower part. For this purpose an incision,.about tliree inches in length, should be made over the course of the artery through the integuments and fascia; the muscles now- being separated the artery will be exposed, and may be secured, avoiding the nerve and venae comites. In some cases the anterior tibial artery terminates a little above the ankle; its place ou the dorsum of the foot is then supplied by the anterior peroneal artery. When such a variety exists, it is evident that a ligature on the anterior tibial artery will have no effect on an aneurism on the dorsum of the foot. When the leg is amputated a short distance below the tubercle of the tibia, some difficulty is often experienced in securing the anterior tibial artery from its re- tracting through the foramen in the interosseous membrane; the membrane should be divided, when the artery will be exposed, and may be easily secm-ed. AETERIA TIBIALIS POSTERIOR. This is much larger than the anterior; it proceeds from the bifurcation of the popliteal artery downwards, and inwards along the posterior surface of the deep muscles of the leg, and beneath the deep fascia to the interval between the os calcis and the internal malleolus; it here turns forwards, enters the sole of the foot between the two heads of the abductor pollicis, and terminates bv dividing into the internal and external plantar arteries. In the upper and middle thirds of the leg the posterior tibial artery lies deep, being covered by the gastrocnemius, plantaris, and soleus muscles, and the deep fascia; in the lower third it is superficial, being covered only by the mteguments and superficial and deep fascia. It rests first on the tibialis posticus, then on the flexor communis, and beneath this on some fat and cellular tissue, which separate it from the tibia and the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. The posterior tibial artery is accompanied throughout by two venae comites, one on each side, and by the posterior tibial nerve. This nerve, the continuation of the internal pophteal, Ues to the outer side of the artery and between the internal malleolus and heel,—is nearer to the latter than to the artery. In the fossa between the malleolus mternus and os calcis the order of parts from the one eminence to the other is, tibialis posticus tendon, flexor longus tendon, posterior tibial artery and vens^ comites, posterior tibial nerve, flexor longus pollicis tendon, plantans tendon, and tendo AchilUs