320 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. one or two which perforate the malar bone and anastomose with the deep temporal arteries. 2. Arteria centralis retinae, small in size, arises near the optic foramen, penetrates the optic nerve, and runs forward in its centre to the interior of the eye; on arriving at the posterior part of the vitreous humour, it sends off numerous branches, which form or supply the inner layer of the retina. A small branch perforates the hyaloid membrane, passes forwards through the vitreous humour as far as the capsule of the lens. When the optic nerve is cut across, this artery forms a dark spot in the centre, which was formerly called the porus opticus. 3. Arteria supraorbitalis arises as the ophthalmic artery crosses the optic nerve, and is of considerable size; it ascends forwards, runs between the periosteum and levator palpebrae superioris muscle, accompanied by the frontal nerve, passes out through the super- ciliary notch, ascends on the forehead as high as the vertex, anastomosing with the branches of the facial and temporal arteries. Besides its terminating branches, the supraorbital artery sends off several branches to the parts in its immediate neighbourhood; none of them are of importance. 4. Arterice ciliares consist of three sets, the short, long, and anterior. The short, irregular as to origin, are from ten to fifteen in number; they pass along with the optic nerve, some above, others below it, accompanied by the ciliary nerves: by dividing, they increase in number as they approach the globe of the eye, and perforate the posterior part of the sclerotic coat at about two lines distance from the entrance of the optic nerve; immediately after entering the eye they divide into numerous little branches, which anastomose wonderfully together, forming a beautiful network in the choroid, under the name of tunica ruyscMana, and communicate slightly with the arteries of the iris. The long ciliary arteries, two in number, perforate the back part of the globe of the eye, pass forwards, one on each side, between the sclerotic and choroid coats, then perforate the ciliary ligament to reach the iris, where they form the chief part of the circulus arteriosus major. The anterior ciliary branches are given off from the muscular arteries of the ophthalmic; they perforate the sclerotic coat about one or two lines distant from the cornea, and terminate in the iris. The anterior ciliary arteries form a vascular zone round the cornea, which is particularly manifest in iritis and sclerotitis. 5. Arterice musculares, irregular as to number and size, are dis- tributed to the muscles of the orbit, and give off the anterior ciliary branches. 6. Arterial ethmoidales, two in number, arise from the ophthalmic artery on the inside of the optic nerve, pass, one through the foramen orbitale internum posterius, the other through the fora- men orbitale internum anterius, along with the nasal nerve; they sparingly supply the dura mater, then perforate the cribriform