4 ANATOMY. sequestrum, it is found to be incased by a new bony sub- stance, supposed to be deposited by the periosteum. If the periosteum be removed, and part of the surface of the bone be destroyed, the vessels of the internal parts have the power of throwing out gelatinous fluid which becomes cartilage and then bone, and may be entirely incased in the dead substance. Thus it appears that the vessels, either of the periosteum, the bone itself, or medullary membrane, have each the power of secreting a nidus for bony deposits. The mode of reunion of bone is the following: during the first week or more, blood is extravasated, and appears to produce cohesion of the surrounding parts; in about ten days the redness disappears, the colouring matter of the blood is absorbed, and coagulated lymph remains; and at the same time the periosteum is found soft but thickened, and increased in vascularity, and the ends of the bones are inflamed, softened, and vascular, with their edges rounded off. This lymph becomes almost of a cartilaginous consistence, and is subsequently replaced by osseous matter on its surface. Similar changes take place internally in the fluid thrown out by the medullary membrane. In the succeeding stages, the ossific matter acquires increased thickness, becomes more firm, and is found gradually to unite the entire ends of the bones ; and the surrounding cellular substance appears to form a new periosteum. In the last stage of restoration the superabundant ossific matter or callus is absorbed, the medullary canal is re- stored to its former state, and the irregularities on the bone are removed. Bones, like all other structures in the body, are always undergoing some renewal and absorption, which is shown by feeding an animal upon madder, and watching the changes produced in bone by it. In old persons the cavity in the cylindrical bones becomes gradu- ally larger, and the walls proportionally more compact. The formation of the flat bones of the cranium is some- what different fi-om that of the others. They are produced by a deposit of ossific matter between membranes, gra- dually extending from a central point to the circumference. The radiating fibres are connected together by transverse threads, which produce a spider-web appearance, and the intervals between the fibres are the passages for the vessels;