608 STJRGEUY. much thickening of the periosteum and surrounding soft parts, the bone is larger than natural, more rounded, and but indistinctly marked with the usual eminences and de- pressions, and its medullary canal is closed. After some time the canal is re-established, and the bone differs but little from its natural state. It should be carefully borne in mind that when inflammation of the limb has taken place, this should be removed by the apphcation of leeches, cold lotions, and other means, before we resort to the use of splints and bandages; the limb should be placed during this treatment in the position easiest to the parts, and kept as quiet as possible. Having now laid down the great prin- ciples to be observed in the treatment of fractures, we pro- ceed to the consideration of particular fractures. Fractures of the ossa nasi are always caused by direct violence: the displacement may be trifling, or so great as to produce considerable deformity. Treatment: The bones are to be placed in situ by means of a female silver ca- theter, or other resisting instrument, passed into the nasal cavity, and supported by compresses of hnt, or an elastic tube introduced into the nose. Some consider that these bodies are not required, and are productive of irritation, and therefore recommend the fracture to be healed with- out any artificial support. It occasionally happens that the crista galli of the ethmoid bone is driven upwards into the brain by the violence that has caused the fracture. It is possible that the crista galli may be drawn down by means of a forceps introduced into the nose. Any symptoms of inflammation of the brain or its mem- branes should be actively treated. Fractures of the loioerjaw.—This bone is always broken by direct violence. It may be fractured at the symphysis, or the body, or the ramus. Fracture at the symphysis is exceedingly rare. This bone is most frequently fractured in the body immediately in front of the insertion of the masseter muscle. The fracture is in general easily recog- nized by passing the fingers along the base of the jaw ex- ternally and tlie mouth internally. Crepitus may also be felt by moving the fractured portions one against the other. Treatment: The bone being placed in situ, a flat piece of cork is to be placed betv^een the jaws of the afi'ected side; a pasteboard sphnt, or one made with gutta percha, pre-