ANEURISM. 663 tumour by each systole of the heart, it gradually enlarges by the giving way of the parietes of the sac, and their gradual absorption. Each structure becomes absorbed as it presents itself, bone, cartilage, or membrane. Car- tilage is not so rapidly removed as bone, from its yielding to the pressure of the tumour, and being less highly organised than osseous substance. The tumour is, how- ever, prevented from bursting by the adhesive inflam- mation preceding the process of absorption, and enlisting m Its service each successive structure, until it contracts adhesion to the skin itself. The tumour differs now in many particulars from those present in the first or early stage. As the blood passes into the interior of the enlarged sac, and becomes more and more removed from the agency of the heart, it coagulates, and deposits in the aneunsmal' cavity successive layers of coagulated fibrin, by which the tumour becomes firm, yielding but little to pressure either apphed to it or the artery above it, and loses its distinct pulsation, and that remarkable distension of it at each systole of the heart. StiU, as some fluid blood is contained in the aneunsmal sac, it is capable of a slight diminution ot size, on pressure being properly appUed. The in- teguments now become partially discoloured, and the surrounding nerves being compressed by the swelline: the patient begins to suff-er the most excruciating pains shooting up and down the limb in the course of the nerves. The parts below the tumour become swollen and edematous, and the veins distended from the pressure of the tumour on the absorbent and venous trunks The patient s limb, if it be one of the lower extremities that is the seat of the disease, "feels asleep," to make use of a common expression, and the integuments assume a bluish red appearance, and diminish in temperature. It is in this stage of the disease that the case most frequ nt y falls under the observation of the sur-eon "'^quenciy Should the disease be neglected, it rapidly advances to Its hird or last stage. The tumour, now meetb" with but little resistance from the integuments, spSs u evetv direction, its interior becomes filled with iLe masselTf coaguk. It loses its pulsation, and gradually makes its way through the skin. This n« ^^'y "laivts its hernmPQ r^,..h V i i ^ disease advances, becomes much discoloured; from a slight blush first