656 SURGERY. operations h&ve been- recommended to effect reduction when other means have not succeeded, such as division of the lateral ligament, the cutting across the long flexor tendon, or removing the head of the metacarpal bone; but these plans have been so frequently followed by serious consequences, as to render their adoption in- judicious. Dislocation of the second phalanx will be best reduced by grasping firmly the back of the first phalanx with your fingers, and placing the thumb on the fore part of the dislocated phalanx, then bending it on the first as much as you can. Dislocations of the lower jaw.—The lower jaw is subject to two species of dislocation, the complete and partial. Complete dislocation is when both condyles are thrown forwards into the zygomatic fossa. This accident is caused by falls or blows on the chin, when the mouth is widely opened, or by opening the mouth widely, as in yawning, laughing, &c. Symptoms: The mouth is widely opened and cannot be closed; the lower teeth are on a line anterior to the upper; the saliva flows from the mouth in consequence of the irritation of the parotid gland, and the patient being unable to swallow it. There is a depression in front of the meatus auditorius, from the absence of the condyloid process, the ramus of the jaw inclines upwards and forwards, and the coronoid process may be felt in the interior of the mouth. The face appears elongated, and the patient complains of pain, from the stretching of the inferior dental nerve, and the muscles attached to the jaw. Reduction: Wrap a silk handkerchief round each thumb, place these in the mouth on the last molar teeth, depress the jaw posteriorly whilst you raise it anteriorly, and, at the same time, press it backwards. In less recent dislocations it will be neces- sary to place two corks, one on each side, between the molar teeth of the upper and lower jaws, and then elevate the chin anteriorly. AVhen the dislocation is still more difficult of reduction, the patient should be placed in the recumbent position, when more force may be exercised in raising the chin. In this dislocation the condyles are lodged in the zygomatic fossa, and the coronoid processes