REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. 308 The three remaining branches of the external carotid are given oflf in the parotid gland ; we shall therefore now consider the parotid region. PAROTIB REGION. This is a quadrilateral space, situated between the ear and mastoid process, bounded in front by the ramus of the lower jaw and masseter muscle, above by the zj'goraa, and below by the stylo-maxillary ligament and a line drawn from the angle of the jaw to the mastoid process, which separate it from the digastric space, properly so called, and behind by the mastoid process and meatus auditorius externus. In it are contained the parotid gland, and imbedded in its substance the portio dura, the external jugular vein, the external carotid artery, and the origins of the temporal, internal, maxillary, and trans- versalis faciei arteries; and more deeply seated the internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, the eighth, ninth, and sympathetic nerves, with some branches of the inferior maxillary nerve. The parotid gland lodged in this space is covered by the skin and a few fibres of the platysma, immediately beneath which lies the auriculo-paritidean nerve, a branch of the cervical plexus, which ascends to the integuments of the temporal region. One or two lym- phatic glands are occasionally met with here, immediately in front of the external ear. These sometimes become diseased and enlarged, and by pressing on the parotid gland, seem to occupy its situation. Such affections have been mistaken for disease of the parotid gland itself. Underneath these, the parotid gland is covered by a dense layer of the cervical fascia, which gives to the surface of the gland a flattened or slightly convex shape, and ascends on its cutaneous surface to be attached to the zygoma; posteriorly, this layer of fascia is attached to the external meatus auditorius, and is lost on the mastoid muscle. The cervical fascia not only covers the gland on its cutaneous surface, but sends processes into its interior, which separate it into distinct portions, and give to it the lobulated appearance for which it is so remarkable. The deep surface of the gland is not covered by the fascia, but sinks irregularly into the several intervals met with at the base of the skull, between the nerves, vessels, &c.