294 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. The carotid artery may be tied in its first or deep stage, for the cure of aueurism affecting it in its superficial stage, also when wounded, and for the cure of aneurism of the arteria innominata, in the distal operation. The operation is performed in the following manner: Place the patient in the recumbent posture, then, turning the head towards the opposite side, and but moderately extending the neck, make an incision, about three inches in length, through the skin and platysma, along the inner edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle, commencing inferiorly close to the sternum. Cut through the fascia, avoiding any veins that may be present. The inner edge of the sterno-mastoid is exposed, as also the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles, with a few branches of the descendens noni nerve; draw the mastoid muscle to the outer side, the others to the inner or tracheal side, or, if necessary, cut across some of the fibres, on a director passed beneath them. The sterno-thyroid, from its greater breadth, overlaps the artery, and will most likely require division. The muscles having been drawn out of the way, or divided if necessary, the sheath is brought into view, having the omo-hyoid muscle crossing it at the upper part of this region. Open into the sheath by pinching it up between the fingers, making a small incision into it with the knife held in the horizontal direction: into this opening introduce a director, and on this divide the sheath to the required extent. The carotid artery will be now exposed, with the vein and nerve; detach the artery gently from its surrounding connections, with the end of a probe or director, and pass the aneurism needle under it from without inwards; in doing so, avoid the par vagum and vein to the outer side, the sympathetic nerve, inferior thyroid artery posteriorly, and the recurrent nerve on the inner side. If the left carotid be the subject of the operation, the thoracic duct and oesophagus must also be avoided. The internal jugular vein has been found to embarrass the surgeon much, from its alternately flapping over and receding from the artery, a motion communicated to it by the regurgitation from the right auricle, as well as from the act of respiration, all the large veins at the root of the neck being emptied when inspiration takes place, and being on the contrary distended during the act of expiration. The extent of this embarrassment has been variously stated by different operators, some asserting that it has been considerable, whilst others assert that the vein gave them little or no trouble. In fact, it must vary according to the situation where the artery is tied; thus, it is likely to give but Uttle trouble on the right side, at the lower part of the neck, whilst, in almost every other situation, it cannot fail to be trouble- some. To remove the cause of annoyance, the vein should be compressed both above and below. The ligature having been passed round the artery, without including any of the surrounding i)arts, and properly secured, one end may be cut short, and the other allowed to hang out of the wound,