652 Dislocation of both radius and ulna backwards.—This is the most frequent displacement of the elbow. It is caused by the person, when falling, putting out his hand to save himself; but the arm not being perfectly extended, the whole weight of the body is thrown upon the radius and ulna, and they are forced behind the axis of the humerus. . . „ , Symptoms: There is a considerable projection, formed posteriorly by the ends of the bones, and above this a depression; there is also another projection on the tront of the ioint, formed by the end of the humerus, and below this a depression; on each side of the olecranon there is a hollow. The forearm is shortened and m a state of supination, and cannot be pronated, and is fixed at nearly a right angle. , • ^ t. Reduction.■ Place the patient sittmg on a chair take hold of his wrist and put your knee m front ot the elbow-ioint; then bend the forearm, and at the same time press upon the radius and ulna with the knee, so as ■ to separate them from the humerus, and throw the coronoid process of the ulna from the posterior hunieral fossa, where it is lodged. Whilst the pressure is kept up by the knee, tlie arm is to be forcibly, at the same time gradually, bent, and the bones will sbp into their places After the reduction, the elbow should be kept flexed In this dislocation, the coronoid process is lodged in the posterior humeral fossa, the head of the radius hes on the back of the external condyle. The hum rus descends on the anterior surface of the radms and ulna, as far as the insertions of the bracliialis anticus and biceps wilf admit of This accident is frequently confounded with fracture of the humerus a little above the elbcm. Some surgeons have recourse to simple extension and state that it^s the most natural and ^^^^^^ific mode of reduction: but the plan above memtioned is most success- ful where assistance cannot be had. Lateral dislocation of the elbotc-The radms and u^a may be thrown to either side; the displacement is known bv the great projection on either side of the joint, in the luxation outwards the coronoid process res s on the posterior surface of the external condyle, and the radius forms a projection to its outer side; in the dislocation