DISEASES OF BONES. 633 Rachitis or Rickets.—This term is applied to a diseased state of tiie bones, in which there is a deficiency of earthy matter, and they are consequently soft, yielding, aud non- resisting: this condition is attended with an unhealthy state of the constitution, evidenced by the countenance, general emaciation, and tumid abdomen. The bones yield to the weight and pressure of the body, and there is con- siderable distortion. After some years this condition is altered, and the bones become hard and compact, but stOl retaining their early form. The treatment must be directed towards improving the general health, as by light nutritious diet and wholesome air. The limbs should not be called upon for over-exertion, and as the disease shows itself in children, they should be encouraged rather to crawl along than endeavour to get about by exercise in the erect posture. The preparations of iron seem to improve the assimilative functions, aud are thus found often useful. Mollities ossium, named also Malacosteon and Osteo- malakia, is a morbid softening of the bones produced by absorption of earthy matter, and indeed of the natural animal substance of the bone. It occurs more frequently in females of the middle age, and, unlike the former, is attended with considerable pam. Medicines have little influence over it; they can palliate and assist dietetic remedies, but still the patient generally progresses to a premature death. Frayilitas ossium is a term applied to the state of bones m which, from slight exertion, they give way and break' Ihis IS ordinarily referred to a superabundance of earthy matter, but as often proceeds from excessive softenino- or trom osteo-sarcomatous disease. The bones have been remarked for yielding readily after the system had been long disturbed by carcinomatous disease. The consti tution is ordinarily too much impaired for any benefit to be derived from the use of medicine. Many other diseases of bone are enumerated by authors and some already mentioned are designated by other terms 1 shall briefiy enumerate them. .y utr leims. Osteoma (Miller) is an hypertrophy of bone of creat ttt 2'te°''Sr''?'""^' '^"f degenenufngS ^rLommenieJr' " '^''^ 27 §