MALIGNANT DISEASES. 731 the eye. The pupil becomes dilated, and immoveable, and instead of having its natural deep black colour, it is ot a dark amber, sometimes of a greenish hue. The change ot colour becomes gradually more and more remarkable, and at length is discovered to be occasioned by a solid substance, which proceeds from the bottom of the eye towards the cornea The surface of this substance is generally rugged and unequal, and ramifications of the central artery of the retina may sometimes be seen running across it. Ihe anterior surface of the new mass at length advances as tar forwards as the iris, and the amber or brown appearance ot the pupil has in this stage been known to mislead surgeons into the supposition of there being a cataract, and induce them to attempt couching. The disease continuing to increase, the eyeball loses its natural figure, and assumes an irregular knobby appearance. The sclerotic also loses its white colour, and becomes of a dark blue or livid hue. The cornea soon sloughs, and the diseased fungus pro- trudes. According to Mr. Travers, the lens and cornea are the only textures of the eye in which fungoid disease may not originate. An eye thus affected should be re- moved as soon as possible, in order to prevent the optic nerve and brain taking on the same diseased action. Melanosis may also be called a malignant affection, and consists of a deposit of a black carbonaceous substance in the tissue of organs. It usually attacks internal organs, seldom appearing externally. It is wholly beyond the control of art. It sometimes appears as a subcutaneous affection in the form of small encysted tumours, containing a dark reddish fluid. It sometimes attacks the eye of young persons, in winch case, extirpation should be early performed; for this is perhaps the only part of the body where an operation can be resorted to with a hope of success. Gelatiniform or Colloid cancer, so named from the gelatinous or glue like fluid found in the cells of the parts affected, has only been recognised as a distinct variety of malignant disease during the last few years. It appears seldom separate, being found associated with carcinoma, or with the soft cancer. It is found attacking the 'stomach, liver, omentum, and occasionally other parts.