SURGERY. 716 neous exhalation. In some families, the formation of stone appears to be hereditary, and especially in those who are also subject to attacks of gout. A calculus in the bladder has then either descended into it from one of the kidneys, or has formed within it around some foreign body, that has served as a nucleus for the deposit of the calculous matter. A stone in the bladder is usually attended with the following symptoms: a fre- quent desire to pass water; acute pain in the glaus penis and course of the urethra; a sudden stoppage of the flow of urine from the falling of the stone against the neck of the bladder, if the patient be in the erect posture; and great suffering at the same time from the bladder con- tracting around the stone, producing what is called a fit of the stone; the urine is frequently mixed with clots of blood especially after exercise, and if the disease have been of long continuance, it will be of a whitish colour, and mixed with flakes of matter. There is some irritability of the rectum, and general constitutional disturbance. In children the prepuce becomes elongated from their con- stantly pulling at it, and not unfrequently a prolapsus ani exists. After some time patients learn to avoid making urine in the ei'ect posture, and adopt the horizontal, lying either on the back, or on one side. As most if not all these symptoms may be present without a stone being in the bladder, as, for example, in enlargement of the prostate gland, particularly of the middle lobe, fungous tumours of the bladder, or even an inflammation of its mucous membrane, no surgeon is confident of the presence of a calculus until he has, by sounding, ascertained its presence distinctly. This is efi'ected by passing the sound into the bladder and striking the stone. Should the calculus not be discovered at first, the instrument should be moved from side to side, and the position of the patient changed; thus, if he has been first sounded in the erect position without success, he should be placed in the recumbent, and vice vers^. As the stone sometimes lodges in the "bas fond" of the bladder, and thus may be passed over by the in- strument, the finger should be introduced into the rectum, and the calculus, if present, pushed upwards, so as to come in contact with the souud. A calculus has sometimes