LAEYNX, TRACHEA, AND BRONCHI. 225 thinner and nearer inferiorly, excepting the last, which is the deepest of all,- they are united together by perpen- dicular hgamentous fibres. The substance which completes the rings posteriorly is fibro-muscular. The fibres are connected transversely with the edges or ends of the cartilaginous rings; longitudinally, they descend from the cricoid cartilage to the bronchi! The lining mucous membrane of the trachea is continuous from the upper part of the larynx to the minutest rami- fications of the bronchi. It is always moist, soft, and elastic; is thinner than in the larynx, and gradually more so as it passes into the ramifications of the bronchi. The bronchi are formed by the bifurcation of the trachea opposite the third dorsal vertebra. ' The right bronchus is larger than the left, and is shorter, reaching the lung on a line with the fourth dorsal vertebra. It passes under the arch of the vena azygos, behind the vena cava superior. The left bronchus passes under the arch of the aorta accompanied by the left pulmonary artery and corres- ponding veins. The structure of the bronchi is similar to that of the trachea. They divide and subdivide into numerous rami- fications, till they appear to pass in a fine ligamentous tissue. The thjroid gland, or more properly body, is situated on the front of the neck, beneath the sterno-hyoid and sterno- thyroid muscles, cervical fascia and integuments. It con- sists of two lateral lobes, connected in the middle by a portion of less depth, named the isthmus, which lies upon the third ring of the trachea; each lateral portion extends upwards to the side of the thyroid cartilage, and down wards as far as the fifth or sixth ring of the trachea It IS convex anteriorly, concave posteriorly; of a duskv-red colour; composed of a number of cells, containing gene- rally a viscid fluid ; and is very copiously supplied with blood-vesse s from the superior and inferior thyroid arteries on each side, the former being from the external ca o d the latter rom the subclavian; and sometimes an azygo branch in the centre, given off from the arch of the aoTa It has no excretory tube, and its exact use is unknown 10ยง