127 MUSCLES OF MAIE PERINiEUM. verse processes of the four supe- rior lumbar, and sometimes the last dorsal vertebrae, also the inner surface of the posterior half of the last rib. Use. To bend the spine late- rally, depress the lowest rib, and support the spine. Psoas pakvus. Or. Side of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrse. Ins. Linea ileo-pectinea, fas- cia iliaca, and fascia lata, behind the femoral vessels: sometimes wanting. Use. To bend the body for- wards, and make tense the crural arch. Psoas jiagutjs. Or. Sides of the bodies of the last dorsal, and from the bodies and transverse processes of all the lumbar ver- tebra, also from the interverte- bral substance. Ins. Inferior part of the lesser trochanter of the femur. Use. To bend the body for- wards, or to bend the thigh upon the body, and rotate the thigh outwards, and when the thigh is fixed to raise the body from the recumbent postnre. Iliacus inteenus. Or. Trans- verse process of the last lumbar vertebra, inner margin of three anterior fourths of the crista Hii, and its two anterior spinous processes and intervening notch, the brim of the acetabulum, the capsular ligament, iliac fossa, and iliac fascia. Ins. In common with the tendon of the psoas maguus; the inferior fibres are inserted into the anterior and inner sur- face of the femur, below the trochanter minor. Use. To co-operate with the former. MUSCLES OF THE Sphincter ani. Or. Ano- coccygeal ligament. Ins. Into the raphe, super- ficial fascia, and common central point of the perineum. Use. To close the anus and depress the bulb of the urethra. Sphincter internus en- circles the lower part of rectum, merely to close the anus. Erector penis. Or. Inner surface of the tuber ischii, and from the insertion of the great or inferior sciatic ligament. Ins. Fibrous membrane of the cms penis. Use. To draw the penis down and compress its veins, so as to produce the enlargement. male perineum. Accelerator tiring. Or. Prom the central point of the perineum, and fi'om a tendinous raphe extending forwards from it. Ins. By three sets of fibres on each side. The most posterior are mserted into the rami of the pubis, and deep perineal fascia, beneath the symphysis. Another set smTound the bulb of the urethra, meeting on its upper part, and surrounding it, the most anterior wind round the corpora cavernosa, to be inserted on their upper part, just where the penis m a flaccid state bends upon itself. Use. To expel tlie semen and unne, and distend the corpus