DISLOCATIONS. 641 circumstances conspire to render tlie reduction more difficult. The capsular ligament was formerly supposed to oppose the reduction of a dislocation ; this is fouud not to be the case, as that structure is always extensively torn. When a dislocation has been left unreduced, a new joint is formed for the head of the bone displaced, the old socket becoming absorbed or filled up. Dislocations are, in general, reduced by manual extension, but, when this ■ cannot be accomplished, the pulleys are resorted to, and the patient weakened by bloodletting, and the adminis- tration of tartar emetic, tobacco-enemata, &c. ; but during the last year or two chloroform has superseded all other means resorted to, for overcoming muscular rigidity. The pulleys are to be preferred in the reduction of the disloca- tions of Ihe larger articulations, for by their use the ex- tending force is rendered more constant and regular, by which the opposing muscles are at length overpowered. Dislocations are most usually confounded with fractures. They may be distinguished by their peculiar and the fol- lowing general characters : in dislocations the mobility of the limb is less than natural, in fractures greater; there is crepitus in fractures, none in dislocations, excepting a grating of the synovia, which soon disappears in moving the limb ; in fractures the deformity is easily removed, but soon returns, unless prevented by appropriate treatment; in dislocations the deformity is removed with difficulty, but is not liable to return, if the limb be kept quiet. Fractures occur generally in adult and advanced life, dislocations in younger subjects. Bislocafions of the hip-joint.—The head of the femur may be dislocated in at least four directions, viz. Upwards and backwards, on the dorsum of the ilium. Backwards into the sciatic notch. Upwards forwards on the horizontal ramus of the puhes. Downwards amiforivards into tlie foramen ovale. Of twenty dislocations of the hip, twelve are on the dorsum of the dium, five into the sciatic notch, one on the pubes, and two into the foramen ovale. Dislocation upwards and backwards, or on the dorsum of thedimn.-Causes : hdls on the outer and lower part of the hmb (generally the external condyle of the femur) while the hmb IS in a state of adduction, and brought slightly forwards.