SURGEEY. 688 men, and thorax, and fragility of the bones. The patient often dies from disease of the internal organs. TUMOURS OF THE SALIVARY GLANDS. These glands are subject to enlargement, and the sub- maxillary most frequently. The parotid gland is liable to two species of induration, one, more common in the lymphatic glands about it; the other, a genuine induration of the parotid itself. The tumour of the lymphatic glands may be distinguished by its smoothness, roundness, hardness, and freedom from pain; it often suppurates, and sometimes may require extir- pation. Scirrhous induration of the parotid gland begins deeply, and is attended with pain from the pressure on the neigh- bouring parts; it also interferes with deglutition, some- times ulcerates, and has killed by the pressure on the large vessels. The only remedy for it is extirpation, an opera- tion which few would like to venture upon, on account of the important relations of this part. The submaxillar]/ gland is often enlarged from cold, sore throat, measles, but which easily subsides. Scirrhus of this gland is distinguished by its size, hardness, and pain, gradual increase, and impediment to deglutition. This disease requires extirpation by the knife; the sublingual glands in some few cases have been affected with scirrhous enlargement. TUMOURS OF THE THYROID GLAND. This gland is liable to two kinds of enlargement, one named goitre, the other permanent scirrhus. Goitre or bronchocele is a smooth soft tumour, not dis- coloured, not tender nor painful, causing little inconve- nience except from its size. Scirrhous thyroid.—This is a hard tumour of a part of the thyroid, which grows slowly and is not troublesome for some years. Increasing in size and hardness, it be- comes painful, compresses the trachea, oesophagus, and ves- sels of the neck, aud produces difficult respiration. Some- times it ulcerates, forms a cancerous sore, and becomes fatal. It does not yield to medicine, but requires a sur- "•ical operation for "its removal; aud which is one of the