204 ANATOMY. is inwards and slightly forwards, arching a little superiorly, thus presenting a slight concave direction inferiorly. Its length is about an inch, but is somewhat longer inferiorly in consequence of the obhque position of the membrana tympani. Its broadest partis external, the narrowest in the middle. The integument lining this meatus is studded with a number of ceruminous glands, which secrete the pecuhar thick fluid called wax of the ear, and at the outer part with a number of hairs. This passage is separated from the internal ear by the membrana tympani. i j , The membrana tympani is nearly circular, attached by its circumference to a bony ring. It consists of three layers the outer one a continuation of the common in- tegument, the inner one continuous with the mucous membrane of the tympanum; the middle one is fibrous, and is the proper membrane. Its fibres converge from the circumference to the centre. It is concave externally, convex internally. Its direction is obhque, as it looks downwards, outwards, and forwards ; to the centre ot it internally, the long handle of the malleus is attached. The tympanum, or drum of the ear, is a narrow cavity lined with mucous membrane, continuous with that from the Eustachian tube, bounded externally by the membrana tympani, posteriorly by the mastoid process and cells and internally by the labryinth. On its inner wall, about the Centre, a prominence is seen, called th^ promontory; above this is a foramen, closed by membrane m the receu state, named fenestra ovalis, which communicates tl^^ vestibule. Below the promontory, and more concealed by it, is a round aperture, likewise closed m the recent state by membrane, fenestra rotunda; it is iii/'elf ith the scala tympani. Along the posterior wall, behind the promontory, we find a little bony projection, named the pyramid; it presents a little orifice at its apex which transmits the tendon of the stapedius muscle, the body ot which is lodged in the bone ; beneath this, and behmd it, is a little foramen, which transmits the chorda tympani; superiorly and posteriorly is the opening from the mastoid ^^^Al'onc the anterior part of the tympanum we meet with the glenoid fissure, which gives lodgment to the processus