616 SURGERY, the stretch, to draw inwards the external malleolus, and force outwards the upper end of the lower fractured por- tion; for, if this be not attended to, the fibula will become consolidated with the tibia, and thus the mortice-shaped cavity between these bones rendered too wide for the astra- galus ; the joint is thus rendered loose and insecure, and the patient is constantly exposed to accidents of the articu- lation. Some surgeons employ a splint on each side, with a support for the foot. Fracture of the clavicle.—This bone is frequently frac- tured in consequence of its being so much exposed, and having to support the weight of the shoulder and arm. It is most frequently fractured near its centre, where the bone is weakest, least supported by muscles, and suffers most from the two arches, of which the bone is composed, meeting here. The injury is produced by falls on the shoulder, or by direct violence; it is at once recognised by the projection of the fractured portions beneath the skin. The fracture is in general oblique, running down- wards and inwards; it is always attended with much dis- placement, as the shoulder, falling inwards from wanting the support of the clavicle, drags the outer portion with it, which is thus overlapped by the inner or sternal portion. The treatment of this fracture resolves itself into the raising of the shoulder, and with it the displaced portion of the clavicle to a level with the sternal portion, and re- taining them so by means of artificial support. This is best effected by means of a pad placed in the axilla, and a bandage passing round the trunk and injured extremity in such a manner as to keep back the weight of the shoulder and support the arm. The bandage, from its crossing in front and behind the patient, is named the figure-of-eight bandage. Different instruments have been recommended for the treatment of this fracture, but all act on the same principle as the bandage. That recommended by Sir A. Cooper is perhaps the best. The acromial end of the clavicle, when fractured, pre- sents little deformity from this portion of the bone being confined by ligaments. Fractures of the scajmla are extremely rare. Tlie neck of the bone is sometimes broken in falls on the shoulder. In this accident the arm droops, and presents many of the