SURGEKY. 566 and the wound dressed from the bottom, a catheter being retained in the urethra, so as to prevent the urine passing through the opening in perineo, if the patient do not suffer too much from its presence. As these abscesses frequently cause retention of urine before bursting, an accurate ex- amination should be made whenever they are suspected to exist. Hernia humoralis {Testitis or Orchitis) appears in the advanced stages of gonorrhoea, when the discharge is rather of a gleety description, and is apparently about to disappear; but it sometimes comes on earlier if irritating injections be employed. It has been mu»h disputed whether this is a specific affection of the testes or a purely inflam- matory one. The latter opinion is that geuerally received, the disease being attributed to an extension of the inflam- mation from the urethra, along the vas deferens, to the testis. The disease usually commences with pain in the course of the vas deferens, and some swelling and tender- ness in the spermatic cord; obtuse pains soon appear in the epididymis and testis, followed by acute inflammation of these parts. The pain now becomes more severe, and constitutional symptoms supervene; and, on examination, the epididymis and testis are found much enlarged, par- ticularly the former, and are exceedingly tender to the touch ; the testis retains somewhat of its natural shape, being flattened at the sides, and is exceedingly hard and tense; the scrotum becomes red, and its temperature is increased. Only one gland is afi'ected at a time. There is pain in the course of the spermatic cord, extending to the lumber region, general febrile disturbance, with nausea or vomiting. The treatment consists in enjoining strict rest, and the supporting the testis: the application of leeches, or opening the veins of the scrotum; fomentations, emetics, and pur- gatives ; and, if the inflammation be very acute, the abstrac- tion of blood from the arm. Cupping on the loins is also serviceable. By this treatment the inflammation subsides in the course of a few days, but leaving some hardness of the testis and epididymis, which is long in disappearing. The use of camphorated mercurial ointment will expedite the removal of this symptom. The discharge from the urethra usually disappears as soon as the testis becomes