653 DISLOCATIONS. inwards the ulna lies on tlie back of the internal condyle, and the head of the radius is lodged in the posterior humeral fossa. The dislocations are reduced like that of both bones backwards. Dislocation of the ulna alone backwards.—In this dislocation, the deformity of the limb is very great, the forearm and hand being twisted inwards, whilst the olecranon projects backwards. The forearm cannot be extended, nor can it be bent to more than a right angle. Its reduction is more easily accomplished than that of both bones backwards, and is effected by similar means; the forearm being drawn downwards and at the same time outwards, so that the radius may act as a lever by resting against the external condyle. Dislocation of the radius forwards.—This accident happens from a fall on the hand, when the arm is ex- tended, and the radius receives the weight of the body; or by blows on the ulna, which fracture this bone and thus force the radius forwards. Symptoms: The forearm is slightly bent, but cannot be brought to a right angle with the upper, nor can it be perfectly extended; when bent suddenly flexion is stopped by the head of the radius striking against the fore part of the humerus. The head is between pronation and supi- nation. By carrying the thumb into the fore part of the elbow-joint, and rotating the hand at the same time, the head of the radius will be felt to rotate also. Reduction: Supinate the hand, bend the forearm, and make extension from the hand without including the ulna. In this dislocation the head of the radius rests on the fore part of the humerus, immediately above the external condyle. Dislocation of the radius backwards is very rare. Sir A. Cooper has seen but one such dislocation, and that in the dead subject. It may be reduced by bending the forearm and making extension at the same time. Dislocations of the wrist-joint.-Hhere are'four dis- locations of the wrist-joint, viz. of both bones backwards or forwards, of the radius forwards, and of the ulna backioards. Dislocation of the radius and ulna backwards is caused by falhng on the back of the hand, by which the bones are driven on the dorsum of the carpus. Symptoms: