8 ANATOMY, inferiorly on the pelvis, and transmitting their weight to the lower extremities; it also gives attachment to nume- rous muscles and ligaments, and affords lodgment to the spinal marrow and membranes, an important part of the nervous system; in its structure it combines the almost incompatible properties of great strength, finmiess, elas- ticity, and mobility; into its formation we have entering bones, ligaments, elastic structure, blood-vessels, nerves, and absorbents. BONES OF THE SPINE. The bones of the spine are named vertebrae, and are called true, to distinguish them from the false vertebrae or bones which, separate in early life, afterwards unite to form the sacrum. They consist of seven cervical, twelve dorsal, and five lumbar, and belong to the class of irregular bones. The vertebrae, taken generally, consist of a body and seven processes, and present four notches and a foramen, with the exception of the atlas, wliich requires separate consideration. The body forms the greatest portion of the dorsal or lumbar vertebrae ; it has a rough articulating surface above and below; is anteriorly convex in the transverse direc- tion ; slightly concave perpendicularly, in consequence of the edges projecting to give attachments to ligaments. Posteriorly, the body is flattened, rather concave, and has numerous foramina in it for the entrance of the principal vessels. The processes are seven, and are connected with the posterior margin of the body by bony plates, named the crura or pedicles, above and beneath which is a notch completing the intervertebral foramina for the passage of the nerves, when the bones are articulated together. The lateral processes are named transverse, and project horizontally, in the dorsal region marked by an articidat- ing surface for the tubercles of the ribs; adjoining these are the four articular or oblique processes, two superior, and two inferior, which are for the articulation of the vertebrae together. Posteriorlj^ is the spinous process, projecting backwards in the mesial line, connected with the rest of the bone by quadrangular portions of bone.