GONORKHffiA. 565 retention of urine, hernia humoralis, hgemorrhage, phi- mosis, and paraphimosis, stricture, &c. Chordee.—This is characterised by a curved state of the penis during erection, attended with great pain, and frequently a discharge of blood. It appears as one of the earliest attendants of gonorrhoea, and is caused by an effusion of lymph into the cellular tissue of the corpus spongiosum urethrae, which prevents the regular distension of the part. It is treated with fomentations and leeches, applied externally, followed by the camphorated mercu- rial or belladonna ointment, or a mixture of them; opium being administered internally, combined with camphor. Bubo.—This is also an early symptom. In general a number of the glands in the groin become enlarged, the • absorbents leading to them being also increased in size and forming a thickened cord along the dorsum of the penis. It is smypathetic mid rarely siqjpurates. It is best treated with cold lotions, and leeches if the inflam- mation be severe, and careful rest. Retention of im?ie.~This occurs during the inflamma- tory stage of gonorrhcea, especially where much irrita- bihty of the neck of the bladder has been present, and the disease has been treated on the irritating plan. ' The symptoms are extremely acute, and there is much con- stitutional disturbance present. In some cases the patient is unable to pass any urine ; in others he gets rid of a few drops with much pain and suffering. The warm bath leeches to the perineum and above the pubes, bleedine from the arm if the patient be plethoric, and emollient enemata, followed by the use of anodynes, should be resorted to before the catheter is had recourse to • bv this treatment relief is almost invariably obtained Re'ten tion of urine from gonorrheal inflammation may prove tatal, trom the supervention of peritonitis Mcesses sometimes form along the" course of the urethra, or in perineo, in severe cases of gonorrhcea In the former, they seem to be caused bv inflnvT \- and then bursts into the urethra; in the lnHpr p ""^^ glands are generally affected: the;e m y b ^ f^^^^^^^ the urethra or in perineo, thus givin? ri.P Vn a « fi perineo. The cavfty of the absSsTfh^Sd be lairds"