2 ANATOMY. they are irregular in shape, and composed of spongy, covered by a thin layer of compact, tissue. All bones cannot be comprised in these divisions, as, for example, the ribs: they resemble long bones in their length, and being expanded at their extremities; and flat bones, in forming the parietes of a cavity, and presenting a concave and convex surface ; and are like irregular bones in their structure. Some divide the bones into long, short, flat, and mixed. The number of bones in the human body is variable, owing to the irregular development of small bones in the tendons where these are exposed to friction, such as the sesamoid bones, and owing to the existence of ossa Wor- miana or triquetra in the cranium; they also differ at the different periods of life; their number in the adult is estimated at 244; but if we omit sesamoid bones, and subdivisions of bones, as of the sternum, coccyx, and os hyoides, their number will be only 197, viz., spine with sacrum and coccyx 26, head and face 22, ribs and sternum 25, upper extremities 64, and lower extremities 60. The production and growth of bone have occupied the attention of many physiologists, and even now are not uniformly agreed upon. Bone is supposed to be first prep£o:ed by the deposit of a gelatinous substance, which is penetrated by arteries, veins, and absorbents. This is gradually converted into cartilage, which presents a red appearance, from being permeated by numerous vessels carrying red blood. By degrees these vessels deposit osseous particles, Avhich ex- tend from a point in a radiating manner in the flat, and in a longitudinal direction in the long bones, the red colour disappeai-ing with the increase of bony deposit; the spots from which the bony matter proceeds are called points of ossification. In the irregular bones, the points of ossification are numerous, corresponding with the several prominent portions of it: one, larger than another, is generally named the body. In the flat bones, the ossific points are likewise variable; thus in each parietal bone, there is only one; in the occipital, several. In the long bones there are three parts of distinct formation, the shaft and the extremities. The shaft is first deposited in the form of a ring of bone, whUst the extremities are still