AXILLARY REGION. 343 clavicle, first rib, and scapula; by means of this, diseases of one regiou spread rapidly to the other, as may be ob- served in aneurisms, abscesses, emphysema, &c. The lymphatic glands of the axilla communicate with those of the arm and thoracic parletes, and more especially of the mammary gland in the female; hence, when the latter structure is attacked with cancer, or other malignant disease, the morbid action is conveyed by means of the lymphatics to the axillary glands ■ these become specifically affected, and will require removal together with the diseased breast. In doing so the greatest caution IS necessary, as the axilla is surrounded on all sides except Its inner, by large and important vessels; thus, on the outer wall, the axillary vessels and nerves are placed; alone its anterior wall, close to the margin of the pectoralis minor muscle IS the thoracica longa, or external mammary artery, and alonj? its posterior wall near the lower margin of the subscapularis muscle, IS the subscapularis artery. It is evident, then, that in making an incision into this cavity for the removal of enlarged glands directly inwards. The same rule should be observed in opening abscesses. When the cavity has been exposed, the knife may he laid aside and the diseased glands be isolated by the fingers or a director, and then be forcibly torn away from the cavity^ SoLe glands but this IS objectionable on account of the hsemorrhaSe which frequently t_akes place, and as they retract into the cSlukr issue are secured with difficulty; some have advocated X gature of the arteries of the vessels of the glands, to produce a neceS^J P""''' *«diou\ pai;ifulf and un! Remove the cellular tissue and glands, and the bounda- ries of the axillary cavity wiU be exposed. The anterior waU of the axilla is formed by the pectoral muscles. On raising the integuments and cellular tissue, a triangular space is exposed between the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles, Mith the base above at the clavicl and the apex below, lost in the cellular substance which connect these muscles interiorly. Into this triangular space, t^e ceXlL vein dips to unite with the axillary vein. MoreTeplv seated in this triangular space are fh^ nr..! ^ ligament, thoracica fcromiaUs artery ^he .x iT '^'r^"' and vein, and plexus of nerves. In tWs space h'^ 'n''^ iiisrr:^i:Li;dr^^»--—