562 SURGERY. a little examination will satisfy the practitioner that death is fast approaching. The pulse becomes weak, inter- mitting, and easily compressed; the abdomen becomes less tense and tender, the patient gulps the fluids from his stomach without any action of the abdominal muscles, and the skin is covered with a clammy perspiration. The tumour may be perhaps, by a little pressure, returned into the abdomen; it feels emphysematous; the bowels become relaxed, and hiccough supervenes. In this state but little can be done; the tumour should be cut into so as to give exit to its contents, and expedite the separation of the sloughs. The recovery of the patient is possible by the formation of an artificial anus. The appearance of hiccough in the advanced stage of strangulated hernia is a bad symptom ; it may, however, appear in the earhj stage, and yet the case terminate favorably. POST-MORTEM EXAMINATION. On cutting into the abdomen of a patient that has died of strangulated hernia, a quantity of air immediately escapes from the peritoneal cavity; the intestines appear as if they had been tossed about in the abdomen; those above the stricture are much distended, whilst those below it are contracted. The surface of the peritoneum especially where it invests the intestines, is covered irregularly with a brownish-coloured tenacious lymph, which glues the viscera together. _ The pelvic cavity contains a quantity of brownish- coloured serum. The intestines, where the convolutions touch each other, "have a red line upon them. On removing the lymph which covers the intestines, they appear more vascular than is natural. When the hernial sac is cut into, a quantity of lymph is found m the sur- rounding cellular tissue, and if gangrene have taken place the parts will be emphysematous, and pit on pressure. A large quantity of serum will be found in the hermal sac, especially if intestine be present. The omentum is dark- coloured, and if gangrenous gives way to pressure, and emits a highly putrefactive odour. The intestine is covered with a layer of coagulated lymph. If gangrenous, small green spots will be seen upon it; it also yields to pressure.