DISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 599 the anus: such cases should he distinguished from a true fistula, as any operation on them is likely to ago-ravate the more serious affection, and will not succeed" although properly performed. When we are about to operate on a fistula, with but one opening, a second is to be made either with the lancet externally, or with the point of the bistoury into the rectum. If the fistula should be slow in heahng, the use of stimulating appHcations will be found beneficial. Prolapsus ani is most frequently met with in children. It consists of an eversion of the mucous membrane of the rectum, caused by a relaxed condition of it. The protru- sion forms a large circular tumour, of a red, deep red or purple colour. It should be at once returned, by makine gentle pressure on the part, for if aUowed to remain out sloughing may be produced by the constriction of the anus on the tumour. The use of cold astringent lotions a generous diet, and the various preparations of bark and iron, will sometimes prevent a recurrence of the disease When these remedies are ineffectual, and the disease be- comes troublesome, one or more folds of the mucous mem- brane of the rectum may be removed by the scissors; the contraction of the wounds, thus caused, will remove tue atiection in a great majority of cases. StricfMre of the rectum is divided into the spasmodic W maTw"" n^, °J '^'^ i« denied by many. Of the permanent there are two species the simple permanent stricture, and the scirrhous or scirrho- contracted rectum. ^i-umo Simple permanent stricture is caused by an effusion of lymph into the submucous cellular tissue! follow d bv a gradual contraction and condensation of the mucous membrane. It most frequently appears in ad It, T i -need life, and in females ofLf/ th^nl ma £ ^The" symptoms are those which we should conce v/n V duced by a mechanical obstruction to tre pass 'e Zhe" feces VIZ., an irregular state of the bowels ?! f- constipated, sometimes relaxed, attended tifb r"!'' pains in the abdomen. The faeces aro I }■ '"i^'^^ according to the nature of the TtZZ anc T T than natural, unless when the di a ' is silt, " upper part of the intestine, then tSlLrr ilati^g