76 ANATOMY. attached superiorly to an oblique line on the under surface of the clavicle, passes obliquely downwards, forwards, and inwards, and is inserted into the upper surface of the coracoid process near its base. Anteriorly, these hgaments are separated by a triangular interval, filled with cellular substance, and the insertion of the subclavuis muscle; they assist in preventing displacement of the clavicle upwards, support the scapula, and prevent the neck of this bone from falling downwards when fractured. THE SCAPULO-CLATICTJLAB AETICULATION. This articulation is formed between the external end of the clavicle and the inner edge of the acromion process ; they are held together by the superior and i7iferior liga- ments, which consist of a number of fibres passing from one bone to anotlier. The articulation is lined internaUy by a synovial membrane, and is occasionally, but very rarely, iprovided with an interarticular cartilage; it belongs to the class Planiform. LIGAMENTS OF THE SCAPULA. The scapula has two ligaments attached to it, caUed the superior 2indi posterior. ,,1,1 ^.7/«,v The superior proper ligament, also called the deltoid, triangular, or coraco-acromial ligament, stretches between the coracoid and acromion processes, above and a little internal to the shoulder-joint. It is of a triangular shape, with its base attached anteriorly to the coracoid process; from this it passes upwards, backwards, and outwards, and is inserted by its apex into the acromion process; its under surface corresponds with the head of the humerus with the intervention of a large bursa mucosa. . ^ . The posterior proper, or coracoid ligament, is situatea immediately behind the root of the coracoid process, from the base of which it passes backwards over the notcli in the superior costa of the scapula, and is inserted into tbe opposite edge of the notch : it converts this notch into a foramen, which is traversed by the supra-scapular nerve, whilst the artery of the same name passes in general above it; it gives origin to the omohyoid muscle, and is trequeutiy converted into bone.