'JIO ANATOMY. the inferior spongy bone, and when it has arrived at the extremity of that bone, it should be guided a little upwards, outwards, and backwards. The posterior nares, or apertures, are oblong m the perpendicular direction, compressed laterally; bounded above by the sphenoid bone; externally, by the internal pterygoid plates; internally, by the vomer; and inferiorly by the palate bone. . . The mucous membrane of the nose is named pituitary, or schneiderian; it is continuous with the common inte- gument anteriorly, and with the mucous membrane of the pharynx posteriorly ; it is red, soft, and villous, especially about the spongy bones; anteriorly smoother and studded with hairs, and exceedingly adherent to the penosteura; but, in the cells and maxillary sinus, it is thiii, very pale, and slightly adherent to the bones. w f The softer anterior part, consisting of the alse and tip ot the nose, is formed of common integument and cartilages : these are five in number, one central, and two lateral on each side: the central one, elongated from above down- wards, is somewhat triangular in shape, broadest superiorly, where it is attached to the perpendicular plate ot tlie ethmoid bone. Of the lateral cartilages, the superior one is triangular, and attached to the nasal and superior maxiUary bones, and anteriorly rests agamst the perpen- dicular cartilage : the inferior lateral cartilages, most parti- cularly, give form to the alee nasi. They are arched and convex externaUy; connected above with the superior lateral cartilage, externally to the superior maxdlary bone, and anterioriy are loosely connected with the perpendiciUar cartilage. In addition to these five, there are some smaUer cartilages, which are uncertain as to number, and not definite in their form. i u- i The arteries of the nose are derived from the labial, internal maxillary and ethmoidal. The nerves are branches of the olfactory, or first pair, the nasal division ot the btth, and branches from Meckel's gangUon. The nose is not only of use as the organ of smelling, but serves as the chief passage of the air into the lungs ; and has a considerable influence upon the voice.