692 SURGERY. Heemorrhoidal tumours have been treated of. Tumours of the mucous membrane of the nose are named polypi; they have been already described. PIBllOUS TUMOUR OF THE ANTRUM. This disease is comparatively rare : it is of slow growth, begins without pain, and only causes pain by pressure on the surrounding parts. It does not force out the bones of the face like the fungoid disease of the antrum, but rather encroaches upon the orbit and nose; it has a firm consis- tence; brownish-white colour, moderate vascularity, and does not bleed freely. FUNGOID TUMOUR OF THE ANTRUM. This disease is malignant; it begins with uneasiness in tlie nose, the nostril of the side affected becomes obstructed, and there is a feeling like polypus ; there is a red tumour in the nostril, which if lacerated pours out blood, pam is experienced; then an offensive ichorous discharge emerges from the nose, the face swells, the maxUlarybone covering the antrum is protruded, and there is great deformity; sometimes the palate bone is depressed, first towards the mouth, the molar teeth drop out, and there may be a dis- charge of blood, which relieves. Fistulous openings soon appear, the throat may become obstructed from posterior extension of the disease, and the eye may be protruded or buried in the tumour; left to itself, the disease is always fatal. Extirpation of the diseased part affords the only hope of prolonging life, by an operation which in this country, of late years, has been many times performed, es- pecially by Mr. Liston, Hancock, and others. FUNGOID TUMOUR OF THE UTERUS. This is likely to be mistaken for the cauHflower excres- cence of the uterus, which, however, generaUy commences in the OS uteri, and is attended with more pain. Fungoid tumour has a polypous form, and begins m the cavity ot the uterus; the tumour sometimes protvudes so as to fall the vagina. It has an irregular surface, bleeds on exanu- nation, and is frequently attended with an offensive dis- charge. There are two varieties of it, one maUguant, the other not, but very similar in their symptoms; the appli-