THE NUTRITIVE FUNCTIONS, 433 its reception. The mouth is then closed, the apex of the tongue applied to the roof of the mouth, and the rest of the organ brought successively in contact with it, from before backwards; the food having no other way to escape this pressure, slides down the inclined plane formed by the tongue through the isthmus faucium, into the pharynx, which is drawn upwards and forwards to receive it. At this time the velum palati is elevated, and thus prevents the food getting into the nostrils or Eustachian tubes. The larynx is raised, and rather inclined forwards, at the same time that the pharynx is elevated, so that the glottis is brought under the epiglottis, which amply covers it, and thereby prevents the food from entering that cavity. As soon as the food has passed the isthmus into the phai7nx, the velum is depressed, and thus cuts off the return of food into the mouth, at the same time that it assists in its descent. The moment the food has passed into the pharynx, its constiictors begin to act, and rapidly force it into the oesophagus. The larynx, pharynx, velum, &c., are now restored to their natural position. Digestion.—The alimentary matter being propelled by the contractions of the oesophagus into the cardiac extre- mity of the stomach, becomes acted upon by the gastric juice, which, assisted by the heat and muscular contraction of the stomach, quickly dissolves the digestible part, and entering into union with it, produces a new fluid, called chyme. The chyme is gradually conveyed, by a kind of peristaltic motion, from the cardiac to the pyloric end of the stomach. When it has been sufficiently operated upon by the stomach, it passes through the pylorus into the duodenum. The pylorus possesses a peculiar sensibility, which may be considered as a kind of sentinel, that pre- vents any matter from passing through it, but such as has been properly converted into chyme. ChyliJication.—'Uhe chyme having passed throuo-h the pylorus into the duodenum, becomes mixed with the bilian/ pancreatic, and w^esfma^ secretions. These juices by their action upon the chyme, separate it into two portions, one a milky fluid called chyle, and another, the excrementitious portion. By some, the alkaline and saline ingredients of the bile are supposed to combine with the chyle, while the albumen and resinous matter combine with the excremcu- 19