BASE OF THE BRAIN. 155 the middle are the converging fibres of the under part of the medulla oblongata, usually known as crura cerehelli. The crura cerebelli are two thick rounded cords (very short), leading from the substance of the cerebellum on each side to the pons varolii. They form part of the great transverse commissure of the cerebellum. The fourth ventricle is a small cavity situated between the medulla oblongata and the cerebellum. It is bounded laterally by the corpora restiformia, and the processus e cerebello ad testes. Above by the testes and the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum; below by a small process of pia mater, and arachnoid closing its cavity. Posteriorly by the valve of Vieussens above, and the uvula and tonsils below, and anteriorly by the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata, across which are seen some delicate white striae, which are the origins of the auditory nerve. This surface comes to a point (between the two restiform processes) inferiorly, which has been called the calamus scriptorius, from a slight resemblance that it has to a writing pen. At the extreme point of the pen is seen a small cavity or depression, called the ventricle of Arantius. The little projection of the pia mater inferiorly into this ventricle has been called the choroid plexuses of the fourth ventricle. We will now proceed to the description of the Base of the Brain, with which we will describe the cerebral pro- tuberance in its proper place. BASE OF THE BRAIN. Most anterioriy will be perceived the great longitudinal fassure dividmg the anterior lobes of the brain, and on gently separating these we shall see the anterior extremity ot the corpus callosum. On each side of this fissure is a groove which lodges the olfactory nerve and its bulb. * In front of the optic commissure in the mesial line iallosum ^ of the corpus Further hack, and in the middle line, may be seen the commissure of the optic nerves. The anterior diver-in^ nems gomg to the eye, whilst the posterior, convcrg nf