BASE OF THE BRAIN. 159 The corpora •pyramidalia or anterior pyramids are situated close together, being only separated by the anterior sulcus. About three fourths of an inch below the pons the two decussate, the fibres of the right one passing to the left, and vice versa. This helps to explain the cause of paralysis occurring on the opposite side of the body to that of the braui affected by accidental or morbid lesion. From the extreme summit of the corpora pyramidalia arise the sixth nerves. They contain no grey matter. The corpora olivaria are composed of white substance externally, and contain, in their interior, a small leaf-like patch of grey matter, named corpus dentatum olivare, which has given them the name of ganglia of increase of the medulla oblongata. The fibres of these bodies, as well as those of the corpora pyramidalia, pass through the pons varohi Between the corpora pyramidalia and olivaria anses the ninth pair of nerves. The corpora restiformia (so named from their rope-like appearance) are continuations of part of the posterior column of the spmal cord, and partly of the anterior column placed between the corpora ohvaria and posterior pyramids and pass into the cerebellum, forming its inferior peduncle of each side, and forming part of the lateral boundary of the fourth ventricle. They contain some erey matter internally. " "^^i^ posterior pyramids are composed of medullary sub- stance entirely; they are close together below, but above diverge from one another to pass at once into the lateral obes of the cerebellum. From this they have been some- times called the processus e cerebello ad medullam Thev bound by their divergence the calamus scriptorius, and laterally the cavity of the fourth ventricle. From the Some transverse white striae are occasionally seen on the anterior part of the medulla oblono-ata below oHvaria. These have been named^^^foit^fibt,^^ arciformes, or processus arciformes ) KJiokb Before leaving the brain, I shall say a few words on its mode of evolution from the spinal cord, as well as oT the