REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMV. 356 THE ANTI-BEACHIAL REGION extends from the elbow to the wrist-joint, and comprises the anterior and posterior surfaces of the forearm. Beneath the integuments on the anterior surface of this region we meet with the superficial veins and nerves de- scribed with the preceding. On raising these, the deeper- seated parts are found to be invested by a layer of dense aponeurotic structure, the fascia of the forearm. This is weaker on the anterior than on the posterior surface of the forearm. Superiorly it is attached to the condyles of the humerus, and to tbe muscles which arise from these eminences; it is also attached to the biceps in front, the triceps behind ; from these it descends and invests the muscles of the forearm, between which it sends in pro- cesses or septa, which divide them from one another, and afford to most of them points of origin. It is attached laterally to the radius and ulna, and inferiorly becomes connected with the annular ligaments of the wrist, the posterior of which appears to be formed altogether by it. The fibres of the fascia of the forearm run in different directions, and interlace much. This fascia is sometimes the seat of inflammation either idiopathic or symptomatic; it is attended with violent pain, owing to the resistance of the fibrous structure of which it is composed. Should the inflammation not yield to the usual antiphlogistic remedies, the fascia should be divided by a free incision; the tension being thus removed, the sufferings of the patient will be much lessened, and the inflammation will gradually subside. When matter has formed beneath the fascia, the same plan of treatment becomes necessary. On removing the fascia from the forearm, the muscles, vessels, and nerves of this region will be easily exposed by a very little further dissection. The principal vessels met with here are the radial, ulnar, and interosseous arteries. As the first of these is the most superficial, we shall first proceed to it. ARTERIA RADIALIS. We have already said that the brachial artery bifurcates opposite the coronoid process of tlie ulna into the radial and ulnar arteries. The former of these, although the smallest, runs more in the direction of the parent trunk.