THE NOSE. 209 THE NOSE. The bones which enter into the formation of the nose are fourteen in number, consisting of all the bones of the face, excepting the two malar and inferior maxillary, and three bones which are described as common to the head and face, viz., the frontal, ethmoid, and sphenoid. By a central partition, the nose is divided into two distinct fossae. This septum of the nose is formed by the vomer, nasal lamella of the ethmoid bone, and an extensive cartilage. The roof of the nose has a flattened surface in the centre, shelving down anteriorly and posteriorly. It is bounded anteriorly by the nasal bones, superiorly by the frontal bone and cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and posteriorly by the body of the sphenoid. The floor is formed by the superior maxillary and palate bones, and the outer wall by the ethmoid, internal pterygoid plates, OS unguis, inferior spongy bone, palate bone, and superior maxillary. The inner wall is the septum. Each nostril is divided into chambers by the spongy bones. These chambers are named superior, middle, and inferior meatus. The openings into these, in addition to the anterior and posterior common openings, or nares, are the following : in the inferior meatus is the opening from the nasal duct, concealed by a fold of mucous membrane. In passing a probe into it, the instrument must be curved and carried just beyond the fold, and tlien, by turning it outwards, it may be made to enter the duct. The openings into the tniddle meatus are : one from the maxillary sinus, one from the frontal sinus, and anterior ethmoidal cells. In the superior meatus we find the opening from the posterior ethmoidal cells and sphenoidal sinuses; and in the dry bones, the spheno-palatine foramen At the anterior part of the floor, on each side, in the dry bone, is the superior orifice of the anterior palatine The Eustachian tube might almost be said to enter the nares. Its anterior aperture corresponds with the posterior part of the inferior spongy bone; when a probe has to be introduced into it, it should be carried immediately under