SUKGEKY. 454 cords, and are extremely tender to the touch. Abscesses form in the course of the inflamed veins, both external to them and in their interior. Inflammation of nerves is exceedingly painful, and sometimes extends towards the spinal marrow or brain. Inflammation of the absorbents is marked by red lines on the skin in the course of these vessels. These form hard knots from the skin participating in the inflammation. The absorbent glands become also inflamed, and both glands and nerves occasionally suppurate. Serous mem- branes, when inflamed, are prone to the effusion of lymph, causing adhesion : they seldom suppurate. Mucous mem- branes, on the contrary, suppurate rapidly. The preceding forms of inflammation are named common, to distinguish them from those which depend on a specific disease in the constitution, or part affected, and which are therefore named specific. The syphilitic, scrofulous in- flammations, &c., are instances of this, and will be con- sidered under the heads of syphilis, scrofula, &c. ON ULCEBS. An TJlcer is a solution of continuity in any of the soft parts of the body, attended with a secretion of pus, or some kind of discharge, and presenting generally a granu- latino- surface. Ulcers are divided into the local and constitutional, according as they -ar^ produced by a local or constitutional affection; also into the smiple and specific, the former being unaccompanied by any peculiar action of the part or constitution, the latter bemg caused by the presence of such action. Sir E. Home's classifi- cation of ulcers is that most approved of; he divides them as follows: ,t> • ^ i. x 1. Ulcers in parts which have sufficient strength to carry on the actions necessary for their recovery,—e. g. Simple, purulent, or healthy ulcers. 2. Ulcers in parts, which are too weak for that purpose —Weak ulcers. 3. Ulcers in parts, whose actions are too violent to form healthy granulations, whether this arise from the state of the parts or of the constitution—/rn7a6/e, Gan- grenous, or Sloughhig ulcers. • j i ^ 4. Ulcers in parts, whose actions are too indolent,