THE BUAIN. 149 composed of both grey and white striated matter, so mixed as to give it the appearance from which it derives its name. The white matter seen in it is a prolongation of the anterior pyramids, which derive their last increase of substance from these bodies previously to expanding into the cerebral hemispheres. From this circumstance the corpora striata have been called the superior cerebral ganglia, or ganglia of increase. The tania semicircularis is. a small, thin, band of nervous substance, which separates the thalamus opticus from the corpus striatum ; it may be traced for a short way into the descending cornu in which it ceases. The choroid plexus is a congeries of blood-vessels and cellular tissue which passes from the foramen of Monro over the body of the lateral ventricles through the descend- ing cornu of the lateral ventricle to the pia mater at the base of the brain. At the foramina of Monro the two choroid plexuses unite to form the velum interpositum of which we shall speak when we treat of the third ventricle Ihe thalamus opticus and the fornix we will leave for the present. The anterior cornu of the lateral ventricle appears like a simple groove in the cerebral substance. Its direction is forwards and outwards, diverging from its fellow of the opposite side. "ihe posterior cornu is in shape like a depression, caused by a finger being pressed into the substance of the posterior lobe. It IS thence called the digital fossa. It is likened to a cock's spur by some, and hence named ergot by the l-rench. Its direction is backwards and inwards converging to the opposite cornu; it presents a slight elevation (derived trom the corpus callosum) on its floor, called the hivvo- campus minor. 'ihe desceiiding cornu describes a considerable curve the general direction of which may be remembered by e word BODFi ,^its course being backwards, outwards down! wards, then forwards and inwards. In the descending cornu are seen the following parts The side and part of the under surface of the thahamu; opticus the choroid plexus, the hippocampus mZ he corpus flml,natum, the fascia dentata the pes hiZcampi^ and the pes accessorius. ^ mppucampi,