IRREDUCIBLE HERNIA. 557 reduced, the pad of the truss should be applied over the opening through which the intestine has escaped from the abdomen. For example, in oblique inguinal hernia, it should be placed on the internal and not on the external ring. If placed over the external ring, the hernia will be still contained in the inguinal canal, where it is extremely liable to become strangulated, and the pad of the truss, when applied here, may injure the spermatic cord. By a perseverance in the constant use of the truss, we have reason to expect a perfect cure of the disease from the pressure causing an obliteration of the hernial sac, and the contraction which takes place in the internal ring; thus, the viscera are prevented from descending through It. In the young subject, as just explained, other circumstances assist in the removal of the disease When the truss has been worn for some time, there is still greater danger of a strangulation ensuing, should it be laid aside and the hernia descend, than previous to Its first adoption : this arises from the partially contracted state of the opening, and the thickened state of the pentoneum, induced by the pressure of the pad. Hernia can in general be easily reduced in infants, as the inguinal canal is short, and possesses but Uttle obHquity; it is sel- dom strangulated, yet Mr. Pott states he has seen an infant of a year old, die of a strangulated hernia. In congenital hernia, where the testis has not as vet descended. Sir A. Cooper recommends the truss not to be applied untU after the testis has descended into the scrotum. It frequently happens that, from a thickened state of the omentum or mesentery, from adhesions to the hernial sac, or from other causes, a hernia cannot be returned • it then becomes an "'"cu, u IRREDUCIBLE HERNIA. There are three states or conditions in which an irre- ducible hernial tumour may be found; thus it r^av be either simply vreductble, incarcerated, or strangulS Stmply u-redu^^^^^^^ Hernia is that form o/Zlt^s. which, although It cannot be reduced, is no attended with any serious symptoms. nuenueu The patient should in this case wear a bag-truss, which