517 OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA. another set of inguinal glands, met with below Poupart's ligament, more numerous and arranged in the vertical direction; they are contained in a sheath or capsule formed in the superficial fascia. The superior set com- municate with the absorbents of the genital organs, hence they become inflamed in all diseases affecting these parts; not unfrequently, too, some absorbents from the perineal and anal regions communicate with them, and thus swell- ing may be induced in them from disease of these parts. The inferior inguinal glands, on the contrary, communi- cate with the absorbents of the lower extremity. Chronic enlargement of these glands may be mistaken for an in- guinal or femoral hernia. Raise the superficial fascia from beneath, commencing a little below Poupart's ligament, and continue tlie dis- section upwards to the umbilicus. A distinct layer of cellular tissue, "Scarpa's fascia," is exposed. This is firmly attached to and appears to arise from the fascia lata, about half an inch below Poupart's ligament, whence It ascends over the ligament, to be gradually lost on the outer surface of the external oblique muscle; it is some- times described as the deep layer of the superficial fascia, with which It IS so intimately connected, as to give to this the appearance of being firmly attached to Poupart's liga- ment; tliey are, indeed, with difficulty separated In London, usually no distinction is made between this and the superficial fascia. On Scarpa's fascia femoral hernia rests, when it turns up over Poupart s ligament. These fasciae, excepting the skin forni the most superficial coverings of an in-uinal hernia. From the free communication between the° cells or the superficial fascia and those of the surrounding' cellular tissue, fluids are rapidly transmitted from one to 'tj^:^'-^ - anasarca perfectly tendinous, in order that t mav tually support the abdominal v Ira ft^ fn "'°'\f''- feUowof the opposite side, a C"^h It'Tt^n/ol tending directly across the lower n-irt nf i i