493 CATARACV. The congenital cataract is of the membranous form, the lens having been absorbed. There is but one form of treatment for cataract, namely, operation. Before deciding on having recourse to an operation, the eye should be carefully examined, the ex- tract of belladonna having been previously applied, so as to enable the surgeon to have a better view of the interior of the eye. If the sclerotic coat be firm and resisting, and not too vascular; if the cornea be not opaque, or other- wise diseased, the iris not adherent nor tremulous, the pupil free, and the patient capable of distinguishing light from darkness, the operation wiU be judicious; but if, on the contrary, the reverse of these symptoms be present, showing a disorganisation of the eye, it should not be performed. The principal operations for the removal of cataract are those of depression, breaking up the lens, and extraction. The operation of depression, or couching, consists in de- pressing the opaque lens from the axis of vision, into the bottom of the posterior chamber, or into the vitreous humour. The patient having been placed in a proper position, the upper lid should be raised with the speculum, which may also press on, so as to fix, the eye, or this instrument may be dispensed with alto- gether. The operator passes the needle from the outer side through the sclerotic coat into the interior of the eye, about one line and a half behind its junction with the cornea, and below the centre of the eye, to avoid the long ciliary arteiy. The point of the needle is first directed backwards and inwards, but is turned directly inwards as soon as it has passed into the posterior chamber; the point now appears behind the pupil. The operator now places the extremity of the instrument on the anterior and upper part of the lens, and thus depresses it. The needle is now withdrawn, and some lint, moistened with cold water, applied over the eye. The after-treatment consists in guardinff against any inflammation that may appear. When the lens is turned into the vitreous humour, so that its upper edge is directed back- tTe cataract ' "'"''^ reclination of Breaking up of the lens. This operation is performed as the preceding: the capsule of the lens having been cut through, the opaque lens is brought forwards into th» anterior chamber, and then broken into fragments. The principle of cure m both cases is the same, the opaque