DISLOCATIONS. 655 Dislocations of the thumb.—The metacarpal bone of the thumb is sometimes dislocated from the trapezium, and most frequently inwards. It is detected by the pro- tuberance formed towards the palm of the hand, by the thumb being bent backwards, and not allowing of being brought towards the little finger. The dislocation is reduced by making extension, at the same time bending the thumb inwards, so as to relax the flexor muscles, which are the most powerful. In the dislocation back- wards the protuberance is formed on the dorsum of the os trapezium. Dislocation of the first phalanx.—The first phalanx of the thumb is generally dislocated on the dorsum of the metacarpal bone, by falls or blows on the extremity of the phalanx while partially flexed. Symptoms: The end of the phalanx forms a projection on the dorsum of the metacarpal bone; whilst this projects inwards towards the palm of the hand, the first phalanx is forcibly extended or bent backwards, the second is flexed. Reduction: This is one of the most diflicult dislocations to be reduced. In order to relax the parts as much as possible, the hand should be soaked for a considerable time in warm water, a piece of wetted wash-leather is to be closely wrapped round the first phalanx; a tape, about two yards in length, should be fastened on the leather, with a knot which will not shp, such as sailors call the clove-hitch : an assistant should now firmly press on the metacarpal bone, by putting his middle and first fingers between the forefinger and thumb of the patient, and thus make counter-extension, whilst the surgeon, assisted by others, draws the first phalanx from the metacarpal bone, inclining It at the same time a little towards the palm of the hand If this should not succeed, the foUowing plan may be adopted:—In addition to the apparatus already employed let a strong worsted tape be carried between the meta- carpal bone and forefinger, bend the forearm round a bed-post and let the tape be firmly tied to it, so as to prevent the hand yielding when extension is made To the tape surrounding the first phalanx a pulley is to be applied, and extension made, which will generally succeed. Forcible flexion backwards will sometimes reduce tlie dis- location when all other attempts have faded. Various