PHYSIOLOGY. 434 titious portion. The chyle attaches itself to those irregular circular folds of the mucous membrane of the small intes- tines, called valvnlse conniventes, where it is absorbed by the lacteals, and conveyed to the thoracic duct. The large intestines also possess lacteals, so that if any portion of chyle should not have been absorbed in the small intes- tines, it is taken up in the large ones. The faeces pass from the small to the large intestines and there acquire that peculiar fetid odour which distinguishes them. They are gradually urged on into the sigmoid flexure of the colon and rectum, where they remain for a certain time, and are then discharged. ExcrefAon of the Fceces.—The faeces gradually accumu- lating in the rectum stimulate it to discharge its contents; and the diaphragm and abdominal muscles expel the faeces, ovei'powering the levator and sphincter ani. After the excretion, the levator chiefly retracts the intestine, which is again closed by its sphincter. Abso7'ption and Course of the Chyle.—The absorbents which take up the chyle in the intestines are caUed lacteals. They are most numerous in the jejunum. The lacteals of the small intestines, and part of the large, convey the chyle to the mesenteric glands, where it is supposed to undergo some change, which is rendered evident by a change of colour; the fluid which passes from the gland has a.more pink and rather less milky appearance. Passing from one gland to another, they ultimately form a small number of larger trunks. These accompany the superior mesenteric artery to the right side of the aorta, and there join the thoracic duct. The thoracic duct is formed by the junction of the lacteals with the lymphatics of the pelvis and lower extremities. It begins on the third lumbar vertebra, and here swells out into an oval sac, called receptaculum chyli. Proceeding upwards, on the right side of the aorta, it passes through the aortic opening of the diaphragm into the posterior mediastinum. On the fourth dorsal vertebra it crosses behind the aorta to reach the left side of the neck, and terminates in the angle of union of the subclavian and internal jugular veins. Use of the Spleen.—The physiology of the spleen is not understood. By some it has been thought subservient to the function of the liver, by preparing a fluid for the vena