SUllGEllY. 548 of coustriction. Sir A. Cooper asserts that the stricture is seated in the "crural arch," and recommends the incision for its division to be directed upwards and in- wards, thus dividing a part of the crural arch or Poupart's ligament. OPERATION FOB, STRANGULATED FEMORAL HERNIA. The remedies for the relief of strangulated femoral hernia do not differ from those made use of in inguinal or any other species of hernia; they are, the taxis, chloroform, bleeding, tobacco enema, the warm bath, cold appUcations &c. It is necessary, however, that these remedies should be had recourse to without delay, as this form of hernia, when strangulated, more rapidly hastens to a fatal ter- mination than any other. Sir A. Cooper has met with one case in which death took place in seventeen hours after the commencement of the strangulation, and other writers record similar instances. When making use of the taxis, two circumstances are to be particularly attended to, namely, the position of the patient, and the direction in which we press the tumour. •The patient should be placed in the semi-recumbeut posture, and the thigh flexed on the abdomen and rotated inwards; thus Poupart's ligament wiU be completely re- laxed, so as to facilitate considerably the reduction ot tlie ^%he next thing to be attended to is the direction which the hernia has taken from the abdomen We should recollect that, as it rests on the external obhque muscle above Poupart's ligament, the fundus of the hernia lies directly in front of its neck; we should therefore hi. draw the tumour downwards until we have brought it opposite the cribriform fascia, then press it backwards through this, and then upwards through the femoral ring Should we, forgetting the course of the hernia, press it ai first either backwards or upwards, our efforts will be in- effectual and highly injurious, if not fatal, to the patient, as it is possible that the intestine may be ruptured by such ""'It"cannot be too firmly impressed on the mind of the practitioner that many diseases may be confounded with a femoral hernia, and that a correct diagnosis should Dc