DISEASES OF BONES. 629 It is in this, the early stage of the disease, that treat- ment will be found most effectual in arresting the progress of the disease. For this purpose, strict rest in tiie hori- zontal position should be enjoined, and at the same time the patient should have the advantage of good air and diet. The state of the stomach and bowels should be also at- tended to. Leeches should be applied in the neighbour- hood of the diseased vertebrae, and after their application an issue inserted on one side at least of the spine, the other side being retained for the occasional application or blisters and leeches if necessary. If the disease be not arrested in the first, it proceeds to the second stage. This is characterised by a curvature of the spine and the formation of an abscess. The curvature ot the spine ensues from the destruction of the bodies of the vertebras, when the spine bends beneath the weight ot the head and upper extremities. The curve is always concave forwards and convex backwards, except in a few cases, where but one side of the bodies of tlie vertebra i. removed, when a lateral curve is formed. The extent of the curve vanes according to the number of vertebrae aftected; thus, if but one or two be removed, it will be angular but if several, it will be much more extensive Ihe limbs now generally become paralysed, having lost the tonic condition described as existing in the fiist sta-e and remaining flaccid in any position in which they nfav be placed Ihis condition is produced by pressure on the spmal marrow, occasioned either by the displaced bones or by an effusion into the spinal canal; or it may be caused by a diseased state of the spinal marrow the result of the inflammatory action. marroyv. The abscess which forms in this disease collects in it« immediate neighbourhood, but may present itself at some d stant po.nt. The usual course described, is in the si eTth of the psoas muscle, which conducts it beneath Poupa t's ligament into the upper and inner part of the thi^h hence called psoas abscess. The matter niay point in oth r e! So'lyX Ur:rh 'p\r^ '"-^'^^ "^"'^ lumbar regions postenorly, by he side of the rectum or under the o-luteus trs'iatic'ro? li ""'^^ outwards through the stmt c notch. Tiie course of the abscess is much influenced by the usual position of the patient; JhisHf