180 ANATOMY. A small branch near the wrist passes over the annular ligament to the skin of the palm of the hand. The terminal digital branches are five; and, with a branch from the ulnar, form the supei-ficial palmar arch of nerves : The first goes along the outside of the thumb, to its extremity, giving filaments to the abductor, opponens, and half the flexor brevis. The second runs along the inside of the thumb. The third gives filaments to the abductor indicis and first lumbricalis, and runs along the outside of the index finger. The fourth takes the course of the second metacarpal space, gives a filament to the second lumbricahs, and bifurcates to supply the opposed sides of the index and middle fingers. The fifth lies in the next metacarpal space, and bifurcates to supply the opposed sides of the middle and ring fingers; this branch commu- nicates with the ulnar nerve, as before mentioned. The musculo-spiral or radial nerve, generally the largest branch of the brachial plexus, emerging from its centre and posterior part, soon after its origin inclines down- •wards, outwards, and backwards, winds round the humerus, accompanied by the superior profunda artery; it next appears between the supinator longus and brachialis anticus, between which it runs as far as the elbow, where it divides into an anterior or external and a deep-seated branch. The anterior brancli descends with the supmator longus muscle, and. at about the middle third of the fore-arm, arrives at the outer side of the radial artery, which it accompanies for about two or three inches ; it then leaves it, passing under the supinator muscle, running superficially over the extensor muscles of the thumb, and just above the wrist, dividing into terminal branches which reach the back of the hand. The filaments from it are- Terminal filaments, generally three in number; one to the radial side of the thumb. , ^ , x. t j *i „ One bifurcates to supply the ulnar side of the thumb and the radial side of the iudex finger. , ., . ^, . , , The third bifurcates to supply the opposed sides of the index and middle fingers, and occasionally a fourth supphes the opposed sides ot the middle and ring fingers. The deep-seated branch, (posterior interosseous,) larger than the other, passes backwards and downwards beneath the supinator longus and two radial extensors, then per- forates the supinator brevis, and divides into several hla- nients. Some to the extensors of the carpus thumb and fingers.