Ill MUSCLES OF THE XECK. PlERrGOIDEUS EXTEKXrS. Or. Outer side of the external pterygoid plate, and from the crest on the great aia of the sphenoid bone. Ins. Into the anterior and internal part of the neck of the lower jaw, the inter-articular cartilage, and inferior synovial membrane. Use. To rotate the lower jaw, carry it forwards, and to draw forwards the inter-ar- ticular cartilage, one alone act- ing, moves the jaw towards the opposite side. MUSCLES ON THE ANTERIOR AND LATERAL PARTS OF THE NECK. PLATTS5IA--MT0IDES. Or. The cellular membrane covering the upper and outer part of the del- toid and great pectoral muscles. Im. The chin, the fascia along the side of the lower jaw, and the fascia covering the parotid gland. Some of its fibres ascend to blend with the depressor an- guli oris, the zygomatic and or- bicularis palpebrarum. Use. To depress the angle of the mouth and lower jaw, to steady the head in carrying heavy weights upon it, an^ to compress and to biud down the soft parts of the side of the neck. Sterno-cleido mastoideus. Or. Tendinous from upper and anterior part of the first bone of the sternum, and fleshy from sternal thurd, sometimes half of the clavicle. In.%. Upper part of the mas- toid process and external third of the superior transverse ridge of the occi])ital bone. Use. The anterior fibres -will turn the face to the opposite side, the posterior fibres will draw the head towards the chest; the two muscles will bring the head forwards, but if the ex- tensor muscles of the neck be in action, thej may carry the head stdJ further backwards, as in tetanus. Sterno-htoideus. Ot. Pos- terior surface of the first bone of the sternum, the cartilage of the first rib, the sternal end of cla- vicle, and the sterno-clavicidar capsule. Ins. The lower border of the body of the os hyoides. U.ie. To depress the os hy- oides, and with it the larynx. The sterno-hyoid muscles con- verge towards each other. Sterno-thtroibeus. Or. Posterior surface of the first bone of the sternum and the cai-tilage of the second rib. Ins. Oblique line on the ala of the thyroid cartilage. Use. To depress the larynx. The sterno-thyroid muscles di- verge sUghtly from each other. Osio-HToiDErs. Or. Behind the semi-lunar notch in the supe- nor costa of scapula, from the bgament which passes over the notch, from the base of the cora- coid process, and sometimes from the acromial end of the clavicle. Ins. Lower border of the os hyoides, at the junction of its body and the great cornu. Use. To depress the os hy- oides, and draw down the larynx