TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. 675 part of the head, at or immediately after birth, as a bright spot on the skin, or as a small tumour immediately beneath it, the skin being likewise engaged. Sometimes the disease remains through life -withoutgiving the patient uneasiness; but more frequently it enlarges in size until it causes great deformity and inconvenience. Should it continue to increase, the integuments become thinned, and at length giving way, a discharge of blood takes place, which, if not restrained, may prove fatal. The disease is easily distinguished, being subcutaneous; the tumour is of a bright-red or sometimes livid colour, attended generally with pulsation, and feels, when com- pressed between the fingers, like a "bag of earth- worms." Aneurism by anastomosis may be divided into the arterial, venous, or mixed, according as the- tumour is formed of arteries, veins, or both these vessels. The venous is of a darker colour than the arterial, and does not possess pulsation; it is not so liable to sudden increase, and is therefore not so dangerous an affection. The mucous membranes are the seat of this disease, as -well as the ekin. The treatment recommended for aneurism by anasto- mosis is exceedingly variable, as follows: Excision of the tumour, taking care to cut beyond the diseased mass, for if cut into, its vessels do not contract, and violent haemorrhage is the consequence. Tying the artery leading to the tumour.—Ihxs, opera- tion IS falling into disuse from the very partial success that has hitherto attended its adoption. Passing one, two, or more setons through the tumour and allowing them to remain until they have induced intlammation, which, terminating by efi-usion of Ivmnh into the cells of the tumour, causes their obliteration and the removal of the disease. ' The introduction of vaccine virus at different points of the tumour, which acts on similar principles. The passing of a^needle through the tumour, and obliterating'finali^ a sSoflrY-^'-'P/^''^ '^"'""^""^ it causes neatl Inf„ i U^""' "'A^'"^^ory action is set up under- neath, and a healthy condition of parts often supervenes.