SURGEKY. 554 treatment of these tumours is similar to tbat recommended for umbilical hernia. Some other varieties of hernia are detailed in more voluminous works, but are extremely rare, and some of them are not recognisable during life, and, if so, not curable by medical art. These anomalous species are obturator, sciatic, perineal, and pudendal hernise. REDUCIBLE HEENIA. There is no period of hfe wholly exempt from hernia; it may occur in the infant, the adult, or the aged; it is, however, much more frequent at the first and last periods than at the second. Several circumstances conspire to render hernia, espe- cially the inguinal species, of frequent occurrence in the infant. Thus the open state of the inguinal or spermatic canal, which has just transmitted the testicle into the scrotum, the want of adhesion in the upper part of the tunica vaginahs, and the trifling degree of obliquity in the canal, which is at this period of very short extent indeed, favour the descent of a hernial tumour. In addition to these may be enumerated the want of development of the pelvic cavity, which as yet is not sufficiently capacious to receive the small intestines, which thus are lodged m the abdomen, and are therefore the more directly under the influence of the abdominal muscles and diaphragm so fre- quently called into exercise in the infant. At this period of life too, the pelvis descends almost verticaUy from the spinal' column, so that its superior opening looks almost directly forwards. Thus the viscera want the support of the brim of the pelvis inferiorly, and ar^protruded against the abdominal parietes, which frequently give way. In the adult this combination of circumstances no longer exists: the spermatic canal becomes elongated, by the spreading outwards of the crests of the ilia ; the tunica vaginalis is closed superiorly; the pelvis has become sut- ficiently developed for the reception of the mtestmes and its anterior brim, from its great increase in size, and tlie peculiar rotation which the pelvis is known to undergo as the individual advances to maturity, receives the impulse com- municated to the intestines from above by the diaphragm and abdominal muscles. Here too the panetes of the