PAROTID REGION. 309 Thus, prolongations of the gland are met with, surrounding the styloid process, between the internal lateral ligament and the lower jaw, in the posterior part of the glenoid cavity, and between the pterygoid muscles ; consequently, the parotid gland, from the great depth to which it extends, has most important relations, namely, the internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, the eighth and ninth nerves, and the third division of the fifth nerve, relations which must render the removal of this gland one of the most formidable operations in surgery. The great strength of the cervical fascia covering the outer surface of the parotid gland, has much influence on its diseases. When the gland becomes attacked with acute inflammation {cynanche parotidea), the distension of the gland is resisted by the fascia; this adds much to the sufferings of the patient, from the gland bemg forced inwards so as to compress the numerous nerves con- nected with it. The motions of the lower jaw and tongue are also interfered with from the same cause, so that the acts of mastication and deglutition are with difiiculty performed. If the inflammation be not controlled by appropriate treatment, matter forms, which is bound down by the fascia, and is thus prevented from coming to the surface; it spreads beneath the fascia, and may undermine this to a considerable extent. More frequently the matter bursts through the deficiency in the anterior part of the meatus auditorius externus, and is thus discharged by the external ear. It is the duty of the surgeon to anticipate the painful process and relieve the sufferings of his patient by an eariy incision through the fascia. In doing so, it has been recommended to cut down, first on the fascia, to make a small puncture into it, and then dilate this on the director. This pre- caution is advised on account of the relation of the external carotid artery; we question if it be necessarv, as the matter as weU as a portion of the gland, separates the vessel from the fascia. On removing the cervical fascia, the structure of the parotid gland is exhibited. It is composed, like most conglomerate glands, of a number of granules or acini separated by prolongations of the cervical fascia, so as to render them distinct from each other, and give to the gland an n-regular granulated appearance. These acini are composed each of a small artery, vein nerve ah sorbent, and deferent duct; and these ducts collect the salivary fluid and convey it to the common duct, named Stenoman or the parotid duct. This duct then ar sing by a number of smaller ducts or radicles, emerges from the