DISEASES OP JOINTS. 639 cess in the bones of the articulation, followed by false anchylosis, which is formed by a condensation of the liga- ments. Bony or true anchylosis rarely takes place. More frequently a false joint is formed between the upper extre- mity of the femur and the dorsum of the ilium against which it rests. In morbus coxae both the head of the femur and the acetabulum become carious; the former is absorbed, the latter is much widened. In some cases the caries m'akes its way through the bottom of the acetabulum, when col- lections of matter form in the interior of the pelvis. Morbus coxa senilis.—This disease appears only in old persons; it is characterised by a dull, heavy pain in the hip-joint, followed by weakness and wasting of the limbs. The pam is increased by change in the weather, particu- larly when It is damp and cold. The great trochanter soon projects more than in its natural condition. The disease consists in a chronic enlargement of the head of the femur the cartilage of which is absorbed, its place being supplied by a hard, ivory-like deposit; the neck of the bone is short- ened, the ligamentum teres absorbed, and the acetabulum widened Abscesses do not form in it, nor is it ever fatal bimilar diseases to those described as affecting the hip and knee-joint attack the other joints of the body Their general course is the same. They are seldom, however, tatal, although often requiring amputation to preserve the patient s life In diseases of the elbow the swelling occurs principally above the olecranon, under the extensor mus- cles of the forearm, in the ankle it is between the lateral ligaments and the tendons in front of the joint. A carion<, «)ndition of the carpal and tarsal bones is frequently met TFoundsof the joints.—When the interior of a ioint is wounded the synovia escapes. The wound should be closed immediately, and made to unite, if possible, by the fir t in tention ; the most perfect rest shoild be enjoined and aU Foreiffn Bodies in joints.—Thekneo-^mM 4. i- x inn. ..face of t,:tZTZlL':ZtZt ^^d^;