220 ANATOMY. from tlie posterior nares, two into the Eustachian tubes, one into the mouth, one into the larynx, and the seventh into the oesophagus. Tlie oesophagus is a cylindrical tube, the narrowest por- tion of the alimentary canal, extending from the pharynx to the stomach, from about the fifth cervical vertebra to opposite the tenth dorsal. It is at first placed behind the trachea; in the chest it is inclosed in the posterior mediastinum, at first rather to the right of the arch of the aorta: about the centre of the chest it inclines over the aorta, and lower down is in front, but a little to the left of it. It does not pass exactly in the mesian Une, for its upper part, in the chest, is a 'little inclined to the right, and its lower part to the left side. It has two series of muscular fibres, circular internally and longitudinal exter- nally, the latter of which are in some degree collected together, so as to form three fasciculi, one on each side, and one in front; it is lined internally by a mucous mem- brane, continuous from the mouth and pharynx, also by a squamous epithelium, and is studded with numerous glands, named oesophageal glands. It receives its blood from the inferior thyroid arteries in the neck, but in the thorax has arteries direct from the aorta It is accompanied in most of its course by the par vagum, which, with the sympathetic in the upper part of the chest, forms a plexus around it, caUed oesophageal. LARYNX, TKACHEA, AND BRONCHI. The Larynx is composed of cartilages, numerous liga- ments, muscles, and lining mucous membrane, with its arteries, veins, nerves, and absorbents. ^ ' . It is situated in the front and middle of the neck, ante- rior to the pharynx; connected with the os lijoides superiorly, with the trachea inferiorly, and bounded laterally by muscles and the large vessels of the neck. It is nearly a third larger in the male than in the female. The thyroid cartilage, which is the largest, is placed anteriorly. It is formed by two lateral portions of a quadrangular shape, united anteriorly at an acute angle, where they form a projection, termed j)omum Adanu, most prominent in the male. At its superior posterior angle, on each side, there is a projecting poriiou named its