440 PHYSIOLOGY. lobules; from thence it passes along the excretory ducts, called the pori hiliarii, into the hepatic duct; this, with the cystic duct, forms the ductus communis choledochus, which terminates in the duodenum. It is considered that the blood of the vena portse, having more carbon and hydrogen than that of the hepatic artery, is more proper for furnishing the elements of bile. Excretion of Bile.—When digestion is not going on, the opening of the ductus choledochus is closed by the contrac- tion of the duodenum ; and the bile therefore, not finding access into it, regurgitates into the gall-bladder, where it ac- quires greater consistence. When the duodenum is dis- tended with chyme, the irritation it produces is propagated to the gall-bladder, the parietes of which contract, and force the bile along the cystic duct into the ductus com- munis choledochus, and from thence into the duodenum. Use of the Bile.—The bile precipitates the faeces from the chyle, and excites the peristaltic motion of the intes- tines ; it is also considered to be an outlet for carbon and hydrogen from the body. Secretion of Urine.—The urine is secreted by the minute branches of the renal artery into the tubuli uriniferi: then passes through the papillce or mammary processes, into the calices. These uniting, form three or four principal tubes, named infundibula, which terminate in ih.Q pelvis of the kidney. The pelvis contracting forms the ureter, which carries the urine to the bladder. The oblique manner in which the ureters penetrate the bladder prevents the urine from returning; the inner membrane of the bladder lying over the opening produces the effect of a valve. It is also believed to be intended to prevent such over-distension of the bladder as might lead to rupture of it. Excretion of Urine.—As soon as there is a certain quantity of urine in the bladder, we feel an inclination to discharge it. This we effect partly by the contraction of the bladder itself, and partly by the action of the abdominal muscles and diaphragm, which press the intestines against the bladder. The urine is the principal outlet for nitrogen from the system. Secretion of Semen. —'The semen is secreted by the minute branches of the spermatic arteries in the testicles.