SURGERY. 686 in the early stage, but is seldom of much avail, as the disease is one which affects the body generally, and is sure to manifest itself in several parts. TTJMOtJRS OF SECRETING GLANDS. These are more frequent in the mamma, testis, and sali- vary glands. Carcinoma is very frequent in the breast, rare in the testis. Fungoid disease, on the contrary, is more common in the testis. TUMOURS OF THE BREAST. These are deserving of great attention, as many of them, not malignant, are often mistaken for cancer. The most valuable remarks upon these are from Sir A. Cooper and Mr. Travers. The former author divides them mto ma- licrnant and non-malignant: of the latter seven species are described, and are, 1, hydatid disease; 2, chronic mammary tumour; 3, cartilaginous osseous tumour; 4, adipose tumour; .5, the large pendulous breast; 6 scrofulous swelling; 7, the irritable tumour. Hydatid tumour. (Vide p. 507.)—In its early stage it is distinguished from scrofulous tumour by its greater hardness, and from scirrhous by more softness. In its advanced stage, it is distinguished by the globular eleva- tions on its surface, by its great size and freedom from pain. Chronic mammary tumour. (Vide p. 507.) . Cartilaginous or osseous tumour is very rare, and is known by its extreme hardness, absence of much pain, and slow progess. , , ^ ^ * Scrofulous tumour occurs in early life, before twenty- five years of age, and is connected with a general scrofu- lous diathesis. The tumour is large, irregular, indistmct not painful, varies in size, increasing and diminishmg at different times, it rarely suppurates. Surgical operations are not requisite: it requires mere constitutional remedies. , Irritable tumour occurs before the middle age in deli- cate and irritable habits. The tumour is not large nor well defined, but painful; sometimes accompanied witn general swelling of the breast and fever, which subside and leave the original tumour. It is not mahgnaut. The adipose tumour occurs in fleshy healthy females. It is distinguished from the hydatid and scirrhous breast