REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY, 354 of the presence of fibrinous coagula, which are matted together and conceal the artery, or even may be mistaken for the artery itself. Under these circumstances, the tourniquet should he slackened, when the blood will escape from the wound in the artery, and thus point out its situation. The artery being now separated from the surrounding parts, the aneurism needle armed with a double thread is to be passed beneath it; the needle being withdrawn, one thread is to be tied around the vessel above, the other below the wound in its coats, and the edges of the wound brought together in the usual way. As the brachial artery frequently divides, high up in the arm, into the radial and ulnar arteries, it may happen that the operator, in performing either of the preceding operations, will meet with two vessels running parallel, or may possibly meet with but one, and that, perhaps, the vessel which does not require the ligature. This vrill point out to the surgeon the necessity of ascertaining, by compressing it between his fingers previously to tying the vessel, whether the vessel he is about to tie, commands the circu- lation in the aneurismal tumour. Should it do so the arterj- may at once be tied; if not, another vessel exists which must he secured. It may be necessary to tie both vessels, as they not un- frequently communicate by means of a transverse branch in their course down the arm, which will render the tying of one vessel only, perfectly useless. The branches of the brachial artery are the superior profunda, the inferior profunda, and the anastomotica magna. The arteria profunda superior is the first and largest branch of the brachial, from the posterior part of which it arises, a little below the tendon of the teres major; then descends backwards and outwards, winds around the posterior surface of the humerus, between the second and third head of the triceps, and accompanied by the musculo- spiral nerve ; and about the middle of the arm divides into two branches, an anterior and posterior. The posterior branch, smaller, passes downwards and backwards through the substance of the triceps muscle to the outer and back part of the elbow, where it terminates in numerous branches, which anastomose in the substance of the anconeus, with the posterior recurrent interosseous artery, and with the other arteries about the elbow-joint. The anterior or musculo-spiral branch descends with (but behind) the musculo-spiral nerve, in the groove on the anterior surface of the arm, between the supinator radii longus and extensor carpi radialis muscles on the outer side, and the brachialis anticus on the inner side, as far as the elbow-joint, where it anastomoses with the radial recurrent artery. In its course the superior profunda artery gives ofi"