ULCERS, 455 whether this arise from the state of the parts or of the constitution—Indolent ulcers. 5. Ulcers in parts which have acquired some specific action, either from a diseased state of the parts or of the constitution—Syphilitic, scrofulous ulcers, &c. 6. Ulcers in parts which are prevented from healing by a varicose state of the superficial veins of the upper part of the limb—Varicose ulcers. Simple, ■purulent, or healthy Ulcers.—Characters : The granulations are small, numerous, conical, and of a bright florid red colour, and rise a little above the surrounding edge. The discharge is healthy pus, of a whitish colour, thick consistence, readily separates from the surface of the sore, and is composed of small globules, swimming in a transparent fluid. Applications: Dry lint, simple oint- ment, cold water dressing, and, in some cases. Lot. Sulph Zinci, Lot, Sulph. Cupri. W?ak C/7ce?-5.—Characters: The granulations are large, round, but of a soft texture, and present a glossy semi- ' transparent appearance. The granulations frequently rise above the level of the surrounding skin, and are sometimes suddenly absorbed. Applications: Ung. Hyd.-nitrico-oxydi Lotio Sulph. Zinci, Lot. Sulph. Cupri, Lotio flava. Liquor talcis, Lotio Calcis Chlormatse, Adhesive straps and roller Irritable, Gangrenous, or Sloughing Ulcers.—Characters • Ihis ulcer is geueraUy circular in shape. The margin of the surrounding skin is jagged, and either terminates in an edge that is sharp and undefined, or presents a well-marked defined edge, having a nibbled appearance. The bottom of the ulcer is irregular, and does not present granulations but is covered with a whitish spongy substance, and trequently presents a number of bloody spots. The dis charge is thm and ichorous. Everything that touches the sore gives pam, and commonly makes it bleed. The nain IS very severe, and liable to exacerbations. When irritable ulcers partake of the gangrenous or sloughing cha fcter repeated sloughs form, preceded by an increase Tn £ painful symptoms, until the sore Lsumes a T' e s ze Apphcatrons: These ulcers are treated either by soothing remedies or by caustics. The former act by lessening he mflammation,the latter destroy the surface of th o ^and bring the inflammation to a termination by the formation