400 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. The deep muscles are four, viz. Tibialis posticus, Flexor longiis digitorum. Flexor longus pollicis, Popliteus. On raising the soleus muscle the deep fascia of the leg is exposed: this covers the deep muscles and vessels of the leg; it descends superiorly from the expansion derived from the semimembranous muscle, and which covers the popHteus muscle ; is attached to the tibia and fibula, and to the deep muscles. Inferiorly it becomes strong, crosses the tendons of the deep muscles, and becomes attached to the internal annular ligament of the ankle-joint. Beneath the deep fascia of the leg lie the deep vessels and nerves of the leg. We shall now, therefore, proceed to the consideration of the vessels and nerves that supply the leg and foot, and then complete the anatomy of the popliteal artery, and, with it, of the vessels of the lower extremity. "We have stated that the popliteal artery divides at the lower margin of the popliteus muscle into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries : of these the former is the smaller of the two and supphes the parts on the anterior surface of the leg and dorsum of the foot, while the latter supplies the back of the leg and the sole of the foot. We shall first describe THE ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. This artery passes directly forwards from the bifurca- tion of the popliteal, through the deficiency in the upper part of the interosseous membrane of the leg, close to the inner side of the neck of the fibula, and gains the anterior surface of the leg; it then descends inwards in front of and resting on the interosseous membrane, passes over the ankle-joint beneath the annular ligament, crosses the dorsum of the foot near to its inner edge, runs forwards, and gaining the cleft between the first and second meta- tarsal bones, divides into its two terminating branches, the arteria comnmnicans vel profunda, and the arteria pollicis. A line, drawn from the licad of the fibula to the base of the great toe, will run nearly parallel to the course of the anterior tibial artery. In the superior third of the leg the