350 REGIONAL AND SUfiGICAL ANATOMY. THE BUACHIAL ARTERY, the continuation of the axillary, commences at the lower margin of the teres major and latissimus dorsi muscles ; it passes downwards, forwards, and outwards, lying first on the inner surface of the arm, then on its anterior surface; then descends below the joint of the elbow, where it sinks into a triangular fossa, and terminates, opposite the coro- noid process of the ulna, by dividing into the radial and ulnar arteries. In this course it is comparatively superficial, being covered only by the integuments and fascia. In the middle of the arm it is a little overlapped, at least in strong muscular subjects, by the inner edge of the biceps muscle; at the bend of the elbow it is more deeply seated, and is covered by a strong aponeurosis (the semilunar fascia), derived from the tendon of the biceps muscle; it is here also a little overlapped by the pronator radii teres muscle. In the upper part of the arm the brachial artery rests on the muscLilo-spiral nerve and the superior profunda artery, which separate it from the triceps muscle. In the middle third it rests on the tendon of the coraco-brachialis, and in the remainder of its course on the bracliialis anticus muscle. In the first part of its course the brachial artery lies posterior to the coraco-brachialis muscle, between it and the triceps; but, as it descends, it gets in front of the former, and lies between the biceps and triceps. In the lower part of its course it is separated from the latter muscle by the internal inter-muscular ligament. Two vense comites, one on each side, accompany the brachial artery, occasionally, also, the basihc vein runs in the course of the artery, but superficial to the fascia, as far as the axiUa. The median nerve accompanies the brachial artery throughout; at first the nerve lies to its outer side, but as it descends it crosses the artery, passing in general super- ficial to, but sometimes behind it, and gets to its inner side. The external cutaneous nerve lies, for a short distance, to the outer side of the brachial artery near to its commencement, but soon leaves it to perforate the coraco-brachialis muscle. The ulnar nerve lies to the inner side of the brachial artery above, but, as it descends,