ANATOMY. 116 MUSCLES OF THE THOEAX. Pectobalis MAJOK. Or. Ster- nal half of the clavicle, anterior surface of half the sternum, the cartilages of the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth trae ribs, and from aponeurosis common to it and the external oblique muscle. . ^ .X Ins. By a flat tendon mto the anterior edge of the bicipital groove, and by an aponeurosis into the fascia of the upper arm and tendon of the deltoid. Use. To draw the arm for- wards and inwards; and, if sepa- rate parts act, to raise the arm, draw it forwards, or bring it to the side. When the arm is raised it elevates the ribs and sternum, and is useful in chmb- ing 'Pectoealis mince. Or. Ex- ternal surfaces and upper edges of the third, fom-th, and htth true ribs, sometimes from the second beyond their cai-tilages. Ins. Inner and upper surface of the coracoid process of sca- "^"^^Use. To draw the shoulder forwards, inwards, and down- wards, and to elevate the ribs in forced inspiration. Stjbclavius. Or. Cartilage of the first rib. Ins. External half of the in- ferior surface of the clavicle, ex- tending to between conoid and trapezoid ligaments. Use. To bring the clavicle downwards and forwards, or raise the first rib. Sereattjs MAGNUS. Ur. isy i.jrrlit or nine fleshy slips, from eight or nine superior ribs. Ins. Base of sca))ula, espe- cially superior and inferior angles. , Use. To carry the scapula forwards, and elevate the shoul- der-joint, and when the shoulder is fixed to elevate the ribs. Inteecostales are 22 in num- ber on each side: 11 internal, and 11 external. External. Or. Inferior edge of each rib, commencing at the transverse processes of the ver- Ins. External lip of the supe- rior edge of the rib beneath, ex- tending as far as the costal ex- tremities of the cartilages. Inteenal. Or. At sternum from the inner lip of the lower edge of each cai'tilage and rib as far as the angle. Ins. Inner lip of the superior edge of the cai-tilage and rib beneath. , ., , Use. To raise the nbs, when the first and second are fixed by the scaleni. Levatobes costabcm. Ur. Extremity of each dorsal trans- verse process. . -u Ins. Upner edge of the rib below, between its tubercle and angle. . Use. To raise the nbs. TbIANGULAEIS STEKNl. Or. Posterior surface and edge of the lower part of the sternum and eusiform cartilage. Ins. Cartilages of fourth, hltli, and sixth ribs. Use To draw down tlie ribs towards the cnsiforin carti- lage.