ANEURISM. 665 and inflamed, and are frequently so changed as scarcely to admit of recognition. Lastly,, the cartilages and bones are removed, the bones presenting a rough irregular appearance, and the cartilages as in the intervertebral substance of the spine, projecting beyond the osseous structure. The interior of the sac is nearly filled with coagulated blood, the outer portion of which is arranged in concentric irregular laminae of fibrine of a whitish col QUI-, which gradually diminishes to the centre of the sac, where the blood is in clots of a dark venous colour. The opening from the artery into the sac varies much in size, and presents its edges smooth and continuous (apparently) with the parietes of the sac, or in some places jagged and irregular. As a mistake in our diagnosis of an aneurism is one of the most serious to which the surgeon is exposed, much caution is necessary in coming to a correct conclusion on the subject. In the second stage 'but little difficulty exists, at least when the aneurism has approached the surface; but not so in the more advanced stage. We have already said, that in this the aneurismal sac being filled with coagula, loses its pulsation; how likely, then, is the practitioner to mistalce it for a fungous or other tumour, or a chronic collection of matter, and either plunge his lancet into its interior in the latter case, or proceed to the operation of amputation in the former. It is sufficient to say, that such unfortunate mistakes have occurred. Again, other tumours may have a pulsation commu- nicated to them from a neighbouring artery, and may be mistaken for an aneurism. Where we can draw the tumour from off the artery, the pulsation ceases, and the error is thus avoided, but this we cannot always effect: a chronic abscess may present itself in the lumbar region, and have a pulsation communicated to it by the aorta, or there may be no pulsation in it, and yet how are we' to decide? In many cases the fluctuation of the matter will be such as to distinguish, but this is not always pre- sent. So great, indeed, has the difficulty been found in some cases, that the surgeon is obliged to pass a grooved needle mto the swelling, and thus ascertain its nature by the escape of its contents along the groove. If the tumour