DIGASTRIC OR SUPRA-HYOID REGION. 299 the patient, from the blood making its way into the interior of the larynx. Sir E. Home recommended the tying of the thyroid arteries for the cure of bronchocele. This operation is not now performed. The labial and lingual arteries are met with in the digastric or supra-hyoid region, and will be there described. THE DIGASTRIC OR SUPRA-HYOID REGION. This is a triangular space, situated at the upper and lateral part of the neck, between the digastric muscle below, the inferior maxilla above, and contains the sub- maxillary and sublingual glands, the external and internal carotid, lingual and facial arteries, the lingual and gusta- tory nerves, and several muscles. Its apex, inferiorly, is formed by the tendon of the digastric muscle, where it is attached to the cornu of the os hyoides; its base, above, IS formed by the body of the inferior maxilla, and a line drawn from it backwards to the mastoid process; it is bounded, in front by the anterior belly of the digastric behmd by the posterior belly of this muscle. Some anatomists have described this space as being divided into two, an anterior and a posterior, by the stylo-maxillary / /j,p'»ent, the latter containing the parotid gland, &c. This we consider not to be in strict accordance with the anatomy of the parts, as the parotid gland lies almost wholly above the base of the digastric space; we shall therefore consider it as a distinct space, under the name or the parotid region. On raising the integument, platysma, and cervical fascia which form the superficial coverings of the digastric space' the submaxillary gland is brought into view. This is the second in size of the salivary glands, the parotid beino- the largest, and the sublingual the smallest. It lies imbedded in the digastric space; bounded above by the inferior maxilla; below by the tendon of the digastric, which iJ occasionally overlaps a little; behind by'^the insertion of the internal pterygoid muscle and the stylo-maxillarv ligament, the first of which separates it from the parotid gland ; and in front by the anterior belly of the digastric muscle. The submaxillary gland rests against the^my^! hyoid and hyo-glossus muscles, and is covered by theS platysma, superficial and deep, and cervical fascia, wS