ULCERS. 457 much effect on the healing of ulcers: thus, if they be situated on the lower extremity, the patient should keep the hmb as much as possible in the horizontal position ; this not only relaxes the muscles of the part, but also favours the return of the venous blood. Ulcers are formed either from a destruction of the skin, as in cases of injury, or from the gradual absorption of the skin, as in the bursting of an abscess. The open surface inflames, throws out coagulable lymph, this soon becomes organised and forms granulations. Some assert that the granulations are found beneath the layer of lymph, which becomes absorbed by them. Ulcers heal by cicatrization; in this process the granulations coalesce and contract the size of the ulcer; new skin is then formed by the deposit of lymph, generally from the circumference to the centre of the sore. The rete mucosum is not formed for some time after the healing of the ulcer. The cicatrix IS at first redder than the natural skin, but afterwards becomes less so, and frequently presents a callous surface l\oJi me tangere, or Lupus, is a pecuhar dangerous form of ulceration which generally commences in the glands or toIJicles of tiie nose, those small cavities which secrete the sebaceous matter; the ulceration extending deeply, at last even the cartilages of the nose, the skin of the face, and even bones, may become destroyed. The treatment of these cases is very difficult and unsatisfactory. The best apphcations to arrest the progress of the sore and to set up more healthy action, are powerful escharotics, such as ni ricacid pernitrate of mercury, caustic potash or Hme^ chlor.de of zinc, and arsenious acid. The latter has obtained most favour, and should be appHed to the pm m the form of apaste_or ointment, in the proportion o oj of the arsenic to 5J of menstruum, and this should be left on for twelve hour^, after which an eschar w U be formed and thrown off, and the parts may take on Tmore healthy action, and then be tbiiowed up with niUd r remedies, such as poultices, weak solution oT iiUrate of silver. &c. Good nourishment, pure air nn,1 Always demanded i.i these cases whi.h ' "^f' ""'^ the fa'ce, become not unfi^qrentV S! ""''''"'^ 20