620 SURGERY. COMPOUND FRACTURES are those in which one or more bones are broken, and the fracture communicates with the external air by means of a wound in the soft parts. The treatment of a compound fracture consists in placing the broken bones in apposition, and healing the external wound by the first intention, so as to convert the compound into a simple fracture. This is best accomplished by bringing the edges of the wound together with adhesive plaster, and with sutures if neces- sary. Sir A. Cooper recommends the part to be then covered with a portion of lint wet in the blood of the patient. It is not often that the surgeon is able to accom- plish this desirable object, as the soft parts are in general so injured by the violence that produced the fracture, that they do not admit of being united by the first inten- tion; the bone, too, may protrude, and thus prevent the accomplishment of our object. As the lower end of the tibia, from its superficial posi- tion and the obliquity of its fracture, is more frequently the seat of a compound fracture, we shall select it to lay down the principles which should guide us in the treat- ment of this fracture. Let us say then that from some external violence the tibia is fractured in its lower third, and that the upper portion of the bone, which is almost universally the case, protrudes. The soft parts are in general covered with blood, and it may be with dirt, and present a dark livid appearance caused by the injury, and the effusion of blood beneath the skin. If possible, the bone should be at once returned by extension, and counter-extension; but this cannot always be effected, as it is frequently so confined by the skin as to prevent its reduction; the wound should now be dilated where the constriction on the bone is greatest, that it may be reduced. If the bone cannot now be returned, the pro- truding end should be sawn off, and the wound closed. If any portions of bone are loose and detached, they should be at once removed. The limb is now to be placed iu the most convenient position, and all inflammatory symptoms treated by the antiphlogistic regimen. If the case should prove favorable, moderate inflammation of the wound takes place, followed by suppuration; at the end