683 OSSEOUS TUMOURS. PEEIOSTEAL TUMOURS. The periosteum becomes thickened from the effect of blows, rheumatism, and syphilis; but this does not come under the character of periosteal tumour. Tumours or excrescences of a permanent nature are sometimes produced from the condyles of the humerus and OS femoris. They somewhat resemble exostosis, but are not" of a bony nature. They are semitransparent, have a cartilaginous aspect, and occasionally contain a little earthy matter. They differ from periosteal exostosis in the fol- lowing respect, viz., they are diffused, irregular, and mo- derately hard, and may diminish and disappear. They sometimes occur on the dorsum of the foot, from the pressure of the boot, and require removal by the knife. OSSEOUS TUMOURS. These are divided by Sir A. Cooper into periosteal and medullary. Periosteal exostosis is characterised by hardness, re- gularity, slow growth, and want of sensibility. The point of attachment is narrow, resembling a neck to the tumour. If removed by operation, they are very prone to be repro- duced, unless a considerable portion of the bone from which they arise be removed. Medullary exostosis arises in the cancellous structure of bones, principally the long bones, and in scrofulous subjects. It first produces lameness, then an uniform swelling of the affected part, which increases very rapidly. The skin is only discoloured by the veins which become enlarged. The surface of the tumour feels hard, but on careful examination a number of soft spots may be found. In a short time ulceration takes place, and a quantity of watery pus with white flocculi, is discharged, the constitu- tion is soon worn out by the disease, unless it be removed by amputation. Maxillary exostosis of the spongy texture. This dis- ease affects more frequently the upper jaw, periosteal ex- ostosis the lower. It is a hard tumour of a rounded form, appearing on the outer surface of the bone, producing pro- minence of the cheek, if it is large. It is not discoloured nor painful, enlarges rapidly in young subjects, and often