667 TREATMENT OF ANEURISM, formed in tlie blood, and thus dispose to its deposit in the aneurismal sac. When an internal aneurism attains a large size and approaches the surface, as it frequently does, either on the anterior or posterior surface of the trunk, the use of cold applications will be found beneficial in restraining the inflammatory action of the skin. When the sac is likely to burst, the life of the patient may be prolonged by the use of adhesive straps, bandages, &c. External aneurism also may be treated on a similar principal, and by the application of a ligature on the artery leading to the tumour. In these aneurisms we are in general enabled to try the effects of pressure previously to resorting to an operation. Of external aneurisms the popliteal is the most frequent; it occurs in persons who from their avocations retain the limbs in the flexed positions, as in postilions, &c. The artery appears in such to accommodate itself to the flexed position of the joint; under these circumstances if any vio- lent exertion of the limb be made, the vessel gives way, and the aneurism is formed; yet the disease frequently appears in persons who have not been exposed to one or other of these causes. We shall select then a case of popliteal aneurism, and from this point out the treatment to be adopted in most cases of external aneurism. When the patient first presents himself, he is seldom in a fit condition for the attempting of any surgical measures ; by a few days' rest and the antiphlogistic regimen, such a change will be effected as wdl enable us to proceed with more active treatment. Compression should first be tried: this is to be effected by means of bandages applied round the limb, commencing at the toes, each of which should be included, as far as is possible, in a distinct bandage; the leg is then to be carefully bandaged, and a graduated compress being placed over the aneurismal tumour, the bandage is to be carried upwards round the thigh to the pelvis, one or more compresses being placed on the course of the femoral artery. By these means the blood will be prevented from entering the sac, its contents will become more solid, and the sides of the artery being compressed together, its obliteration may be expected. Notwithstanding that this plan of treatment has been frequently adopted, it has been seldom found successful;