ARTERIA FEMORALIS. 387 muscles, and descends in front of the insertions of the pectineus and adductor brevis, behind the tendon of the adductor longus, to its termination. The profunda artery in the first part of its course only is superficial, being covered by the integument and fascia. The branches of the profunda are the two circumflex arteries, the three perforating arteries, and the terminating branch. ArtericB circumflexce. These arteries, two in number, arise some- times by a common trunk, sometimes separately, from nearly opposite points of the profunda, sliortly after its origin. The external circumflex artery is in general the first; it runs out- wards, between the branches of the anterior crural nerve, in front of the psoas and iliac muscles, and behind the sartorius and rectus, and soon divides into branches, some of which ascend beneath the sartorius and tensor vagina; femoris, pass between the gluteus medius and minimus, towards the crest of the ilium, where they terminate in the supply of the gluteal muscles, and by anastomosing with the circumflexa ilii and gluteal arteries; other branches take a circular course around the outer side of the thigh, perforating the muscles in this situation, and arrive at the back of the thigh, where they anastomose with the branches ot the gluteal, sciatic, and internal circumflex arteries; the pnncipal branches of the external circumflex artery descend accompanied by branches of the anterior crural nerve, sink between the crurajus and vastus externus, and terminate in the supply of these muscles, also the rectus and the vastus internus anastomosing in these with the muscular branches of the femoral artery, and the articular arteries of the knee-joint. The internal circumflex artery, passes from its origin inwards and backwards, above the trochanter minor, through a triangular space, bounded above by the obturator externus, externally by the neck of the femur, and psoas and iliacus tendons, and internaUy by the adductors, reaches the back part of the thieh between the lower margin of the quadratus femoris and the upper edge of the adductor magnus, and terminates by anas- tomosing with the branches of the external circumflex, Jluted sciatic, and perforating arteries. In this course, the internal circumflex artery gives off numerous branches to the pect S adduc or brevis, longus, and magnus, obturator anr g acil s muscles, in which they anastomose with branches from the obturator artery; one or two small branches proceed fmm it through the notch in the inner edge of the acetabnlnm W f the cotyloid ligament, to the suiiplv of thriii, 7' f ' head of the fem'ur. and synovial rnSrane tL'Z" ™ ' circumflex arteries are exceedino-iv i>-roJi P'-* ^"^ frequently arise from ^^t^J^^ ^^^V" Arteries perforantes. These arteries thron n " . acn part ot the thigh. Pri,na arises opposite the lesser tro-