TJttlKARY CALCULI AND LITHOTOMY. 715 Calculi. 6. Amraonio-mag- nesian phosphate, with phosphate of lime. (Fusible calculus of Woollaston.) 7. Cystic oxide. External Character. Colour, white, resem- bling chalk. Surface uneven. Texture friable. Chemical Qualities. Before the blowpipe it fuses readily: is very soluble in di- lute hydrochloric acid. Colour, yellowish- white. Surface, smooth, but exhibits a crystalline appearance. Structure, crystalline, but not lamellated. Fracture, presents a glistening lustre. Before the blowpipe is decomposed, and gives out a strong peculiar odour; is soluble in acids and alkalies, forming crystals with both. It contains some sulphur. Many calculi, and indeed most, are not of one uniform composition, but consist of strata of two or three varieties, one forming a nucleus for other deposits; uric acid is more common as a nucleus than any other substance. Calculi thus constituted receive the name of alternating. The change may depend upon alteration in the diet, habit, and mode of living, on the morbid state set up in the bladder, and much upon the medicines which have been used for their removal. Urinary calculi are most frequent in children, less so in old persons, and least common in adult and middle age; more common in temperate than hot climates; in children they are most frequent amongst the poor and ill fed, but in old pei-sous more common in the rich, luxurious, and indolent. Females are less liable to cal- culus tban males, which may be partly explained by a small concretion more easily making its way through their short and dilatable meatus urinarius. Urinary calculus is more frequent in some districts than others; and locality likewise influences the species of the stone. Norwich is particularly remarkable for the number of stone cases, whereas there are other large towns where such have scarcely been heard of. Soldiers and sailors are com- paratively free from this disease, which fact is attributed to their active employment, regular diet, and free cuta-