THE BRAIN. J53 The Iter a tertio ad qiiartum ventriculim, called also the foramen commune posterius, aquceductus Sylvii, and canalis medius, is a small canal, leading, as its name denotes, from the third to the fourth ventricle; it passes over the pons varolii and under the posterior commissure, nates and testes, and Pineal gland. The foramen commune anterius is that canal by which the lateral ventricles communicate with the third; it is shaped like the letter Y, the two superior bars of which are (in the brain) anterior, whilst the inferior is posterior. This is occasioned by the two choroid plexuses, either of which has a separate foramen to pass through, afterwards uniting together and passing behind the anterior pillars or crura of the fornix as but one body. Under the posterior part of the velum will be found the Pineal gland, and inferiorly and somewhat posteriorly to this, the corpora qiiadrigemina. The corpora qiiadrigemina are four little, white, round bodies, connected intimately with each other, of which the anterior and superior pair are called the nates, the posterior and interior being named the testes, from a fancied re- semblance to the arrangement of those parts. The 7iates are connected with the optic thalami on each side bv a thickish peduncle; the testes being continuous with the cerebellum by two peduncles, called the processus 6 cerebeUo ad testes. Between the processus e cerebello ad testes of each side is stretched a thin layer of medullary substance called the valve of Vieussens. This latter forms a portion ot the roof of the fourth ventricle. The nates and testes form part of the roof of the iter a tertio ad quartum ven- triculum. The Pineal gland is a small portion of grey matter ' about the size of a small pea. It is connected to the brain by two small delicate peduncles, which run from it to the optic thalami, and which maybe traced forwards to the anterior p,liars of the fornix. It rests upon the groove and upper part of the nates. It contains often I little s7 bulous matter, composed of phosphate of lime. It occa- sionally appears divided into two lobes. It has also been sometimes called the co«a™, and the earthy matter has been termed acervulus cerebri. It was supposed by Descartes to be the seat of the soul. Pfus'ta oy 7§