AMPUTATION. 707 is not to be too large, is made of the soft parts at the inner and upper part of the limb. This flap is next drawn towards the scrotum by an assistant, and the articulation brought into view. The thigh is now abducted, the inner part of the capsular ligament divided, and the joint opened. The ligamentum teres is then cut, and the bone dis- located. The knife is next brought to the outside of the great trochanter, and an external flap formed by the soft parts, calculated to meet that made at the inside of the limb. In proceeding through the operation, Larrey secured the several branches of arteries as soon as they were divided. The two flaps were brought together and kept in this position with straps of adhesive plaster and a woollen spica bandage. Sir A. Cooper commenced his operation by making an incision first below Poupart's ligament, a little on the outside of the femoral artery. The wound is then carried obliquely downwards and out- wards to the back of the thigh, about one third of the way down it. from which point the knife is carried in the opposite direction, obliquely upwards and inwards, to meet the first incision, so as to make an elliptical curve. The femoral artery being divided is immediately tied. The muscles are next cut through, the arteries secured, and the bone taken out of its socket. Many more modern surgeons prefer making an anterior and posterior flap, in the following manner. The femoral artery having been com- manded by an assistant, the knife is to be introduced about midway between the trochanter major and anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and thus passed under the muscles and nerves on the anterior and inner part of the thigh so as to make the flap in front. Then the capsular ligament is to be opened, the round ligament cut across, and the head of the bone to be disarticulated: then by passing the knife down behind the bone, the posterior flap may be formed ; the arteries are to be immediately secured, and the flap kept together by means of stitches. ^ Amputation of the hip-joint has been performed with great rapidity by Mr. Mayo by making a flap on the inside and then on the outside of the thigh, but the femoral artery had been previously tied. Amputation of the shoulder-joint.—The most approved mode of amputating at the shoulder-joint is that in which a flap is made of the deltoid muscle. This is accomplished either by making a semicircular incision through the skin and muscles, commencing in front, at a short distance external to the coracoid process, and terminating behind at the posterior edge of the acromion, the incision ex- tending on the arm as low down as a hand's breadth from the edge of the acromion; or, as recommended by Dupuytren, by raising the deltoid muscle with the left hand, while with the right the catlin is passed beneath the muscle near its origin, and the flap made by cutting