FEMORAL HERNIA. 539 will present the appearance of one by direct descent. As in the former, the epigastric artery is drawn down to the external ring along with the hernial tumour, it still retains its original relation to the neck of the sac, namely, to its internal side; hence, in all doubtful cases, we should divide the stricture directly upwards. If we examine the lower part of the parietes of the abdomen on their inner surface, by raising the intestines from the cavity of the pelvis, leading the peritoneum in situ, we shall there see two depressions or fossae on each side, which seem to invite, as it were, to the protrusion of a hernial tumour. Between these, three projecting cords may be noticed; one of these is situated on the mesial line, and is formed by the urachus, which ascends from the superior fundus of the bladder to the umbihcus; the remaining two are situated one on each side. They are formed by the degenerated umbilical arteries, which ascend from the lateral surfaces of the bladder, convergino- to the umbilicus. °' These depressions are named the internal and external mgumal fossce or pouches. The internal inguinal fossa hes between the urachus and the degenerated umbilical artery, the first of which separates it from its fellow of the opposite side. It is triangular in shape, the base interiorly being formed by the crest of the pubes. It lies opposite to the external ring, and thus leads to the formation of direct inguinal hernia. The external inguinal fossa lies to the outer side of the umbilical artery; it lies superior aud external to the other and is somewhat larger; it leads to the iyiternal ring and consequently to the formation of an oblique inguinal hernia. i?EJIORAL HERNIA. This form of hernia is more frequent in the female than lu the male, m consequence of the greater breadth of the pelvis in the former. Although less frequently met with than mgumal hernia, it is perhaps more the subiect of operation, ^ it is more liable to strangulation from the smal ness of the aperture through which it escapes from the abdomen, and the resistance of the structures which form the circumference of the opening • Femoral or, as it is sometimes named, crural hernia, is