AMPUTATION. 703 drawn into folds. Between the skin and end of the bone a bursa exists. The muscles are retracted and wasted near the extremity of the stump. The vessels are obli- terated as high up as the nearest anastomosing branch of consequence. The nerves are expanded at their extremities, and present a gangliform appearance. The end of the bone is expanded, its edges rounded off, and its medullary canal closed. Double-flap amputaiixtn of the thigh.—The patient being placed in the proper position, and the circulation commanded, the surgeon grasps the soft parts on the anterior of the thigh, and draws them forwards, passes the catlin from within parts, through the thigh to the outer side of the femur, and then cutting downwards makes the posterior flap. By a similar method observed on the posterior of the bone, the pos- terior flap is formed. The flaps being now held back, and the retrac- tor applied, the bone is to be sawn through and the operation com- pleted, as in the circular amputation. Some surgeons in this operation make the flaps laterally, viz. on the outer, the other on the inner side of the femur. In the single-flap amputation, the flap is made in a similar manner to the preceding, excepting that we are obliged to form it from that portion of the limb which has escaped injury. Amputation of the leg.—The leg may be removed in its upper, middle, or lower third. Amputation in the upper third is in general to be preferi'ed, as the stump formed by it is found to be most useful, the portion of the limb left in the other amputations projecting much posteriorly, to the great annoyance and inconvenience of the patient. When, however, the patient requires his leg for ornament as well as for use, either of the other situations may be selected. Amputation in the upper third of the leg or below the knee: Apply the tourniquet on the inner side of the thigh, at the junction of its middle and inferior third, so as to compress the femoral artery before it perforates the tendon of the triceps. Make a circular incision through the integuments about six inches below the patella, reflex back the skin, cut through the muscles by a second circular incision, pass the catlin between the bones, so as to divide the soft parts in the interosseous space, and saw through the bones, taking care that the fibula is the first divided. Dress the stump as in the circular amputation of the thigh, the line of incision corresponding to the long axis of the limb. The removal of a portion of the anterior edge or spine of the tibia will be found useful by preventing the irritation of the skin, so likely to be induced by the projecting edge