14 SOUPS. A few plain soups can be made without stock at all, or even without water in which meat has been boiled. Pea, haricot, and lentil soup, for instance, can be concocted with plain water. All soups are improved by the addition of a crust of bread, nicely browned, and then stewed in the liquor with the meat. A piece of liver, too, will give a good brown colour to gravy or julienne. Economical Stock. Ingredients.—Theliquorin which a joint of meat has been boiled ; anything the larder may contain in the way of scraps of fresh meat, poultry, etc., shank bones, roast- beef bones, etc. ; a few bits of vegetables; pepper, mace, and savoury herbs. Method.—Place all the ingredi- ents together in a pan ; simmer gently for six hours, being careful to skim often and thoroughly ; and then strain off. Medium Stock. Ingredients.—4 lb. of shin of beef (or of knuckle of veal), or 2 lb. of each ; any odd bits of meat or poultry; ^ lb. of bacon or ham ; 2 oz. of butter ; 2 onions (stuck with cloves); 1 turnip ; 3 carrots ; 1 head of celery; 3 lumps of sugar; 2 oz. of salt; ^ a teaspoonful of white pepper ; 1 blade of mace ; 1 bunch of savoury herbs ; 4 quarts and \ pint of water. Method.—Butter the bottom of the stewpan ; put in the j- pint of water ; and then add all the ingredients, taking care previously to cut the meat and ham into pieces of about 2 or 3 inches. Cover the stewpan and place it on a quick fire, stirring the contents occasion- ally. In the course of half an hour, the bottom of the pan will become covered with a pale, jelly- like substance. Then add the 4 quarts of water, and simmer gently for five hours. Skim as frequently as necessary, and finally strain through a hair sieve. A richer stock may be made, including not only the shin of beef but the knuckle of veal also, a few chopped mushrooms, and a tomato. The above-described stock will, however, be found adequate for all ordinary occasions. Stock for White Soups. Ingredients.—1 lb. lean ham ; 5 lb. knuckle, or neck of veal ; 2 onions ; 2 carrots; 1 head of celery; 1 teaspoonful of peppercorns ; 1 blade of mace; salt to taste ; 4 quarts of water. Method.—Wash the veal well, cut it into three or four pieces and place it with the ham, thickly sliced, in the soup-pot. Add ^ pint of water and simmer gently till the gravy begins to flow from the meat, then pour in the remainder of the water, add the other ingre- dients, and simmer very gently for six or seven hours; skim thoroughly; strain through a fine sieve, and keep in a cool place till required. For very rich soup allow 1 pint of water to 1 lb. of meat. Browning for Stock. Ingredients.—2 oz. of powdered sugar and \ pint of water. Method.—Place the sugar in a stewpan, and stir it with a wooden spoon till it melts and becomes black. Then add the water, and allow the sugar to dissolve in it. Pour into a bottle; cork tightly, and use a few droos as needed.