VEGETABLES. 86 and salt; a little cream or butter, and boiling milk. Method.—The potatoes should first be thoroughly well boiled, then carefully remove all defects or hard bits; mash them very smooth with a wooden spoon, add- ing as much cream as will make them the right consistence, and season with pepper and salt; or, instead of cream, you may use butter and boiling milk, and they can be browned after they are dressed, in the dish they are to be served on, in the Dutch oven. To Roast Potatoes. Choose potatoes with a nice clear skin, and of an equal size, if pos- sible , put them into tepid water, and scrub them very clean. Place in a moderate oven (on the shelf) and bake from two hours to two hours and a half, turning fre- quently. Serve in a hot napkin. They are eaten with cold butter, pepper and salt. Savoury Potatoes. Ingredients.—Potatoes ; a little minced ham or tongue, a little butter, chopped parsley, pepper and salt; a sprinkle of sweet herbs; 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce or cream. Method.—Scrub perfectly clean as many potatoes as are required, and boil them in their skins till quite soft. Then cut them in halves and carefully extract the floury part of the potato, which must be pressed smooth with a spoon. Mix all *he ingredients well together and fill the half-skins with the mixture. Place them before the fire or in the oven to warm through, and brown the tops with a salamander or hot shovel. Arrange a napkin in neat folds on a vegetable dish, stand the potatoes up on it, and garnish with parsley. Steamed Potatoes. Choose potatoes of equal size, peel them, put them into the steamer, sprinkle some salt over them, and steam until tender; about half an hour should cook them. Keep the water in the saucepan underneath boiling all the time. When ready, take the lid off the steamer, shake the potatoes, cover them with a cloth, let them stand for a minute or two to dry, then turn on to a hot dish. This is the simplest and best way of cooking potatoes. Cold Potatoes Baked. Ingredients.—To every pound of potatoes allow 3 dessert-spoonfuls of flour, 2 dessert-spoonfuls of onions, 1 oz. of buttermilk, pep- per and salt to taste. Method.—Mash the potatoes till perfectly smooth, stir well into them the flour, onions, and season- ing, then add sufficient milk to moisten the whole; press into a mould, and bake for half an hour in a moderate oven. Turn out, and serve very hot. Cold Potatoes Fried. If whole, cut them in slices, sprinkle slightly with pepper and salt, and fry them a nice delicate brown in good beef-dripping or butter. Mashed potatoes are ex- ceedingly good fried just as they are, without fat of any kind ; they are more digestible done thus. Cold Boiled Potatoes Stewed. {American Recipe.) Ingredients.—1 cupful of milk ; a small piece of soda not larger than a pea ; 1 oz. of butter; a little flour ; pepper and salt to taste.