FISH. 44 of chopped parsley ; 2 or 3 chop- ped mushrooms ; a small piece of chopped shalot; pepper and salt ; 1 oe. of butter ; ^ teacupful of second stock. Method.—Sprinkle a few bread- crumbs, previously browned in the oven, on a small baking-tin or fire- proof dish, and over them sprinkle half of the parsley, mushrooms, shalot, and seasoning. Lay the sole, having first skinned it and re- moved the head, fins, and tail, on this mixture, and scatter the re- maining parsley, etc., over it; cover with brown bread-crumbs; place over all the butter in small pieces, and bake in a quick oven for ten or fifteen minutes. Serve, with the stock heated and poured round it. Broiled Sprats. Let the sprats be thoroughly fresh. Wipe them dry, and fasten them in rows by running a skewer through the eyes, and dredge some flour over them. Rub some suet on the gridiron, and broil the sprats for three or four minutes, taking care to serve them very hot. Sprats can also be fried in batter. To Pot Trout. Ingredients.—teaspoonful of black pepper and allspice mixed ; 1 teaspoonful of mace; £ teaspoon- ful of cloves; ^ teaspoonful of nutmeg ; a little salt; some fresh butter. Method.—The spices must all be ground, and should be kept well corked up in a small bottle. When used, add the salt. This quantity is sufficient for seven pounds of fish. Cut open the trout; clean well with a dry cloth, but do not wash them. Remove the heads, tails, fins, and backbone ; then rub the spices well into them ; put them into a baking-dish; cover well with fresh butter, and place the dish in a slow oven, to remain till the bones are dissolved, which will take about five hours. Drain off the butter, and put the fish into pots ; press it down firmly, and pour a thin layer of fresh butter over the top. The trout should be red-fleshed, and not exceeding three quarters of a pound in weight. Other fish, such as eels, sprats, etc., or shrimps and prawns, may be done in the same way. To Boil Whitings. (French Recipe.) Scrape, clean, and wipe the fish ; lay them on a fish-plate, and place them in boiling water ; throw in a little salt, two bay-leaves, and plenty of parsley (well washed and tied together). Let the fish sim- mer, and no more, for five or ten minutes, taking care that they are not overdone. Then serve with parsley-butter, in making which you can use the liquor in which the whitings have been boiled. To Fry Whitings. Take half a dozen whitings. Clean, skin, and dry the fish tho- roughly with a cloth ; fasten their tails to their mouths ; brush them evenly with beaten egg (two will be sufficient), and cover them with fine bread-crumbs, slightly mixed with flour. Fry to a clear brown in plenty of boiling lard ; drain and dry well; dish on a heated napkin, and serve with melted butter and the sauce-cruets, or with shrimp or anchovy sauce. A. little salt may be beaten up with the eggs.