112 PUDDINGS. and crumbs, and stir all well together. Make the batter into egg-shaped pieces with a spoon, and fry in very hot butter, or they may be baked in patty- pans. Oatmeal Pudding. Ingredients— 1 breakfast cup- ful of medium Scotch oatmeal; i lb. beef suet, chopped fine ; 1 large English onion, chopped; pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Mix the ingredients all together in a basin, and tie up firmly in a scalded cloth dredged with flour. Boil for two hours. The saucepan must be large enough to contain sufficient water to cook the pudding without having to add more. The pudding must be kept boiling. Parsnip Pudding. (German.) Ingredients.—3 parsnips (washed and scraped); a little butter; sugar and lemon to taste ; a small glass of brandy; 4 eggs; a few bread-crumbs. Method.—Boil the parsnips in milk till tender, mash them, then add the butter (warmed), sugar, lemon, eggs, well beaten, and the brandy, and mix all well together. Put it in a buttered dish, cover with bread-crumbs, lay a few lumps of butter on the top, and bake in a moderate oven for about three-quarters of an hour. The pudding can be put in a buttered mould and boiled, if preferred. Serve with pudding sauce. Plum Pudding (1). Ingredients.—2 lb. of raisins ; 1 lb. of currants; 1^- lb. of fine moist sugar; 2 lb. of bread- crumbs ; 4 oz. mixed candied peel; half a nutmeg ; vind of half a lemon ; ^ oz. of bitter almonds ; 1 dessertspoonful of egg powder ; J saltspoonful of salt ; 1 lb. of suet; 8 eggs; j pint of brandy; j lb. of flour ; a little milk. Method. — Stone and cut the raisins in halves, wash and dry the currants, chop the suet finely, grate the bread, and cut the can- died peel into thin slices. Mix all the dry ingredients well together. Beat and strain the eggs, and add them to the above. When well blended, add the milk, and lastly the brandy. Press the pudding into a well-buttered mould, tie down tightly with a floured cloth, and boil for nine hours. Serve with brandy-sauce. Plum Pudding (2). Ingredients.—1 lb. of raisins ; 1^ lb. currants ; 1 lb. of beef suet; 2 lemons; 1 lb. of Demerara sugar ; l lb. of bread-crumbs ; ^ oz. of nutmeg ; 1 oz. of mixed spice; | oz. of sweet almonds ; 4 oz. of mixed candied peel; 8 eggs ; 1 glass of brandy. Method.—Stone and cut the raisins ; clean the currants ; grate down the bread into fine crumbs ; mince the suet very finely ; slice and chop the candied peel ; grate the nutmegs, also the rind off the lemons; and blanch and grate the almonds. Mix all the dry ingredients thoroughly together, then add the eggs, the juice of the lemons, and the sherry ; stir well, press the pudding into a buttered mould, cover with a floured cloth, and boil for eight hours. Serve with brandy-sauce. Puddings in Haste. Ingredients.—Some shred suet; some bread-crumbs ; a handful of