VEGETABLES. 82 Cold Brocoli, Peas, or Beans. Put them into a basin, which place in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire ; put on the lid, and steam till they are quite warmed through. Boiled Cabbage. Ingredients. — Cabbage ; boiling water ; 1 spoonful of salt; a pinch of carbonate of soda. Method. — Wash the cabbage thoroughly, removing all decayed leaves. Cut it across the stalk about two inches deep, and let it lie in salt and water for half an hour. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water containing the salt and soda, put the cabbage into it, and boil uncovered for ten minutes. Then pour off all the water, and refill the pot with fresh boiling water from the kettle ; add a little salt, and boil for another ten minutes, or longer if the cabbage is large. Drain in a colander, press the water well out of it with the back of a plate, place on a hot dish, and serve. Cabbage, if cooked in this way, will agree with the most delicate stomach. Dressed Cabbage. Ingredients.—1 nice cabbage ; a little butter ; pepper and salt; 2 large spoonfuls of milk; 1 egg, well beaten; some fine bread- crumbs. Method.—Boil the cabbage ac- cording to the directions in the preceding recipe. When quite tender drain all the water tho- roughly from it, let it cool a little, then chop it up finely ; add the butter, seasoning, milk and egg, and mix all well together with a fork. Pat the whole into a pudding-dish, cover lightly with bread-crumbs, and bake till brown in a moderate oven. This is excel- lent, and very digestible. Cold Carrots. Cut them in thin slices and put them into a basin with a little gravy or melted butter; cover closely, and place in the oven for a quarter of an hour. To Boil Cauliflowers. Trim off the outside leaves and let the cauliflowers lie in cold salted water for an hour ; this will draw out any insects that may be amongst them. Cut them into branches, throw them into boiling salted water, and let them boil from twenty to thirty minutes, until the stalks are tender. Lift them care- fully out of the saucepan, drain well in a colander, arrange neatly on a hot dish, and serve plain, or with some good melted butter. If the cauliflowers are boiled whole, place them flower downwards in the saucepan. Cauliflower au Gratin. Ingredients.—1 cauliflower ; 1 oz. butter ; 1 oz. flour ; 1 gill of milk ; a little salt and pepper ; 1 table- spoonful of bread-crumbs; a few drops of lemon-juice. Method.—Boil a cauliflower nicely (from fifteen to twenty minutes), and place it, when done, in a deep dish. Melt in a saucepan the butter, add immediately the flour, mix well together, pour in by degrees the milk, and stir until boiling ; when it boils, take it off the fire (it should be thick), and add lemon-juice, salt, and pepper. Pour this mixture over the cauliflower in spoonfuls, sprinkle over it the bread-crumbs, place in the oven, and bake a nicq brown.