MEATS. 51 rump-steak, about f inch thick ; pepper ; oil; salt; a little minced parsley ; butter. Method.—Trim the steak neatly, beat it slightly, sprinkle it with pepper, dip it in oil, and broil it over a clear fire ; keep turning it constantly until it is done, which should be in about 15 minutes. Sprinkle with salt; mix the minced parsley with a little butter, and place it either over or under the steak. Garnish the dish with fried potatoes, and serve. Eeef Stew. Ingredients.—2 lb. of lean beef— the ‘inferior’ bits will do, brisket or round; ± onion, chopped; % tea- spoonful of allspice; 1 tablespoon- ful of sweet herbs minced, thyme, parsley, marjoram; pepper and salt; 1 tablespoonful browned flour; 2 cupfuls of cold water. Method.—Cut the meat into inch- square dice. Put them into a sauce- pan with the water; fit on a close top, and set where it will heat gra- dually, but not boil under an hour. Move it then to a spot where it will just bubble, and stew an hour and a half longer, all the while closely covered. Add onion, spice, herbs, and seasoning ; and stew, covered, half an hour longer. The meat should be so tender as to fall to pieces when a fork pierces it. Stir in the browned flour, and boil one minute. Send to table in a deep dish. It should be deliciously savoury, if this recipe be exactly obeyed. Slow boiling in a close vessel, and piquante seasoning, are the essentials to success. Stewed Brisket of Beef. Ingredients.—6 or 7 lb. of a brisket of beef ; vinegar ; salt ; 5 or 6 carrots ; 5 turnips ; 5 small onions; 1 head of celery; 1 blada of mace (pounded) ; 2 whole all- spice pounded) ; butter ; flour ; a little ketchup ; pepper and salt ; water. Method.—Rub the meat over with vinegar and salt, and let it re- main for half an hour before cooking it; then put it into a saucepan (not too large) with enough water to cover it. Simmer very gently for one hour, skimming frequently ; and then add the vegetables, cut small. Continue stewing slowly for about two hours longer until the meat is perfectly tender. Re- move the bones, dish the meat, and lay the vegetables round it. Thick- en the required quantity of gravy with butter and flour; add the spices, ketchup, and seasoning ; give one boil; pour some over the meat, and send the remainder to table in a tureen. Roast Bullock’s Heart. Ingredients.—3 oz. of chopped suet ; 3 oz. of bread-crumbs ; 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley ; 1 dessert-spoonful of mixed dried herbs; 1 gill of milk ; some pep- per and salt ; 1 bullock’s heart ; 1 pint of cold water ; 1 onion ; 1 oz. of butter ; 1 oz. of flour, and 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ket- chup. Method.—First of all, make the stuffing for this dish by mixing together the suet, bread-crumbs, parsley, and herbs, adding to them the milk, and seasoning the whole with pepper and salt. Then take the heart and wash it in several waters, cutting off the valves which close the arteries (the ‘deaf ears’). Cut away the partitions between the various cells of the heart, and insert the stuffing in the large cell 4—2