B>astn?. If possible, always make you7 pastrjr in a cool place. The cooler, too, you can keep your hands during the process the better. Not only should the hands be free from heat, but they should deal with the paste as lightly as possible, taking care not td roll it too heavily or too much. Yery much, of course, depends upon the oven and your know- ledge of it. For pastry, it should be very hot, and it is all the better when the heat comes from the bottom. Paste should not be allowed to brown too much or too quickly; when there are signs of its doing so, it should be removed to a less heated part of the oven. The making of paste does not require exceptional skill, but to be successful in it much practice is necessary. Puff Paste (1). An excellent authority supplies the following directions : ‘Weigh your butter and flour in equal proportions, cut the butter into thin slices, take a little flour and roll it with a slice of the butter into flakes; proceed thus until all the butter and flour are rolled together ; gather the flakes into a heap, and sprinkle them with water—about a gill and a half is required for a pound of paste. Make into a smooth paste with the hand, and then roll it out to the thickness of half an inch. If a pound of paste, divide it into four parts, flour the board, and roll out each part as thin as a wafer, fold over four or five times, and use as required. Bake as soon as possible. It is requisite to have the butter very firm, and free from water, and those who wish to have very superior pastry ■Will use Vienna flour, which is, however, expensive, and not to be had genuine in country towns. If you use ordinary flour, take care that it is dry, and sift it through a fine sieve. Excellent puff pastry may be made by using three-quar- ters of a pound of butter to a pound of flour ; but for the finest kind equal quantities of these are requisite. Good firm lard may be substituted for the butter, and three-quarters of a pound of it to one pound of flour will make a rich paste. This method, if fol- lowed, even for household pastry made with dripping, will be found to answer better than any other.’ Puff Paste (2). (Soyer’s Recipe.) Ingredients,.—To every pound of flour allow the yolk of 1 egg, the juice of 1 lemon, J saltspoon- ful of salt, 1 lb. of fresh butter, cold water. Method.—Put the flour on to- rr