133 CAKES; SCONES, ETC. Method.—Beat the butter to a cream, and gradually add the sugar, and yolks of eggs (one at a time) ; then put in the flour, noyeau, and orange-flower water. Beat the whites of the eggs to a froth, and add to the mixture. Thoroughly beat the whole with the hand, and then put in the fruit. Butter a tin, line it with three thicknesses of buttered paper, pour in the cake, and bake for five hours in a mode- rate oven. Almond Iceing for above. Ingredients. — 1 lb. Jordan al- monds ; 3 lb. white powdered sugar ; 1 lemon ; white of one egg. Method. — Blanch the almonds, soak them for twelve hours in cold water, chop them small, pound them in a mortar, and then mix gradually with the white of the egg, lemon-juice, and sugar. Spread it over the cake, and let it stand three days. Then put on the sugar iceing, as below. Sugar Iceing. Ingredients.—4 eggs ; 2 lemons ; 3 lb. sifted sugar. Method.—Add together whites of eggs, lemon-juice, and sugar. Work the whole with a wooden spoon, and spread over the cake. Let it dry in a warm place, but do not put it in the oven. Yorkshire Tea Cakes. Ingredients.—2 lb. of flour ; 6 oz. of butter ; 1 oz. of German yeast; 2 eggs ; a pinch of salt; | pint of lukewarm water ; some lukewarm milk. Method.—Put the flour, with a pinch of salt, into a basin, then with a spoon hollow out the middle of the flour, and pour into it the yeast dissolved in the lukewarm water ; stir into the yeast as much of the flour round about it as will make a thin batter free from lumps, cover with a clean cloth, and set it in a warm place to rise. When sufficiently risen, add the eggs, well beaten, with enough lukewarm milk to make the whole into a smooth paste, which must be well kneaded. Cover, and let it rise again for a while. Then divide the dough into ten pieces, roll each piece to the size of a saucer, place them on floured tins, allow them to rise once more for a few minutes before baking them, prick with a fork, and bake for about twenty minutes in a quick oven. When done, the cakes should be opened and buttered, and served very hot. When stale, they are very nice split and toasted. Buns. Ingredients.—£lb. of butter ; 1 lb. of flour ; 2 eggs ; ^ pint new milk ; i lb. of sugar ; 1 tablespoonful of yeast. Method.—Mix the butter with the flour ; beat up the eggs in the milk, and add the sugar and yeast; stir this into the flour, and work all well together; drop the mixture out of a large spoon on io tin plates, and when it has risen, bske. This quantity should be sufficient to make eight buns. Cookies. (American Recipe.) Ingredients.—§ cupful of butter ; 1 cupful of sugar ; 1 egg ; £ cupful of sour milk or butter-milk ; § tea- spoonful of soda, sifted three times through 2 cupfuls of flour : £ tea- spoonful of nutmeg. Method. — Rub the butter and sugar to a cream, using powdered sugar, if possible. Beat up the cream well with the egg ; add milk