HO EGGS, CHEESE, ETC. Cheese Sandwiches. Ingredients. — ^ lb. of grated cheese ; the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs ; 1 table-spoonful, of butter ; salt, pepper, and mustard ; buttered bread or biscuits. Method. — Put the yolks and butter into a basin, and beat with a spoon till smooth ; add the cheese and seasoning; mix all together, and spread between thin slices of buttered bread, or biscuits. Cheese Straws. Ingredients.—2 oz. of butter ; 2 oz. of flour ; 2 oz. of grated cheese ; a little salt and cayenne. Method. — Mix the ingredients into a paste ; roll out thin, and cut into fingers about a quarter of an inch wide and two inches long. Lay them on greased paper, and bake for a few minutes in a hot oven. Serve cold. Two ounces of bread-crumbs and the yolk of an egg may be added, if liked. Cheese Toasts. Ingredients.—3 oz. of Gloucester cheese ; the yolks of 2 eggs ; 4 oz. of grated bread ; 3 oz. of butter ; 1 dessert-spoonful of mustard ; a little salt and ca3^enne ; some cold toast. Method.—Grate the cheese, and mix with it the yolks of the two eggs, the grated bread, and butter ; beat the whole well in a mortar, with the mustard, salt, and cayenne. Toast some bread thin and crisp, cut it into neat pieces, lay the paste as above thick upon them, put them into a Dutch-oven, covered with a dish, till hot through ; then remove the cover, let the cheese brown a little, and serve as hot as possible. Clarified Butter; for frying, etc. Take the quantity desired of good butter ; cut it into pieces and lay it in a jar ; then put the jar into boiling water, and let it stand until the butter is melted. Stir once or twice, and allow it to settle; then, when partly cool, pour it into pots, keeping back the settlement. Cover closely. To Keep Butter Cool. A very good way to keep butter cool in summer is to dissolve some saltpetre in cold water and let the butter-crock stand in it, so that the water may come well up the sides. Cover the crock with a piece of wetted linen, taking care that the ends fall into the saltpetre water, by which the linen will be kept constantly damp. Keep in as cool a place as possible. Curried Eggs. Ingredients.—Some onions (sliced); butter ; a little flour ; some stock ; 1 table-spoonful of curry-powder ; 1 dessert-spoonful of arrowroot; a little milk or cream ; and several eggs (hard-boiled). Method.—Fry the onions in the butter, till brown. Sprinkle with flour, and dilute with the stock. Next, put in a basin the curry- powder and arrowroot, and gradu- ally stir in the milk or cream till it is as thick as butter. Work this up with the fried onions, regulating with stock the quantity and con- sistency of the whole. When all is nicely blended, warm up in it the eggs, which may be whole, halved, quartered, or sliced. They will look better if they are in all these forms. Take out the eggs, pile up on a dish, and pour the curry ragout over them. A supply of boiled rice may, with advantage, accompany this dish.