142 EGGS. CHEESE, ETC. Arrange the whites round, garnish with sippets of bread dipped in egg, place the dish in the oven, and serve as soon as it is browned. Omelette. Ingredients.—2 eggs (leaving out 1 white) ; 1 tablespoonful of cream ; a little minced parsley and shalot ; a very little nutmeg. Method.—Put the eggs into a basin, and add the cream, parsley, shalot, and nutmeg. Whisk all well together, and fry in as little butter as possible. Serve on a very hot dish. This is very good. Omelette aux Fines Ilerbes. Ingredients.—6 fresh eggs ; 1 tea- spoonful of salt ; \ teaspoonful of pepper ; 2 teaspoonfuls of minced parsley ; £ teaspoonful of minced onion ; 2 oz. of butter. Method.—Break the eggs into a basin ; add the salt, pepper, pars- ley, and onion, and beat them well together. Put into a clean dry frying-pan the 2 oz. of butter, place it on the fire, and, when the butter is hot, pour in the eggs. Keep mixing quickly with a spoon till it is lightly set, then tilt the pan sideways so as to let the omelette slip to the edge, which will make it of an oval shape. Let it set a minute, then turn it over on to a hot dish, and serve. Eggs sur le Plat. Ingredients. — Eggs ; butter ; pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Rub a little butter on the centre of as many plates as you have eggs; break the eggs gently on to these, dust lightly with pepper and salt, and place in the oven, or on the stove, until set. To Poach an Egg. Break the egg gently into a jam- pot, and place it in a saucepan with enough boiling water to reach half- way up the jar ; sprinkle lightly with salt, and cook until the white is quite set. Have ready some hot buttered toast, and slip the egg very carefully on to it, so as not to break the yolk. Another way is to drop the egg gently from a cup into a pan containing half-a- pint of boiling water, a little vine- gar, and a pinch of salt. In about two and a half or three minutes, when the white is set, lift it out carefully with an egg-slice. To Preserve Eggs. Ingredients.—1 lb. of quicklime to 3 gallons of water ; 1 handful of salt. Method.—Put the eggs in a large jar or vessel, and pour the lime- water (when it has stood awhile) over them. Throw in the salt, cover the jar closely, and keep in a cool place. Eggs will keep a con- siderable time if they are brushed over with gum, or if they have butter or sweet oil rubbed over them ; they must then be carefully packed in bran, and must not be allowed to touch each other. Welsh Rare-bit. Ingredients.—2 oz. of cheese ; 1 tablespoonful of ale; 1 slice of bread about £ inch thick ; pepper, salt, and mustard to taste. Method.—Put the ale in a toaster before the fire, or in a dish in the oven, and add to it the cheese cut into thin slices ; when the latter is thoroughly melted, have ready the slice of bread nicely toasted and quite hot, and pour the melted