poultry anb (Same. Poultry, to be thoroughly acceptable, should be young and plump, without being too fat. Fowls and turkeys, at their best, have a clear skin, broad and well-developed breasts, smooth legs, and pliable toes. The same may be said of ducks and geese, which, when old, are red and hard, with the skin full of hairs and very coarse. For boiling, use white-legged fowls and chickens, which look very delicate when dressed ; the dark-legged ones are best for roasting. Pigeons should be cooked soon after being killed ; turkeys should be kept tolerably long before cooking ; whilst a goose, in winter, should hang some days before it is prepared for table. It is perhaps unnecessary to add that poultry should always be well done—not over-done, but done sufficiently. If a hare or a rabbit has been freshly killed, it will b& stiff, and, if it is young, the ears will tear easily, and the ctews be smooth and sharp. In cold weather, a hare will remain good for ten or fourteen days. In the case of pheasants, partridges, etc., you can tell, by opening the bill, whether they are stale or not. Game should never be very fresh when cooked, but, on the other hand, it is possible to let it get too ‘ high > before cooking it. It should be the object of the cook to find the happy medium. Curried Chicken. Ingredients. — 1 chicken ; some sliced onions ; butter ; some good brown gravy, or stock ; 1 dessert- spoonful of curry-powder ; 1 tea- spoonful of flour ; 1 oz. of butter ; 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, or milk ; salt. Method.—Cut up the fowl into neat joints, and brown them in a frying-pan with the sliced onions and butter. When half cooked, ut them in a stewpan with the rown gravy or stock, and stew gently until tender. Mix smooth the spoonful of curry-powder and flour with the butter and cream, and add it to the stew. Season with salt. Arrange the meat on a dish, and pour the gravy over it. Rabbits, etc., are also excellent, cooked in this way. Serve with boiled rice (which see). Pile the rice round the dish, and place the curry in the centre. To curry pheasants and partridges, substitute | two or three finely chopped apples ! for the onions, add the chopped | heart of a cabbage, one pickled | capsicum minced fine, and the uice of one lemon. Chicken Scallop. Ingredients.—1 old, tough fowl ; 1 gallon of cold water; pepper ; salt; parsley (chopped) ; 2 table- spoonfuls of butter ; 1 tablespoon- ful of flour ; 1 egg ; some bread- crumbs. 6-2