129 CAKES, SCONES\ ETC. (washed and picked over carefully, and drained dry before dredging); £ teaspoonful of mixed nutmeg and cinnamon. Method. — Beat up the butter with the sugar to a cream; then beat in the yolks, the milk, the spice, the flour, and the whipped whites alternately; finally, add the berries. Mix them in thoroughly, but cautiously. They should not be mashed or broken. Bake longer than plain cake, covering with clean paper should it rise too fast. Test with a straw, to see if it is done. Wrap in a clean thick cloth, and do not cut it until perfectly cold. It is better not to use it the day it is baked. Icing for Cakes. Ingredients.—1| lb. icing sugar; whites of 2 eggs. Method.—Cut the cake quite even on the top ; and put it on a basin turned upside down. In another basin put the sugar and whites of eggs, and beat with a spoon till a stiff froth. Dip a knife in cold water, spread a spoonful of the froth thinly over the cake ; put on another layer, and stand aside to get stiff. Make some ‘ pokes ’ of rather stiff paper, pour in a spoonful of icing, and with the thumb force it through the bottom of the poke, tracing patterns on the cake. Oatmeal Cakes. Ingredients. — Medium - sized Scotch oatmeal ; cold water; salt. Method.—Only enough dough for one cake should be made at a time. Knead it as quickly as possible, and roll out the cake very thin, to about an eighth of an inch ; trim round the edge, cut into four sec- tions, and bake on the girdle or hot plate over the fire. When it is sufficiently stiff to bear its own weight, lift it on to a toaster be- fore the fire in order to slightly brown the upper side. Made thus, the cakes will be sweet, crisp, and wholesome. Made with warm water, fat, or carbonate of soda, they will be tough and indigest- ible. As little water as possible should be used in making the dough. Keep the cakes in a dry place. Should they lose their crisp- ness, place them in the oven for a few minutes before they are wanted for table. They should be eaten cold with salt butter. One, Two, Three, Four Cake. Ingredients.—1 cup of butter ; 2 cups of sugar ; 3 cups of flour; 4 eggs ; 2 teaspoonfuls of baking- powder. Method. —Beat the butter to a cream; whisk the eggs well; and add to the other ingredients. Bake in a moderately quick oven. (See ‘ Cake Pudding.’) Parliament Cakes. Ingredients.—2 lb. of flour; 1 lb. of butter; 1 lb. Demerara sugar ; i lb. ground ginger; 1 lb. golden syrup. Method.—Put the flour in a basin, and mix with it the sugar and ginger. Put the golden syrup to warm, melt the butter, add it to the syrup when boiling, and stir it into the dry ingredients. Roll out the paste rather more than quarter of an inch thick, divide into cakes, or mark the whole paste into squares, to be divided when baked. Plain Cake. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour; 1 tea- cupful of sugar; 3 oz. of butter; 1 teacupful of warm milk; ^ teacup- ful of golden syrup; 1 teaspoonful 9