159 MISCELLANEOUS. cupful of good thick cream ; 1 tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar. Method.—Put the mustard, salt, and pepper into a basin, and work very gradually into them the cream ; add the vinegar by degrees, and keep stirring the whole con- tinually till you pour it over the salad. Skansk Grot. (Swedish Recipe.) Ingredients.—\ lb. of rice ; the rind of 1 lemon ; a piece of cinna- mon ; 1 lb. of apples; 2 dozen raisins ; sugar to taste ; 1 glass of white wine. Method.—Boil the rice in suffi- cient water with the lemon-rind and cinnamon. When half cooked, add to it the apples, pared, cored, and cut up, the raisins (stoned), sugar, and white wine. Boil until the rice is quite tender. Before serving, take out the lemon-peel and cinnamon. Serve either hot or cold, with cream or milk. A Supper Dish. Ingredients.—As many potatoes as required ; 2 eggs ; a little milk, fried bacon and eggs. Method.— Boil the potatoes ac- cording to directions (which see), beat them very smooth, and mix with them one of the eggs and a little milk ; place them on a flat dish (the border of which glaze with the yolk of the other egg), and brown'before the fire ; arrange fried bacon and eggs neatly round the border, and serve. Filleted fish, cut in pieces and fried, can be sub- stituted for the bacon and eggs if preferred. Clarified Sugar. Ingredients.—Preserving sugar ; eggs ; water. Method.—Take \ pint of water and half the white of an egg beaten up in it for every pound of sugar. Stir till the sugar is melted, bring it to boiling-point, and pour in another \ pint of water for each pound of sugar. Bring it again to the boil, take the pan from the fire ; remove the scum and put it to drain on a hair- sieve. From the scum will escape some syrup, which can be returned to the pan. Boil the whole again, and skim as before. How to Make Tea. The kettle should, in the first place, be perfectly clean, both inside and out ; and, in the second place, the fire should be bright and clear. The water should be soft (if pos- sible) and filtered. About twenty minutes before it is required, fill the kettle with fresh water, and, when it is just on the point of boiling, scald the inside of the tea- pot (which is best when made of earthenware, china, or silver). Put in the tea—a spoonful of which for each person will be sufficient if it is really good and unadulterated —pour the boiling water over it, let the tea stand under a tea-cosy for two or three minutes, and then pour it out. If more tea is re- quired, let it be made in another teapot. It is a good plan, when sufficient tea is made, to admit of each person receiving two cupfuls, to pour it, when it is of the right strength, through a strainer, into another hot teapot. The tea used should always be good. ‘ Cheap ’ tea is dear in the end, for it con- tains more tannin than better sorts, and more of it is required to make an acceptable cup. When taken in moderation tea is very