126 CAKESi SCONES, ETC. a sustained heat is necessary ; for small sugar cakes, a slow oven is desirable. Gingerbread should be gently baked. To test whether a cake is done, put a knife into it, and if the blade comes out clean, the cake is ready ; if the blade comes out otherwise, the baking must be continued. In baking bread, a brick oven, heated by wood, is, on economical grounds, preferable to an iron oven heated by coal. The flour should, if possible, be obtained direct from a miller, and should be of the best, though ‘ best seconds ’ is often used with good results. It should be of hard, rather than soft, wheat, and should be kept in a place which is at once warm and dry. In any case, it should be warmed and dried before being used. ‘ Great cleanliness is required for making bread—a clean trough or brown earthenware pan ; very clean hands and arms.’ Do not put in too little yeast and too little water ; and do not allow the dough to get cold before it is finished. It cannot be too thoroughly kneaded. Bread baked in tins is lighter than loaves made in the ordinary way. Bread Cake. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of the best flour ; \ lb. of moist sugar ; 1 oz. of caraway-seeds ; 2 eggs ; \ lb. of butter; 1 pint of milk ; 2 table- spoonfuls of yeast. Method.—Let it rise like ordinary bread, and bake about an hour in a moderate oven. Currants may be substituted for the caraway-seeds, if desired. Cake. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour ; 6 oz. of butter ; 6 oz. of sugar ; ^ lb. of raisins ; 3 teaspoonfuls of baking- powder ; \ lb. of citron ; 3 eggs ; £ pint of milk ; and a pinch of salt. Method.—Work the flour and butter well together, add the baking- powder, salt, sugar, raisins (stoned), and the citron, cut very fine. Mix well, and moisten with the eggs, well beaten, and the milk. Bake in a tin, in a moderate oven, for an hour and a half or two hours. Cornflour Cakes. Ingredients.—3 oz. of butter; \ lb. of powdered sugar ; 3 eggs ; 1 table- spoonful of flour; £ lb. of cornflour; £ teaspoonful of carbonate of soda dissolved in milk • ^ teaspoonful of tartaric acid. Method.—Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar and eggs, and beat all wTell together ; then mix in the flour, the dissolved soda, and tartaric acid. Bake in a well- greased tin for about three-quarters of an hour. Scotch Currant Bun. Ingredients.—1^ breakfast-cup- ful of flour ; \ lb. of butter (or dripping); \ teaspoonful of baking- powder ; 1 lb. of flour ; £ lb. of sugar ; 2 lb. large blue raisins ; 2 lb. currants ; J lb. of orange- peel ; j lb. of almonds ; \ oz. of ginger ; \ oz. of cinnamon ; oz' of Jamaica pepper ; \ teaspoonful of black pepper ; 1 small teaspoon- ful of carbonate of soda; some milk. Method.—Take the three first in- gredients, and mix them with water till they make a firm paste. Roll this out thin, and, having greased the inside of a cake-pan, line it with the rolled-out paste, keeping back a piece (of the size of the pan) for the top of the bun. Then put