31 SAUCES; milk. Stir the sauce over the fire till it thickens, then pour in the lemon-juice and wine. The latter can be omitted. This sauce is nice with plum, bread, or rice-pudding. Sweet Sauce (2). Ingredients. — 1 teaspoonful of cornflour ; 1 dessertspoonful of castor sugar ; \ pint of milk. Method.—Boil the milk with the sugar ; then add to it the cornflour, previously mixed smooth in a little cold milk. Stir one way over a clear fire until it boils ; boil 2 minutes, then serve. Tartare Sauce. Ingredients.—1 onion ; 2 shalots; a little parsley and tarragon ; a few capers ; the yolks of 2 eggs, boiled hard ; 1 spoonful of tarra- gon vinegar ; 1 spoonful of plain vinegar : 1 spoonful of olive-oil; 1 teaspoonful of ready-made mus- tard ; pepper and salt. Method.—Chop the onion, sha- lots, parsley, tarragon, and capers very fine. Rub down the yolks of the eggs, and dissolve them in a little drop of water. Mix all these thoroughly together, and add the spoonful of tarragon and plain vinegar ; beat well with a wooden spoon ; adding, very gradually, the spoonful of olive-oil and the mustard. Season to taste. This is a very good receipt, and is excel- lent with broiled fowl, or grouse, salmon, and cold meat of all kinds. Tomato Sauce. Ingredients. — Tomatoes ; vine- gar ; garlic ; salt ; Jamaica pepper ; whole black pepper ; a few cayenne pods ; curry powder. Method.—Put the tomatoes in a brass pan, and stew till tender ; rub them through a sieve, and to every pound of juice add a pint of vinegar, £ oz. of garlic, j oz. of salt, £ oz. of Jamaica pepper, \ oz. of whole black pepper, and a few cayenne pods. Boil one hour, strain, and add curry powder to taste. Bottle when cold. This is a very good relish for fish, cold meat, etc., and with the addition of melted butter is used with mutton chops and cutlets. An Excellent Vinegar for Salads. Ingredients. — Tarragon, savory, chives, and shalots, each 3 oz. ; a handful of the tops of mint and balm; 1 gallon of the best vinegar. Method.—Dry and pound all the ingredients, put them into a wide- mouthed bottle with the vinegar, cork it close, set it in the sun, and in a fortnight strain it off, and squeeze the herbs. Let it stand to settle, then strain through a filter- ing-bag, and bottle it. Plain White Sauce. Ingredients. — 1 teaspoonful of flour ; 1| oz. butter ; ^ pint milk ; salt; a very little lemon-juice. Method.—Mix the flour and but- ter on a plate to a smooth paste, put it into a saucepan with the milk, and keep shaking or stirring it one way over a clear fire until it boils ; then add the lemon-juice and salt. Wine Sauce. Ingredients.—Some thin melted butter; brown sugar ; a little grated lemon-peel or a little nut- meg ; 1 or 2 glasses of sherry or madeira. Method.—Make some thin melted butter, sweeten it with the brown sugar, add the grated lemon-peel or nutmeg, and one or two glasses of sherry or madeira ; make it quite hot, but do not let it boil, and serve immediately.