VEGETABLES. 83 How to Keep Celery Fresh. Celery can be kept fresh for a week or more if it is wrapped up, first in brown paper, and then in a towel, and laid in a cool, dark place. Before it is wanted for table, let it lie in cold water for an hour. This will make it crisp. Celery Salt. Save the root of the celery plant, dry and grate it, and mix with it one-third as much salt; keep in a bottle well corked, and it will be found delicious for soups, gravies, hashes, etc. Stewed Celery. Ingredients.—5 heads of celery; 1 oz. of flour; 1 oz. of butter; a little milk. Method.—Wash and trim the celery and stew it in the milk for about one hour and a half. When done, lift it out, put it on a hot vegetable-dish, and pour over the milk thickened with the flour and butter, and seasoned to taste. Dressed Cucumber. Ingredients. — Young cucumber (freshly gathered, if possible) ; salt; white pepper ; 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of pure salad oil; 3 table- spoonfuls of vinegar. Method.—Pare the cucumber, cut it into very thin slices, commencing at the thick end, put them into a dish, sprinkle with salt, and when they have stood a few minutes, drain off the water; strew more salt over, dust with white pepper, and add the oil, turn the cucumber well in this, then pour on the vinegar. Put the whole into a clean dish, and serve. Cucumber dressed in this way may be eaten by most people without fear. Dressed with vinegar alone it is very indigestible. Lentil Porridge. Ingredients.—3 tablespoonfuls of lentil flour ; 3 breakfast-cupfuls of water, or milk and water, and salt to taste. Method.—Mix the milk and water very gradually with the flour, and boil for ten or fifteen minutes. Milk or syrup may be taken with it. Vegetable Marrows. These can be cooked in several ways. (1) They can be boiled in the skin, and then pared, halved, and served upon toast. (2) They can be stewed tender in butter, and served in veal gravy, well-thick- ened, and flavoured with a little lemon-juice. (3) They can be boiled, quartered, freed from seed, left till cold, and then dipped into egg and bread-crumbs, and fried. (4) They can be boiled, cut into dice, and re-heated in a little white sauce. (5) They can be prepared according to the directions for mashed turnips, and in this form are excellent. A French mode is to boil the marrows tender in water, halve them lengthwise, chon off a piece at the end so as to make them stand up in the dish, and, having hollowed out the insides, fill them with white mince-meat, pouring white sauce round them. Marrows are best when about half a dozen inches long. The mode- rate sized should be boiled for twenty to thirty minutes; the large for forty-five to sixty minutes. Stewed Mushrooms. Ingredients. — A little flour, butter, pepper and salt, mush- rooms. G—2