TO USE UP COLD MEAT, ETC. 77 the top with a spoon, and striped with the prongs of a fork. Bake till brown in a moderate oven. Three-quarters of an hour should be sufficient to bake it. Curried Meat. Ingredients.—Some slices of cold meat; a little butter; 1 or 2 onions; 1 dessert-spoonful of flour ; 1 des- sert-spoonful of curry-powder; salt; \ pint of gravy ; boiled rice. Method — Melt the butter in a stewpan, and fry in it the meat and onions, sliced; when nicely browned, take out the meat and add the curry-powder and flour mixed smooth in the gravy : stir well over the fire for about ten minutes, then replace the meat, and season with salt. When the meat is thoroughly warmed through (the gravy must not be allowed to boil after the meat is put in) place it on a dish with a border of rice round it, and pour the gravy over it. A small quantity of cocoanut-milk or fried apple will be found an im- provement. Fried Meat Cakes. Ingredients.—Remains of cold roast beef, mutton, veal, etc. ; pepper and salt; a little chopped parsley; cold mashed potatoes ; 1 egg- Method.—Chop the meat finely; add pepper, salt, and parsley, mix well with the cold potatoes, and bind all together with the egg. Form into little round or oval cakes, and fry a delicate brown in good beef-dripping or butter; drain on kitchen paper, and serve hot with good brown gravy in a tureen. Hashed Meat. Ingredients.—1 lb. cold meat; 2 Spanish onions; 1 tablespoonful of flour; 1 tablespoonful of ketchup ; 1 turnip ; 2 carrots ; 1 oz. butter or lard; seasoning; 1 pint of stock. Method. — Cut the turnip and carrots into small pieces, and boil till soft in a little water. Put the butter into a stewpan and let the sliced onions brown in it. Slice the meat, flour the pieces on both sides, and brown them in the butter with the onions. Add the stock and the ketchup, and stir together until the stock boils, when season- ing to taste should be added. Care- fully strain the water from the carrots and turnip,and serve on the same dish as the hashed meat. If preferred, they may be put in with the meat whiie the stock is boiling. Meat Jelly. Ingredients.—Some cooked chick- en or beef; 1 pint of good, clear stock ; 1 sixpenny packet of gela- tine ; 2 hard-boiled eggs; pepper and salt. Method.—Cut the meat and eggs into small pieces, season well, and arrange in a mould. Pour over this the stock in which the gelatine has been dissolved. Cook in a mode- rate oven for half an hour. When quite cold, turn out on a dish gar- nished with parsley. Minced Meat. Ingredients.—Some cooked meat (any kind) ; pepper and salt; a little gravy; mashed potatoes (or boiled rice) ; fried bread. Method.—Mince the meat (say a little cold roast beef and boiled ham) very finely; season with pepper and salt to taste ; add suffi - cient gravy to moisten it well, and stir the whole over the fire until very hot, but do not let it boil. Make a wall of the mashed pota- toes round a dish, and pour the