64 MEATS. the head, and send the remainder to table in a tureen. Serve with ham, bacon, or pickled pork. For a small family half a calf’s head would be sufficient. The liquor in which the head was boiled should be saved for soup. Calf’s Head Pie. (Scotch.) Ingredients. — 1 calf’s head ; small knuckle of veal; rind of 1 lemon ; 2 onions ; a fagot of parsley and winter savory ; a few white peppercorns; 2 blades of mace ; a few pieces of isinglass ; some thin slices of ham; a little forcemeat made from the knuckle; the yolks of 3 or 4 hard-boiled eggs ; white pepper ; salt; a little nutmeg; a little grated lemon- peel ; gravy ; putf - paste. (See ‘Pastry.’) Method.—Scald and soak the head, and simmer it for half an hour in a little water, with the knuckle of veal, the lemon-rind, onions, parsley, savory, pepper- corns, and mace. Take up the head, and, when cold, cut into bits of different shapes. Skin and cut the tongue into square pieces. Boil the broth, in which the head and knuckle were simmered, with a few bits of isinglass till it is re- duced to a strong jelly gravy. Place a layer of thin slices of lean ham at the bottom of a pie-dish, then some of the head and tongue, a little forcemeat made from the knuckle, and the hard yolks cut in two; season with pepper, salt, a very little nutmeg, and a little grated lemon-peel. Fill the dish thus with alternate layers, pour in as much as it will hold of the gravy jelly, cover it with puff- paste and bake for an hour. To be eaten cold. Calf’s Liver and Bacon. * Ingredients.—lb. of calf’s liver; \ lb. of bacon ; 1 teaspoonful of flour; \ pint of second stock ; a little ketchup ; 6 drops of caramel; pepper and salt. Method.—Wash the liver tho- roughly, cut it into thin slices, and dry them in a clean towel. Next, having sliced the bacon thinly and removed the rind, fry it nicely over a gentle fire for about five minutes; when done, place it neatly on a hot dish, and put it in the oven or on the stove, to keep it from cooling. Fry the slices of liver in the bacon gravy for ten minutes, then place them on the dish with the bacon. Now stir into the frying-pan the flour, and when it has become nicely browned, stir in the stock also. Keep stirring the whole till it boils, then add the caramel, ketchup, pepper, and salt, and pour over the liver and bacon. Stewed Calf’s Liver. Ingredients. — 2 lb. of calf’s liver ; £ lb. of fat bacon or pork ; 5 spring carrots ; 2 oz. of butter ; 1 tablespoonful of flour ; pepper and salt. Method.—Lard the liver with the bacon, and when it has been well browned in the butter (pre- viously made very hot in a stew- pan) take it out, dredge in the flour, brown it nicely in the butter, then pour in a little water, and season with pepper and salt to taste. Replace the liver in the stewpan, add the carrots cut into thin slices, and let the whole simmer gently for one hour and a half. Serve very hot. A little Worcestershire sauce improves thq dish.