Vegetables. Vegetables are a most valuable species of food, possessing qualities which are in themselves almost sufficient to sustain life. Even professed vegetarians are, however, careful to make use of butter, milk, cheese, and so on. All vegetables are purifiers of the blood, and, by assisting to dissolve other food, help to promote digestion. They are said, in the matter of digestibility, to be on a level with poultry. It is necessary, we may note, that they should be cooked as soon as possible after they are gathered ; in other words, they should be thoroughly fresh when cooked. ; When they have been cut some days, changes, less perceptible indeed, but not less real, than those which occur in animal food, take place, leading to derangement of digestion.’ Then, vegetables should always be boiled in plenty of water—all, that is, except peas—and by this means any unpleasantness of flavour is carried off. Where vegetables are known to be less digestible than others, a good plan is to parboil them, and having poured away the first water, to boil them again in a fresh supply. All greens (such as cabbages, etc.) are improved by being boiled with a little carbonate of soda ; soda should not, however, be used in the case of cauliflower and brocoli, which, by the way, require very careful boiling, or their appearance gets spoiled. The time for boiling vegetables depends, of course, upon their freshness and size. Potatoes, we may mention, should always be boiled in a saucepan specially devoted to them ; if the pan is used for other vegetables, they will become discoloured. Tomatoes are specially good for dyspepsia, and lentils are not only the most nourishing of all kinds of pulse, but are the most easily cooked and digested. Finally, serve vegetables directly they are done; they should not be allowed to remain in the water for a moment after they have once been boiled. Asparagus. Wash and trim the asparagus, scrape the stems very clean with a sharp knife, and throw them into cold water as they are done. When ready, tie into neat bunches, put them into boiling water with a little salt in it, and boil from twenty to twenty-five minutes, until the stalks are tender. Care must be taken not to boil it too long, or it will lose both its colour and flavour. Drain well, and ar- range neatly on a piece of toasted bread. If liked, melted butter may be served with it. A little vinegar, stirred into the sauce before serving.