CAKES, SCONES, ETC. 134 .md spice, and, finally, the sifted flour. Roll into a thin paste, cut into round cakes, and bake in a quick oven. Dropped Scones. Ingredients. — 2 teacupfuls of flour ; 1 teaspoonful of carbonate of soda ; 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar ; 1 teaspoonful of tartaric acid ; 2 teacupfuls of buttermilk. Method.—Put the flour in a basin and mix with it the soda (previously ground fine), the sugar, and tartaric acid. Next add, very gradually, the buttermilk, beating all well with the back of a spoon. Have ready the hot griddle, rub a piece of butter or suet over it, and drop spoonfuls of the mixture neatly on to it. When bubbles rise on the top of the scones, turn them*, and fry a delicate brown. Eliza Tea Scones. Ingredients. — 3 tumblerfuls of flour ; 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar ; 1 small teaspoonful of car- bonate of soda (dissolved in hot water) ; 1 tumblerful of milk ; a small lump of butter ; and a little salt. A few currants can be added, if liked. Method. — Mix all the dry in- gredients thoroughly, then add the milk. Roll out the paste, and cut into round scones with a tumbler. Place on a tin, and bake for a quarter of an hour in a moderate oven. Ginger Snaps. (American Recipe.) Ingredients.—2| cupfuls of flour; | cupful of lard ; £ cupful of butter ; 1 cupful of sugar; f cupful of treacle ; | cupful of water; 1 even tablespoonful of ginger, and half as much cinnamon: 1 even tea- spoonful of soda, sifted three times with the flour. Method.—Warm the sugar, butter, and lard, until you can whip them to a light-brown cream ; beat in the spices and water, and, last of all, add the flour. If the dough is not stiff enough to roll out, add flour as necessary. Roll into a thin paste, cut into small cakes, and bake quickly. The snaps keep long, and are excellent. Hot Cross Buns. Ingredients.—6 oz. butter; 2 lb. of fine flour; a pinch of salt; 2 eggs, well beaten ; 1 pint of warm milk ; 1 oz. of German yeast; 1 lb. of sugar ; ~ lb. of currants ; ~ a nut- meg, grated ; £ lb. of powdered mace. Method.—Rub the butter into the flour ; add the salt, eggs, warm milk and yeast, and knead the mixture well; cover with a cloth, and set it on the hearth to rise ; when it is quite light, and the sur- face has cracked, work into it the sugar, currants, nutmeg and mace. Again set the dough on the hearth to rise until light, then roll it out, cut into buns, make a cross on each, brush over with butter, and let them stand in a warmed, well- buttered tin before the fire for fifteen minutes. Sift a little sugar over each bun, and bake (without turning them) in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Sweet-milk Scones. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour; 1 egg ; 2 teaspoonfuls of baking- powder; \ teaspooful of carbonate of soda; \ teaspoonful of cream of tartar; a little milk. Method.—Mix the dry ingre- dients in a basin with the egg (previously well beaten), and