SAUCES. 26 it; cover it close, and let it soak for an hour. Put it into a sauce- pan with the mace, cayenne, salt, and butter rolled in flour ; beat it well with a fork over the fire till it comes to the boil, then serve. The addition of a little cream is an improvement. Brown Sauce. Ingredients.—2 oz. of butter ; 1 carrot; 1 turnip ; \ stick of celery ; f oz. of flour ; 3 gills of second stock ; 1 tablespoonful of mush- room ketchup ; salt; pepper ; 6 drops of caramel. Method.—Melt the butter in a frying-pan ; wash and pare the turnip and carrot, and slice them, with the celery, into thq, butter. Brown the vegetables well on both sides ; stir in the flour ; and then add by degrees the stock, stirring all the time. When the mixture boils, season with a little salt and epper, and flavour with the etchup. Boil again for two minutes, add the caramel, strain the sauce into a gravy-boat, and serve. Caper Sauce. Ingredients.—\ pint of melted butter ; 3 spoonfuls of capers, and a little of the vinegar ; salt. Method. — Chop half of the capers and keep the rest whole, stir them into the melted butter, with a little of the vinegar, and keep stirring the whole till it boils; add the salt, then serve. Pickled nasturtiums may be substituted for the capers ; they make a very good sauce. Celery Sauce. Ingredients.—4 heads of celery ; | pint of milk ; 2 teaspoonfuls of flour ; 2 oz. of butter ; salt, pepper, and pounded mace to taste. Method.—Put the milk, flour and butter into a lined saucepan, and stir them quickly one way till they boil. Add the celery previously boiled in salt and water until tender, and cut into pieces 2 inches long. Season to taste, and simmer the whole for two or three minutes, when it will be ready to serve. A Chutnee Sauce. Ingredients.—5 or 6 roasted ap- ples ; some turmeric and beetroot juice ; 1 tablespoonful of chili vinegar ; 1 clove of garlic ; 1 sha- lot; a little cayenne and salt. Method.—Pulp the apples, and colour them with turmeric and beetroot juice till they are the colour of a tomato, add the other ingredients, and simmer gently for some time. It ought to be the con- sistency of cream. When cool, put it into half-pint bottles, and cork tightly. Custard Sauce. Ingredients.—^ pint of milk; 1 egg ; 1^ oz. of powdered sugar ; 1 dessert-spoonful of brandy. Method.—Put the milk in a sauce- pan with the sugar ; when it comes to the boil let it stand a minute to cool, then pour it over the well- beaten egg. Put the mixture into a jug, which place in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir it till it thick- ens, being careful not to let it boil; add the brandy, and serve. The brandy can be omitted. Egg Sauce (1). Ingredients.—2 eggs (boiled for twenty minutes, then put into cold water to cool) ; 1 tablespoonful of flour ; 1 oz. of butter ; k pint of milk ; pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Mix the flour and but- ter together on a plate, put them