Ill PUDDINGS. the rice, which has been previ- ously turned on to a dish. Llandudno Pudding. Ingredients.—4 eggs (well beaten); 1 cupful of flour; £ cupful of sugar ; £ teaspoonful of baking soda; 1 dessert spoonful of marmalade ; | lb. of butter. Method. — Melt the butter slightly, add it to the other in- gredients and mix all well together. Put the mixture into a buttered basin, and steam for three hours. Turn out, and serve with sauce made of corn-flour and milk. Macaroni Pudding. Ingredients.—2% oz. of the best Italian macaroni; 1 quart of milk; sugar to taste ; 2 or 3 eggs ; a few drops of any flavouring preferred; a little grated nutmeg. Method.—Break the macaroni into small pieces, and simmer it in 1 pint of the milk for about three-quarters of an hour until perfectly tender. Put it into a pudding-dish, and pour over it the remainder of the milk, pre- viously mixed with the eggs, well beaten, the sugar and flavour- ing. Grate a little nutmeg over the top of the pudding, and bake for three-quarters of an hour in moderate oven. Half a wineglass- ful of brandy may be added, if liked. Marrow Pudding. Ingredients.—1 pint of boiling milk; 1 penny loaf ; 1 glass of brandy ; 3 eggs, well beaten ; 2 oz. of sugar ; £ lb. of currants ; £ lb. of ox marrow, sliced; a little nut- meg ; a little candied peel. Method.—Pour the pint of boil- ing milk on the crumb of the penny loaf ; add the other ingre- dients, mix well, and either boil or bake it. Put a little candied peel on the top. Maude’s Pudding. (.American.) Ingredients.—2 cupfuls of bread- crumbs, finely grated ; 2 cupfuls of chopped apples ; a handful of raisins, stoned and chopped ; 1 tablespoonful of butter ; f cupful of brown sugar; cinnamon and nutmeg to taste. Method. —Butter a pudding- dish ; strew the bottom thickly with crumbs. On this spread a layer of chopped apples, sprinkle with raisins, small pieces of butter, and spice, and cover with sugar. More crumbs follow, then apple, and so on, until the dish is full. The top layer should be crumbs, and well buttered. Cover tightly, and bake until the apple juice bubbles through the crust and up at the sides, when brown on the grating of the oven. Send to table in the dish, and eat with butter and sugar, or pudding- sauce. This pudding costs less than an apple pie ; consumes one quarter of the time in making; goes twice as far in feeding a family, is more digestible, and more ‘ toothsome.’ Hew College Puddings. Ingredients.—6 yolks and 3 whites of eggs; 1 spoonful of flour; 4 spoonfuls of bread-crumbs; a little salt and nutmeg; sugar to taste ; 4 oz. of shred suet ; 4 oz. of currants, picked and washed. Method.—Beat well the six yolks and three whites, and mix them with the flour and bread- crumbs ; add a little salt and nut- meg, sugar to taste, the shred suet,