FISH, 35 Balled Fish. Ingredients.— 1^ lb. of fish (if possible, 3 small ones) ; 1 dessert- spoonful of flour ; 1 teaspoonful of butter ; 1 egg ; 1 teacupful of milk ; pepper and salt. Method.—Scrape and wash the fish, cutting off the fins and taking out the eyes ; dry them, and place them in a pie-dish. Mix together the flour, butter (melted), egg (well beaten), and milk; add a little pepper and salt, and pour the whole over the fish. Place the dish in the oven and bake for half an hour, or toast before the fire for the same length of time. Fish Cakes. (See ‘ Fish Pudding.’) Dressed Fish. Ingredients.—1 lb. cooked fish ; 2 oz. of butter ; 1 oz. of flour ; ^ pint of milk ; a little grated nut- meg ; pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Put the butter in a saucepan and melt it slightly, add the flour, then stir in, very gradu- ally, the milk ; keep stirring the sauce till it boils, then add the grated nutmeg and seasoning to taste. Have ready the fish, freed from all skin and bone and cut into small pieces ; place it on a flat dish, pour the sauce over it, and brown quickly in a hot oven. Fish Pie. Ingredients.—Any cold fish; pep- per and salt ; 1 egg ; a little milk; some bread-crumbs ; a few lumps of butter. Method.—Put the fish (the bones aud skin having been carefully re- moved with two forks) into a pie- dish ; season with pepper and salt, and add the egg beaten up in a little milk; cover with bread- crumbs, and lay a few lumps of butter on the top. Bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour. Fish Pudding. Ingredients.—1 lb. cold boiled fish ; 1 lb. potatoes ; 1 oz. butter ; 1 egg ; pepper and salt. Method.—Take the fish, and, after removing the bones, add the pola- toes (washed), mixing both well together with ‘ a fork. Then melt the butter, and pour over, adding salt and pepper. Beat up the egg, and add it last. Place in a pudding- dish ; smooth and mark neatly on the top ; and bake for half an hour. (The above mixture, minus the butter, makes into excellent cakes for breakfast. Flour it well, divide it into portions, and, having put a tablespoonful of dripping into a frying-pan, fry the cakes a light brown.) Fish Rock. (German.) Ingredients.—Remains of any cold fish ; 1 onion ; a few finely mashed potatoes ; a little butter ; some fried bread-crumbs ; pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Mince the onion very finely and put it in a stewpan with a little butter ; when it is quite soft, add the fish (picked carefully from the bones), the mashed pota- toes, seasoning, and a small piece of butter. Stir the whole together over the fire until very hot, then pile it high on a dish, sp .inkle with fried bread-crumbs, and serve. Fish Scallop. Ingredients.—Any cold fish ; a little milk ; 1 egg; 1 blade of pounded mace, if liked ; 1 dessert- spoonful of flour; 1 small spoon- ful of anchovy sauce ; pepper and 3—2