PASTRY. 99 water, make the whole into a dry- dough. Knead this lightly to- gether, and roll it out thinly ; scatter over it in small pieces half of the remainder of the butter ; fold the dough into three ; turn it half round, and roll out thinly again. Add the rest of the butter in bits ; fold, and cut into two pieces. Next separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs. Place the cheese in a basin, drop in the yolks and lemon-juice, and beat well together. Whisk the ■whites of the eggs to a froth, and add it very lightly to the mixture in the basin, stirring gently. Take half the dough, and roll it out to a square. Place it on a tin, and pour the mixture over it. Then take the remaining piece of dough, roll it out, and put it on the top of the cheese, marking it with a knife in stripes. Place the whole in a quick oven, and bake for fifteen minutes. When it is cooked, cut it into fingers. Suet Crust. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour ; 5, 6, or 8 oz. of good beef suet; cold water. Method.—Shave the. suet ex- tremely fine ; mix a little of it with some flour, and proceed ac- cording to directions for Puff Paste (1). Or it can be made in the usual way. Having chopped the suet very finely, rub it well into the flour, then add water enough to make the whole into a smooth paste ; roll it out, and it is ready for use. To Glaze Pastry. When the pastry is nearly baked, take it out of the oven and brush it over with the well-beaten yolk of an egg ; return it to the oven to set the glaze. To Ice Pastry. Ingredients. — The white of 1 egg ; 1 tablespoonful of powdered sugar. Method. — Whisk the white lightly, with the sugar, to a stiff froth. Spread it over the pastry wThen it is nearly baked, then re- turn the pastry to the oven for a few minutes to harden the glaze. Care must be taken not to let it burn. Apple Pie. Ingredients. — Apples ; moist sugar ; the grated rind of 1 lemon; suet paste made with 6 oz. of flour, 6 oz. of good beef suet, a pinch of salt, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and water. Method. — Pare, quarter, and core the apples, and put them on to stew with a very little water When they are about half cooked, put them into a deep pie-dish, having previously added moist sugar to taste, and the grated rind of the lemon. Have ready the paste rolled out thin ; lay a border round the edge of the pie-dish, put on the cover in the usual way, and bake in a moderate oven for about three-quarters of an hour. It is a good plan, especially where the family is large, always to half cook the fruit before putting it in the tart. By this means it will be so reduced that you will be able to get into the pie-dish nearly twice as much fruit as you would were the fruit uncooked. By this means, also, you will prevent the crust being kept too long in the oven.