SOUPS. 23 Sheep’s Head Broth. Ingredients.—1 sheep’s head and trotters (prepared); 1 neek of mutton (optional); 1 breakfast- cupful of barley ; 2 quarts of cold water ; a few turnips and carrots ; a little parsley; 2 onions. Method.—Put the sheep’s head and trotters, the neck of mutton, the barley, and the water, into a pot; let them boil, and then skim thoroughly. Add the turnips and carrots (cut small), the parsley and the onions ; and let the whole boil again slowly, till the head is quite tender. Then let the pot stand near the fire (covered closely) for a quarter of an hour before serving. The head and trotters should be brought to table with whole carrots and turnips. Sheep’s head, it may be noted, is excellent when cold. (It is prepared for broth in the following manner: Have the head and trotters well singed to begin with. Split the head down the middle ; take out the brains, and rub the head all over with them; then lay the head and trotters to soak in water all night; and scrape and wash them well before using.) Tomato Soup. Ingredients. — £ a turnip ; 2 carrots; 6 onions; £ lb. tin of tomatoes; pepper and salt to taste ; stock. Method. — Boil the above in- gredients in stock, and when soft press through a colander as much of the substance as possible. Re- turn the liquid to the pot, let it boil up, and serve. Turnip Soup. Ingredients,—3 lb, of turnips ; 4 oz. of butter; 2 quarts of stock (boiling) ; salt and pepper. Method.—Wash and wipe the turnips, and cut them into quar- ter-inch pieces. Melt the butter in a stewpan, and, before it begins to boil, put in the turnips. Stew the whole gently for three-quarters of an hour without browning it ; add the boiling stock, and simmer for another three-quarters of an hour. Put through a sieve or strainer ; place the soup again on the fire ; stir it, whilst boiling, for three minutes ; take off the scum ; season to taste ; and serve very hot. Vegetable Stock, for Clear Soup. Ingredients.—1 quart of cold water ; 1 large turnip ; 3 carrots ; 1 large head of celery ; f lb. of onions ; some mushrooms (if pos- sible) ; some herbs ; 1 doz. pepper- corns ; 4 cloves ; and a crust of bread. Method.—Cut up the turnip and onions, and tie up the herbs with white cotton into a little bouquet. Then place all the ingredients in a saucepan or stock-pot; put the saucepan or pot in the oven, and boil slowly, skimming frequently, for an hour. Then add a salt- spoonful of salt, and skim again. Simmer slowly (for about three hours) till the stock is reduced to a pint and a half, and then strain through a sieve. What is left in the sieve can now be thrown away, for all the goodness will be in the remainder. Clear Vegetable Soup. Ingredients.—^ lb. carrots ; £ lb. turnips ; \ lb. onions ; £ lb. leeks ; 2 oz. of butter ; 3 pints of stock ; a cupful of barley.