23 SAUCES. mustard, 1 teaspoonful of white sugar, and a little salt ; vinegar. Method.—Grate the horseradish very fine,and add to it the mustard, sugar, and salt in the above pro- portions ; then add the vinegar, a teaspoonful at a time, working it well till it comes to a proper con- sistency. The yolk of a hard- boiled egg, worked in, is considered an improvement by some cooks. For roast beef. Lemon Sauce for Puddings. Ingredients.—The rind and juice of ^ a lemon ; ^ wine-glassful of sherry ; j wine-glassful of water ; ^ oz. of butter; ^ tablespoonful of flour; 2 eggs; sugar to taste. Method.— Rub the half-lenlonon to some lumps of sugar, press the juice from it, and strain through a piece of clean muslin. Stir the butter and flour in a saucepan over the fire till they become slightly brown; then add the lemon-juice, wine, water, and sugar (crushed) on which the lemon has been rubbed. When the sugar is tho- roughly melted, pour in the yolks of the eggs, well beaten ; stir the sauce till it thickens—if allowed to boil, it will curdle; and serve. Lobster Sauce. Ingredients.—1 hen-lobster; 1 oz. of butter; some melted butter; essence of anchovies ; cayenne ; mace; salt; and some rich cream. Method.—Take care, in the first place, that the lobster is thoroughly fresh. Then split the tail, and, taking out the inside coral, pound half of it in a mortar with rather less than the ounce of butter, after- wards rubbing it through a hair- sieve. This done, take the flesh of the fish, and cut it into half-inches. Next make some good melted but- ter, sufficient for the quantity of sauce desired; season with the anchovy, cayenne, mace, and salt; and add a few spoonfuls of cream. Mix a small portion of the sauce with the pounded coral; and when the latter is in a liquid state, add it to the remainder of the sauce, mixing the two well to- gether. Finally, add the cut-up flesh, and let the whole heat tho- roughly by the side of the fire, taking care that it does not come to the boil. Then serve. Maitre d’Hotel Sauce. Ingredients.—^ pint of melted butter, made with milk ; salt, pep- per, or cayenne; 2 teaspoonfuls of finely minced parsley; the juice of ^ a lemon. Method. — Prepare the melted butter over a clear fire ; when on the point of boiling, add the sea- soning, parsley, and lemon-juice; let it boil up, then serve. Mayonnaise Sauce. Ingredients.—2 eggs ; 1 gill of salad-oil; 2 tablespoonfuls of tar- ragon vinegar; pepper and salt. Method.—Break the eggs, and separate the yolks entirely and completely from the whites. Place the yolks in a basin, which in hot weather should be placed on ice, so that its contents may be kept perfectly cold—an important mat- ter. Whisk the yolks well mean- while, adding the oil drop by drop, very slowly, until the mixture be- comes so thick that you whisk with difficulty. Then add the oil more quickly, though not too much so. Finally, add the vinegar, pepper, and salt. Two yolks, we may add, are sufficient for any quantity of sauce, the vinegar being added in proportion to the amount of oil used.