131 CAKES, SCONES, ETC. Method.—Work the butter to a cream; add to it the sugar and the whites of the eggs whisked for twenty minutes ; beat the yolks also for twenty minutes. Mix all thoroughly together. Then add the flour, and the currants (well washed and dried), and sufficient nutmeg and cinnamon. Put por- tions of this mixture into heart- shaped tins; sprinkle sugar over them; and bake in a moderate oven. Pice Cakes. Ingredients.—5 yolks of eggs, and 1 white ; \ lb. of castor-sugar ; a little ground cinnamon ; £ oz. of sweet almonds ; 4 bitter almonds; £ lb. of ground rice ; a large wine- glassful of brandy ; ^ lb. of fresh butter. Method.—Beat up the eggs, sugar, and cinnamon well together; pound in a mortar the sweet and bitter almonds, and while pounding add by degrees the eggs, etc. When sufficiently mixed, it should look like thick cream. Add to the mix- ture the ground rice, brandy, and fresh butter melted. Beat the whole well, pour into buttered patty-pans, and bake about a quar- ter of an hour. Plain Rock Cakes. Ingredients. — 4 tablespoonfuls of flour; 2 oz. of butter or lard ; 2 tablespoonfuls of brown sugar; 2 tablespoonfuls of raisins (stoned) ; 1 oz. chopped candied peel; 2 tea- spoonfuls of baking-powder; 1 egg; lemon or cinnamon flavouring. Method.—Rub the butter or lard into the flour; add the baking- powder and other ingredients. Beat up the egg, and mix in tho- roughly, with as much milk as will make a stiff paste ; place in little high rough heaps, on a greased tin; and bake in a very quick oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. Seed Cake. (Good Family Recipe.) Ingredients.—f lb. of flour; 6 oz. of sugar; 6 oz. of butter ; 1 des- sert-spoonful of baking-powder ; £ teaspoonful of ginger; 1 dessert- spoonful of mixed spice; 3 eggs. Method.—Rub the butter into the dry materials, and moisten with the beaten eggs, and enough milk to render the dough spongy. Bake in a tin, in a moderate oven. Scotch Shortbread. Ingredients.—2 lb. of flour; 6 oz. powdered sugar ; ^ lb. mixed can- died peel; 2 oz. sweet almonds; 1 f lb. butter ; caraway-comfits. Method.—Rub 1 lb. of butter into the flour ; melt the other £ lb., and mix with the rubbed butter and flour. Knead lightly and roll on a board, letting the paste be about one inch thick and taking any shape preferred. Pinch the cakes round the edges, and ornament them with candied peel, comfits, and almonds blanched and slit. Prick the cakes over with a fork, and bake on thick greased paper. Little Short-Cakes. Ingredients.— 1 lb. of dried flour; 4 oz. of butter; 4 oz. of pounded sugar; 1 egg; 1 or 2 spoonfuls of thin cream. Method.—Rub the butter into the flour; then add the sugar and eggs, and a spoonful or two of thin cream to make it into a paste ; roll out thin, and cut with a wine-glass into round cakes. Currants or caraways may be added to them if liked. Shrewsbury Cakes. Ingredients. — § lb. of butter ; \ lb. of castor-sugar ; 2 eggs ; 1 lb.