106 PUDDINGS. saucepan, and soak it for about twenty minutes in sufficient inilk to cover it. Make a custard with the eggs, milk, and sugar; melt the gelatine, and stir into it the custard. Place the sponge-cakes, soaked in the sherry, at the bottom of a mould, and pour over them the gelatine and custard. Put the mould into a cool place, and turn out the pudding when sufficiently set. A layer of jam may be put on the sponge-cakes, if liked, before the custard is added. Cake Pudding. A delightful pudding can be quickly made by returning either sponge-cake (2) (which see) or one, two, three, four-cake (which see) to the mould, and steaming until the cake is warmed through. Then turn on to a dish, and pour clear lemon sauce (which see) or any other fruit sauce over it. Canary Pudding. Ingredients. — 3 eggs ; their weight in butter, and pounded sugar. The weight of 2 eggs in flour ; the rind of 1 lemon. Method— Melt the butter (not to oil), mix with sugar and rind of lemon grated fine. Dredge in the flour, add the eggs, and beat all well together. Put in buttered mould, and boil two hours. Serve with sweet sauce. Carrot Plum Pudding. Ingredients.—\ lb. of flour; £ lb. of suet ; £ lb. of grated carrots (raw); \ lb. of mashed potatoes ; \ lb. of sugar ; £ lb. of raisins; £ lb. of currants ; 1 oz. of candied lemon peel; a little nutmeg, and other spices. Method.—Mince the suet finely, and rub it well into the flour; see that the potatoes are free from all lumps ; stone the raisins ; wash and dry the currants ; chop the peel, and mix all the ingredients thoroughly together. No liquid is required, the carrots giving sufficient moisture. Tie in a floured cloth, or, if put in a basin, do not quite fill it, as the pudding should have room to swell. Boil for six hours, and serve with brandy-sauce. If the carrots are fresh and fine, it is impossible to detect their presence in the pud- ding. Chocolate Pudding. Ingredients.—\ lb. of light stale bread (without crust) ; 1 pint of milk; 1 oz. of butter; 2 large teaspoonfuls of powdered choco- late ; 2 eggs well beaten ; a little sugar. Method.—Boil the bread in the milk till it becomes a thick paste; when it has cooled a little, add the other ingredients, and put the whole into a buttered pie-dish. Bake for three-quarters of an hour. Cocoa-nut Pudding. Ingredients.—2 cupfuls of finely sifted bread-crumbs; 3 table- spoonfuls of Maltby’s desiccated cocoa-nut; 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar; 2 teacupfuls of boiling milk ; 3 eggs. Method. — Mix the dry ingre- dients, add the milk, and let the mixture stand for a quarter of an hour. Then add the eggs, well beaten; pour into a buttered mould, and steam for three- quarters of an hour. Serve with cream. Conservative Pudding. Ingredients.—\ lb. of ratafia and macaroon cakes mixed; 4 sponge