CAKES, SCONES, ETC. 127 the remainder of the ingredients into a large basin, having previously stoned the raisins, and having also washed, dried, and picked the cur- rants thoroughly. Take care, too, that you put in only enough milk to moisten the whole, which should be mixed thoroughly with the hands. Next put the mixture in the lined tin, flatten it on the top, wet the edges of the lining, and then cover with the piece of paste reserved for the purpose. Prick the cover with a fork, brush a little egg over it, and bake for about two hours and a half. After Dinner Cakes. Ingredients.—2 well-beaten eggs ; their weight in flour, sugar, and salt butter ; a sprinkle of carbonate of soda, and a little flavouring. Method. — Beat the butter to a cream, then mix with the other ingredients. Place in buttered patty-pans, and bake in a rather hot oven for half an hour. Either sweet, or custard sauce, served with these cakes, is an improvement. (See ‘ Sauces.’) American Dough-Nuts. Ingredients.—6 oz. of flour; 1^ oz. of sugar ; 1^ oz. of butter ; 1 egg; 1 small pinch of salt ; \ gill of "milk, or water ; \ teaspoonful of baking- powder; 1 large tablespoonful of jam. Method.—Place in. a basin the flour, butter, and sugar ; mix well with the fingers, and when tho- roughly blended, add baking- powder, and mix with a spoon. Beat up on a plate the egg, add the milk, and mix with the above ingredients in a basin, stirring well. Flour a paste-board, turn out the mixture (which should be stiff), knead lightly, flour the board again, and roll out the paste. Cut out into small rounds about one inch thick, put on half of them a little jam, and cover with the other halves. Fasten the sides lightly, without pressing. Drop the dough- nuts into heated butter or clarified fat, fry for three or four minutes till brown, keeping them well covered with fat. Drain the dough- nuts on blotting-paper, and cover with sifted sugar. Emily Tea Cakes. Ingredients.—f lb. of flour ; £ lb. good beef dripping ; 2 teaspoonfuls of baking - powder; 2 oz. mixed candied peel ; \ lb. of currants ; 3 eggs ; 1 gill of milk. Method.—Rub the baking-powder well into the flour, taking care there are no lumps. Then rub in the dripping; add all the other ingredients. Beat the yolks and the whites of the eggs separately ; add the milk, and mix well. Pour on to the other ingredients, and mix all together with two forks. Bake in small patty-pans, or in a tin lined with buttered paper. This is an excellent cake for children, or every-day use. If baked in patty-pans, the cakes should, if kept, be heated before use. Fastnachts Krapfen. Ingredients.—1 pint of lukewarm milk; 6 oz. of butter; 2 oz. of sugar ; the yolks of 6 eggs ; 2 oz. of yeast; flour; some jelly or marmalade. Method.—Mix the milk, butter, sugar, eggs, and yeast, with as much flour as will make a paste, just stiff enough to roll out ; then, with a round cutter, cut out cakes about the diameter of an orange, and an inch and a half thick ; put them on a board in a warm place to rise.