ADVERTISEMENTS. London: John Hogg, 13, Paternoster Row, E.G. Small crown 8vo., cloth, price 2s. 6d. Cookery for Invalids and Others. By Lizzie Heritage, First-class Diplomee and Medallist in Cookery and Domestic Economy. CONTENTS. INTRODUCTION. General Rules for Invalid Cookery—Convalescence—Diabetes— Pre-digested Foods—Vegetable juices—Remarks concerning Water, Wines, and Spirits, and Several Kinds of Sweeteners, etc.—CHAP. I. Wrinkles for the Kitchen, concerning Foods and Methods. (With remarks on Saccharine and its Uses.}— CHAP. II. Broths, Soups, Meat Essences and Jellies, Beef Teas, etc. (With Directions for adding Milk and Preparing Stock.)- CHAP. III. Fish Dishes. (With Hints for the Selection, Stuffing, and Cooking of Fish, and for the Preparation of Fish Sauces.)— CHAP. IV. Savoury Dishes, Meat, Poultry, Vegetables, etc. (With Hints on the Drawing and Trussing of Fowls.)—CHAP. V. Cereal Cookery, Savoury Puddings and Eggs. (With Hints on Cereals and Eggs.)—CHAP. VI. Sweet Puddings. (For Savoury Puddings, see Chapter V.)—CHAP. VII. Creams and Jellies, Bread and Cakes. (With Remarks on Gelatine, Isinglass, and Bread.)—CHAP. VIII. Beverages Hot and Cold, including Cocoa, Coffee and Tea. (With Directions how to Keep Drinks Cool and to test Milk.) “ The list of dishes, is copious and well selected, so that no difficulty will be found in providing ample variety to tempt fastidious appetites. The author has not introduced any article which is either troublesome to procure or too expensive for ordinary households, and she has made her directions for cooking and serving plain enough to be easily followed.”—Lancet. “A book of much practical value, containing a good deal of useful in- struction on the subject of invalid cookery generally and a number of recipes suitable for the sick room.”—Pall Mall Gazette. •Sixth Thousand. Fcap. «vo., boards, price Is. Depression: What it is, and how to Cure it. By A. E. Bridger, B.A., M.D., B.Sc., F.R.C.P.E., Late Physician to the Hospital for Diseases of the Chest. Author of “ Man and his Maladies,” “ The Treatment of Consumption,” etc. “ Deserves to be studied for its frank, healthy, and helpful advice.”—Sheffield Inde- pendent. HINTS FOR THE SELECTION OF CHRISTIAN NAMES. Second edition, 176 pp., cloth, price Is. 6d. The Pocket Dictionary of One Thousand Christian Names (Masculine and Feminine); with their Meanings Explained and Arranged in Four Different Ways. X3T Every Parent should consult this before deciding on a Child's Name. " This will be a useful and interesting book for those who like to learn the meaning of their own and their friends’ appellations. Parents should purchase it, as it might help them to name their children a little more originally than they do.”—Glasgow Herald. WITH STOTHARD’S ILLUSTRATIONS, ENGRAVED BY HEATH. Demy 8vo., half calf extra, gilt edges, 12s. 6d. The Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe, with a Sketch of Defoe, by Henry J. Nicoll. Note.—A complete, unabridged edition of Defoe’s masterpiece, with all the 22 beautiful Illustrations by Thomas Stothard, R.A., engraved by Charles Heath. These are now printed from the Original Copper Plates, which are still in perfect condition, having been steel-faced to preserve them. “ Mr. Hogg is to be thanked for re-issuing the ‘ Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe, with Stothard’s twenty-two designs engraved on copper by Charles Heath. Their charm is irresistible, and as book prints they rank among the classics of English art. They are delightful works. The text before us is complete, and well printed in a clear type. This edition is, therefore, excellent.”—Athenaeum.