INVALID COOKERY. 150 ^ peel of a lemon ; 2 or 3 pieces of sugar-candy. Method.—Pour the boiling water over the linseed, and add the lemon peel and sugar-candy. Let the whole stand in a covered jug till cold. If the drink is required thicker for a cough, more linseed may be added. Linseed Tea. Ingredients.—1 oz. of bruised linseed ; 2 drachms of bruised liquorice-root; 1 pint of boiling water ; sugar to taste. Method.—Put the linseed and liquorice-root into a jug, and pour over them the pint of boiling water. Cover the jug close, set it on the stove, and allow it to infuse for three or four hours. Then strain it, sweeten to taste, flavour with lemon-peel, if liked, and serve hot. Useful in acute pulmonary dis- orders. Dressed Macaroni. (Swiss Recipe.) Ingredients. — About 2 oz. of macaroni ; 1 oz. of butter ; 1 des- sert-spoonful of flour; 1 breakfast- cupful of milk ; pepper and salt to taste ; 1 or 2 eggs ; a little hot milk. Method.—Boil the macaroni over a gentle fixe for one hour. While it is'cooking the dressing can be prepared as follows : Melt the butter in a saucepan, add gradually the flour, mixing well, then pour in slowly the cupful of milk ; sea- son with pepper and salt, and cook the whole for about ten minutes. When the macaroni is quite tender, drain it and put it into a dry sauce- pan ; cover it with the dressing and let it cook, without boiling, for another ten minutes. When ready, place the macaroni in a hot dish, pour over it one or two eggs beaten up in a very little hot milk, and serve. Milk for the Sick. Milk, when given to infants or to the sick, should be boiled with a little salt and lime-water in it. Allow 2 tablespoonfuls of the latter to a pint of milk. The boiling kills the bacteria in it, and the lime-water prevents it coagu- lating into a solid mass, and corrects the tendency to become acid on the bowels. Milk Whey. Ingredients.—1 breakfast-cupful of sweet milk; 1 breakfast-cupful of butter-milk; a little sugar. Method.—Boil the sweet milk, and pour it into the butter-milk; let it stand a minute or two, then strain it through a piece of muslin. Sweeten to taste. This is a very refreshing drink. Omelette. Ingredients.—2 fresh eggs; 1 oz. of butter; a sprinkling of fine sweet herbs — marjoram, basil, lemon, thyme, parsley, chives or eschalot, chopped very fine; pepper and salt. Method.—Break the eggs into a basin, and beat them thoroughly; melt the butter in a china fire- proof omelette-pan over a clear hot fire; pour in the beaten eggs, and add at once the sprinkling of sweet herbs and seasoning. When the omelette has begun to settle, turn one half over the other with a silver knife (if you have one), and serye immediately in the omelette-pan. Do not cover it. A teaspoonful of cream and a little butter beaten up with the eggs is an improvement.