47 MEATS. prevented from drying up, and is increased in flavour. The basting is done with the fatty liquid which drains from the meat into the pan below, and which gradually grows in richness and thickness as the basting proceeds. The length of time given to roasting depends upon the size and shape of the joint, but, as a general rule, it is best to allow about a quarter of an hour for every pound of beef and mutton, and about twenty minutes for pork and veal ; in each case allowing about a quarter of a pound over. For gravy, take the liquid with which the basting has been done, and, after removing the fat from it, add to it some hot water, more or less according to circumstances. To thicken it, a little flour may be added, if liked. Should it not be sufficiently brown, add to it some burnt sugar, or some Liebig’s Extract, which will strengthen as well as colour it. Gravy should not be poured over, but round, the joint, on the dish on which it is to be taken to table. Another way is to place only a little gravy round the joint, and to serve the remainder in a small tureen. Grilling.—For this operation a strong clear fire is essential. The meat is fastened to the griller, which has been previously warmed ; and which is then affixed to the bars of the fireplace, a dish being placed underneath to catch the fat or gravy. A chop of ordinary size will take about eight minutes to do; five minutes on one side, and three on the other. Broiling.—This is cooking over, instead of before, the fire. The gridiron is placed on the fire to warm, and the chop or steak is then placed on the gridiron, which for a few minutes is kept close to the fire (as in roasting. The gridiron should then be raised more and more from the fire, according to the necessities of the case, the meat being turned occa- sionally to prevent its burning. The fire should be a clear one, and the cooking should be done carefully and slowly. Coke is better than coal for broiling. Frying.—In this process the first act is to put on the frying-pan and warm it; then put in the fat (which may be of oil, or lard, or dripping, or fat rendered down), and allow it to come to the boil. This it does not do until a pale blue vapour is seen rising from it; it must not be supposed to be boiled as soon as it begins to bubble and splutter. That is due to the presence of the water, which requires to evaporate before the fat can be said to boil. This is a very important matter; and the meat (or fish) should not be put into the pan until it is certain the fat is boiling. Then the meat should be put in at once. Frying can be done in two ways ; either with fat enough to cover the meat, which is called ‘ wet- frying,’ or with fat which is only about half an inch deep, which is called ‘ dry-frying.’ By the former mode rissoles, croquettes, fillets, and cutlets of fish, etc., maybe done ; by the latter process, steaks, fillets of beef, mutton or veal cutlets, liver and bacon, etc. In the case of wet-frying, the meat (or fish) is best coated in egg and bread-crumbs. In both cases the meat, when browned on the under side, should be turned over and browned on the other; and so on till done. When done, it should be placed on paper to allow the fat to drain ofi.