101 PASTRY; Method—Make some good puff paste (which see), roll it out to the thickness of about a quarter of an inch, cut out with a large round cutter, wet the edges, and in the centre place a layer of cur- rants (well washed and dried) ; over these some grated lemon- rind, then sugar, and lastly another layer of currants ; squeeze some lemon-juice over the top, and cover with paste ; press the edges together all round, and brush over with the white of the egg. Bake from twenty minutes to half an hour. These cakes are exceed- ingly good re-heated. Before putting them in the oven they should be opened up and a small piece of butter laid in the centre of each. Matrimony Tart. Ingredients.—1 dozen apples ; ^ lb. of currants (picked, washed, and dried) ; 2 oz. of candied peel chopped linely ; sifted sugar ; a little grated nutmeg, if liked; puff paste. Method. — Pare, quarter, and core the apples ; put them into a saucepan with a little water, and stew them to a pulp, stirring fre- quently ; then add the currants, the candied peel, sugar to taste, and nutmeg. Line a tart-tin or dish with puff-paste ; pour the fruit, when it has cooled a little, into it; cover with crust, press the edges together all round, make a hole in the centre, and bake. Mince-Meat. {For Mince Pies.') Ingredients.—1 lb. of raisins? 1\ lb. of currants ; l£ lb. of beef suet; 1 lemon ; f lb. cooked beef (all lean) ; 1 lb. of Demerara sugar; 1 lb. of apples ; 6 oz. of candied peel; 1 small nutmeg ; £ pint of brandy. Method.—IStone and chop the raisins ; thoroughly wash and dry the currants ; mince the suet very finely, also the beef and apples ; slice the candied peel ; grate the nutmeg, and grate the rind off the lemon. When all the ingredients have been well mixed together, add the lemon-juice and brandy, stir a few times, then press the whole closely into a jar, which cover down very tightly, and keep in a cool place. To Make Mince Pies. Ingredients.—Puff-paste (f lb. of butter or lard to 1 lb. of Hour) ; mince-meat. Method.—To make, say, a dozen mince pies, proceed as lollows : Roll out the paste to the desired thickness, cut it into two dozen rounds the size of your patty- pans, and with a dozen of these rounds cover the tins ; lay some mince-meat in the centre of each ; wet the edges of the pastry, and cover with the remaining rounds, pressing the edges lightly together. Bake in a brisk oven for about twenty minutes. Before baking, the pies may be glazed, if de- sired, with white of egg and sifted sugar. Baked Roly-Poly. Ingredients.—Equal quantities of Hour and good beef dripping ; a little salt; 1 teaspoonful of sugar ; 1 teaspoonful of baking- powder ; buttermilk or water ; jam. Method.—Mix well in a basin the flour, dripping, sugar, salt, and baking-powder, and add as much buttermilk or water as will make