PUDDINGS. 116 boiling water, and let it dissolve on the stove. Strain the lemon- juice, and then the dissolved gela- tine, through muslin, into a large lined pan ; add the whites of the eggs, well beaten. Beat all to- gether into a thick cream, and pour into moulds. Half the quan- tity will fill a pint mould. Make a custard of the yolks of the eggs and \ pint of milk, and pour round the pudding when served. The pudding should remain in the mould over night, and be turned out next day when required. Sponge-Cake Pudding. (American.) Ingredients.—1 egg ; f large cup- ful of sugar; f large cupful of milk ; 1^ large cupful of hour; 2 tablespoonfuls of butter (melted) ; 2 heaped teaspoonfuls of baking- powder. Method.—Mix together the flour, baking-powder, and sugar, add the egg (previously beaten), milk and butter ; stir till smooth ; put the mixture in four buttered soup- plates, and bake in a hot oven. When sufficiently cooked, pile on a dish, one on the top of the other, spreading preserve between each layer. Serve hot, with custard- sauce, in proportion of 1 egg to a large cupful of milk, sweetened. Do not boil. Sponge-Cake Pudding. Ingredients. — Some sponge- cake ; a little brandy; a few dried cherries ; 3 whole eggs, and 4 yolks ; pint of milk; sugar to taste ; a little nutmeg. Method.—Steep the sponge-cake in the brandy; butter a mould, and stick it over with the dried cherries. Put the cake in, and make a custard with the eggs, milk, sugar, and nutmeg; fill up the mould, and boil one hour. Serve with arrowroot and brandy- sauce. Suet Pudding. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour; 6 oz. of suet; a little salt; 2 teaspoon- fuls of sugar; 1 dessert-spoonful of baking-powder ; milk and water. Method.—Chop the suet finely, and add to it the flour, salt, sugar, and baking-powder. Stir in with fork or spoon sufficient milk and water to make a thick batter. Put it in a buttered basin, and boil for three hours. To be served hot, with sifted sugar. Tapioca Pudding. Ingredients. — £ teacupful of tapioca ; 1 teacupful of boiling water ; a pinch of salt ; 1 table- spoonful of sugar ; a little flavour- ing ; 3 or 4 eggs ; 4 or 5 teacupfuls of boiling milk. Method.—Wash the tapioca well, and put it into a basin ; pour the boiling water over it, and add the sugar, salt, and flavouring. Let it soak for a little ; then stir in the yolks and whites of the eggs beaten separately, and last of all the boil- ing milk. Mix all well together, pour into a buttered pudding-dish, and bake for an hour in a moderate oven. Three Minutes’ Pudding. Ingredients. — 2 oz. of flour ; l£ oz. of castor sugar; 2 small teaspoonfuls of baking-powder; 2 eggs. Method.—Mix the flour, sugar, and baking-powder well together, adding, last of all, the eggs, well beaten. Bake for three minutes in a very hot oven.