103 PUDDINGS. pudding-dish, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and bake in a very slow oven for about three-quarters of an hour. If a plainer custard is desired, two of the eggs may be omitted, or two more cupfuls of milk may be added. Dough Dumplings. Divide a pound of dough (from a baking of light bread) into six pieces of an equal size ; form these into dumplings ; drop them into a saucepan of fast-boiling water, and boil them rapidly from twelve to fifteen minutes. Send to table at once, the moment they are dished. Serve with wine sauce, raspberry vinegar, or sugar and butter. They must never be cut, but should be torn apart with a couple of forks. Eve’s Pudding. Ingredients.—The outside part of 2 grated carrots; 2 grated apples ; 2 grated potatoes ; 1 tea- cupful of minced suet; 4 teacup- fuls of grated bread ; 1 teaspoon- ful of spice; 1 teacupful of currants and raisins ; 3 eggs ; milk. Method.—Wash and dry the currants, beat the eggs, and mix all the ingredients together. Add sufficient milk to moisten thoroughly. Put into a greased basin, and steam for three hours. Turn out, and serve with any sweet sauce. Fig Pudding. Ingredients.—6 oz. of suet; | lb. of figs ; | lb. of bread-crumbs ; 4 oz. of moist sugar; a little nutmeg; 1 egg; a cupful of milk. Method.—Chop the suet and figs fine; mix first the suet with the bread-crumbs ; then add the figs and sugar, a little nutmeg, the egg, well beaten, and the cup of milk ; stir all well together, and boil in a greased mould for four hours. Florence Pudding. Ingredients.—J lb. of flour ; \ lb. of flour of rice ; \ lb. brown sugar; i lb. of suet (well minced); \ lb. of currants ; ^ teaspoonful of car- bonate of soda ; pinch of salt, and 1 teacupful of skim-milk. Method.—Wash and dry the currants, and mix all the in- gredients well together, adding, last of all, the milk. Boil in a mould for three and a half hours. The addition of 2 eggs, with less milk, improves the pudding. Ginger Pudding. Ingredients.—21 tablespoonfuls of flour ; oz. of suet; 2 tea- spoonfuls of caraway seeds (if liked) ; 1 teaspoonful of allspice ; 1 teaspoonful of ginger ; 1 tea- spoonful of cinnamon ; £ teaspoon- ful of carbonate of soda ; 1 tea- cupful of milk ; 1 teacupful of syrup (warmed) ; 1 egg. Method.—Rub the suet, very finely minced, well into the flour ; mix in the other dry ingredients ; then add the milk, egg, and syrup. Pour into a basin, cover with a floured cloth, and steam three hours. Serve with sweet sauce (2) (which see). Gingerbread Pudding'. Ingredients.—f lb. of flour; £ lb. of syrup ; £ lb. suet; 1 table- spoonful sugar ; 2 teaspoonfuls ginger; juice of 1 small lemon ; 1 teaspoonful soda, a little milk. Method.—Mix together in a basin the flour, suet (previously