PUDDINGS. 114 of buffer; a teaspoonful of boiling water. Method.—Soak tbe tapioca in water for a few minutes, then, having washed the rhubarb and cut it very small, mix it in a pot with the tapioca, adding the sugar, butter, and ginger. Stew the whole for half an hour, stirring frequently. Place it in a mould, and when it is cold, turn it out. Rice Pudding. Ingredients.—1 quart of milk ; tablespoonfuls of rice ; sugar to taste ; a lump of butter. -Method.—Wash the rice and put it into a pudding dish ; add the sugar, milk, and the butter, and grate a little nutmeg over the top, it liked. Bake in a moderate oven for three hours or more, till the rice is quite tender. If eggs are used, let the rice simmer in the milk for about twenty minutes ; then, when it has slightly cooled, add the eggs, well beaten. Rice and Arrowroot Pudding. (To eat cold.) Ingredients.—1 quart of milk ; £ oz. of isinglass ; 2 tablespoon - iuls of ground-rice ; 2 tablespoon- fuls of best arrowroot ; 2 oz. of whiter sugar ; flavouring of lemon or ratafia. Method.—Put the milk into a saucepan with the isinglass, sugar, and a few drops of the essence ; when quite hot, pour it over the rice and arrowroot, previously mixed smooth with a little cold milk. Simmer gently for ten minutes, stirring continually; rinse a mould in cold water ; pour in the pudding; turn out when cold, pour custard over, and serve. Ground-Rice Pudding. Ingredients.—1 quart of milk ; sugar to taste ; 3 tablespoonfuls of ground-rice ; 3 or 4 eggs ; a few drops of essence of lemon, or any other flavouring; a little salt. Method.—Put the milk into a saucepan with the sugar ; when it boils, add the rice, previously mixed smooth with a little cold milk, stir until thick ; allow it to cool a little, then mix in the eggs, well beaten, the flavouring, and salt. Pour into a buttered pudding- dish, and bake in a moderate oven for one hour. This pudding, with the addition of three more table- spoonfuls of rice, may be boiled instead of baked. Put it into a buttered basin, tie it down with a cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and boil for one hour and a half. Roly-poly Pudding. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour; 6 oz. of suet; 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar; 1 dessert spoonful of baking-powder; a little salt; ^ pint of milk and water, mixed. Method.—Mince the suet finely and rub it well into the flour, pre- viously mixed with the other dry ingredients. Make the whole into a stiff paste with the above pro- portion of milk and water, roll out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, roll up closely, tie in a floured cloth, and boil for three hours. Before serving, cut the pudding into thin slices and pour hot syrup over. Roly-poly Jam Pudding. Ingredients.—f lb. of suet-paste (see ‘ Pastry ’) ; | lb. of jam. Method.—Make a light suet- paste by recipe given, and roll out about half an inch thick. Put over