16 SOUPS. with the pot-liquor or water ; add the onions and herbs, and let it boil for three hours, removing the scum as it rises. Take out the head, cut it into small pieces, and strain the soup. Mix the ground rice with the ketchup, and thicken the soup with it. Season, and let the whole simme*: for ten minutes. A glass of sherry improves the soup. Carrot Soup. Ingredients. — 2 lb. of carrots, 3 oz. of butter, 4| pints of brown gravy soup, salt and cayenne. Method..—Scrape and wash the carrots thoroughly, dry them, and cut them into quarter-inch pieces. Put the butter into a stewpan, and when it is melted, add 2 lbs. of the cut carrots. Stew gently for an hour without browning ; add the gravy-soup, and simmer for fifty or sixty minutes. Rub through a sieve or strainer ; add condiments to taste ; boil gently for five minutes, takeoff the scum, and serve very hot, with bread cut into dice and fried. (Add to the soup thus made, 3 oz. of Scotch or pearl barley, soaked for a night, and stewed slowly next day for an hour and a half in a quart of broth; and the result will be found very appetizing. Another way is to reduce somewhat the amount of carrots and use 3 oz. of rice previ- ously swollen in broth till tender.) Celery Soup. Ingredients.—2 quarts of stock : £ pint of cream or milk ; 4 heads of celery ; 4 oz. of flour. Method. — After washing the celery thoroughly, cut it up, and, adding it to the stock, let the two simmer gently for half an hour or more till well done. Add a thick- ening, made of the flour; and boil the whole for three minutes, stirring the while. Rub the soup through a sieve; replace it in the sauce- pan; add the cream; stir; and boil again. Serve with crusts of bread, fried. Chestnut Soup. Ingredients.— 2 quarts of chest- nuts ; 1 quart of water ; 1 pint of milk; 1 gill of cream; 4 eggs; 2 oz. of fresh butter; a pinch of sugar and of grated nutmeg; salt and pepper. Method.—Shell the chestnuts (by boiling them for a minute, a cut having been made in the side of each nut before putting them in the water). Beat up the yolks of the eggs. Put the nuts into the water in a saucepan; cook slowly, rub through a sieve, and put back on the fire, stirring them till they boil. Then add the milk, the cream, the yolks of the eggs, the butter, the sugar, the nutmeg, with salt and pepper in moderation. Serve with bread fried in butter. Cock-a-leekie. Ingredients.—1 capon or large fowl (trussed as for boiling) ; 2 or 3 bunches of leeks : 5 quarts of medium stock ; pepper and salt. Method.—Put the fowl into the stock, along with half of the leeks, from which shall have been taken the roots and part of the heads, and which shall also have been cut up into half-inch pieces. Let the whole simmer gently for half an hour, after which add the remain- der of the leeks. Again simmer— this time for three or four hours. Mix carefully and season to taste. Finally, take out the fowl, carve it neatly, place the pieces in a tureen, and pour the soup over them.