POULTRY AND GAME. 74 quantity of either over it, and send the other to table in a tureen separately. Oyster sauce and bread sauce may be substituted for the above sauces, if preferred. To Broil the Legs of a Turkey. Ingredients.—The legs of a cold roast turkey ; pepper and salt ; cayenne ; lemon-juice ; butter. Method.—Take the legs from a cold roast turkey, and score them across with a sharp knife ; season them with pepper and salt and a pinch of cayenne, and squeeze a little lemon-juice over them. Place them in a Dutch oven before the fire, watch carefully that they do not burn, turn them occasion- ally, and rub a little fresh butter over them when they begin to smoke. When nicely browned, serve on a hot dish with a piece of butter on the top of each. If preferred, the legs may be dressed on the gridiron, but the above method will be found the more satisfactory. Hashed Turkey. Ingredients.—Remains of cold turkey and stuffing ; flour; pepper and salt; butter ; some sliced onions ; 1 pint of broth ; 1 dessert- spoonful of mushroom ketchup ; 1 dessert-spoonful of pickled walnut vinegar ; a little grated nutmeg ; a pinch of cayenne (if liked). Method.—Cut the remains of the cold turkey into small pieces, roll them in flour, and season with pepper and salt. Melt a little butter in a stewpan over the fire, and half fry in it the sliced onions. Add a little flour, brown it, then stir in by degrees the broth. Put in the pieces of turkey and stuff- ing, cover closely, and simmer gently for one hour. Arrange the meat neatly on a hot dish ; add to the sauce in the stewpan the re- maining ingredients, boil, stir well, and pour vover the turkey. The dish may be garnished with sippets of toast, slices of lemon, and, if necessary, forcemeat-balls. Roast Turkey. Ingredients. — 1 turkey ; some good stuffing (see ‘Forcemeat,’ etc.) ; butter ; flour. Method.—If the turkey has not been regularly trussed and pre- pared by the poulterer, the bird must be plucked, drawn, singed, and the hard tendons of the thigh removed by breaking the legs below the knee, and pulling them out by dint of sheer force. One way of doing this is to half open a door, put the foot between the door and the jamb above the upper hinge, close the door as far as the leg of the turkey will admit, and then pull till the tendons come out. Then truss the bird, putting the liver under one pinion and the gizzard under the other ; wash and dry it thoroughly inside, and fill the breast with stuffing. Fasten a buttered paper over the breast with small skewers, and set the bird at some distance from the fire, which should be a hot and clear one. Roast from one hour and a half to two hours and a half, according to the size. Baste con- stantly with butter, and when it (the turkey) is nearly done, re- move the paper, sprinkle lightly with flour, and baste well, moving the bird a little nearer the fire that it may become nicely browned and well frothed on the surface. Serve with good brown gravy and bread sauce ; and garnish the dish with small fried sausages or forcemeat- balls.