TO USE UP COLD MEAT, ETC. 78 mince in the centre. Serve with croutons of fried bread (which see). Beef Olives. Ingredients.—Cold beef ; bread- crumbs, herbs, suet, and season- ing for forcemeat; 2 oz. butter ; 1 tablespoonful of flour ; ketchup ; stock. Method.—Cut the beef into thin slices, season them, and spread over each a little forcemeat made from above ingredients ; then roll them up, tie with string, and stew gently in gravy. The gravy may be made from stock, thickened with butter rolled in flour, and a little ketchup to taste. Meat Pudding. Ingredients.—1 lb. of any cold meat; ^ lb. of mashed potatoes ; 1 egg ; 1 teaspoonful marjoram and thyme (mixed) ; 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley ; a few browned bread-crumbs ; pepper ; salt, and a little butter. Method.—Mince the meat and put it into a basin ; mix with it the herbs, parsley, pepper, salt, and po- tatoes ; stir well and add the egg (not beaten) ; turn into a well- buttered basin lined with the bread- crumbs, tie a buttered paper over the top, and steam for three- quarters of an hour. Turn out, and serve with brown gravy. A little onion, chopped fine, may be added, if liked. Meat Rissoles. Ingredients.—1 lb. of cold meat; £ lb. bread-crumbs ; 1 tablespoonful mixed herbs ; 1 egg ; pepper and salt; 1 pint of gravy. Method.—Chop the meat finely, put it in a large basin, add the bread-crumbs, herbs, and seasoning, and mix well together. Beat the egg, and with it moisten the other ingredients. Take from this mix- ture a small portion and roll gently in the hands into a ball about six inches in diameter, place each ball as made on a dish, and when all are ready, fry carefully (in butter or lard) in a pan. Turn the balls so that they may brown on all sides, and, when done, arrange in a hot dish. Pour over them 1 pint of gravy, which, if no stock be at hand, may be made as follows: Put into a basin 1 dessert-spoon- ful of flour, and season with pepper and salt ; moisten with a little water, and stir till quite smooth. To this add 2 tablespoonfuls of ketchup (or, if preferred, 1 of ketchup and 1 of any table sauce), and enough water to make a pint of liquid altogether. Turn this gravy into a frying-pan, in which a small piece of butter has been melted, and stir slowly till the gravy thickens. Cold Meat Shape. Ingredients.—1 lb. of cooked meat ; pepper and salt; 2 oz. of macaroni ; 1 teacupful of bread- crumbs ; a little butter ; 2 dessert- spoonfuls of stock ; 1 egg. Method.—Chop the meat, beef, mutton, or veal very finely, season it with pepper and salt, and put it into a basin. Have ready the ma- caroni, previously well washed , and boiled for half an hour. Drain it thoroughly, cut it into small pieces, and mix it with the meat, adding also the bread-crumbs and a few lumps of butter. Lastly, bind the whole together with the spoonful of stock and the egg ; stir well, then put it, pressing it down with a spoon, into a well-buttered basin,