55 MEATS. bread; 1 clove; 1 pint of boiling water ; pepper and salt. Method.—Lay the steak on a clean board, beat it well, and score it across with a knife; cut it in small pieces, dredge each piece with flour, place them in a stewpan, in which a little suet has been rendered down, and brown them nicely on both sides ; add the boiling water, cover close, and stew slowly for one hour; then add the onions cut in thin slices, the bread toasted black, the clove, and pepper and salt to taste. ' Let the whole simmer gently for another two hours ; then serve. Toad in a Hole. Ingredients.—1 lb. good, thick beef-steak ; 2 eggs ; 1 pint of milk; a little salt; 2 tablespoonfuls of flour. Method.—Put the steak in the oven in a baking-tin for about ten minutes, the fat of the steak will prevent it from burning. Prepare a batter with the eggs, milk, and flour, seasoned with a little salt, take out the tin, and pour the batter over the steak. Replace the tin, and bake for about half an hour. Jellied Tongue. Ingredients.—1 quart good beef stock; 1 ox tongue; 1 teacupful cold water ; 1 oz. gelatine ; pepper and salt. Method.—Put the tongue in a pan on the fire in enough water to cover it, and, when it boils, remove all scum : then put it at the side to cook slowly until quite tender. When done, take it out, skin it, curl it up, and place it in a large mould. Put the gelatine to soak in cold water for ten minutes, then place it in a saucepan with the stock, and season to taste. Stir till boiling, then pour through a flannel bag. Pour the gelatine and stock into the mould, and turn out on a dish when cold. Tripe. (Scotch Recipe.) Ingredients.—Tripe ; water ; 3 onions ; 1 pint of milk; 1 dessert- spoonful of flour ; butter ; chopped parsley ; a little white pepper, and salt. Method.— See that the tripe (un- dressed) is quite fresh, clean it thoroughly, cut it into moderately sized pieces for helping at table, and put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them. Boil slowly for seven or eight hours until quite tender. If the tripe is old, it will require even longer boil- ing than this. Cut the onions into thin slices, and steam them soft in a good piece of butter. Make a thickening of the flour and milk,add the pepper, salt, and chopped par- sley, and stir one way over the fire until it boils. Put in the tripe (out of the liquor in which it has been boiled) and the onions; let the whole simmer gently for ten minutes, then serve. This makes a delicious and economical dish. Another way is to leave the tripe in the water, and to stir into it, a few minutes before dishing, the beaten up yolks of 2 or 3 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of corn-flour, and 1 of butter. Tripe with Onion Sauce. Ingredients. — Tripe (dressed); milk and water; onion sauce. (See ‘ Sauces.’) Method.—Wash and trim the tripe, put it on in cold water, bring it to the boil, then throw the water