TO USE UP COLD MEAT, ETC. 79 and steam for one hour. When done, turn out on a dish, and serve. Potato Puff. Ingredients.—Some cold roast beef or mutton, or some veal or ham ; pepper and salt; pickles ; some mashed potatoes; 1 egg; flour. Method.—Free the meat from all gristle and hard bits ; cut it up small ; mix with it a few chopped pickles, if liked, and season with pepper and salt. Boil the potatoes, and mash them very smoothly with a fork or spoon ; make them into a paste with the egg, and roll out, dredging with flour. Cut into rounds the size of a saucer, place the meat upon one half, and fold the other over like a puff; pinch neatly round, and fry a light brown in boiling fat. Veal Pudding. Ingredients.—1 lb. of cold under- done veal; the grated rind of 1 lemon ; pepper and salt ; a little nutmeg; 1 gill of second stock; 1 gill of milk; some bread-crumbs; a little butter. Method. — Mince the veal very finely; and season it with the lemon- rind, a little nutmeg, and the pepper and salt. Put it in a stewpan over the fire; add the stock and milk, and stir the whole until it boils. Let it simmer gently for ten minutes, then pour into a pie-dish, cover with bread-crumbs, lay a few pieces of butter on the top, and brown quickly before the fire or in a hot oven. Stale Bread. Crusts or scraps of stale bread may be made into puddings, or dried and powdered for crumbs. Keep the bits (until required for use) in a clean pan or tin box kept for the purpose. Cheese Scraps. Crusts and scraps of cheese may be grated and used for puddings, sandwiches, Welsh rare-bit, etc. Grated cheese mixed with mashed potatoes makes an excellent pud- ding ; it is good also mixed with porridge. Dripping. If clarified (see ‘ To Clarify Dripping’) it can be used for making pastry, cakes, etc. Pieces of Fat. (Cooked or uncooked.) These rendered down (see ‘ To Clarify Fat’) may be used for frying, pastry, etc. Meat Liquor. The liquor in which meat has been boiled can be used (when not too salt) to make lentil and other vegetable soups. Meat Scraps. These (if there are sufficient) can be pounded in a mortar and potted, or may be made into a potato pie, etc. If not enough to re-cook, they can be put into the stock-pot. Bice Water; The water in which rice has been boiled need not be wasted. It can be used as stock for soup, or, flavoured with lemon and sugar, and iced, it makes a refreshing drink. Stock Skimmings. Can be used instead of butter for frying cutlets, steak, etc. Cold Vegetables. May be re - heated in various ways. (See ‘ Vegetables.’)