37 FISH. few minutes on the toaster before the fire ; rub a little fresh butter over it, place two or three nicely poached eggs on the top, and serve on a hot dish. Stewed Findon Haddock. Ingredients.—1 Findon haddock (about \ lb.); 1 breakfast-cupful of milk and water ; 1 teaspoonful of butter. Method.—First skin the haddock, which can be done by placing it on the table with the skin-side upper- most, and then pulling the skin off from the top downwards. This can be done without tearing the flesh. Then flour well, and cut the fish into three or four pieces. Put the milk and water and butter into a pan, along with the fish ; let the whole come to the boil, and then simmer gently for five minutes. Place the fish on a hot plate, and serve with the sauce poured over it. Baked Halibut. Ingredients.—About 3 lb. of hali- but ; 1 cupful of boiling water, slightly salted ; 1 oz. of butter ; 2 tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce, strained, or 1 large tablespoonful of tomato ketchup ; pepper to taste ; a little lemon-juice or vine- gar ; 1 dessert-spoonful of browned flour. Method.—Soak the piece of hali- but in strong salt and water for one hour to extract the fishy flavour ; wash in fresh cold water, dry thoroughly, and, with a knife, make incisions about a quarter of an inch apart through the tough skin on the top ; place in a drip- ping-pan ; pour the cupful of salted boiling water over it, invert another pan above it, and cook one hour, basting three times with the salt water. Itcmove the upper pan, rub the ounce of butter well over the top of the fish, let it get a nice pale brown, baste once more with the hot water, then lift the halibut carefully on to a hot dish, and keep it warm while the sauce is being prepared. Strain the water in the dripping-pan into a saucepan, add the strained tomato sauce or ketchup, pepper to taste, lemon-juice or vinegar,and browned flour ; stir well, let it boil a mo ment, then pour into a gravy- tureen, and serve. Halibut Fish Cakes. Ingredients.—1 lb. cooked hali- but : 2 lb. mashed potatoes ; a small piece of butter ; a little salt; 1 egg ; a little milk, if necessary. Method.—Pick the fish carefully from the bones, mix it well with the potatoes, butter, and salt, then add the egg, and a very little milk, if necessary. Make into round flat cakes and fry a delicate brown in fresh dripping or lard ; drain on paper, and serve very hot. Any cooked fish, such as cod, haddock, plaice, etc., are nice done in this way. Baked Herrings. Ingredients.—Fresh herrings ; a few cloves ; pepper ; salt ; vine- gar ; a few bay-leaves. Method.—Scale, wash, and dry the herrings thoroughly ; lay them on a board, and rub well over and into them sime pounded cloves, pepper, and silt, previously mixed together. Lay them straight (or they can be boned and rolled) in a deep earthenware dish. Cover with vinegar and a few bay-leaves. Tie strong paper over the top of the dish, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour or more.