84 VEGETABLES. Method.—Sprinkle a little flour over the bottom of a saucepan, add a little butter, pepper and salt, and melt all together ; lay in the mush- rooms, previously peeled, and stew for five minutes. Spanish Onions. Ingredients. — Spanish onions ; water; a little butter ; pepper and salt. Method.—Peel the onions care- fully ; put them into a saucepan with water and plenty of salt, and boil for half an hour ; drain them well; place them in a stewpan with somo butter, pepper and salt, cover closely, and stew very gently for two or three hours, or longer, according to the size of the onions. Care must be taken that they do not cook too quickly ; and they must be basted occasionally with their own liquor. If preferred onions may be boiled in water (having been previously blanched), or stewed in milk or broth. Mashed Parsnips. Ingredients.—2 quarts of boiling water ; 1 large spoonful of salt; parsnips ; butter ; milk or cream; pepper and salt. Method.—Wash and scrape the parsnips, put them into the sauce- pan of boiling salted water, and boil until perfectly tender (from one to two hours, according to size). Drain in a colander, press as dry as possible, then mash quite smooth with a wooden spoon. Add a small lump of butter, a spoonful of milk or cream, a sprinkle of pepper and salt, and stir all over the fire till very hot; pile high on a dish, and serve at once. If pre- ferred, the parsnips, after they are boiled, can be cut into slices and fried. Cold Parsnips. Mash them with milk, and a little butter, pepper and salt. To Boil Green Peas. Ingredients.—1 quart of fresh young peas; a little mint; salt ; 3 tablespoonfuls of butter ; pepper. Method.—Have the peas freshly gathered if possible ; shell them, and roll them in a dry cloth, but do not wash them. Put them into a saucepan, with some salt and a sprig or two of mint, and pour over just sufficient boiling water to cover them. Boil, with the lid off the saucepan, for fifteen minutes; then drain them in a colander, put them back into the saucepan with the butter, add a little pepper, shake them over the fire for a minute or two, and serve. Old peas require half an hour to boil. To Stew Peas. Ingredients.—Some young peas ; a little butter ; a sprig of parsley, and one of mint, tied together*; 1 lump of sugar; a little stock; a pinch of flour. Method.—Put the peas, with the butter, parsley and mint (tied to- gether) and sugar, into a stewpan, and cover them up close. Stew them till they are soft; take out the mint and parsley; add the stock and pinch of flour; mix well together, bring to the boil, then serve. Peas Pudding. Ingredients.—1 lb. of split peas ; butter ; pepper and salt. Method.—Soak the peas for several hours. Then tie them loosely in a cloth that they may have room to swell, and boil them, putting them on in cold water, for