INVALID COOKERY,\ 149 Oatmeal Gruel. (Scotch Recipe.) Ingredients.—Some finely ground oatmeal; water. Method.—Take as much oatmeal (of the best quality) as you require, and soak it in cold water for an hour or two; stir it up, let it stand for a few minutes to settle, then carefully pour off the liquid into a saucepan, taking care not to allow any of the rough part of the meal to get into it. Stir the gruel over the fire till it boils, then let it sim- mer gently on the side of the stove for half an hour or more, stirring occasionally. When done, pour into a basin, and season with a little salt or sugar, add a lump of butter, or a little milk, if preferred. This gruel, when made thick enough, is very good eaten Cold with toast. Restorative Gruel. Ingredients.—1 oz. of rice ; 1 oz. of sago; 1 oz. of pearl barley; 3 pints of water ; a little salt or sugar; wine or brandy. Method.—Wash the rice, sago, and barley, and put them into a saucepan with the water; boil gently for three hours; then strain, season with salt or a little sugar, and flavour with wine or brandy as preferred. This is exceedingly good. Made a little thicker, it is nice eaten hot or cold, with sugar or preserves. Invalid Jelly. Ingredients.—1 pint of port wine or sherry ; 2 oz. of isinglass ; 4 oz. of sugar-candy ; \ oz. of gum- arabic ; water. Method.—Put all the dry ingre- dients into a saucepan with just sufficient water to cover them. Set the pan on the stove, and when the isinglass, sugar-candy, and gum- arabic are thoroughly dissolved, add the port wine or sherry. Strain the jelly through a piece of muslin into a jar, and keep it covered. When cold, a small piece should be given to the patient two or three times a day. Sweet Lait de P-oule. (For a Cold.) Ingredients. — The yolks of 2 eggs ; 3 or 4 lumps of sugar ; a few drops of orange-flower water ; boiling water. Method.— Beat the yolks and sugar together in a breakfast-cup, add the flavouring, then pour in, very slowly, the boiling water, taking care to stir the mixture all the time. Drink hot, when in bed. Lemonade (1). Ingredients.—6 lemons ; 1 quart of boiling water; 1 lb. of loaf- sugar ; | pint of white wine (any kind) ; \ pint of boiling milk. Method.—Peel the lemons ; put the peel into a jug, and pour the boiling water over it. When nearly cold, add the juice of the lemons, the sugar, wine, and boiling milk. Let the whole stand for a few minutes, then pour it, till quite clear, through a jelly-bag. Lemonade (2). Ingredients.—2 large lemons ; 1 quart of boiling water ; sugar to taste. Method.—Slice the lemons and put them into a jug ; add several pieces of lump-sugar ; pour over the boiling water ; cover, and let it stand till cold. Linseed Drink. Ingredients.—1 teaspoonful of linseed ; 1 quart of boiling water ;