42 FISH. remains of what has been sent i to table, flake it off the bones, stripping away every portion of skin ; then lay it into a very clean saucepan, and pour on it some Maitre d’Hotel sauce ; or, if pre- ferred, dissolve gently 2 or 3 oz. of butter with 4 or 5 spoon- fuls of water and £ teaspoon- ful of flour ; add some pepper or cayenne, a little salt, and a des- sert-spoonful or more of minced parsley. Heat the fish slowly through either of these sauces, stir- ring it till the above is well mixed. If the sauce last described is used, add the juice of half a lemon, or a little chili-vinegar, just before it is taken off the fire. Serve in a deep dish, with a border of mashed parsnips or potatoes. To Boil Salt Fish. Salt fish is usually supplied by the fishmonger in a state ready for cooking; but if it reaches you very salt and dry, soak it for a night in a large quantity of cold water ; then let it lie exposed to the air for some time, again put it in water, and continue the process till it is quite soft. Next, brush it clean, wash it well, and place it with plenty of cold water in the fish-kettle near the fire, where it should heat very slowly. Keep it at simmering-point, never allowing it to boil, for three-quarters of an hour or an hour, according to weight. The scum should be cleared off as it collects. Serve on a hot napkin, strewed with chop- ped eggs: and let it be accom- panied also by egg sauce and boiled parsnips. Sardines Caches. Ingredients.—Sardines ; 2 eggs ; a little butter; £ spoonful of chutney ; salt and cayenne to taste. Method. — Trim the sardines carefully, and gently press them between the folds of a fish-cloth to absorb their moisture. Put the yolks of the eggs, a little butter, the chutney, and seasoning into a saucepan, and keep stirring them over a slow fire till they form a fairly stiff paste. Cover the sar- dines thoroughly with this mixture; dip each one separately in egg and bread-crumbs; fry them a delicate brown in clarified butter; and serve very hot on strips of thin, crisp toast. Sardine Sandwiches. Ingredients.—1 box of sardines; some small pieces of lettuce; pep- per and salt. Method.—Put the sardines in hot water for a few minutes to free them from the oil; wipe off the skins with a clean fish-cloth; pound the fish to a paste, in a mortar ; then add the lettuce, pepper, and salt. Spread between thin slices of bread and butter, and serve. Fried Smelts. Ingredients.—12 smelts ; a little flour; 2 eggs ; some bread-crumbs; pepper and salt. Method.—Wash the smelts, and dry them thoroughly in a clean fish-cloth ; then dip them, one by one, first into the flour (to dry them); then into the eggs, pre- viously well beaten ; and, lastly, into the finely grated bread-crumbs with which the pepper and salt have been mixed. Plunge them into boiling fat or lard, and cook for about five minutes. Garnish with parsley, and serve in a folded napkin. Anchovy or shrimp sauce may be served with them.