INVALID COOKE BY. 146 the meat is a mistaken one, for the gelatinous matter thus gained is of comparatively little value, whilst the delicate aroma of the tea is lost by long boiling.’ Beef-Tea (1). Ingredients.—1 lb. of gravy beef ; f pint of water ; a little salt. Method.—Cut away every par- ticle of fat from the meat, mince it with a chopping knife, put it into an enamel saucepan, with the above proportion of water. Place the pan on the fire, and press the beef with a wooden spoon till it is on the point of boiling ; then take it off, and let it simmer gently on the side of the stove for u quarter of an hour. When ready, pour the tea from the beef, but do not strain it. Season with salt, and serve with dry toast, or lightly boiled rice. Beef-Tea (2). Ingredients. — 2 lb. of gravy beef ; 2|- pints of water. Method.—Remove all fat from the beef ; cut the latter into small pieces, and put them into a jar with the above proportion of water; place the jar, covered closely, in a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil for three or four hours. When done, pour off the tea, season the quantity re- quired with a little salt, and serve with dry toast. The remainder can be heated when wanted. Beef-Tea (3). (Dr. Lankester’s Recipe.) It is one peculiarity of albumin- ous food, that it digests more easily before cooking than after ; oysters, although eaten alive and raw, are found to digest very easily. The longer albumen is cooked, the more indigestible does it become. Thus, in making beef- tea, it becomes important to pre- vent the albumen of the blood coagulating. The beef should therefore be sliced, put into cold water for an hour or two, then squeezed and removed, and the tea heated up to the point at which it is pleasant to drink. Baked or Stewed Calf’s Foot. Ingredients. — 1 calf’s foot; 1 pint of milk ; 1 pint of water ; 1 blade of mace ; \ lemon ; 1 onion; a little celery ; and % teacupful of cream. Method.—Clean the foot well, and bake or stew it for three or four hours in the milk and water, with all the other ingredients named except the cream. The onion and celery can be omitted if not approved. The cream should be stirred in just before serving. Calf’s Sweetbread. Ingredients. — 1 sweetbread ; 1 onion ; a little thyme ; a small piece of lemon-peel ; £ pint of milk ; 1 dessert-spoonful of flour, mixed smooth in 2 or 3 spoonfuls of cold milk ; pepper and salt. Method.—Soak the sweetbread in cold water for one hour or longer, then put it in boiling water, or white stock, and let it simmer gently in this for twenty minutes or half an hour. To make the sauce, boil the onion, thyme, and lemon-peel in the ^ pint of milk, until it is reduced to half the quantity ; strain the above thick- ening of flour and milk, and stir the boiling milk into it, season with pepper and salt, and keep stirring over the fire until thick.