INVALID COOKERY. 151 Rice-Water. Ingredients. — 1 oz. of Carolina rice; 1 quart of water. Method.—Wash the rice well, and put it in a saucepan with the 2 pints of water ; let it simmer for three hours, then let it come gradually to the boiling-point. Strain the liquid, and when cold it will be ready for use. This is good for diarrhoea, dysentery, etc. Tapioca Blanc Mange. (American Recipe.) Ingredients.—1 scant cupful of tapioca; 1 large cupful of cold water ; 2 cupfuls of milk ; 1 cupful of sugar ; a few drops of vanilla ; pinch of salt, and the same of soda in the milk. Method.—Soak the tapioca four or five hours—overnight, if you can remember it. Scald the milk, stir in the sugar, then the soft, clear tapioca. Cook and stir fifteen minutes ; take from the fire, pour into a bowl, put in your eggbeater, and whip two minutes to get out the lumps. Flavour, and mould in cups or bowls wet with cold water. When firm, turn out, and eat with cream. It is very good, especially for sick people. Baked Sole. Ingredients.—1 small sole ; some dissolved butter ; bread-crumbs ; pepper and salt. Method.—Scrape the sole ; wipe it in a clean fish-cloth ; dip it in the dissolved butter; sprinkle with seasoned bread-crumbs ; and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. Tea. ‘ When you see the natural and almost universal craving in English sick for their tea, you cannot but feel,’ says Florence Nightingale, ‘that Nature knows what she is about. But a little tea or coffee restores them quite as much as a great deal ; and a great deal of tea, and especially of coffee, impairs the little power of digestion they have. Yet a nurse, because she sees how one or two cups of tea or coffee restore her patient, thinks three or four cups will do twice as much. This is not the case at all: it is, however, certain that there is nothing yet discovered which is a substitute to the English patient for his cup of tea.’ Tea for an Invalid. (Dr. King Chambers’s Recipe.) Pour into a small china or earth- enware teapot a cup of quite boil- ing water, empty it out; and while it is still hot and steaming, put in the tea and enough boiling water to wet it thoroughly, and set it close to the fire to steam three or four minutes. Then pour in the quantity of water required, and it is ready for use. Toast Water. Ingredients. — 1 slice of stale bread, toasted ; boiling water. Method.—Cut the bread rather thick, and brown it thoroughly, without burning it, on both sides. The moment it is done, put it into a jug, and pour the required quan- tity of boiling water over it; cover the jug close, and when cold it is ready for use. Oatmeal-water is made in the same way, the oatmeal being browned in the oven or be- fore the fire. It is useful in pre- venting sickness.