EGGS, CHEESE, ETC. 141 Fried Eggs. Ingredients.—Eggs ; olive-oil or butter. Method.—Break an egg gently into a cup, being careful not to break the yolk. Put into a frying- pan some olive-oil or butter ; set it over the fire, and, when it boils, raise the handle of the pan that the liquid may run to one side. Slip the egg carefully out of the cup into the pan, and, with a pierced ladle, throw the boiling oil or fat over the egg, which will cause the white to boil up and cover the yolk. As soon as one is cooked, take it out with the strainer, and do another in the same way, till you have enough. Take care to keep them hot. They should be a nice light brown, and may be served with a puree of tomatoes, a sauce piquante, or a good gravy, and seasoned with pepper and salt. German Omelette. Ingredients.—~ lb. of bacon; 8 eggs ; pepper and salt. Method.—Fry the bacon cut in dice ; bea t up the eggs with some pepper and salt, add them to the bacon, and fry all together. Stir till it gets thick, turn it on to a very hot dish, and serve quickly. Eggs in Gravy. Ingredients.—Gravy ; eggs ; pep- per and salt. Method.—Pour some nice gravy into a pie-dish, put it into the oven, and, when it begins to hiss, slip in enough eggs (previously broken into cups) to cover the bottom of the dish ; season to taste, and bake till the whites are set. Serve in the pie-dish. Ham and Eggs. Ingredients.—1 oz. of cooked ham; 1 oz. of fresh butter; 3 eggs ; a little pepper ; a spoonful of chopped chervil. Method.—Cut the ham in dice, and put it into a pan with the fresh butter, eggs, pepper, and chervil. Stir continually till the eggs are enough done. They should not be very stiff. Serve on toast. Macaroni Cheese. Ingredients.—6 oz. of macaroni ; boiling water or milk ; pepper and salt; 3 oz. of cheese (any dry white cheese will do); 1 oz. of butter ; bread-crumbs. Method.— Break the macaroni into small pieces ; put it into a saucepan with sufficient boiling water or milk to cover it, and let it simmer for half an hour or more until tender. When done, drain it thoroughly, put it into a well- buttered dish, strew grated cheese between each layer ; season with pepper and salt, and add a few grains of cayenne, if liked. Cover the whole with fine bread-crumbs mixed with grated cheese, and lay some lumps of butter on the top. Brown in a quick oven, or before the fire. (Eufs en Puree. Ingredients. — Some hard-boiled eggs ; the yolks of 3 raw eggs ; a little butter ; pepper and salt ; a little good gravy ; sippets of bread dipped in egg. Method.—Boil some fresh eggs hard ; let them get cold ; take out the yolks and beat them in a mor- tar with butter, pepper, salt, and the yolks of three raw eggs ; chop the whites small, and stew them a few minutes in a little good gravy without letting them boil ; pass the yolks through a colander into the dish they are to be served in.