fftsb. It is scarcely necessary to dwell upon the desirability of fish as an edible. It is not quite so satisfying as animal food, because it is so easy of digestion, but it is quite as nutritious, and it is much more economical. Dr. Davy draws attention to the fact that populations subsisting on fish are specially strong, healthy, and prolific. ‘In no other class than in that of fishers do we see larger families, handsomer women, or more robust or active men.’ Care, however, must be taken to eat fish that is in season ; when out of season, it is very unwhole- some. It is best when it is cheapest—i.e., when it is in season, and the supply is largest. A fish is fresh when the eyes are bright, when the gills are red, and when the flesh is thick and firm. If, when you press your fingers on the flesh, the impression remains, the fish is stale and to be avoided. Staleness can be detected also by the smell emitted by the fish. Chloride of soda will impart a species of freshness, but it is not to be recom- mended. As a general rule, medium-sized fish are better than those that are large or small. Turbot is best when thick and full-fleshed, the under side being of a pale cream or yellow colour. Salmon and codfish should have a small head, thick shoulders, and a small tail. The flesh of codfish should be white and clear before it is boiled, and whiter and clearer afterwards. Herrings, mackerel, and whitings must be cooked newly caught, or they are not agreeable eating. Eels should be alive when purchased ; they can be killed by piercing the spinal marrow, close to the back of the skull, with a sharp-pointed knife or skewer. Lobsters, prawns, and shrimps should be very stiff after boiling. Oysters are fresh according to the tenacity with which the shells hold together ; if the shells are far open, the fish should be rejected. It is essential that fish should be cleaned very carefully and thoroughly. All offensive matter in it should be entirely removed. It should be handled lightly; and, though it should be well washed, it should not be left longer in the water than necessary, or it will lose its flavour. Fish can be kept best by emptying and cleaning it as soon as bought, wiping it quite dry, and hanging it up by the head on hooks in the ceiling of a cool larder. If there is any danger of flies, hang it up in a wire safe, where there is a strong draught. In boiling, take care that