SOUPS. 21 into the pan with the strained soup, boil for a few minutes, and serve. Oyster Soup. Ingredients.—1 quart of oysters; 2 quarts of stock (fish or meat); 9 eggs; some mace and cayenne. Method.—Take away from the oysters, which ought to be fresh and juicy, the hard part and beards, and add to these the yolks of six eggs, previously hard boiled. Pound together in a mortar, and add to the stock. Let the whole simmer for half an hour, and then strain into another stewpan, in which the oysters, well washed, have been placed. Season with the mace and cayenne, and let the oysters simmer for eight minutes ; after which, the yolks of three eggs, well beaten, may be stirred into the soup, and gradually mixed with the whole—the stewpan being drawn aside, and the soup con- stantly stirred, to prevent the eggs curdling. When the soup is smooth and thick, serve in a tureen, still stirring. Lemon, mustard and vinegar, tarragon or garlic may be used as flavouring, according to taste. Green Pea Soup. Ingredients.—1 peck of fresh green peas ; a knuckle of veal ; a small piece of ham; 2 carrots; 1 turnip; 1 head of celery; heart of lettuce; 1 sprig of mint; Hump of sugar, the size of a walnut ; pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Boil the peas until tender, then put the water in which they have been boiled into a clean saucepan, add the veal and ham, and the carrots and turnip cut into thin slices, and let the whole simmer gently for two hours; strain and season it; pulp the peas (all except a pint, which must be added to the soup just before dish- ing) through a coarse sieve, and put the pulp into the soup. Cut some slices of bread into dice, and fry them in fresh butter; after which, fry the lettuce, cut in thin slices, place the bread and lettuce in the tureen, and pour the soup (having first added the pint of peas), very hot, over them. Green Pea Soup (without Meat). Ingredients.—3 quarts of water; 1 quart of full-grown peas, f pint of young peas ; 4 oz. of butter; 4 small cucumbers ; 4 lettuces ; from 1 to 4 onions; some sprigs of parsley; a few sprigs of mint ; some salt, some white pepper oi cayenne. Method. — Boil the full-grown peas (which, like the others, must be freshly gathered, if the soup is to be acceptable) in the 3 quarts of water, until they are tender. Drain and pound them in a mortar, and mix with them, gradually, 5 pints of the liquor in which they have been boiled. Put them on the fire again ; stir gently for a quarter of an hour ; and then pass through a hair-sieve or crush in a mortar. Meanwhile, the cucum- bers pared and sliced, the lettuces sliced small, the onions cut thin, the parsley and the mint chopped, should have been placed with the butter in another saucepan, and llowed to simmer over a gentle ^ e for nearly an hour, stirred the while, with a sprinkling-in of salt and pepper. The butter should then be drained from them, and they should be added to the strained stock, the whole being kept boiling