87 VEGETABLES. Method.—Put the milk and soda into a basin, which place in a sauce- pan of boiling water on the fire. As soon as the milk becomes hot, stir into it the butter (cut into small pieces and rubbed in flour) and the seasoning ; add the pota- toes, previously cut in thin slices ; cover the basin closely, and stew for ten or fifteen minutes. The white of an egg, whisked to a froth and stirred into the stew just before dishing, is an improvement. This dish is best prepared in the double-saucepan, if you have one. (See ‘ List of Utensils.’) To Boil Rice for Curry (1), Throw the rice, having first well washed it, into boiling water; there must be enough quite to cover it. Let it boil exactly sixteen minutes, but not too fast. When done suffi- ciently, and while still boiling, dash some cold water into the pot, and immediately remove it from the fire; throw the rice into a colander to drain ; cover it with a napkin, and when all the water has com- pletely drained from it, serve. N.B. The cold water has the effect of separating the grains of rice, but can be dispensed with by tossing the rice with a fork. Rice for Curry (2). Ingredients.—2 quarts of vrater; 1 tablespoonful of sugar; ■§ lb. of rice. Method.—Boil the water with the salt; then add the rice, well washed. Boil for about ten minutes till the grains become rather soft. Drain into a colander. Slightly grease the pot with butter, and put the rice back into it. Let it swell slowly for twenty minutes, either near the fire or in a slow oven. Each grain will then swell and be well separated, when it is ready to serve. Spinach. Pick the spinach carefully from the stalks, taking care that there are no weeds amongst it; then wash it thoroughly in several waters to free it from every par- ticle of grit. Take it out of the last water without draining it, and put it into a saucepan with a small spoonful of salt; keep shaking it, and pressing it down with a wooden spoon for about a quarter of an hour, or longer, until tender. Then drain off all the moisture, chop quickly, and serve immediately, with fried sippets of toast round the dish. If preferred, the spinach, after being drained, can be put into a stewpan with a little butter, milk, or cream, or as much rich gravy as will moisten it well; stew, ani stir over the fire until dry ; then press quickly into little shapes or a mould, turn out on a dish, and serve with, or without, eggs and toast. To Boil Brussels Sprouts. Ingredients.—To every 2 quarts of water allow 1 tablespoonful of salt; a little carbonate of soda (about a salt-spoonful; ; butter ; pepper. Method.—Cut off all decayed leaves from the sprouts ; wash them thoroughly ; allow them to lie in salt and water for an hour ; then throw them into a saucepan of boiling water, containing the soda and salt, and let them boil quickly, uncovered, for fifteen or twenty minutes, till they are ten- der. Drain them in a colander; put them back into the saucepan with a little butter, pepper, and salt; shake them gently over the