MEATS. 56 away; cut the tripe into neat pieces, put it into a saucepan with sufficient milk and water to cover it, and stew it gently for two hours. Have ready the onion sauce nicely pre- pared, arrange the tripe neatly on a dish, and pour the sauce over it. Stewed Breast of Lamb. Ingredients.— 1 breast of lamb ; pepper and salt; white stock ; 1 glass of sherry ; butter and flour. Method.—Remove the skin from the lamb, cut it into small pieces, and season wTith pepper and salt. Put the meat into a stewpan, pour in sufficient stock to cover it, and stew very slowly for about two hours, until perfectly tender. Just before serving, thicken the gravy with a little butter and flour ; add the sherry, boil one minute, then pour over the lamb. Serve with green peas, nicely boiled. Lamb Chops. Ingredients. — Chops from the loin about f inch thick; pepper and salt; mashed potatoes. Method.—Broil the chops for about ten or fifteen minutes over a clear fire. While cooking, sprinkle them with pepper and salt. Have ready a mound of nicely mashed potatoes on a hot dish, arrange the chops round it, and serve. Lamb Cutlets. Ingredients.—Cutlets from the best end of a neck of lamb ; 1 or 2 eggs ; some finely grated bread- crumbs ; pepper and salt; butter ; green peas, or French beans. Method,—Trim the cutlets neatly, cutting oft the greater portion of the fat, and chop off the thick part! of the bone; flatten with a knife, and form into a nice shape. Dip the cutlets first into egg, then into bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt; afterwards dip them separately into clarified butter ; sprinkle more crumbs over them, and fry for about ten minutes, turning occasionally. Pile the peas or beans (nicely boiled) in the cen- tre of a hot dish ; drain the cutlets before the fire, and arrange them neatly round the vegetables. In- stead of being fried the cutlets may be broiled, if preferred. Garnish with slices of lemon. Lamb’s Fry. Ingredients.—1 lb. of lamb’s fry; 1 egg ; finely grated bread-crumbs; a little minced parsley; pepper and salt; fried parsley. Method.—Boil the lamb’s fry for about fifteen minutes, then drain, and dry it well ; dip it into the egg, and then into the bread-crumbs, seasoned with minced parsley and plenty of pepper and salt. Fry for about five minutes, until it is a nice colour on both sides. Serve on a hot folded napkin, and gar- nish with fried parsley. Lamb Haricot. Ingredients.—2 lb. of small chops from the neck; butter; flour; pepper; 1 turnip ; 2 carrots; some green peas ; salt; a little ketchup. Method.—Melt some butter in a stewpan ; trim the chops neatly, flour and pepper them, and fry them a light brown in the butter ; cover with hot water, and stew very gently for two and a half or three hours. Parboil the turnips and carrots, cut them into small pieces, and add them to the meat (with the peas) one hour before serving ; season with ketchup and salt. The gravy should just cover the vege- tables and no more; it may be