Soups, .On the attractions and virtues of soups in general it is scarcely necessary to descant. A well-ordered dinner is impossible without them, and the prudent housewife puts them forward as often as cir- cumstances demand or allow. The light sorts are an excellent prepara- tion for more solid fare ; the more substantial kinds are economical in the sense of ‘ breaking the back ’ of appetite. The former are of especial service to invalids, not only as affording nutriment, but because they have the effect of drawing the blood away from the head, in order to assist the stomach to perform its functions. Soups may be divided broadly into two classes—brown and white ; the basis of the first being mainly beef, and of the second mainly veal. Yet, in truth, the basis of soup—i.e. ‘ stock ’—may be made up of very varied materials. The liquor in which meat has been boiled, the bones taken from any joint or piece of poultry, meat or poultry ‘ trimmings,’ sheep’s head, calf’s head, ox-cheek, and so on—all of these supply admirable matter for the stock-pot. The preparation of the stock is, of course, half the battle. Ordinarily a quart of water goes to every pound of meat (without bone) ; and the water in which the meat is placed, to begin with, must be cold and soft. The meat should be as fresh and as lean as possible ; it should simmer slowly (never boil), in order that the goodness may be fully extracted ; and the liquor should be skimmed carefully, to remove the albumen that rises to the surface. It should not be allowed ever to get cool. When making stock from bones, the cook should cause her material to boil rapid)y, as by that means the gelatine in it is most thoroughly brought out. The gelatine, of course, is the property which it is desired to extract, and it could not be got at by mere simmering. After having been once boiled, the bones can be broken up, and further gelatine obtained by boiling. Meat for stock should be cut up into small pieces ; vegetables should be sliced or grated. The condiments should not be added till just before the process of boiling or simmering is completed, as they have the effect of hardening the meat, etc., with which they come in contact The stock-jar should be large in the mouth and glazed on the inside. It should he kept, too, when full, in a cool place. Before being used again, it should be cleaned with great thoroughness, the interior being scalded and afterwaids washed with soda and water.