SOUPS. 18 turnips ; 7 young carrots ; 1 cab- bage ; 6 small leeks ; f peck of green peas (or half that quantity of peas and half of kidney beans) ; 1 teaspoonful of salt, and a little black pepper. Method.—Place the mutton in a large pot, with the meat side down- wards ; add the water, and, when it boils, put in the lamb, the turnips, the leeks (minced fine), and 5 of the carrots whole, the other 2 being grated. Put in, also, the heart of the cabbage, tied round with fine twine, and the outside tender leaves, minced fine; boil for an hour or an hour and a quarter, according to the weight of the lamb, adding to the soup—about twenty or twenty-five minutes be- fore it is ready for dishing—the peas (or peas and beans). If beans are used, take only the green part in the inside of each bean. Add, finally, the salt and pepper.—Take care that the pot used is large enough to hold all the ingredients, with a margin to prevent the water boiling over. The heart of the cabbage is intended to be eaten with the lamb, which should be boiled slowly and taken out when sufficiently cooked. This soup, it may be added, can only be made in perfection when the vegetables are young and sweet. Hotch Potch is also made with a lamb’s head and pluck, the liver and kernels being left for frying. The whole should be washed very clean. The head, having been split open, should be tied together with a small piece of twine, to prevent the brains from getting into the soup. Moreover, unless the scrag- end of mutton is used with the head, a pint less water must be put in, or the soup will be poor. Kidney Soup. (1). Ingredients.—3 lb. of the shin of beef, or any bones and trimmings of dressed meat; 1 turnip ; 2 car- rots ; 1 head of celery; 2 beef kidneys ; browned flour ; butter ; a little ketchup and Worcestershire sauce ; pepper and salt. Method.—Cut up the meat and vegetables ; put them into the soup-pot with about 3 quarts of water ; boil till the meat is in rags, then strain. This should be done the day before the stock is required. To prepare the soup next day, wash, dry, and slice the kidneys ; brown them nicely in butter, cut them into dice, and put them into the stock (previously heated). Make a thickening of the flour and remaining ingredients ; pour it into the pan in which the kidneys were fried ; let it come to the boil, stir- ring the while ; then add to the soup. Boil the whole three hours, and serve. Kidney Soup (2). Ingredients. — Liquor from a boiled leg of mutton ; 1 bullock’s kidney ; 3 sticks of celery ; 3 or 4 turnips ; 3 or 4 carrots ; bunch of sweet herbs (tied together); pepper and salt; 1 spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Method.—Place the kidney in the liquor, put it on the fire, and, when it is half done, take it out and cut it into dice. Cut the celery, tur- nips, and carrots into small pieces, and add them, with the herbs, to the kidney, seasoning to taste. Boil slowly for five or six hours, adding meanwhile the ketchup. When done, take out the herbs, and serve the vegetables in the soup, which will be all the better if made the day before it is wanted.