162 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. Coloured articles, print dresses, etc., should be washed in hard water, and rinsed in salt and water, to prevent the colours running. To Make Cold Water Starch. Allow two tablespoonfuls of starch to one breakfast-cupful of water. Put the starch in a basin and mix it to a smooth paste with a little of the water, then add the remainder, and stir well. In another basin, mix with a pint of cold water 1£ teaspoonful of powdered borax, dissolved. Dip the collars, two or three at a time, first into the starch, then into the borax. Put them through a wring- ing machine, place them neatly one on the top of the other on a clean cloth, and iron at once. Wine Stains on Linen. Port-wine stains can be removed by at once pouring on them a little sherry ; and salt applied imme- diately is good for stains from all kinds of wine. The stain should be held in milk as it boils on the fire, and should be subsequently washed out in water. All but very obstinate stains yield to boiling milk, especially if applied before they become dry, and consequently set. Claret stains can often be removed by dipping them, while still damp, in boiling water, or by pouring boiling water over them several times, and rubbing with a clean brush. Ink stains should be washed in butter-milk ; or if they have had time to dry, salts of lemon should be applied. Fill a basin with boiling water, lay the stained article over it, wet the part affected, and rub the salt thoroughly in until the spot disappears. Be careful to wash well out afterwards. Chloride of lime bleaching liquid will re- move all stains from table-linen and calico. If used with great care, and not too often, it will do no harm, and be found very useful. It is prepared as follows : Pour boiling water on chloride of lime in proportion of 1 gallon to ^ lb.; bottle it, cork it tightly, and in using the liquid be careful not to stir it. To Wash Dishes, etc. Fill two basins or tubs with hot water. Let the water in one of them be just hot enough to bear the hand in ; the other should be nearly boiling. Place a little ex- tract of soap in the former, and wash the dishes first in that. Then rinse them in the other water. Put them on a tray to drain, and then dry them with a perfectly clean towel. If servants could but be induced to wash dishes in this way, mistresses would no longer have to complain of the sticky and smeary condition in which dishes are too often sent up te table. Glasses should be washed in cold water, wiped first with a glass- towel, and afterwards polished with a clean dry cloth. To Clean Iron and Enamelled Saucepans. Wash them thoroughly, inside and out, in hot soda and water, and if, as is usually the case, any hard substance adheres to the in- terior, scrub the latter with a brush made specially for the purpose. This brush should have a long handle, and should be fitted at the end and up one side with a number of short hard-bristles. After the brush has been used, rinse the pan well in clean water, and dry it thoroughly. The brush itself should be rinsed in hot soda and