£ toothsome dishes:—ADDITIONAL RECIPES, ETC. Cadbury’s Cocoa, On the testimony of the Lancet, ‘ represents the standard of highest purity. It is entirely free from all foreign substances, such as Kala, Malt, Hops, etc., nor * is Alkali used to darken the colour (and so deceive the eye). It is very easily digested ; it imparts new life and vigour to those of delicate constitution, and can be taken safely and beneficially by the robust and delicate alike. It is “ a Perfect Food.55 ’ Robinson’s Patent Groats. Gruel. — Take of Robinson’s Patent Groats one tablespoonful, mix with a wineglassful of cold water, gradually added into a smooth paste ; pour this into a stewpan containing nearly a pint of boiling water or milk, stir the gruel on the fire (while it boils) for ten minutes ; pour it into a basin, add a pinch of salt or a little butter, or, if more agreeable, some sugar, and a small quantity of spirits. When for an invalid butter had best be omitted. Robinson’s Patent Barley. Barley Water for Invalids.— Take of Robinson’s Patent Barley an ounce, mix with a wineglassful of cold water into a smooth paste ; pour this into a stewpan contain- ing a quart of: boiling water, stir this over the fire while boiling for five minutes ; then flavour with a small bit of lemon-peel or cinna- mon, and sweeten to taste. When the Patent Barley is used to make a summer beverage, only half an ounce must be taken. Kingsford’s Oswego Cornflour. There are many cornflours, but none more delicately prepared than Kingsford’s Oswego, which is made from the finest parts of Indian corn or maize, and is guar- anteed to be perfectly pure. Many excellent dishes, both for the healthy person as well as for the invalid, having the Oswego Corn- flour for their chief ingredient, can be made, besides a nourishing gravy jelly thatis most appetizing. Kingsford’s Oswego should always be asked for, as it is the original of all cornflours, goes farthest, and gives greatest satisfaction ; while for custards, puddings, blanc-manges, ice creams, and other sweet dishes it is unsur- passed. Recipe. — The following is a good recipe for a nursery pudding: Three tablespoonfuls of Osweeo Cornflour to one quart of milk. Dissolve the flour in some of the milk, and mix with it two or three well-beaten eggs and a little salt. Heat the remainder of the milk till nearly boiling, then add the mixture and boil for four minutes, stirring briskly. Swinborne’s Isinglass. When jelly is required for in- valids get a packet of Swinborne’s Isinglass. This makes the best of jellies, and is most nutritious. Cream Blanc-mange. — 1 oz. packet of Swinborne’s Isinglass or Gelatine, 6 ozs. loaf sugar, 2 clean young laurel leaves ; 1 wineglass brandy, 1 pint new milk, and 1 pint cream or 2 pints milk. Soak the packet of isinglass or gelatine in a pint of new milk; add a pint of cream with two laurel leaves, and five or six ounces of loaf sugar, and boil for five minutes ; strain through muslin, stir occasionally till nearly cold, add a little brandy, and pour into moulds. This makes a very rich