FISH. S3 the kettle used is scrupulously clean. A little salt and vinegar placed in the water tends to make the fish firmer, and therefore more appetizing. Fish should always be boiled gently. In frying, use a deeper stewpan than has hitherto been customary ; by so doing you are enabled to cover the fish with fat, which is a very important matter. If the fish cannot be sent to table at once, place it on a fish-plate, put the plate into a large and very hot dish, and set it across the fish-kettle, dip a clean cloth in the boiling water, and spread it over the fish, and cover the whole with a tin cover. When the fish is wanted, put it into the kettle again for an instant, and then drain and serve immediately. Stewed Brill. Ingredients.—A little white wine; 1 onion; 1 bay-leaf; thyme; parsley; lb oz. of fresh butter ; juice of 1 lemon ; the yolks of 2 eggs ; pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Clean the brill well, lay it in a buttered enamel stew- pan, moisten it with wine, then add the onion sliced thinly, the bay-leaf, thyme, parsley, and season- ing. Let the fish simmer gently over a slow fire until tender, then drain it and place it on a hot dish ; strain the liquor, stir into it the yolks of the 2 eggs, the butter, and the lemon-juice; heat tho- roughly, but do not allow it to boil; pour over the fish, and serve. Fried Cod. Ingredients.—Middle or tail of a codfish; salt; white pepper (or cay- enne) ; flour ; some crisped parsley. Method.—Cut the fish into slices of an inch thick ; season with salt and pepper, flour them well, and fry equally brown on both sides. They should take from eight to ten minutes. Drain them on a sieve before the fire, and serve on a heated napkin, with border of parsley. Another way is to dip the slices first into beaten eggs and afterwards into fine crumbs seasoned with salt and pepper, before frying them. Send to table with melted butter and anchovy sauce. Or dip them, after frying, in a good curried gravy, and keep them by the fire a few minutes before serving. Salt Cod Pudding. (American Recipe.) Ingredients.—1 lb. of salt cod ; 1 cupful of drawn butter; pepper; 2 tablespoonfuls of grated cheese ; bread-crumbs. Method.—Mince the cod finely, taking care that all the bones and skin have been removed. Heat the cupful of drawn butter, stir the fish into it, and add the grated cheese, and pepper to taste. Pour this into a well-buttered pudding-dish, cover with fine bread-crumbs, and set in the oven until delicately browned. Any firm white fish, such as cooked halibut, haddock, etc., is very good prepared in this way. Cod-Sounds (Boiled). Ingredients. — 6 cod-sounds; for sauce, gravy, pepper, salt, flour, 1 oz. butter, mustard. Method.—Clean the sounds tho- roughly in boiling water, and rub them over with salt. Put them to boil for about half an hour in equal quantities of milk and water. Serve with a gravy made of above ingredients, as follows : Put into a basin 1 tablespoonful of flour, and mix it smoothly with a little