MEATS. 46 creamy in appearance. The suet should also be white. Heifer-beef is closer grained than ox-beef, and the fat is whiter. Bull-beef, which is coarse and dark, should be avoided. Veal.—This should be fresh killed (the calf being not being more than eight or ten weeks old). The larger it is the cheaper it should be, as, of course, it is most delicate when smallest. The lean should be white, close-grained, smooth, and juicy ; the fat, white and firm. If the flesh is clammy, and has a musty smell, it is stale and uneatable. Mutton.—The best mutton is that which is derived from a sheep four or five years old, and, in general, it may be said that mutton is most acceptable when oldest. It should be dark in colour, close in grain, and juicy; the fat white and plentiful. It should be tender, and soft to the touch. Lamb.—This should be small in size, pale in colour, firm, and smooth ; the fat should be white. Pork.—Care should be taken in the choice of pork, which, when bad, is very injurious. Be careful where you buy it. Endeavour to get it where you know that the animal has been properly fed. The best pork is white and close-grained, and has not much fat. The fat should be firm and solid, the rind thin and smooth. If the flesh is clammy, it is not good ; and if the fat has kernels in it, it is equally to be avoided. Pork should not be hung long. IIOW TO COOK MEAT. To know how to cook meat is at least as important as to know how to choose it ; for obviously, however excellent the material, that excel- lence is of no service if the most is not made of it in the cooking. Equally true is it that bad cooking will spoil the best possible material. A sine qua non is the thorough preparation of the meat. It must be scraped and washed with the minutest care ; everything objectionable being removed, and every part being adequately cleansed. This is the first duty of the cook. The second is to be careful that the cooking utensils are fit for the reception of the meat ; that they are perfectly clean; and in every respect ready for use. Thirdly, there is the vitally important question of the fire, which ought to be in the proper con- dition for cooking before that operation is begun. It is best to make it up at least an hour before you wish to use it. Nothing is worse for meat than beginning to cook it at a fire which does not give out suffi- cient heat for the purpose. Roasting.—The joint having been fixed to the jack, should be placed close to the fire, and kept there for about ten minutes, during which time the albumen and other juices in the meat are brought out, and form a sort of coating all over the surface of the joint. This coat- ing preserves at once the nutritive properties and aromatic flavour of the meat. At the end of the ten minutes, the joint should be with- drawn a little from the fire, and from that point till it is done it should be basted thoroughly at short intervals. By this means the meat is