TO USE UP GOLD MEAT, ETC. 76 on a liot dish. Next stir into the beaten yolks the lemon-juice or vinegar ; take the sauce oft the fire; let it stand for a minute or two ; add the egg; stir gently; pour over the meat, and serve. Irish Stew; Ingredients. —Potatoes; remains of cooked beef or mutton; 1 or 2 onions ; pepper ; salt; water. Method.—Proceed according to directions for Irish Stew under ‘Meat’ (which see). Simmer gently till the potatoes are quite soft. Slices of sausage, ham, tongue, etc., can be put in with the meat, and helps to make the dish tasty. The onions may be omitted. Miroton de Bosuf. Ingredients.—2 onions; a little butter ; 2 tablespoonfuls of flour ; ^ pint of stock ; 1 teaspoonful of white wine; a little salt and pepper; half a bay-leaf; some thin slices of cold beef ; a few drops of vinegar. Method.—Melt a little butter in a stewpan, add the onions, chopped fine, shake over the fire for a few minutes, then dredge in the flour ; next add the stock, the white wine, a little salt, half a bay-leaf, and a sprinkle of pepper, and boil for ten minutes. Have ready the beef cut in thin slices, put them into the stewpan, and simmer gently for twenty minutes ; take out the bay- leaf, pour in a few drops of vinegar, and serve. Beef Roll. Ingredients.—1^ lb. cooked beef ; \ lb. cooked ham ; \ lb. bread- crumbs (finely grated) ; 1 small onion (parboiled) ; 1 cupful of gravy; 1 egg ; pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Mince the meat and ham very finely, taking care that there are no hard or sinewy pieces amongst the former. Add the bread- crumbs, the onion chopped very small, the gravy, and the seasoning. Bind together with the egg, make into a long roll, and either bake in a moderate oven for an hour or fry in good beef-dripping. Scalloped Beef. (American Recipe.) Ingredients.—1 cupful of minced beef,boiled or roast, corned or fresh; ^ cupful of soup or gravy ; 1 cup- ful of cold mashed potatoes ; 1 tablespoonful of butter ; £ cupful of milk ; 1 beaten egg ; J teaspoon- ful made mustard ; pepper and salt; handful of fine crumbs. Method.—Put the mashed pota- toes, hot, into a bowl, and whip light and powdery with a fork. Beat in gradually the butter, the milk, and finally, with your egg-beater, the whipped egg. Salt to taste, and whip to a smooth cream. Season the minced meat highly, moisten with gravy, work in the mustard, and put into a greased pie-dish when ready. Spread the prepared po- tato over all smoothly, sift fine crumbs on the surface, and set in a quick oven until nicely browned. Shepherd’s Pie. Ingredients.—Remains of cold beef or mutton ; 1 small onion (if liked) ; a little gravy ; 1 teaspoon- ful of mushroom ketchup ; pepper and salt to taste; mashed potatoes. Method.—Cut the meat into very small pieces, and put it, and the onion, minced very finely, into a deep pie-dish; add the seasoning, ketchup, and gravy, then fill the dish high up with mashed potatoes, which must be nicely smoothed on