MEATS,. 61 and three - quarters to cook. When done, remove the rind and sprinkle with raspings. To Fry Bacon. Remove the rind from the bacon, cut in thin slices, place them in a cold frying-pan, and cook slowly in their own fat over a gentle fire. Turn two or three times, brown very slightly, and serve on a hot dish. To toast bacon, cut it in thin slices and place it on a toaster, or in a Dutch oven before the fire. Serve alone, or with fried eggs, and sippets of bread fried in the bacon fat. Brawn. Ingredients.—Pig's head weigh- ing 8 lb., 2 lb. of lean beef ; 3 tablespoonfuls of salt; 2^ teaspoon- fuls of pepper; 8 cloves; cayenne to taste. Method.—Clean the head care- fully, and put it into a saucepan with the beef, and enough water to cover both ; when almost boil- ing, skim the liquor. Let the meat then boil for three hours, when the bones should easily be taken out. When this has been done, set a dish before the fire, set the meat on it, and chop finely, and as fast as possible. Stir into this the mixed seasoning of salt, pepper, cayenne, and pounded cloves, and put the whole into a brawn tin, or mould, pressed with weights. Let it stand for several hours; when cold, dip the tin into boiling water for three minutes, and the brawn is ready for use. To Boil Ham. Soak the ham in cold water from twelve to twenty hours, accord- ing to the length of time it has been cured. Scrape it well, and put it into a saucepan with plenty of lukewarm water. Bring it gra- dually to the boil, and as the scum rises carefully remove it. Keep it very gently simmering until tender, and be careful that it does not stop boiling, nor boil too quickly. Allow twenty-five minutes to the pound and twenty-five minutes over. When done, let the ham remain in the liquor until nearly cold, then strip off the rind, cover with raspings, place a paper frill round the knuckle, and garnish with parsley. Devonshire Cured Ham. Ingredients.—10 lb. ham ; H oz. salt prunella ; 1^ oz. saltpetre ; 12 oz. salt. For the pickle : 2 gal. of water ; 3^ lb. of salt ; lb. of coarse sugar ; 2 lb. of bay salt. Method.—Pound well together the ingredients first named, and rub into the meat. Put it then into a large basin, rubbing it and turning it each day for two days. It should then be placed to pickle in the following manner : Make the pickle of the ingredients named ; turn it into a saucepan, put it over the fire, and while com- ing to the boil stir frequently; then skim off all scum, boil for quarter of an hour, and pour over the meat. Rub and turn the meat every day for a fortnight, and then it may be taken out, drained for an hour, and covered with sawdust. It must next be smoked for a fort- night, and will then be fit for use. The pickle, if boiled up and skimmed again, may be made use- ful for tongues, etc. It should have 1|- lb. of salt and 1^ lb. of treacle added before use, and should be kept well corked up.