148 INVALID COOKERY. Method.—Break a nice fresh egg into a cup, and beat it well up along with the sugar. Add gradu- ally the boiling milk, beating with a fork all the time. This is a most strengthening and refreshing drink for anyone who feels weak or tired. Egg Flip. (Very nourishing.) Ingredients.—1 egg ; 1 breakfast- cupful of milk. Method.—Beat up the white of a nice fresh egg in a breakfast-cup for about five minutes ; then fill up the cup with milk, and pour into a tumbler. A teaspoonful of sherry or brandy can be added if required. Egg Pudding. Ingredients.—2 eggs ; rather less than £ pint of mil£; a little sugar and nutmeg Method.—Beat up the eggs well, and add them to the other ingre- dients. Put the pudding in a basin, and boil for twenty minutes. The water must be boiling when the pudding is put in. Brink for a Fever. Ingredients.—3 oz. of currants; 2 oz. of raisins, carefully stoned ; 11 oz. of tamarinds ; 3 pints of water ; a little lemon peel. Method. — Boil the currants, raisins, and tamarinds in the 3 pints of water till it is reduced to a quart ; strain it, add a piece of lemon-peel, and let it stand an hour, when it will be fit for use. Furmity. Ingredients.—Wheat ; 2 quarts of new milk; the yolks of 3 eggs ; a little nutmeg ; sugar to taste. Method.—Boil the wheat till it comes to a jelly, and to a quart of this add by degrees the 2 quarts of new milk. Stir and boil till well mixed ; then add the well- beaten yolks of the eggs, a little nutmeg, and sugar to taste; stir the whole well over the fire, pour into deep dishes, and eat either hot or cold. Dressed Game. Ingredients.—1 fresh partridge; a few tablespoonfuls of water or light stock, and some salt. Method.—Take the breast of the partridge; remove the skin (with any fibres or sinews), and mince it very fine. Put it into a saucepan with the water, or stock, and the salt. Stir, and simmer gently for half an honr. Then serve hot. Hare can be done in the same way, and will be found very easy of digestion. GrueL Ingredients.—1 oz. of Itobinson’s patent groats; 1 pint of water; a little salt. Method.—Put the groats into a very clean saucepan (a double sauce- pan is best if you have one); add the above proportion of water, and boil gently for four hours or more, stirring occasionally. A little boil- ing water may be added from time to time, so as to keep the original quantity. When done, strain through a hair-sieve, being careful not to allow any of the grain to get into the gruel. Put the gruel into a clean pan, stir it well until it boils, then season with salt or sugar. A little wine or brandy may be added, if desired.