27 SA UCES. into a saucepan (over a gentle fire) along with the milk and seasoning, and keep stirring the whole one way till it boils; then add the whites and yolks of the eggs, chopped separately, and serve very hot. A little lemon-juice can be added, if liked. Egg Sauce (2). Ingredients.—The yolks of 2 eggs, beaten ; 2 slices of lemon ; 1 oz. of butter ; 1 dessert-spoonful of vinegar ; a little grated nutmeg. Method.—Put all the above in- gredients into a saucepan, which place on a rather slow fire. Stir the whole till it is very hot, but do not let it boil. Serve with any kind of fish. Fennel Sauce. Ingredients.—A small handful of fennel ; £ pint of melted butter ; a little salt. Method.—Strip the fennel from the stems, wash it very clean, and boil it quickly in salt and water until tender, which should be in about ten minutes ; press the water well out of it, mince it fine, and mix it gradually with the hot melted butter. German Pudding Sauce. Ingredients.—£ pint of white wine ; a little lemon-peel and sugar ; the yolks of 7 eggs. Method.—Just bring to a boil the \ pint of white wine, with a little lemon-peel and sugar in it; beat up well the yolks of the eggs, and pour the hot wine over them ; whisk it to a froth, and serve with almost any boiled pudding. Glaze. Ingredients.—Some strong gravy or any kind of rich stock. Method.— Boil down, over a quick fire, some strong gravy or stock until it is the thickness of cream, and coats the spoon. The greatest care must be taken that it does not burn. When ready, pour it into a jar. When wanted for use, it can be dissolved by placing the jar in boiling water. This is a good glaze for ham, tongues, etc.; and it can also be used for enrich- ing soups and gravies. Gravy for Hashes, Stews, etc. Ingredients.—Some gravy beef, or bones and scraps of any cooked meat ; water ; 1 small onion ; a piece of carrot, turnip, and celery ; a little thyme and marjoram, or other sweet herbs ; a little ketchup, port or sherry wine ; pepper and salt. Method.—If made with gravy beef, cut the beef into small pieces and put them into a stewpan along with the vegetables, and about 2 pints of water. Simmer gently for three or four hours, then strain. Thicken with flour, if necessary ; season with pepper and salt, and add a little ketchup, or port or sherry wine, according to taste. If made with bones and cuttings from cooked meat, put the bones, etc., with the carrot, turnip, celery, and herbs, into a stewpan, with sufficient water to cover them. Stew gently for about two hours, then add the onion, previously sliced and fried in butter, and boil for twenty minutes. Strain ; stir in a little ketchup and a piece of butter rolled in flour; boil one minute, and it will be ready for use. Horseradish Sauce. Ingredients.—1 stalk of horse- radish ; to each tablespoonful of horseradish allow 1 teaspoonful of