Sauces. Ofrtain things are absolutely essential to the making of good sauces. To be gin with, the fire should be a bright one, but not ‘ fierce.’ Secondly, the saucepan used should be scrupulously and immaculately clean. Thirdly, the greatest care should be taken in measuring out the quantities of the ingredients. Fourthly, equal care should be shown in the stirring and mixing of the materials, which is best done, by the way, by means of a wooden spoon. Fifthly, sauces should be cooked thoroughly : it is not sufficient merely to make them thick ; they should be boiled for a minute or two at least. If these directions are not attended to, the sauce will be lumpy and altogether unacceptable ; and unless this sort of thing is perfectly well done, it is better to leave it alone, as nothing is more repelling than an unappetizing sauce. Appetizing Sauce. Ingredients.—1 large spoonful of mustard ; 1 tablespoonful of sugar ; 2 tablespoonfuls of Harvey sauce ; 1 teaspoonful of shalot, elder, and chili vinegars ; 1 tablespoonful of claret or port wine. Method.—Put the whole in a silver dish over a lamp. Put in your slices of meat of any kind, or hot or cold game ; let it cook till very hot. This is excellent, and will revive and stimulate the most jaded appetite. French mustard may be added, or other vinegars, or the proportion of each varied to taste. Apple Sauce. Ingredients.—6 or 8 apples ; a little butter ; brown sugar to taste. Method.—Pare, core, and slice the apples and put them into a saucepan with two or three spoon- fuls of water ; boil them till tender, then beat them to a pulp, previously adding a little butter and sugar. Bread Sauce. Ingredients.—The crumb of a French roll ; 1 onion ; £ pint of cream ; 1 oz. of butter ; 12 pepper- corns ; pepper and salt. Method.—Boil the crumb of the French roll and the onion, whole, in the cream, then add the butter and peppercorns. When done, take out the onion, beat up the sauce, and season with salt and pepper. Another Bread Sauce. Ingredients.—| an onion ; £ pint of milk ; 6 oz. of stale bread ; a little pounded mace ; cayenne and salt to taste ; ^ oz. of butter. Method.—Peel and halve the onion, and let it simmer in the milk until perfectly tender. Grate the bread and strain the milk over