ADVERTISEMENTS. London: John Hogg, 13, Paternoster Bow, E.C. ISeur Books. Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Small crown 8vo., 216 pp., cloth, price 2s. 6d. THE HANDBOOK OF SOLO WHIST: By A. S. Wilks. Containing a General Explanation of its Methods, Principles, and Practice, with Illustrative Hands, the Innovation in the Play of the Three-handed Game, whereby the Proposal and Acceptance Call is embodied, and the New Standard Code of Laws adopted by the leading Sporting Clubs. IgiP3 Only here is the New Standard Code of Laws to be found. CONTENTS. Introduction. The Game. The Laws. Propositions and Acceptances. The Solo. The Misere. The Abondance. The Misere Ouverte. The Abondance Declaree. Illustrative Hands. Technical Terms. Dummy Solo. Note.—This New Work incorporates the gist of “ How to Play Solo Whist,” by C. F. Pardon and A. S. Wilks, formerly published by Messrs. Chatto and Windus, but now the property of Mr. John Hogg. “ Players of Solo Whist have long felt the absence of any work which could be regarded as an admitted authority. Mr. Wilks has, in the book under notice, fully met that requirement.”—Morning Post. “It is undoubtedly the best handbook of the fascinating game yet published. It contains a general explanation of the methods of the game, principles, and practice, with illustrative hands—a capital feature—and the new standard code of laws adopted by the leading sporting clubs. ”—Birmingham Post. “ This is the best handbook of this fascinating game we have ever seen.”— Sporting Times. “ What in the way of a text book and standard is good enough for the chief sporting clubs of London, where Solo is regularly and strictly played, should be good enough, and will be, for the country at large.”—Sportsman. Crown 8vo., 128 pages, price Is. THE SPAS OF WALES: their Medicinal and Curative Properties, with Information as to Scenery, Golf, Fishing, Shooting, Lawn Tennis, Cycling, and General Attractions at each of the Spas. By T. R. Roberts. “No climate, no waters, no baths, no air, can be obtained or enjoyed on the Continent for the ‘cure* of any disease whatsoever—we say this advisedly—which cannot be obtained in as great, or even greater, efficiency within the limits of our own island.”—Lancet. “Those who have neither time nor money for adventures abroad in search of health . . . would be well advised to try in the early autumn the Spas of Wales.”—Speaker.