Snvaltb Coofteiy. It is scarcely necessary to insist upon the importance of this depart- ment of cookery. Obviously, a good cook can do much to assist the convalescent patient on his or her way to ordinary health. In fact, the cook may be said to begin where the doctor leaves off. And, in the first place, it is clearly of great moment that the food given to an invalid should be digestible, and every care should of course be taken in its selection. And, once selected, equal care should be bestowed upon its preparation and presentment. It is essential that the utensils used should be not only clean, but free from injurious pro- perties. Be sure, for example, that the enamel on your saucepans does not come off. Cleanliness, certainly, is imperative. And then, everything that is put before a convalescent should be tempting. It should, to begin with, be thoroughly well. cooked. It should not be too fat, or smoked ; nor should it be sour or ‘ turned,’ as the case may be. The material and the treatment accorded to it should both be unexceptionable. And, when prepared, it should be sent in to the patient in as appetising a way as possible. The cloth should be as white as snow, and all the little accessories of the meal should be such as to satisfy the most exigeant taste. If this is not so, the convalescent is very apt to lose on the sudden the little appetite that he had. It need hardly be said that, in dealing with invalids, not too much of anything should be prepared, as it is rarely that much is wanted. Nor, if the patient does not at once ‘ take ’ to the meal put in front of him, should it be kept long in his sight. ‘ To leave it by his side, from meal to meal, in hopes he will eat it in the interval, is,’ says Miss Nightingale, ‘ simply to prevent him from taking any food at all.’ Certain things should always be kept in stock, and in as great a state of readiness as possible. During hot weather, ice should be freely used to keep the materials for food in good condition. A very useful adjunct to the sick-room is a small gas stove, which renders the cook independent of the condition of the kitchen fire. The stove should not, of course, be in the same apartment with the invalid.