158 MISCELLANEOUS. 1 head of lettuce; pepper and salt; the juice of tt lemon ; a few radishes. Method.—Place the yolks of 2 eggs in a basin, and pour into them drop by drop the salad oil, stirring well all the time. (If, in hot weather, the oil should curdle, add another yolk.) When the mixture has thickened, cut the chicken into very small pieces, removing all bone and skin. Having washed the lettuce well, take the outside leaves and arrange them round a dish like the spokes of a wheel. Then take the heart, cut it up fine, mix it with the chicken, and season with pepper and salt, and place the result in the centre of the dish, over part of the lettuce ; pour over it the dressing ; put the lemon-juice between the mixture and the lettuce ; cut the radishes in two and arrange them round the edge of the plate. When in season, celery can be used instead of the heart of the lettuce ; and cold turkey can be substituted for the chicken. Cooked Salad. (Dr. Kitchener s Recipe.) Ingredients. — Cold cauliflower, delicate cabbage, asparagus-tops, seakale, green peas, kidney beans, and any other vegetables in season. Salad mixture made, if liked, with aromatised pickle vinegar ; a few fresh leaves of cabbage lettuce. Method.—Drain the vegetables thoroughly, and arrange them tastefully in the centre of a deep dish—the greater variety of vege- tables the better. Pour over the whole a plentiful supply of salad mixture,which may have, if desired, a few capers or nasturtium-buds thrown into it. Place on the top a few fresh lettuce leaves. This makes a nice cooling dish in hot weather, and is also easy of diges- tion. Lettuce Salad. Ingredients. — 3 lettuces ; 1^ tablespoonful of salad oil; \ gill of vinegar ; salt and pepper to taste ; 3 eggs boiled hard. Method.—Clean the lettuce care- fully, separating each leaf ; re- move all moisture from them, and cut into pieces. Mince the hard- boiled eggs, mix with the lettuce, and pour over both the oil and vinegar, when these have been stirred well into each other, and seasoned with pepper and salt. If preferred, the lettuce-leaves may merely be separated and laid in a dish, then ornamented with slices of the egg, and moistened as above. Salad mixture (1). Ingredients.—1 teaspoonful of made mustard; 1 teaspoonful of sugar; 2 tablespoonfuls of salad oil; 1 tablespoonful of milk or cream; 2 tablespoonfuls of vine- gar ; pepper and salt. Method.—Put the mustard into a basin with the sugar, and add the oil drop by drop, carefully stirring and mixing the ingredi- ents well together. Proceed in this manner with the milk and vinegar, which must be added very gradually or the sauce will curdle ; then put in the pepper and salt. It ought to have a creamy appearance, and, when mixing, the ingredients cannot be added too gradually or stirred too much. Salad Mixture (2). Ingredients.—1 teaspoonful of mustard ; 1 saltspoonf ul of salt; ^ saltspoonful of pepper; 1 tea-