36 FISH. salt; some finely grated bread- crumbs ; butter. Method.—Take the fish carefully from the bones, and mix with it a little milk and the egg ; add the mace, flour, sauce, and seasoning, and put the whole into well-but- tered scallop-shells or into a deep dish ; cover with bread-crumbs ; place pieces of butter on the top, and brown in the oven or before the fire. Serve very hot. To Boil Haddock. First clean the fish, and remove the eyes. Then place the haddock on a dish, and pour a little vinegar over it, leaving it in the dish for an hour or so, and turning it occa- sionally. In order to procure stock for the haddock, take 2 onions, a turnip, a carrot (all minced or cut small), a small bunch of sweet herbs, half a dozen white pepper- corns, and a shred of mace, and boil them in 2 quarts of water for an hour. Then strain the stock; put it into a fish-kettle with a little salt and twice as much French vinegar ; let it boil, and then put in the haddock. Draw the kettle to the side of the fire, and let the fish, if large, simmer very gently for half an hour. It has been shown that if you boil haddock, the skin cracks and the flesh gets tough. When ready, put the fish on a hot dish, pour some sauce over it, and serve at once, with some more of the same sauce in a tureen. Stewed Haddock. Ingredients.—1 nice fresh had- dock ; 2 eggs ; and a little milk, flour, salt, ketchup, and pepper. Method.—Clean and scrape the fish well, then cut in pieces of about two inches long ; put these in a stewpan with sufficient milk to half cover them, add a little salt, and stew for ten or fifteen minutes ; thicken with flour, adding ketchup and pepper to taste. Serve with the eggs, boiled hard, and cut in slices. An egg beaten up and added to the sauce will be found an im- provement. Stuffed Haddock. Ingredients.—1 haddock; 3 table- spoonfuls of bread-crumbs ; 1 des- sert-spoonful of chopped parsley ; 1 teaspoonful of thyme or dried herbs ; pepper and salt ; part of an egg to bind the stuffing; a little milk. Method.—Mix 2 tablespoonfuls of the bread-crumbs, the pars- ley, herbs, and seasoning, with the egg. Have the haddock well cleaned and dried, and the tail and fins cut off ; put the stuffing into it, and fasten it with a small skewer, or sew the sides together with needle and thread. Truss it with string on a long skewer, in the form of a letter S ; place it on a greased baking-tin, moisten it with milk, sprinkle over it the remaining bread-crumbs, and bake it in a moderate oven for about half an hour or three-quarters, according to the size of the fish. Baste it occasionally with a little butter or good beef dripping. Findon Haddocks. Place the haddock on a tin toaster before the fire; when slightly heated, lay it on a clean table with the skin side up, and, beginning at the head, carefully pull the skin off without tearing the flesh. Next put it in a deep dish, pour boiling water over it, and allow it to re- main in this for about two minutes, then take it out, being careful not to break it, and let it brown for a