PICKLES. 91 change the brine at the end of six days, and let them remain six days longer; or if time is a consideration, let the walnuts lie in brine for nine days, and change the brine three times during that period. When they have been salted sufficiently, drain them in a colander, spread them on dishes, and let them re- main exposed to the air until they become black, which will be in about twelve hours. Make the pickle of the remaining ingredients, boil for about five minutes, then pour it boiling over the walnuts, which have been previously placed in stone jars. When the pickle is quite cold, cover the jars securely, and store in a dry place. In six months it will be ready for use. Keep the walnuts well covered with vinegar, and boil that which is added to them {preserves. Fruit for this purpose should always be picked on a dry day, and, if possible, neither too early nor too late, so that it may not have on it either the morning or the evening dew. When for bottling, it should be steamed or baked on the day it is gathered ; when for jams or jellies, it should be boiled as soon as picked. The old copper preserve-pan is a little out of date, having been virtually superseded by the enamelled stew-pan, which may be used without fear of danger from acids, and which enables red fruits to retain their colour, at least as well as if boiled in a copper receptacle. For preserving, it is well to keep by you three or four wooden spoons, a fine hair-sieve, a few large squares of muslin, and a strainer, none of which should, for obvious reasons, be used for other purposes. All the utensils connected with the making of jams should be strictly clean—the bottles especially so. The pan should not be placed upon the fire flat, but resting upon a trivet. The fruit should be boiled rapidly, both before and after the sugar is added to it, and it should be kept constantly stirred. The spoons used for stirring should be of no other material than wood. The jars containing the preserve should be placed in a dry cupboard or storeroom. On the top of the jam should be paper dipped in brandy, and the jar itself should be tightly covered in. Apricot Jam. Ingredients.—6 lb. of apricots ; 4| lb. of loaf-sugar, pounded. Method. — Pare the apricots (which must be very ripe) as thinly as possible, cut them in halves, and remove the stones. Put alternate layers of the fruit and sugar in a large earthen pan, strewing the sugar very thickly over the last layer of fruit. Let it remain twelve hours. Then break the stones, and blanch the kernels by throwing them into boil- ing water, then into cold ; skin, and cut them into thin slices. Put the apricots with the sugar and kernels into a preserving-pan, and boil the whole gently for about three-quarters of an hour ; stir all the time, and carefully remove the