135 CAKESi SCONES, Jm7. enough milk to make a light dough. Turn out on a board, and roll at once. Cut into small three- cornered scones, and bake in a rather quick oven, on the shelf’ Serve hot, cut through and but- tered. Pikelets. Ingredients.—1| lb. flour ; If pint of milk ; 3 eggs ; 1 dessert- spoonful (or more) of baking- powder; a little sugar; a pinch of salt. Method.—Mix the dry ingre- dients with the milk and beaten eggs; beat all together well; divide into cakes; and cook on a girdle. When done, butter the pikelets, and serve hot. Sally Lunns. Ingredients.—2 lb. of flour; 2 oz. of butter; 1 oz. of sugar; 4 table- spoonfuls of yeast; a little warm water; 1 gill of cream and some milk (or all milk, if new, will do); the yolks of 4 eggs. Method.—Rub the flour, butter, and sugar well together. Mix the yeast with a little warm water, and set it to rise. When it has risen a little, beat up with it the cream and milk (or all milk, if new) and the yolks of the eggs. Warm this a little; add to it the dough, and work it all together ; the dough must not be quite so stiff as bread dough. Mould it into small round cakes; lay them on an iron baking- plate to rise, in a warm place; bake them for about an hour in not too hot an oven. They are eaten cut open and buttered. After they are buttered, they should be closed and returned to the oven for a minute or two. Scotch Scones. Ingredients,—1 f lb, of flour; 1 tea- spoonful of carbonate of soda ; 1 teaspoonful (or rather more) of cream of tartar ; a little butter- milk. Method.—Mix the carbonate of soda well with a little flour before adding it to the other ingredients, otherwise it is apt to spot the scones. Stir all together, and make into a dough with the buttermilk. Place the dough on a floured board, and with the hand make it into a long shape like a large sausage ; divide this into three parts ; roll out each part once, thick and round, and cut into four scones. Lay these on the oven-shelf, which must be rather hot, and bake for a quarter of an hour. These scones are easily made, and when done should be pure white, and as light as a feather. Tea Rolls. (German.) Ingredients.—1|- lb. of flour; 6 oz. of butter; 2 oz. of powdered sugar; 2 tablespoonfuls of yeast; 3 eggs ; 1 cupful of lukewarm milk. Method.—Put the flour in a pan, and set it on the stove to warm. Slightly heat the butter, and mix it with the sugar, yeast, the whole of 1 egg well beaten, the yolks of the other 2, and the milk. Pour this mixture very gradually into the flour, carefully beating it all the time with a spoon till the dough is thin enough to drop from it without any adhering. More milk must be added if necessary. Beat long and thoroughly. Now take the dough, a spoonful at a time, and form it into little oval rolls, pointed at each end, and not more than an inch thick in the centre. Butter a tin, and lay the