155 MISCELLANEOUS. Browned Flour. (For thickening.) Take as much flour as you re- quire, spread it thinly over a plate, and place it in the oven or in front of the fire till as brown as desired. It should be often turned. Any quantity of flour may be browned at a time, put into a corked bottle, and kept ready for use. Fondu. Ingredients.—\ lb. fine flour, well dried ; ^ pint of cream ; a piece of butter the size of a nut; 5 eggs ; a pint of new milk ; 2 oz. of grated parmesan cheese. Method.—Mix the flour, cream, and butter well together in a stewpan over a slow fire, stirring constantly till the mixture is quite thick and smooth ; then add the yolks of the five eggs, the milk, and grated cheese. Stir all to- gether, but not over the fire. Beat up the whites of the five eggs to a strong froth, and mix it lightly with the other ingredients. Bake in a souffle-dish in paper case, in a gentle oven, for half an hour. Take care it is served the moment it comes out of the oven, or it will fall and become heavy. Devonshire Junket. Ingredients.—4 lumps of sugar ; rind of 1 lemon ; 1 pint of milk ; 1 pint of cream ; 1 small teacupful of brandy ; a piece of rennet; a little powdered cinnamon. Method.—Rub the sugar on the lemon-peel until the yellow rind is absorbed ; put the sugar in a saucepan with the milk and half a pint of the cream ; make it hot, but do not allow it to boil. Put the brandy in a bowl, and add to it the contents of the saucepan. Wash the rennet thoroughly to remove the salt, place it (with the rest of the ingredients) in the bowl, suspended by a piece of string. When the mixture is set, draw the rennet out, pour in half a pint of whipped cream, sprinkle a little cinnamon over, and serve. More sugar can be added if desired. Pancakes Quickly Made. Ingredients.—ilb. of flour; 2_tea- spoonfuls of egg-powder ; a pinch of salt ; a little milk; castor sugar. Method.—Mix the flour, powder, and salt well together ; then add, very gradually, enough milk to make a thin batter. Pour just enough of the batter into a frying- pan (in which a little butter has been melted) to cover it, and no more. Keep raising it round the edge with a knife so that it may not burn. When it is cooked through, which ought to be in two minutes or less, strew castor sugar over, fold neatly, and serve. These pancakes are exceedingly good, and are very little trouble to make. Dried Peaches Stewed. Soak the peaches (having pre- viously washed them carefully) for one hour in the water in which they are to be cooked. At the end of that time put them over the fire, covering the saucepan closely, and bring them to a gentle simmer. Stew slowly for half an hour or more until the peaches are quite tender, then pour them with care, so as not to break them, into a deep dish, and sweeten to taste. Cover until cold, then serve. Dried apples, pears, and cherries are also good done in this way. Apples may be flavoured with a little mace and allspice, if liked.