HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 165 remedy — most efficient and ap- plicable in a large number of cases — is a heaped teaspoonful of common salt and as much ground mustard, stirred rapidly in a tea- cupful of water, warm or cold, and swallowed instantly. It is scarcely down before it begins to come up, bringing with it the re- maining contents of the stomach ; and lest there be any remnant of the poison, however small, let the white of an egg, a teaspoonful of strong coffee, milk, or oil be swal- lowed as soon as the stomach is quiet, because these very common articles nullify a large number of virulent poisons. Bread-and-Water Poultice. Put some crumbled bread (not crust) into a jug, and soak in boil- ing water. Stir with a spoon till well mixed, and, if too thin, pour off some of the water. Spread on a rag when using. If milk is used instead of water, boil for one minute. For Burns and Scalds. {Excellent.) Mix one part of Calvert’s pure crystallized carbolic acid with nine parts of pure olive oil. Heat the oil in a small pan, and add the acid. Keep the mixture in a bottle, and use it directly the emergency occurs, pouring it well over the burn or scald, and afterwards binding a clean piece of linen over the affected part. Carrot or Onion Poultice. Boil the carrots or onions till they make a soft pulp, and apply on a rag. Cold Cream. Ingredients.—2 oz. oil of sweet almonds ; 1 dr. white wax ; 1 dr spermaceti. Method.—Melt, and stir in a mortar till cold and smooth. Add either orange-water or rose-water till of the proper thickness. Put in a jar, and cover with skin or leather. Cough Mixture. Ingredients.—1 lb. brown sugar ; 1 lb. treacle; J pint white wine vinegar; 2d. oil of peppermint; 2d. laudanum. Method.—Mix treacle and sugar well till dissolved. Then add the vinegar, and enough water to make a quart of syrup. Lastly, put in the peppermint and laudanum. Diarrhoea Mixture. Ingredients.—^ oz. tincture of rhubarb ; ^ oz. tincture of cin- namon ; 16 drops of laudanum. Method.—Take half the quantity for one dose. For an infant or child a very safe cure is a small quantity of the very best white starch made into a jelly like arrow- root, with boiling water ; a little sugar may be added. This should be given two or three times a day Cure for Earache. Dip some cotton-wool in sweet oil, and powder with black pepper. This, placed in the ear, will speedily relieve the pain. Fomentations. Macerate elder-flowers, camo- mile-flowers, or poppy-heads in boiling water, which must be kept near the fire. Apply by dipping a piece of flannel in the decoction, and wringing it out very hot.