153 MISCELLANEOUS. fied fat, which must have been got ready meanwhile ; and when each is hot, take it out, and put it on paper to drain. Then take out the little round bit in the centre, and, with a fork, scoop out a hole, into which place a little of the cooked chicken, afterwards putting back in its place the round piece in question. Serve very hot. Boiled Chocolate. Ingredients. — Chocolate, sugar, milk and water. Method.—Scrape down the choco- late, and when ready put on to boil equal quantities of milk and water. Pour on to the grated chocolate a little of the boiling liquid, and mix to a smooth paste ; then gradually add the rest of the milk and transfer the whole mix- ture to the pan. Boil for a few minutes with sugar to taste, and serve hot. Coffee. The flavour of coffee may be greatly improved, and its delicate aroma increased, by adding a little bicarbonate of soda to the water with which it is made. It is for this reason that the coffee obtained at Vichy, Carlsruhe, and some other towns is of such superior excellence, a certain percentage of bicarbonate of soda being naturally in the water of these places. To Make Coffee. (A simple way.) Ingredients.— 1 dessertspoonful of coffee ; about 1 pint of boiling water. Method.—Put the coffee into a jug and pour the boiling water on to it ; stir, then allow it to stand by the side of the fire for ten or fifteen minutes to settle. When ready, pour the coffee gently out of the jug into cups, which fill up with boiling milk. Coffee. {As made in Paris.) The coffee berries should be more roasted than is generally the case in England, and the fresher they are roasted the better; in any case they should not be kept longer than a week, and never ground longer than an hour before the coffee is prepared. The powder is to be placed in the ordinary French coffee-pot, in the proportion of half an ounce to every good-sized cupful of water, which should be poured in a boiling state on the coffee. The coffee-pot is then to be placed near the fire iii such a way as to keep it very hot, but under the boiling-point, so that all the strength is brought out, but the aroma not carried off. It is usually kept thus for two hours, and then gently poured into the coffee-pot in which it is to be served. Many persons prefer an addition of chicory powder, which should be in proportion of a tea- spoonful to an ounce of coffee. Clouted Cream to eat with Tarts. Take four pints of new milk; set it on a clear fire, and stir it occasionally. Whenever it begins to boil, take it off, and put it into broad flat dishes to cool. Stir it about in the dishes for some time after it is turned out of the pan ; set it in a cool place, and let it stand twenty-four hours. It is excellent to eat with all sorts of fruit-tarts, and may be served with cream poured over it.