EGGS, CHEESE, ETC, 143 cheese over it, taking care that the bread is well covered in every part. Season with white pepper and salt, add a touch of mustard here and there, and serve at once. Another way is to put the cheese into a saucepan, with pepper, salt, and a little butter ; stir till the cheese is melted, then add the yolk of one egg; spread on toasted bread, and brown before the fire. Stewed Rice and Cheese. Ingredients.—% lb. of rice ; pint of water ; £ pint of milk ; 1 oz. of grated cheese ; pepper and salt. Method.—Boil the rice gently in the water for half an hour ; then add the milk and the cheese, and boil gently for another half-hour. Pepper and salt to taste. Rolled Butter. Take two fluted wooden spoons ; wash them well, and scald them, then rinse them in cold water. Next put some cold water in a basin, and add a little salt to it; dip the spoons in this, then place successively small pieces of butter between them and roll lightly into shapes, such as shells, fircones, balls, etc. To prevent the butter adhering to the spoons, they should be fre- quently dipped in the salted water. Savoury Eggs. Ingredients.—Eggs (as many as required) ; some finely minced chicken or veal; some finely minced ham, tongue, or sausage; 1 salt- spoonful of chopped lemon-peel; a little butter ; a little cream ; some fried bread-crumbs. Method. — Boil the eggs ten minutes; remove the shells and cut the eggs in halves ; take out the yolks and pound them well with the other ingredients. Fry the bread-crumbs, place them on a dish, and arrange the whites of the eggs in them like little cups ; fill the eggs with the mince (previously made very hot over the fire), and, just before serving, hold a red-hot shovel over the dish to make the whole crisp and hot. Scrambled Eggs. Ingredients.—1 tablespoonful of butter ; a little salt; 6 or 8 eggs ; a little pepper. Method.—Melt the butter with the salt in a frying-pan, but do not let it brown. Have ready the eggs, broken into a basin, and, as the butter warms, pour them into the pan, stirring them all the time and tossing them up until they are a soft mass. Care must be taken not to cook them too long. As soon as they cease to run on the pan and can be heaped together, turn them on to a hot dish, dust with pepper, and serve. Steamed Eggs. Beat an egg lightly for ten minutes, season with a little pepper and salt, and steam for about two minutes, till it is quite warmed through—on no account must it be allowed to get hard. Eggs cooked in this way will agree with the most delicate stomach. Eggs on Toast. Ingredients. — 2 tablespoonfuls cooked fish, ham, or other meat; 2 tablespoonfuls of milk ; a small lump of butter ; 3 eggs ; seasoning to taste. Method.—Chop the fish or meat very fine, and beat it up with the milk, butter, eggs and seasoning. Warm over the fire, and spread on hot buttered toast.