105 PUDDINGS. and boil one hour. Turn out, and serve with sweet sauce. Black Currant Pudding. Ingredients.—\ lb. of flour ; a pinch of salt; i lb. of suet; water; some fresh black currants. Method. — Mix the suet, very finely chopped, wfith the flour and salt; add sufficient water to make into a stiff paste. Boll out to about a quarter of an inch thick ; line a buttered basin with it, re- serving some for the lid. Have ready the currants stripped from the stalks ; fill the basin ; wet the edges of the paste ; put on the lid, and press the edges securely together. Tie a floured cloth over the pudding, put it into boiling water, and keep boiling for two hours. Bread Pudding. Ingredients. — 1 thick slice of bread ; . 5 teacupfuls of boiling milk ; 1 table-spoonful of sugar ; a piece of butter the size of a large walnut; a little flavouring ; 5 eggs. Method. — Crumble down the bread, and pour the boiling milk over it (if the bread is stale, allow it to soak in the milk for half an hour); add the sugar, essence, and butter. Beat the yolks and whites of the eggs separately, and stir them in last of all. Pour the mixture into a buttered mould or pudding-dish, and bake in a moderate oven for about three- quarters of an hour. For a plain pudding one egg will be sufficient; a little finely minced suet may be substituted for the butter, and a few currants may be added, if liked. Bread-and-Butter Pudding. Ingredients.—Some thin slices of bread-and-butter; sugar to taste ; a few currants, washed and dried ; a little grated nutmeg or ground cinnamon; 5 teacupfuls of milk ; 2 or 3 eggs. Method.—Arrange the slices of bread-and-butter in a pudding- dish, and between each slice put a layer of currants, a little sugar, and a sprinkle of grated nutmeg or cinnamon. When the dish is nearly full, pour the milk (pre- viously boiled and mixed with the well-beaten eggs) over the bread-and-butter. Allow it to soak for two hours, if possible, then bake in a moderate oven for one hour and a half. One or two of the eggs may be omitted, or, if a richer pudding is desired, more eggs and a little cream may be added. Brown Bread Pudding. (German.) Ingredients. — 1 basinful of grated brown bread; 3 oz. of castor sugar ; 2 oz. of pounded almonds ; 2 oz. of currants ; 2 oz. of sultana raisins; the grated peel of \ lemon ; a little spice; a little milk ; 6 eggs. Method.—Mix all the dry in- gredients together, and stir into them the well-beaten yolks of the six eggs, and sufficient milk to moisten the whole ; then add the whites of the eggs whisked to a froth. Put the pudding in a well- buttered basin, and boil for one hour and a half. Serve with castor sugar, or a pudding sauce, if pre- ferred. Cold Cabinet Pudding. Ingredients. — 4 sponge-cakes ; 3 eggs ; 1| pint of milk; 1 oz. gelatine ; 3 oz. sugar ; 1 wine- glassful of sherry. Method.—Put the gelatine in a