29 SAUCES. Melted Butter. Ingredients. — 1 teaspoonful of flour; \\ oz. of butter; ^ pint of water; a little salt. Method.—Mix the flour and but- ter on a plate to a smooth paste, put it into a small saucepan with the water, and keep shaking or stirring it one way over the fire till it boils. Another way is to put the flour, with the salt, into a basin, and to mix with it very gradually and smoothly the £ pint of water ; pour this into a saucepan, and stir' it over the fire till it has boiled two minutes. Then add the butter cut into small pieces, and continue stirring the whole till the butter is quite dis- solved Boil it quick for a minute, then serve. This sauce can be made richer by adding more butter. Mint Sauce. Ingredients. — 4 spoonfuls of green mint; sugar to taste; 8 spoon- fuls of vinegar. Method.— Pick the mint, and wash it thoroughly, chop it very fine ; then add it to the vinegar previously mixed with the sugar in a tureen; stir, and let it stand for a little before serving. Onion Sauce. Ingredients.—4 or 5 onions ; pint of hot milk; 1 oz. of butter; pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Peel the onions and boil them until tender, which should be in about an hour and a half ; squeeze the water from them, chop them, and add to them the butter, melted rich and smooth with the milk. Season to taste. Boil it up once, and serve. For boiled rabbits, shoulder of mutton, etc. Oyster Sauce. Ingredients.—3 doz. good 1 na- tives ;’ 3 oz. of butter; 4 dessert- spoonfuls of flour; \ pint of new milk or cream; salt; cayenne. Method.—Begin by opening the oysters just before the sauce is wanted for table. Save the liquor and strain it, and then rinse the oysters in it one by one. Place them in a clean saucepan, strain the liquor once more, and pour it over them. Then heat them slowly, keeping them for one or two minutes at the simmering-point, but not permitting them to boil. They must then be taken out and bearded carefully. Mix together the butter and the flour; add them to the liquor; stir the whole until it begins to boil and is thoroughly amalgamated; then add gradually the milk or cream (or equal parts of each), continuing to stir until the sauce boils again, when a little salt and cayenne should be sprinkled in. Finally, put in the oysters, and keep the sauce by the side of the fire until it simmers, when it should be turned into a heated tureen and sent immediately to table. Parsley Sauce. Ingredients.—2 tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley; ^ pint of melted butter. Method.—Wash a good handful of parsley very clean, let it boil for a few minutes in salt and water till tender, then drain it well, mince it very fine, and stir it into the melted butter, well prepared. In winter, when parsley is scarce, the butter may be made with the water in which a little parsley-seed (tied up in a piece of muslin) has been boiled for ten minutes. As a substitute for the parsley-leaves*