SWEETS; AT<7. 122 them about three-quarters full of the mixture. Bake in a quick oven. Lemon Cream. Ingredients.—1 quart of cream just on the turn ; 2 lemons ; sugar to taste. Method.—Rasp the rinds of the two lemons, and squeeze their juice into the cream ; whip with a whisk always the same way for about twenty minutes ; take a sieve, on which lay a piece of fine muslin large enough to contain the whipped cream ; pour the cream on to it ; place the sieve on a hollow dish that the whey may run off, and let it stand twenty-four hours. You can sweeten it to taste while whipping. Lemon Custards. Ingredients. — 6 eggs ; 1 pint cream ; juice and grated peel of 2 lemons ; sugar; 1 wineglassful sherry. Method.—Beat the yolks of the eggs well, and into them stir the boiling cream and lemon-juice and rind. Put sugar to taste, and set over the fire to thicken. Do not let it quite boil, or it will curdle. When almost done, stir into the custard 1 glass of sherry. Turn out, stir till nearly cool, and serve in glass cups or dishes, with nut- meg grated over. Omelette Souffld. Ingredients.—2 eggs ; 1 oz. of castor sugar ; 1 oz. of butter ; a few drops of any essence preferred. Method.—Put the yolks of the two eggs into a basin with the sugar, and beat them for six minutes ; add the flavouring. Whisk the whites to a stiff jelly, and mix them lightly with the yolks. Have ready the butter dis- solved in the omelette-pan, pour in the eggs, hold the pan over a slow fire for two minutes, then put it into a quick oven and bake for four minutes, till the omelette has risen. Turn the omelette on to a hot dish, fold it, sift sugar over, and serve instantly. Pancakes. (.Family Recipe.) Ingredients.—Eggs; milk ; flour; salt. Method.— Allow one egg and one tablespoonful of flour to every tumbler of milk. Put the flour in a basin with a pinch of salt, and with a little cold milk, mix till quite smooth. Beat the eggs well, and stir them into the flour, then add the rest of the milk. The mixture should now have the con- sistency of rather a thin batter. Have ready a nice enamelled fry- ing-pan, and in it melt a small piece of butter. Put some of the batter into a cup, and pour into the pan enough to make a thin layer over it. Let the pancake 1 set ’ over the fire ; then, by fre- quent gentle shaking, prevent it from burning. If necessary, turn with a ‘ slice.’ When nicely browned on both sides, roll up the pancake in the pan and turn on to a hot dish. Put more butter into the pan, and proceed as before. Pancakes should be sent to table as soon as cooked, and should never stand. They are better made with- out flavouring, but should be served with fresh lemon-juice and pow- dered sugar. Baked Pears. Ingredients.—10 or 12 pears ; ^ lb. of loaf-sugar ; 6 cloves ; rind of 1 lemon ; 10 whole allspice ; a few drops of prepared cochineal.