110 PUDDINGS. When slightly cooled mix in the eggs, well beaten, and bake for three-quarters of an hour. Baked Lemon Pudding. Ingredients.—£ lb. of flour; 10 oz. of butter; \ lb. castor sugar; 4 eggs, and 1 large lemon. Method.—Make the flour and 6 oz. of the butter into a stiff paste ; roll out thin, and spread over a rather flat dish; place another layer of paste round the edge. Put the sugar, the re- mainder of the butter, and the grated rind of the lemon into a basin, and place on the stove to melt. Beat the yolks of the eggs and add them, along with the juice of the lemon, to the melted butter. Pour the mixture into the dish, cover with thin greased paper, and bake in a quick oven. Lemon Pudding Boiled. (Soger's Pecipe.) Ingredients.— J lb. of flour; l lb. of sugar : i lb. of bread- crumbs ; i lb. of suet; the juice of 1 good-sized lemon, and the peel grated ; 2 eggs ; milk. Method.—Put the flour in a basin, add the sugar, bread-crumbs, finely chopped suet, lemon-juice, grated peel, two eggs, and suffi- cient milk to make the whole of the same consistency as porridge. Boil in a basin for one hour. Serve with or without sauce. Lemon Cheese-Cake Pudding. Ingredients.—Suet - crust (see Pastry); 2 oz. of white sugar ; the yolks of 3 eggs ; the juice of 2 small lemons or 1 large lemon ; a little grated lemon-peel ; 2 oz. of butter ; 1 penny sponge-cake. Method.—Put all the ingredients, with the exception of the paste, into a saucepan, and let the whole simmer over a gentle fire until it resembles honey ; keep stirring, and do not let it boil. When thick, take it off the fire ; let it cool; then spread it on the paste, previously rolled out thin ; roll the pudding up, tie in a floured cloth, and boil for two hours. Lemon Custard Puddings. Ingredients.—The yolks of 6 eggs, and 3 whites; the grated rind of 2 lemons; the juice of 1 lemon ; \ lb. of powdered sugar ; 2 Naples biscuits, grated ; a small glass of brandy ; 1 pint of cream; 2 oz. of fresh butter. Method.—Put the eggs into a basin along with the lemon-juice, the grated rind, the powdered sugar, the grated biscuits, and brandy ; beat all well together ; then add the cream and butter. Pour into buttered moulds, and bake for half an hour in a quick oven. This is a very good recipe. Lemon Rice Pudding. Ingredients.—£ lb. of Carolina rice ; 1 quart of milk; sugar to taste ; 1 lemon. Method.—Boil the rice in the milk with the sugar until quite soft; pour into a mould previously rinsed in cold water, and let it remain until cold. Peel the lemon; put the peel into a saucepan with a little water, and let it boil for about ten minutes, then throw the Water away and cut the peel in thin shreds ; pour a teacupful of boiling water upon them, add the lemon-juice (strained and sweetened with white sugar), put the whole into a saucepan, and simmer gently for two hours. When cold, pour the syrup over