88 VEGETABLES. fire for a minute or two ; then serve in a very hot dish. Tomato Parci. Ingredients.—\ lb. tomatoes ; 1 oz. of butter; 4 tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs ; a little salt and pepper. Method.—Place the tomatoes in a basin, with sufficient boiling water to cover them ; let them soak for a minute. Then remove the skins, and cut them (against the grain) in slices not too thin. Place in a flat dish half the butter, and sprinkle it with a few bread- crumbs. Then put over it a layer of tomatoes, with a little salt and pepper. Kepeat this process till the tomatoes and crumbs are exhausted, taking care that crumbs are at the top. Then add more pepper and salt, and lastly the remainder of the butter (in small pieces). Bake the whole for twenty minutes. Stewed Tomatoes. Ingredients.—Tomatoes ; pepper and salt; a good lump of butter; vinegar. Method.—Cut the tomatoes into thin slices, and put them into an enamel saucepan ; add seasoning to taste, and a good lump of butter broken into small pieces. Cover the saucepan closely, and stew gently from twenty to twenty-five minutes, until the tomatoes are perfectly tender. Then add the vinegar, two or three large spoon- fuls ; stir well, and serve with chops, broiled steak, or any kind of roast meat. They will be found exceedingly good cooked in this way. Mashed Turnips. Ingredients. — Some large tur- nips ; salt; butter; white pepper; a little cream or milk. Method.—Pare and quarter the turnips ; put them into boiling water with salt, and boil until per- fectly tender : about an hour and a quarter should cook them. Drain them in a colander, and press the water thoroughly out of them with the back of a large plate. Then rub them through the colander with a wooden spoon, place them in a clean saucepan, stir them over the fire for a few minutes to dry them ; then add a little salt if necessary, a lump of fresh butter, a little white pepper, and some cream or new milk ; and continue to simmer and stir the turnips for five or six minutes longer, until the butter is quite melted and well mixed with them. Serve very hot. Turnips Stewed in Butter. Ingredients.—A few nice young turnips; 2 oz. of fresh butter; white pepper and salt. Method.—Dissolve the butter in a large stewpan ; have ready the turnips cut into squares or fancy shapes, and arrange them in a single layer at the bottom of the stewpan. Stew very gently from three-quarters of an hour to one hour until perfectly tender. When nearly done, sprinkle over with a little white pepper and salt. Place them in the centre of a hot dish ; arrange fried or broiled cutlets, neatly round them, and serve. Cold Turnips, Greens, or Spinach. These can be heated in the same manner as cold brocoli, etc.; or a very appetizing dish is made by mincing the greens or spinach very finely, letting them get very hot in the oven; then placing them on rashers of fried bacon, with poached eggs on the top.