VEGETABLES. 83 about two hours and a half. At the end of that time, lift them out of the pot, untie the cloth, mash the peas with a wooden spoon till quite smooth, or rub them through a colander, stir in a good lump of butter, season with pepper and salt, and tie the pudding up tight in another cloth ; boil for one hour longer, turn on to a dish, and serve with boiled pork or bacon. The yolks of two eggs added to the pudding is an im- provement. To Boil Potatoes. Potatoes are beat when boiled in their skins ; when peeled they lose both their flavour and the salts which pass out into the water. They should all be of a size, whether large or small; scrub them very clean, and put them into a saucepan with a little salt, and sufficient warm water to cover them. Boil very gently until nearly tender, then pour off all the water; peel the potatoes, replace them in the saucepan, sprinkle with salt, cover with a cloth, and let them stand by the side of tue fire until perfectly tender and dry. Potatoes without their skins are cooked in the same way. The saucepan in which potatoes are boiled should never be used for any other purpose. To Boil New Potatoes. Choose potatoes of equal size, scrape and wash them well (when very young the skins may be rubbed off with a brush), put them into boiling water with a little salt in it, and, if liked, a small sprig of mint. Boil gently for twenty minutes, or longer, until tender; pour off all the water, cover them with a clean cloth, and let them stand for a few minutes by the side of the fire until thoroughly dry. Serve in a hot dish covered with a napkin. Some cooks add a little butter to the potatoes before dishing, but we do not think it is an improvement. Potato Chips. Ingredients.—Some raw potatoes; a little salt. Method.—Cut the potatoes into neat, round slices rather more than an inch thick, and then into thin spiral shavings, going round and round in the way you peel an apple ; throw these carefully into boiling lard or oil; fry them very crisp of a light brown, sprinkle some salt over, and serve as hot im possible. Potatoes Fried k la Frangaise, Ingredients.—6 nice round pota« toes; -§ gill of clarified butter; salt; some finely minced parsley. Method. — Peel the potatoes, which should not be too large, ana cut each potato into eight pieces, shaped like the quarter of an orange — rounding off the sharp edges with a knife. Place them in a frying-pan, pour over them the clarified butter, stir them about in this, then put the pan on the hottest part of the stove, and let the pota- toes slowly become brown, turning them over frequently with a spoon so that they may be all of the same colour—a delicate browfc.. Twenty minutes should do them. Brain on kitchen paper, pile them on a very hot dish, sprinkle salt over and a little minced parsley, pre- viously blanched, and serve imme- diately. Potatoes are excellent prepared in this way. Mashed Potatoes. Ingredients. — Potatoes; pepper