15 SOUPS. How to Clarify Stock. Ingredients.—1 quart of stock ; \ pint of water ; 1 egg. Method.—Take the white of the egg, whisk it well together with the water, and, whilst whisking, add it gradually to the stock, which must have been previously warmed. Place the soup on the fire, and when it is boiling skim it. Then whisk it well, put it at the side of the fire, and let it settle. Pass it through a fine cloth, and it should then be clear. Beef Soup. Ingredients.—5 lb. of the shin of beef; the knuckle bone of ham, or any other bones and trimmings of meat; 2turnips; 2carrots; 2 onions; 1 parsnip ; 1 head of celery; 1 tea- spoonful of sugar; 3cloves; 3 leeks; pepper and salt; 6 quarts of water. Method.—Cut all the meat from the bones in nice square pieces. Boil the bones and trimmings for 6 hours, keeping the pot closely covered all the time. Strain, and when cold remove the fat. Put the meat in the cold liquor ; cut the vegetables into small pieces, and add them to the meat with the seasoning. Let the whole sim- mer gently till the meat is quite tender. Bread Soup. Ingredients.—1 large onion ; 1 turnip; 1 quart of water; 2 oz. of French roll; 1 pint of milk; 1 oz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and a pinch of pepper. Method.—Boil the onion and the turnip in the water. When they are done, rub them through a sieve and place them—-with the French roll broken up into small pieces-^-in the water in which they have been boiled. Boil for half an hour, stirring the while ; and should there be any sign of stick- ing, pour in a little water occa- sionally. At the end of the half hour, add, gradually, the milk, or as much of it as will make the soup sufficiently thick. Then, boiling- point having been reached, add the butter, salt, and pepper, stir well, and serve. Cabbage Soup. Ingredients. — 1 large cabbage ; 1| pint of boiling water; 1 pint of milk; 1 shalot; 1 tablespoonful of parsley (chopped); 1 oz. of butter; a little salt and pepper; 2 table- spoonfuls of semolina, and 1 slice of toasted bread. Method.—Place some water in a saucepan to boil. Shred the cab- bage, and, when the water boils, put the shreds into the saucepan for five minutes. Strain the cab- bage, and replace it in the pan, together with the pint of boiling water, the milk, the shalot and parsley (both minced), the butter and the seasoning. Boil for fifteen minutes, add the semo- lina, and boil for another ten minutes. Cut the toasted bread into small slices, put them in a tureen, and pour the soup upon them. Calf’s-head Soup. Ingredients.—Half a calf’s head; 2 onions; a few sweet herbs; 1 blade of mace ; a few cloves ; salt and white pepper to taste; 3 table- spoonfuls of ketchup; 3 quarts of pot-liquor or water ; and 4 or 5 oz. of ground rice. Method.—Soak the head in salt and water for six hours ; clean it well) and put it in the saucepan