123 SWEETS, ETC. Method. — Peel and halve the pears, carefully remove the cores, and leave the stalks on ; put them in a baking-jar with a closely fitting lid, add the juice of half the lemon, and the rind cut in slices, the powdered allspice, cloves, cochineal, sugar in the above pro- portion, and just sufficient water to cover the whole. Bake for four or five hours in a cool oven. Serve cold on a glass dish. Pickwick Omelet. Ingredients.— 6 small sponge- cakes ; a little milk ; a wineglassful of sherry; 3 dessert-spoonfuls of strawberry or raspberry jam ; a small quantity of blancmange and custard ; a little nutmeg. Method. — Take a deep glass dish, and place at the foot a suffi- cient number of sponge-cakes to cover it. Moisten the cakes with a little milk and the sherry ; spread the jam on the top, pour over some blancmange, fill up with boiled custard (which see), and sprinkle over with nutmeg. The blanc- mange must be made much thinner than for a mould (little more than a tablespoonful to half-pint of milk), and must not be poured on the glass dish till slightly cooled. A few ratafias improves this dish. Poor Knights. (German.) Ingredients.—Some slices of roll or toasted bread ; a few bread- crumbs ; 2 eggs ; a little milk; powdered sugar, and cinnamon. Method.—Beat up one of the eggs along with a little milk and sugar ; and pour, very gradually, over the slices of roll or toast, enough to soak them ; dip in egg and bread - crumbs, and fry a nice pale brown on both sides. Sprinkle sugar and powdered cin- namon over them when done, and serve very hot. Without the sugar they are exceedingly good with spinach, etc. Prince of Wales Omelet. Ingredients.—1 quart of custard ; 3 tablespoonfuls of marmalade ; a few * ratafias ; a little sherry or brandy. Method. — Spread a layer of marmalade over the foot of a but- tered dish, fill up with custard, and put all over the top ratafias soaked in sherry or brandy. Bake till the custard is set. Rice Fritters. Ingredients.—} lb. of ground rice ; a little milk ; a bit of cinna- mon ; a laurel-leaf ; a small piece of lemon-peel; a little fresh butter; 2 oz. of sugar ; the yolks of 2 eggs ; flour ; bread-crumbs. Method.—Boil the rice tender in a very little milk, with the cinna- mon, laurel-leaf, and lemon-peel. When done enough, take out the seasoning. Grease a stew-pan with a little fresh butter, put in the rice, and stir into it the sugar and the yolks of two eggs. Work it well over the fire till it comes to a paste, then spread it on a well- floured board. When cool, throw a little flour on it, cut it in pieces, and roll into small balls on long- shaped rolls ; dip them lightly into the beaten yolk of an egg, and then roll them in very fine bread- crumbs ; do this a second time ; then fry them in very hot lard a good brown ; shake some powdered sugar over, and serve. Ground-Rice Blanc Mange. Ingredients.—4 oz. of ground- rice ; 2 pints of milk ; sugar to taste ; any flavouring preferred.