G5 MEATS. Croutons aux Rognons. Ingredients—2 veal kidneys ; a little butter; salt; 2 minced onions ; a spoonful of flour ; a little broth ; 5 eggs ; some finely minced parsley ; a little grated nutmeg ; some slices of French roll ; milk ; oil or clarified butter. Method.—Cut the kidneys into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan with the butter, salt, and onions ; let them stew till they are quite tender. Meanwhile, put into another saucepan a piece of butter, a spoonful of flour, and a small quantity of broth. Reduce it till it is thick ; then put in the kidneys, four whole eggs, some finely minced parsley, and a little grated nutmeg ; stir well together over the fire for a few minutes, and let it get cold. Cut some slices of French roll of the day before’s baking, dip them in milk in which you have beaten up an egg, and spread the mince on them thickly. Fry them in hot lard or clarified butter, and serve very hot. Cutlets & la Rachel. Ingredients. — Veal cutlet ; a little butter ; p&te de foie gras forcemeat ; mushrooms ; some mixed vegetables boiled and cut into fancy shapes. Method.—Take the veal (the quantity required) and cut it into neat little rounds ; trim each care- fully, and flatten with a broad- bladed knife. Fry gently in the butter till sufficiently cooked, then cover with the above stuffing. Lay a round piece of mushroom in the centre of each cutlet; wrap each cutlet separately in pig’s caul, previously soaked in water till white and dried, and, when the cutlets are wanted, make them hot in the oven; place the vege- tables in the centre of a dish, arrange the cutlets round them, and serve. Breast of Veal Stewed. Ingredients.—Breast of veal, about 3 lb. ; butter and flour; onions ; some good hot stock; lemon-peel; mace ; pepper and salt; 1 or 2 whole onions ; 1 or 2 whole shalots ; 1 stick of celery; 1 turnip, quartered; 2 carrots, cut into lengths ; a few green peas; a sprig of parsley and marjoram. Method.—Cut the veal into con- venient pieces for helping at table; make a thickening of butter and flour ; brown in it some onions sliced, and the pieces of veal ; moisten with hot stock (adding it gradually), and season with lemon-peel, mace, pepper and salt. When, the meat is about half ccoked, put in the remainder of the ingredients, and simmer the whole gently until perfectly tender. The vegetables must be well covered with the stock. When done, place the meat in the centre of a large dish, and arrange the vegetables neatly round it, having previously removed the lemon- peel and herbs ; pour sufficient gravy (thickened if required) over all, and serve. Knuckle of veal may be stewed in exactly the same way, or, if preferred, with half a pound of rice, one or two onions, and a little mace and salt. Roast Fillet of Veal. Ingredients. — Fillet of veal; stuffing (see ‘FoPwCEMEAT,’ etc.); melted butter. Method.—Take out the bone ; 5