34 FISH. water. If liked, add to the flour, before mixing, a little mustard, and season to taste. Four on to the moistened flour a little gravy, mix well, and go on gradually adding the gravy until you have a sufficient quantity, or fill up with water. Put this sauce over the fire to warm, theD add the butter, and bring to the boiling-point. Stir till the sauce thickens, turn it out over the sounds, or serve in tureen. To Dress Crabs. Take a fresh, medium-sized crab, take the flesh out of the large shell, and mix with it a little oil and vinegar, with salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste. Then return the flesh to the shell, and serve it with the claws placed round it. Stewed Eels. Cut one large or two small eels into small pieces, dry them, and flour them. Melt 2 oz. of butter in a frying-pan, and then brown the eels in it. Afterwards put them into the stew pan, adding a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion (cut into four), pepper, salt, and spice (if desired). Let the fish be nearly covered by stock or water, and stew gently for 40 minutes. Thicken the sauce with flour, and then serve the eels with the sauce round them. Tomato is a good flavouring for this dish. How to Fillet. Any fishmonger, of course, will undertake to fillet your fish for you; but, in general, he does it rather wastefully, and it is best to do the work yourself. The pro- eess—which can be applied to any flat fish, i.e. soles or plaice, etc.—is simple enough. A celebrated French cook has recommended as follows : ‘ Take up the fillets by running your knife first between the bones and the flesh, then between the skin and the fillet; by leaning pretty hard on the table, they will come off very neatly.’ But a much better way is this : Skin the fish with a sharp knife ; then make an incision down the spine-bone from head to tail; next insert the knife between the bones and the flesh, pressing hard against the former, and gradually raise up the flesh. The fillets thus formed can be treated in several modes : (1) they may be divided, trimmed into shape, egged, covered with bread-crumbs, fried in the usual way, and served with sauce ; or (2) each fillet may be rolled up —in one or two parts, according to size—and fastened round with thin twine or cotton, afterwards being egged, crumbed, and fried in plenty of boiling lard; (3) fillets may be cut into small strips or squares, lightly sprinkled with pepper or cayenne, salted and floured, fried in butter over a brisk fire, then well drained, and sauced with a good bechamel, and flavoured with a teaspoonful of minced parsley; sometimes, (4) when the fish are not very large, they are boned, but not cut along the middle ; they are then rolled from tail to head, having first been covered with pounded shrimps, mixed with butter, bread- crumbs, mace, and cayenne (or with pounded lobster, mixed with coral, and similarly seasoned); after- wards they are laid in a dish (with ingredients as in the recipe ‘To Bake Soles’), well covered with bread-crumbs and clarified butter, and baked from twelve to sixteen minutes, i.e. till the crumbs are coloured brown.