164 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. well wash the paint ; finish with another flannel wrung out of clean water. To Clean Leather. Use milk, or white of egg, and polish with a dry duster. To Clean Plate. Mix a little bone-ash, water, and spirits of wine together into a thick paste ; rub it lightly over the plate with a soft rag (the plate should be previously washed in a strong lather of soap and water, and well dried) ; when the paste is dry, brush it off with a soft plate-brush, and polish with a dry leather. Polish for Bright Stoves and Steel. Ingredients.—1 tablespoonful of turpentine ; 1 tablespoonful of sweet oil ; emery-powder. Method. — Mix the turpentine and oil together with as much emery-powder as will make the mixture the thickness of cream ; put it on the articles to be cleaned with a soft flannel or rag, and polish off quickly with another soft duster ; then polish with a little dry emery powder, and a clean dry leather. To remove rust, spots, rub with fine emery-paper. To Clean Furniture. Ingredients.—2 parts lime-water to 1 part of linseed oil. Method. — Mix the lime-water and oil together, beat until quite creamy, then bottle for use. The furniture should first be washed with vinegar and water (about half a pint of vinegar to a quart of water), polished well with a soft cloth, then rubbed with the above mixture, which will be found ex- cellent. Apply the mixture with a bit of clean flannel, and polish with a soft duster. Furniture Cream. Ingredients.—\\ oz. white wax ; 2^ oz. beeswax ; 1 oz. Castile soap; 8 oz. turpentine ; 16 oz. water. Method.—Shave the white wax, beeswax and soap; add turpentine, and put into an earthenware vessel. Let it stand twelve hours. Then pour boiling water over it, and stir till quite cold. To Clean Hairbrushes. Wash them in cold water with a little soda or ammonia in it. This keeps the bristles white and stiff. Be careful that the water does not touch the backs of the brushes. Cleansing Wash for the Hair. Ingredients.—1 oz. of borax; 1 oz. of camphor ; 1 pint of i cold water. Method.—Crush the borax and camphor together to a fine powder, and put it into a bottle with the water. Rub the wash into the roots of the hair with a small piece of flannel or brush, and then dry the head vigorously with a towel. Scent Powders for Linen. Ingredients.—1 oz. coriander ; 1 oz. orris-root; 1 oz. rose-leaves; 1 oz. aromatic culamus; 2 oz. lavender flowers; £ drachm rho- dium-wood ; 5 grains musk. Method.—Mix all well together, reduce to a coarse powder, and place in muslin bags. Excellent. Antidote to Poison. If a person swallows any poison whatever, or has fallen into con- vulsions from having overloaded the stomach, an instantaneous