SWEETS, ETC. 121 cream, and put the whole in a mould to set on the ice or in a cool place. Floating Island (1). Ingredients. — 3 eggs ; 3 table- spoonfuls of strawberry or rasp- berry jam ; some thick cream. Method — Mix the whites of the eggs and the jam together, and whisk for an hour. Place on a glass dish with the cream round it. Floating Island (2). Ingredients.—3 eggs ; 1 teaspoon- ful of corn-flour ; milk ; sugar ; and a few drops of essence of almonds. Method. — Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs. Beat the whites well and put them, one at a time, into a pint of boiling milk and poach for a few seconds, then take them out. Mix the corn-flour with a little cold milk and stir into the boiling milk ; then add the yolks of the eggs (well beaten), sugar, and essence of almonds. Pour the custard into a crystal dish, and arrange the whites over it. Serve cold. Gateau de Pommes. Ingredients.—1 lb. of fine sugar ; 1 lb. of apples ; some lemon-peel; the juice of 1 lemon. Method.— Boil the sugar to a syrup ; add it to the apples, peeled and cored ; put in a little lemon- peel and the lemon-juice, and boil the whole over a slow fire in a saucepan, without a lid on it, till the apples fall and become smooth, and of proper consistency ; then put it in a mould, and serve cold, with burnt cream made as follows : Make a rich custard of cream and eggs, boiling lemon-peel in it, but no sugar. When cold, pour it over the gateau de pommes, sift a good deal of sugar over, and brown the top with a salamander. Gooseberry Fool. Ingredients.—2 lb. fresh goose- berries, well picked ; sugar; 1 pint water ; cream or custard. Method.—Put the fruit on with sugar and water, and boil till very soft. Strain through a colander, and stir into the pulp cream or custard to the quantity desired. Italian Cream. Ingredients. — 1 pint of thick fresh cream ; ^ handful of fine sugar ; the juice of ^ lemon ; 3 tablespoonfuls of madeira ; ^ oz. of isinglass. Method.—Whip the cream well, and add to it the fine sugar, the lemon-juice, and madeira. Dis- solve the isinglass in a little water, strain it into the cream, and put into a mould. A little less isin- glass in winter will be sufficient. Lemon Cheesecake. Ingredients.—4 eggs ; £ lb. of butter ; £ lb. of sugar ; the juice and rind of 2 lemons. Method.—Break the lumps of sugar, put them into a jar, and strain the juice of the lemons over them; add the eggs when they have been well beaten, and the finely grated rind of the lemons. Put the jar into a saucepan of boiling water on the fire, and keep stirring the mixture one way till it is of the consistency of honey. When cold, cover closely, and keep in a dry place. When wanted for cheesecakes, the addition of a few pounded almonds, or candied peel, is an improvement. Line some patty-pans with puff-paste, and fill