68 POULTRY AND GAME. Method. — The day before the fowl is wanted, cut it up into joints. Then put it in a pan with the water, and let it come very slowly to a boil—say, in about an hour. After this, let it simmer gently for four or six hours, as the case may be, till tender. Then let it get cold in the broth, and save the latter for soup. Next day, cut the flesh of the chicken from the bones, which can be added to the broth. Then cut the meat into inch-lengths about half an inch wide. Take a cupful of broth, strain, and place in a pan on the fire. When it is heated, season with pepper, salt, and parsley; stir in a tablespoonful of butter, rolled in the flour ; boil well ; pour the broth upon the egg (beaten) in a bowl; and then add the pieces of chicken. Next, cover the bottom of a pudding-dish with the crumbs ; put in the gravy and meat; cover these again with crumbs ; divide the remainder of the butter into small lots, and drop on to the top. Cover the dish, and let the mixture bake to a nice brown. Then send the dish to table. Boiled Buck. (An old-fashioned Welsh Dish.) Ingredients.—Ducks (salted); cold water ; some large onions ; milk ; pepper ; parsley and butter. (See ‘Sauces.’) Method. — Salt the ducks from twenty-four to forty-eight hours ; the warmer the weather the fewer the hours required for salting. Put the ducks on in cold water, and when they come to the boil, skim. Boil gently for twenty minutes or longer, until tender. Have ready the onions twice boiled, and mashed with a little milk and pepper ; serve this in a tureen ; and pour over the ducks, when dished, some parsley and butter. If preferred, the ducks may be covered with the onion sauce. Goose, which requires rather longer salting, may be cooked in the same way. Thejr will both be found excellent and digestible. Duck Stewed with Green Peas. Ingredients.—1 duck ; butter ; a little flour ; some stock ; 1 quart of green peas; a few sprigs of parsley, thyme, and sage ; pepper and salt. Method.—Melt a good lump of butter in a stewpan over the-fire ; put in the duck (previously trussed) and brown it nicely all round ; then take it out and lay it on a dish. Put into the stewpan about a dessert-spoonful of flour, brown it, then add very gradually some good stock ; stir till smooth, and replace the duck. Add the peas, parsley, thyme and sage ; season to taste, and stew very gently for two hours or longer, until the duck is tender. To serve, place the duck on a dish with the peas round it. Boiled Fowls. Proceed according to directions for ‘ Boiled Turkey.’ Simmer gently from twenty minutes to about an hour, according to the age and size of the fowls. Serve with boiled ham or ox-tongue, parsley and butter, or oyster sauce. Grilled Fowl. Ingredients. — Remains of cold fowl; pepper and salt; juice of half a lemon; clarified butter; bread-crumbs; a little grated lemon- peel. Method.—Cut the meat into small pieces ; season them with pepper and salt; squeeze over them the