MEATS. 58 add the stock and seasoning. Lard the sweetbreads and put them in the gravy to stew for twenty minutes. Beat the eggs, and add them to the cream, with the minced parsley; take the stewpan off the fire, put in the cream and eggs, bring nearly, but not quite, to the boil, and finally add some boiled asparagus-tops. The dish is then ready to be served. Mutton Cutlets h la Jardiniere. Ingredients.—Some good stock or mutton broth; vegetables (fresh haricots, green peas, sprigs of cauli- flower, etc.); a few mushrooms ; butter ; flour ; mutton cutlets ; pepper and salt. Method.—Boil the above vege- tables, and any other vegetables liked, that will take the same time to cook, in some good stock or mut- ton broth. When sufficiently cooked, throw them into a stew- pan, in which you have previously made a thickening (or roux) of butter and flour; season with pepper and salt, and let them simmer. Meanwhile, fry the cutlets (sea- soned) in butter, arrange them neatly on a hot dish, and pour the ragofit of vegetables over them. Yeal cutlets or pork chops may be cooked in the same way. Scotch Haggis. Ingredients.—A sheep’s pluck ; | lb. of the curly suet from the gut; 1 full breakfast-cupful of medium Scotch oatmeal ; 1 onion, chopped fine ; salt and pepper. Method.—Take away the lights from the sheep’s pluck ; boil all the remainder (heart, liver, etc., in- cluding the two pieces of tripe, when cleaned, that, accompany the aunch) for three quarters of an our, preserving the liquor. Chop all finely, adding the suet, oat- meal, onron, and plenty of pepper and salt. Mix the whole in a basin with as much of the liquor as will make it of a proper consist- ency. Having cleaned the paunch and sewed up any holes, sew up the mince in it, leaving room for ex- pansion, and plump the haggis into boiling water ; boil for an hour and a half, without the lid on the pot, taking care to prick it at intervals with a needle (not with a fork, which would burst it). Lift out of the pot with a ladle, and serve hot. This is a genuine Scotch Haggis. Note : When a lamb’s pluck is in season and can be procured, it is preferable, together with young onions with the green tails. Haricot of Mutton. Ingredients. — 8 nice mutton- chops ; 6 moderate-sized onions; lijr tablespoonful of flour; 2 tur- nips ; 3 carrots ; seasoning to taste ; small piece of butter or lard; 1 pint of stock. Method.—Put the butter into a frying-pan,and, when heated, fry the chops a nice brown. Slice the onions, turnips, and carrots, and place them in the pan after the chops have been removed, then put all into a stewpan. Make a gravy by adding to the flour and seasoning one pint of stock, which should be gradu- ally stirred into the flour. Put the gravy into the frying-pan and stir till it thickens, then add it to the chops and vegetables. Stew slowly for about 3 hours, and serve. Sheep’s Head. Ingredients. — 1 sheep’s head (prepared for boiling) ; butter; flour; pepper and salt; lemon- juice. Method.- -Soak the heal well in