161 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 11 ground ginger, 6 cloves, and a little Jamaica pepper ; \ pint of brandy to every gallon of wine. Method.—Pour the water, boil- ing, over the picked and washed fruit ; let it stand twenty-four hours, then strain through a flannel bag. To every gallon of liquor allow the above proportions of sugar, raisins, and spice. Boil for one hour, skim well, and when lukewarm put it into a dry cask with 4 tablespoonfuls of fresh yeast to every 9 gallons of wine. Allow it to ferment for a fortnight; add the brandy, and bung up the cask. Let it remain until Christ- mas. The liquor must stand in a warm place to make it work. Elder wine is usually mulled, and served with toasted bread and a little nut- meg. Ibousebolb Ibtnts. Hints for Washing Day. Flannels should be washed in water only slightly hot—rather more than tepid. Hot water shrinks them. In the water mix a little melted soap and a teaspoon- ful of ammonia (this whitens flan- nels that have become yellow, and disposes of any disagreeable odour which may adhere to materials worn next the skin). Only one article should be put into the tub at a time, as flannels, when left to soak, become hard and thick. They should be rubbed as little as pos- sible, as this, too, helps to thicken and shrink them. Rinse in tepid water (not cold), squeeze them tightly, or put them through a wringing machine, which is better. They should be shaken well before being hung out, and should be fre- quently pulled into shape while drying. When flannels have to be dried in the house, let the drying be done as quicMy as possible before a bright fire, as slow drying shrinks them. Blankets should be washed in water containing a little white soap, a tablespoonful of borax, and pne of spirits of hartshorn. Give them three waters if they are much soiled. Put them through a wring- ing machine, shake well to raise the pile, and dry quickly. Stockings, socks, etc., should be folded neatly and clapped between the hands before they are hung out. After being washed, white clothes should be allowed to lie in cold water for a few minutes before they are put into the boiler ; this frees them from all soiled water, which would otherwise get boiled into them. They should never be put into boiling, but always into cold water, and should be allowed to come slowly to the boil. When they have boiled ten minutes take them out. One or two tablespoon- fuls of pulverized borax, put into the water, will help to whiten them, and will not injure the finest linen. When taken out of the boiler, clothes should be rinsed first in hot, then in cold water ; this ex- tracts all the soap. Finally rinse them one by one in water with a little blue in it. Wring well, and dry speedily. Sprinkle a little water over those that require it, and fold neatly, ready for mangling or ironing.