SWEETS, ETC. 124 Method.—Mix the rice smooth with a little of the cold milk, then boil the remainder of the milk with the sugar and flavouring, and stir the rice into it. Boil gently for twenty minutes, stirring all the time. Pour into a mould, pre- viously dipped in cold water. When quite set (it should be allowed to stand over-night, if pos- sible), turn out on a dish, and garnish with preserve or stewed fruit. Rice Pancakes. Ingredients.—4 oz. rice-flour ; 1 quart of milk ; £ lb. of sugar ; 4 oz. flour ; 8 eggs ; salt. Method.—Put the rice-flour on to boil in the milk till well thickened ; then stir in the sugar. Mix to- gether the flour and beaten eggs with a pinch of salt, and add to the rice when cold. Fry this batter like pancakes, and serve with melted butter, sweet sauce, or sugar and lemon-juice. Rice Snowballs. Ingredients.—f lb. of rice ; rind of 1 lemon ; 7 or 8 small apples ; sugar ; cloves. Method. — Pare and core the apples, and push into the holes sugar and 2 or 3 cloves. Boil the rice, with sugar to taste, and fla- vouring of the lemon-rind, and when tender, take it out, drain it, and roll it round the apples. Tie up in small cloths separately, boil for one hour, and serve with custard. If eggs are added to the rice, and it be boiled in milk, it can be put into small cups till cold, turned out, and served with pieces of jelly on each ball. This is a good dish for children. Semolina Blanc Mange. Ingredients.—l?r oz. of the best Italian semolina ; 1 pint of milk ; 1 oz. of loaf-sugar ; the yolk of* 1 egg ; a few drops of lemon or other flavouring. Method.—Soak the semolina in a quarter of a pint of the milk for ten minutes, then stir it into the remainder of the milk, which must be boiling ; add the sugar, and stir the whole over a clear fire for twenty minutes. Then take it off, and mix in quickly the yolk of the eggs, beaten up with the flavouring. Pour into a mould, previously dipped in cold water. When quite firm turn out, and serve with cream, preserve, stewed fruit, or custard. Spanish Cream. Ingredients.—1 oz. gelatine ; 3 pints milk ; 6 eggs ; 8 tablespoon- fuls of sugar. Method.—Soak gelatine in the milk for an hour, and then let it come to the boil. Beat the yolks of the eggs with the sugar, and stir into the gelatine. Let it simmer ; then take it off the fire, and pour over it the whites of the eggs, beaten to a froth. Flavour with lemon or vanilla extract. Strawberry Souffle. Ingredients. — 3 penny sponge cakes ; a little port wine ; straw- berry jam ; 4 eggs ; 1 pint of milk; pink sugar. Method.—Put the sponge cakes in a glass dish, moisten them with wine, and spread a layer of straw- berry jam on the top. Make a custard with the yolks of the four eggs and the pint of milk; when it has cooled a little pour it over the cakes ; whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, pile them high on the dish, sprinkle with pink sugar, and serve cold.