PASTliY. 98 the paste-board ; make a hole in the centre, into which put the yolk of the egg, the lemon-juice, and salt; mix the whole with cold water (this should be iced in summer, if convenient) into a soft flexible paste with the right hand, and handle it as little as possible ; then squeeze all the butter-milk from the butter, wring it in a cloth, and roll out the paste; place the butter on this, and fold the edges of the paste over so as to hide it; roll it out again to the thickness of a quarter of an inch; fold over one-third, over which again pass the rolling-pin ; then fold over the other third, thus forming a square ; place it with the ends, top, and bottom before you, shaking a little flour both under and over; and repeat the rolls and turns twice again, as before. Flour a baking-sheet, put the paste on this, and let it remain on ice or in some cool place for half an hour; then roll twice more, turning it as before ; place it again upon the ice for a quarter of an hour, give it two more rolls, making seven in all, and it is ready for use when required. Puff Paste (3). (For Meat Pies, etc.) Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour; | lb. of butter, lard, or clari- fied dripping ; a pinch of salt; water. Method. — Make according to directions for Puff Paste (1), or rub the butter lightly into the flour ; add the salt, and mix the whole into a smooth paste with a little cold water. Turn on to a board, roll out two or three times, and it will be ready for use, Crisp Paste for Tarts. Ingredients.—\ lb. of flour, well dried.; | oz. of pounded sugar ; j cupful of boiling cream ; 1^ oz. of butter ; the yolk of 1 egg. Method.—Mix the flour and sugar well together ; make into a paste with the boiling cream and butter; work it well, and then add the yolk of the egg. A Good Crust for Fruit Tarts. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour; \ lb. of butter; 1 dessertspoonful of sugar; cold water! Method.—Rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar, and mix the whole together with as much water as will make a stiff paste ; roll it out three times as thin as a crown-piece. This is a good paste to cover all fruit tarts in dishes. Almond Pastry. Ingredients.—Puff paste ; a few sweet and bitter almonds ; the white of 1 egg ; a little sugar. Method. ■— Make some square thin pieces of puff paste ; pound a few sweet and bitter almonds very small; mix them with the white of the egg and a little sugar ; spread this upon the pieces of pastry, and bake them in the oven till they are as crisp as possible. Cheese Pastry. Ingredients.—4 oz. of flour, 3 oz. of butter, i teaspoonful of baking powder, 2 eggs, 3‘oz. of grated cheese, 1 teaspoonful of lemon- juice ; a little salt and pepper. Method.—Place the flour on the board, and add to it half of the butter chopped up into small pieces. Add the baking-powder, and, with the aid of a little cold