93 PRESERVES. them in water for ten minutes, let them cool, and cut from the flat side of each a piece large enough to allow the seeds and pulp to be scraped from the inside. Next, dry the cucumbers, put inside each some sliced ginger, lemon-rind, mace, cloves, and peppercorns. Pat back, and tie on, the piece cut off. Pour over the cucumbers clarified sugar, 1 lb. to each pound of fruit ; cover firmly with a plate, soak for two days, then boil up the sugar with one-half more added. Keep the fruit thus in soak for a fortnight, boiling up the syrup three times ; then add the juice and grate of one lemon to every two cucumbers, boil all up for ten minutes, and pot. Damson Jam. Ingredients.—6 lb. of ripe dam- sons (freshly gathered if possible) ; 4J lb. of loaf-sugar, roughly powdered. Method.—Rub the damsons in a clean cloth, split, stone, and weigh them, put them into a preserving- pan, and boil rapidly for forty minutes, stirring all the time ; add the sugar, and, when it is dis- solved, boil the jam for fifteen minutes longer, keeping it stirred and thoroughly skimmed. Put into pots, and, when cold, cover closely. Gooseberry Jam. Ingredients.—To every pound of gooseberries allow 1 lb. of powdered sugar and \ pint of water. Method. — Cut the heads and stalks off the gooseberries ; put the gooseberries in a preserving- pan, and strew the sugar over them as you put them in ; add the j water in the above proportion; I let the whole boil gently for a few | minutes, stirring all the time ; then boil more rapidly for about twenty minutes, still stirring, until the fruit looks quite clear, and will jelly. Put it into pots, and, when cold, place brandy papers on the top, and cover closely. For red gooseberry jam allow J lb. of powdered loaf-sugar to every pound of fruit. Orange Marmalade. (Scotch Recipe.) Ingredients. — Seville oranges ; loaf-sugar ; water ; lemons. Method.—Take equal quantities of oranges and sugar. Wipe the oranges well, and grate off the yellow skin. Cut them cross-ways, extract the juice, and strain through a sieve. Take away the white part, skin and pips from the oranges, and put on the rinds to boil till tender, changing the water during the process. Take off the skins, scrape away any remaining white part, and cut them into very thin strips. Put the rinds, pulp, and juice into the sugar, which should be clarified, boil for half an hour, and add, for every pound of fruit, the juice and grate of one lemon. Boil up again, and turn into jam-pots. The lemon-juice may be omitted, and the grate of the oranges added, if liked. Transparent Orange Marmalade. Ingredients. — Oranges ; refined sugar; water. Method. — For this marmalade only the juice and pulp of the fruit are required. Wash the pulp in a small quantity of water, and strain the liquid, adding it to the juice. To each pint of the latter allow 1^ lb. of refined sugar, and partly boil the sugar ; then add it to the juice, and boil for a