38 FISH. They are good eaten either hot or cold, and will keep a long time if well covered. Mackerel and trout may be dressed in the same way. To Boil Herrings. Ingredients.—Salt; vinegar; some grated horseradish. Method.—Scale, clean, and wash the herrings ; dry them thoroughly in a cloth, and rub them well over with salt and vinegar. When the water boils, put them in ; about fifteen or twenty minutes will do ihem. Then take them up ; drain them well, and put them on a dish. Serve with grated horseradish, and parsley and butter sauce. Mac- kerel may be boiled in the same way, and served with fennel sauce. To Cook Kippered Herring. Ingredients.—2 kippered herrings; boiling water ; £ oz. of butter ; hot water ; a little pepper. Method.—Place the herrings in a basin, and pour over them, so as to cover them, some boiling water. Take them out at once, and lay them, skin downwards, in the fry- ing pan, into which you have already put the butter and hot water (about a tablespoonful). Let the fish fry for ten minutes, taking care that the fire is not strong enough to boil them, and basting them frequently with the gravy made of the butter and water. Transfer them to a hot dish, butter them slightly, sprinkle lightly with pepper, and serve very hot. They may also be cooked in the ordinary way, in a Dutch oven or toaster before the fire. Kedgeree. Ingredients .— Remains of any cooked fish ; the same quantity of rice ; 1 oz. of fresh butter; 2 eggs ; a little mustard, salt, and pepper. Method.—Carefully extract all bones from the fish ; boil the rice twenty minutes, and the eggs four minutes ; chop the latter up very fine, and mix all the ingredients together. Stir over the fire until thoroughly hot ; then serve, piled up pyramid-fashion, on a very hot dish. To Boil Lobsters. Put them in fast boiling water (salted), so that life may at once become extinct ; 5 oz. of salt should go to 1 gallon of water. A moderate-sized lobster should be well boiled in fifteen or twenty- five minutes ; a larger one will re- quire from thirty to forty minutes. Before the lobster is sent to table, take off the large claws, and crack the shells across the joints ; sepa- rate the tail from the body, and split it quite through the middle. The whole should be dished up nicely on a napkin ; garnished, if liked, with curled parsley ; and served with a sauce, or with oil and vinegar. Curried Lobster. Ingredients.— 1 large fresh lob- ster ; £ oz. of butter ; 1 small onion ; 1 dessert-spoonful of curry- powder ; pepper and salt; \ pint of veal gravy ; 1 dessert-spoonful of milk or cream; a little lemon- juice. Method.—Take all the meat from the shell; cut it in medium-sized pieces ; melt the butter in a small saucepan ; and throw in the onion, previously soaked over-night in boiling water, dried in a towel, and chopped v^ry finely. When it is a nice pale brown, stir in the curry- powder and pepper and salt. Smooth out all lumps in the pow- der, and add by degrees the gravy, stirring all the time. When this