iSgQS, Cbecse, etc. The first necessity in an egg is that it should be fresh—not only because it is pleasanter so, but because the white, indigestible from the first, becomes more and more indigestible every day. One method of choosing eggs is to apply the tongue to the larger end ; if it feels warm, then the egg is fresh. Another way is to hold the egg up to the light; if it looks clear, it is good ; if thick, then it is stale ; if there is a black spot on the shell, then it is bad. As a matter of digestibility, the more raw you can eat an egg, the better it is for you. There are few things more indigestible than hard-boiled eggs. For invalids, it is not de- sirable to put eggs into baked puddings ; but a light custard may be given, and a raw egg beaten up in water, or milk, or soup, or beef-tea, is, it is well known, very nourishing. Indeed, some authorities go so far as to say that eggs are particularly good for the brain, which is strengthened by the phosphorus in them ; and, as a natural consequence, eggs may be said to conduce to long life. If fresh butter smells agreeably and is of the same colour throughout, then it may be accepted as good. If it tastes sour, that is a proof that it has not been sufficiently washed from the buttermilk ; and if veiny or open, it has probably been worked with an inferior kind. To choose salt butter, put a knife in it, and if the knife smells rancid, you may be tolerably sure the butter is bad. To preserve salt butter : place it in a cask previously well cleaned and salted, and keep it carefully covered. As a general rule, winter butter is not so good as that of summer. The best mode of keeping a large piece of cheese is to cover it with white paper, thickly buttered. When a small piece leaves the table, it is well to place it in a damp cloth, and keep it in a pan in a cool and not too dry cupboard or pantry. It ripens best in a damp place. If it goes too ‘ mity,’ pour a little spirit on the ‘ mity ’ parts. It is a pity cheese is not more largely eaten, for it has three times the nitrogenous quality of meat, and is therefore a more economical food. Undoubtedly, people of sedentary habits find it difficult of digestion ; but persons who have much exercise, or live much in the open air, can eat it with impunity. And to those who have delicate stomachs, we can recom- mend the cheese-puddings and other dishes of cooked cheese, for which we give recipes in the following pages.