MEATS. 52 thus made, covering it, for security’s sake, with a sheet of greased paper. Dry the outside of the heart with a towel, and place it with the drip- pings in an oven-tin. It should bake at the rate of twenty minutes for each pound and twenty minutes in addition, basting going on all the time. Meanwhile, the ‘ deaf ears ’ should be washed, placed with the cold water and the onion (sliced) in a saucepan, and allowed to simmer for an hour. The heart being baked sufficiently, strain the liquor from the ‘ deaf ears.’ Melt the butter in the saucepan, stir in the flour, and add to it the strained liquor, ket- chup, pepper and salt. The whole should be cooked for two minutes, at the end of which the paper should be removed, and the heart placed on a hot dish, with the sauce poured round it. Then serve. Collared Beef. Ingredients.—7 lb. of the thin end of the flank of beef ; 2 oz. of coarse sugar; 6 oz. of salt ; 1 oz. of salt- petre ; 1 large handful of parsley (minced) ; 1 dessert-spoonful of minced sage ; a bunch of savoury herbs ; J teaspoonful of pounded allspice ; salt and pepper to taste. Method.—Choose fine, tender beef, but not too fat, lay it in a dish, rub in the sugar, salt, and salt- petre, and let it remain in the pickle for a week or ten days ; turn- ing and rubbing it every day. Then bone it, remove all the gristle and the coarse skin of the inside part, and sprinkle it thickly with parsley, herbs, spice, and seasoning in the above proportion’ taking care that the former are finely minced, and the latter well pounded. Roll the meat up in a cloth as tightly as possible, bind it firmly with broad tape, and boil it gently for six hours. Immediately on taking it out of the pot, put it under a heavy weight (without undoing it) and let it remain till cold. Note : During the time the beef is in pickle, it should be kept cool and regularly rubbed and turned every day. Scotch Collops. Ingredients.—2 lb. of good, juicy beef ; a little flour, pepper, salt, ketchup, and boiling water. Method.—Mince the meat very finely, being careful to take out all bits of gristle and skin. Place it in a clean saucepan over the fire, dredge in a little flour and pepper, and stir the meat briskly with a fork until it is entirely free from lumps, and is no longer red ; cover close, and let it stew for a few minutes in its own gravy, then pour in a spoonful of ketchup and a little boiling water. Simmer slowly for one hour and a half. Add the salt when it has cooked one hour. Serve in a hot dish garnished with sippets of crisp toast. A few nicely poached eggs laid on the top of the collops are an improvement. Fillets de Bceuf. Ingredients.—The undercut of a sirloin of beef ; butter ; ± pint (or rather more) of rich gravy; 2 small dessert-spoonfuls of any good sauce ; pepper and salt; lemon- juice, fried mushrooms, or tomato sauce. Method.—Carefully remove all the skin and sinews from the under-cut of the sirloin ; cut the beef into small pieces about a quarter of an inch thick, flatten them with a rolling-pin, make them