ADVERTISEMENTS. Iiondon: John Hogg, 13, Paternoster Bow, E.C. NEW BOOKS OF TRAVEL AND ADVENTURE. MATTHEW FLINDERS; or, How we have Australia. Being the True Story of Captain Flinders’ Adventures and Explorations. By Robert Thynne, Author of “The Story of Australian Exploration.” With Nine Illus- trations and a Chart. Crown 8vo., 352 pp., cloth, price 3s. 6<1., gilt edges, 4s. “Between these covers all information regarding Australia’s growth is given in simple but graphic language, and the prominent part played in it by Captain Flinders. . . . It is exciting and readable from beginning to end.”— European Mail. “ The book is not only entertaining, bnt has also the merit few boys’ books have—and which is not missed by the boys—of being instructive and histori- cally accurate.”—Dover and County Chronicle. “It is a book after a boy’s own heart, and should prove one of the most popular gift-books of the season.”—Teachers' Aid'. “ This is an ideal boy’s book, for the narrative takes the form of an absorb- ing story by an eye-witness, although fact has not been sacrificed to fiction.”— Times of India. “In no portion of the narrative has fact been sacrificed to romance, so that the reader will obtain genuine instruction as well as entertainment.”— Christian Million. “ This book will make a capital prize or gift-book for the elder boys of our schools. . . . Every boy should know the story of the explorer who gave the name of ‘ Australia ’ to the scene of his arduous labours. The book is written in a pleasant vein, is well got up, and deserves wide popularity.”— The Schoolmaster. UNDER THE NAGA BANNER. By Charles J. Mansford, Author of “ Shafts from an Eastern Quiver,” etc. With Eight Illustrations by J. Ayton Symington. Crown 8vo., 352 pp., cloth, price 3s. 6J., gilt edges, 4s. “ Mr. Mansford has already given us one or two excellent Indian tales, but the one now before us is, we think, even more exciting and full of adventure than any of its predecessors. ”—Bookseller. “ Mr. Mansford is an ideal story-writer for boys.”—Sheffield and Rotherham Independent. “ The book shows that Mr. Mansford has lost none of the skill which dis- tinguished ‘Shafts from an Eastern Quiver.’”—British Weekly. “ The siege of Manipur and the heroism of Grim wood and his wife are still remembered, and it is about the people and country in that neighbourhood that a most exciting story has been written.”—The Christian Million. “ The situations occurring in the tale are dramatically conceived and carried out, more particularly when the adventurers come across the great treasure of Lawi in the latter’s weird tomb. This passage is equal to anything of Rider Haggard’s. Old boys as well as young will greatly enjoy this thrilling recital of daring deeds and unique adventure.”—Dundee Advertiser.