PASTRY. 102 the whole into a stiff paste, gather- ing in all the flour in the bow]. Turn out on the board, and roll out to a thin sheet, long-shaped. Spread jam evenly over it, and roll up neatly, forming the ends like a bolster. Place on a greased tin, and bake for about an hour, in a moderate oven. Sausage Rolls. Ingredients.—£ lb. cold pork ; £lb. boiled ham; 1 lb. flour; 1 des- sert-spoonful of baking-powder ; 1 teaspoonful mixed herbs ; 1 egg ; £ pint cold water ; 5 oz. butter ; seasoning to taste. Method— Chop the pork and ham well separately, then mix with the herbs and seasoning. Make with the flour, baking- powder, and salt, moistened with the water and beaten ego:, a light paste; roll this out once on a paste-board ; put on it, in small pieces, the butter ; roll up, and knead gently, then roll again on the board into rather a thin paste. Cut the paste into pieces of the desired size ; put in each a small portion of the minced meat; cover round with the paste, and ioin the edges well together. Bake in a tin in a quick oven till nicely browned. pubbtnos. It is of the first importance that all the ingredients used in the making of puddings and sweets should be unquestionably fresh and good. If any are stale or sour, they will, vitiate all the others, and the result will be considerable waste. The freshness of the eggs used should be especially attended to ; and care should be taken that the milk has not even a touch of sourness. Currants should be cleaned, raisins stoned, almonds and spices pounded, and the rinds of oranges grated, with absolute thoroughness; and we may add that the weighing-out of ingredients, in the first place, cannot be too accur- ately done. All puddings made with paste should be opened a little at the top as soon as they are taken out of the pot. And they should be sent at once to table, as, if there is any delay in serving, they are rendered uneatable. ‘ Many persons,’ says an authority, ‘ prefer their puddings steamed ; but when this is not done, they should be dropped into plenty of boiling water, and be kept well covered with it until they are ready to serve ; and the boiling should never be allowed to cease for an instant, for they soon become heavy if it be interrupted.’ Attention should be paid to the thorough cleaning of pudding- cloths. The best way is to wash them in three quarts of boiling water, to which a pint of wood ashes has been added, and then to rinse them in abundance of water, changing it several times. They can also be washed in soda and water (2 oz. of soda to a gallon of water), provided they are afterwards carefully rinsed. Washing with soap is to be deprecated, but, if unavoidable, the rinsing and soaking afterwards in successive changes of water should be thorough. The cloths should be always carefully dried, and kept folded in a clean drawer.