81 VEGETABLES. is by some persons considered an improvement. To Boil Broad Beans. Ingredients.—2 quarts of boiling water; 1 tablespoonful of salt; beans. Method. — Shell the beans just before they are wanted, wash and drain them, and throw them into the boiling water, salted in the above proportion. Boil rapidly until perfectly tender (from fifteen minutes to half an hour, according to their age). When quite done, pour them into a hot colander, drain well, and send quickly to table with parsley and butter, or plain melted butter, served sepa- rately in a tureen. Boiled bacon should always accompany this vegetable ; it may be dished over the beans. The younger the beans are the better. Trench Beans. Ingredients.—'To every 2 quarts of water allow I tablespoonful of salt: a very little carbonate of soda ; butter, pepper and salt. Method.—Wash the beans well, cut off the tops and stalks, remove the strings at each side, and cut the beans lengthways into delicate strips. Drop them into salt and water as they are done. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water with the salt and a little carbonate of soda in it; put in the beans, and boil quickly, with the lid off the saucepan, for fifteen minutes or longer, according to their age. Drain in a colander, put them into a saucepan with a little butter, pepper and salt, and shake them over the fire for a minute or two, then serve. French beans should only be eaten when young ; when old they are tough and indigestible. French Beans Stewed. Ingredients.—Some young French beans ; boiling water with plenty of salt in it; 3 spoonfuls of good broth ; a little cream ; a piece of butter rolled in flour ; pepper and salt. Method.—Cut the stalks off the beans and remove the fibres, shred them fine, and wash them in salt and water ; put them oil to boil in a good deal of water with plenty of salt in it, which preserves their greenness. When they are about half done, drain them, and put them into a stewpan with the broth, cream, butter rolled in flour, pepper and salt ; stew gently till quite tender, and serve hot. Haricot Beans. Ingredients. — ^ lb. of haricot beans ; 1^- pints of cold water; a very little dripping ; melted butter made with milk (or milk and water); a little salt; pepper ; 1 large spoon- ful of chopped parsley. Method.—Soak the beans over night; drain them from the water, and put them into a saucepan, with the above proportion of cold water, and a little dripping. Let them boil from three to four hours until quite tender. Then drain the n well, and place on a hot dish. Have ready the melted butter smoothly made, add to it a little salt, a sprinkle of pepper, and the finely chopped parsley ; stir the whole over the fire for a minute, then pour over the beans, and serve. If preferred, the beans can bo served without sauce, simply shaking them over the fire for a minute or | two with a little butter, pepper and I salt. G