94 PRESERVES. quarter of an hour, skimming well meanwhile. The skins will make candied peel. Raspberry Jam. Ingredients.—6 lb. of ripe rasp- berries (freshly gathered if pos- sible) ; pint of red-currant juice ; 3 lb. of loaf-sugar. Method.—Take the stalks off the raspberries, put the latter in a pre- serving-pan, and bruise them gently with the back of a wooden spoon ; boil for fifteen minutes, stirring all the time. Then add the red-currant juice and sugar, roughly powdered, and boil for thirty minutes longer ; stir well, and remove the scum as it rises, or the jam will not be clear- Put into pots, and, when cold, cover closely. Rhubarb Jam. Ingredients.—Allow 1 lb. of loaf- sugar to every pound of rhubarb ; the rind and juice of 1 lemon to every 6 lb. of fruit. Method. — Wipe and peel the rhubarb, cut it into small pieces, and put it in a large basin with the lemon-peel cut up fine, and the sugar. Let it lie all night. Next morning put the whole into a pre- serving-pan, and simmer gently for four or five hours, keeping it care- fully skimmed, and stirred with a wooden spoon. Put the jam in pots, and cover with egged paper. Strawberry Jam. Ingredients. — 4 lb. of straw- berries ; 1 lb. of white-currant juice ; 2^- lb. of loaf-sugar. Method. — Remove the stalks from the strawberries, weigh the latter, put them into a preserving- pan with the currant-juice, and boil for thirty-five minutes, stir- ring constantly. Add the sugar, beaten small, and boil the preserve again quickly for twenty-five minutes. Stir gently all the time, and skim carefully. Put the jam into pots, and, when cold, cover closely. Vegetable Marrow Preserve. Ingredients.—To every pound of marrow allow 1 lb. of loaf-sugar and 1 lemon. Method.—Peel, and remove the seeds from the marrows, which slice very finely, and place in a deep dish, with alternate layers of loaf-sugar. Let these remain for twenty-four hours, then put them into a pan and boil them for twenty minutes, after which re- turn the preserve to the dish, and allow it to stand twenty-four hours longer. Add the juice of the lemons, and the rinds, minced ex- tremely small, and boil the whole for about forty minutes. Pour into jars, and, when cold, place brandy papers over, and cover the pots with paper dipped in the white of an egg. Preserved Walnuts. (Medicinal.') Ingredients. — Allow £ lb. of sugar to each score of green wal- nuts. Method. — Procure the walnuts fit for pickling—that is when the shell is so soft that a needle can pierce it easily—put them into a stone jar with the sugar, and place the jar in a deep saucepan of boil- ing water to boil slowly for three hours, taking care that the water does not get Into the jar. The sugar, when dissolved, should cover the walnut; if it does not, add more. Tie closely down with a bladder, and in six months it will be ready for use. Walnuts pre«