MEATS. 63 if liked, with sage and onion stuffing, or if preferred, the stuff- ing may be baked and served separately. To Boil Pickled Pork. Put the pork in a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover it ; bring gradually to the boil, then simmer gently until tender. Allow rather more than twenty minutes to the pound, as pork should be well cooked. Should the pork be very salt, soak it in water for about two hours before boiling it. Pork and Apple Pie. (American Recipe.) Ingredients.—2 lb. lean, fresh pork; 4 winter apples, tart and juicy ; 1 heaped tablespoonful of butter ; pepper, salt, mace, and a pinch of cloves ; browned flour ; puff paste. (See ‘Pastry.’) Method. — Cut the pork into inch lengths, cover with a cup of cold water, and stew gently half an hour. Let it get cold, skim the fat from the gravy, take out the pork, and arrange a layer in the bottom of a pudding-dish. Season with pepper and salt. Over the layer spread sliced apple, sprinkled with sugar, spice, and small pieces of butter. Proceed in this order until pork and apples are used up, having apples for the upper layer. Pepper and salt the gravy, stir in the browned flour, pour it into the pie. and cover with the pastry. Bake for hours, not too fast. Serve hot, and make only in cold weather. Sausages. Ingredients.—| lb. of pork, fat and lean ; ^ lb. of lean veal; £lb. of beef suet; £ lb. of finely grated bread-crumbs; the rind of \ lemon ; ^ nutmeg ; 3 sage leaves ; | teaspoonful of pepper ; 1 tea- spoonful of salt ; ^ teaspoonful of savory; £ teaspoonful of marjoram. Method.—Remove all skin and gristle from the pork, and chop it very finely with the veal and suet; mince the lemon-peel and add it with the bread-crumbs and half nutmeg, grated ; wash the sage- leaves, chop them finely, and mix them and the remaining ingre- dients with the sausage-meat. Blend all thoroughly together, and put into delicately clean skins. Calf’s Head Boiled. Ingredients.•—1 calf’s head (pre- pared for boiling) ; cold water ; salt ; melted butter; minced parsley ; pepper and salt; lemon- juice. Method.—Wash the head tho- roughly ; remove the brains ; soak the head in cold water, then in hot water to blanch it ; soak the brains also in warm water to remove the blood. Put the head into a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover it well ; when it boils, add a little salt, and care- fully remove the scum as it rises. Boil gently from two hours to two hours and a half, until tender. Clean and skin the brains, put them into hot water, with salt ; boil gently for about fifteen minutes; drain, chop them, and mix them with a few spoonfuls of the melted butter, a little minced parsley, pepper and salt, and a spoonful of lemon-juice. Take up the head, skin the tongu§, and put it in the centre of a dish with the brains round it. Pour some melted butter with parsley over