CAKES, SCONES, ETC. 128 and then fry them in hot lard from five to ten minutes, so that they may acquire a nice brown colour ; drain them on blotting-paper to free them from fat, sprinkle them with sugar, and serve very hot. It is usual, before they rise, to open them and introduce a spoonful of jelly or marmalade, and to glaze the outside with egg. This cake is very good. It is eaten in G-ermany on Shrove Tuesday, as pancakes are in England. Fruit Cake. Ingredients.—\ lb. of butter (or half lard may be used) ; 6 oz. of sugar ; 2^ teaspoonfuls of baking- powder ; f lb. of sultana raisins ; 2 oz. of blanched almonds, chopped; 1 teacupful of milk ; f lb. of flour ; ^ lb. of rice-flour ; 2 eggs. Method.—Beat up the butter to a cream, add the eggs (beaten with the sugar), then the flour, baking- powder, and other ingredients. Mix thoroughly. Put the mixture into a well-buttered cake-tin, and bake in a moderate oven. Sufficient for two small cakes. Gingerbread. Ingredients.—2 lb. of flour ; 2 teacupfuls of syrup ; 1^ teacupful (or rather less) of brown sugar ; ± lb. of butter ; 1 oz. ground ginger ; ± oz. ground cinnamon; 2 tea- spoonfuls of carbonate of soda ; 1 teacupful of butter-milk ; 2 eggs, well beaten. Method.—Put the syrup, sugar, butter, ginger, and cinnamon into a basin, stir all together, and place before the fire till melted. Mix the soda with the flour ; pour in the other ingredients, and mix the whole together with the butter- milk, then add the eggs. If butter- milk cannot be had, sour milk will do as well. Put in a buttered tin, and bake till done. When cold cut into small squares. Gingerbread Cake. Ingredients.—lb. of flour ; ^ lb. of sugar ^ lb. of butter; ^ lb. of treacle; 2 eggs; 1 heaped teaspoon- ful ground ginger ; a few almonds. Method.—Put the treacle, sugar, and butter into a pan, and place it on the stove to melt. Put the flour and ginger into a basin. Beat up the eggs, blanch and cut the almonds, and add to them the melted ingredients. Mix well with the flour, and bake in a buttered tin for one hour and a half. Honey Cakes. (German.) Ingredients.—^ lb. of honey ; \ lb. of flour ; 2 oz. of butter ; 2 oz. of pounded almonds ; h drachm of pounded cloves ; the grated peel of half a lemon ; ^ lb. of carbonate of soda, dissolved in water. Method. — Put the honey and butter into a saucepan, and let them come to a boil over the fire ; take the saucepan off and allow it to stand for a few minutes, then stir in, very gradually, the flour and other ingredients, putting in the soda last of all. Let the whole remain in a cool place over-night. In the morning, roll out the paste about half an inch thick, cut it into little square or round cakes, and ornament each cake with blanched almonds and lemon-peel. Bake, till a pale brown, in a mode- rate oven. Huckleberry Cake. (American Recipe.) Ingredients.—3 eggs; £ cupful of butter; 1 cupful of sugar; £ cupful of milk ; 2 small cupfuls of pre- pared flour; 2 cupfuls of ripe berries, well dredged with flour