40 FISH. should be cut into fillets and tied with string, to preserve their shape; and put it into well-salted water, to boil quickly. After about 20 minutes, take out and drain the fillets, remove the strings, and place on a hot dish. Serve with shrimp, parsley, egg, or any sauce pre- ferred. Boiled Salmon. Scale, empty, and well wash the salmon ; taking care to leave no blood inside. Then put it in a fish-kettle, with a gallon of water and 4 oz. of salt. Let the fish boil gently till done (allowing 10 minutes to each pound) ; then place it on a fish-plate to drain. Transfer it to a folded napkin, and serve it with lobster or shrimp sauce, and dressed cucumber. Collared Salmon. Ingredients.—3 lb. of salmon. Seasoning of pounded mace, pep- per, salt, and cloves ; vinegar; water. Method.—Split the fish, scale and bone it; wash it clean and dry it. Season well with above ingre- dients ; roll it up, tie it round, and put it in a kettle. Put enough vinegar and water to cover it (1 pint of vinegar to 3 pints of water); season with pepper and salt, and simmer gently till done. The boil- ing liquor, with more vinegar add- ed, may be used to preserve the salmon. Serve with melted butter. The same dish may be baked with vinegar and butter. Crimped Salmon. Ingredients.—Salmon; water ; a little salt. Method. — Let the salmon be quite fresh, and clean it well; cut it into slices, two or three inches thick ; allow these to lie in cold salted water for an hour, and then plunge them into a fish-kettle of boiling (salted) water. Let them remain in the water for a minute or two, and then raise them out of it for the same length of time. Go through this latter process three or four times ; for by so doing the. curd is set, and the fish becomes crisper. Allow it to boil gently till thoroughly done, remov- ing the scum at intervals. Serve with shrimp sauce, or plain melted butter. To Dress Dried Salmon. (Yorkshire Recipe.) Ingredients.—Some dried salmon; some hard-boiled eggs; 1 pint of cream; 2 oz. of butter; 1 teaspoon- ful of flour; some mashed pota- toes. Method.—Pull the salmon into flakes, and chop the eggs (not too finely). Put both into the pint of cream, with the butter rubbed up with the spoonful of flour. Skim it, and stir till it boils. Make a wall of mashed potatoes round the dish, and put the fish in the centre. Salmon Patties. Ingredients.—Four slices of bread cut about 2 in. thick ; f pint of milk; 1 teacupful of grated bread- crumbs ; 2 oz. butter ; 1 oz. flour; 2 eggs ; salt and pepper; 1 lb. cold salmon. Method.—Mix the flour with a little cold milk ; melt the butter in a pan, and stir in the flour and half-pint of milk. Take from the salmon all skin and bone, and shred it well with a fork. Put the salmon in the batter described above, and season to taste. Stand the saucepan beside