125 SWEETS, ETC. Sweet Omelet. Make a batter as directed for pancakes, but rather thicker, using less milk. Pour about 2 teacup- fuls into the pan (enough to be about one-third of an inch thick); fry as a pancake, but longer, and turn out flat on a hot plate. Spread over a layer of preserve, and serve very hot. Trifle. Ingredients.—1 quart good cream; 3 wineglassfuls sherry or other wine ; 6 oz. powdered sugar ; lemons, jam ; 6 sponge cakes, ratafia biscuits ; sweet almonds ; custard ; 2 eggs; small candied fruits. Method.—The night before the trifle is required, prepare the ‘ whip ’ as follows : Put into a large basin the whites of eggs, well beaten (the yolks can be used in % the custard), the cream, sugar, 1 glassful of sherry, and juice of 1 or 2 lemons, as liked. Whisk these ingredients well, and when formed into a stiff froth, put to drain on a hair sieve. In the morn- ing, put into a large deep glass dish 6 sponge cakes, and soak them with sherry ; put here and there about them a few ratafias and sweet almonds which have been blanched and split. Over these spread a layer of jam or jelly. Place over this a good custard, about two inches deep, and then heap in the form of a pyramid the whipped cream, and garnish with candied fruits. Velvet Cream. Ingredients.—2 or 3 spoonfuls of lemon, orange, or pineapple syrup; some new milk ; a little rennet. Method.—Put two or three spoonfuls of any of the above syrups in the bottom of a dish ; heat some new milk lukewarm ; pour it on the syrup ; put in as much rennet as will set it, and cover it over till ready. Victoria Sandwiches. Ingredients.—The weight of 2 eggs in flour, castor sugar, and butter; 1 teaspoonful or baking powder ; 2 eggs ; any kind of jam ! or marmalade. Method.—Beat the butter to a cream ; stir in the flour by degrees; then add the sugar, baking-powder, and eggs, well whisked. Beat all together lightly for some minutes ; pour the batter into a buttered tin. and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Allow it to cool a little, then cut the cake through the centre, spread it with preserve, press the two sides slightly to- gether, and cut into long sand- wiches, which arrange in cross bars on a glass dish, and serve. Cakes, Scones, etc. In making confectionery, the first requisite of success is that the in- gredients should be of the best, as well as thoroughly fresh and dry. Eggs should always be thoroughly well whisked, and the mixing of the materials should also be done with care. Yeast should, when bitter, be used sparingly, and the sponge should be left twice the usual time to rise. For light cakes, a brisk oven is the best; for large rich ones,