PASTRY. 100 Cherry Tart. Ingredients. — Cherries ; moist sugar ; short crust lb.). Method.—Take a deep pie-dish and put in the centre of it a small cup, turned upside down. Round the cup place sufficient cherries (picked and wiped) to quite fill the dish ; sprinkle sugar thickly over them. Roll out the paste to about a quarter of an inch in thickness ; lay a border round the edge of the dish, wet the pastry, and put on the cover, carefully pressing the two edges together with your thumbs ; trim and or- nament the edge ; make two small slits in the top to allow the steam to escape, and decorate with leaves. Bake in a brisk oven for about three-quarters of an hour. Dust sifted sugar over, and serve either hot or cold. Any fruit-tart may be made by this recipe. Open Jam Tart. Ingredients. — Puff-paste ; jam —any kind preferred. Method.—Line a shallow dish, or tart-tin, with puff-paste, and lay a strip about an inch wide round the edge. In the centre spread a thick layer of any kind of jam preferred, and ornament the top with narrow bars of the pastry, twisted and placed diagon- ally both ways over the surface of the preserve. Bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes or half an hour. A pretty effect is produced by dividing the tart (with twisted strips of the paste) into six or eight sections, and filling each section alternately with jam and marmalade, or some nicely made custard. Some cooks add the jam after the pastry is baked, as they con- sider that both the flavour and colour of the preserve is lost by baking. Cream-Puffs. Ingredients.—£ lb. of butter ; | lb. of prepared flour ; 6 eggs ; 2 cupfuls of warm water. Method.—Stir the butter into the warm water ; set over the fire, and let it gradually come to the boil, stirring all the time. When boiling, put in the flour. Cook one minute, stirring constantly. Turn into a deep dish to cool. Beat the eggs light—yolks and whites separately—and whip them into the cooled paste, the whites last. Drop large spoonfuls of the mixture upon buttered paper, not so near as to touch or run into each other. Bake about ten minutes in a quick oven, until they are of a golden brown. Filling. (For Cream Puffs.) Ingredients.—4 cupfuls of milk ; 2 tablespoonfuls of corn-flour ; 2 eggs ; 2 cupfuls of sugar ; 1 full teaspoonful of lemon or vanilla essence. Method.—Mix the corn-flour to a smooth paste with a little of the milk, and boil the remainder. Add to the beaten eggs the sugar and corn-flour. Pour gradually upon these the hot milk ; mix well ; return to the fire, and stir the whole until thick. Let it get cold before flavouring it. Pass a sharp knife carefully round the puffs— which should also be cold—split neatly, and fill with the mixture. They are best when eaten fresh. Matrimony Cakes. Ingredients.—2 lb. of puff paste; 1 egg ; 2 or 3 lemons ; currants ; sugar.