MEATS, 62 Potted Ham. Ingredients. — To 1 lb. of lean ham allow ^ lb. of fat ; 1 teaspoon- ful of pounded mace ; nutmeg grated ; ^ teaspoonful of cayenne. Method.—Mince the ham, fat and lean together ; pound it in a mortar, season with the remainder of the ingredients, put it into a deep baking-dish, and bake for half an hour in a moderate oven ; press it well into a stone jar, fill up the jar with clarified lard, and cover closely. For sandwiches, etc. If well seasoned it will keep a con- siderable time in winter. Pigs’ Feet. Ingredients.—6 pigs’ feet; H oz. flour; 2 pints of milk; salt and pepper. Method.—Clean and scrape the feet, cutting them across the knuckle to the joint, put them in a saucepan in cold water, and, when this boils, drain it off. Put the feet on again in boiling water, and boil till tender. Mix the flour smoothly with a little cold water. Pour off the water from the feet, cover them with the milk, let them stew for half an hour, and then add the flour. Season to taste, and boil all together for a few minutes. Serve in a deep dish. Pig’s Pettitoes. Ingredients.—A pig’s feet, heart, and liver ; butter; flour ; pepper; salt; sippets of toasted bread. Method.—Put the feet, heart, and liver into a saucepan with just sufficient water to cover them; simmer gently for fifteen minutes, then take out the heart and liver and mince them very fine. Let the feet stew for about half an hour from the time they first boiled ; put back the minced liver and heart; thicken the gravy with butter and flour; season with pepper and salt, and simmer the whole gently for about five minutes, stirring occasionally. Place the mince in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the feet (pre- viously split) and the sippets of toast alternately round it, pour the gravy in the middle, and serve. Pork Chops. Ingredients.—Some loin chops ; pepper and salt. Method.—Trim the chops neatly, cutting away the greater portion of the fat; dust with pepper and salt, and broil over a clear fire for about twenty minutes, turning them occasionally. If preferred, they may be dipped in egg and bread-crumbs, and fried. When done, arrange round a dish, with apple sauce or chopped cabbage, in the centre. Serve with tomato sauce in a tureen. Koast Leg of Pork. Ingredients. — Leg of pork ; stuffing. Method.—Scald the perk as if for boiling; score the skin to make the crackle, but do not cut into the fat. Place oiled paper over if the fire is fierce, but re- move it before the pork is done, or the crackle will not be brown. Stuff with sage and onion stuffing (see ‘Forcemeat,’ etc.) placed in a hole prepared for it. Serve with apple shuce. (See ‘Sauces.’) Loin of Pork. Score it with a sharp knife, and either roast or bake it. (See direc- tions.) Serve with apple-sauce in a tureen. The loin may be stuffed,