49 MEATS. Put in another pan enough gravy to cover the palates ; thicken with butter and flour, and season with cayenne or pepper, and salt. Boil up the gravy, and skim it. Cut the palates into pieces, put them in the gravy, and simmer gently for twenty-five minutes ; add the ketchup and onion liquor ; boil up again, and turn into a hot dish. Roast Beef. Ingredients.—10 lb.round of beef, top side. For stuffing : 6 oz. suet ; | lb. bread-crumbs ; 1 teaspoonful of fresh parsley ; 1 teaspoonful of mixed dried herbs; pepper and salt; 2 eggs ; £ lb. beef dripping. Method.—Put the beef on a board, and make to a nice round with skewers, tied round with string, cutting in the centre of the top a hole for the stuffing. Chop the suet and parsley finely ; grate the bread-crumbs, sifting them through a strainer ; rub the herbs well through the fingers, picking them thoroughly ; then mix all to- gether in a basin with seasoning. Beat the eggs, and with them moisten the stuffing. Stuff the beef, and skewer over it a piece of greased paper, which is taken off when the beef has been in the oven for one hour. With a knife put the dripping over the sides of the beef ; then place it in a tin, and bake it for two hours, keeping it well basted. When done, put the joint on a dish, strain the fat from the tin, and into the gravy dredge a little flour, salt, and pepper. Add to the gravy \ pint of boiling water, turn out into a saucepan, and bring to the boil. Serve over or with the roast beef. Boiled Round of Beef. Ingredients.—12 lb. of the silver- side of the round ; lukewarm water. Method.—Let the meat lie in salt for about ten days ; wash it well in cold water, roll it round, fasten with skewers, and bind firmly with broad tape. Put it on in lukewarm water, and boil gently for about four hours. (See directions for ‘Boiling.’) Serve with turnips, carrots, and suet-dumplings. The aitchbone of beef, and the ribs of beef rolled, may be cooked in exactly the same way. Save the liquor (in which the meat has been boiled) for pea-soup. To Salt Beef. To salt beef for immediate use, common salt, previously well dried at the fire, is better than any other pickle. The kernels should be' carefully extracted ; then sprinkle the 'meat well with salt, and six hours afterwards hang it up to drain. After it has drained, rub it thoroughly in every part with salt, and lay it in a salting-tub. Cover it over with a cloth saturated with the brine, and then with the cover, which should fit close to the tub. It must be turned and rubbed every day with the brine. A round of beef of 25 lb. weight will require 1| lb. of salt, to be rubbed in at first. Turned and rubbed every day, if not wished very salt, it may be eaten in four or five days. If you wish it red, rub it first with saltpetre, in the propor- tion of an oz., and the same quan- tity of moist sugar, to 1 lb. of common salt. Sea Pie. Ingredients.—Some tender steak; turnip, carrot, and onions ; pepper and salt; § lb. of flour ; 3 oz. of 4