154 MISCELLANEOUS. Black Currant Cordial. Ingredients.—To every quart of currants allow 1 quart of gin, and 1^ lb. of loaf sugar. Method.—Pour the gin over the currants, and bruise the latter with a wooden spoon; let the whole stand for thirty-six hours, then put it in a flannel bag, and let the juice drop on the sugar. "When the latter is quite melted, pour the cordial into bottles, and cork tightly. A Wet Curry. Ingredients.—Some meat, fowl, or fish ; a piece of butter ; 2 or 3 onions; 1 tablespoonful of curry powder ; salt; a little water or broth. Method.—Cut the meat, fowl, or fish into small pieces ; put them, with the butter and onions sliced, into a stewpan; fry them till brown. When nearly done, add the curry powder and a little salt, and simmer the whole gently, with a little water or broth, until it is sufficiently cooked. Remember to keep constantly stirring. The Admiral’s Curry. Ingredients.—1 oz. of butter ; 4 onions; a few carrots and turnips ; some good veal stock ; 1 teaspoon- ful of curry powder ; 1 teaspoonful of curry paste ; 1 dessert-spoonful of chutnee ; some meat (any kind). Method.—Put the butter into a stewpan, and as soon as it is hot, slice into it the four onions and the carrots and turnips ; then brown over a sharp fire, and rub through a tammy. When done sufficiently, add some good veal stock to the sauce, the curry powder, paste, and chutnee. Mix all this well together with a wooden . spoon for about ten minutes; now put in whatever meat you choose— rabbit, fowl, or fish. Cut in rather small pieces ; stew over a smart fire, adding occasionally a little weak broth or milk, that the curry may not get too dry. Let all simmer together, and an excellent curry will be the result. Milk is considered a great improvement to curry, either sweet or butter-milk ; if the former is used, a little lemon- juice should be added to it. Custard Toast. Ingredients.—1 slice of bread ; 1 oz. of butter ; sugar to taste ; 1 egg ; | pint of milk. Method.—Toast the bread a light brown, and butter it on both sides. Make a custard of the remaining ingredients, and pour it over the toast. Serve at once. To Clarify Dripping. {For pastry, etc.) Heat the dripping over the fire or in the oven, and while quite hot pour it into a basin of cold water. When the dripping is cold, remove the sediment which will be found at the bottom, and put the dripping in jars for use. It will remain good for some time if kept in a cool place. To Clarify Fat. Take the fat of beef or mutton which you wish to clarify, cut into small pieces, and put into a sauce- pan ; cover with cold water, and stir till boiling, then skim care- fully. Let the fat now continue to boil quickly till all the water has gone off, when the liquid will be no longer white, but in ap- pearance like salad-oil. Strain the fat off into jars, where it will remain ready for use for any length of time.