104 PUDDINGS. Method.—Pare, core, and cut I tlie apples in slices, and put them into a saucepan, with a little | butter, to stew till soft. Spread them between nicely fried pan- cakes, sprinkle sugar over, and serve very hot. Apple and Rice Pudding. Ingredients.—4 oz. ground rice; 12 boiled apples; 4 eggs ; 2 oz. sugar; 1 oz. mixed peel; lemon for seasoning; paste. Method.—Boil the rice soft, with a little lemon-peel, and strain into a basin. Mix with it the pulp of the boiled apples, and beat together. Beat the eggs, and with the sliced candied peel add to the other ingredients. Line a basin with thin paste, put in the above mixture, and bake for about half an hour. Serve with sweet or wine sauce. Apricot Pudding. Ingredients. — \ pint grated bread-crumbs; yolks of 4 eggs and whites of 2; 1 wine-glassful of sherry ; 2 oz. sugar; 12 or 14 apricots ; puff-paste (see Pastry). Method. — Stew the apricots gently till rather soft, peel them, take out the stones, and put into a basin. Warm the cream, and in it soak the bread-crumbs till cold. Beat the egg-yolks and add them with the wine and sugar to the bread-crumbs. Mix these in- gredients with the apricots, add the whites of eggs, beat all together, and put in a pie-dish lined with paste. Bake for half an hour. In this and all fruit puddings the quantity of sugar used must depend on individual taste and the quality of the fruit. Boiled Apricot Pudding. Ingredients.—Some thin slices of bread and butter without crust; apricot jam ; custard. Method.—Well butter a basin and nearly fill it with thin slices of bread and butter, with a layer of jam between each slice. Pour over a well-seasoned custard, let it stand for a while before cooking, then steam or boil for one hour. Serve with wine-sauce. Aunt Nelly’s Pudding. Ingredients.—| lb. of flour ; £ lb. of suet; J lb. of treacle; the juice and rind (grated) of 1 lemon ; a few strips of candied lemon-peel (cut very small); 3 tablespoonfuls of cream; 2 eggs. Method.—Mince the suet finely and rub it well into the flour ; add the other dry ingredients, then the well-beaten eggs and the cream. Mix all thoroughly to- gether, and boil in a basin for four hours. Balloon Pudding. Ingredients.—2 eggs; 2 oz. of castor sugar; 2 oz. of flour; 2 tearpoonfuls of baking-powder ; a little milk. Method.—Mix the dry ingredi- ents ; add the eggs, well beaten, and a little milk. Bake twenty minutes, then cut the pudding in two and spread preserve between. Black-Cap Pudding. Ingredients. — Some currants ; 3 eggs ; 3 large tablespoonfuls of flour; 1 pint of new milk; a pinch of salt. Method. — Strew a buttered mould thickly with currants ; make a batter with the eggs, well beaten, the flour, milk, and salt; tie a cloth tightly over the basin,