119 SWEETS, ETC. of water, sugar, and minced rind. Boil all together until quite tender. Then pulp the apples through a sieve, and add more sugar, if required. Lay at the bottom of a dish in a thick layer. Stir together cream, milk, and eggs, with a little sugar, over the fire. Let the mixture thicken, but it must not reach boiling-point. When thick, take it off the fire, let it cool a little, and then pour it over the apples. Whip some more cream, with sugar, lemon-juice, etc., such as is always used for trifles, and heap it high over the custard. Apple Mdringue. Ingredients— 2 cupfuls of hot apple sauce, very smooth and good; 3 eggs ; ^ cupful of sugar ; 1 teaspoonful of butter; 1 tea- spoonful of corn-flour ; 1 teaspoon- ful of nutmeg and cinnamon mixed ; bitter almond flavouring ; 2 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Method.—Stew the apples until quite soft ; beat them smooth with a spoon ; add the sugar, nut- meg and cinnamon, and stir in the corn-flour rubbed into the butter ; boil the whole for one minute, then take it off the fire and pour gradually upon the yolks of the eggs, which have been previously whisked thick and smooth. Beat all together for two minutes, then turn into a buttered pudding-dish. Bake fifteen minutes in a quick oven ; draw to the oven-door and spread rapidly over the surface a meringue of the whites whipped stiff, and the powdered sugar, flavoured with bitter almonds. Shut up again and brown delicately. Serve cold, with or without cream. Arrowroot Blancmange Ingredients.—2 oz. of arrowroot; 1^- pint of milk ; sugar to taste ; a few drops of lemon flavouring; 1 tablespoonful of brandy. Method.—Put the arrowroot into a basin and mix it smooth with ^ pint of the cold milk. Boil the remainder of the milk and pour it over the arrowroot, stirring it all the time ; add the sugar and essence, and stir the whole (in a saucepan) over a clear fire until quite thick ; then add the brandy, and pour into a mould previously rinsed with cold water. When firm, turn out on a dish, and garnish with fruit or preserve. Or serve with boiled custard (which see) poured round it. Calfs-foot Jelly. Ingredients. — 4 calves’-feet ; 5 quarts water ; 4 lemons ; 1 pint of sherry ; 6 eggs ; white loaf sugar. Method.—Prepare, a day or two before wanted, a stock for the jelly, by boiling the calves’-f eet in the water till two-thirds have been wasted. Skim the stock, and measure off a quart ; set to cool, and skim again from all fat and sediment. When making the jelly, put this stock into a pan, sweeten- ing to taste, and flavouring with the juice of the lemons ; add also the sherry and beaten whites of the eggs. Break the shells of the eggs into the pan. Stir all together, then set on a clear fire without moving the jelly while it boils for a quarter of an hour. Then put in a little cold water, boil up, and leave on for five minutes. Put the pan away to cool for twenty minutes, skim thoroughly, pour the jelly into a flannel bag and strain. Repeat this process if not