53 MEATS. into a round shape, season with pepper and salt, and fry quickly (about eight minutes) in a little butter over a good fire. Turn them when you see the gravy bubble upon their surface. When done, arrange them neatly round mashed potatoes, on a dish. Pour a little gravy into the frying-pan, and add the above quantity of any good sauce preferred ; boil over the fire until the gravy is somewhat re- duced, then serve with a squeeze of lemon-juice, or a few fried mushrooms added to the sauce ; or, if liked, tomato sauce may be served with the fillets. Stewed Kidney (1). Ingredients.—2 tablespoonfuls of flour ; a little cold water ; sugar ; boiling water ; 1 ox kidney ; 1 large onion; 6 cloves; a small piece of butter or bacon-fat; pepper and salt; a little ketchup. Method.—Mix the flour smoothly with a little cold water; burn some sugar in an iron spoon, and over this, and on to the flour and water, pour enough boiling water to ex- tract the colour of the sugar and set the flour. Next, take the kid- ney, and, without dividing it, cut the hard core out of the centre; into this space put the onion stuffed with 6 cloves, also the small piece of butter or bacon-fat. Put the kidney into a stewpan, and pour over it the above mixture; cover closely, and stew gently for four hours. An hour before dish- ing it, add the seasoning and a little ketchup. Serve with mashed po- tatoes. This is an excellent and economical dish. Stewed Kidney (2). Ingredients.— 1 beef-kidney ; a little butter ; flour ; pepper and salt; boiling water ; 1 spoonful of ketchup. Method.— Wash and dry the kid- ney, having previously removed all the fat from the middle of it; cut it into slices, dredge them well with flour and pepper, and fry them in butter until nicely browned on both sides. Pour in a little boiling water, and stew very gently for two hours and a half or three hours Add the salt and ketchup about half an hour before dishing. Stewed Kidney and Calf’s Liver. Ingredients.—1 beef-kidney ; a little butter; flour ; pepper ; salt; boiling water ; f lb. of calf’s liver; a little ketchup. Method.—Prepare the kidney as directed in the preceding recipe. Wash, and wipe the liver very dry, slice it thinly, flour, pepper and salt it, and fry it a nice brown in butter ; then cut it into very small dice and add it to the kidney, pre- viously cut in the same way. Serve on a very hot dish, and garnish with sippets of crisp toast. Beef Olives. (An excellent Dish.) Ingredients.—2 lb. of rump-steak; 2 eggs ; some very finely grated bread-crumbs ; flour, pepper and salt ; a little ketchup. Method.—Place the steaks, which must be cut rather thin, on a meat- board, beat them slightly, cut them into seven or eight pieces, dip each piece in the eggs (already beaten), then into the bread-crumbs; season with pepper and salt, place a small lump of suet in the centre of each olive, roll up tightly, and bin^ round with thread, which should be cut ready in lengths about three