145 INVALID COOKERY. Fresh Almond-Milk. Ingredients. — 4 oz. of sweet almonds; 4 bitter almonds; 1 quart of milk; a spoonful of syrup, or some pounded sugar. Method. — Blanch the almonds and pound them exceedingly fine, then add the milk and the syrup or sugar. This is very good for _ a cough, and very serviceable in many inflammatory attacks. Apple Drink. Ingredients.—2 quarts of boiling water ; 2 tablespoonfuls of rice ; 6 apples. Method.—Peel, core, and slice the apples, and place them, with the rice, in the boiling water. Boil them for an hour, and then pass the liquor through a colander, pressing the rice and apples with a spoon, but not squeezing them through. The liquor may be sweetened, if desired, but is better without flavouring. To make Arrowroot. Ingredients.—2 teaspoonfuls of arrowroot (the best) ; a little cold water ; ± pint of boiling water ; sugar to taste. Method.—Put the arrowroot into a basin, and mix it by degrees, and very smoothly, with just suffi- cient cold water to allow the spoon to turn round in it. Have ready the ^ pint of quite boiling water, and pour it over the arrowroot, slowly at first, then more rapidly, stirring all the time. The result should be a perfectly clear jelly. Sweeten to taste, and add, if liked, a spoonful of brandy or sherry. Boiling milk may be substituted for the boiling water, but it is not so easily digested. Barley Water. Ingredients — 1 tablespoonful (or more, if required thicker) of pearl barley ; sugar to taste ; the juice of half a lemon ; 1 pint of boiling water. Method.—Wash the barley well ; add to it the sugar (or a little syrup) and the lemon-juice, then pour over the whole the pint of boiling water ; cover closely, and let it stand by the side of the fire, or on the stove, for three hours ; then strain the mixture, and let it cool. Beef Tea. ‘ In all cases where it can be taken, beef-tea,’ says a writer, ‘ should be slightly thickened, and especially when bread is refused. Boiled flour is best for this purpose; genuine arrowroot may also be used. The yolk of an egg beaten up in the broth cup, and the tea poured boiling on to it, is excel- lent. The meat from which beef- tea has been prepared will make good stock, or be very nice if pro- perly treated for the dinner of the family, who, be it remembered, have the chief of the nourishment in the fibre. It is important, in the preparation of beef-tea, to pre- serve the fine flavour of the meat, and to use such scrupulously clean vessels that do foreign taste can be imparted to it. The shin of beef should not be chosen for this purpose, for it gives more gelatine than juice; The best part is beef- steak or the neck ; the first will yield the most gravy, and does not cost above twopence per pound more than the coarser portions of the ox. The idea that beef-tea should be boiled a long time in order to extract all the goodness of 10