MEATS. 66 fill up the vacancy with veal stuf- fing ; bind the veal in a round form, and fasten it securely with skewers and tape. Roast before the fire, or bake in the oven. (See directions for ‘ Roasting’ and ‘Bak- ing.’) If roasted, serve with melted butter poured over it, and garnish with slices of lemon. If baked, place the veal on a hot dish, pour away some of the fat in the meat tin, stir in some melted butter, boil up over the fire, and serve in a tureen. Boiled ham, bacon, or pickled pork should always accompany roast veal. Melton Veal. Ingredients. — 3 lb. raw veal; 1-| lb. ham ; 6 hard-boiled eggs ; 1 oz. of butter ; parsley. Method.—Cut the veal and ham into small pieces ; cut the eggs into slices. Lay some of the slices in a deep brown pan or pudding-dish; shake in a little minced parsley; lay on this some of the veal and ham, with pepper and salt. Continue this till all the ingredients are used. Then add sufficient water to cover the whole ; mince the butter, and lay it on the top. Tie a buttered paper over the pan, and bake one hour or longer. Remove paper, press the mixture down with a spoon, lay on a plate with a weight over it. Let it remain another hour in the oven ; turn out on a dish when quite cold. Veal Pie. Ingredients. — The middle, or scrag, of a small neck of veal; pepper and salt; a few slices of ham or bacon ; some hard-boiled yolks of eggs; a little minced parsley and green onions; 2 spoon- fuls of veal stock ; puff-paste. (See ‘ Pastry.’) Method.—Cut the veal into nice pieces, and season with pepper and salt. Lay in the bottom of a pie- dish some slices of ham and bacon; then add the veal, the hard-boiled yolks, the minced parsley and onions, and last of all the stock. Cover with puff-paste and bake for about an hour and a half. The oven should be quick at first, to raise and cook the pastry; the heat should then be moderated. To prevent the crust becoming too brown put a piece of greased paper over it. Rolled Veal. Ingredients.—3 lb. of the breast of veal; 2 cz. of bacon, minced ; 1 slice of bread, grated; a little minced parsley; flour, butter, pepper, and salt; 1 egg ; 1 break- fast-cupful of water. Method. — Remove the bones from the veal. Make a stuffing of the bacon, bread-crumbs, parsley, pepper, salt, and egg, mixing all well together; spread it over the veal, which must then be rolled up tightly and bound firmly with tape. Make some butter very hot in a stewpan, put in the veal pre- viously rubbed over with flour, and when it is nicely browned all round add the cupful of water. Stew very gently for two hours. The bones can be added to enrich the gravy, or they can be used for soup. Shoulder of Veal. Remove the knuckles, and fill the space with stuffing, if desired ; roast or bake. (See directions.) If not stuffed, serve the veal with oyster or mushroom sauce, and garnish with sliced lemon.