113 PUDDINGS. currants (cleaned); or a few stoned raisins; the beaten yolks of 3 eggs and 1 white ; a little grated lemon-peel. Method— Mix all the above ingredients to a stiffish paste; roll it in flour, and with two spoons make into small balls; have ready a pan of fast-boiling water, and drop them in ; when done they will rise to the top. Quaker’s Pudding. Ingredients,— 6 oz. suet; 6 oz. bread-crumbs ; 6 oz. pounded loaf sugar ; 2 oz. currants ; rind of 1 small lemon, juice of two; 2 eggs. Method — Chop the suet finely, and put into a basin with the bread-crumbs, sugar, and cleaned currants; mix all well together. Beat the eggs well, stir into the dry ingredients, and flavour with the lemon. Put the pudding into a greased mould or basin, tie over it a floured cloth, and boil for two hours. Sweet sauce may be served with it. Raspberry Pudding. Ingredients. — Bread-crumbs ; raspberry jam; ^ teacupful of flour ; 2 eggs ; 1 pint of milk ; 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar ; flavour- ing of lemon or bitter almonds. Method, — Well butter a pie- dish and put into it a layer (a quarter of an inch thick) of bread- crumbs, cover this thickly with raspberry jam, then put another layer of crumbs. Make a custard of the remainder of the ingredi- ents and pour it gently on the pudding. Bake slowly until quite set. When cold, turn out on a glass dish, sprinkle castor sugar over, and serve. Rhubarb Pudding. Ingredients. — Suet-crust (see Pastry); rhubarb; peel of ^ lemon, grated ; a little sugar. Method.—Roll out the paste to about a quarter of an inch thick, line with it a well-buttered basin, reserving some paste for the lid ; wash, peel, and cut into small pieces enough rhubarb to fill the basin ; add the grated peel, and a very little sugar ; place the lid of paste on the top ; press the edges of the crust (previously wetted) firmly together; tie in a floured cloth, and boil for two hours, or longer, according to the size of the pudding. Baked Rhubarb and Custard Pudding. Ingredients.—1 pint of stewed rhubarb ; 1 pint of milk; 2 eggs ; | pint of bread-crumbs; 2 oz. sugar ; a little grated nutmeg. Method.—Put the stewed rhu- barb and the bread-crumbs in a basin and mix well together. Beat the eggs, stir in the milk and sugar, and add this cold custard to the rhubarb and bread-crumbs, mixing all well together. Butter a pie-dish, put in the mixture, smooth the top, and bake in a moderate oven till slightly browned, then take out the dish, grate a little nutmeg over the pudding, and put again in the oven till quite set. This is an excellent pudding for children, and any stewed fruit may be prepared in the same way. Rhubarb and Tapioca. Ingredients.—1 lb. of rhubarb ; \ lb. of tapioca ; £ teaspoonful of ground ginger; £ teaspoonfui 8