130 CAKES, SCONES, ETC. of ground ginger; 1 tesspoonful of carbonate of soda, dissolved in 1 tablespoonful of vinegar; f lb. of currants ; 2 eggs. Method.—Mix first the dry in- gredients ; then add the butter, slightly warmed and beaten up, and the eggs well whisked. Dis- solve the soda, and add it last of all: mix all well together. Place in a buttered tin, protect with paper, and put immediately into a quick oven, which may then be allowed to cool. Bake for one hour and three-quarters. A Good Plum Cake. Ingredients.—f lb. currants; § lb. flour; \ lb. butter; ^ lb. sugar; 6 eggs ; 3 oz. candied peel; a few almonds; ^ pint of cream. Method.—Rub the butter into the flour; and add the currants, sugar, minced candied peel, and finely cut almonds. Moisten this mixture with the eggs (well beaten) and the cream. Less cream may be used if the dough appears to be becoming too wet. Put the cake into a buttered tin ; set it before the fire to rise ; and then bake for one and a half to two hours, or till quite done. Devonshire Potato Cake. Ingredients.—6 oz. flour; 6 oz. well-boiled potatoes; £ lb. brown sugar ; ^ lb. currants ; 1 dessert- spoonful baking - powder ; ^ tea- spoonful carbonate of soda ; 1 teaspoonful mixed spice; a few caraway-seeds ; 2 eggs ; 2 oz. good beef dripping. Method.—Beat the potatoes till perfectly free from lumps ; then rub them into the flour; after- wards add the other dry ingre- dients, excepting the currants and seeds, and rub the dripping in with them. This should be thoroughly done. Put in the currants and caraways ; add the eggs, well beaten, and stir well with a fork or spoon. Put into a flat tin, well greased ; bake in a pretty quick oven for three-quarters of an hour, protecting the top if necessary with greased paper. Serve the cake hot, cut into squares. German Pound Cake. Ingredients.—| lb. butter; 10 oz. of flour ; \ lb. of sugar ; 4 eggs ; the grated rind of 1 lemon ; 2 oz. of chopped candied peel; 3 oz. of currants (washed and dried) ; \ lb. of sultana raisins (stoned). Method.—Put the butter into a basin (a large one), and beat it to a cream; then mix in well a spoon- ful of flour, a spoonful of sugar, and a well-beaten egg. Proceed in this way until all the flour, sugar, and eggs are thoroughly blended together. Add the other ingre- dients, and put the mixture into a well-greased cake-tin lined with buttered paper. Bake in a mode- rate oven for about two hours. The currants and raisins may be omitted. Quality Cake. Ingredients.—2 eggs, their weight in flour, pounded loaf-sugar, and butter; \ teaspoonful of lemon essence; and a few caraway-seeds. Method.—Mix butter, sugar, and flour; then add eggs well beaten, essence, and seeds. Line a tin with paper buttered on both sides, and standing up above the edge of the tin; then pour in the mixture, and bake for one hour. Queen Cakes. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour; 1 lb. of butter; 1 lb. of castor-sugar; £ lb. of currants; 8 eggs; a little nutmeg and cinnamon.