MEATS. 54 quarters of a yard. Place the olives in a stewpan in which some suet has previously been melted, dredge a little flour lightly over them, and fry them a rich brown all round ; pour over sufficient boiling water to cover them, and add the ketchup. Stew very gently for two and a half or three hours. Remove the threads, and serve. Stewed Ox-Cheek. Ingredients.—1 ox-cheek ; 3 or 4 carrots; 2 turnips ; 3 onions ; 1 head of celery; a bunch of sweet herbs; pepper and salt; 2 quarts of water ; | lb. of flour. Method.—Soak the ox-cheek in water for several hours, and wash it thoroughly; cut it into neat pieces ; put them into a stewpan with the above proportion of water; add the vegetable (cut up), herbs, and seasoning, and simmer very gently for four or five hours, until quite tender. Make a thickening of the flour, which stir into the gravy ; cook well, then strain over the ox-cheek, previously placed on a hot dish. Use the bones for soup. Boiled Ox-Tongue. Ingredients.—1 ox-tongue (fresh from the pickle) ; cold water. Method.—Choose a tongue with a nice smooth skin, and having soaked it in plenty of water for three or four hours, put it into a sauce- pan with enough cold water to well cover it; bring gradually to the boil, skim well, then simmer gently from four to six hours according to size. When quite tender, re- move the skin, trim the fat, and cut off the rough part of the root. To straighten the tongue, fasten it down to a piece of board by sticking a fork through the root, and another through the top. When cold, put a paper frill round the root, and garnish with parsley. If the tongue is a dried one, and rather hard, soak it over-night in water. Potted Beef. Ingredients.—Pieces of roast or boiled beef, cold ; 6 oz. of butter ; cayenne; pounded mace. Method.—Cut the meat into small pieces, and beat it well in a mortar, with some butter. Season with cayenne and mace, mix together well, and put into proper jars. A layer of clarified butter or lard should be put over the potted meat. Rolled Ribs of Beef. Having boned and rolled the meat, fasten it securely with wooden skewers, and either roast it before a clear fire, or bake it in the oven. (See directions for ‘ Roasting ’ and ‘ Baking.’) Allow rather more than a quarter of an hour to the pound. Serve with gravy and horse-radish sauce. For a small family, one or two ribs would be sufficient. The bones should be made into stock. To Fry Rump-Steak. Ingredients.—A good beef-steak; butter or dripping. Method.—Cut the steak rather, but not too thick. Put a small piece of butter or dripping into a frying-pan, and, when hot, put in the steak. Fry for about ten minutes, turning the steak fre- quently to avoid burning. Place the steak, when done, on a very hot dish, and serve with its own gravy, to which may be added a little butter and ketchup. Season all with pepper and salt to taste. Stewed Steak with Onions. (Scotch Recipe.) Ingredients.—2 lb. of tender steak ; 2 Spanish onions; £ slice of