MISCELLANEOUS. 160 refreshing and wholesome ; but, when taken too frequently, or too strong, or too hot, it is very in- jurious. How to Make Toast. It may, at first sight, seem un- necessary to give this information; but, as a matter of fact, few per- sons, certainly few servants, know how to make toast properly. As a rule, it is either sodden or dried up—dried up because done too quickly, sodden because laid down on its side when finished. If a slice is done too quickly, the heat does not penetrate into it, but simply scorches the outside ; whilst if it is laid on its side, the steam from it prevents its becoming crisp. Now, the right mode of making toast is as follows :—In the first place, let the bread used be stale, and let it be cut thin, the edging being taken away. Then see that the fire is hot and clear, and that the bars of the fireplace are clean. Next, taking up a slice of the bread, put it for a minute close to the fire, by way of warming it merely. Do this to both sides. Then hold the slice a little way from the fire, and move it about gently till it acquires a very pale brown colour. Then turn the slice, and do ditto with the other side. By this means the water is drawn out of the bread, and it changes from indigestible dough to.digest- ible farina. As soon as each slice is done, put it in a toast-rack to cool, or, if you do not possess a toast-rack, lean the first slice up against some article on the table, and then, when the slices are done, let them lean against and support each other. They will thus become crisp. Toast should, when pos- sible, be eaten as soon as made ; when kept beyond a certain time, it becomes tough and indigestible. Hot Buttered Toast. The loaf from which the bread is cut should be a tinned one, two days old. The slices should be evenly cut, and fully half an inch thick. The process of toasting should be slowly and carefully carried out before a bright clear fire. On no account must any portion of the surface be burned ; the whole should be a beautiful brown on both sides, and while still hot the slice is to be placed on a plate, and the butter, fresh and sweet, laid thickly on, the surface being pierced here and there with the knife to let it penetrate, as it melts ; the crust of the slice should at the same time be broken with the handle of the knife to render it toothsome. A sprinkling of finely powdered salt should be dusted over all, and the toast is then ready for the table. Memo, to serve hot.—Dr. Gordon Stables. To Mull Wine. Ingredients.—20 cloves ; 1 bottle of port wine ; 3 eggs ; nutmeg. Method.—Pound the cloves very finely in a mortar ; boil them in a pint of water for twenty minutes, strain through muslin, then add the bottle of port wine ; set it on the fire until quite hot, beat in the three eggs, and pour the whole quickly into a bowl. Serve in a jug, with grated nutmeg on the top. Elder Wine. Ingredients.—1 peck of elder- berries to every 3 gallons of water ; to every gallon of juice 3 lb. of sugar, 1 lb, of raisins, £ oz. of