70 POULTRY AND GAME. pouring over the meat enough of the gravy in which it has been stewed to fill the dish about three- parts full. Cover with crust, and hake for about one hour in a hot oven. Roast Goose. Ingredients.—1 goose ; sage-and- onion stuffing (see ‘Forcemeat, etc.’) ; some good gravy. Method.—Having picked, drawn, and trussed the goose for roasting, carefully remove, by singeing, any long hairs that may remain on the bird. Well wipe the inside, and fill it with the above stuffing; fasten it securely at both ends by drawing the rump through a hole made in the skin, and tying a string round the stem of the neck, which has previously been cut off close to the body. Hang it before a hot, clear fire, and roast from one hour and a half to two hours, basting continually. Send to table as hot as possible, with a tureen of strong beef gravy and another of apple- sauce. Mashed turnips should always accompany roast goose or roast duck, as they tend to correct the strong flavour of these birds. Ducks may be stuffed and roasted in the same way. Roast Grouse. Ingredients.—Grouse ; a few slices of bacon ; vine-leaves ; butter. Method.— Having prepared the grouse, like fowl, for roasting, cover them with thin slices of bacon, and as many vine-leaves, which tie on with coarse thread. Roast them before a nice clear fire for half an hour or forty minutes, basting con- stantly with butter. Serve with gravy, bread-sauce, and browned crumbs. If preferred, they may be placed on toasted bread, and melted butter poured over them. Jugged Hare. Ingredients.—1 hare; 1 lb. beef- steak; lb. of butter, or good beef- dripping ; 2 onions ; 1 lemon ; \ pint of port wine ; 8 cloves ; 6 whole allspice; pepper and salt; a little cayenne; forcemeat balls (see ‘ Forcemeat ’ etc.); bunch of sweet herbs. Method—Paunch, wash and cut up the hare into pieces, dredge them with flour, and fry in butter or dripping. Put them into a stewpan with the beef, herbs, onions, cloves, allspice, pepper, salt, and the lemon peeled and cut in two ; cover with hot water, and when it boils care- fully remove the scum; let it sim- mer gently until quite tender,which will be in about three hours. Take out the hare, beef, and forcemeat balls (added ^ hour previously) ; thicken the gravy with flour and butter, pour in the port wine, and let the whole simmer for fif- teen minutes ; then strain, and add to the hare, etc. ; serve with red- currant jelly. Hashed Hare. Ingredients.— Remains of cold hare and stuffing ; pint of good beef-gravy; forcemeat-balls. (See ‘ Forcemeat,’ etc.) Method.—Put the ^ pint of gravy into a stewpan until it boils. Then add the cold hare and stuffing ; cover closely, and keep to boiling- point. Do not let it boil. Make the forcemeat into balls; fry brown in a pan of lard. The liver, if fresh enough, may be boiled for five minutes, minced, and added to the forcemeat. When the hare is quite hot, garnish it with the force- meat-balls, Add a spoonful of