156 MISCELLANEOUS. Peppermint Cordial. Ingredients.—1 gallon of water ; A\ lb. of loaf sugar ; 2 drachms of the best oil of peppermint ; 1 pint of gin. Method. — Boil the water and sugar together for twenty minutes; let it stand till nearly cold, then add the oil of peppermint and gin. Mix all together. When quite cold, pour into bottles and tightly cork. This cordial will keep for any length of time. Potato-crust for Beef-pie. (American Recipe.) Ingredients. — 1 cupful of cold mashed potatoes ; 1 tablespoonful melted butter ; 1 tablespoonful of clean beef-dripping ; the yolk of 1 egg (beaten light) ; 2 tablespoon- fuls of prepared flour ; salt to taste ; 1 cupful of milk. Method. — Beat the butter and dripping into the potato, and then the egg, salt, and milk; then, when all are light, the flour. There should be just enough of the last to hold the paste together. Roll out tolerably thick, handling it carefully, and spread over the pie. Potato Salad. Ingredients. — 2 cupfuls of mashed potato (rubbed through a colander) ; f cupful of firm white cabbage (chopped fine) ; 2 table- spoonfuls of cucumber or gherkin pickle (also chopped) ; yolk of a hard boiled egg (pounded to powder) ; all to be mixed well together. Dressing. — 1 raw egg (beaten light); 1 saltspoonful of celery- seed ; 1 teaspoonful of sugar ; 1 tablespoonful of melted butter; 1 teaspoonful of flour ; ^ cupful of vinegar; salt and pepper. Method.—Heat the vinegar to boiling, and stir into it the beaten egg, sugar, butter, and seasoning. Wet the flour with cold vinegar, and add to the above. Cook the mixture, stirring constantly, until it thickens, and then pour scalding hot upon the salad. Toss up with a silver fork, and let the whole get perfectly cold before eating. Oatmeal Porridge. Ingredients.—6 oz. of medium Scotch oatmeal ; 1 pint of cold water ; 1 pint of boiling water ; salt to taste. Method.—Put the meal into a saucepan with the cold water, and add the boiling water and salt ; stir the whole over the fire until it boils, then let it simmer gently on the side of the stove for about three quarters of an hour; stir frequently to prevent the porridge sticking to the bottom of the pan and so getting an unpleasant singed taste. Should it become too thick, more boiling water must be added. When done, pour out into soup plates, and serve with milk, cream, sugar, or syrup, according to taste. For invalids, or dyspeptics, porridge is the better for being well boiled. If made in a double saucepan (which is best), two hours is not too long to boil it. It should be frequently stirred while cooking. Raspberry Vinegar. Ingredients.—2 quarts ripe rasp berries (freshly gathered); suffi- cient best white vinegar to cover the fruit; to every pint of juice allow 1 lb. of loaf sugar. Method. — Put the raspberries into a large jar and pour the vinegar over then. Cover closely, and let them remain in a cool