‘ TOOTHSOME DISHES!—ADDITIONAL RECIPES, ETC. blanc-mange, but all milk in place of the cream answers very well. Bird’s Custard Powder Provides not onlydelicious custard, but an endless variety of delight- ful dainty dishes. Bird’s custard advantageously takes the place of cream with fresh, stewed, or tinned fruit. It is used by all the leading Diplomees of the South Kensington School of Cookery. Hugon’s Refined Beef Suet (‘ Atora’). A supply of good fresh Beef Suet is one of the most important necessaries of the housewife, but, nevertheless, a thing not always to be obtained ; an article, how- ever, has been introduced by Messrs. Hugon and Co., Limited, Pendleton, Manchester, which supplies this want, and at the same time possesses great advant- ages over the raw suet. Hugon’s Refined Beef Suet is fresh English Beef Suet, which the manufacturers submit to a special refining process, the result of which is to produce an article entirely free from tissue, water, and all impurities. Stood in a cool, dry place, it will remain fresh and sweet for an almost indefinite time, thus being always at hand when required. It replaces cooking butter and lard for all purposes, so that only one article is necessary in the store-cupboard instead of three ; and it is more economical than raw suet, since only half to two- thirds as much is required ; also it can be used to the last scrap. No less remarkable are its time- and-labour-saving qualities, since, instead of the troublesome chop- ping, it can be flaked with a knife with great facility. Blending thoroughly with the flour, a digestible and wholesome pudding is the result, whereas raw suet bound up by the cellular tissue remains in lumps throughout the paste, causing the pudding to be indigestible. Nye’s Mincer. For mincing meat or vegetables Nye’s Patent Small Mincer or Masticator will be found useful. It is well recommended, and the maker claims that the food, whether cooked or uncooked, hot or cold, is rapidly and thoroughly minced, and when required may be kept hot during the process by previously immersing the machine in warm water. Also, that all gristle and sinew is prevented from mixing with the minced meat. Nixey’s Black Lead. Stoves can be best got into con- dition by using W. G. Nixey’s Eggshell Enamel Berlin Black, which dries perfectly in a few minutes, and produces a rich sur- face of uniform black unaffected by heat or damp, and upon this Nixey’s Celebrated Refined Black Lead, as used in the Royal house- holds, quickly develops a perfect polish, rich in quality, and un- equalled by any other brand, while it preserves the stove from rust and lasts a long while.