CAKES, SCONES, ETC. 137 milk and water to moisten it well —about a pint should be enough. Make into two loaves, place them in tins dredged with flour, smooth them on the top, and bake for about three-quarters of an hour, or an hour, until done. Chestnut Biscuits. (German.) Ingredients. — 3 oz. of boiled chestnuts; 2 oz. of sugar; 2 oz. of flour; 3 eggs. Method. — Pound the chestnuts (previously peeled and skinned) in a mortar ; and add to them the sugar, flour, and 2 of the eggs, well beaten. Knead all thoroughly to- gether; roll out into a thin paste, and cut into little cakes of various shapes. Brush them over with egg, and bake on a buttered tin. Cocoa-Nut Pyramids. 1 lb. grated cocoa-nut; § lb. sifted loaf - sugar ; whites of 2 eggs. Beat the whites well; add other ingredients ; pour in pyramid shapes on to buttered wafer-paper. Bake in slow oven until of a pale cream-colour. Ginger Nuts. Ingredients.—4 oz. of butter ; 1 lb. of flour; 8 teaspoonfuls of ground ginger ; £ lb. of brown sugar ; a large pinch of carbon- ate of soda ; 4 tablespoonfuls of treacle. Method.—Rub the butter into the flour ; add the ginger, sugar, and soda ; and mix the whole to- gether with the treacle into a stiff paste. Having floured your hands, form the paste into little flat nuts; place them on a floured tin, and bake for about a quarter of an hour in a moderate oven. Hard Biscuits. Ingredients.—2 lb. of flour ; 4 oz. of butter; about 1 pint of skimmed milk. Method. — Put the butter and milk into a saucepan on the stove. "When the butter is dissolved, mix with the flour into a stiff paste, adding more flour if necessary. Beat the dough until perfectly smooth, then roll it out thin, cut into round biscuits, prick them well, and bake for about ten minutes. These biscuits are nice with cheese. Plain Crisp Biscuits. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour; the yolk of 1 egg ; milk. Method.—Mix the flour with the yolk of the egg and some milk into a stiff paste, beat it well, work it till quite smooth, roll very thin, and cut into biscuits. Bake in a slow oven till dry and crisp. Rice Biscuits. Ingredients.—\ lb. of butter; \ lb. of sifted sugar; the yolks of 4 eggs 5 4 lb. of flour; £ lb. of ground-rice. Method.—Beat the butter to a cream; add the sugar and yolks; work well together ; then mix in the flour and ground-rice. Place in buttered tins, and bake for about ten minutes in a moderate oven.