MEATS. 50 suet; 1 small teaspoonful of baking-powder; cold water. Method.—Cut up the meat and vegetables into small pieces, season with pepper and salt, and put them into a large saucepan. Simmer gently by the side of the fire. Make a stiff paste with the re- maining ingredients; roll it out to the size of the saucepan; place it over the meat, and cook the whole slowly for two and a half or three hours. When done, put the meat and vegetables on a hot dish, and place the crust on them. Sirloin of Beef. Have the sirloin cut if possible from the chump-end, as a second dish, a very excellent one, can be made out of the under-cut or fillet. (See ‘Fillets de Bceuf.’) This, the primest joint, can be either roasted or baked (see ‘ Directions for Roasting and Baking’), allow- ing twenty minutes to the pound. Garnish with horse - radish, and serve with Yorkshire Pudding (which see). Beef Steak Pie. Ingredients.—2 or 3 lb. of tender rump-steak ; pepper ; salt; flour ; water; paste. (See ‘ Pastry.’) Method.—Trim the steak, beat and score it slightly, and cut it into thin slices. Put a cup upside down in the centre of a pie-dish ; arrange a layer of the steak round it ; add some small pieces of fat; sprinkle with flour, pepper, and salt ; then add another layer of meat. Proceed in this way until the dish is full, when pour in suffi- cient water to make the gravy. Line the edge of the dish with paste, wet it, and lay on the cover, pressing the edges lightly together, and trimming evenly all round. Make a hole in the top of the crust to allow the gases to escape ; decorate the pie with leaves, brush over with beaten egg, and bake for about two hours. Care must be taken that the crust does not get too brown before the meat is suffi- ciently cooked. A good plan is to half cook the meat before covering it with the paste. The meat should then be allowed to get cold before the pie is made. Beef-kidney, or a few mutton- kidneys, may be added to the pie with advantage. Beef Steak and Kidney Pudding. Ingredients.—Suet paste (which see) ; 1 lb. tender rump-steak ; 1 beef-kidney ; salt and pepper to taste; water. Method.—Line a pudding-basin (having a thick rim, if possible) with the paste, leaving an inch or two over the edge. Beat the steak, and cut it and the kidney (pre- viously well wiped) into small pieces, which pepper and salt, and place in alternate layers in the basin until it is full. Then pour in sufficient water to more than half fill the dish. Cover the whole with crust, moisten the edges well, and turn up the overlapping paste, and press it firmly down over the other. Scald and flour a cloth, tie it over the pudding, and boil for four hours. As the water reduces, add more ; but let it be hot, as the pudding must be kept boiling. On removing the cloth, cut a small round piece out of the top of the crust, to allow the steam to escape. Serve in the basin with a napkin arranged neatly round it. Beef Steak & la Parisienne. Ingredients. — Piece of tender