118 SWEETS, ETC. glass of madeira or sherry. Arrange the apples in a dish, and pour the sauce over. Apples and Custard. Ingredients. — 2 lb. of large apples ; 6 oz. of white sugar ; rind of £ lemon; \ pint of water ; 1 pint boiled custard (which see) ; a few sweet almonds. Method.—Peel, halve, and core the apples, and add them, with the lemon rind, to the sugar and water previously boiled for five minutes. Simmer gently until tender, being careful not to allow the apples to break, if possible. When done, place them neatly in the centre of a crystal dish ; pour a little of the juice over them, and the boiled custard round them. Blanch the almonds, cut them in halves, and stick them thickly all over the fruit. This makes a pretty and effective dish. Custard - powder may be used instead of eggs. Apple Fritters. Ingredients. — 2 eggs ; \ pint milk ; £ lb. flour ; apples. Method. — Make a batter with the eggs, milk, and flour. Peel the apples whole, cut in rather round slices, and stamp out the core with a cutter. Dip the slices into the batter, and fry in boiling lard or dripping. Drain on a hot dish, covered with blotting-paper, laying each piece by itself. Serve very hot, with powdered sugar. The flavour of the apples is im- proved if they are laid in a little sherry, mixed with sugar, for two or three hours. The batter should be made a few hours before use. Apple Jelly. Ingredients.—\ package of gela- tine ; 1 large cupful of sugar; 6 large, finely flavoured juicy apples; 1 lemon, the juice and half the grated rind ; a good pinch of cin- namon ; 1 cupful of cold water. Method.—Peel, core, and slice the apples into very cold water. Be- fore they can change colour, pack them closely in a glass or stone jar, with just sufficient water 'to cover them ; put on a loose lid, that the steam may not crack the jar, set in cold water almost up to the neck, bring to a boil, and cook until the apples are clear and very tender. Soak the gelatine for two hours in a cupful of cold water, add the lemon juice and peel, sugar and cinnamon. Strain and squeeze the apples over them, boiling hot ; stir to dissolve the gelatine, and pour into a three-fold thickness of flannel. Let it drip slowly, with- out pressing or shaking, and put into a wet mould. Serve with milk, cream, or cold boiled cus- tard. Apple Snow. Ingredients.—6 apples ; whites of 2 eggs ; 3 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Method. — Peel and grate the apples into the whites of the eggs which have previously been whipped to a stiff froth. Beat in the sugar lightly, and set in a cold place until wanted. Eat with crackers or cake. Apple Trifle. Ingredients. — 10 large apples ; rind of \ lemon ; 6 oz. pounded sugar ; \ pint milk ; £ pint whipped cream; 2 beaten eggs ; some whipped cream. Method.—Peel, core, and cut the apples into slices ; put them into a saucepan with 2 tablespoonfuls