MEATS. 57 thickened with a little flour, if required. Serve on a large dish. Leg of Lamb. This may be roasted, baked, or boiled, as preferred. (See direc- tions.) If roasted, serve with mint sauce ; if boiled, serve Avith ' maitre d’hotel sauce. (See ‘ Sauces.’) Loin of Lamb, Braised. Ingredients.—Loin of lamb ; a few carrots and green onions ; 9 or 10 slices of fat bacon ; 1 pint of stock ; salt; pounded mace ; sweet herbs. Method.—Take the bones from the lamb, and after laying two or three slices of bacon at the bottom of a stewpan of convenient size, put the meat on the bacon. Take the rest of the bacon, and arrange it round and over the lamb, pour the stock into the pan, Avith a few herbs and vegetables, and sufficient seasoning, and simmer slowly for two hours ; take out the meat and dry it ; bring the gravy to a glaze (see ‘ Glaze ’), and with it glaze the lamb. Serve with boiled green peas. Boned Quarter of Lamb. Ingredients.—Quarter of lamb ; for stuffing : some lean bacon, suet, rind of £ lemon, minced parsley, sweet herbs, salt, cayenne, pounded mace, bread-crumbs, egg ; melted butter. Method.—Remove the bone from the lamb, fill the space with stuff- ing made with the above ingredi- ents ; roll the meat round, bind with tape, and either roast or bake, as preferred. (See directions.) Serve with melted butter in a tureen. I Shoulder of Lamb. This may be roasted or baked, as preferred. (See directions.) Serve with mint sauce. The saddle and loin of lamb may be cooked in the same way. Care must be taken that the latter does not bum ; baste constantly. Ragout of Lamb—Sweetbreads. Ingredients. — Sweetbreads (enough for a dish) ; gravy ; pepper and salt; flour ; 2 eggs ; J pint of cream (or milk) ; 1 dessert-spoonful of parsley ; nutmeg. Method. — Whiten the sweet- breads with boiling water, and put them into a pan with sufficient gravy to stew them. Season the gravy with pepper and salt, add the flour and butter. Beat the eggs well, and stir into them the cream, parsley, and a little nutmeg or other seasoning. Take the pan off the fire, and stir the eggs, etc., into the gravy, place the whole over the fire until thoroughly hot, but do not let it boil. Vegetables cut small and partly boiled may be put into this dish with the gravy. Sweetbreads of Lamb. (Suitable for Entree.) Ingredients.—3 sweetbreads ; 2 eggs ; 1 breakfast-cupful of stock; 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cream; 6 small onions ; pepper, salt, and pounded mace to taste, butter and flour ; a little minced parsley. Method.—After soaking in rather warm water, put the sweetbreads into enough boiling water to cover them, and put them at the side of the fire to simmer for twelve minutes ; they may then be taken out and placed in cold water. Put into a stewpan a little butter and flour brown in it the onions, and