90 PICKLES. Pickled Eschalots. Make according to directions for pickled onions (which see), boiling the eschalots only two minutes in the vinegar. Mixed Pickle. Ingredients.—2 quarts of vinegar; 2 oz. of bruised ginger ; 2 oz. of mustard ; 2 oz. of salt; 1 oz. of mustard-seed ; f oz. of turmeric ; ^ oz. of ground black pepper ; £ oz. of cayenne ; cauliflowers ; onions ; celery; cucumbers (sliced); gherkins; French beans ; nasturtiums ; capsi- cums. Method.—Place the vinegar (ex- cept so much of it as is required to moisten certain of the ingredients) in a jar, of which the lid fits tightly. Put the mustard, turmeric, pepper, and cayenne into a basin; mix them together with vinegar, and stir well till the lumps disappear; add all the ingredients (except the vege- tables) to the vinegar in the jar, and stir well. May or June is the best month for making this pickle- liquor, which must be kept in a warm place and stirred every morn- ing for a month with a wooden spoon. Then, as the vegetables come into season, gather them on a dry day, wipe them with a cloth, and put them into the liquor— breaking up the cauliflower into small bunches. At the end of the season, store the pickle in smaller jars, covering them over with bladder. In this state (not having been boiled) the pickle must be kept for twelve months, when it will be fit for eating. Pickled Nasturtium Seeds. Ingredients.—2 pints of the best white vinegar ; oz. of salt; nas- turtium seeds. Method.—Boil the vinegar with the salt, pour it into a jar, and allow it to go cold. Throw into this, from day to day, the nastur- tium seeds, which must be gathered when quite young. When the jar is full, cork tightly, tie bladder over the cork, and store. In making sauce, this is an excellent substitute for capers. Pickled Onions. Ingredients.—2 pints of Reading onions ; 2 pints of the best white vinegar ; 2 teaspoonfuls of salt; 1 oz. of whole white pepper. Method.—Procure the onions just after they are harvested ; peel them carefully, and throw them into the boiling vinegar (previously skimmed), to which the salt and whole pepper have been added. Simmer them for three or four minutes until they look clear, put them into glass jars, pour the pickle over them, and, when quite cold, cover with skin or two folds of thick paper. Pickled Walnuts. Ingredients.—100 green walnuts; for brine to cover them, allow 6 oz. of salt to 1 quart of water ; 2 quarts of vinegar ; 1 teaspoonful of salt; 2 oz. whole black pepper ; 3 oz. of bruised ginger ; 3 blades of mace ; ^ oz. of cloves ; 4 small onions ; 2 oz. of mustard-seed. Method.—Choose green walnuts which have been gathered before the shell has begun to form ; if a strong needle can pierce them easily, they are in a proper state for pick- ling, not otherwise. Make a strong brine to cover them with the above proportions of salt and water, and carefully take off the scum as it rises. When cold, throw in the walnuts, and stir them night and morning with a wooden spoon;