CAKESi SCONES, ETC. 132 of flour ; i oz. of caraway-seeds ; 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder ; a little milk. Method.—Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs well beaten, stir in the flour, seeds, and baking-powder, and mix with suffi- cient milk to make the whole into a stiff dough. Knead well, roll out, and cut into little round cakes. Bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Sfnging Hinnies. (Tea Cakes.) Ingredients.—1 lb. of fine flour ; 1 breakfast-cupful of cornflour; 8 oz. of butter ; 1 egg ; 1 teaspoon- ful of lemon-juice, or a few drops of essence of lemon ; a little salt; If gill of cold water. Method.—Rub half the butter into the flour, add the salt, the essence, the egg well beaten, and the water. Mix all well together, and roll out into a paste. Place a third of the remaining butter in the centre, dredge it with flour, fold the dough over it, and roll out again. Do this three times, until all the butter is used. Cut into round cakes about half an inch thick, and bake, till a light brown, in a moderate oven. When done, split and butter them. Pile several together on a muffin-dish, and serve very hot. Sponge Cake. Ingredients. — 1 teacupful of flour ; 1 teacupful of sugar ; 3 eggs ; 1 teaspoonful of carbonate of soda ; 1 teaspoonful of tartaric acid. Method.—Beat the eggs well, mix all the ingredients together, place in a tin lined with buttered paper, and bake immediately in a quick oven. (See ‘ Cake Pudding.’) Tea Cakes. Ingredients. — 2 lb. of flour; If lb. of sugar ; 6 oz. of butter or lard; 5 teaspoonfuls of baking- powder ; 2 eggs ; and a little milk. Method.—Rub the butter or lard well into the flour, add the sugar and baking-powder, then moisten with the eggs well beaten, and a little milk. Make into nice round cakes, place them on greased paper, and bake in a hot oven, on the shelf, for about twenty minutes. When done, cut them open at once and butter them, and serve very hot. Tipsy Cake. Ingredients. — 10 oz. of flour ; If lb. of currants ; \ lb. of butter ; f lb. (and a dessert-spoonful over) of coarse brown sugar ; f lb. of citron ; 5 eggs ; rather less than a wine-glassful of brandy. Method. — Wash and dry the currants thoroughly, and mix them in a basin with the flour. Beat the butter to a cream, and add f lb. of the sugar, drop the eggs into this, one by one, then stir in, very gradually, the flour and currants. Next add a portion of the citron, cut into small pieces. Last of all, burn about a dessert-spoonful of the brown sugar, melt it in the brandy, pour into the cake, and mix all well together. Ornament the top of the cake with the re- mainder of the citron, and bake from one hour and a half to two hours in a moderate oven Wedding Cake. Ingredients.—2 lb. best sultanas ; 3 lb. currants ; If lb. powdered white sugar ; 12 eggs ; If lb. fresh butter ; If lb. flour ; 1 gill noyeau; 1 tablespoonful orange-flower water; 1 lb. candied peel.