136 CAKES; SCONES, ETC. rolls on it, leaving two inches space between each one. Let them re- main about an hour in a warm place ta rise ; then brush them over with the whites of the eggs beaten up with a dessert-spoonful of sugar ; sprinkle over the whole finely minced almonds, and bake a very pale brown in a moderate oven. Vienna Rolls. Ingredients.—1 quart of flour; 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder ; 1 tablespoonful of lard; 1 teaspoon- ful of salt; and barely 1 pint of milk. Method.—Mix together the flour, salt, and powder; rub in the lard; add the milk, and mix into a smooth dough in the basin ; turn it out on a floured board; give it a quick knead or two ; roll out to the thickness of half an inch; cut out with a large round cutter; fold one half partly over the other; lay them on a hot greased tin ; brush lightly over with milk to glaze ; and bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. Wheat-Meal Scones. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour; 2 oz. of butter; 1 teaspoonful of castor- sugar ; 1 teaspoonful of baking- powder ; a pinch or two of salt; a little lukewarm milk. Method.—Rub the butter into the flour; add the powder, sugar, and salt; mix with the milk into a stiff paste; roll out, and cut with a tumbler into rounds. Bake in a moderate oven. When done, cut open and butter. They are very nice toasted next day, or eaten cold. They can be made with fine oatmeal if preferred, and are ex- ceedingly good. Very Good Bread. Ingredients.—7 lb. of flour ; 2 eggs; pint of fresh German yeast; lukewarm milk ; salt. Method.—Mix the flour, eggs, and yeast with enough lukewarm milk to make the whole into a rather thin dough ; set it in a warm place to rise for two hours ; sift over it some fine salt ; work enough flour into it to make the dough of a proper consistency ; make into loaves, and bake in a quick oven. Another Good Bread. Ingredients.—1 gallon of the best flour ; 1 quart of lukewarm milk and water (mixed) ; \ teacupful of yeast; 1 large teaspoonful of fine salt. Method.—Mix the salt with the flour ; make a hole in the centre, and pour into it the yeast, dissolved in the lukewarm milk and water ; stir all well up with a wooden spoon ; and set it in a warm place to rise for about two or three hours. When sufficiently risen, work it up lightly, and let it re- main two minutes before you put it in the oven. Bake for about an hour and a half A good plain loaf may be made with \ peck of best seconds flour, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 3 tablespoonful of yeast, and 1^ pint of water. Excellent Brown Bread. Ingredients.—2 lb. of wheaten meal ; lb. of common flour ; 1 teaspoonful of salt ; 2 small tea- spoonfuls of carbonate of soda ; \ teaspoonful of tartaric acid ; 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar; 2 teaspoon- fuls of butter ; milk and water. Method.—Mix all the dry in- gredients well together in a basin ; rub in the butter, and work the whole into a dough, with sufficient