SAUCES. BO a little spinach may be chopped finely and put into the butter. Celery-seed can be used in the same way to flavour soups, etc. Sauce Piquante. Ingredients.—1 large spoonful of mustard and 1 of sugar; a few drops of olive-oil; 1 tablespoonful of shalot or tarragon vinegar, or half a spoonful of each; 1 of ketchup; and 2 of Harvey Sauce. Method.—Work the mustard and sugar smoothly together with a few drops of olive-oil; then add, by degrees, the other ingredients. A Good Pudding Sauce. Ingredients.—\ pint of milk or cream; a little whole cinnamon; some lemon-peel; 1 bay-leaf; brown sugar to taste; the yolks of 3 eggs; a little ground-rice; 1 glass of madeira or sherry. Method.—Boil the milk or cream with the cinnamon, lemon-peel, bay-leaf, and sugar for a quarter of an hour. When cold, add to it the yolks of the three eggs. Put it on the fire again, but do not let it boil. Two minutes before you take it off, thicken it with a little ground rice, and add the glass of madeira or sherry. This is a good sauce for all puddings that require one. Salad Sauce. Ingredients.—The yolk of 1 hard- boiled egg ; 1 raw egg ; a little water; 1 teaspoonful of salt; \ teaspoonful of mixed cayenne and black pepper ; 1 teaspoonful of mustard ; 1 tablespoonful of vine- gar ; 1 tablespoonful of anchovy sauce ; 5 tablespoonfuls of oil or thick cream. Method. — Mix the hard-boiled egg and the raw one together in a little water, then add the other ingredients. The oil, Or cream, must be stirred in very gradually. Cream may generally be substi- tuted for oil in salad sauces. Sauce for Cold Meat or Fish. Ingredients.—A little parsley and shalot ; ^ clove of garlic ; 2 spoon- fuls of olive-oil ; yolks of five eggs ; a little salt and pepper ; 1 spoonful of mustard, 2 of tarragon vinegar, and'l of white wine. Method. — Shred the parsley, shalot and garlic very fine, and rub them down in the oil, and the yolks of the eggs, well beaten. Add the other ingredients, and beat the whole till of a good con- sistence. It takes three-quarters of an hour to make it well. Shrimp Sauca. Ingredients.—h pint of picked shrimps ; 1 oz. of butter ; 1 oz. of flour ; f pint of milk ; a few drops of lemon-juice, or 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce ; pepper and salt. Method.—Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, and, when quite smooth, pour in the milk ; keep stirring one way over the fire till it boils, then add the lemon-juice or anchovy sauce, pepper and salt to taste, and shrimps. Let the whole stand by the side of the fire for a few minutes till the fish are thoroughly heated through. Sweet Sauca (1). Ingredients. — 1 teaspoonful of arrowroot or flour; 2 dessert-spoon- fuls of powdered sugar ; the juice of half a lemon ; £ pint of milk ; 1 wine-glassful of sherry or brandy. Method.—Boil the milk (water can be substituted if preferred) with the sugar. Then add to it the arrowroot, or flour, previously mixed smooth with a little cold