109 PUDDINGS. chopped fine), ginger, soda, and sugar ; then add the syrup and lemon-juice ;stir well, adding suf- ficient milk to make a very stiff dough ; turn into a well-buttered basin ; give plenty of room for swelling; cover with a floured cloth, and place in a saucepan with about two inches of boiling water; steam three hours. N.B.— A few sultana raisins may be added, and will be found an improvement. For sauce : milk, lemon-juice, and sugar, made hot, but not allowed to boil. Gladstone Pudding. Ingredients.—3-lb. of flour ; £ lb. of beef suet (well minced); } lb. currants (washed and dried); % lb. golden syrup; 2 eggs ; 1 teaspoon- ful of ground ginger; a few drops essence of lemon. Method.—Mix well all the dry ingredients, and add the syrup, lemon, and beaten eggs. Boil in a basin, covered with a floured cloth, for three hours. Green Gooseberry Pudding. Ingredients.—1 pint of goose- berries ; 1 oz. of butter; 4 eggs ; sugar, bread-crumbs. Method.—Pick and wipe the gooseberries ; boil them until soft; sweeten to taste ; add the butter and eggs, well beaten, and when the fruit is quite cold mix all well together. Strew a well-buttered mould thickly with bread-crumbs and sugar; pour the fruit very gently into it, and strew more bread-crumbs and sugar thickly over the top. Bake for about an hour in a moderate oven. When taken out of the oven, cover with a cloth. Serve, when cold, turned out on a dish. Half-Pay Pudding. Ingredients.—| pint of milk ; l lb. of flour ; i lb. of currants; \ lb. of raisins ; £ lb. of suet; J lb. of bread-crumbs ; 2 tablespoonfuls of treacle; 1 teaspoonful of baking- powder. Method. — Wash and dry the currants ; stone the raisins ; chop the suet, and mix all the in- gredients thoroughly together. Put into a cloth or mould, and boil for three hours. Serve, if desired, with wine or brandy sauce. Helena Pudding. Ing7‘edients.—4 oz. stale bread- crumbs ; 2 oz. of moist sugar ; 1 oz. of butter ; 1 oz. candied peel; 2 tablespoonfuls of raspberry or other jam ; 2 eggs; and 1 pint of milk. Method.—Boil the milk, pour it over the bread-crumbs, and allow them to soak for ten minutes ; then add the beaten yolks of the eggs, the peel, chopped very fine, and the butter. Pour this into a buttered pudding - dish ; spread the jam on the top ; then add the whites of the eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Bake for half an hour. When cold, turn out, and sprinkle over with castor sugar. Hominy Pudding. Ingredients.—6 tablespoonfuls of flaked hominy ; 1 quart of milk; sugar to taste ; 2 eggs ; a little flavouring. Method. — Mix the hominy smooth with a little of the cold milk ; boil the remainder of the milk and stir the hominy into it; keep stirring it over a clear fire until it thickens; add the sugar and flavouring, and pour the whole into a buttered pudding - dish.