SWEETS, ETC. 120 quite clear. Pour into moulds which have been standing in water. Coffee Cream. Ingredients. — 1 calf’s-foot ; 1 teacupful of very strong coffee ; a little isinglass ; 1 pint of good cream ; sugar to taste. Method.—Boil the calf’s-foot in a quart of water till it reduces to a pint of jelly, clear of sediment and fat; make a teacupful of very strong coffee, clear it with a bit of isinglass that it may be perfectly bright; pour it on the jelly, and add the pint of cream ; sweeten to taste ; give it one boil up, and pour it into your mould. Cream Snow. Ingredients.—1 pint sweet cream; 8 teaspoonfuls white sugar ; whites of 2 eggs ; 1 teaspoonful essence of lemon. Method.—Mix the cream with the other ingredients, whip it, and take off the froth as it rises. It can be used for ornamenting other dishes, or placed in a wetted mould, and turned out in a dish when ready. Boiled Custard. Ingredients.—1 pint of milk ; 5 eggs, or the yolks of 6 eggs; 1| tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar ; a little lemon, almond or vanilla flavouring. Method.—Boil the milk with the sugar, and when it has cooled a little, add it to the eggs (previously well beaten), stirring all the time. Strain the mixture into a jug, which place in a saucepan of boil- ing water over the fire. Keep stirring the custard gently one way, without ceasing, until it begins to thicken; then move the spoon more quickly, letting it always touch the bottom of the jug, until the mixture is brought to the point of boiling, when it must be taken off the fire at once or.it will curdle in a moment Stir occasionally while cooling. Corn-Flour Blanc Mange. {American Recipe.) . Ingredients.—4 large tablespoon- fuls of corn-flour mixed smooth in 2 tablespoonfuls of milk ; 2 eggs, whipped light; 1 quart of milk ; 1 cup of sugar; ^ teaspoonful of salt | bit of soda the size of a pea dissolved with the salt in the milk ; a few drops of vanilla or bitter almond. Method.—Boil the milk with the salt and soda ; add the sugar, and when this is melted, stir in the wet corn-flour ; keep stirring over the fire until thick, then take out a cupful and beat into the whipped eggs ; return this to the saucepan, add the essence, cook one minute longer, stirring all the time, and pour into moulds previously dipped in cold water. When cold, turn out on a dish, and serve with jam, stewed fruit, milk or cream. Eggs and soda may be omitted, if liked. Dutch Cream. Ingredients. — The yollss of 10 eggs ; 4 glasses of white wine ; a little cinnamon and lemon-peel; \ oz. of isinglass; 1 pint of cream. Method.—Put the yolks of the eggs into a stewpan with the wine, cinnamon, and lemon-peel; stir over a slow fire till it becomes thick ; have ready melted the £ ounce of isinglass, and the cream well whipped. Mix the isinglass and eggs together, and stir them round until quite cold; then add the