71 POULTRY AND GAME. good sauce to the gravy, and pour it over the hare. Serve with red-currant jelly. Hare Pie. Ingredients.—1 hare ; 2 or 3 onions ; 1 carrot ; 1 bay-leaf ; 2 glasses of port wine ; pepper and salt; puff-paste. (See ‘ Pastry.’) Method.—Cut the hare in neat pieces; put it into a saucepan with enough water to cover it, the onions and carrot sliced, and the bay-leaf ; stew it till tender ; then place it in a pie-dish, with its own liquor strained, and the two glasses of port wine; season with pepper and salt ; cover with puff-paste and bake about an hour, in an oven that is not very hot. Roast Hare. Ingredients.—1 fine hare; some good veal stuffing (see ‘ Force- meat,’ etc.); salt and water; milk; butter; brown gravy. Method. — After the hare is skinned and prepared, wipe it dry with a clean cloth ; fill the belly with the stuffing, and sew it up. Draw the fore and hind legs close to the body, and pass a long skewer through each. Tie a string round the body, from one skewer to the other, and secure it above the back. Fix the head between the shoul- ders with another skewer, and be careful to leave the ears on. Place it at some distance from the fire when first it is put down, baste it for a few minutes with strong salt and water ; then put a fresh drip- ping-pan under it, and baste it well with milk and butter. Just before it is done, dredge over a little flour, and baste it well with butter to make a fine froth. When cooked, take it up on a hot dish, re- move the skewers, and pour a little good gravy into the dish. Serve gravy in a tureen. A little red- currant jelly may be melted in the gravy if desired. The hare will take from one hour and a half to two hours to cook. It should be well done. Roast Larks. Ingredients.—Larks; pepper and salt ; egg ; bread-crumbs, finely grated ; fresh butter. Method.—Pick, clean, and truss the birds for roasting; season them inside with pepper and salt; dip them in egg and finely grated bread-crumbs, and set them to roast before a bright fire ; baste constantly with fresh butter, to keep them from burning. A quar- ter of an hour should cook them. Serve on crisp bread-crumbs fried in clarified butter. Larks may be roasted without egg and bread- crumbs if desired. They are also excellent broiled over a clear fire. Dressed Partridge. Ingredients.—1 cold partridge ; egg; bread-crumbs; butter; pepper and salt; cayenne ; lemon-juice ; fried bread-crumbs. Method.—Cut up the partridge into neat joints; dip the pieces in egg and finely grated bread-crumbs, and broil them over a clear fire in a little butter; add seasoning to taste ; a very little cayenne, and some lemon-juice. Serve on a thick layer of nicely fried bread- crumbs. Roast Pheasant. Proceed according to directions for roast fowls. Serve with brown gravy and bread-sauce. Pigeon Pie. Ingredients,—A good beef-steak;