PUDDINGS. 107 biscuits ; the yolks of 8 eggs ; j pint of cream; 1 glass of brandy; butter ; some stoned raisins. Method.—Beat the cakes, bis- cuits, eggs, cream, and brandy well together (the cakes having been previously soaked in the cream and brandy). Take a well- buttered mould and place the raisins in a pattern over it; pour in the pudding; place the mould in a saucepan of boiling water, and simmer for one hour and a half. When done, turn out on a dish. Cream Pudding. Ingredients.—1| pint of milk ; 3 eggs ; 3 oz. butter; 1^ table- spoonful of arrowroot or corn- flour ; 2 oz. sugar; a little lemon or other flavouring. Method. — Mix the arrowroot with a little cold milk till quite smooth ; flavour with a few drops of lemon-essence or juice, and stir into it the butter. Bring the rest of the milk to boiling-point in a lined saucepan, and add the sugar; then pour it into the arrowroot, stirring well together. Beat the eggs thoroughly ; stir them into the other ingredients, and pour the whole into a pie-dish. This pudding should be baked in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. It may be served with stewed fruit. Cup Pudding. Ingredients.—1 cupful of flour ; 1 cupful of suet; 1 cupful of bread- crumbs ; 1 cupful of sugar ; 1 cupful of currants ; £ cupful of raisins ; 1 teaspoonful of carbonate of soda ; 1 cupful of milk, and 1 well-beaten egg. Method.—Mince the suet finely; stone the raisins; well wash and dry the currants. Mix the. in- gredients all together, put in a greased basin, and steam for two hours. Apples and figs, chopped finely, can be substituted for the currants and raisins. Cup Puddings. Ingredients. — 4 tablespoonfuls of flour ; 1 pint of milk ; 4 eggs ; sugar and nutmeg to taste. Method.—Beat the milk and flour to a smooth batter; stir in the well-whisked eggs, and add the sugar and nutmeg ; mix well. Fill buttered teacups two parts full, and bake in a quick oven. Currant Pudding. Ingredients.—1 lb. red currants (or any other fresh fruit); sugar ; some slices of plain bread. Method.—Stew the currants with sugar. Cut the bread into slices about half an inch thick, and shape a layer into the bottom of a pudding-dish; over this place a layer of the boiling fruit, jthen a layer of bread, and so on till the dish is full. Place the pudding in the oven for a few minutes. When cold, turn it on to a dish, and serve with cream, or cold custard sauce. Baked Custard Pudding. Ingredients. — 6 teacupfuls of milk ; 1 tablespoonful of sugar ; 6 eggs; a little lemon or other flavouring; nutmeg. Method.—Put the milk into a saucepan with the sugar ; when on the point of boiling, take it off the fire, and let it stand a minute or two to cool. Beat the yolks and whites of the eggs separately, and pour the milk over them, stirring all the time ; add the flavouring ; pour the custard into a mould or