69 POULTRY AND GAME. lemon-juice, and let them stand for half an hour, or longer ; wipe them dry ; dip them into clarified butter, and then into bread-crumbs mixed with a little lemon-peel, grated. Place on a gridiron and broil over a dear fire. When fried, instead of broiled, use the yolk of an egg well beaten, instead of clarified butter. Fowl Pillau. Ingredients. — A nice fowl; 2 quarts of stock ; 1 lb. of best rice ; 2 oz. of butter ; 2 eggs ; 8 slices of bacon ; 4 onions ; | oz. of coriander- seed ; J oz. of cloves ; £ oz. of all- spice ; J oz. of mace ; J oz. of cinnamon ; \ oz. of peppercorns ; a few cardamom-seeds. Method.—Well wash the rice, and having put the butter into a frying- pan, turn the rice into it, and brown nicely. Prepare the fowl for boil- ing, and put it into a pan with the stock, adding the spices, which should be first pounded, and then tied up in a muslin bag. Boil the fowl till almost done, add the rice, and leave it to stew till quite tender. Fry the onions nicely, grill the bacon, and boil the eggs hard. Then put the fowl on a dish, pile the rice over it, and range round it the onions, bacon, and eggs cut into slices. Serve hot, but keep back the spices when turning out the rice. Roast Fowls. Ingredients— Fowl for roasting ; butter. Method.—Pick the fowl and draw it, being careful not to break the gall-bag. It should not be washed, if properly drawn, but wiped with a dry cloth. Next singe the fowl, and press the breast-bone down. The legs should be broken at the middle of the first joint, then re- move the sinews, and cut ofi' the parts round the beak. Put the liver in one pinion, and the gizzard in the other, turning the points on the back. Skewer closely the first joint of the pinion and the middle of the leg to the body. Do this on each side. A third skewer must be run through the small of the leg and the sidesman ; and a fourth must do the same on the other side. Then cut off the head close to the body, leaving some of the skin, which should be tied on the back. Hang the fowl before the fire, neck downwards, and baste several times with butter. Boast from half an hour to an hour, according to size. Serve with gravy sauce, or melted butter, after having removed all the skewers and strings. The fowl may be stuffed with fowl or turkey stuffing. (See 1 Force- meat,’ etc.) Place on the dish breast upwards. Giblet Pis. Ingredients. — The giblets of 1 goose or 2 ducks ; 1 lb. of tender beef-steak ; 2 onions ; a little thyme and parsley tied together ; pepper and salt; some light suet paste ; water. Method.—Put the giblets, having previously washed them, into a stew pan with the steak, cut into small pieces; add sufficient cold water to cover, and as soon as the water begins to simmer, put in the onions, cut into thin slices, and the herbs. Stew the whole gently for about two hours, then remove the herbs, and let the giblets get cold. Line the sides of a pie-dish with the suet paste, and lay in the giblets and pieces of steak, seasoning to taste with pepper and salt, and