MEATS. 60 Boiled Leg of Mutton. Ingredients. — Leg of mutton, about 8 lb.; water ; salt. Method.—Place the leg of mutton in a saucepan, and cover withwater slightly salted. As the scum rises, remove with a spoon. The meat must boil slowly for rather more than two hours. Dish a little of the liquor with the meat, and re- serve the rest for broth. The car- rots and turnips generally served with this dish should be boiled separately, if the meat is to keep well. Send to table with caper sauce. Shoulder and neck of mutton may be boiled in the same way. Serve with onion-sauce. The neck of mutton (very convenient for small families) may also be either roasted or stewed. Boned Shoulder of Mutton, Stuffed. Ingredients.—1 shoulder of mut- ton ; some veal stuffing. (See ‘ Forcemeat,’ etc.) Method. — Having carefully boned the shoulder of mutton, fill the space with good veal stuffing ; roll up tightly, and bind firmly with tape. It may be either roasted or baked. (See directions for ‘ Roasting’ and ‘ Baking.’) A leg of mutton may be boned and stuffed in the same way. Devonshire Squab Pie. Ingredients.—Pie-crust; pippins; mutton-steaks; onions ; paste. (See‘Pastry.’) Method.—Pare, core, and slice the pippins; boil the onions in two waters, and slice them. Let the steaks be cut from the loin, and seasoned with pepper and salt. Cover a pie-dish with the crust, and fit in a layer of the pippins, a layer of the mutton, another layer of pippins, and two sliced onions. Repeat these layers until the dish is full, when pour over a pint of water. Cover with crust, make a hole in the top, ornament, glaze, and bake in good oven. Mutton Steaks. (French Recipe.) Ingredients.—Mutton-steaks cut from the neck ; a few small onions; savoury herbs ; butter ; flour ; pepper and salt; vinegar ; egg ; bread-crumbs ; some finely minced herbs. Method.—Trim the steaks neatly, shorten the bones, and put them aside with the trimmings, for gravy. Place the steaks in a stewpan, with a few small onions, savoury herbs, and sufficient water to cover; let the whole come to the boil, then drain the steaks on a dish, and add to the liquor in the stewpan the bones and trimmings ; boil these for one hour, then strain. When cold, skim the gravy, put it into a saucepan, over the fire, and thicken with browned butter and flour, adding seasoning and a little vine- gar. Have ready the steaks nicely fried (having previously dipped them in egg, breadcrumbs, and finely minced herbs) ; place them on a hot dish, pour the gravy round them, and serve. To Boil Bacon. Soak it in warm water for an hour or two before dressing it; cut off the rusty parts, and scrape the rind as clean as possible. Put it on in cold water, and let it sim- mer g'ntly until thoroughly cooked. Skim carefully. A piece of bacon of 2 lb. will take about one hour