163 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. water, and hung up to dry. We need scarcely say that saucepan- lids should be as well washed and dried as the pans themselves. If anything has been burned in the pans, before washing them boil some soda and water in them, and then rub them inside with sand (nearly dry) until quite clean. To Clean Pewter Vessels and Tin Covers. Keep such vessels free of damp by always wiping well, and drying before the fire after use. Polish with sweet oil and finest whiting. To Clean Britannia-Metal. Put some sweet oil on a piece of fine woollen cloth. Rub the vessels well, and wipe with soft linen till cleani; then rub up with soft wash- leather and whiting. Before rubbing up they might be washed with boiling water and soap. To Wash Wine-Decanters. Put some soap and pearl-ashes into lukewarm water; pour it into the decanters, and clean with a proper brush. Fixed Stoppers. To get these out dip a towel in hot water, and wrap round the neck. Continue doing this till the stoppers loosen. Or drop a little sweet oil on the necks, and the stopper will soon come out if placed near the fire. To Remove Stains from Knife- handles. Rub with powdered pumice- stone and soap, and polish with dry whiting. To Remove Paint Stains from Glass. Wash the glass with a soft flannel dipped in very hot water in which soda has been dissolved. This will entirely remove the paint. To Clean Brussels Carpets. Materials — A pail of cold water with ox-gall mixed in it ; another pail of cold water ; two woollen cloths, and several dry towels. Method.—Stretch the carpet lightly over the floor, nail it down carefully, and then sweep it. Next dip one of the cloths into the ox- gall and water, and rub a portion of the carpet till a froth rises on it. Then dip another of the cloths into the other pail of water, and rub the carpet till the froth dis- appears, rinsing the cloth from time to time as you proceed. Then dry with a towel. Do all the carpet in the same way, and it will look not only cleaner but brighter than it was. The process should be done only in warm weather, when the windows can be left open for the carpet to get dry. To Clean Varnished Paint. Ingredients.—Warm water and soap; clean cold water ; a little beer. Method.—Wash the paint first with the warm water and soap (using a soft flannel and no brush); then go over it again with clean cold water; and finally, to give it a bright polish, rub over it a little beer, and polish. with a soft linen cloth. To Clean Unvarnished Paint. Ingredients.—Some warm suds ; 1 tablespoonful of ammonia ; a little whiting ; clean water. Method.—Mix the ammonia and a little whiting with the warm suds ; dip a flannel in this, and n—2