PUDDINGS. 103 Almond Pudding. Ingredients—§ bitter almonds ; 2 oz. of sweet almonds ; milk ; 4 eggs; ^ gill of cream; 2 tablespoon- fuls of brandy; 6oz.of stale sponge- cake ; 2 oz. of sifted sugar ; some dried cherries. For sauce: 1 tea- spoonful of. arrowroot ; 1 table- spoonful of cold milk; 1 gill of boiling milk ; 1 dessertspoonful of white sugar ; £ lb. of cherry jelly. Method.—Blanch the almonds (bitter and sweet), and boil them for twenty minutes in sufficient milk to cover them ; take them out of the milk and pound them to a paste in a mortar ; when the milk is nearly cold, add the eggs, well beaten, the cream and brandy; rub the sponge-cake to crumbs, mix in with the other ingredients, beat all well together for ten minutes, then stir in the sifted sugar. Butter a mould, stick' it round in Vandykes with dried cherries, pour in the mix- ture, cover with buttered writing paper, and steam quickly for 2 hours. When the pudding is nearly cooked, make the sauce as follows : Mix the arrowroot quite smooth in the cold milk* stir in the boiling milk, and add the sugar ; boil three minutes, stir- ring all the time ; then stir in very gradually the cherry jelly, dis- solved, and continue stirring (off the fire) till the sauce is quite smooth. Turn the pudding care- fully on to a dish, and serve. Amy’s Pudding. Ingredients. — Grated bread- crumbs ; red currant jelly ; a little sugar; 1 egg; milk; ground cinnamon or nutmeg. Method. — Butter a pudding- dish, and put into it a thick layer of bread-crumbs, then a layer of jelly, and over that another layer of bread-crumbs. Beat up the egg and mix with it a little sugar, and just sufficient milk to cover the bread. Sprinkle with cinna- mon or nutmeg, and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. Strawberry or rasp- berry jam, or marmalade, can be substituted for the jelly, if pre- ferred. Apple Dumplings. Ingredients.—6 apples ; mcist sugar; f lb. of suet-crust (see Pastry). Method.— Peel the apples, care- fully remove the cores, and fill the centre of each apple with moist sugar. Have the crust ready cut into six portions ; place an apple in the centre of each piece of paste, and draw the paste round it till. it is quite covered, taking care that the paste is neatly joined. Tie the dumplings securely in floured cloths, put them into boiling water and boil them from three- quarters of an hour to one hour, according to their size. When done, remove the cloths, and send quickly to table. These dump- lings may be baked instead of boiled. To bake them, place them on a greased tin in a moderate oven. When ready, arrange them neatly on a dish, and sprinkle pounded white sugar over them. If preferred, puff-paste may be substituted for the suet-crust. Apple Pancakes. (iGerman.) Ingredients.—Pancake batter; apples ; a little powdered sugar; grated lemon-peel ; a small lump of butter.