17 SOUPS. (The above, -without the fowl, would of course be leek-soup sim- ply, and as such would be found very palatable. For cock-a-leekie, an old cock—from which the dish takes its name — is sometimes used.) Cucumber Soup. Ingredients. — 1 cucumber; a small piece of butter ; 1 quart of ordinary stock ; a little chervil and sorrel; 2 eggs ; 1 gill of cream ; salt and pepper. Method. — Pare the cucumber, which should be a tolerably large one ; quarter it, taking out the seeds ; cut it into thin slices, which put on a plate with a little salt (to draw the water from them) ; drain them, and put them in a stewpan, with the butter. When they are warmed through, pour the stock over them ; add the chervil and sorrel, season to taste, and boil for three-quarters of an hour. Beat up the yolks of the eggs with the cream, and add to the disn before serving. Egg Soup. Ingredients.—2 onions ; a little butter ; 3 pints of water ; 1 table- spoonful of flour ; j pint of milk ; | teaspoonful of salt ; a pinch of pepper ; a pinch of sifted sugar ; 4 eggs, and 2 oz. of pulled bread. Method.—Slice the onions, and fry them in the butter to a light brown. Add the water, and let it reduce by boiling to a quart. When the onions are tender, strain the liquor from them, and put them aside. Let the liquor boil, and add to it the flour mixed smooth in the milk, the salt, the pepper, and the sugar. Stir the soup till it thickens, remove it from the fire, and stir in slowly the yolks of the eggs. Place in the soup-tureen the pulled bread (or slices of roll dried in the oven), pour the soup over it, and serve. Scotch Fish Soup. Ingredients. — 4 haddocks ; 4 quarts of beef stock ; 5 onions ; 1 turnip ; 1 carrot ; parsley ; pepper and salt. Method.—Skin the haddocks and take out all the bones ; cut these into pieces about 2 inches long -, then put the heads, skins, and bones, well washed, into the beef stock, with 3 onions, and let the whole boil for an hour. Next strain the soup into a clean saucepan ; add 2 onions (chopped small), a turnip, and a carrot ; and let the soup boil for five minutes. Add the pieces of fish and the parsley (minced), and boil again for eight minutes. Take out the turnip and carrot, and season to taste. German Soup. Ingredients.—f lb. neck of mut- ton ; 2| quarts of water ; 2 large onions ; 4 potatoes ; 1 carrot ; j lb. rice ; pepper and salt. Method.—Put the mutton in the water, and, when it boils, add the onions and potatoes (both chopped fine) and the carrots (grated). Then boil for two hours, at the end of which add the rice (well washed), s,nd let the whole boil for half an hour more. Season to taste. Hotch Potch. Ingredients.—2 lb. of scrag-end of mutton ; 6 pints of water ; 1 fore-quarter of lamb; 5 young 2