SWEETS, ETC. 117 Baked Treacle Pudding. Ingredients. — Puff- paste (see ‘ Pastry ’); some treacle, or golden syrup. Method.—Line the bottom of a pie-dish with puff-paste ; cover it with treacle or golden syrup ; then place over it another layer of the paste. Proceed in this way till the dish is full. Let the top layer of paste be thicker than the others. Bake a light brown colour in a quick oven. Vermicelli Pudding. Ingredients.—3 oz. of vermicelli ; 1| pint of milk ; sugar to taste ; a few drops of any essence : 2 or 3 eggs. Method.—Soak the vermicelli in half a pint of the milk ; boil the other pint, with the sugar and flavouring and stir the vermicelli into it. Let the whole simmer gently for about twenty minutes, then pour into a buttered pudding- dish. When cool, mix in the eggs, well beaten, and bake in a moderate oven. Yorkshire Pudding. Ingredients.—\ lb. of flour ; a little salt ; 3 eggs ; 1 pint of milk. Method.—Put the flour into a basin writh the salt; add the eggs, well beaten ; then stir in the milk very gradually. Mix the whole into a very smooth batter, and pour into a shallow tin, previously well buttered. Bake under meat in the oven ; or bake for an hour, and then place the pudding for half an hour under a joint of beef roasting before the fire. When done, cut in squares, and serve on a hot folded napkin. Sweets, etc. Almond Cream. Ingredients.—1 quart cream or good milk, or half of each ; sugar and lemon flavouring to taste; rice- flour or corn-flour; orange-flower water; 2 bay-leaves; 12 sweet and 4 bitter almonds. Method.—Beat the almonds to a paste with a little orange-flower water, and put them, with the bay- leaves, sugar, and lemon-flavouring, to boil in the cream. Mix smoothly in a little milk enough rice-flour to thicken the above mixture, and stir it in. Boil for about ten minutes, then turn into a basin to cool. When cold, stir in a little lemon-juice, and put the cream into glasses. This cream may also be put to cool in a mould, and turned out when cold. It must then be made sufficiently thick. Apples with Cream. Ingredients.—Some apples ; the yolks of 4 eggs ; 1 spoonful of flour ; 1 pint of cream; a little sugar; 1 glass of madeira or sherry. Method.—Pare the apples, cut them in four, and, after having carefully taken out the cores, put them to stew with a little water and sugar in a saucepan. When they begin to fail, take them off the fire. In another pan put the yolks of the four eggs, the flour, cream, and sugar. Set the pan upon a slow fire, and keep stirring the cream continually, taking care it does not boil for fear of curdling it. When done enough, add the