22 sours. gently until the butter has all been brought to the surface and re- moved. Then add the young peas, boiled for eating, and serve immediately. Winter Pea Soup. Ingredients.—1 pint of split peas; 3 quarts of water; 1\ lb. of beef; 1 slice of bacon ; 1 handful of spinach ; half bunch of mint ; a few cloves; a little mace; a lump of sugar; pepper and salt. Method.—Boil the peas in the water till quite soft. Add the beef, the bacon, a portion of the spinach, the cloves, and the mace. Stew for two hours ; rub through a sieve; then add the mint, a little spinach (cut into shreds), the sugar, and pepper and salt to taste; and stew again for three-quarters of an hour. Serve with fried or toasted bread, cut into dice, and placed on a separate dish. Potato Soup. Ingredients.—1 lb. of potatoes ; 1 onion; 1 stick of celery; 1^ pint of white stock; % pint of cream or milk; pepper and salt. Method.—Having peeled the po- tatoes, cut them, together with the onion and celery, into thin pieces ; add them to the stock, and let the whole simmer gently till done. Rub the soup through a tammy- cloth or hair-sieve, season, add the cream, make hot, and serve with crusts of bread, fried. Brown Rabbit Soup. Ingredients.—2 full-grown or 3 small rabbits; 3 onions; 7 pints of water; 1 large teaspoonful of salt; some parsley ; 4 carrots ; 1 small teaspoonful of peppercorns. Method.—Take the rabbits, and cut them down into joints, flour them, and fry lightly. Fry the onions to a clear brown, and add them to the rabbits. Pour the water gradually upon the whole; add the salt; clear off scum when necessary; and add to the soup the parsley, the carrots, and the pep- percorns. Boil softly for five or five and a half hours, adding more salt if required. Strain off the soup; let it cool sufficiently for the fat to be skimmed from it; heat it afresh, and send it to the table with sippets of fried bread. The soup can be rendered more tasty by the addition of spice, with a thickening of rice-flour, and a spoonful or two of ketchup or sauce. White Rice Soup. Ingredients.— 4 oz. of rice ; 2 quarts of stock; f pint of cream; salt, cayenne, and pounded mace. Method.—Wash the rice well; place it in boiling water; and after it has boiled five minutes, pour it into a sieve, drain it, and add it to the stock, which should be boiling. Let the whole stew till done; then season to taste, add the cream, boil, and serve quickly. Scotch Broth. Ingredients.—1 gallon of water; 1 breakfast-cupful of Scotch bar- ley; 2 or 3 lb. of good gravy meat; 4 or 5 carrots; 4 or 5 turnips ; 3 onions; 1 cabbage; 2 or 3 heads of celery, etc.; seasoning. Method.—Pour the water into a stewpot, and put into it the meat and barley ; let them boil for an hour; then add the vegetables all chopped, with seasoning to taste, and boil the whole slowly for two hours. Parsley, leeks, and other vegetables may be added, according to what is in season.