POULTRY AND GAME. Babbit Pie. Ingredients. — 1 young tender rabbit ; a few slices of bacon ; some minced onions, if liked; a blade of powdered mace ; salt and white pepper to taste; \ pint of stock, or water ; puif-paste. (See ‘ Pastry.’) Method.—Empty, wash, and dry the rabbit; cut it into neat joints, season them with pepper, salt, and powdered mace, and lay them al- ternately with the bacon and onion in a deep dish. Pour in the stock or water, put a plate on the top, and let the rabbit cook for half an hour in a moderate oven. When cool, cover it with pastry, ornament nicely, and cut a hole in the centre to allow the steam to escape. Brush over with beaten egg, and bake for about an hour and a quarter. Should the crust get brown too quickly, place a piece of paper over it. Serve either hot or cold. The onion may be omitted, and a few forcemeat - balls and hard-boiled eggs may be added instead. Pork can also be substituted for the bacon, if preferred. Stewed Babbit. (Plain.) Ingredients.—1 young rabbit; 2 onions; a little flour, butter, pepper and salt. Method.—Empty the rabbit, wash it well in tepid water, dry it tho- roughly, and cut it up into small joints. Melt a lump of butter in a stewpan, and when it gets very hot put the onions into it (sliced very thinly), and fry them a nice pale brown. Next add the pieces of rabbit, floured and seasoned, and brown them also on both sides. Cover with boiling water, and stew very gently for two hours and a half. A teaspoonful of curry can be stirred into the gravy, if liked. Serve with boiled rice (which see). Stev/ed Babbit, with Stuffing. (German Recipe.) Ingredients. — 1 young rabbit ; some veal stuffing (see ‘Force- meat,’ etc.) ; 3 rashers of fat bacon; new milk; pepper and salt ; some sliced lemon. Method.—Clean the rabbit tho- roughly, fill it with stuffing, tie the rashers of bacon over it, truss it firmly, and roast before a nice clear fire till lightly browned. Then take it up, put it into a large stewpan, pour over it the contents of the dripping-tin, enough new milk to cover it, and season slightly with pepper and salt. Simmer the whole gently for one hour or longer, until the rabbit is quite tender. Keep the saucepan closely covered. When done, serve on a hot dish garnished with sliced lemon. Pour a little of the gravy over the rabbit, and send the remainder to table in a tureen. Boiled Turkey. Ingredients.—1 hen turkey of moderate size; some good stuffing. (See ‘ Forcemeat,’ etc.) Method.—Having prepared and trussed the turkey for boiling, and stuffed the breast with some good forcemeat, wrap the turkey in a clean cloth, put it into hot water (rather more than what will cover it), bring it slowly to the boil, skim carefully, then simmer gently from one hour and a half to two hours and a half, according to the age of the bird. When quite tender, serve on a hot dish with a little celery sauce, or parsley and butter. Pour a small