SOUPS. 19 Leek Soup. (See ‘ Cock-a-Leekie.’) Lentil Soup. Ingredients.—1 pint of Egyptian lentils; 1 large onion; 1 small carrot; 1 small turnip ; 3 sticks of celery ; 2 quarts of water ; pepper and salt. Method.—Wash the lentils well; cut the vegetables small ; and boil the two together in the water for two or three hours, stirring now and then, till done. Then rub through a wire-sieve (and through a hair- sieve afterwards, if possible) ; season to taste ; and make hot, stirring the while. Serve with crusts of bread, fried. Macaroni Soup. Ingredients.—Some bones ; some salt ; 2 carrots ; 1 large turnip ; 4 leeks ; 2 onions ; 2 cloves ; 1 blade of mace ; some peppercorns, and \ lb. of macaroni. Method.—Break the bones small, and place them in a saucepan full of water, so that there is not only enough to cover them, but a quart more. Boil, and add salt mean- while. Wash and cut up the vege- tables, sticking the cloves into the onions ; skim the soup thoroughly, and add the vegetables, mace, and peppercorns. Simmer gently for two hours and a half, and then strain. Boil the macaroni, with a little salt, in a separate saucepan for half an hour. Then cut it up i into small pieces, and, when the} soup is ready for use, put the | macaroni into a tureen, and pour the soup over it. Vegetable Marrow Soup. Ingredients.—2 young vegetable marrows ; 1 quart of white stock ; \ pint of cream ; white pepper, and salt. Method.—Pare the marrows, slice them, and put them in the stock, which should have been brought to the boil. When done almost to pulp, press the marrow ‘slices through a sieve, and, before serving, add the cream (which should also be boiling) and the seasoning. Milk Soup. x Ingredients.—2 large onions ; 1 turnip ; 1 small stick of celery ; 1 pint of stock; 1 pint of milk, and 1 dessertspoonful of French po- tato-flour. Method. — Mince together the onions, the turnip, and the white part of the celery. Boil them in the stock (or in the liquor in which fresh meat has been boiled, or in water, if necessary), and, when they are ready, rub them through a sieve. Then add to them, and to the liquor in which they have been boiled, the pint of milk. Let the whole boil; season and thicken with the potato-flour (or 2 dessert- spoonfuls of rice-flour rubbed smooth in a little water); and serve with fried bread. Mock-Turtle Soup. Ingredients.—1 calf’s head; 3 quarts of stock ; 1 onion; 2 car- rots ; 1 shank of ham ; 1 head of celery ; 1 or 2 cloves; 3 or 4 pep- percorns , a bunch of sweet herbs; and a little lemon-peel. Method.—Scald the calf’s head (with the skin on) ; take out the I bones ; and cut into 2-inch pieces. J Wash the pieces thoroughly, place ' them in a stewpan, and boil them f& an hour. Put the stock into another stewpan ; and add the re- mainder of the ingredients. Stew 2—2