EGGSy CHEESE, ETC. 139 To Boil Eggs. Fill a saucepan with hot water, and when it is on the point of boil- ing, put the eggs in gently with a spoon. Let them boil, then lift the saucepan off the fire at once, and allow it to stand on the side of the stove for five minutes. Eggs boiled in this way will be thoroughly, cooked, light, and digestible. Eggs a la Bonne Femme. Ingredients. — 1 medium - sized onion; 1 pat of butter; 1 tea- spoonful of vinegar ; 3 or 4 eggs ; pepper and salt; some fried bread- crumbs. Method.—Cut the onion into slices, and fry in a stew-pan, with a pat of butter, a light brown ; when done, add the vinegar ; then butter a dish lightly, spread the onions, (seasoned with pepper and salt), over it, break the eggs into it, and put the dish in the oven. When the eggs are set, strew them over with the fried bread-crumbs, and serve very hot. Cheese-Eggs (1). Ingredients. — Some good white cheese (say Gruyere or Stilton), some eggs, and some butter—the cheese being a third of the weight of the eggs, and the butter half the weight of the cheese. Say, eggs f lb.; cheese \ lb.; and butter 2 oz. Pepper and salt according to cir- cumstances. Method.—Beat up the eggs in a stew-pan, put it on the fire, and add the cheese (grated, or thinly sliced) and the butter. Season with pepper, and with salt also, if the flavour of the cheese admit of it. Stir con- stantly till the mixture becomes thick. Then serve on a thin slice of toast on a hot dish, the toast having previously been spread (if liked) with essence of anchovy or potted meat or fish. Cheese-Eggs (2). Ingredients. — The whites of 3 eggs ; 3 oz. of grated cheese ; pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Beat the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth, mix quickly with them the grated cheese and seasoning, and drop dessert- spoonfuls of the mixture into boil- ing fat; one minute will brown them sufficiently. Lift them care- fully from the frying-basket and place on kitchen paper to drain before the fire. Serve very hot, either on buttered toast or on a dish garnished with fried parsley. This is a nice supper-dish. Cheese Pudding (1). Ingredients.—\ lb. of cheese ; 5 oz. of grated bread-crumbs ; 1 cup- ful of milk ; 2 eggs (well beaten) ; mustard and pepper to taste ; a little ketchup, if liked ; a small piece of butter. Method.—Cut the cheese in thin slices and put them into a saucepan with a small piece of butter and the milk ; stir till well dissolved, then add the seasonings and bread- crumbs, and lastly the eggs, mixing them in lightly with a fork. Place the pudding in a shallow dish, and brown nicely before the fire. Serve very hot. Cheese Pudding (2). (Swiss Becipe.) Ingredients.—\ lb. of cheese ; 2 eggs ; a little butter ; a little milk ; pepper and salt. Method.—Grate the cheese, add it to the other ingredients, and beat all well together. Place in a pie- dish, and bake in a moderate oven.