PRESERVES. 92 scum as it rises. When the pre- serve is perfectly clear, and hangs in a thread from the spoon, pour it into jam-pots. When quite cold, cover securely. Blanched bitter almonds are a great improvement to this jam, and may be sub- stituted for the apricot-kernels. Black Currant Jam. Ingredients.—6 lb. of ripe black currants ; 4\ lb. of loaf-sugar. Method.—Strip the fruit from the stalks, and put into a pre- serving-pan with the sugar ; let it heat gently until the sugar is dis- solved, then boil rapidly till the jam is well set. Carefully remove the scum as it rises, and keep stirring constantly to prevent the jam from burning. Put into pots, and, when cold, cover closely. Black Currant Jelly. Ingredients.—3 pints of black currants ; 1 pint of red currants ; 1^- pints of water; 1 lb. of sugar (clarified and boiled to candy height) to every pint of juice. Method.—Strip the currants and put them into a jar with half a pint of water ; tie the jar closely over with folds of paper ; set it in a pan of water, and boil for twelve hours, taking care that none of the water gets into the jar; add more water to that in the pan, as it wastes in boiling. Turn the currants, when boiled, into a sieve, bruise them well with the back of a spoon, then gather the bruised berries together, and put them into a clean bowl; pour on them a pint of water, and bruise them again ; return them to the sieve, and let them drain all night; add what runs through to the rest of the juice, and to every pint allow sugar (clarified and boiled to candy-height) in the above proportion. Boil for half an hour, skim well, put into pots, and, when cold, cover closely. To Preserve Bottled Fruits. Ingredients.—Fruit of any kind, not over-ripe; sugar. Method. — Get a number of proper preserving-bottles, and into them drop the fruit, with pounded sugar to the proportion of 1 oz. to each pint bottle. Fill a boiler with water, tie round each bottle a little straw to prevent concus- sion, and place in the water. Light the fire underneath, and in about twenty minutes the juices will have covered the fruit. Re- move the bottles, seal the corks with rosin, place them in sand, head downward, and preserve them in a dry and cool place. Preserved Cucumbers. Ingredients. — Cucumbers ; le- mons ; sugar; water ; ginger; lemon-rind ; mace ; peppercorns ; vinegar. Method.—Take several cucum - bers (according to number desired) and place them in salt and water (weak) for two days ; then for two more in fresh water, twice changed. If it be desired to preserve the colour, the cucumbers must be now put in a jar with cabbage or vine leaves beneath them ; scald- ing vinegar must then be poured over them, and more leaves laid on top. Keep them so, with lid down, beside the fire for one day, then pour off the vinegar, bring it again to boiling-point, throw in some powdered alum, and pour over the cucumbers, leaving for another day. Next take the cu- cumbers from the vinegar, and, with green leaves round them, boil