147 INVALID COOKERY. Take the sweetbread out of the water or stock, and put it into the sauce; stew very slowly for a quarter of an hour, then add a little lemon-juice, if liked. Toasted bacon may be served with it. Chicken Broth. Ingredients.—1 fowl; 2 quarts of water ; 6 blades of mace ; 1 onion ; a few herbs and pepper- corns ; and some salt. Method.—Place the fowl (which should be young and tender) in the water, and let it simmer gently for two hours, skimming carefully at intervals. The fowl can then be taken out, and the most ‘ tasty ’ parts of it cut off for the table. It should then be put back, and, the mace, onion, herbs and pepper- corns having been added, boiled for two more hours ; after which the broth should be strained and put in a cool place. When it is wanted, skim the fat off the top, warm up as much as is required, and serve. Cure for a Cough. Ingredients.—2 eggs ; 3 lemons ; 1 pint of rum ; £ lb. of sugar- candy ; 2 tablespoonfuls of the best salad oil. Method. — Put 2 nice clean eggs (unbroken) into a basin; squeeze the juice of the lemons over them, and let them remain, covered closely, for two days. Then break the eggs, beat them up well with the juice, add the other ingredients, pour into a bottle, and shake all thoroughly together. Take half a wine-glassful in a little water every morning before break- fast. This is very strengthening for a delicate person. Stswed Cutlet. Ingredients. — 1 mutton cutlet (from the neck or loin) ; 2 teacup- fuls of water ; 1 small stick of celery ; pepper and salt. Method.—Take all the fat from the cutlet, and put the latter in a stewpan with the other ingredients, the celery having first been cut into thin slices. Stew very gently for nearly two hours, carefully skimming off the fat as it collects on the surface. The water should not be allowed to boil fast, or the cutlet will be hard. For Dyspeptics. Ingredients. — 1 fresh egg ; 6 tablespoonfuls of cold water; 2 tablespoonfuls of potato-flour ; boiling water. Method'.—Beat up the egg in a basin; then add the water, and mix in very smoothly the potato- flour ; pour as much boiling water over it as will make it into a jelly, stirring all the time. This is very light, wholesome and nourishing, and may be eaten for breakfast with a little milk and sugar. Egg Cordial. Ingredients.—The white of 1 very fresh egg ; 1 tablespoonful of cream ; 1 tablespoonful of brandy. Method.—Whip the egg nearly to a froth, then the cream with the egg ; add the brandy by degrees, and mix well ; do not let it stand after it is made. This is very nourishing, and so light, it wiil remain on the stomach when no- thing else will. Egg Drink. Ingredients.—1 egg ; 1 teaspoon- ful of sugar ; a cupful of boiling milk. 10—2