Go TUse TIlp Col£» flDeat, etc. Cold meat is undoubtedly most wholesome when it remains cold, and is not re-cooked ; and, moreover, it can, with a little trouble, be made to look very appetizing. Very much depends upon the way in which it is sent up to table—the manner in which it is garnished, and so on. Cut up, and laid neatly on a dish, with a few sprigs of parsley, or, still better, of lettuce, placed round it, it has an attractive appearance even in the eyes of those most difficult to please. With cold meat, salad or pickles can be taken with advantage ; and of course there is plenty of room for variety of vegetables. However, it may be admitted that cold meat cannot be eaten day after day, and it is often desirable, therefore, to re-cook it, in the various styles indicated in the following recipes. In all of these forms it is very agreeable, if not always very digestible. One thing is certain, cold meat and scraps ought not to be wasted ; and, if they are not used by the family, they should be carefully kept, and given at intervals to poor deserving persons. Bubble and Squeak. Ingredients.—Cold meat ; any cold vegetables ; pickled cucumber and onion ; butter; flour; mustard; pepper and salt. Method.—Cut the meat into slices and fry in butter, seasoning well, and keep them hot. Then put into the pan cold cabbage, cabbage and potato mixed, or other vegetables; season, and fry a nice brown. Make a little melted butter, either with milk or water; stir in a few chopped slices of cu- cumber and onion, and season with mustard, pepper and salt. Put the slices of meat in the centre of a dish, lay the vegetables round it, and serve with the sauce. Calf’s Head & la Pculette. Ingredients.—Remains of cold calf’s head; 2 oz. of butter ; 1 small dessert-spoonful of flour ; savoury herbs, if liked; 1 pint of good stock ; salt and pepper; the beaten yolks of 2 eggs; 2 or 3 drops of vinegar. Method.—Melt the butter in a stewpan over the fire, stir in the flour with a wooden spoon, add at once (as the butter must not be allowed to get brown) the herbs, chopped fine, and the stock ; sea- son with pepper and salt, and sim- mer gently, uncovered, for fifteen minutes. Put in the pieces of head, warm thoroughly through, but do not allow them to boil, then place