20 SOUPS. ti 1 the broth is reduced to 2 quarts, and then strain it into the stewpan containing the head. Mulligatawny Soup. Ingredients.—1 knuckle of veal; Bib. of breast of veal; 3 quarts of water; f oz. white and Jamaica pep- percorns ; a few slices of bacon; 6 onions (sliced); 2 tablespoonfuls of curry-powder; two table-spoon- fuls of flour (lightly browned); salt, pepper, cayenne, and lemon- juice. Method.—Line a stewpan with the bacon, and then put into the pan the knuckle of veal (broken and washed), the peppercorns and the water, having previously placed tinned skewers at the bottom of the pan to prevent the meat from sticking. Let the stock come to the boil, then skim it carefully, and let it simmer for an hour and a half before straining it off. Cut the breast of veal into 1-inch pieces, and fry them with the onions to a delicate brown. Add them to the strained stock; skim thoroughly, and when the whole has simmered for three-quarters of an hour, add to it the curry-powder and the flour, previously rubbed to a smooth batter. Use the salt and pepper and cayenne and lemon- juice according to liking, and sim- mer till the whole is tender. Serve with boiled rice. Instead of veal, chickens or rabbits (cut into pieces) or small mutton cutlets, browned, can be used for this soup. Onion Soup (1). Ingredients.—2 Spanish onions ; 1 pint of milk ; 1 pint of water ; a small piece of fresh butter ; 1 pint of stock; salt and pepper to taste. Method. — Boil the onions in water until nearly tender, strain, and finish cooking them in the milk and water ; pass through a sieve, add the stock, butter, salt, and pepper, boil a few minutes, and serve with dice of toasted bread. Onion Soup (2). Ingredients.—3 onions; 1 dessert- spoonful of oatmeal; 1 oz. of but- ter ; 1 pint of water ; pepper and salt. Method.—Slice the onions, and boil them in the water until tender ; add the oatmeal, seasoning to taste, and a small piece of butter. Oxtail Soup. Ingredients.—2 oxtails; If oz. of butter ; If heads of celery ; 2 onions; 2 turnips; 2 carrots; fib. lean ham; bunch of herbs; 5 cloves ; 1 teaspoonful of pepper- corns; 1 bay-leaf; 1 wine-glassful of ketchup ; 1 wine-glassful of port; 3 quarts of water. Method.—Cut up the oxtails, separating them at the joints; and put them into the stewpan with the butter, the head of celery, the onions, the turnips, the carrots (cut into slices), the ham (cut very thin), the peppercorns, the herbs, and about f pint of cold water. Stir the whole for a short time over a quick fire till the pan is covered with a glaze ; then pour in 3 quarts of water, skim well, and simmer slowly till the tails are done (say, for four hours). Take out the tails, strain the soup; stir in a little flour, add the port, the ketchup, and the remaining celery (previously boiled and cut into small pieces). Put the tails