MEATS. 48 Boiling.—Fresh meat should always be placed in boiling water, and kept there, the water still boiling, for about ten minutes. By this means the albumen, drawn out of the joint, forms into an outside coating, which has the effect, as in roasting, of keeping in the juices and therefore the flavour of the meat. At the end of the ten minutes the pan should be drawn away from the fire, and the meat should thereafter be kept at simmering-point till done. As a rule, a quarter of an hour should be allowed for each pound of meat, with a quarter of an hour over. But of course, as in roasting, much depends on the size and shape of the joint. A thick piece of meat will naturally take longer to cook than a thin one. Whilst the joint simmers, the water should be carefully skimmed, in order that the scum may not adhere to the meat. When the joint is about half done, a little salt should be placed in the water. Salt meat should be placed in lukewarm water, in order to draw out some of the salt; and there should be twenty minutes of simmering to each pound of meat, with twenty minutes over. In general, boiled meat is not so nutritious as roasted, because, in the former case, the coating of albumen does not offer so much resistance to the water as it does in the latter case. A leg of mutton, which has a sort of thin skin, which helps to preserve the juices, is about the most successful of all boiled joints. Stewing.—This may be described as the opposite of boiling. The meat is placed in cold water, and should never be allowed to come to the boil. It should never do more than simmer. It should be served with the water in which it is cooked, and, in order that the water may be sufficiently impregnated with meat, it should only just cover the joint, and no more. Stewing is, of course, a very lengthy process, and varies in time according to the nature of the joint. It is apt to produce a great deal of fat, and that is why stews, as a rule, are so indigestible. Baking.—The meat in this case should be put on a trivet, which in its turn should be placed on a baking-tin. The oven should be very hot, and should be kept at the same heat for a quarter of an hour, in order that the meat may obtain the coating of albumen as in roasting and boiling. Then the heat of the oven should be reduced considerably, and the remainder of the cooking done very gradually. The time for cooking the various sorts of meat is the same as in the case of roasting (which see). The oven should be well ventilated, or the meat will have an unpleasant taste. Meat is most tender when baked in a cover- ing of crust; that is to say, in the form of a pie. It can also be baked in a pie-dish. The meat should be frequently basted, and the gravy made, as in roasting. Beef Palates. (Suitable for Entrees.) Ingredients.—6 palates; 1J table- spoonful of ketchup; 1 tablespoon- ful of liquor from pickled onions; gravy; butter; flour; cayenne. Method.—First wash the palates, then lay them in a pan, and cover them with water; boil till tender.