96 FORCEMEAT, ETC. Method,—Grate the bread very- fine, also the piece of lemon-peel; add to them the chopped parsley and thyme, salt, pepper, and nut- meg to taste. Next boil the liver for three or four minutes, and mince it finely ; add this to the above with the rasped bacon, and butter broken into small pieces. Then beat up the egg lightly, and mix all well together, adding the port wine, if desired. Form into balls with the hands, previously well floured, and fry a light brown in butter. This forcemeat can also be used for stuffing a roasted hare. The bacon may be omitted, and suet, finely minced, may be substituted for the butter. Stuffing for Fowl, etc. Ingredients. —1 breakfast cupful of bread-crumbs ; \ lb. of pork sausage-meat or suet ; 1 table- spoonful of finely chopped parsley; a little salt and pepper ; 1 egg. Method.—Mix the bread-crumbs, meat, parsley, and seasoning thoroughly together, then add the egg- Sage and Onion Stuffing. Ingredients. — 3 or 4 onions 5 ~ lb. bread-crumbs ; 1 oz. of but- ter ; 1 teaspoonful of dry powdered sage ; 1 egg ; pepper and salt. Method. — Put the onions into cold water and bring them to the boil ; take them out, and throw them into fresh boiling water, in order to extract the strong flavour. Boil for fifteen minutes. Prepare the bread-crumbs, season them rather highly with pepper, add the sage, butter (broken into small pieces), and salt. Chop the onion finely, and mix all together with the yolk of the egg. The egg can be left out if wished. Sweet Stuffing for Turkey. Ingredients.—1 lb. grated bread- crumbs ; 6 oz. of currants (cleaned with flour) ; 6 oz. of suet ; 1 hand- ful of parsley; 1 teacupful of sweet milk ; 1 egg; a little salt and pepper. Method.—Mince the suet very finely, also the parsley, after wash- ing it well. Mix all the ingredients thoroughly together, adding the egg and milk last of all. The same stuffing does for goose, with the addition of two small onions. Stuffing for Veal or Turkey. Ingredients. — 4 oz. of bread- crumbs ; the grated rind of ^ lemon ; some finely chopped pars- ley : a teaspoonful of dried and powdered thyme; a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg; 2 oz. of butter ; 1 egg. Method.—Cut the bread from a stale loaf, grate it very finely, and mix with it the grated lemon-peel, parsley, thyme, and seasoning. Break into this the butter in small bits, then add the egg (unbeaten), and work the whole well together until it is quite smooth. Suet, finely minced, may be substituted for the butter, but it is not so good. On ordinary occasions half an ounce of the butter may be omitted ; and, if preferred, some of the thyme and parsley can be left out, and a little marjo.rani 0£ swee^ basil used instead,