157 MISCELLANEOUS. place for seven or eight days. Then put the fruit into a jelly - bag, and allow all the liquid to drop from it without pressure. Add the sugar in the above pro- portion, and boil the syrup over a clear fire for twelve or fourteen minutes, stirring occasionally. When cold pour into bottles, and cover with perforated paper. Keep in a cool, dry place. Rice Croquettes. Ingredients.—1 cupful of rice ; 1 egg, well beaten ; 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and the same of melted butter ; a very little nutmeg; salt. Method.—Boil the rice until soft, and let it get 'perfectly cold and stiff. Beat up the egg, sugar, butter, salt and nutmeg well together. Work this mixture into the rice, stirring and beating until all the ingredients are thoroughly blended and mixed into a smooth paste. Make, with floured hands, into oblong rolls, about three inches in length, and half an inch in diameter. Cover these thickly with flour, and set them in a cold place until needed. Fry—a few at a time—in hot clarified dripping, rolling them over as they begin to brown to preserve their shape. As each is taken from the fat, put into a hot colander to drain and dry. Croquettes are eaten as a vegetable, but they make a good after-meat course, eaten with powdered sugar or sweet sauce. Savoury Rice. Ingredients.— 1 onion ; 1 teacup- ful of rice ; 1 dessert-spoonful of butter: 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water ; 1 tablespoonful of corn- flour • 1 teacupful of milk ; 1 j egg; pepper and salt; some boil- ing water. Method.—Chop up the onion ; pour the boiling water over it; let it stand for about ten minutes, then drain it dry. Next put it in a loot, with the rice (well washed), the butter, the cupfuls of water, and a little pepper and salt. Let the whole boil slowly for nearly half an hour, taking care that the pot is closely covered. Then add the cornflour, milk, and egg (beaten up), with seasoning to taste; stir over the fire for a minute or two ; turn out into a dish, and brown the top either in front of the fire or in the oven. Roties k la Minime. Ingredients. — Some slices of bread ; a little oil ; some slices of well-washed anchovy or sardines; a little minced shalot, parsley, green onions; minced thyme; sweet basil; a bay-leaf ; some whole pepper ; a little vinegar. Method.—Cut the slices of bread about two fingers’ length and the thickness of a crown-piece; put them into a stewpan, with a little oil, over a gentle fire ; turn them often till they acquire a good colour. Dress them on the dish, and lay some slices of the well- washed anchovy or sardines on them. Add to the oil in which you fried the bread the minced shallot, parsley, green onion, minced thyme, sweet basil, the bay-leaf, whole pepper, and vine- gar ; boil it a moment, pour over the toast, and serve cold. The bay-leaf, sweet herbs, and pepper to be removed. Chicken Salad. Ingredients.—2 eggs ; 1 gill of salad oil; ^ cold boiled chicken •