Miscellaneous- Anchovy Toast. Ingredients.—A few anchovies ; some dried parsley ; half a clove of garlic ; a little cayenne ; a few drops of lemon-juice ; a very little salad oil. Method.—Bone the anchovies, and pound them in a mortar, or mince them very fine with the other ingredients. Serve on toasted hread, or bread fried in oil. Baking-Powder. Ingredients.—1 oz. and ^ a tea- spoonful of carbonate of soda ; 1 oz. of tartaric acid ; 1 oz. of rice- flour. Method.—Mix all together and pound till perfectly smooth. Put in a bottle, and cork tightly. To Brown Bread-crumbs. Put the crumbs on a tin and bake them a golden brown colour in the oven ; or toast some very thin pieces of stale bread; dry them in the oven, then pound them with a rolling-pin. Croutons of Bread. Cut stale bread into dice ; fry them in clarified butter a delicate brown; drain, and serve on a neatly folded napkin. Cherokee Sauce. Ingredients.—1 gallon vinegar ; 1^ oz. capsicum ; 1 pint Indian soy ; 1 pint mushroom ketchup ; 1 oz. garlic. Method.—Bruise well the capsi- cum and garlic ; put them into a jug or wide-mouthed bottle. Pour over them the boiling vinegar. When cold, add soy and ketchup. Put into well-corked bottles, and keep for a month before using. Chicken Blocks. Ingredients.—1 very thick slice of bread ; 2 tablespoonfuls of milk ; 2 eggs ; lb. of cooked chicken ; 1 oz. of butter; \ oz. of flour; 1 gill of stock; salt; pepper; 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and some hot clarified fat. Method.—Let the bread be about two inches thick. Cut it into squares, remove the crust, and make breadcrumbs of the odd bits. (If a cottage loaf is used, take the top half of it.) Place the milk on a plate, and dip into it each side of the blocks of bread. Then pour away the milk ; and beating up the whites of the eggs (not to a froth), roll the blocks in them, and after- wards in the breadcrumbs (on paper). Cut up the chicken into small pieces. Melt in a small saucepan the butter, adding first the flour and then the stock, and mix over the fire while boiling. Then add some salt and pepper, the lemon juice, and the chicken ; mix well again ; then draw the mixture on one side to keep hot. In the centre of each block make a little round incision. Drop each block separately into the hot clari-