POULTRY AND GAME. 72 6 young pigeons ; the yolks of 6 hard-boiled eggs ; £ oz. of mixed salt and pepper; a* sprinkle of minced parsley ; a very little cay- enne pepper ; 1 wine-glassful of veal stock ; puff-paste. (See * Pastry.’) Method.—Put the beef-steak (not cut too thick) in the bottom of a pie-dish; truss and prepare the pigeons, arrange them in the dish, and between each pigeon place one of the hard - boiled yolks ; season with the salt, pepper, pars- ley, and cayenne ; add the veal- stock, cover with puff-paste and bake one hour. Roast Pigeons. Ingredients. — Some pigeons ; a few slices of bacon ; butter ; pepper and salt. Method.—Truss the pigeons for roasting, having previously washed and cleaned them thoroughly. Season them inside with pepper and salt; tie some slices of bacon round them, and roast before a clear fire for about half an hour, basting constantly with butter. Serve with gravy and bread-sauce, or sauce piquante. (See ‘ Sauces.’) If the pigeons are to be eaten cold the dish should be garnished with watercresses,nasturtiums and borage flowers, and the heart- leaves of cabbage lettuces. Salad mixture should also be served with them. Baked Rabbit. Ingredients.—1 young rabbit; 2 onions sliced ; 5 cloves ; flour ; pepper and salt. Method.—Wash the rabbit tho- roughly, cut it into small pieces and place it in a stew-pot, along with the cloves, onions, and about pint of water. Cover closely, and bake in a moderate oven for three hours. Make a thickening of flour and water, mixing with it the seasoning, and add it to the gravy jjr hour before dishing. Boiled Rabbits. Ingredients. — 2 young rabbits ; 1 or 2 slices of bacon; veal stuffing (see ‘ Forcemeat,’ etc.) ; 1 stick of celery ; 2 or 3 turnips, sliced ; 2 or 3 carrots, sliced ; 6 onions ; pepper and salt; a little cream, or milk. Method.—Clean the rabbits well, and truss them as for roasting (removing the eyes). Leave the kidneys in their natural place; put the liver and heart inside the belly with the slices of bacon (if liked), and fill up the remainder of the cavity with veal stuffing; sew up the opening with needle and thread. Put the rabbits thus prepared into a stewpan, with plenty of cold water ; let them come to the boil over a moderate fire, then add the celery, cut small, and other vege- tables. When boiling again, skim, then simmer gently by the side of the fire until all is cooked enough —about an hour altogether. Take out the onions, put them into a basin, season with pepper and salt, and with a wooden spoon mash them smooth with a little cream or milk. Heat thoroughly in a saucepan, previously rinsed with a little of the gravy to prevent burning. Place the rabbits side by side on a dish, with the head of one against the tail of the other, and pour the mashed onions over them. It is an improvement to boil a small piece of bacon with the rabbits. Serve the bacon on a separate dish with the turnips and carrots round it.