39 FISH. boils, add the pieces of lobster, and cook the whole very slowly for about an hour. When ready to serve, draw the pan from the fire, and stir in the milk or cream and a little lemon-juice. Do not allow it to boil after this. Serve with boiled rice, in a separate dish. Tinned lobster may be used in- stead of fresh lobster. A little more than half of a pound tin will be required. To Boil Mackerel. (See ‘To Boil Herring.’) Broiled Mackerel. Ingredients.—1 mackerel ; 2 oz. of butter ; pepper and salt. Method. — Clean the mackerel well, then split it through the back bone with a sharp knife. Lay it on the broiler, previously slightly greased to prevent the fish from sticking to it, and cook it for about ten minutes over a quick clear fire. When done, place it on a hot dish; snread the butter, mixed with the pepper and salt, over it; and serve as quickly as possible. The dish may be garnished with quarters of lemon and parsley. Creamed Mackerel. (American Recipe.) Ingredients.—1 salt mackerel; 1 cupful of boiling water ; 1 tea- spoonful (heaped up) of cornflour; 2 teaspoonfuls of butter ; 1 tea- spoonful of vinegar; a little pep- per ; a little minced parsley. Method.—Wash, and soak the mackerel all night in cold water. In the morning, to prepare it for breakfast, dry it thoroughly in a clean towel, being careful to leave no salt crystals in the creases of the fish ; place in a pan of boiling water, and let it cook steadily for half an hour. In the meantime make the sauce in the following manner : Put the cupful of boiling water into a saucepan; then into this the cornflour, butter, vinegar, and pepper ; keep stirring the whole over the fire until it is quite smooth and as thick as custard, when add the minced parsley if you have it. Pour this over the fish, previously drained, and laid on a hot dish. Cover, and let it stand five minutes in a warm place before serving. Oysters Stewed in their own Juice. (Scotch Recipe.) Ingredients.—Some large oysters; salt. Method.—Take the largest oys- ters you can get ; wash them through their own juice ; lay them close together in a frying-pan; sprinkle them with a little salt. Make them a fine brown on both sides. When they are all done, pour some of their liquor into the pan, mixing it with any that may be left from their cooking. Let it boil a minute or two. Pour it over the oysters, and serve very hot. To Fry Plaice or Flounders. First sprinkle the fish with salt, and let them lie for two or three hours. Then wash and clean them well; wipe them dry, flour them, and wipe them again with a clean cloth. Dip them in egg and very fine bread-crumbs, and fry them in plenty of lard. Plaice, it is said, can be made less watery by being beaten gently with a rolling-pin before being cooked. Crimped Skate. Ingredients.—Fresh skate; salt. Method—Take the fish, which