pcMes. The first requirement in successful pickling is that the materials should be of the best—that the vegetables should be thoroughly good, and that the vinegar should be of superlative quality. Then care should be taken to heat the pickles in an enamelled saucepan or a stone jar, metal vessels being injurious, and to be avoided. For ladling from the pan or jar, wooden spoons should be used ; and the pickles should be pre- served, not in earthenware, but in jars of ?tone or glass—the smaller -the jars the better. In the case of earthenware, the vinegar acts in- juriously on the glazed surface. The pickles should always be kept covered with vinegar, and should be put away in a cupboard or pantry known to be dry. Pickled Beetroot. Ingredients. — Beetroots ; best white vinegar; 1 teaspoonful of salt; ^ oz. of allspice ; \ oz. of whole pepper to each quart of vinegar. Method. — Choose medium-sized beetroots ; wash them very clean, but on no account scrape, cut, or prick them, or they will lose their beautiful colour. Throw them into boiling water, and let them simmer gently for about one hour and a half or two hours. When quite cold, peel them carefully, and cut them into thin slices ; place in glass jars and cover them with the vinegar, previously boiled (for ten minutes), with the salt, allspice and pepper, and allow to get per- fectly cold. Cover closely with bladder, and in a week they will be ready for use. Pickled Bed Cabbage. Ingredients.—1 fine red cabbage ; salt; 1 pint of best white vinegar ; 1 teaspoonful of peppercorns ; 4 cloves. Method.—Wash the cabbage well, taking off all the decayed outside leaves ; cut it in quarters, and shred it very finely, having previously removed the stalks. Put a layer of the cabbage into a sieve, and strew salt thickly over it; proceed in this way until all the cabbage is used. Let it stand two days, turn- ing it frequently, so that all the moisture may drain from it, then put it into glass jars. Boil the vinegar with the above ingredients, and pour it boiling over the cab- bage. When cold, tie down with bladder, and in a week or two it will be fit for use.