59 MEATS. plenty of salt and water, and wash it thoroughly. Having removed the tongue and brains, tie the head into shape with string, put it with the tongue into a saucepan of boil- ing water, and simmer gently for about four hours. Meanwhile, let the brains soak in salt and water for an hour or two to clean them and draw out the blood; a quarter of an hour before the head is cooked add the brains tied in muslin. Make a thickening of butter and flour, add some broth from the sheep’s head, also pepper, salt, and a few drops of lemon-juice or vinegar; stir well, and boil. When done, place the head on a hot dish and remove the string. Add the brains, chopped small, to the sauce ; pour over the head, and serve. Sheep’s Head Pie. Ingredients. — 1 good white sheep’s head and feet; some thin slices of bacon ; some hard-boiled eggs (sliced); pepper, salt, mace, and ginger ; some nice beef gravy; puff-paste. (See ‘ Pastry.’) Method. — The head and feet having been singed and cleaned, place them in a saucepan and let them simmer at the side of the fire for five or six hours. Remove the bones, and cut the head and feet neatly into small pieces. Take a pie-dish, and at the bottom of it place a layer of sheep’s head, over which sprinkle a mixture of the pepper, salt, mace, and ginger. On this place a layer of bacon, and then one of egg. Continue this process till the dish is filled, and then add the gravy. Cover with paste, and bake for an hour and a half. In Scotland oysters are used instead of eggs, and this is un- doubtedly to be desired, when it is possible. Irish Stew. (An economical Family Dish.) Ingredients. — 3 lb. of potatoes ; 2 lb. of mutton-chops off the loin or neck (cut thin) ; 3 or 4 onions ; pepper, salt, and water. Method.—Peel the potatoes, cut them into thin slices, and boil them for a quarter of an hour to extract the unwholesome water. Cut the fat from the chops, beat them slightly, and place them in an enamelled stewpan with alternate layers of potatoes and onions cut into very thin rings. Season each layer well. The saucepan should be so closely packed that only a small quantity of water will be re- quired to fill it. Cover with a tightly fitting lid, and stew very gently for three hours. Sheep’s Kidneys. Ingredients. — Sheep’s kidneys ; cold water ; some fat bacon ; salt and pepper; butter; bread-crumbs (finely grated). Method.—Soak the kidneys for a few minutes in cold water; re- move the skin, cut them open, but do not quite separate them. Lard them with very fine strips of fat bacon, skewer them flat, and sprinkle with pepper and salt. Melt some butter (3 or 4 oz.) in a frying - pan ; dip the kid- neys first into the butter, then into the fiiTely grated crumbs; place them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and turn once or twice. A simpler way is to split and skin the kidneys, dip them in clarified butter, broil over a clear fire (sea- soning while cooking), and serve on slices of fried bread.