FORCEMEAT, ETC. 95 pared in this way are an excellent will find it not only efficacious but purgative. One walnut will be a agreeable to the taste, sufficient dose for a child, who forcemeat, etc. ‘Plodding perseverance,’ says Jekyll, ‘may make a good roaster, and careful observance of rules a tolerable compounder of a made- dish ; but the true maker of forcemeat, like the true poet, must be born.’ The fact is that the composition and use of stuffing must depend very much upon circumstances and the cook. All forms of forcemeat have for basis bread-crumbs bound together by egg, but, beyond that, there is an almost limitless field for ingenuity. Spiced beef, grated ham, boiled livers, hard eggs, sausage, pickled oysters, lobster, crawfish, shrimps, anchovy, caviare, mushrooms, truffles, chestnuts, chopped onions, garlics, curry powder, etc., etc., may all be used as relishes, and it is for the cook to say what and how much shall be used, according to the dish that she is preparing. All that she has to look to is that the herbs and spices are care- fully selected and compounded, no one relish being allowed to pre- dominate over the others. The whole should be blended together as artistically as possible. Egg-Balls for Soups and Made Dishes. Ingredients. — Some hard-boiled eggs ; flour ; pepper and salt. Method. — Boil the eggs for twenty minutes; place them in cold water for a minute to cool, then remove the shells, ' Take out the yolks and pound them in a mortar, or rub them to a powder with a wooden spoon; add suffi- cient flour and raw egg to make them into a stiff paste, season with pepper and salt, and make up in the form of balls the size of a marble. Boil in water for less than a minute, then add them to any made dishes or soups for which they may be required. Imitation Foie Gras. Ingredients. — £ lb. of calf’s liver; l lb. of bacon ; 1 carrot; 1 onion ; a bunch of herbs ; pepper and salt. Method.—Cut up the meat and vegetables, chop the herbs, and fry all together till well cooked, taking care that the liver does not brown. Add the pepper and salt, pound the whole in a mortar, pass through a wire sieve, and the forcemeat will be ready for use. This is ex- cellent, and may be used for a variety of dishes. Forcemeat Balls for Jugged Hare. Ingredients.—4 oz. of stale bread- crumbs ; a piece of lemon-peel; a spoonful of finely chopped parsley and thyme ; a little salt, pepper; and nutmeg; liver of hare ; 2 oz. of rasped bacon ; 2§ oz. of butter ; 1 egg ; 1 wine-glassful of port wine, if desired.