ADVERTISEMENTS. London: John Hogg, 13, Paternoster Row, E.0. POPULAR COOKERY BOOKS. Medium 16mo., 128 pages, boards, printed in brown ink, price Is. 1. What shall we have for Breakfast? or, Everybody’s Breakfast Book. Containing over 175 Recipes. By Agnes C. Maitland, Author of “ The Afternoon Tea-Book.” “An epicure, or rather a glutton, might after reading Miss Maitland’s book answer her title question by saying, ‘Everything you have got here, please.’ It is a worthy little book.”—Manchester Guardian. Dedicated to H.R.H. the Duchess of ALBANY. Second Edition. Eleventh Thousand. Medium 16mo., price Is. 2. The Afternoon Tea Book. How to make Tea, Coffee, Chocolate, Cakes, Scones, Rolls, Sandwiches, Cooling Drinks, and Ices. By Agnes C. Maitland. “A most useful little manual.”—Glasgow Herald. Crown 8vo., 160 pages, price Is., strongly bound in linen cloth. 3. The Cookery Primer for School and Home Use. By Agnes C. Maitland. The Book contains One Hundred and Twenty-five Recipes for very Cheap Wholesome Dishes, Hints for Hard Times, Remarks about the Right Kinds of Food, Prices of Various Foods, Specimen Breakfasts, How to Spend the Money and do the Cooking, About Cooking Pans and Tins, Best Ways of Cooking Meat, How to Cook Fish, Invalid Cookery, etc. The Cookery Primer will be found very useful in Elementary Schools, as well as in Cottage Homes. Eleventh edition, crown 8vo., 392 pp., cloth, price 3s. 6d. 4. Dainty Dishes. Receipts collected by Lady Harriet St. Clair (late Countess Munster). Thirteenth Edition, crown 8vo., 156 pp., artistic paper boards, price Is. 5. Dainty Dishes. Cheap Edition. Price Is. “That it has reached its twelfth edition vouches for the popularity of this little book.” —Pall Moll Gazette. “We have rarely seen a book in which so much information has been compressed into so small a space.”— The Chef. Third and Enlarged Edition (Thirteenth Thousand), crown 8vo. 180 pp., artistic paper boards, price Is. 6. Toothsome Dishes : Fish, Flesh, and Fowl; Soups, Sauces, and Sweets. Nearly One Thousand Recipes, with Household Hints and other Useful Information. Edited by Carrie Davenport. “Just the work for a domestic manager to consult and esteem."—Daily Telegraph. Crown 8vo., 128 pages, boards, price Is. 7. The Housewife’s Handy-book. Three Hundred and Fifty Useful Every-day Recipes. By C. J. S. Thompson. Author of “ The Best Thing to Do,” etc. “ An exceedingly useful supplement to an ordinary cookery or household book. . . . Another class of recipes is for toilet preparations.”—Sheffield Independent. 8. Drinks pf all Kinds, Hot and Cold, for all Seasons (including Temperance and Restorative Drinks). By Frederick and Seymour Davies. Fcap. 8vo., 152 pp., price Is. “ This is a capital little manual, containing numerous recipes for the best summer and winter drinks, both British and ForeignSheffield Independent. 9. Cookery for Invalids and Others. See opposite page.