PUDDINGS. 115 it a Layer of jam not reaching quite to the edge, roll the pudding up, and pinch the ends well to- gether. Flour a cloth, tie in the roly-poly, and boil for two hours. Sago Pudding. Ingredients.—1 quart of milk ; sugar to taste; the rind of £ lemon; 4 tablespoonfuls of sago ; 1 egg. Method.—Put the milk into a saucepan with the lemon-peel and sugar. When it boils, take out the peel and add the sago, pre- viously well washed. Let it sim- mer until thick, stirring occasion- ally, then pour it into a buttered pudding-dish. When slightly cool, add the egg, well beaten., Bake in a moderate oven for about an hour. The egg may be omitted ; or, if a richer pudding is desired, more eggs may be added. Sago with Apples. Ingredients.—1 cupful of sago ; 1 cupful of hot water; 4 or 5 apples ; 1 tablespoonful of sugar ; ir pint of cream, and a little cin- namon. Method.—Soak the sago in the hot water for ten minutes ; cut up the apples, and put them on to simmer gently in a breakfast cup- ful of water till soft, then add the sago, sugar, and cinnamon, and stew for seven or eight minutes. Serve with the cream. Steamed Sago Pudding. Ingredients.—1 large cupful of sago ; 1 pint milk ; 4 eggs ; sugar; essence of lemon. Method.—Steep the sago in the milk, and stir well till thoroughly mixed. Then beat up with sugar, 4 yolks, and essence of lemon. Whip the 4 whites half an hour before use. Then mix all together, put into a mould, and steam about half an hour in a pint of boiling water, being careful not to let the water touch the pudding. Serve with arrowroot sauce. Scrap Pudding. Ingredients. — f lb. any odd scraps of bread ; 1 pint of boiling water ; 1 teaspoonful of powdered ginger; \teacupful of moist sugar; \ lb. of currants (washed and dried) ; 1 teacupful of milk ; some pieces of butter. Method.—Pour the boiling water over the bread. Let it stand till the water is cool, then press it well out, and mash the bread smooth with a spoon; add the ginger, sugar, currants, and milk ; mix all thoroughly together ; turn into a well-buttered dish ; flatten it down with the back of a spoon, place some small pieces of butter on the top, and bake a nice brown in a moderate oven. Semolina Pudding. Ingredients.—\\ pint of milk ; sugar to taste ; 3 tablespoonfuls of the best Italian semolina : a few drops of any flavouring ; 2 or 3 eggs. Method.—Boil the milk with the sugar, then add the semolina, and stir over the fire till it becomes tolerably thick. Pour into a basin, and when cool mix in the eggs, well beaten, and the flavouring. Put the whole into a buttered pudding-dish, and bake for about an hour in a moderate oven. Snow Pudding. Ingredients.—1 oz. of gelatine ; 5 oz. of loaf-sugar ; 3 eggs; 2 small or 1 large lemon ; 3 break- fast cupfuls of boiling water. Method.— Put the gelatine into a saucepan with the sugar and 8—2