FISH. 41 the fire, but do not let it quite boil. Cut from each slice of bread one large round, and within each circle cut a smaller one, going rather less than half-way through the bread; but do not yet take this smaller circle right out. Put a little milk on a plate, and dip the rounds in it on both sides. In the same way dip then into the bread-crumbs (seasoned), and then into the egg, which should be well beaten. Fry the bread-rounds in hot lard till a light brown ; then take them out, and cut from them with a knife the inner circle, leaving a hollow. Scrape this a little deeper, and fill in with the prepared sal- mon. Serve on a napkin while very hot. Salmon. Pie. Ingredients. — 2 lb. of salmon ; 5 lb. of bread-crumbs; some chop- ped parsley ; 2 oz. of butter ; 2 eggs ; 1 gill of cold water; pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Take a pie-dish, and put at the bottom of it a layer of bread-crumbs, parsley, and season- ing, mixed well together. Cut the salmon into thin slices, and place a layer of it over the bread-crumbs and parsley. Proceed in this way until all the material is used. Then beat the two eggs well, add to them the water, and pour over the pie ; put the butter, in small lumps, on the top, and bake in a moderate oven for three quarters of an hour. Flounder, haddock, halibut, etc., may also be done in this way. Salmon Pudding. Ingredients. — 1 lb. of cold boiled salmon; 8 tablespoonfuls of browned bread-crumbs; 1 teaspoon- ful of anchovy paste; 1 gill of cream 4 eggs ; 1 teaspoonful of salt; 1 grain of cayenne. Method.—Take a small mould and butter it well ; then sprinkle a thin layer of the brown bread- crumbs over the greased surface. Kemove all bone and skin from the salmon, chop it finely, and mix it thoroughly with the remainder of the bread-crumbs and with the anchovy paste ; add the seasoning, and moisten the whole with the cream and the eggs, well beaten. Press the mixture firmly and smoothly into the mould, and put a piece of buttered paper on the top. Place the mould in a sauce- pan half filled with boiling water, and boil for an hour. Tinned sal- mon may be used for this dish. Salmon Steaks. Ingredients. — Salmon - steaks (about % inch thick) ; some dis- solved butter ; pepper and salt. Method. — Dip the steaks in dissolved butter, sprinkle them with pepper and salt, and wrap them up in greased paper so that the butter cannot escape. Place them on a gridiron over a moderate fire, and keep them there for a quarter of an hour or rather more, turning them frequently mean- while. Serve on a hot dish, con- taining a little dissolved butter. Salmon-steaks, as above prepared, can also be cooked in a stewpan, with a little butter ; but the cook- ing must be done slowly. A third way is to fry them, also very slowly, with a little butter, in a frying- pan. Salt Fish. (^. la Maitre d’H6tel.) Boil the fish according to the following recipe ; or, taking the