43 FISH. To Bake Soles. Ingredients.—Say, 2 good soles ; 3 or 4 oz. of fresh butter; a little salt; some cayenne; 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovies ; a little lemon-juice; a little pale gravy; some store sauce ; bread-crumbs ; minced parsley; and some shrimps. Method. — Clarify the butter, and pour it into the dish in which the soles are to be cooked ; add to it the salt, cayenne, anchovy-sauce, lemon-juice, gravy, and store-sauce. Put into the dish the soles, pre- viously cleaned and wiped dry ; place between them a layer of shrimps ; sprinkle over them a thick layer of bread-crumbs and minced parsley; moisten them with clarified butter; and put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake for a quarter of an hour. To Boil Soles. Let the sole be thoroughly fresh. If it be a large one, clean and wash it well (not skinning it); cover it with cold water, and put in a little salt and vinegar ; then, when the water boils, skim it well, and let the fish simmer very slowly for five or ten minutes. If the sole be small, it should be skinned and put in warm water, and it will be ready for the table after five minutes’ simmering. It should be served with the white skin up- wards. Send to table with shrimp, lobster, or anchovy sauce and dressed cucumber. Another way is to sprinkle the sole with salt and let it lie in vinegar (about 3 large spoonfuls) for a while before boiling it. Then put it, with the vinegar, into hot white stock, well seasoned, or into hot water in which an onion with a little salt and a few peppercorns have been boiled. Let it come gradually to the boil; then simmer about five minutes ; drain and serve plain, or with parsley sauce. Soles are very appetizing, cooked in this way. To Fry Soles. An hour or two before the soles are wanted for table, skin, empty, and wash them with great care; wipe them very dry, both inside and out; replace the roes ; fold and press the soles gently in a soft, clean cloth, and leave them there until, it is time to fry them. Then cover them in every part first with beaten egg, and next with fine stale bread-crumbs. Melt—in a large and perfectly clean frying- pan, over a brisk fire—as much pure-flavoured lard as will suffice to float the fish, and, before they are laid in it, take care that it is sufficiently hot to brown them quickly. A good way for the be- ginner is to throw in a small piece of bread when the fat ceases to bubble ; if it takes a good colour immediately, the soles may be put in at once. But before putting them in, take them by the head and shake all the loose crumbs off them. When they are firm and of a fine amber colour on one side, turn them on to the other by pass- ing a fork through their head and a fish-slice under them. Then, when browned on this side also, lift them out of the pan, and press them lightly between pieces of hot white blotting-paper. Dish them on a drainer covered with a hot napkin, and send them to table at once with shrimp or anchovy sauce and plain melted butter. Sole au Gratin. Ingredients, — 1 sole ; brown bread-crumbs ; 1 dessert-spoonful