154 BR W. AINSLIE HOLLIS. with endarteritis proliferens is far from unusual. The two cases from which the photographs were taken to illustrate these remarks were both of them affected with extensive aortic atheroma. In cases of advanced atheroma, the blood must repeatedly convey, besides its proper corpuscular elements, the granular detritus washed from the surface of a crumbling patch of intima. Whatever may be the ultimate destination of these particles matters not as regards our present inquiry. It m evident that many, if not all, of them will strike against the walls of the vessels through which they pass ; and, other things being equal, the smaller the artery, the more frequently will such accidents probably happen. The repeated impact of foreign material against the living walls of a small artery will, I assume, mainly produce two results,—first: an immediate reaction of the endothelium, subjected to the blows. What this reaction consists in remains at present unknown. Possibly it may take the form of active molecular changes in the affected cells, to which the words ' stimulation' or ' irritation' may be applicable. Subsequently, and as a consequence of this irritation, secondary effects will arise, the chief one of which is probably a spasmodic contraction of the muscular coat. Now, I wish to show in the following pages that the histology of endarteritis proliferens singles out these two structures, the endothelium and the con- tractile media, as specially affected in this disease. All the evidence, then, at my disposal points to the presence of foreign particles in the blood as an important factor in the causation of endarteritis proliferens, whatever else may occasionally induce it. Histology.—The sections described in this paper were prepared in a similar manner : they were first hardened in a 10 per cent, solution of formalin; then stained, and finally mounted in canada balsam. Although text-books have repeatedly described and illustrated, oftentimes diagrammatically, the transverse section of healthy artery, perhaps I may be permitted to give a photo- graph of the intima of a popliteal artery from a 6-7 months foetus which died in lotcro, and was removed at its mother's autopsy. It is important to compare the inner surface of an artery absolutely free from the suspicion of contamination