2 De. Renton—Notes on Surgical Cases. and the depressed portions of bone on the right side, after exposure by dissection of a large flap, elevated, the rongeur forceps being used to ettect this; the brain was lacerated, and a considerable amount of blood-clot was removed. The portions of bone were placed in position, a catgut drain inserted—the periosteum was so torn that it was not possible to unite it—and the wound was united with catgut sutures. The child's progress was satisfactory, the power retiirning to the leg slightly during the night after the operation, and completely so by the fourth day after, as also that of the face; the power returned to the arm more gradually, but two months after the operation the movement was restored in a great measure. The only point noted was that the hand was a little unsteady when used for three minutes, but that is gradually passing off. G. P., get. 15, admitted, having fallen from a baker's van an hour previously. Punctured wound was found to exist in the left parietal region above and behind the ear. Two hours after admission patient was drowsy, dilatation of right pupil and right facial paralysis existing. Tongue deflected to the right when protruded. Two hours later, operation—a flap of skin turned down, and the skull trephined on site of punctured fracture; no brain pulsation; dura opened, blood escaped freely, and a small collection of blood was evacuated from the brain substance underlying. Catgut drain inserted and the wound closed by catgut stitches. The day following the operation paralysis was gone, and the tongue could be protruded in the middle line. The patient progressed satisfactorily, and was dismissed well. J. B., set. 15, was admitted, suffering from epileptic attacks affecting the left side of the body. The patient had faUen off a stool 4 feet high, and was confused for a few minutes, but was able to walk home ; a fortnight after the injury the fits com- menced and she was brought to the Infirmary. Dr. Walker and the special nurse noted the fits, and found that they always commenced in the left arm, spreading to the six days after admission trephining was carried out oyer the arm centre on right side, the opening being enlarged with forceps; the brain pulsation was diminished. On opening the dura and feeling the brain substance it was evident that a