ENDAETEEITIS PEOLIFEEENS. By W. Ainslie Hollis, M.D. Cantab., F.E.G.P. Lond., Senior Physician to the Sussex County Hospital. c Pathogenesis.—Kndsivieritifi prolifereus vel obliterans is essen- tially a disease of the smaller vessels ; and it so far differs from atheroma, which attacks by preference the aorta and the large central arteries. Besides this difference in the distribution of the two diseases, their incidence locally and their subsequent evolution are dissimilar. These peculiarities have led some pathologists to assume—wrongly, I believe, although perhaps not unnaturally—that their etiology must necessarily be unlike. In a series of papers published elsewhere,^ I have adduced reasons for the belief that in many instances atheroma is due to the occasional presence of obnoxious foreign particles in the blood stream. Whether these small particles are in every case the true etiological factors of atheroma is likely to remain a debatable question for some time to come. Meanwhile, the provisional acceptance of such an hypothesis appears more reasonable to my mind than to assume a knowledge of its causation by vaguely ascribing atheroma to senility, mental worry, or overwork, as is now too often done. On the other hand, the etiology of endarteritis proliferens does not present quite the same difficulty that atheroma does, because pathologists are in a general accordance when they describe this disease as one " brought about, as a rule, by some general irritant, which affects the arteries, along with the connective tissue of the organ generally." 2 Here, however my interpretation of the word 'irritant' may differ consider'ably from that of the authors quoted. From the examples of this disease which have come under my notice, and to which special reference will be made in this paper, the association of atheroma ' /o«r«. Path avd BaclcTiol., London, vol. 3, pp. 1 cl scq. Tr. Royal Med ^mr. HOC, vol. Ixxvii. p. 69, ' Ibid., vol. iv. p. 83. Paper by Dis Coats and Auld.