DR W. AINSLIE HOLLIS. 160 dotted projections represent nucleated endothelium. What the undotted spaces depict is not stated, although in one figure about 50 p.c. of the margin, and in the other fully a fourth, is so drawn. I assume that the artists intended to show by the blank spaces their inability to see any nuclei at those parts. I do not wish to assert that one cell in every four, lining a normal artery, is without a visible nucleus, even in well stained sections, but I maintain that a considerable percentage of endothelial cells are normally without stained nuclei when seen as microscopic preparations (fig. 1). Now, the absence of a visible nucleus may theoretically, I take it, be due to three causes:—(1) It may not take the selected stain. In such cases, however, the outline of the nucleus is always faintly perceptible, if the light is rightly arranged. (2) The cell may never have had a nucleus,—a suggestion of little value. (3) Finally, the nucleus may have escaped from the cell, and consequently the latter was actually deuucleated at the time the section was made. The last explanation, in so far as it also seems specially applicable to the new cell formation of endarteritis proliferens, I shall here adopt as the true one. To resume the progressive history of this disease. When, through over-stimulation, the potential energy of a celled nucleus is converted into active movement, it may lead to the subdivision of the nucleus and the formation of daughter cells on the inner surface of the artery; or a part or the whole of the nucleus may escape through the cell-wall, producing two results, a free nucleus and a denucleated cell. When, by some such process, the natural folds of the intima have been locally obliterated, and the dilation of the artery consequently restricted (figs. 3 and 4), an interesting pathological cycle is apparently induced. As I have elsewhere stated, although we cannot follow the actual movements of a locomotory corpuscle in a stained and mounted section, we may frequently infer the direction in which it was travelling at the time of death from two considera- tions ; namely, that it would probably protrude its pseudopod towards the point it was making; or, secondly, that the vacant burrow it had ah-eady made whilst passing through the re- sistant tissues would be behind it. Viewing their probable movements in this light, I have come to the conclusion, as the