ENDARTERITIS PROLIFERENS. 159 passage through the firmer and more resistant tissues of the original arterial wall. According to my observations, then, it would appear that endarteritis proliferens affects an artery somewhat in the follow- ing manner. By the repeated impact of foreign particles against the sides of a small artery a state of ' irritation,' or ' molecular unrest,' as I prefer to call the condition, is established within certain endothelial cells. This unrest manifests itself physio- logically by, as it were, rousing the little central mass of nuclear plasm of the cell from its dormant condition to one of active movements. The nuclear disturbance is quickly made known to the vasomotor nerves, and contraction of the artery follows. Now, as we shall see more completely when I come to consider the formation of the tubular clot, this spasmodic contraction of the muscular coat of the vessel is, under such circumstances, about the worst misfortime that could happen. By occurring, as it probably does, during the passage of a cloud of noxious particles through the artery, it enhances the risk that is always present of some being retained within the folds of the intima, to form a still more permanent source of irritation. Hence it happens that the cells at the bottom of a longitudinal fold are more liable to disturbance from this cause than others situated elsewhere. Moreover, from the physical laxness of the tissues m the same situation migrating leucocytes will probably select the furrows as points of departure, a further source of ' molecular unrest' to the neighbouring endothelium. The existence of free nuclei in the walls of a blood-vessel almost suggests the presence of denucleated cells there. That such cells occur amidst the endothelium of a normal artery I feel confident; the more so, as their presence seems to have been tacitly admitted by some of the leading histologists and pathologists of the present day. I have before me at the time of writing two text-books, selected at random, one upon human histology, the other on practical pathology, each by well-known men. A cross-section of a normal artery forms one of the many beautiful figures with which each work is embellished. The lumen of the vessel, as drawn, is margined in either case by a series of dotted projections, alternating with others which are undotted. The text of each work informs the reader that the