Ajjpendix. 210 ties, or in delicate persons, wlien it produces an inclination to a refreshing sleep. . . . Koumiss is, among the nomads, the drink of all children from the suckling upward, the refreshment of the old and sick, the nourishment and greatest luxury of every one. The effect of koumiss shows itself in less than a week in a good nourishment of the whole body, an increase in strength and spirits, and a general feeling of health. The respiration is easier, the voice freer, the complexion brighter. . . . The diseases in which koumiss is beneficial are those where the body must be well nourished without loading the digestive organs. It seems too, that koumiss is specially use- ful in diseases of the lungs, bronchia, and larynx; I will not assert that it can cure consumption and phthisis, but it suits these conditions better than any other nourishment. It is cer- tain that among the Kirghis consumption and phthisis are very i-are—so, too pneumonia, senile asthma, and dropsy of the chest. Of tubercular consumption, and other phthisis, I have seen no example among the Kirghis.' " Dr. Neftel, who, twenty-three years after the visit of Dr. Dahl, was also sent by the Piussian government to the Kirghis Steppe, confirms the observations of his predecessor. ' Scrof- ulosis and rachitis are quite unknown among them; and, what is still more remarkable, I had opportunity to observe not one single case of lung tuberculosis although I sought for^ such eases with great attention.' To avoid repetition, I will simply cite one case given by Dr. Neftel relating to koumiss treatment. 'The patient, twenty-five years old, had always lived in St. Petersburg. Her physician there, a distinguished diagnostician, found tubercular infiltrations in both superior lobes of the lungs. During two years she coughed continually, with a rauco-prurient expectoration often tinged with blood, and she became very emaciated. All other physicians consulted by the patient con- firmed this diagnosis. ... The presence of cavities was clear- ly demonstrated, and a hectic fever set in. In this condition the patient, by my advice, left the city, passed the whole sum- mer in the steppe, in a Mbitka, and was methodically treated with koumiss. Her general condition gradually improved; she