Appendix. 221 di<rest unneeded food, which, if not thrown up, remains to pu- trefy and poison the blood." Dr. Page relates his experience with his own children (also others under his charge), who were brought up on the three-meals-a-day plan. He says they slept all ntght like older people. At the same time due attention was paid to ventilation. A little dropping of the upper win- dow always kept the room well aired; no swaddling clothes pinched the vital organs. He says: " If the child be fed and dressed properly, and is otherwise rationally managed, there will be no midnight orgies, no sleepless nights on baby's account, and it will soon, indeed in a very few days, become so regular in habit that the bundled, pinned-up squares, so sweltering and injurious, can be entirely dispensed with at night, and during its naps by day, and it may be safely laid down after supper for its ten or twelve hours of solid sleep." What Dr. Page considers a sufficient amount of diet is as follows: "No definite rule can be given for the amount of food necessary for a hand-fed babe at any given age. It will not, however, vary much from one pint for an infant of six months. This amount, divided into three meals at 6 a.m., 12 m. and 6 p.m., has, in my experience, always insured the best re- sults." This seems very little, yet undoubtedly babies are generally overfed. He also says: "During hot weather the child does not need as much food as in winter. . . . The baby should be allowed water frequently in summer." Dr. Dawson, of New York, discussing the same subject, says: " When treating vomiting, constipation, or diarrhoea in chil- dren, the stomach is given rest by cutting oflE all but a small quantity of food. Will we gain any benefit, I ask, from ejected or undigested food, even if it causes no severer disturbance?" Again he says: " Constipation, too, so common in otherwise healthy infants, is generally due to excessive and too-frequent feeding. The explanation is quite simple. The stomach be- ing overburdened with food, and consequently overtaxed with