227 Appendix. lung-poisoning atmosphere of few houses can resist its puri- fying influence; in spite of padded doors, weather-strips, and double windows, it reduces the in-door temperature enough to paralyze the floating disease germs. ... All Arctic travellers agree that among the natives of Iceland, Greenland, and Lab- rador pulmonary diseases are actually unknown. Protracted cold weather thus prevents epidemic catarrhs, but during the first thaw nature succumbs to art, ... the incubatory influence of the first moist heat is brought to bear on the lethargized catarrh germs. . . . Smouldering stove fires add their fumes to the effluvia of the dormitory ; superstition triumphs; the lung- poison operates, and the next morning a snuffling, coughing, and red-nosed family discuss the cause of their affliction. . . . The summer season brings relief;... the windows are partially opened. The long warm days offer increased opportunities for out-door rambles. ... No man can freeze himself into a catarrh. Tn cold weather the hospitals of our Northern cities sometimes receive patients with both feet and both hands frozen, . . . but without a trace of catarrhal affection. Duck hunters may wade all day in a frozen swamp without affecting the functions of their respiratory organs. Ice cutters not rare- ly come in for an involuntary plunge bath, and are obliged to let their clothes dry on their backs; it may result in a bowel complaint, but no catarrh. . . . Cold is a tonic that invigorates the respiratory organs when all other stimulants fail, and, com- bined with arm exercise and certain dietetic alteratives, fresh cold air is the best remedy for all the disorders of the lungs and upper air passages. ... If the fight is to be strong and de- cisive (for breaking up a cold), the resources of the adversary must be diminished by a strict fast. . . . But, aided by exercise, out-door air of any temperature will accomplish the same result. In two days a resolute pedestrian can walk away from a sum- mer catarrh of that malignant type that is apt to defy half- open windows. But the specific of the movement cure is arm exercise — a dumb-bell swinging, grapple-swing practice, and wood chopping. On a cold morning (for, after all, there are ten winter catarrhs to one in suinrner), a woodshed matinee