Ajp'pendix. 219 each bottleful of milk and water a teaspoonful of isinglass or of Mellin's Extract." ONE MONTH. " Having fixed upon the kind of food which is suitable to the child, we must next be careful that it is not given in too large quantities, or that the meals are not repeated too fre- quently. If the stomach be kept constantly overloaded, even ■with a digestible diet, the effect is almost as injurious as if the child were fed upon a less digestible food in more reasonable quantities. A healthy infant passes the greater part of his time asleep, waking at intervals to take nourishment. These intervals must not be allowed to be too short, and it is a great mistake to accustom the child to take food whenever it cries. From three to four ounces of liquid will be a sufficient quanti- ty during the first six weeks of life; and of this only a half or even a third part should consist of milk, according to the child's powers of digestion. After such a meal the infant should sleep quietly for at least two hours. Fretfulness and irritability in a very young baby almost always indicate indi- gestion and flatulence ; and if a child cries and whines un- easily, twisting about its body and jerking its limbs, a fresh meal given instantly, although it may quiet it for the mo- ment, will, after a short time, only increase the child's discom- fort." TWO MONTHS. "During the first six weeks or two months, two hours will be a sufficient interval between the meals; afterwards this in- terval can be lengthened, and at the same time a larger quan- tity may be given at each time of feeding. No more food should be prepared at once than is required for the particular meal. The position of the child as it takes food should be half reclining, as when taking food from the mother's breast, and the food should be given from a feeding-bottle. When the contents of the bottle are exhausted the child should not be allowed to continue sucking at an empty vessel, as by this means air is swallowed which might afterwards be a source of great discomfort"