Appendix. 204 their occasional medicinal use. The waste of the body may be going on with killing rapidity, as in fever, and then such med- icines may save life, provided always that the body has not become 'tolerant' of or partially insensible to them by daily usage. I once watched a dangerous case of typhoid fever. Acting under the instructions of skilful medical attendants, and aided by a clinical thermometer and a seconds-watch, I so ap- plied small doses of brandy at short intervals as to keep down both pulse and temperature within the limits of fatal combus- tion. The patient had scarcely tasted alcohol before this, and therefore it exerted its maximum efficacy. I was surprised at the certain response of both pulse and temperatave to this most valuable medicine and most pernicious beverage. " The argument that has been ihe most industriously urged in favor of all the vice-drugs, and each in its turn, is that misera- ble apology that has been made for every folly, every vice, ev- ery political abuse, every social crime (such as slavery, polyga- my, etc.), when the time has arrived for reformation. I cannot condescend to seriously argue against it, but merely state the fact that the widely diffused practice of using some kind of stimulating drug has been claimed as a sufficient proof of the necessity or advantage of such practice. I leave my readers to bestow on such a plea the treatment they may think it deserves. Those who believe that a rational being should have rational grounds for his conduct will treat this customary refuge of blind conservatism as I do." Mr. Williams, in his article, proceeds to give the views of certain scientists who have defended the use of the alkaloids. He speaks of Liebig's, or rather Nehmen's, theory, which was that the use of tea and coffee retarded the waste of the tissues of the body; also Johnston's theory, "Chemistry of Common Life," that if waste be lessened by the use of tea, less food is required. Mr. Williams says, regarding these theories : " All the popu- lar stimulants and refreshing drugs have two distinct and op- posite actions; an immediate exaltation, which lasts for a cer- tain period, varying with the drug and the constitution of its