Ajjpendix. 208 the use of starcb-bread the storaacli is greatly overtaxed in its effort to digest an immense amount of starcb, containing an insignificant portion of nitrogenous and mineral elements. The use of starch in excess is the rule in America. If assimilated, it is very liable to induce fatty degeneration of the tissues, and such diseases as depend upon this state. Atheroma of the cerebral arteries, with the attendant fat-globules, the weakened muscular coats, and the tendency to rupture and apoplexy, are all concomitants of the starchy diathesis. The esseutial feature of Bright's disease is fatty infiltration of the kidneys; while diabetes finds its chief allies in bread and potatoes. These formidable diseases may be guarded against by appropriate ali- mentary substances containing the needed proportions of all nutritive elements. But starch undigested is nearly as potent for evil as starch digested. The liver, burdened with white bread and potatoes, seems presently to be deprived of its power, etc. Koumiss. In the Medical Record is an article by Dr. E. F. Brush, of New York, in which he says: " Historically the study of kou- miss is very interesting. Homer speaks of the koumiss-mak- ing Hippomolgi; Herodotus tells us that the Scythians de- prived their slaves of sight in order to keep secret the process of making a drink from mares' milk. . . . Marco Polo, the great Venetian traveller, writing a few years later, speaks of koumiss as a common drink, wholesome, nutritious, and posses- sing important medical properties. . . . Pallas, who was sent by the Empress Catherine II. to visit the less-known portions of her dominions, gave considerable attention to the question of koumiss. Speaking of the Tartar tribes, he says: 'Their wealth consists in herds of mares, the milk of which cannot be manufactured into cheese or butter, and which, owing to the large quantity of sugar it contains, ferments spontaneously. This they undoubtedly discovered by attempting to preserve the milk for a day or two in skin bags. From this step, it is a