226 Appendix. in the twenty-four hours can be taken without inducing the worst symptoms of prostration. Nearly all the good eflEects of alcohol, when its use is indicated, are obtained by four, six, or eight ounces of brandy in twenty-four hours. Taken in excess, even when in smaller quantities, it would do the patient no good; it dries the tongue, muddles the mind. . . . When there is a question of a larger or a smaller dose, I, as a rule, give the smaller. The reverse of the rule I laid down for myself in the treatment of typhus fever." Fresh Air and Diet for Colds and Catarrhs. Extracts from " The Remedies of Nature," by Dr. Felix L. Oswald: Dr. Oswald says: " That colds or catarrhal affections are so very common—more frequent than all other diseases taken to- gether—is mainly due to the fact that the cause of no other disorder of the human organism is so generally misunder- stood . . . the cause is taken for a cure, and the most effective cure for the cause of the disease. If we inquire after that cause, ninety-nine patients out of a hundred . . . would answer, ' Cold weather,' ' Raw March winds,' ... in other words, out- door air of a low temperature, If we inquire after the best cure, the answer would be, ' Warmth and protection against cold draughts,' i. e., warm, stagnant, in-door air. Now, I main- tain that it can be proved . . . that warm, vitiated in-door air is the cause, and cold out-door air the best cure for catarrhs.. . . In all the civilized countries of the colder latitudes catarrhs are frequent in winter and early spring, and less frequent in midwinter, hence the inference. . . . No kind of warm weather will mitigate a catarrh while the patient persists in doing what thousands never cease to do the year round—namely, to ex- pose their lungs night after night to the vitiated, sickening at- mosphere of an unventilated bedroom. Colds are, indeed, less frequent in midwinter than at the beginning of spring. Frost is such a powerful disinfectant that in very cold nights the