Appendix. 216 " The most perfect food for children—the only one, indeed, which can be trusted to supply in itself all the necessary ele- ments of nutrition in the most digestible form—is milk. In it are contained nitrogenous matter in the curd, fat in the cream, besides sugar, and the salts which are so essential to perfect nutrition. The milk of different animals varies to a certain ex- tent in the proportion of the several constituents, some con- taining more curd, others more cream and sugar; but the milk of the cow, which is always readily obtainable, is the one to which recourse is usually had, and, when properly made, this is perfectly efficient for the purpose required. Cow's milk con- tains a larger proportion of curd and cream, but less sugar, than is found in human milk, and these differences can be immedi- ately remedied by dilution with water and the addition of cane or milk sugar in sufficient quantity to supply the necessary sweetness. But there is another and more important difference between the two fluids which must not be lost sight of. If we take two children, the one fed on cow's milk and water, the other nursed at his mother's breast, and produce vomiting after a meal by friction over the abdomen, we notice a remarkable diffei 'ence in the matters ejected. In the first case we see the curd of the milk coagulated into a firm, dense lump; while in the second the curd appears in the form of minute flocculent, loosely connected granules. The demand made upon the di- gestive powers in these two cases is very different, and the ex- periment explains the difficulty often experienced by infants in digesting cow's milk, however diluted it may be; for the addi- tion of water alone will not hinder the firm clotting of the curd. In order to make such milk satisfactory as a food for new-born infants further preparation is required ; and there are two ways in which the difliculty may be overcome. " Although any thickening matter will have the mechanical effect desired of separating the particles of curd, yet it is not immaterial what substance is chosen. The question of the fari- naceous feeding of infants is a very important one, for it is to an excess of this diet that so many of their derangements may often be attributed. Owing to a mistaken notion that such