Appendix. 214: and at the same time a very large quantity of amylaceous* food is rapidly converted into dextrine and sugar by the pan- creatic action of the emulsion, and thus a most important as- sistance in the economy of fat is given by the increased supply of carbon from the carbohydrates f at the same time that fat is being thrown into the blood by the emulsion. "From the date of its first introduction in 1863 up to 1872, at the lloyal Chest Hospital alone, I had prescribed the emul- sion in over six thousand cases. . . . The general results of niy thus extended experience have been confirmatory of my opinion. ... I am informed on good authority that as much as sixty thousand pounds of the emulsion (made m London) have been consumed in a single year. While there are cer- tainly a few persons who cannot possibly take or assimilate the emulsion, although able to take cod-liver oil, they are but very few indeed, now that the emulsion has been made so perfect a preparation ; whereas the number of persons who can take and assimilate the emulsion but not cod-liver oil, is very large. In either case, it is necessary not to be too easily persuaded by our patients from prescribing the remedy. I frequently find that patients who assert that they cannot possibly, and never could, keep down the oil, will manage to do so when informed that it is the only thing that will stay the progress of the disease." Food for Infants. Remarks of Dr. Eustace Smith, Physician to the King of the Belgians, in The Sanitary Record : "The mortality among children under the age of twelve months is enormous, and of these deaths a large proportion might be prevented by a wider diffusion of knowledge of one of the most simple of subjects. . . . The great principle at the bottom of all successful feeding, viz., that an infant is nourished in proportion to his power of digesting the food with which he is supplied, and not in proportion to the quantity of nutritive material which__be_may_be induced to sw^llmvjsjo ■ * Pertaining to starch. t Sugar and starch.