Ajppendix. 207 with the digestion, vanish clearness of thought, acuteness of the senses, and the elasticity of the muscles.'" Tendency of Common Wheat Flour to Produce Bright''s Disease, Diabetes, etc. It is claimed by the health-food manufacturers that " the starch portion of wheat may be compared to the fat of meat, and the gluten portion to the lean meat. This compar- ison is not wanting in scientific accuracy, inasmuch as starch is carbon and fat is carbon, while animal albumen and gluten, or vegetable albumen, are nearly identical nitrogenous substan- ces. If, then, we were to attempt to exist upon the fat, or car- bon, to the exclusion of the lean, or nitrogen, of meat, we should presently discern, by our waning bodily and mental vigor, that we were very imperfectly nourished. The same lack of vital force comes from an excessive use of the veseta- ble carbons. The disuse of the fat of grain—the starch—de- mands more earnest consideration from the physiologist, be- cause the refined taste instinctively shrinks from the copious use of animal fats, while education, custom, habit, all encourage the increasing and unlimited use of the starch form of carbon. It is not claimed that our ordinary bread-flour is as pure a car- bon, as free from nitrogen, as the clear fat of meat. The ordi- nary milling processes cannot exclude ail the nitrogenous ele- ments from the white, flour ; that they do withhold the greater part, as well as all but the merest trace of the organized min- eral constituents, is a simple chemical fact. We know that the gluten contains phosphorus ... we know that the starch con- tains no phosphorus. We know that the starch-interior of the wheat-berry is nearly barren of minerals, containing consider- ably less than one half of one per cent., while the gluten is found to contain over eleven per cent. The mineral matter is nearly half phosphoric acid, nearly one third potassa, more than one tenth magnesia, with smaller proportions of soda, lime, iron, chloride of sodium, sulphuric acid, and silica. These ele- ments are all demanded in the blood-niaking processes, , , . In