Appendix. 222 work, each supply of milk, instead of being coagulated into fine and soft coagula, which are readily acted upon by the se- creted pepsin, coraes into contact with the semi-digested acid coagula of the preceding meal, and, in consequence, is coagu- lated more rapidly than it should be normally, the coagula be- ing larger and harder. Such masses, if not ejected, pass into the intestinal canal but little or not at all changed by the di- gestive process, will impact together on contact, and from their size and dryness are with difficulty passed along the bowels, thus giving rise to constipation, colic, etc." Professor Huxley says : " But, whatever the circumstances, if the quantity of food taken exceeds the demands of the system, evil consequences are sure to follow. The immediate results of overeating are lethargy, heaviness, and tendency to sleep. Overtaxing the digestive organs soon deranges their functions, and is a common and eflScient cause of dyspepsia. If the food is not absorbed from the digestive apparatus into the system, it rapidly undergoes chemical decomposition in the alimentary canal, and often putrefies. Large quantities of gas are thus generated, which give rise to flatulence and colicky pains. Dys- pepsia, constipation, and intestinal irritation causing diarrhoea are produced. If digestion be strong, and its products are ab- sorbed, an excess of nutriment is thrown into the blood, and the circulation is overloaded. If food is not expended in force, the natural alternative is its accumulation in the system, pro- ducing plethora, and abnormal increase of tissue. This is ac- companied by congestion of important organs, mal-assimila- tion of nutritive material, and increased proneness to derange- ment and diseased action." Dr. Dawson says: "The ejection of milk after nursing, which is ignorantly considered by many to be the sign of a healthy child, denotes overfeeding, and is the effect of reflex action. . . . As my experience has taught me, most infants who thus throw up after eating suffer sooner or later from enteralgia and con- stipation, and other symptoms of indigestion, which later are only relieved when the greed of the child is restricted." Dr. Page says: "One cause of excessive feeding exists in the