201 Appendix. an3'tljing.' The ' fit-foi-notliing' state comes on at five p. m., when the drug is taken at the orthodox time, or even in the early morning, in the case of those who are accustomed to have a cup of tea brought to their bedside before rising. With blindness still more profound, some will plead for tea by tell- ing that by its aid one can sit up all night long at brain-work without feeling sleepy, provided ample supplies of the infusion are taken from time to time. " It is unquestionably true that such may be done; that the tea-drinker is languid and weary at tea-time, whatever be the hour, and that the refreshment produced by 'the cup that cheers' and is said not to inebriate, is almost instantaneous, " What is the true significance of these facts? " The refreshment is certainly not due to nutrition, not to the rebuilding of any worn-out or exhausted organic tissue. The total quantity of material conveyed from the tea-leaves into the water is ridiculously too small for the performance of any such nutritive function ; and, besides this, the action is far too rapid, there is not sufBcient time for the conversion of even that minute quantity into organized working tissue. The ac- tion cannot be that of a food, but is purely and simply that of a stimulating or irritant drug, acting directly and abnormally on the nervous system. " The five-o'clock lassitude and craving are neither more nor less than the reaction induced by the habitual abnormal stimula- tion ; or otherwise, and quite fairly, stated, it is the outward symptom of a diseased condition of brain produced by the ac- tion of a drug; it may be but a mild form of disease, but it is truly a disease nevertheless. " The active principle which produces this result is the crys- talline alkaloid, the theine, a compound belonging to the same class as strychnine and a number of similar vegetable poisons. These, when diluted, act medicinally, that is, produce disturb- ance of normal functions as the tea does, and, like theine^ most of them act specially on the nervous system; when concen- trated they are dreadful poisons, very small doses producing death. 9*