Appendix. 200 drunk too hot, it is certainly less unwholesome ; but a simple in- fusion of this drug, druiik boiling hot, as the poor usually take it, is certainly a poison, which, though it is sometimes slow in its operation, never fails to produce fatal effects, even in the strongest constitutions, where the free use of it is continued for a considerable length of time." " This may appear to many a very strong condemnation of their favorite beverage; nevertheless, I am satisfied that it is perfectly sound. This is not an opinion hastily adopted, but a conclusion based upon many observations, extending over a long period of years, and confirmed by experiments made upon myself. " The Pall Mall Gazette of August Yth says: ' There is balm for tea-drinkers in one of Mr. Mattieu AVilliams's "Science Notes" in the Gentleman''s Magazine.'' This is true to a cer- tain extent. I referred to the Chinese as habitual drinkers of boiled water, and suggest that this may explain their com- parative immunity from cholera, where all the other conditions for a raging epidemic are fulfilled. It is the boiling of the water, not the infusion of tea-leaves therein, to which I attrib- ute the destruction of the germs of infection. " In the note which follows, I proposed an infusion of fried or toasted bread crumbs, oatmeal, maize, wheat, barley, malt, etc., as a substitute for the tea, the deep color of the infusion (poured off from the grounds in this case) serving to certify the boiling of the water. Eumford's burned soup, taken habitually at breakfast or other meals, would answer the same purpose, with the futher advantage to poor people of being, to a certain ex- tent, a nutritious soup as well as a beverage. All that is nutri- tious in porter is in this, minus the alcoholic drug and its vile companion, the fusel-oil. " The experience of every confirmed tea-drinker, when sound- ly interpreted, supplies condemnation of the beverage; the plea commonly and blindly urged on its behalf being, when understood, an eloquent expression of such condemnation. 'It is so refreshing;' 'I am fit for nothing when tea-time comes round until I have had my tea, and then I am fit for