Appendix. 205 victim, and a subsequent depression proportionate to the primary exaltation, but, as I believe, always exceeding it either in dura- tion or intensity, or both, thus giving as a net or mean result a loss of vitality." BemarJcs on the Influence of Alcoholic Liquors^ by Professor Edward L, Youmans, in " Household Science,'''' and others. " Stimulating Effect of Alcoholic Beverages.—They produce general stimulation; the heart's action is increased, the circulation quickened, the secretions augmented, the system glows with unusual warmth, and there is a general heightening of the functions. Organs usually below par from debility are brought up to the normal tone, while those which are strong and healthy are raised above it. Thus the stomach, if feeble, for example, from deficient gastric secretion, may be aided to pour out a more copious solvent, which promotes digestion ; or, if it be in full health, it may thus be made to digest more than the body requires. The life of the system is exalted above its standard; which takes place, not by conferiing additional vitality, but by plying the nervous system with a fier}' irritant, which provokes the vital functions to a higher rate of action. This is the secret of the fatal fascination of alcohol, and the source of its evil. The excitement it produces is transient, and is followed by a corresponding depression and dragging of all the bodily movements. It enables us to live at an accelerated speed to-day, but it is ouly plundering to-morrow. By its means we crowd into a short period of intense exhilaration the feelings, emotions, thoughts, and experiences which the Author of our nature designed should be distributed more equally through the passing time. We cannot doubt that God has graduated the flow of these life-currents in accordance with tlie profoundest harmonies of being and the highest results of beneficence. By habitually resorting to this potent stimulant man violates the providential order of his constitution, loses the voluntary regulation and control of his conduct, inaugu- rates the reign of appetite and passion, and reaps the penal