Appendix. as acting in cold weather as a diuretic, and iu warm weather as a diaphoretic. From these physiological standpoints wo can prescribe it rationally in a variety of ailments. It is valu- able in pulmonary catarrh, in pulmonary tuberculosis, in chronic diarrhoea, in diabetes, iu Bright's disease, in diphtheria, in the paralysis the sequel of diphtheria, in summer complaint, in the chronic intestinal and gastric catarrhs of children or adults, and especially in dyspepsia and flatulence. It will be found peculiarly beneficial in cases of incurable disease, such as can- cer. I have prescribed it in pernicious anaemia, puerperal anajmia, in typhoid fever, in puerperal fever; in fact, in almost any affection attended with emaciation. At first it may be given in small quantities, and gradually the ration may be increased until it constitutes the sole food of the patient. As it is in reality a wine-milk, or rather a champagne-milk, it acts some- thing like an alcoholic stimulant, and most patients feel revived at once after taking it. It is especially indicated for the in- firmities of old age, in cases of palsy, paralysis, impending or real mental affections, etc. From Dr. Roberts's Book, ''''The Digestive Ferments.'''' " My own efforts to produce a palatable peptonized food have been chiefly directed to the pancreatic method. The pancreas excels the stomach as a digestive organ, in that it has the power to digest the two great alimentary principles, starch and proteids; and an extract of the gland is possessed of sim- ilar properties. . . . My attention was first turned to the artificial digestion of milk. . . . Milk contains all the elements of a perfect food, adjusted iu their due proportions for the nutrition of the body. Two out of three of its organic con- stituents—namely, tlie sugar and the fat—exist already iu the most favorable condition for absorption, and require little, if any, assistance from the digestive ferments. It is therefore obvious that if we could change the caseine of milk into peptone without materially altering the flavor and appearance of the milk, such a result would go far towards solving the