211 Appendix. returned to the city in the autumn, and the ensuing spring she again commenced the koumiss treatment, and I have lately re- ceived here at Wlirzburg a letter from her husband, in which he informs me that his wife is completely cured, and coughs no longer.'" Dr. Brush further adds that a recent article on koumiss has been written by Dr. Campbell, of Mount Vernon, N. Y., in the American Journal of Obstetrics, Oct., 1880. His observations are limited to the study of koumiss in cholera infantum. He reasons as follows: " In a severe case of choleraic diarrhoea we derive but little aid from medication, the primary cause of the disorder being the food put into the child's stomach. These cases occur almost exclusively among fed children. Our aim is chiefly directed to finding something on which the infant can be nourished and which will not increase the trouble al- ready existing. In koumiss we have a food which children with high temperature not only take kindly, but crave, its slightly acid taste being grateful to their parched tongues. It is an absolutely non-putrefactive food, is free from sugar, and is rarely ejected even by the most irritable stomach. ... I can say of it that it has never failed me in any case of cholera in- fantum, except where well-marked brain symptoms already ex- isted, before it was administered, to such a degree as to pre- clude the possibility of a recovery. Even in these cases it is an advantage, for we are giving a food which will not be vom- ited, and which will satisfy thirst." As a food for diabetics the author would refer to page 10. Remarks hy Dr. T. Griswold Comstock on the Use of Koumiss: "Regarding koumiss, from a large experience in its use dur- ing the past nine years, I can recommend it with the greatest confidence. It fills a desideratum which the medical practi- tioner has long desired. One fact bearing upon its nutritious value should be borne in mind: one pint of it contains more than two ounces of solid food, so that it is especially indicated in constitutional diseases or systemic aflEections. According to the most recent authorities it is regarded by practitioners