Ajypendix. 223 desire of parents to have a/a« baby The excessive fat so generally regarded as a sign of a healthy babe, is as truly a state of actual disease as when it occurs at adult age. Not only are the muscles enveloped with fat, they are mixed with it through- out, and so are the vital organs-the kidneys, liver, heart, etc. Dissection in these cases often discloses the fact that these organs are enlarged and degenerated with fat; the liver, for ex- ample, is often double the normal size. The disease finally culminates in one of two things—a considerable period of non- growth, or a violent sickness, which strips them of fat, if not of life." , , Dr.Page further says: "It is not the large quantity swal- lowed, but the right quantity, properly digested and perfectly assimilated, that alone can insure the best results with either children or adults." Diet for Typhoid Fever. Extract from an address on the "Treatment of Typhoid Fever," delivered before the Midland Medical Society, 1879, by Sir William Jenner: " From the first they should be restricted to a liquid diet with farinaceous food and bread in fine form, if the appetite should require it. It is better to vary the broths, and to add to them some strong essence of vegetables. Sometimes a little strained fruit juice is taken with advantage, but skins and seeds of fruits and particles of the pulp are frequent sources of irrita- tion to the bowels. Grapes are always dangerous, from the diflB' culty of preventing seeds slipping down the throat. The value of milk as an article of diet is generally admitted, but it requires to be given with caution. The indiscriminate employment of milk in almost unlimited quantities as diet in fever has led to serious troubles. Milk contains a large amount of solid animal food. The caseine of the milk has to pass into a solid form be- fore digestion can take place. Curds form in the stomach. Patients suffering from typhoid fever should be allowed an un- limited supply of pure water. When pure water is freely ab-