209 Appendix. sliort one to discover that tlie longer it was liept tlie moro pleasant it became.' Mrs. Guthrie, who visited the Crimea in 1795, writes: 'On stopping at a village the hospitable Tartars brought us a wooden dish of their favorite koumiss. The kou- miss has a sourish-sweet taste, by no means unpleasant to my palate.' Pallas tells us that he met a horde of Tartars who possessed the secret of turning cows' milk into vinous fermenta- tion, or, in other words, into koumiss. Atkinson, in his ' Ori- ental and Western Siberia,' writes: 'On entering a Kirghis yourt in summer, a Chinese bowl holding three pints of kou- miss is presented to each guest. It is considered impolite to return the vessel before emptying it, and a good Kirghis is never guilty of this impropriety. They begin to make koumiss in April. The mares are milked into large leathern pails, which are immediately taken into the yourt, and the milk poured into the koumiss bag. The first foui'teen days after they begin making tliis beverage very little of it is drank, but, with fermentation and agitation, it is considered by this time in perfection, when it is drank in great quantities by the wealthy Kirghis.' "In an oflScial report to the Russian government in 1840, Dr. Dahl, after describing the method of manufacturing koumiss, continues: ' Peculiar as is the taste of koumiss, one soon becomes accustomed to it, especially if one tastes it for the first time when thirsty, or after violent exercise. It is then the most pleasant and refreshing of all drinks. ... It is very refreshing and hunger-stilling, without being surfeiting. It only allays hunger without destroying the appetite. One can, without any fear, drink as much as he will—an inconceivable amount—and yet always feel light and well. If one were to drink half the quantity of water, beer, or anything else, especially during the burning heat when one is forced to be on horseback, one would feel over full and heavy. But every cup of koumiss gives new courage and strength. An intoxication such as is produced by wine never takes place after drinking koumiss, in whatever quantities you may ; the result is a scarcely noticeable exhilara- tion, and this only when it is taken in very considerable quanti-