Appendix. 206 consequences in multiform sufiering and sorrow—for Nature always vindicates herself at last." Prof. Youmans also says, in answer to tLe question, Is the use of alcohol physiologically economical? "The apologists for the general and moderate use of alcoholic beverages cannot agree among themselves upon any philosophy to suit the case. Dr. Moleshott says, 'Alcohol may be considered a savings-box of the tissues. He who eats little, and drinks a moderate quan- tit)' of spirits, retains as much in the blood and tissues as a per- son who eats proportionally more without drinking any beer, wine, or spirits. Clearly, then, it is hard to rob the laborer, who, in the sweat of his brow, eats but a slender meal, of a means by which his deficient food is made to last him a longer time.' Upon which Dr. Chambers justly remarks, ' This is go- ing rather too far. AVhen alcohol limits the consumption of tissue, and so the requirements of the system, while at the same time a man goes on working, it is right to inquire, whence comes his new strength? It is supplied by something which is not decomposition of tissue; by what, then ? Dr. Liebig points out the consequences of that peculiar economy by which the laboring man saves his tissue and the food necessary to re- pair it by the use of liquors: ' Spirits, by their action on the nerves, enable the laborer to make up for deficient power (from insufficient food) at the expense of his body ; to consume to-day that quantity which ought naturally to have been employed a day later. He draws, so to speak, a bill on his health which must be always renewed, because, for want of means, he can^ not take it up; he consumes his capital instead of his interest, and the result is the inevitable bankruptcy of his body.' " Dr. Moleshott further says, ' When, by habit, the stimulant has become a necessity, an enervating relaxation infallibly foU lows, as is sometimes mournfully illustrated by less prudent lit- erary men. The stimulant ceases to excite; the debilitated or- gans have already been indebted to it for all the activity it can give. In this case the victim continues to seek his refuge until dangerous diseases of the stomach cripple the digestive or- gans, the formation of blood and nutrition are disturbed; aqd,