202 Appendix. " The non-tea-drinker does not suffer any of these five-o'clock symptoms, and, if otherwise in sound health, remains in steady working condition until his day's work is ended and the time for rest and sleep arrives. Bat the habitual victim of any kind of drug or disturber of normal functions acquires a diseased condition, displayed by the loss of vitality or other deviation from normal condition, which is temporarily relieved by the usual dose of the drug, but only in such wise as to generate a renewed craving. I include in this general statement all the vice-drugs (to coin a general name), such as alcohol, opium, tobacco (whether smoked, chewed, or snuffed), arsenic, hashish, betel-nut, coca-leaf, thorn-apple, Siberian fungus, mate, etc., all of which are excessively ' refreshing' to their victims, and of which the use may be, and has been, defended by the same argu- ments as those used by the advocates of habitual tea-drink- ing. " Speaking generally, the reaction or residual effect of these on the system is nearly the opposite of that of their immediate effect, and thus larger and larger doses are demanded to bring the system to its normal condition. The non-tea-drinker, or moderate drinker, is kept awake by a cup of tea or coffee taken late at night, while the hard drinker of these beverages scarce- ly feels any effect, especially if accustomed to take it at that time. "The practice of taking tea or coffee by students, in order to work at night, is downright madness, especially when preparing for an examination. More than half of the cases of break- down, loss of memory, fainting, etc., which occur during severe examinations, and far more frequently than is commonly known, are due to this. " I frequently hear of promising students who have thus failed; and, on inquiry, have learned—in almost every instance —that the victim has previously dragged himself with tea or coffee. Sleep is the rest of the brain ; to rob the hard-worked brain of its necessary rest is cerebral suicide. " My old friend, the late Thomas Wright, was a victim of this terrible folly. He undertook the translation of the ' Life of