203 Appendix. Julius Ca3sar,' by Napoleon III, and to do it in a cruelly short time. He fulfilled his contract by sitting up several nights successively by the aid of strong tea or coffee (I forget which). I saw him shortly afterwards. In a few weeks he had aged alarmingly, and had become quite bald; his brain gave way and never recovered. There was but little difference between his age and mine, and but for this dreadful cerebral strain, rendered possible only by the alkaloid (for otherwise he would have fallen to sleep over his work, and thereby saved his life), he might still be amusing and instructing thousands of readers by fresh volumes of popularized archaeological research. " I need scarcely add that all I have said above applies to cof- fee as to tea, though not so seriously in this country [England]. The active alkaloid is the same in both, but tea contains, weiglit for weight, about three times as much as coffee. In this country we commonly use about fifty per cent, more coffee than tea to each given measure of water, and thus get about half as much alkaloid. On the Continent they use about double our quan- tity (this is the true secret of 'coffee as in France'), and thus produce as potent an infusion as our tea. "The above remarks are exclusively applied to the habitual use of these stimulants. As medicines, used occasionally and judiciously, they are invaluable, provided always that they are not used as ordinary beverages. In Italy, Greece, and some parts of the East, it is customary, when anybody feels ill, with indefinite symptoms, to send to the druggist for a dose of tea. From what I have seen of its action on non-tea-drinkers, it ap- pears to be specially potent in arresting the premonitory symp- toms of fevei", the fever-headache, etc. " It is strange that any physiologist should claim this dimi- nution of the normal waste and renewal of tissue as a merit, seeing that life itself is the product of such a change, and death the result of its cessation. But, in the eagerness that has been displayed to justify existing indulgences, this claim has been extensively made by men who ought to know better than admit such a plea. " I speak, of course, of the habitual use of such drugs, not of