Appendix. 217 foods are peculiarly liglit and digestible—a notion so widely prevalent that the phrase " food for infants " has become almost synonymous with farinaceous matter—young babies are often fed as soon as they are born with large quantities of corn-flour or arrowroot, mixed sometimes with milk, but often with water alone. Now starch, of which all the farinas so largely consist, is digested principally by the saliva, aided by the secretion from the pancreas, which convert the starch into dextrine and grape- sugar previous to absorption. But the amount of saliva formed in the new-born infant is excessively scanty, and it is not until the fourth month that the secretion becomes fully established. Again, according to the experiments of Kovowin, of St. Peters- burg, the pancreatic juice is almost absent in a child of a month old; even in the second month its secretion is very limited, and has little action upon starch. It is only at the end of the third month that its action upon starch becomes sufficiently powerful to furnish material for a quantitative estimation of the sugar formed. Therefore, before the age of three months a farina- ceous diet is not to be recommended—is even to be strongly deprecated, unless the starchy substance be given with great caution and in very small quantities. If administered reck- lessly, as it too often is, the food lies undigested in the bowels, ferments, and sets up a state of acid indigestion which, in so young and feeble a being, may lead to the most disastrous con- sequences. In fact, the deaths of so many children under two or three months old can be often attributed to no other cause than a purely functional abdominal derangement, excited and maintained by too liberal feeding with farinaceous foods. There is, however, one form of food which, although farina- ceous, is yet well digested, even by young infants, if given in moderate quantities. This is barley water. The starch it con- tains is small in amount and is held in a state of very fine division. When barley water is mixed with milk in equal pro- portions it insures a fine separation of the curd, and is at the same time a harmless addition to the diet. Isinglass or gela- tine, in the proportion of a teaspoonful to the bottlcful of milk and water, may also be made use of, and will be found to an- 10