218 Appendix. swer the purpose well. Farinaceous foods in general are, as has been said, injurious to young babies on account of the defi- ciency during the first months of life of the secretions necessary for the conversion of the starch into the dextrine and grape- sugar, a preliminary process which is indispensable to absorp- tion. If, however, we can make such an addition to the food as will insure the necessary chemical change, farinaceous matter ceases to be injurious. It has been found that, by adding to it malt in certain proportions, the same change is excited in the starch artificially as is produced naturally by the salivary and pancreatic secretions during the process of digestion. The em- ployment of malt for this purpose was first suggested by Mialhe, in a paper read before the French Academy in 1845, and the suggestion was put into practice by Liebig, fifteen years later. " ' Liebig's Food for Infants' contains wheat flour, malt, and a little carbonate of potash, and has gained a well-deserved ce- lebrity as a food for babies during the first few months of life. The best form with which I am acquainted is that made by Mr. Mellin, under the name of ' Mellin's Extract for Preparing Lie- big's Food for Infants.' In this preparation, owing to the careful way in which it is manufactured, the whole of the starch is converted into dextrine and grape-sugar, so that the greater part of the work of digestion is performed before the food reaches the stomach of the child. Mixed with equal parts of milk and water this food is as perfect a substitute for mother's milk as can be produced, and is readily digested by the young- est infants. It very rarely, indeed, happens that it is found to disagree. " In all cases, then, where a child is brought up by hand, milk should enter largely into his diet; and during the first few months of life he should be fed upon it almost entirely. If he can digest plain milk and water, there is no reason for making any other addition than that of a little milk, sugar, and creamy but in cases where, as often happens, the heavy curd taxes the gastric powers too severely, the milk may be thickened by an equal proportion of thin barley water, or by adding to