224 Appendix. sorbed it passes away by the kidneys, skin, lungs, etc., and is of much service as a depurating agent. If it be possible even that the poison of the fever was conveyed into the patient by the drinking-water or the milk of the district in which he is ill, then these fluids should be boiled until a different supply is ob- tained. . . . The fever is thus met by rest, quiet, fresh air, mixed liquid food, and bland diluents, and the exclusion of fresh doses of poison; the intestinal lesion by careful exclusion from the diet of all hard and irritating substances, and the re- moval from the bowels of any local irritant. "The chief causes of diarrhosa in excess of that due to the intestinal changes in typhoid fever are, first, errors iu diet; sec- ond, the use of solid food—the presence of undigested food in the bowels, the abuse of milk and animal broths. My own ex- perience has not satisfied me that one animal broth is more prone to produce diarrhoea than another. Excess of fluid, when there is irritability to absorb the quantity drank, passes through the bowels, and so stimulates excessive secretion from the intestinal mucous membrane. " Alcohol in fit doses improves the nerve energy. . . . W^hen blood in ever so small a quantity is observed in the secretions, the patient is to be kept in a recumbent position. He should not be allowed to make any effort whatever. All movement of the bowels should be restrained as far as possible and for as long as possible. . . . It is a point of the greatest moment to keep the bowels empty, and therefore nourishment should be given in the most concentrated and absorbable form; i. e., essence of meat in tablespoonful doses, frequently repeated. Lumps of ice should be sucked, and all essence of meat iced. " In a disease which runs a limited course, like typhoid fever, the greatest possible care should be taken to preserve the powers of the stomach, as the life of the patient may depend on his power to digest nourishment towards the end of his disease. ... To avert death from failure of heart power alcohol is the great remedy. Over defective cardiac action— due altogether to changes in the muscular tissue, when once established, or in the circulation of poisoned blood through its