228 Appendix. seems to reach tlie scat of disease by an air line. As the chest begins to heave under the stimulus of the exercise, respiration becomes freer as it becomes deeper and fuller . . . mucus is dis- charged en masse, as if the system had only waited for that amount of encouragement to rid itself of the incubus. A catarrh can thus be broken up in a single day. For the next half week the diet should be frugal and cooling. Fruit, light bread (?), and a little milk, is the best catarrh diet." "A fast- day is still better. Fasting efEects in a perfectly safe way what the old-school practitioners tried to accomplish by bleeding; it reduces the semi-febrile condition which accompanies every se- vere cold. There is no doubt but that by exercise alone a catarrh can gradually be ' worked off.' ... A combination of the three specifics, exercise, abstinence, and fresh air, will cure the most obstinate cold." This admirable article of Dr. Oswald's, published in the Popular Science Monthly, has undoubtedly done much to shake what he calls " the night-air superstition." Dr. Oswald sleeps with window wide open the year round, and he never has a cold. It would undoubtedly be indiscreet, however, to change a habit too suddenly. The old maxim of "feeding a cold and starving a fever" is also refuted by physicians in general, as well as by Dr. Os- wald. Something more about the Pancreatic Extract for Artificial Digestion. In the receipts I have given for the digestion of certain foods (pages 41 and 42), Dr. Benjamin T. Fairchild (the inventor of the "Pancreatic Extract" as prepared by Fairchild Brothers) tells me that he fears I allow too long a time for the digestive process, which renders the food less palatable. It is more sat- isfactory, he says, to digest the milk food but half an hour. If not taken immediately by the patient, the food is, after the half hour, placed on ice. This arrests digestion, and when the patient takes the food into the stomach, the digestion is there completed. As it is desirable to give the food to the patient