Appendix. 225 vessels—alcohol exerts comparatively little influence; but when the weakness and frequency of cardiac action are due to nerve influence, in part or altogether, then alcohol exerts a singularly beneficial effect on the rapidity and feebleness of the heart s ac- tion. ... I may sum up my experience in regard to the use of alcohol in the treatment of typhoid fever thus: Its influence is exerted primarily in the nervous system, and through it on the' several organs and processes; for example, the heart and the general nutritive processes—changes on which the rise and fall of temperature depends. In judiciously selected cases it lowers temperature, increases the force and diminishes^ the frequency of the heart-beats; it calms and soothes the patient, diminishes the tremor; it quiets delirium, and induces sleep. It should never be given in the early stage of the disease, or with the hope of anticipating and so preventing the occurrence of prostration and debility, but should be prescribed only when the severity of special symptoms, or the general state of prostra- tion, indicates its use. Hence a large number of cases of typhoid fever end favorably without alcohol being prescribed at all. It should not be prescribed when a sudden gush of blood has induced faintness, unless the faintness is so great as to threaten life immediately. Nor should it be given when, after the first few drops, the temperature rises, the heart's ac- tion becomes more frequent, or more feeble, delirium increas- es, sleeplessness supervenes, or drowsiness deepens, so as to threaten to pass into coma. When the urine contains a cer- tain amount of albumen alcohol should not be prescribed un- less absolutely necessary for the relief of some symptom im- mediately threatening life, and then it should be given with the greatest caution, and its effects on temperature and the circula- tion be carefully and frequently noted. The quantity of alco- hol prescribed should be as much only as may be necessary to effect the object for which it is prescribed. In the fourth week, to tide the patient over the concluding days of the dis- ease, it may, as a rule, be given more freely than in the second, or the beginning of the third, week of the disease; but it is in exceptional cases only that more than twelve ounces of brandy 10*