213 Appendix. problem of supplying an artificially digested food for the use of the sick." Peptonized Milk Gruel.—Dr. Roberts further says: " This is the preparation of which I have had the most experience, and ■with which I have obtained the most satisfactory results. It may be regarded as an artificially digested bread-and-milk, and as forming by itself a complete and highly nutritious food for weak digestion. ... I find, however, that some persons fail to peptonize milk gruel so as to make it palatable. This is en- tirely due to allowing the peptonizing process to go on too far. Artificial digestion, like cooking, must be regulated as to its degree. If the liquor pancreaticus is very active, the slight bitterness, vk'hereby it is known that the process has been car- ried far enough, is developed in an hour or less, but if the preparation is not so active, two or three hours may be re- quired to reach the same point. The practical rule for guid- ance is to allow the process to go on until a perceptible bitter- ness is developed, and not longer. The milk gruel should be raised to the boiling-point to put a stop to further changes." Pancreatic Emulsion of Fats.—Dr. Dobell, in his work on " Loss of Weight, Blood-spitting, and Lung Disease," says: " Oil when it agrees and passes into the blood does not com- pletely represent the solid fats of the natural food, and cannot therefore permanently take their place. As a temporary sub- stitute for natural fat it answers admirably, but sooner or later, in some cases very soon indeed, the portal system becomes choked and refuses to absorb more oil; the oil disagrees with the stomach, it rises, spoils the appetite, and thus not only ceases to do good, but does positive harm, by preventing the patient from taking as much food as the stomach might other- wise call for and digest. None of these disadvantages occur with well-made pancreatic emulsions of solid fat. The con- sequence is that an artificial supply of natural fat by the nat- ural route can be kept up for an indefinite time if required, while the appetite is usually improved and the digestion also;