LUMBAR PUNCTURE 247 cytology of the cerebro-spinal fluid are as follows :— 1. Tuberculous Meningitis.—Cells are fairly abundant; in round numbers from 40 to 700 per c.mm. The average in Rous's cases was 213. Both mononuclear and polynuclear forms occur; there is a tendency to lymphocytosis, but the ratio between the two forms is not of importance. 2. Acute Meningitis, Pneumococcal, Menin- gococcal, etc.—Marked polynuclear leucocy- tosis. 3. Other Nervous Diseases, excluding Syphi- litic and Parasyjjhilitic Lesio7is.—In serous meningitis (Quincke) the fluid is sterile, the pressure is slightly raised, and there may be a few lymphocytes. In haemorrhagic menin- gitis, cerebral hsemorrhage, etc., blood may be present. In poliomyelitis, cerebral tumour, meningism, and the majority of other dis- eases, cytological examination is negative. The pressure may be raised. 4. Lymphocytosis occurs in practically all syphilitic affections, in tabes, and in general paralysis. In the last named. Cotton and Ayres describe lymphocytes, plasma cells, and sometimes phagocytes as pathognomonic of the disease. 5. In non-nervous diseases the findings are negative. 6. Generally speaking, lymjyhocytosis points to an organic affection of the meninges, especi- ally tuberculous or syphilitic; it may there- fore occur now and again in cases of cerebral tumour. In any old-standing disease of the nervous system " Kornchen" cells may be found (Cotton and Ayres). 7. In mental diseases, other than syphilitic, the fluid contains no cells. Therapeutic Use of Lumbar Puncture. —Lumbar puncture is often effective in reliev- ing headache due to intra-cranial pressure, e.g. from cerebral tumour. Care must be taken to drain the fluid off slowly, lest a sudden lowering of the pressure produce hsemorrhage into the tumour. Lumbar puncture may also be tried in cases of obstinate tinnitus, in coma from fracture of the base of the skull, in urasmia, and in convulsions. Tetanus has been treated by the injection of antitoxin into the spinal or cranial cavity, and strychnine poison- ing by the intra-spinal injection of eucaine {see also Cerebro-spinal Meningitis, p. 98, and Anesthesia, Spinal, p. 32), REFERENCES.—PuRVES Stewart, Edin. Med. Journ., xix.p. 429,1906.—Rehn, Miinch.med. Wochensch., p. 1636, 1908.—Kadfmann, Neur. Zentrcdb., 16th May 1908.—MOTT, Brit. Med. Journ., ii. p. 1554, 1904.— Bernstein, Mt. Sinai Hosp. Reports, v., 1907.—Cotton and Ayres, Rev. Neurol, and Psych., April 1908.—Rods, Amer. Journ. Med. Sci., April 1907.—Kampe, Zentralb. f. d. Grenzgeheite d. Med. u. Chir., 10th and 22nd Nov. and 8th Dec. 1906 (General Reviewl.—Frankhauser, Corr.-bl. f. Schweiz. Aerzte, p. 15, 1907. Lung's and Thorax, Surgery of the. General Statement .... 247 Technique of Lung Resection . . 247 Surgery of the Thorax . . .249 Pidmonary Embolism . . . .249 Pidmonary Tuberculosis . . . 249 Bib-Resection over Large Cavities . 250 Chondrotomy of First Rib . . 250 Emphysema ..... 250 Artificial Pneumothorax . . . 250 Multiple Rib-Resection . . . 251 Empyema ...... 251 Pneumothorax ..... 252 A GENERAL review of this subject was pub- lished in the Gazette des Hopitaux, 29th Sept. 1906. Willems, the reporter, deals with empyema, costopleural tumours, tumours of the sternum, wounds of the lung and dia- phragm, diaphragmatic hernia, intrapulmonary suppuration, tumour of the lung, and operations on the thoracic portion of the gullet. The use of Sauerbruch's negative pressure cabinet, and Brauer's positive pressure apparatus is also considered. Loison {ibid.) gives three principal routes for gaining access to the cavity of the chest—through the trachea and bronchi; the mediastinum; and the pleura. Both these papers will be found to give useful reviews of the subject up to the date of publication. The principal advances made have been in the direction of the avoidance of pneumothorax, especially by the use of differential pressure apparatus, and in the application of arterial suture to the large vessels. It should also be said, however, that the occurrence of pneumothorax is now less dreaded than formerly {vide infra). A considerable amount of experimental surgery on animals has been used basis for human surgery, especially in connection with the re- section of portions of the lung. A very general note running through all the papers on thoracic surgery, whether the writers believe in the use of differential pressure apparatus, or whether they are disposed to minimise the value of appliances which, like these, are not generally available, is the insistence of the paramount importance of avoiding wound infection in this region of the body. Elsberg {j\led. Record, 23rd May 1908) insists on the importance of placing the patient in the prone position in operations on the chest. He found that in dogs a much larger opening could be made in the chest without causing distress, if the animal was lying on its belly than when it was lying on its back. He operates on patients in this position with decided advantage. Technique of Lung Resection—Experimental Work.—This subject is discussed by Sauerbruch (the inventor of the pneumatic cabinet which bears his name) and Robinson in the Annals of