ANESTHESIA AND ANESTHETICS 35 and vomiting may occur. Rise of temperature on the night following the operation is not at all unusual. Where high anaesthesia has been obtained by tilting the table, there have been cases where temporary paralysis of the dia- phragm occurred, and artificial respiration was required. This is, however, an avoidable com- plication. The mortality from spinal anaesthesia is already as low as that from chloroform ; it will undoubtedly get still lower. When the possi- bilities it opens up to the medical man who is so placed that to obtain assistance is diiiicult, it must be realised how great a boon to modern surgical practice this will ultimately prove to l^e. Ana,pha,se.—A stage in mitosis (follow- ing upon the prophase and the metaphase) during which the daughter chromosomes (pro- duced in the metaphase) diverge, one of each pair going to the one pole and the other to the other pole of the spindle. Anaphylaxis. See also Immunity.— This term, introduced in 1902 by Charles Richet, is derived from dva, back, and (j>vXa.cr(reiv, to be on one's guard against. It has been used to describe that state' of special vulnerability (sensitisation or supersensitisation) which the organism may acquire on account of a second inoculation of certain organic substances which at the time of a first injection are indifferent or little toxic for it (the organism). It is, there- fore, an inverted immunity, and may be regarded as opposed to prophylaxis. A considerable literature and not a few new scientific terms (thalassin, congestin, mytilocongestin, toxogenin (anaphylactin), apotoxin, Theobald Smith phe- nomenon, phenomenon of Arthus, etc.) have come into existence in connection with ana- phylaxis.^ Richet, experimenting with venins got from certain sea anemones, found that one of them (thalassin) acted prophylactically, and the other (congestin) anaphylactically. A second injection of congestin into dogs found them from five to twenty-five times as sensitive as they were to the first injection, an effect which Richet explained as due to the formation of a third substance, a toxogenin, which, combining with the small dose of toxin introduced in the second injection, produced a very active poison (apotoxin). Anaphylaxis was temporary, dis- appearing after forty days, and being replaced by prophylaxis, or acquired active immunity, and Richet regarded anaphylaxis as Nature's method of accelerating the reaction of the organism to the toxins, and securing the rapid production of antitoxins. Richet's views, how- ever, have not been accepted by all. The practical outcome is that in serum treatment a second injection should be made with caution. ' Armand-Delille, P. F., UAnaphylaxie, Paris, 1910. 2 Editorial, Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1910, p. 1254. Anaplasia.—A term introduced by von Hansemann to express a loss of power of full development in a cell {e.g. a tumour cell), due to an alteration in the distribution of the nuclear matter (atypical mitosis). These cells cannot attain their perfect structure and function, but they may possess abnormal powers of vegetative activity, and they have been regarded by some as giving an explanation of malignancy in tumours—reversionary atrophy (Adami, Path- ology, i. pp. 641, 709, 841, 1910). Anarthria. See Aphasia.—The condi- tion in which speech alone is lost, the patient being able to read, hear, and understand. Anastomosis. See Intestines, Surgery of ; Arteries, Suture of ; Nerves, Surgery of. Aneurism, Surg^ical Treatment of.—Matas's Operation.—An operation for the radical cure of aneurism has been introduced by Matas (Journ. of the Amer. Med. Assoc., 1906, Mar. 31, Sept. 29). In its most elaborate form the operation aims at reconstraicting the artery out of its sac walls, but this is not, as many have thought, its main object, and can, indeed, only be attained in a limited number of cases. Fundamentally the Matas operation consists in—(1) The obliteration by suture of the vascular orifices opening into the aneurismal sac, and (2) the obliteration of the sac by suture, which brings its inner surfaces into apposition, or by methods of obliteration which leave the sac undisturbed and tend to secure healing by plastic union. The circulation oeing controlled, the sac is exposed and opened, and the arterial openings into it are sutured. Matas lays stress on the need for closing not only the parent artery, but also the collaterals, if permanent freedom from recurrence is to be ensured. The sac is then obliterated by approximating its Avails with buried sutures. In this, obliterative endo- aneurysmorrhaphy, the continuity of the artery is not restored. Restorative endo-aneurysmm- rhaphy may be performed in saccular aneurisms provided that the main trunk retains its con- tinuity and normal outline, the sac being simply grafted on to the vessel. The sac is opened freely and the arterial opening exposed. This opening is then closed by a continuous suture passing through all the coats of the vessel. The sac is then obliterated by bringing its endo- thelial surfaces together with buried sutures. The communication between the artery and the sac is thus arrested, but the artery remains patent, and the blood supply to peripheral parts is not checked. Arterioplasty, or reconstructive endo-aneurysmorrhaphy, can only be done in fusi- form aneurisms in which the arterial walls are healthy and the two openings of the parent artery are on the same level. It is especially applicable in traumatic aneurisms, which most