EUGENICS 152 Act for " the stei'ilisation by the knife of con- firmed criminals, idiots, imbeciles, and rapists, and has fixed the maximum fee of the medical experts consulted" {Lanc>-t, ii. for 1907, p. 40), There is, therefore, a world-wide tendency to focus attention upon antenatal matters, and to take thought how what is wrong before birth may be put light, and how what is right may be encouraged. The British Medical Journal (vol. ii. for 1901, p. 1363) may here be quoted :— " The way in which, at certain epochs, different minds, starting from very different points, work towards the same conclusion is a remarkable phenomenon. It has given rise to many charges of plagiarism and some bitter controversies as to priority. . . . An instance of the phenomenon is afforded by the interest just now shown in the possibilities of puericulture. French philo- sophers, whethei' sociologists or physicians, have been driven to a study of the subject by the hard facts of vital statistics, which show that the population of France has become practically stationary owing to a great decline in the birth-rate. Dr. Ballantyne and other leaders of the Edinburgh school of obstetricians have been brought to the subject by a consideration of the needs of pregnant women for better treatment during the time they are with child. Sanitarians have been led to consider similar questions from an observation of the lament- able results on the offspring of women's labour during the latter months of pregnancy. Now we have Mr. Francis Galton bringing his analytical methods to bear on the question in the ingenious and suggestive Huxley Memorial Lecture which he delivered before the Anthro- pological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland. . . . The aim of the lecture was to give a scientific basis to the problem of race improve- ment under existing conditions of civilisation and sentiment." Eugenics, therefore, must be regarded as one of the lines of approach to the great problem of antenatal health and well- being ; it emphasises the hereditary aspect of the subject, and would utilise the existence of favourable traits in individuals, and their in- tensification by regulated marriages for the progress of race-culture. Antenatal pathology and hygiene has its attention directed more immediately to the discovery of the causes of antenatal disease, malformation, and deformity, and to the possible prevention of such by treat- ment given to the mother during her pregnancy, or to both parents at and before the occurrence of conception. Puei'iculture studies not only the antenatal side of the question, but also proceeds upon the assumption that much may be done to better the race by improving the sanitary conditions into which babies are born, and by saving the new-born child from erroneous feeding in an unhygienic environment. It is quite obvious that all these different lines of approach have before them the common goal of race betterment and the prevention of race- suicide; but, at present, there is a strange lack of united effort, which is not a good augury of early success. Scope and Ob.jects.—As has been indicated, eugenics deals with the hereditary side of the problem of race-culture; it studies the laws of heredity, so far as they are known, and endeav- ours to draw deductions from them which shall be helpful in suggesting the lines along which regulation of marriage should proceed and the degree to which the segregation or sterilisation of the unfit should be insisted upon. In this sense it is preventive medicine applied to the organism in the germinal stage of antenatal life ; the best germ cells are to be brought together, and those which carry in them a hereditary blight are to be prevented coming to fruition. It includes, therefore, the subject of germinal therapeutics, as looked at from the standpoint of heredity. But, in a larger sense, it deals with influences which are not strictly hereditary, with alcoholism and syphilis, for instance, which are germinal or foetal diseases or infections, and with tuberculosis, which " lies very near the line between heritable and non- heritable diseases." The sciences of eugenics and antenatal pathology here overlap to a very marked degree ; and both have as their aim the attainment of antenatal health by the discovery of the causes of disease which come into action during the antenatal life of the individual, and by finding out means of preventing them so acting. Such is the "eugenic field" in its widest expanse (see Crackanthorpe, Eugenics Rev., i. pp. 11-25, 1909); but in its more limited range it includes simply positive eugenics, or the encouragement of parenthood on the part of the worthy, and negative eugenics, or its discouragement on the part of the un- worthy, selection and rejection (Saleeby, Eugenics Rev., i. p. 8, 1909). It is a wide field, whether we consider it in its limited or in its more extended aspect. Further, the subject of eugenics can hardly make its influence felt without at once coming into touch, and, it may easily be, into conflict with the law, social customs and institutions, and religion. It is, of course, eminently desirable that emigrants going to a new colony should be health}' members of a good stock, so that their children may worthily carry on the work their parents are about to commence ; it is very important that persons predisposed to tuberculosis, or the victims of the craving for alcohol or drugs, or the subjects of epilepsy, deafmutism, con- genital blindness, or haemophilia should not marry or intermarry; but the law, social customs, and the rules of the Church must be altered before a health certificate can be demanded from all intending emigrants or candidates for matrimony, on pain of refusal of permission to embark on the Atlantic Ocean