MENSTRUATION 260 views regarding the importance of the corpus luteum and of lutein have been fully upheld by recent research, nevertheless the evidence in support of the dominant influence of the ovary is still very strong. It has been strengthened, for instance, by the results of transplantation experiments in animals and in the human subject: ovaries have been removed from one situation to another in the same animal (homo- plastic transplantation), and they have been taken from one animal to another of the saiiie species (heteroplastic transplantation); and in a few cases, both homotransplantation and heterotransplantation have heen performed on the human subject. In all these varieties of grafting it has been claimed that conception has followed ; even in heterotransplantation in the human female, Morris {Med. Bee, Ixix. p. 697, 1906) has reported a pregnancy and the birth of a living child. But, apart from this latter somewhat extraordinary result (in which the success can hardly be regarded as other than embaiTassing), the giafting of ovaries has apparently counteracted the symptoms of the menopause and pres ented the atrophy of the genitals which usually follows castration. There is a considerable literature on this subject of ovarian grafting (summaries of which, for English readers, are provided hy the articles of Scott Carmiehael, Journ. Ohstet. and Gyncec. Brit. Emp., xi. p. 215, 1907, and of Franklin H. Martin, Trans. Amer. Gynec. Soc, xxxiii. p. 489, 1908), and the general result of a perusal of what has been written is to support the view that the ovary will live and functionate in other localities than the normal one, and will prevent the troublesome sequelpe which usually occur at a premature menopause ; but whether it does so on accoiuit of persistence of ovulation or by reason of con- tinued production of its internal secretion (apart from ovulation) is not clear. The introduction into practice of the opera- tion of hysterectomy and its performance in a large group of cases has raised the cognate question of the influence of the uterus upon the general metabolism of the body and upon the ovaries. Now the experiments of C. J. Bond and Sir Victor Horsley upon the two-horned uterus of rabbits (Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1906, p. 121) seem to show that removal of the whole organ does not prevent the continuance of the functions of the ovary (ovulation going on as usual), and the taking away of one horn does not interfere with ovulation in the OAary of the same side. In the labbit it was also found that there was a saline secretion taking- place into the interior of the uterus, and it was thought that this antagonised in some way the ovarian internal secretion, that it i)revented lutein formation in the ovary in pregnancy, and had a prejudicial eft'ect on the general nutrition of the individual. Bond's experi- ments seemed, further, to prove that in the rabbit compensatory hypertrophy of one ovary takes place after removal of the other, and does so independently of the presence of the uterus so long as coition be continued. It cannot, however, be said that Bond's experiments or those of Carmiehael and Marshall (I'roc. Roy. Soc, B. Ixxix. p. 387, 1907) have done much to weaken the dominant role of the ovaries in menstruation ; but the work done by Blair Bell and Pantland Hick {Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1909, pp. 517, 592, 655, and 716), Avhile it does not show that removal of the uterus (in rabbits) produces marked changes in the j ovaries, is none the less damaging to the I theory of the importance of the ovaries. Blair Bell and Pantland Hick have been led bj^ their investigations to the belief that the calciuni content of the blood plaj's a leading- part in the occurrence of mensti-uation, that the periodicity of the latter is due to the periodicity of the calcium metabolism, that rupture of Graafian follicles is in no way re- sponsible for menstruation, and that, indeed, i the ovary is no more predominant in respect to the menstrual function than the other ductless glands {e.g. the thyroid gland and pituitary body). These authors go so far a.«- to say "that menstruation per se is not a necessary adjuvant, nor concomitant to fertility and reproduction " ; they, therefore, arrive at results widely diff"erent from those of Fraenkel and his followers. The results, then, of the work on menstruation carried out during the first eight or nine years of the twentieth century cannot be said to contain the solution of the vexed question of the ovarian influence ; but they indicate the lines of advance by which that matter may in time be settled. Mean- while it would seem to be a matter of some practical importance for the patient who has her uterus removed to lie spared one or both of her ovaries, so long at least as she is not beyond the menopause. What have been called the forensic aspects of menstruation have been exercising the minds of some recent writers, and the matter is one which may be expected to assume greater im- portance if the franchise be given to women, and if women be elected to posts of responsi- bilitj' involving nervous strain. It is well known that menstruation bears a relationship (of cause or only of effect is not yet certain) to in.sanity, and the frequency of the association of men- strual irregularities (precocious menarche, re- tarded puberty, amenori'hava, etc.) with mental disorders has often been pointed out (recently, for instance, by Salerni, Policlin., xiii., sez. med., p. 221, 'l906, and by Sheila M. Ross, Journ. Merit. Sci., Iv. p. 270. April 1909); it is also admitted that hysteria, epilejjsy, and other nervous maladies are aggravated during the menstrual peiiod : but it is not so generally