12 ABORTION formities, interference with nutrition (maternal ansemia, placental thrombosis, or umbilical torsion or knotting), infectious diseases of the fcetus, or, simply, hyperpyi'exia. Taussig's classification is pathogenetic rather than etio- logical ; it has the advantage of leading the obstetrician to form a more scientific concep- tion of the mechanism at work in the produc- tion of each case of miscarriage; but it has the disadvantage of overlapping, for it is quite conceivable that one and the same case might require to be placed in two or even three of the subdivisions which are enumerated. Still there can be no doubt that some classification such as this will be required if our knowledge of the intimate causation of abortion is to be advanced. Etiology.—Any advance which has taken place in our knowledge of the causation of abortion during the past five or six years has been rather in the direction of a more exact acquaintance with the means which were being illicitly employed to provoke the premature emptying of uterus than in that of the investigation of the pathological causes of abor- tion or their mode of action. In a word, our increased knowledge refers to criminal rather than to natural or unprovoked abortion. At the same time a few facts regai'ding ordinary abortions have been noted or empha- sised. J. W. Ballantyne {Iniernat. Clinics, lis. ii. p. 231, 1901) insists upon the recogni- tion of the clinical fact that there exists a great difference between what he terms the " uterine irritability " of one patient and that of another, the most directly abortifacient measures failing to induce a miscarriage in one woman, the slightest cause (a slip of the foot on a polished floor, etc.) at once sufficing to do so in another woman. Munro Kerr {Operative Midwifery, p. 518, 1908) associates this " irritability " with the habit of aborting, admitting, however, that the latter is more usually the result of special diseased conditions, which, if carefully searched for, will be dis- covered. " Still, in spite of the most careful examination, there are cases where a peculiar irritability of the uterus seems to be the only cause." It may be noted, in passing, that J. W. Taylor {Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1903, pp. 835-838) prefers the term "recurrent" to the more commonly used "habitual abortion;" he would limit the use of either term solely to the cases in which from the beginning of married life or from a definite period in it every pregnancy has ended prematurely; and he is of opinion that a "strumous" family history is as important as syphilis in the causation of recurrent miscarriages, the low vitality of one or both parents accounting in Ijoth groups of cases for the premature empty- ing of the uterus. One novel cause of abor- tion may be referred to—the Rontgen rays. M. Fraenkel {Zentralbl. f. Gynilk., xxxi. p. 953 1907), at any rate, used them to induce thera- peutic abortion in the case of a tuberculous woman who was three months pregnant; twenty-five sittings, lasting from five to ten minutes each, were needed before the contents of the uterus were discharged; and, since Fraenkel believes that the abortifacient action of the rays is due to the degenerative changes set up by them in the ovaries and the thyroid gland, he recommends their use (in place of oophorectomy) in cases of osteo-malacia. But, as has been said, it is along the line of the investigation of the means of provoking abortion among the laity that there has been progress during the past five years. We now are better able to define the measures which abortion-mongers (not always outside the medical profession, it must be reluctantly confessed) employ to bring about the empty- ing of the gravid uterus. The British Medical Journal (ii. for 1907, pp. 1657, 1672) has thrown a sudden light into this dark place in professional and non-professional practice. In a leading article on " Emmenagogues in the Newspapers " the following passage occurs : —" Complaints peculiar to the female sex furnish a rich hunting-ground for these un- scrupulous quacks. It is unnecessary for their purpose to emplo)'^ the large and detailed newspaper advertisements familiar in other cases; a small paragraph, with some heading that will catch the eye, announcing a remedy for 'all irregularities so prevalent with the sex,' or, in many cases, merely implying the purposes for which it is put forward, appears to suffice. ... If the bait is taken the game begins in earnest; the sufferer is supplied with printed matter, often with the addition of personal letters, setting forth the virtues of the article in question, but nearly always with the reservation that in certain obstinate cases a more powerful medicine is required, which can be supplied at a much higher price. . . . The most serious consequences, however, are quite apart from the swindling of the purchaser of these nostrums. A considerable number of them are recommended in such a way that the suggestion that they can be used as aborti- facients is very thinly veiled. . . . The purpose for which these preparations are expected to be taken is plainly shown by their being accompanied in so many cases with advertise- ments of quinine pessaries and various appli- ances for preventing conception." That the language used in this quotation is not exagger- ated is fully proved by a perusal of the results of the investigation of " secret remedies " carried out by the British Medical Journal (see, for instance, pp. 1657, 1658, Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1907). Of the part that is being played by the medical profession in the production of abor-