102 CHLOROMA ill one or other of the recorded cases. The marrow of the long bones has been invaded in a good manj^ instances. Colour of Chloroma.—The nodules and deposits are of a very remarkable green tint, which is sometimes so brilliant as to merit the appellation grass-green. More commonly, however, the colour is more like that of greenish pus. In most cases all the tumours have shown this green colour ; in a few the colour has not been universal, but some of the tumours have been red or brown. The nature of the colouring agent is not known. It is neither due to putrefaction, to the action of bacteria, nor to bile pigment. It rapidly fades on exposure to air, and cannot be preserved in any of the ordinary mounting fluids. Faded organs sometimes regain their colour when reducing agents are applied to them ; in other cases peroxide of hydrogen has had a similar effect. It is supposed that the characteristic green colour may be due to blood pigment, or to the presence of highly refractile granules in the tumour cells. Bramwell doubts whether the colour is of identical origin in all cases ; he considers that in some cases of true chloroma the colour may be absent. Pathology.—Histologically the new growths resemble a leuksemic lymphoma. According to Treadgold the chief distinctions are:—(1) In chloroma the infiltration of the walls of the small blood-vessels is better marked; (2) metas- tases are more frequent; (3) the eroding power of the cells is greater, for bone and nerve may be infiltrated and destroyed; (4) the cells are larger and possess more protoplasm. Appa- rently the new growths may be composed either of cells of the lymphocyte type, or granular cells. Warthin found many eosiiiophiles in his case; others have found iieutrophile myelocytes. Meixner divides cases into " myeloid" and " lymphoid" chloroma on the basis of these findings. It is generally agreed tliat chloroma originates in the red marrow. It will be re- membered that after puberty the red marrow is limited to the epiphyses of the long bones, the cranium, sternum, ribs, vertebra?, pelvis, etc.—precisely the sites which are most con- stantly involved by the tumour. Treadgold points out that where, as is often the case, a new growth is found involving diploe, perio- steum, and dura mater, it is only reasonable to suppose that it arises from the red marrow. That it does not originate outside the bones is shown by Meixner's case (myeloid chloroma) in which only the skeleton was invaded by the neoplasm. Classification of Chloroma. — There is much conflict of opinion as to the nosological position of the disease. In some respects it resembles the sarcomata, in others, leukaemia. Dock links it to the leukajmias, and proposes the following scheme:— Aleuksemic Chloroma (?) 1. Small lympho- Chloroma J cyte type (?) (Chloromatous | 2. Large lympho- Leukaemia). cyte type (?) Leuksemic j 3. Neutrophile Chloroma) type 4. Eosinophile type 5. A typical type 6. Mixed type Treadgold looks on the leukasmias and chloroma as very closely allied to the sarcomata. Chloro- matous new groM'ths arise from the myeloblasts of the bone marrow, and therefore the disease is more closely related to acute myelocytic leukaemia than to any other condition. He offers the following scheme to elucidate the inter- relationships of the group of diseases:—(1) Lymphosarcoma. (2) Leucoblastoma (acute lymphatic leukaemia). (3) Lymphocytoma — myelogenous (chronic lymphatic leukaemia) and glandular (pseudo-leukaemia). (4) Myelo- blastoma (acute myelocytic leukaemia and chloroma). (5) Myelocytoma (chronic myelo- cytic leukaemia). Meixner, distinguishing between lymphoid and myeloid chloroma, regards both as sarco- matous: we have lymphosarcoma and chloro- lymphosarcoma and (an as yet hypothetical) myelosarcoma, and chloromyelosarcoma. LITERATURE.—DuNLOP, Brit. Med. Journ., voL i. p. 1072.—Bramwell, Ibid., vol. ii. p. 453, 1902, and Scott. Med. and Surg. Journ., vol. x. p. 219, 1902.—Dock, Trans. Assoc. Amer. Physn. (Phila.), 1904 (with literature to date).—Klein-Stkinhaus, Zentralb. f. ally. Path., Bd. 2, 1904.—Meixner, Wien. klin. Wochensch., No. 20, 1907.—Treadgold, Quarterly Journ. Med., April 1908 (with literature). Chorea..—Poynton and Paine have iso- lated the diplococcus rheumaticus from the cerebro-spinal fluid of cases of fatal chorea; they have produced twitching movements and arthritis by injecting it into rabbits; they have demonstrated it in the pia and brain in chorea and in rabbits which have shown twitching movements. Dr. D. B. Lees urges that since, in the majority of cases, chorea means a brain infected with rheumatic diplococci, the treat- ment which cures rheumatism ought to cure chorea. Acting on this idea he gives to cases of acute chorea large and frequent doses of sodium salicylate. He states that success depends on the amount given daily, a further improvement sometimes following each increase in the dose. In treating a case of chorea (or rheumatism) with the large doses of salicylate advocated by Lees, there is a certain degree of risk of producing acid intoxication (see ACIDOSIS), and