336 SEROTHERAPY plague being contracted, but if it fails to prevent the attack, the probability of a fatal event is reduced by one-half." The use of the prophylactic has no ill effect on the health, and a marked protective influence lasts for six or even twelve months. Serums. — It would be impossible in the short compass of this article to enumerate, much less to particularise, all the serums which have been used or introduced during the past five or ten years. Some of the most important of these (e.g. antidiphtheria serum, "antitoxin " par excellence) have already been described in the Encyclopedia and Dictionary ; of the rest only the chief need be referred to here. 1. Antivieningococcus Rerum (see also CerE- BRO-SPINAL Meningitis).—Flexner's serum is apparently the best remedy for cerebro-spinal meningitis that we possess. A number of papers have appeared giving the results of its use ; one of the most recent and exhaustive is by F. J. Sladen (Johns Hopkins Hosp. Reports, XV., 1910, pp. 397-540, with bibliography). Of Flexner's last analysis of 393 cases treated in America and Great Britain with his serum, 295, or 75 per cent., recovered, and 98, or 25 per cent., died—a case-mortality consider- ably below that of untreated cases; though, of course, it is difficult to state an exact mortality rate for a disease which varies so much in severity in different localities. Ker, for instance, reduced his mortality rate in Edin- burgh, where the disease was of a very severe type, from 80 to 44 per cent. ; whereas in the Mount Sinai Hospital, New York, Koplek's death-rate was only 13"3 per cent. The serum is a specific antiserum produced by immunising horses against the meningo- coccus. It has not yet been standardised. The secret of success is to inject it into the spinal canal, where it reaches the organisms in sufficient concentration to destroy them—a thing not accomplished by the subcutaneous route. The instruments used are a 15c.c. syringe with a long (10 cm.) needle. Sladen also employs a pressure tube to measure the intraspinal pressure by determining the height in millimetres to which the fluid rises in it. Lumbar puncture (in the fourth or third interspace) is performed in the usual way, and cerebro-spinal fluid is allowed to escape until the pressure on the subarachnoid space is subnormal. On an average about 30 c.c. must be withdrawn to effect this. Serum warmed to about 100° F. is then injected. From 10 to 30 c.c. is the amount injected. If larger quantities are administered discomfort may follow. Inoculation with Flexner's serum is indicated in any case of meningitis reasonably suspected of being the epidemic type ; it does no harm. Before a second injection is required time will have allowed of a bacteriological diagnosis. The earlier in the course of the disease the serum is given the greater chance has the patient of recovery. After an injection of the serum the temperature most commonly rises slightly, then falls. In a smaller number of cases it falls at once. Sometimes after having fallen it rises again. In very severe ful- minating cases the temperature may not be affected. The temperature curve is the most important guide to the administration of serum. Ker advises giving injections daily for the first four days, when improvement and fall of temperature will probably have taken place, and repeating the treatment should there be any exacerbation or relapse. The hlood, after serum, shows diminution of the pre-existing leucocytosis. The spinal fluid becomes more cloudy, from an influx of polynuclear leucocytes. Evidence of phagocytosis becomes more appar- ent, and the diplococci cease to stain clearly. When there is evidence of metastatic foci of infection—e.g. arthritis—it seems advisable to try the effect of a local, or a subcutaneous injection of serum as an adjuvant to intra- spinal administration. If Flexner's serum is not available, Kolle and Wasserman's serum or some other prepara- tion should be tried. See also Cerebro-SPINAL Meningitis, p. 98. Antiplague Serum.—Yersin's antiserum must be distinguished from Haffkine's prophylactic, which is a vaccine. The former is prepared by inoculating horses with cultures of plague baccili. In a small epidemic in Glasgow in 1902 Cairns found it of value. In severe attacks it should be injected intravenously as well as subcutaneously. It is bactericidal as well as antitoxic {Lancet, 1903, i. p. 1287). The dose is about 100 c.c. Lustig's serum is mainly antitoxic. In Bombay, 1898-1901, the difference in the mortality of cases treated with and without the serum was from 11 to 22 per cent, in favour of the serum ; 985 patients were treated. Lustig's serum is re- garded as of less proven value than Yersin's. A^itistreptococcus Serum.—On the whole the results of treatment with this serum have been disappointing. This is mainly due to the variety of organisms belonging to the group of streptococci. It is also, no doubt, in part to be ascribed to the use of the serum in forms of sepsis not due to streptococci at all ; to the fact that it is a bacteriolytic serum and deteriorates by keeping; and also to delay in injecting the serum in suitable cases. The difficulty in deciding whether the serum is eflicacious has been enhanced by lack, in many instances, of proof that cases of alleged recovery were really septicaemia at all. In future it is desirable that before " cure " is ascribed to the serum there should be bac- teriological proof of the nature of the infection. It does not, however, follow that the serum