LABOUR, MANAGEMENT OF 234 The controversy of ten or fifteen years ago regarding the management of the third stage of labour has now been almost forgotten, and a safe via media has been found between the method of rapid expulsion of the placenta which was fostered by the use of the Crede grasp and the plan of leaAdng the aftei-birth for hours in the hope of getting spontaneous expulsion (expectant method). Whether the placenta is separated from the uterine wall mainly during a pain or chiefly during the intervals of relaxation may be left uncertain ; but the plan of treatment usually followed is to keep the hand on the fundus during the third stage, to gently knead the uterus if it become very soft and lose its rounded shape between the contiactions, to wait until the organ becomes markedly smaller and harder (usually after five or six alternate hardenings and relaxations), and then to aid expulsion by compression, or if it do not undergo these changes in three-quarters of an hour or an hour, or if haemorrhage occur, to expel it by grasping and squeezing the uterus. Berry Hart {Edin. Med. Journ., N. S., ii. p. 532, 1909) is still of opinion that the placenta separates a,fter the pain, and that the safe time to use hand-grasping of the uterus is after the placenta has separated. British obstetricians, who have widely accepted Matthew D\incan's view that the edge of the placenta is the first part to emei'ge from the cervical canal, will be surprised to learn from Von Winckel {Deutsche med. Wochensch., xxxiv. p. 49, 1908) that in 76 per cent, of all cases the after-birth is ex- pelled in inverted fashion by a more or less extensive haematoma situated retroplacentally, as was described by Schultze. Whilst there has been (as we have seen) much discussion lately regarding the details of the management of an obstetric case, it remains to be added that the whole question of inter- ference versus non-interference in natural con- finements has been the subject of a prolonged and somewhat angry controversy in British medical literature cluring the past three or four years. In March 1906 the late Dr. Horrocks's address on "The Midwifery of the Present Day " was published {Brit. Med. Joum.., i. for 1906, p. 541). In this paper and in the letters and articles which followed it (vide Brit. Med. Joum., i. for 1906, pp. 712, 713, 737, 773, 831, 949, 1012, 1073, 1132, 1199, 1259, 1383, 1448, 1509, 1572; ii. for 1906, pp. 114, 225, 330, 399, 452, 600, etc.) we find marshalled once more in order the arguments for and against interference in labour: on the one side it is stated that 90 or more, probably 95, per cent, of all labours are normal, that " a woman can in most cases deliver herself successfully, without help, without instruction, and without knowledge beyond her own instincts," that parturition is a well-nigh perfect physiological act, that what is needed in its management is patience and ever more patience to give Nature time to act, and the banner which flies over this army of opinion is "meddlesome mid- wifery is bad " ; on the other side, are the reasons for expediting labour, the pain suffered by the parturient woman (severe even in the most normal of confinements), the enervating and debilitating effects of modern conditions of life, the effects of civilisation in increasing the difficulty and consequent delay met with in labour, the frequency of minor troubles following prolonged parturition, and the ease and safety with which manual and instru- mental means may be employed, and the watchword of this body of opinion is that " delays are dangerous." It is simply the renewal of the old controversy of sixty or seventy years ago under modern conditions. With anaesthesia we can lessen or remove the pains of childbirth, and with aseptic and anti- septic methods and the use of well-contrived instruments we can expedite labour with almost complete safety to mother and child; it is little matter for wonder that busy general practitioners apply forceps more often than of old, and believe that by so doing they are con- ferring a benefit upon suffering women. Against them who act thus Dr. Horrocks spoke strongly, saying " that in these days it is little short of criminal to terminate normal labours as quickly as possible by the use of forceps or manual interference." In the fact that such interference could be rendered safe by modern asepsis Horrocks saw no reason for departing from his strongly expressed opinion ; but it is quite evident that this circumstance has an important bearing upon the question, and does go far to justify more frequent resort being made to instrumental aid. It is easy to see also that the very ease and safety with which interference can be carried through is a temptation to treat every case (not actually precipitate) as one requiring artificial assistance. Perhaps the safe modern position in midwifery practice may be said to be founded on the follow- ing general principles:—{a) to adopt the policy of watchful, alert waiting, not interfering so long as the natural forces are acting naturally, but doing so immediately when Nature's forces are inefficient or wrongly directed ; (6) to strive after cleanliness, surgical cleanliness, in patient, in doctor, and in nurse, making asepsis the first line of defence and antisepsis the second, touching the patient's genital organs only with clean hands or boiled implements, and not allowing her natural defences (ger- micidal vaginal mucus, etc.) to be removed or her strength to be depreciated; and (c) to repair at once all injuiies, such as peri- neal, vulvar, vaginal, and cervical lacerations (Ballantyne, Essentials of Obstetrics, p. 58, 1904).