75 BYNIN per cent of dextrin, 0-9 per cent of ash, 8-3 per cent, of alcohol, and having a diastatic power represented by 38. Cacodylates. See Drugs, Eecent. Caesarean Section. Indications 75 Methods 77 The Old Porro 77 The New Porro. . . . .77 Conservative Ccesarean Section . . 78 Extra-peritoneal Section ... 79 Conclusions 80 During the past few years, since the beginning of the twentieth century, a tendency to extend the sphere of Csesarean section has been e^d- dently present, and, with this, there have been sundry alterations in the technique of the operation, some of which, at least, are likely to be permanently retained. Two obstacles remain, the effect of which is to check obstetricians who are desirious of performing the Cesarean section still more frequently; I refer to the patient's (or her husband's) right of veto, and to the unsatisfactory results which have followed the carrying out of the operation late in labour after attempts have been made to deliver the patient in other ways. Indications. — There has been a manifest tendency to increase the number of conditions which should be regarded as indications for the performance of Cajsarean section. (1) Placenta Prcevia.—Lawson Tait proposed Csesarean section as a possilile method of treat- ment in cases of placenta prtevia, but at first no one was bold enough to adopt the suggestion. Reports of cases slowly began to appear ; Bernays {Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc., xxii. p. 687, 1894) recorded the first successful case in 1894, and in 1902 Zinke (Amer. Gyncec. and Ohtet. Journ., xix. p. 334, 1901) was able to refer to eight sections for placenta prajvia in which five mothers and six infants were saved. In six of the eight cases the ordinary Csesarean section was employed and in two Porro's modification. In 1902, Carbonelli (Progresso Med., i. p. 158, 1902) reported three cases; Ehrenfest (Amer. Med., iii. p. 64, 1902), on the other hand, regarded the operation as an improper one in placenta praevia. The operation was thought by its supporters to be specially appi-opriate in a primipara, with a closed os, with the central variety of placenta praevia, in whom the hsemorrhage was profuse and could not be con- ti'olled with tampons. If the Porro operation were performed, an additional advantage was gained in the removal of an organ which might very easily have become septic. Since 1902 there has been little progress in the establish- ment of placenta prievia as a legitimate indica- tion for CaBsarean section. In 1907 Jardine of Glasgow (Journ. Obstet. avd Gyncec. Brit. Emp., xiv. p. 399, 1908) performed the ordinary Cesarean operation successfully in a case of twins with placenta prievia, but the indication was a contracted pehis and not placenta prgevia; and the writer stated that he would never feel justified in doing this operation in an ordinary case. Zweifel (Miinch. med. Wochenschr., liv. p. 2361, 1907) is also opposed to this method of treatment. Munro Kerr (Operative Midwifery, p. 594, 1908), howevei', thinks that in certain exceptional cases of placenta prsevia it might be justifiable to perform Csesarean section; he refers to " old primiparae, where the haemorrhage occurs at full time and before labour has started, and where, to judge by the condition of the parturient canal and the size of the child, delivery would be tedious and difficult." Sellheim (Gynaelc. Rundschau, iii. p. 61, 1909) proposes, not the ordinary Caesarean section, but the extra-peritoneal incision of the uterus (suprasymphysary hysterotomy), in order to reduce the mortality (maternal and foetal) in placenta previa. If, however, we strive to form a fair estimate of the present position of this suggested indication, it must be owned that its supporters have not established a strong claim. In the course of a discussion on Caesarean section in placenta praevia before the American Gynecological Society last April (Amer. Journ. Ohstet., lix. pp. 937-961, 1909) H. D. Fry stated that foity-three cases had Ijcen operated on, with a maternal mortality of 16-3 per cent., and that in the thirteen reported since 1905 the death-rate had fallen to 7'7 per cent. Some of the speakers thought there was a limited field of usefulness for the operation. Recently, vaginal Caesarean section has been performed several times for placenta praevia (by Dtihrssen, Caturani, Weisl)ein, and Biittner) ; but this is quite a diff'erent matter, although it may be said that it has met with even less appi'oval. (2) Accidental Hcemoirhage.—For accidental haemorrhage when the bleeding is concealed, the OS closed, and the uterus inert, it would seem that Caesarean section, or rather the supravaginal foi'm of hysterectomy, might fairly be considered. Munro Kerr (op. cif., p. 606) treated two cases in this way, but both pi'oved fatal. Targett (Journ. Ohstet. and Gyna^c. Brit. Emp., vii. p. 344, 1905), however, had a successful case at the sixth month of pregnancy ; but the patient's recovery was greatly delayed by parametiitis and throm- bosis, and the writer states that on reflection he thinks this would have been a suitable case for the vaginal rather than the abdominal operation. W. Riihl (Zentralh. f. Gyndlc, xx\. p. 1283, 1901) and Bumm (ibid., xxvi. p. 1417, 1902) and others have accordingly performed vaginal Caesarean section for this form of ante-