LABOUE,, MANAGEMENT OF 233 The question had only to be formulated in order to be answered. The ordinary method of treating the cord by tying it at two places and dividing it, and then allowing the stump of it which was left attached to the infant's umbilicus to slough off in five or six days, cannot be called a germ-free plan, even if antiseptic lotions and dressings be carefully employed as well. With such a mode of management there is the risk, when the cord- stump separates (or sooner), of microbic in- fection invading the child's body by the way of the umbilical vessels, more especially if these vessels are long in closing, as there is reason to believe is the case in premature infants (Audion, Bull, et m4m. Soc. anat. de Paris. S. 6, ii. pp. 241, 291, 1900; J. W. Ballantyne^ Physiciaji and Surgeon, i. p. 988, 1900 ; Keller, Zeitsch. f. Geburtsh. u. Gyndk., Iviii. p. 454, 1906). Various plans have consequently been suggested in order to obviate the risks at- tendant upon funic separation by sloughing. Ligation of the cord closer to the abdomen than the point usually selected has been tried (Martin) with red-hot scissors as the cutting agent; Duke {Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1903, p. 615) clamped the stump and so reduced the portion of dead funic tissue adhering to the abdominal wall to a minimum; Gelli {Boll. d. Soc. Tosca.na di ostet. e ginec, i. p. 13, 1902) used a simple clamp, shaped something like a safety-pin ; Bacon {Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc., xxxviii. p. 1071, 1902) cut the Whartonian jelly at the base of the cord and tied the vessels with fine silk or catgut; and even angiotripsy has been recommended. J. W. Ballantyne {Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1909, p. 944) tested six different methods in his hospital practice, e.g. tying the vessels separ- ately, stripping back the sheath of the cord and ligaturing the rest of the cord en masse or the vessels in detail, stripping off the sheath and transfixing the contents and ligaturing them in two portions, etc. ; but in the end he was led to prefer cutting off the cord flush with the skin of the umbilicus, tying the vessels individually, rawing the skin margins, and bringing them together. By the method last named he was able to get healed stumps with some signs of retraction at the fourth day. A somewhat similar procedure was found by Dickinson {loc. cit.) to give the best results also. No doubt the ideal plan is the complete removal at once of any funic tissue which is destined to die, and the closure of the M^ound by surgical methods ; but, while such a plan may be carried out with advantage in Maternity Hospitals, it would be difficult to apply it in private practice. Under the latter circumstances the method of ligation with the subsequent application of moist or dry anti- septic dressings to the stump will still maintain its place; but it may be found to be good practice to compress the stump before tying it, so as to squeeze out as much of the Whartonian jelly as possible. It may be added that Ahlfeld (Deutsche klin. IVochensch., xxxiv. p. 225, 1908) advises tying the cord for the first time about four inches from the umbilical ring, and then in about an hour and a half religaturing it as close as possible to the body of the child; the infant gets his bath between the two tyings. It is not clear that any great change has been made during the past quinquennial period in the method of " supjMrting " or " protecti7ig " the perineum during the passage of the child's head. It is now generally recognised, on the one hand, that meddlesome interference is not always the cause of perineal laceration ; and, on the other hand, it is conceded that the most perfect method of support or protection will sometimes fail to preserve the structural in- tegrity of the part. It would seem to be most desirable that the occipital end of the head as far as the nape of the neck should be born under the pubic arch before extension of the head be allowed to take place, for in this way the small sub - occipito - bregmatic diameter passes through the vulvar ring; it is also advisable that time be allowed (while the head " swings ") for the dilatation of the perineum. The passage of the head over the perineum, like the third stage of labour, is a process rather than an act, and requires time for its due performance. Various plans may be adopted in order to prevent the premature undoing of flexion and to bring about the birth of the occiput before the forehead is allowed to swing over the perineum (see Apfel- stedt, Berl. klin. Wochensch., xliii. p. 1536, 1906; Toff, Mi'mch. med. Wochensch., liv. p. 525, 1907; Ahlfeld, Deutsche med. Wochensch., xxxiii. p. 2121, 1907); but the principle is the same, and the method which involves as little handling of the parts as possible is no doubt the safest if not actually the best. Both the left lateral and the dorsal position of the patient have their advocates ; there is a differ- ence of opinion also as to the usefulness of an ana3sthetic at this stage, and there are many Avays in which manual or digital pressure is recommended to be applied to the advancing forehead; but perhaps Toff's method {loc. cit.) is as satisfactory as any. The patient lies on her left side; the obstetrician stands at the right side of the bed facing her; when the head appears at the vulva he lays his hand thereon, with the fingers directed towards the symphysis pubis ; at each pain he tries to bring down more of the occiput, increasing the flexion; when the occiput has passed under the symphysis and the nape of the neck can be felt under the bone, then, and not till then, does he relax his pressure and allow extension to take place.