LABOUR, FORCEPS IN 223 between 1894 and 1907 there were 697 forceps extractions in the Dresden Lying-in Hospital ■ 63-13 per cent, were done to save the child, 14-2 per cent, to save the mother, and the rest for the sake of both mother and child ; and that lesions due to the forceps were produced in 73'6 per cent, of the mothers and in 6-7 per cent, of the infants. He, therefore, thinks that the forceps in contracted pelves must be used with the greatest care and skill, that the high forceps operation is very dangerous, and that heliotomy or Csesarean section ought to be performed in its place. He goes so far as to condemn absolutely the high forceps in the hands of the general practitioner, and recom- mends him to do hel)otomy, or, when this cannot be done, perforation even of the living child (!). Leopold {Arch. f. Gynaek., Ixxxi. p. 731, 1907) holds somewhat similar views and uses the high forceps very seldom; in 81 per cent, of the patients with pelvic contraction spontaneous delivery occurred, and Weindler (ibid., p. 718, 1907) also refers to this matter, stating that delivery without instrumental aid took place in pelves with a C.V. as small as 7 cm. It seems, therefore, as if the numerous cases of forceps delivery in this country (for pelvic contraction) were largely those which were left to deliver themselves in Dresden. It must be noted, however, that, while the forceps is being less used in Germany, its place is being taken by such cutting operations as pubiotomy and Csesarean section and not as a rule by the plan of waiting for natural expulsion. If we may judge from current obstetric litera- ture, the present time is the operative era in midwifery. With regard to the type of forceps in use, no great change in opinion or practice has to be I'ecorded. The axis-traction principle of forceps action is still that which is generally regarded as superior in theory ; some obstet- ricians, however, would stop here, and argue that in practice it is unnecessary to use any other than forceps with a pelvic curve. The latter opinion is founded upon the fact that the chief advantage of axis-traction forceps is ease of extraction, and that it is only in excep- tional cases that such a pair of forceps would succeed when the simple type has failed ; but, surely, it is well to use hy preference the instrument which gives the greatest amount of help in all cases. What may be called the spectre of the danger of the fixation-screw of axis-traction forceps was laid by Milne Murray in his letter to the British Medical Journal early in 1904, just before his lamented death. There still exists some difference of opinion as to the most suitable part of the forceps to which to attach the axis-traction rods. In Tarnier's forceps and in the British types (modelled upon Tarnier's) of Sir Alexander Simpson and the late Milne Murray, the rods are fixed just below the fenestrse of the blades ; while in Neville's forceps and others their attachment is to the upper part of the handles near the lock. Theoretically the former is undoubtedly the more correct position; but possibly the greater ease of application and the simplification of the instrument found in the latter type may compensate for some loss of traction power and accuracy of direction, although Munro Kerr (02Jerative Midwifery, p. 336, 1908) does not think so. Labour, Induction of Prema- ture. Terminology 223 Objections 223 Indications 224 Methods 225 The induction of premature labour, more especially for a medium degree of pelvic defor- mity, is perhaps the obstetric operation which more than any other deserves to be known as "British." With Continental opinion always opposed to it, and with Transatlantic support never more than lukewarm, this operation seemed destined to pass out of use altogether save in Great Britain : the revival of sym- physiotomy, the perfecting of forceps, the im- provement in the technique and results of the Csesarean section, these all seemed to be driving the induction of labour off the field, and even in this country there were not wanting signs that it was being less employed than formerly. During the past two or three years, however, there have been indications that this despised method was beginning again to attract attention. It is only fair in judging by results that the operation of inductio7i of ahortioti iov medical reasons should be separated from the induction of premature labour : the former has been termed "therapeutic foeticide" (for, of course, it involves the death of the foetus), whereas the latter is performed after the unborn infant is viable, and may save the child as well as the mother. The operations are quite distinct in their indications, and ought not to be compared in their results. It is doubtful even if it be fair to include the cases in which induction is performed at the end of the sixth or in the seventh month, when the viability of the foetus is hardly established; and certainly the instances in which labour is induced because pregnancy has gone beyond the full term, although their results are often quite satisfactory, cannot be called premature, because they are indeed /jos^- mature labours. If these cases were removed from our lists of operative successes and failures, a much fairer opinion could be formed of the merits of the induction of premature labour. Among the objections, which have been made to the performance of artificial interruption