ABORTION 11 pregnancy were openly written about and described in the public prints; and he emphasised the fact that when prevention failed and conception occurred, recourse was very often had to the criminal procedure of inducing abortion. Priismann (Zeitsch. f. Geburtsh. u. G-i/ndk., liv. pp. 372-377, 1905) has drawn the veil aside, and has shown to the world an instrument which a woman could herself employ to get rid of her pregnancy : he has told how women learned to feel the os with the finger of one hand, and with the other hand to introduce the nozzle of the instrument into the cervical canal, and so to inject a solution of lysol into the cavity of the pregnant uterus. Priismann was led to show this instru- ment, which was openly sold " for the treatment of discharges," because of the marked increase of cases of abortion in the Gynaecological and Obstetrical Clinics; thus in the latter there were, in the two years previous to the reading of his paper, respectively out of 3283 cases, 808 abortions, and out of 3188 patients, 951 abortions. In England and Scotland, also, abortions would seem to be increasing. Sir A. R. Simpson (Scot. Med. and Surg. Journ., xvii. pp. 481- 496, 1905), in an address on "Criminal Abor- tion," said: "Our Transatlantic colleagues deplore the extent which the evil practice has attained in America, where the number of men and women who are known to make a business of abortioning seems to be greater than in Europe. Great Britain is in no position to cry shame on any of its neigh- bours." That there was some foundation for Sir A. R. Simpson's foreboding has been demonstrated by a remarkable series of articles and letters in the British Medical Journal on the subject of the increasing use of lead as an abortifacient (Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1905, p. 584; ii. for 1905, p. 130; i. for 1906, pp. 257, 259, 428, 456, 499, 556, 620; ii. for 1907, p. 1672, etc.). The lead was taken apparently in the form of diachylon pills (it will be remembered that diachylon contains emflastrum plumbi) ; and, although it was present only in small amount in each pill, the effect when sixty-one pills were taken in a week (as in one of Hall's cases, Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1905, p. 587) could scarcely fail to be serious. The practice was specially prevalent in the Midland Counties of England, but was evidently spreading rapidly (Hall and Ransom, Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1906, pp. 428- 430). The diachylon was bought in the form of penny lumps and made up into pellets. In a fatal case, repoi'ted by J. G. Priestley {Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1906, p. 778), the pills were found to contain from 50 to 70 per cent, of diachylon, with aloes to prevent constipation, and boric acid; but the more common practice appears to be the use of diachylon itself in irregular lumps. Classification.—For a good many years obstetricians have been satisfied with the arrangement of the causes of abortion into the three groups of paternal, maternal, and ovular ; but, obviously, this is far from being a perfect classification, for paternal causes are dubious, and ovular ones can only be recognised after the miscarriage has taken place, and after the contents of the uterus have been submitted to examination. F. J. Taussig (Amer. Journ. Obstet., Iviii. pp. 654-662, 1908) has tried to make a more scientific etiological arrangement of mis- carriages, although he admits that "what we do not know concerning the causes of abortion is far greater than what we do know." There are two subdivisions, the predisposing and the exciting. The former he divides into three groups: (1) increased .sensitiveness to nerre irritation, arising from (a) temperament; (b) fre- quent abortions in quick succession; (c) or the incidence of a menstrual date: (2) greater tendency to placental thrombosis, due to (a) endo- metritis ; (b) uterine congestion from constipa- tion or sexual connection: and (3) lessened resistance to eocpulsion of the uterine contents from (a) the presence of cervical lacerations; or {b) the antecedent amputation of the cervix. The latter (the exciting) causes are placed in five groups. There is (1) mechanical irrita- tion, which may be either (a) transmitted, as in the occurrence of a blow or fall, or of pro- longed jarring (as in railway travelling, dancing, etc.), or of straining (as in constipation) ; or (i) direct, when the irritation may be applied to the outside of the uterus, as in the case of adhesions dragging or pushing the organ out of place, or from its manipulation during the bimanual examination or in a laparotomy, or to the inside of the uterus, as in the introduc- tion of foreign bodies (sound, bougie, etc.), or in the presence of an excessive quantity of liquor amnii, or of intra-uterine tumours, or of exudates or clots. There is (2) thermic irrita- tion, which may aff'ect the whole body as in cold sea-bathing, or only the pelvic region as in the use of hot vaginal douching or the hot sitz-bath. There is (3) the important group of cases produced by toxic irritation, due to chemical, bacterial, or placental toxines : among the chemical agents may be named all emniena- gogues (e.g. ergot), lead-poisoning, and carbon dioxide; among the bacterial, the various infectious diseases of the mother; and among the placental, the poisons arising in the course of eclampsia, hyperemesis, chorea, and acute yellow atrophy of the liver. There is (4) nerve irritation, which may be psychic (including emotion, fright, severe pain) or reflex (opera- tions on external genitals, irritation of the breasts, etc.). Then the last group (5) is that in which the exciting cause is death of the foetus, and this may be due to congenital inanition (alcoholism or illness of parents), congenital de-