CEREBROSPINAL MENINGITIS, EPIDEMIC 97 capricious in the extreme. Cases occur scattered all over a town; they neither select especially the poorer quarters, nor group themselves in streets or houses, as might be expected to take place were there direct infection from patient to patient. In 1906 Jehle published the results of some very interesting investigations on the mode of spread of the disease, in an epidemic occurring in two mining districts, Orlau and Neumiihl. He showed that cases which occurred in rapid succession in point of time were separated from each other by such distances as to put the idea of direct contagion out of count. Children, who form a majority of the patients, cannot be carriers of the infection, for school epidemics do not occur. Jehle then looked to the adult popu- lation in his search for infection-carriers. In the districts under his supervision there were various mining villages, the inhabitants of which worked in different mines, so that in each village there were workers in several mines, and in each mine, dwellers in several villages. Children who fell victims to cerebro-spinal fever were nearly all members of families of miner's who worked in one or two particular mines, while neigh- bouring children, whose parents worked in other mines, escaped. Other channels of inter-com- munication did not complicate the research. Mines, according to Jehle, being warm, damp, sunless places, favour the growth of the meningococcus. They may act as foci of infection, just as schools do with regard to measles. Miners become infected with menin- gococci without contracting the disease; it flourishes in their post-nasal spaces, and is disseminated by sneezing and coughing. As a class, miners are prone to catarrh; children do not expectorate and sneeze as adults do, hence even when they harbour meningococci they are not dangerous sources of infection. Further confirmation of Jehle's theory is afforded by the following facts:—At Neumiihl there are two large mines, the workers in which inhabit sepa- rate villages communicating freely with one another by rail and tram. For the first four weeks of the epidemic cases occurred in only one of these villages; from 10th February on- ward cases cropped up in the second, and then the epidemic became general. During the first period no miner was transferred from one mine to the other; early in February, some miners left the infected mine and went to the other; ten days later the disease appeared in a hitherto uninfected village. This theory of the epidemi- ology of the disease, that adults chiefly transmit, and children chiefly become infected with, without transmitting, the disease, explains why, when several children in a house suffer, they are usually attacked almost simultaneously, while in garrisons, etc., where adults are congregated together, they are attacked successively. An investigation at Leith in 1907 led to similar conclusions. Comrie and Fraser found meningococci in the nares of 10 out of 69 con- tacts. Of these 69 contacts, 15 were fathers of patients, 54 were in some other relationship. Five of the infected contacts were fathers, 5 were not fathers; that is, 33 per cent, of the fathers harboured meningococci, as against 9 per cent, of the not-fathers. Of the 15 fathers 5 worked on a ship lying in Leith Docks; in the air of the engine-room meningococci were found. The generally accepted view of the trans- mission of the disease may be stated thus:— The meningococcus can be discovered in the upper air passages of all cases of cerebro-spinal fever provided it is sought for early enough in the disease; it is also present in healthy contacts (bacilli-carriers). Bacilli-carriers are probably about four times as numerous as patients (Lingelsheim); they have little tendency to contract the disease. Susceptibility to the disease is rather limited (to children, especially); the predisposition to receive and harbour the organism is somewhat general. Commonly, but not invariably, it is associated with nasal catarrh; this predisposes to, but is not a result of, the reception of the or- ganism. The meningococcus disappears from the naso-pharynxin a fortnight (dating from the time it is discovered) in 75 per cent., and by the end of the third week in 90 per cent., of cases. Apparently the carriers who are most dan- gerous are adults whose occupation brings them in contact with numbers of children, and who, suffering from catarrh, are careless about sneez- ing and expectorating. Children are much less dangerous as carriers, for school epidemics do not occur. 3. Relation of Epidemic to Posterior Basic Meningitis.—While an acute case of cerebro-spinal fever is totally distinct from a typical case of posterior basic meningitis, it is impossible by reference to the clinical symptoms alone to draw a hard and fast line between the two diseases. During the Edinburgh epidemic of 1907 several cases were admitted to the wards of the Sick Children's Hospital, which in their course and symptoms were practically indis- tinguishable from oi'dinary post-basic meningitis. The most that could be said was, that they differed in some minor particular—e.g. herpes was relatively common, whereas it is rare in sporadic posterior basic meningitis. In its cul- tural and tinctorial reactions. Still's organism (to which posterior basic meningitis is due) resembles Weichselbaum's meningococcus very closely indeed. If we regard the two diseases as having an identical etiology, posterior basic meningitis would represent the sporadic (and attenuated) form of cerebro-spinal fever, and we might look upon it as the means by which the contagion is kept alive between epidemics. To this hypothesis, however, certain difficulties oppose themselves. Posterior basic meningitis is always present in large communities; epi- 7