40 ANTENATAL PATHOLOGY once become apparent that, theoretically, the pathology of germinal life ought to consist of anomalies in the formation of the first rudi- ments of the embryo, of malformation of the blastocyst and its contained parts (amniotic sac, umbilical vesicle, trophoblast), of unusual modes of segmentation, of errors in the details of the impregnation of the ovum by the sper- matozoa, of imperfect maturation of the ovum, of imperfect formation of spermatoblasts and spermatozoa, of irregularities in the site of fertilisation (ovarian or tubal instead of intra-uterine), and of the incidence of morbid influences upon the germ cells during the long time when these structures are lying in the genital glands of parents and ancestors. Ger- minal pathology may be expected to be made up of the pathology of the blastocyst, of that of the morula mass, of that of fertilisation, of that of maturation, and of all the effects of the subjection of the germ cells to abnormal influences in earlier periods of the life of the individual while in the dual stage of existence {i.e. morbid heredity). A theory constructed along these lines does, as a matter of fact, form a working hypothesis which serves to explain the diverse phenomena of germinal pathology; anomalies of segmentation may be the causes of the hydatid mole and of the " rests " (themselves hypothetical) which many believe to have much to do with the etiology of tumours ; irregu- larities in the place of fertilisation may have something to do with ectopic pregnancy; irregularities in the mode of impregnation {e.g. polyspermy) may be the root causes of double monsters ; defects in maturation may underlie and explain the development of dermoid cysts and of the rare cases of foetus in fcetu ; and unusual chemical and physical agencies acting upon the germ cells in their long period of latency may be, in part at least, the deter- mining factors in the production of " heredi- tary " anomalies. Ballantyne suggests further {op. cit., ii. p. 617) that the same ultimate agencies are the causes alike of the pathological developments of germinal life, of the more strictly teratological states of embryonic life, and of the diseases of foetal existence ; he believes these agencies to be toxinic, microbic, toxico- logical, and traumatic; and he regards the diversity of results as due to the very different conditions under which the causes are acting, and to the very dissimilar character of the organism (germ, embryo, fcutus) upon which they exert their morbid influence. He is of opinion, therefore, that there are no special causes of germinal deviations, of embryonic malformations, and of foetal diseases ; the special characters of these morl)id manifestations are to be explained in another fashion, they are to be looked upon as due to peculiarities of environ- ment and to the chai'acteristics of the life of the antenatal period of existence in question. Etiology. — From what has been already stated regarding foetal, embryonic, and germinal pathology it will be evident that Ballantyne {Antenatal Pathology, vols. i. and ii., 1902, 1904) advocates the theory of the identity of morbid agency. He regards the morbid phenomena of antenatal life as due to the same causes as produce diseases in postnatal existence, viz. microbes, toxines, and toxinic products, toxi- cological agents (chemical and vegetable poisons), and traumatism; and he explains the extra- ordinary difference in the results produced as brought about by the peculiarities of the life of the period dealt with and of the environment which is characteristic of this or that epoch of antenatal existence. The ftetus, so to say, lives under the influence of the placenta, and this fact alone determines to a large extent the character of its morbid developments; the embryo is dominated by the amniotic environ- ment, a circumstance which, taken along with the evolutionary and constructive nature of its vital activities, has much to do with the peculiar teratological nature of its pathology; and the germ has a life which is so extraordinarily different, both in its unified and in its dual existence, from anything else that it is not to be wondered at if its deviations from the physiological standard are also of their own kind, in a very special way. This theory is supported by the results of experimental tera- togeny, or the artificial production of mon- sti'osities, as carried out by Dareste, but more especially by the experiments of Fere, who injected toxic and toxinic substances into de- veloping hens' eggs with teratological effects. Franklin P. Mall {Study of the Causes Under- lying the Oiigin of Human Monsters, 1908) has recently brought forward strong evidence in favour of the view that pathological embryos and small monsters are identical and are developed from normal ova due to external influences (" faulty implantation "); and these conclusions support to a large extent the view which has been advanced that teratology is simply disordered embryology, and that the cause of the disorder is some influence acting upon the embryo from without. SchM^albe's fine work, now in process of publication, also contains many observations on teratogenesis which go to prove the teratogenic eff'ect of external agents upon the organism in the embryonic stage of its existence {Die Morphologie der Missbildungen des Mevschen und der Thierc, parts i., ii. and iii., 1906, 1907, 1909). There is still, however, a tendency among writers on these subjects to separate the monstrosities and malformations from the other results of the action of morbid agencies upon the organism before birth ; teratology has for so long a time stood by itself that there is little likelihood of its being considered as nothing more than one subdivision of antenatal patho- logy. At the same time, evidence is accumu-