221 KIDNEYS, SURGERY OF subcutaneous injection of '005 gr. phloridzin in 20-30 minims of water is given. Glucose should appeal' in the urine in half an hour. The average quantity eliminated during the first half-hour is '5 per cent. If the kidneys are diseased this quantity is reduced by a half, and very little more is secreted in the first than during the second half-hour. If no sugar is present the kidneys are seriously affected, if its excretion is delayed there is renal insufficiency. The test is more delicate than the preceding. Operative Treatment of Nephritis.—Decap- sulation of the kidney. Edebohls has proposed partial oi' complete removal of the capsule of the kidney as a method of treating nephritis. It is claimed that after capsulectomy and the replacement of the denuded kidney in its fatty bed adhesions form and a new and additional blood supply is furnished to the organ. It is impossible to formulate definite indications for the operation, which has not, for the most part, been followed by very good results, or been received favourably by surgeons, although it has been the subject of a good deal of discussion in surgical journals (Edebohls, N. Y. Med. Record, Ixviii., 1904, 21st May ; Phila- delphia Med. Jonrn., 1904, 21st-28th May). Garre and Ehrhardt (Mitth. a. d. Greuzgeb. d. Med. u. Chir., Hit. 2, 1904) regard operation as contra-indicated in the treatment of acute nephritis, unless in occasional cases of total anuria. They do not regard the results of Edebohls' operation as encouraging. The experimental evidence that, in fact, decapsula- tion does actually result in a fresh collateral circulation is confiicting. Thus Herxheimer and Walker Hall {Brit. Med. Jourjt., 9th April 1904) found that in animals suffering from experimental nephritis, as well as in normal animals, the capsule was speedily renewed, and exceeded the old one in thickness; that, though decapsulation seemed harmless, there was no evidence of extensive collateral circu- lation being established ; and that the course of the nephritis was uninfluenced by the opera- tion. Liek {Deut. Med. Woch., 1908, p. 4) did not find that by decapsulation he could re- establish a collateral circulation. Thelemann {ibid., 1904, p. 15) comes to the same results. Martini's experiment (^rcA.y! klin. chir., 1905, Ixxviii. p. 3) seemed to prove, however, that in the dog a certain degree of collateral circula- tion is established by decapsulation. Stern {Deut. Med. Woch., 1905, p. 11) thinks that in certain cases surgery may do good in chronic nephritis ; splitting of the kidney in cases of oedema and anuria; splitting of the capsule and puncture of the kidney for oedema and chronic diminution of the urine; decap- sulation for albuminuria without oedema. Roosing is strongly against the operative treatment of true bilateral nephritis (Bright's disease), and equally in favour of operation in suitable cases of local, infective {e.g. tuber- culous) nephritis. He very properly lays stress on the importance of correct diagnosis, and on the need for bacteriological and microscopical as well as chemical examination of the urine {Centralbl. f. Chir., 1904, p. 17). Mohr is also against the operation (Volkmann's Samvil. kl. Vortrdge, N.F., p. 383), and Israel, who operated on six cases of true nephritis, found that the operation was dangerous, was not followed by permanent cure, and was only in some cases of temporarj'' benefit. Guiteras {Wew York Med. Journ., 7th-14th Nov. 1903) is more favourable. He circularised 150 of the leading American surgeons on the subject, and about half were ranged on each side. One point which sug- gests itself is that the term chronic nephritis is not accurately defined. It is noteworthy that in many cases the coincidence of " Bright's disease" and movable kidney is spoken of; some, e.g. Fergusson {Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc., 1904, 16th April), hold that every movable kidney is chronically inflamed and must there- fore be opei-ated on, The following are the statistics collected by Guiteras:—120 cases, with 16 per cent, cures, 40 per cent, improve- ment, 11 per cent, no improvement, 33 per cent, deaths. The best results were given by the decapsulation and fixation of movable kidney in which nephritis (albuminuria and casts) was present. This often disappeared after operation. In cases of interstitial nephritis the result was often striking—dis- appearance of albumin and casts. The mortal- ity in chronic interstitial nephritis was 26 per cent.; in chronic parenchymatous nephritis 25 per cent. ; in chronic diffuse nephritis 579. It is not easy, out of all the conflicting literature, to glean any very definite informa- tion as to the true position of surgery in nephritis, but the following suggestions may be made :—(1) The majority of the papers on the subject appeared about the years 1903-5, and since then there has been less written on the subject. It would seem, then, that the ultimate results of the operation have not been what were hoped. (2) Apparently the cases opei-ated on included a variety of different diseases—movable kidney, unilateral nephritis, haemorrhage from the kidney, and true Bright's disease. (3) The operation is not justifiable in Bright's disease. (4) The frequency with which nephritis is present in cases of mov- able kidneys suggests the propriety of de- capsulation as well as fixation (Fergusson). (5) In a miscellaneous class of cases of " uni- lateral nephritis," which includes obstinate pain in one kidney region, hsematuria, etc., operation may be undertaken. Here, how- ever, the question of diagnosis requires care- ful consideration. (6) In the last-mentioned group nephrotomy, with or without drainage,