335 SEROTHERAPY itis, but the vaccine treatment of these diseases is on a much less certain basis than that of chronic discharging empyema. 4. Gonococcus Infections.—Owing to the great variations in the virulence of different strains of gonococci, and consequently of the activity of vaccines, the dose should be small, 5-10 millions. Very small doses are desirable in gonococcal iritis. Some cases of chronic gleet fail to be benefited by vaccines because the gonococci have died ■out, and staphylococci of low virulence are responsible for the discharge (Bosanquet and Eyre). See also Gonorrhoea. •5. Bacillus coli Infection.—In acute infec- tions, doses of 10-20 million ; in chronic, doses of 20 million, increasing to 100 million or more may be used. Autogenous vaccines should be employed. Good results have been obtained in chronic infections of the urinary tract. 6. Miscellaneous Infections.—Vaccines have also been tried in the following diseases of bacterial origin : — Meningococcus meningitis. Only a few attempts have been made, and the vaccine treatment of the disease has been superseded by the meningococcus serum {vide infi-a). Rheumatic diseases. — Treatment of rheumatic manifestations with vaccines of the micrococcus rheumaticus has not been satis- factory. Nasal catarrh.—Vaccines consisting of 25-150 millions of micrococcus catarrhalis have been used by Allen {Lancet, 1909, ii. pp. 1589, 1659). Actinomycosis has also been treated by a vaccine. Chronic infective endo- carditis. — Horder advises a vaccine of 10 million of the infecting organism repeated every 4-7 days, increasing the dose if no good is obtained by these quantities. Tuberculosis. —The vaccine treatment by tuberculin is dis- cussed under the head of " Tuberculosis." Chronic dysentery has also been treated with vaccines of Shija's bacillus. Vaccines have been used both in the treatment and prophy- laxis of Malta fever. It may be noted, in conclusion, that some- times where an autogenous vaccine fails, a stock vaccine of a more virulent character will be successful, e.g. a stock vaccine of staphylo- coccus aureus instead of an autogenous vaccine of staphylococcus albus. Prophylactic Vaccination.—Inoculation with vaccines has been used as a prophylactic against plague, typhoid fever, and cholera. It has also been tried, though much less extensively, be- fore operations with a view of preventing infection. In the latter instance staphylo- coccus, streptococcus, and h. coli vaccines have been employed. The results are said to warrant further trial of the method in cases in which septic infection is feared. A further group of cases in which prophylactic inoculation has been used consists of acute infections which have a marked tendency to recur, e.g. influenza, acute nasal catarrh, acute sore throat, etc. The success, or lack of success, which attends efforts to secure in this way immunity from these troublesome maladies, depends, appar- ently, in large measure upon the specificity of the vaccine. Horder reports gratifying results in the prophylaxis of acute sore throat from inoculation with an autogenous vaccine. Antityphoid Vaccination {see also TYPHOID Fever). — Wright introduced a prophylactic vaccine, consisting of dead cultures of b. typhosus, in 1901. Two injections, of 500 and 1000 millions respectively, are given at a fort- night's interval. They cause local reaction (lymphangitis) and some fever. Inoculation does not produce absolute immunity, bat seems to confer a very considerable degree of protec- tion, and if the person who has been inocu- lated does subsequently contract typhoid, the disease generally assumes a mild form. The following illustrative figures may be given :— British army in India, 1901 — Inoculated, 4883 ; cases of typhoid, 32 (■66 per cent.); deaths, 3 ("06 per cent.). Uninoculated, 55,955 ; cases of typhoid, 744 (1-33 per cent); deaths, 199 (•.36 per cent.). More complete statistics are given by Sir A. E. Wright in The Practitioner, 1904, p. 370. Anticholera Vaccination.—Haffkine's method of anticholera inoculation is referred to in the article Cholera {Encyclopedia and Diction- ary, II. p. 123). He has now given 70,000 injections in 42,179 individuals without acci- dent. Two injections are given at intervals of 5 days. There is local and general reaction, and each injection is followed by an increased sus- ceptibility of a few days' duration. Immunity is attained in five days. It seems, therefore, that while it would be advisable to inoculate against cholera when a person has to go into a district where the disease is prevalent, it should not be done unless ten days can be allowed for immunity to develop. For the same reason it is probably unwise to inoculate in the actual presence of an epidemic. Antiplague Vaccination.—Haffkine's prophy- lactic is used. Protection is rapidly acquired within 24 hours. Bannerman thinks that the injection does not aggravate an attack even if made during the incubation period. He states that in a total of 6000 cases the mortality among the inoculated was 43-5 per cent. ; among the uninoculated, 73-7 per cent. Haff- kine sums up the results {Bull. hist. Pasteur, iv. p. 825) thus :—Inoculated, 186,797 ; 3399 (1'8 per cent.) infected with plague; 814 (0-4 per cent.) died. Uninoculated, 639,630 ; 49,433 (7-7 per cent.) infected with j^lague ; 29,733 (4-7 per cent.) died. In the Annual Reports of the Sanitary Commissioner with the Government of India for 1904 and 1905 it is said " that its value is great is certain ; not only does it largely diminish the danger of