ERYTHEMA INFECTIOSUM AND OTHER DOUBTFUL EXANTHEMATA 151 A fifth eruptive fever of this type was described by Pospischill in 1904. It is said to have occurred in epidemic form in Vienna. The main characteristics of the eruption are that while on the arms, legs, and trunk it tends to remain macular, on the face the spots coalesce, and give rise to large patches of erythema on the cheeks, over which the skin is hot to the touch, tense, and glistening. The rash is practically the only symptom. There is neither exanthem, glandular enlarge- ment, strawberry tongue, nor desquamation. The incubation period is believed to be from six to fourteen days ; children are most liable. Apparently erythema infectiosum (as the new disease is called) has not been recognised in epidemic form outside Vienna. It is of interest to note that in 1902 Dr. Ker expressed the opinion that there might be a new disease apart from measles, German measles, and scarlet fever, though he was not prepared to accept Dukes's "Fourth Disease" as demon- strated. Shaw (to whose paper a plate of erythema infectiosum is appended) states that the disease is more like German measles than any other of the exanthemata, and that it may be the disease heralded by Ker. REFERENCES.—Ker, Practitioner, Feb. 1902.— Pospischill, Wien. klin. Wochensch., No. 25, 1904.— Shaw, Amer. Journ. Med. Sci., Jan. 1905. Erythrsemia..—The disease described first by Vaquez in 1892, and afterwards by a number of physicians of note, including Cabot, M'Keen, and Osier {Lancet, i. for 1908, p. 14-3) ; it has been called th^maladie de Vaquez, Osier's disease, and splenomegalic polj'cy- thaemia as well as the rubric at the head of this paragraph. The essential feature is polycy- thsemia of a very remarkable kind, as many as 12,000,000 or even 13,000,000 red blood corpuscles per cubic millimetre haA'ing been counted (hence the name polycythsemia rubra sometimes given to the malady) ; enlargement of the spleen is present and varies in amount; there is marked cyanosis which speedily attracts attention (face, hands, feet), and when the dusky skin is irritated by a sharp pencil the " white line" resulting is a broad anaemic band ; other occasional symptoms are headache, vertigo, nausea, vomiting, constipation, high- blood pressure, slight albuminuria, and haemor- rhages (haemoptysis, hsematuria). Fi'om the pathological standpoint the disease is a true polysemia {jplethora vera), and post-mortem examinations have revealed in addition hyper- plasia of all the tissue elements of the spleen and intense hyperplasia of the bone marrow (myelomatosis rubra). Little is known regard- ing treatment; in the meantime it must be mainly symptomatic. Umney's case {Lancet, i. for 1909, p. 1243) showed chorea and general thrombosis ending fatalh^ Erythrokatalysis.—Phagocytosis of red cells without extra-cellular solution as a form of lilood destruction. See Blackwatbr Fever {Experimental Hmmolysis). Erythrol Tetranitrate.—'See Arte- rial Hypertonus {Co/Hne of Hyper tonus). ErythropyknOSiS.—Changes in the red blood corpuscles invaded by the parasite of malarial fever, leading to what is known as a " brassy" appearance of them along with crena- tion of their edges and of some parts of their flat surfaces (Gr. i^vdgog, red; Trv/.vog, compact). Eug'allol.—See Psoriasis {Drugs, pyro- gallol-mono-acetate). Eug^enics. Definition 151 Historical Note 151 Scope and Objects . . . .152 Literature 153 Definition and Historical Note.—Eugenics is the science of well-begetting or good-breeding; it has to do with the production of fine offspring, especially in connection with the human race ; it encourages parenthood on the part of the worthy, and discourages it on the part of the unworthy ; and so, inferentially, it would refuse the right to propagate, the right to become a parent, to the unfit. In 1883 the late Sir Francis Galton, in his book entitled Human Faculty (p. 44), seems first to have used the term eugenics, writing, as he then did, of " the investigation of human eugenics, that is, of the conditions under which men of a high type are produced." Eugodsm, according to the same author, is " the aggregate of the most favourable conditions for healthy and happy existence." It cannot be said that the new science took much hold upon the mind of the nineteenth century, provoking, as it was bound to do, the retort that " people will fall in love, in spite of your eugenics " ; but the early years of the twentieth century have witnessed an active propaganda consisting in the establishment of a Francis Galton Laboratory for National Eugenics in connection with the University of London, in the publication of Eiigenics Laboratory Memoirs, in the formation of the Eugenics Education Society, and in the appearance (in April 1909) of the first part of the Eugenics Review. In Germany there is a somewhat similar movement with a journal entitled the Archiv fiir Ra.ssen- %md-Gesellschnfts-Biologie, the scope of which is somewhat wider than that of eugenics ; and in the United States of America the consideration of the betterment of the race has proceeded to its logical conclusion, the sterilisation of the unfit, and the State of Indiana has passed an