218 KALA-AZAR Ka.la.-AZ£ir.—{See Encyclopedia and Dic- tionary of Medicine, Vol. X., p. 115). — ETIOLOGY. —The parasite which is now known to cause kala-azar was firstdemonstrated in 1903 by Leish- man in post-mortevi smear preparations from the spleen of a soldier who died in London from chronic fever contracted in Dum-Dum (" Dum- Dum fever"). Leishman regarded the new organism as a degenerated form of trypanosome. As soon as Leishman's paper reached India, Donovan realised that he had already observed the same organism in the spleens of patients dying from pi'olonged fever in Madras. He, however, denied that the parasite was a trypanosome, and Laveran, to whom specimens had been sent, formed the opinion that it was a piroplasma. In the same year, Wright dis- covered structures resembling these " Leishman- Donovan bodies" in the tissues of the Delhi boil, and it was at first thought that the two were identical. It is now believed, however, that the parasite found by Wiight is not, in fact, the same as that of Leishman and Donovan. An important step was taken when Rogers, and subsequently James, showed that the Leishman-Donovan bodies were constantly present in the spleen in cases of kala-azar. The observation has been so thoroughly con- firmed that it is now certain that they are the cause of the disease. {See Protozoa.) As originally described by Ijcishman, the organism is a small, round or oval structure, from 2 to 3 /A in diameter, containing two masses of chromatin, one large and circular, the other smaller and rod-shaped—the macro- nucleus and micronucleus respectively. These stain deep red with Romanowsky, and are embedded in a faintly blue-staining cytoplasm. The organism is found either singly or- in clumps of from 20 to 50. It is found in every organ of the body, but is most numerous in the spleen, bone marrow, and liver. In the circulating blood it is scanty, especially during the early stage of the disease ; but in the later stages it is possible to demonstrate its presence in more than 75 per cent, of cases. The organism exists chiefly in the large en- dothelial cells of the spleen and marrow; it multiplies in these by division until the invaded cell bulges and ruptures into a vessel. In the blood the parasite is found in the polynuclear leucocytes, but not, apparently, in the red corpuscles—an important point in connection with its supposed relationship to the piroplasma. The further development of the parasite has been elucidated by Rogers. He found that by incubating blood containing the parasite at low temperatures (22° C.) rapid multiplication took place, the organism mean- while developing a blue-staining cytoj^lasm, and then acquiring flagella and the power of active movement. At this stage the parasite was elongated instead of round or oval, and its flagella arose from the region of the micronucleus. Multiplication of the flagellar forms is effected by a process of division, beginning with the micronucleus and flagellura, and extending to the macronucleus and proto- plasm. This process of division is repeated until a rosette-shaped mass of organisms is formed, the flagella being centrally, the bodies radiallj' placed. Ultimately the actively mobile organisms break away from the rosette, undergo regressive changes, and are found {in vitro) in the polynuclear leucocytes as the original oval Leishman-Donovan bodies. From the absence of any appearance of an undulating membrane, Rogers denies that the organism is a trypanosome, while the presence of a flagellum separates it from the piroplasma. He looks on it as allied to the hepatomonas. An essential factor for successful cultivation outside the body is that the temperature be low. The optimum is from 20° to 22° C. ; above 25° C. there is no marked development. Bacterial contamination is fatal to its growth. Uiider anaerobic conditions, though the organism does not die, its development does not occur. Rogers found that development was much favoured by rendering the blood slightly acid by citric acid, and from this hint he was led to suspect the l)ed bug (the tissue juices of which are also faintly acid) as a carrier of infection. In 1906 Dr. Patton detected the parasite in the stomachs of bugs which had fed on kala-azar patients, but not in mosquitoes ; he subsequently traced their development in the bug up to the flagellar stage. Leishman's discovery of the new pathogenic organism has not only placed the pathology of kala-azar on a sound basis, but has done a great deal towards clearing up the nature of the chronic fevers of Bengal. Since the Leishman- Donovan bodies have become known, cases of the disease have been reported in districts of India where kala-azar is not epidemic, as well as from Penang, Hankow, Tunis, the Egyptian Soudan, and Manila. The distribution of the disease is thus far wider than has hitherto been supposed. The parasite can only be demonstrated in the blood after prolonged search, especially towards the commencement of the disease. It is much more readily found in smears of fluid withdi'awn by splenic puncture, but this proceeding is not free from risk, and Rogers condemns it in patients who are markedly anajmic, or who have recently suff"ered from any kind of hsemorrhage. Apart from the detection of the parasite, however, the ex- amination of the blood is of diagnostic import- ance, for in kala-azar leucopenia is a striking symptom. The leucocytes may fall to 1000 or even 500 per c.mm., and so low a count as this is almost diagnostic. Unfortunately the treatment of the disease