SURGERY, ASEPSIS IN 353 Silk is another material which is not absorbable, but it is useful under certain circumstances (e.g. for tying pedicles). It can be obtained of any thickness, and it is best prepared by boiling (wrapped up loosely in gauze) in water foi- twenty minutes, by being then placed in rectified spirit for fifteen minutes, and then wound upon reels ; it is to be again boiled in water for ten minutes and placed ready for use in absolute alcohol. It can be obtained ready in closed glass tubes; and considerable ingenuity has been shown in devising suture and ligature containers (glass tubes, boxes, etc.) in which the silk (or catgut) can be placed on reels, and from which lengths of the material can be taken off (through screw caps, etc.) without inter- fering with the aseptic condition of what remains. The disadvantages of being fibrous and of absorbing secretions by capillary action which silk has, may be got over to some extent by using Japanese silk or what is known as Turner's flat silk. On the whole, however, silk is not only apt to become infected, but may also carry the infection to another part of the wound. Kangaroo tendon has special advantages as a buried suture, for it is absorbable, and it is stronger than catgut, but it has the disadvan- tages (possessed also by catgut) of being acted on by very hot water and of being somewhat difficult to sterilise; it is also expensive. The tendon is taken from the tail of the small kangaroo, is dried in the sun and kept dry till it is sterilised ; it is softened in corrosive sublimate solution (1 in 1000); then the selected tendons are soaked in formalin solu- tion (2 per cent.); it is next chromicised and preserved in sterilised carbolic oil; and just before use the carbolic acid is removed by soaking for half an hour in warm corrosive sublimate solution. Catgut is a most useful suture material, but its sterilisation is full of difficulty, and the ease with which it is absorbed have led to the presence in the market of different varieties, e.g. Lord Lister's chromic catgut {Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1908, p. 125), Scott Riddell's iodised catgut, Johnson's bichromate catgut, etc. Some operators sterilise the catgut them- selves which they are going to use, or get someone personally known to them to do so. The great difficulty is to preserve the strength and pliability of the catgut and at the same time to ensure its absolute sterility. It should also be prepared in such a way as to be easily carried from operation to operation. Dry heat may be used to sterilise the catgut; thus it may be put in a dry-air steriliser, heated slowly to 150° C, and kept at that heat for two hours. Or dry heat may be combined with the kumol treatment as recommended by Kronig ; the gut, arranged loosely in rolls, is during two hours heated slowly up to 85° C. in dry air; it is then dried and placed in a vessel containing enough kumol to cover it, which is heated (over a sand-bath) to 165° C, and retained at that temperature for an hour; the kumol is then poured off, and the catgut dried by evaporation over the sand-bath but without the flame for another hour; rolls of the gut are then put in sterile tubes ready for use. Care must be taken that the kumol, which is inflammable, do not catch fire. This is the method used for sterilising catgut in the Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore. Some operators prefer to have catgut sterilised by chemical means ; one such method is to soak it first in ether for twenty-four hours, then in a 1 per cent, solution of biniodide of mercury in methylated spirit for twenty-four hours, and in this solu- tion renewed for forty-eight hours longer; it is then put ready for use in a 2| per cent, solution of carbolic acid in methylated spirit. If it be desired that the catgut resist absorp- tion for more than ten days, it is well to soak it in formalin or to chromicise it. A. E. Johnson {Lancet, i. for 1907, p. 1074) places bichromate catgut in glass tubes containing xylol or xylol and absolute alcohol, seals the ends with the Bunsen flame or the blowpipe; he then puts the closed tubes upright in water at 212° F. for at least half an hour. At the operation the tubes must be broken between pieces of sterilised lint at the point which has been weakened by being filed. Sponges, Swabs, and Dressings. — Whilst sponges are much less used than formerly on account of the fact that they cannot be steril- ised by heat, there are still surgeons, some of them men of note, who employ them. As they cannot be steamed or boiled in water, some operators first soak their sponges in formalde- hyde solution (40 per cent.), and then boil them for a few minutes in water; but Treves and Hutchinson {op. cit. p. 61) find the following method satisfactory. The sponges (new ones) are first beaten and shaken in calico bags to loosen and remove the particles of sand ; they are then soaked for twenty-four hours in warm water, and are frequently rinsed out; they are next placed in glass bottles containing ethylic alcohol in which pure carbolic acid (1 to 20 of the spirit) is dissolved; and, when needed, they are wrung out and soaked in warm steril- ised water. While in the ethylic alcohol they shrink greatly, but in the warm water they regain their original size. It is claimed that they may be used over and over again. Another method of preparing sponges is (after they have been mechanically treated and washed to get rid of all sand) to soak them first in a saturated solution of permanganate of potash, and second, in a saturated solution of oxalic acid ; then they are rinsed in sterile water, and finally they are placed in corrosive sublimate solution (1 in 1000) for twenty-four hours; they can be kept 23