HEART, SURGERY OF 182 are the irritation or inflammation excited by the gauze or tube, and the bad effects on the collapsed lung of keeping the pleura open. The results of Vaughan's collected series may be tabulated thus:— Cases. Recoveries. Percent- age. Pericardium drained . 48 25 52 not „ 44 25 57 Pleura drained 72 30 41 not ,, 21 13 60 Pericardium and pleura drained 42 21 50 The mortality over all is about 65 per cent. ; about 20 per cent, of the patients are really moi'ibund when operated on. The mortality rate is slightly lower after gunshot wounds than after stabs. Lenormaut's statistics lead to the same conclusion—46 per cent, of recoveries from bullet wounds, and 34 per cent, from stabs. The site of the wound is mentioned in 124 cases quoted by Lenormant:—Left ventricle 58; right ventricle, 49 ; apex, 5 ; interven- tricular septum, 3 ; left coronary artery, 1 ; origin of the pulmonary artery, 1 ; wounds of the left ventricle gave 45 per cent, of recoveries, of the right, 28-5 per cent. The majority of bullet wounds completely traverse the heart; in one instance an intracardiac bullet was re- moved, and the patient recovered. Lenormant's figures are also absolutely against drainage, and he urges the need of the stringent antiseptic precautions. Hill concludes a description of three successful cases by the following rules :— 1. Every wound of the heart .should be operated on immediately ; operation has reduced the mortality of the injury from 90 to 60 per cent. 2. When position of the external wound and the symptoms suggest heart injuiy, the wound should be explored. 3. Never prol)e the wound. 4. Unless the patient is unconscious, give an anaesthetic. 5. The flap method gives free access. 6. Steady the heart with the hand before suture, or if the hole is large enough, introduce the little finger, which will stop bleeding and facilitate the passage of the stitches. 7. When the haemorrhage is so profuse as to preclude suturing, with the right hand gently lift the heart out of the pericardium and introduce the left hand from below, and compress the inferior vena cava between the index and the fingers, and, pressing up, displace the inosculation of the superior cava. The heart will stand complete compression for a minute and a-half, and incomplete compression for four minutes. 8. Catgut should be used, as the wounds heal quickly. Sutures should be interrupted, introduced and tied during diastole, should not involve the endocardium, and should be as few as possible compatible with closure of the wound. 9. The pericardium should be cleansed by sponging, not by irriga- tion, lest tension be produced in it. 10. Until every aseptic precaution has been taken, the mechanical stoppage of the heart from ac- cumulation of blood in the pericardium should be prevented by aspiration, as diminished resistance from want of blood and want of cleanliness, from huriy of preparation largely contribute to the 40 per cent, of deaths due to infection. 11. The pleura may be closed and the pericardium drained—never the reverse, because of the ease of infection of the pleura. Tubes are better than gauze as drains. 12. A needle may be removed at once ; a knife blade, not until all preparations for suture are made. Massage of the Heart in Chloroform Syncope. —This has occasionally been practised with success. The heart has been reached through the thoracic parietes, and from the abdominal cavity. In the latter case the diaphragm has been divided by some operators, whilst others have massaged the heart through the diaphragm. Lenormant [Revue de Chirurgie, Mar. 1906) prefers this method—the diaphragm being relaxed during syncope offers no resistance to the manipulation. In three-fourths of the successful cases this route has been followed. The technique of the manoeuvre consists in compressing the heart rhythmically from 30 to 60 times per miiuite. At the time of Lenormant's paper four out of twenty-five cases in which massage of the heart had been practised, recovered, and four others were restored for a time. In the remainder the heart did not respond. Details of the thoracic and trans- diaphragmatic operations may be found in a paper by Manclaire and Zelas (Archives Inter- nationales de Chirurgie, 1906, No. 1), but as these are unsuccessful, they should be given up in favour of the sub-diaphragmatic method— after supra-umbilical medium laparotomy the left lobe of the liver is pushed aside by the right hand, by which the central part of the diaphragm is grasped. The left hand is placed on the anterior wall of the thorax, and the heart compressed between them. This method has at its credit six successes, two temporary successes, and two failures. The thoracic route has one success, five temporary successes, and seven failures. The trans-diaphragmatic route has four failures, and no successes. Hebephrenia.—See Dementia Pre- cox. Hebosteotomy.—<See Symphysiotomy AND PUBIOTOMY. Hebra's Prurigo.—A symptom-group of cutaneous changes beginning in infancy and contiiuiing usually throughout life, character- ised by sub-epidermic papules, more or less constant itching, with resultant lesions affecting chiefly the lower limbs. See Encyclopedia