10 ABOETION Frequency.—Since the beginning of the twentieth century there have been indications that abortions were occurring with greater frequency, at any rate among the civilised nations of the West. Indeed, this rise in the abortion-rate has formed one of the most dis- quieting features in the alarming phenomenon of race-suicide ; and, taken in association with the falling birth-rate, threatens the supremacy of the present world-powers in the near future. The fact that it is impossible to get exact statistics of abortions (for there is no system of registration of miscarriages, and it is difficult to see how any such system could be devised and applied) hardly lessens the dismay with which one must regard the wastage of antenatal life which is taking place ; the unknown is terrible to us. But, while thei'e are no statistics e7i masse upon this subject, there have been indications which must be regarded as significant. J. M. Doleris (Ann. de gynec. et d'obsiei., Paris, 2 s. ii. pp. 206-224, 1905), for instance, has shown that in his own hospital (Maternite de I'hopital Boucicaut) there was a marked increase in the number of abortions ; in 1898 there were 43 abortions and 457 full-time labours, while in 1904 the number of abortions had increased to 130 and the full-time labours were only 497. Further, in 1898 there were 45 premature labours, and in 1904, 102. The abortions had trebled, the premature labours had more than doubled, and the full-time labours had shown only a slight increase. But Doleris discovered other facts still more disquieting. There was evidence obtained from more than 50 per cent, of the patients that the abortion had been artificially provoked, and in some cases a catheter, by means of which fluid could be injected into the uterus to induce the mis- carriage, was got. These instruments, it may be remarked parenthetically, were known and asked for as "canules anglaises;" and the herbalist who sold them stated to Doleris's agent that her fee for instruction in the mode of using them was 25 francs. Whilst none of the facts elicited by Doleris were new—for such methods of inducing abortion have long been known and practised—the novelty consisted in the fi'eedom and openness with which their employment was carried out. The physician of the hopital Boucicaut carried his research still further, and obtained statistics of abortions from ten other institutions (Port-Royal, Baudelocque, Tarnier, Hotel-Dieu, Pitie, Charite, Lariboisifere, etc.) for the same term of years (1898-1904) as in his own Maternity. The figures for some years and in some cases were incomplete ; but even if this incompleteness be admitted, they nevertheless showed an alarming percentage increase in the number of miscarriages in most of the hospitals named. The increase was least marked in the hospitals which did not, on account of rules, small number of beds, etc., admit miscarriages freely, while in five hospitals (Tenon, Beaujon, Lariboisiere, Saint-Antoine, and Boucicaut) it was most pronounced. The percentage in the Tenon and Saint-Antoine had trebled in the seven years (from 5 per cent, to 15 per cent., and from 6 per cent, to 18 per cent.),ithad more than doubled in the Maternite de Boucicaut (from 7-8 per cent, to 17-7 per cent.), and it had nearly doubled for the Lariboisiere and the Beaujon. Adding to these hospitals the Charite, Doleris obtained the following figures :—in 1898 there were 376 abortions (5-6 per cent.), and in 1904, 1341 abortions (16 per cent.). Another disquieting fact was the increase in premature labours during the same period of seven years. To put the matter very plainly, the abortions and premature labours had steadily and largely increased, whilst the full-time labours had remained stationary, had increased only slightly, or had actually decreased. Doleris is inclined to give to Neo-Mal- thusianism a large place in the etiology of these cases of abortion. In the public mind the difference between using means to prevent the occurrence of pregnancy and to bring about the early termination of an existing gestation has been obscured, while the desire to limit families to two children or to have none at all has been inflamed by the teaching and advice given in certain books and pamphlets and at certain public conferences. A slide shown on the lantern screen to an audience of five or six hundred people not far from the Boucicaut Hospital is reproduced ; it gave in tabular form the means of preventing conception, and named them physiological (removal of ovaries, modifica- tion of uterine endometrium, extra-genital emission of semen); mechanical (use of con- doms, sponges de Chypre, absorbent wool, pessaries); and chemical (douches, etc.). On this and on similar public lectures and con- ferences Doleris makes this scathing reflection, " La science, et quelle science ! a-t-elle jamais ete mise au service de pires idees 1" The prevailing gloom of Doleris's article is lightened only in one direction, and that is found in the suggestion that a knowledge of the risks of induced abortion has sent more patients into hospital to receive the antiseptic treatment there obtainable, and so to get a maximum degree of security. It is cold comfort surely. It is not from France alone that evidence is forthcoming of the increasing frequency of abortion. In 1904 L. Lewin (Berlin) published a work of 383 pages, entitled Die FruchtaUreibung durch Gifte und andere Mittel, and in it he ex- pressed his conviction that there was going on a rapid increase in the criminal production of abortion in all countries. He pointed out that the prevention of conception was an act which carried with it no legal punishment, and that the means of securing such immunity from