360 SYPHILIS existence of a nucleus is doubtful. The peri- pheral part is thinned out at each end to form a delicate flagellum. Fission takes place by longitudinal division, beginning with the for- mation of two ilagellse at one pole. The spiro- chaete is capable of backward or forward motion by corkscrew-like rotation round its longi- tudinal axis ; in addition to this undulations course along its whole structure ; lashing movements also occur. Mobility is retained for several hours in salt solution, but is lost in glycerine; the organism rapidly dies when deprived of moisture. S. refringens is a larger organism than s. pallida, and is distinctly re- fractile. It may have a marked corkscrew shape and motion when alive, but when dried in films flattens out so as to show a wavy out- line. The curves are flatter and longer than those of s. pallida, measuring from 1'5 to 2 jU, or more. It varies in length, being most com- monly from 8 to 10 ^. It possesses a vibratory membrane but no flagellse. Detection of Sjnrochcete Pallida.—The oi'gan- ism should be sought for in the deeper parts of lesions. The surface of a hard chancre should be thoroughly cleansed with soap and water, gently scraped, and then, from the fluid which exudes, smears made. The object of this is to avoid surface contamination with s. refringens. Another plan is to apply a vesicant to the skin and examine the serum ; another, to puncture a bubo and remove some of the gland juice, as in searching for trypanosomes. Roseolar erup- tions may also be scraped and punctured, or blood withdrawn from a vein (1 c.c. at least), diluted with ten volumes of '3 per cent, acetic acid, and centrifuged. The tissue juices from cases of hereditary syphilis may swarm with spirochsetes. Spirochsetes are visible in fresh preparations ; they do not stain deeply ; they are more difficult to recognise in sections than in film preparations. For examining fresh preparations incandes- cent gas is better than day or electric light (Metchnikoff"). The ultra - microscope (dark ground illumination) shows the organism readily. For staining films Giemsa's stain (Griibler & Co.) is generally employed ; modi- fications of Pitfield's flagellar' stain give good results. For sections von Ermenghem's method is used. Sections are placed for twentj^-four to forty-eight hours in 2 to "5 per cent, nitrate of silver solution, rapidly washed in distilled water, and immersed for a quarter of an hour in gallic acid 5 grams, tannin 3 grams, sodium acetate 10 grams, distilled water 350 c.c, until they are tinged yellow. They are then replaced in the silver solution until they turn brown, and are washed and mounted as usual. In staining films with Giemsa, the air-dried film is fixed in absolute alcohol for from ten minutes to one hour, and immersed for twenty- four hours in diluted stain—15 drops to 10 c.c. distilled water. Spirochsetes are stained pale violet; nuclei, deep red. Shennan gives the following "axioms":— 1. Saprophytic spirochsetes are always present on ulcerated lesions, on moist papules, and on mucous plaques. 2. The more thorough the previous cleansing the fewer of these are seen. 3. Spirochsete pallida may be somewhat deeply in the lesion, and apparently in clumps; on account of this six or eight films must be made. 4. A little blood on the film is an advantage in focussing, and, moreover, spiro- chaetes are often seen in apparent relationship to red blood corpuscles. 5. In the case of excised chancres and papules s. pallida is not demonstrable after from six to ten hours. 6. Films should be thin and fixed as soon as possible. 7. With Giemsa's method nuclei of leucocytes should be deep purple, almost black, otherwise the spirochsetes will not be seen. 8. Decolourisers (alcohol or weak acetic acid) rapidly discharge the stain from s. pallida, except where the mordanting (flagella) methods are used. Biology.—The exact position of the spiro- chsete is still uncertain. Schaudinn, whose researches were cut short by his untimely death, inclined to the view that it was a trypanosorae, and certain analogies between trypanosomiasis and syphilis exist; the matter, however, is uncertain. Schaudinn rechristened the organism "spironema" and then " trepo- nema " pallidum, but probably it will continue to be known generally as the spirochsete pallida until its exact relationship is ascertained. In the body the spirochsete enters the vessels and lymphatics and is found in the blood stream. Its chief predilection is for the walls of the lymphatics, whence it enters the inter- cellular and interfibrillary spaces of the tissues. It is found especially in connection with mono- nuclear infiltrations, and Metchnikoff believes that it exercises a chemotactic influence on these cells. It undergoes phagocytosis at their hands, and perhaps by the glandular and epithelial cells also. Nothing more is known as to its life history. It has not been culti- vated outside the body. It seems more than probable, almost certain, that s. pallida is the true cause of syphilis. Its almost constant presence in syphilitic, and its absence from non-syphilitic, lesions; its presence in experimental syphilis in apes ; its abundance in the viscera in congenital syphilis —seem to exclude its being a saprophyte. The facts that the organisms disappear under efficient treatment; that, like the virus, they succumb to drying; that they are absent from fluids which are non-infectious {e.g. cerebro- spinal fluid), and present in those which are (saliva), point in the same direction. Serum Diagnosis of Syphilis. — The original Wassermann test is described under