CEREBRO-SPINAL MENINGITIS, EPIDEMIC 99 is repeated in twelve or twenty-four hours if the temperature does not fall and the symptoms abate. In mild cases the dose is 15-20 c.c. In twenty-four hours the meningococci in the ■cerebro-spinal fluid are reduced in number and stain badly; the polynuclear cells also diminish. The temperature falls, and the symptoms rapidly improve in favourable cases. Very good results have been obtained with Flexner's serum by those who have been so fortunate as to have it placed at their disposal. Holt gives the follow- ing statistics of 442 collected cases treated:— The general mortality of the disease is 50 to 80 per cent.; in the series of cases treated by Flexner's serum it was 33 per cent. Elimi- nating patients who were moribund when the serum was first injected, the mortality was 25 per cent. In patients injected on the first day the mortality was only 14'9 per cent.; from fourth to seventh day, 22 per cent.; after seventh •day, 36 per cent. The mortality among un- treated patients under two is 90 per cent., of serum-treated, 46 per cent. The average dura- tion of symptoms in serum-treated cases is eleven days; a quarter of the cases end by crisis, three- quarters by lysis. In 5 per cent, of cases re- lapses occur; these are usually recovered from. Relapse is most likely to occur if the tempera- ture has not reached normal after the injection ■of serum, hence persistence of the fever shows that more serum is required. Dr. C. B. Ker ■aAso speaks favourably of the results of using Flexner's serum. Ruppell's serum (Meister, Lucius, and Briin- ing) is an anti-bacterial serum prepared from several strains of meningococcus of high patho- genicity. Iiitra-peritoneal injections of 1 c.c. of a fluid culture in dilution of 1:200,000,000 is lethal to rabbits. It appears to do good in some ■cases, and ought to be tried. Poynton and Fowler have reported cures in cases of posterior basic meningitis with Ruppell's serum. Of other serums, Kolle's is perhaps the best known. Vaccines have been tried by Dingwall Fordyce .and Hector Mackenzie; their utility is doubtful. The serum treatment of meningitis appears to promise much. Flexner's serum seems to be the most efficient; next to it probably Ruppell's. Whichever be used, it should be injected into the spinal canal. Subcutaneous injections are useless, as indeed might be expected considering that the agglutinative and opsonic power of the blood is already high in cerebro-spinal fever. LITERATURE. — Houston and Rankin, Lancet, 4th May 1907; Brit. Med. Journ., 16th Nov. 1907.— LiNGELSHEiM, KLinisches Jahrbuch, xix. Heft 4, 1908. —John Thomson and Stuakt M'Donald, Scott. Med. and Surg. Journ., Mar. 1907.—Symmebs and WiLSON, Brit. Med. Journ., 22nd June 1907.—Rotoh, Trans. Assoc. Amer. Physn., 1907.—Symmers, Holt, Kolle, W. T. Ritchie, Ker, Batten, and Others (Discussion), Brit. Med. Journ. 31st Oct. 1908.—Fowler, Rev. New. and Psychiatry, April 1907 ; Jan. 1909.—Comrib and Phaser, Trans. Edin. Med.-Chir. Soc, xxi. p. 230, 1906-7. —Jehle, Wein. klin. Wockensch., No. 25, 1906 ; Miinch. med. Wochensch., No. 29, 1906.—Gokdon, Report to L. G. B. on Meningococcus and its Identification, 1907.— Dingwall Fordyce, Internat. Clinics, vol. i. ser. 18, 1908.—Hector Mackenzie, Brit. Med. Journ., 15th June 1907.—Ruppell, Deutsche med. Wochensch., 23rd Aug. 1906. Cervical Ribs.—Although cervical ribs have long been known as anatomical curiosities, the fact that in some cases they give rise to definite symptoms has escaped recognition until within the past year or two. Their morphology was fully described by Sir William Turner in 1870. More or less developed ribs are not infrequently met with in connection with the seventh cervical vertebra, and in rare instances the sixth cervical also carries ribs. The abnor- mality is usually bilateral. Cervical ribs may be quite rudimentary—mere elongations of the transverse process; they may be longer, fusing by their extremities with the first dorsal rib; they may form complete ribs, articulating anteriorly with the sternum. A cervical rib is sometimes long, thin, and pointed ; sometimes broad and flat, like the first dorsal rib. Its direction, as well as its size, is important. If it runs directly outwards, it may give rise to considerable deformity in the neck, whereas if it curves round towards the sternum it will come into relation with the subclavian artery. If the rib be short, the subclavian artery and brachial plexus lie in front of it; if it be longer and curved it has a groove in its upper surface, and in this groove the artery lies. The artery is thus lengthened, and is rendered unduly prominent in the neck ; the vein, lying below and in front of the artery, is less liable to be lifted into the neck. The brachial plexus, lying behind the artery, always crosses the rib if the artery does so ; its lowest cord is most likely to suffer. Symptoms.—Apart from the deformity in the neck which may exist, the symptoms which are caused by cervical ribs are due to pressure on the vessels and nerves. Pressure symptoms are not found in every case of cervical ribs; it is estimated that they occur in from 5 to 10 per cent, of all cases. Thorburn, to whom much of our knowledge of the symptomatology of the condition is due, found that thirteen out of seventeen patients showed symptoms, but points out that this is obviously an excessive proportion, because it was generally only the existence of the symptoms which lead to a diagnosis being arrived at. The symptoms are not, as might be supposed, congenital, although the malformation is. They develop gradually, their evolution depending on the progressive growth and rigidity of the ribs. The period of greatest growth is from the fifteenth to the twenty-fifth year, and in most cases symj^toms do not manifest themselves until after the fifteenth year, though the onset may be delayed