108 CRANIO-CLEIDO-DYSOSTOSIS rule a large part of the vertex of the cranium remains membranous in infancy; there the anterior and posterior fontanelles unite with the wide sagittal and the open metopic sutures to form a lai-ge area of membrane ; further, the absence of the interparietal portion of the occipital bone greatly increases this area pos- teriorly. As age advances bone gradually develops, although, in some cases, the anterior fontanelle never properly closes : and in time certain parts of bone appear in an exaggerated form, as is seen in the presence of six bosses on the vertex corresponding to the frontals, the parietals, and the two sides of the interparietal occipital bone. Between the three bosses on the one side and the three on the other there is a deep median groove. When these cranial anomalies are found the face bones are also discovered to he deformed. The face itself is small, and the supra-orbital ridges are promi- nent, and stand out in marked contrast with the stunted bones which close in the orbit below. Through depression of the roof of the orbit a certain degree of exophthalmos may be noted. On account of defective growth of the superior maxillfe the palate is high-vaulted, and dentition is irregular. The nasal bones are short and irregular. The muscles may be remarkably little affected ; but some defects can generally he made out if a careful examination is made. The subclavius, for instance, would seem to be often wanting. If the sternal end of the clavicle is well represented the sterno-mastoid muscle may be normal, but if that particular part of the bone be rudimentary, the corresponding part of the muscle will be reduced to a thin band ; the same statement applies to the clavicular head of the pectoralis major, and the part of the trapezius passing to the clavicle may also be wanting. The clinical features, curiously enough, may be very slight. Ordinary movements are generally not interfered with, and many in- dividuals suffering from this dysostosis have been able for strenuous muscular exercise. Certain unusual movements and positions of the arms and shoulder-girdle are made possible, and the bisacromial diameter of the shoulders can be reduced in a way and to a degree similar to that seen in animals which have no clavicles. It is certainly remarkable that so distinct a deformity should cause so little disability (vide Schorstein, Lancet, i. for 1899, p. 10). The most striking fact as regards the etiology of this malformation or group of malformations is its hereditary tendency. In looking over the list of sixty cases collected by Fitzwilliams (loc. cit.) one cannot fail to be arrested by the frequency with which the entry occurs, "son (or daughter) of the preceding" ; from the time (1864) when Gegenbaur {Jenaische Ztschr. f. Med. u. Naturw. i. 1, 1864) described a woman who had thus clavicular defect, and who gave birth to similarly affected children, both by her first and second husbands, up to such recent cases as those of Villaret and, Francoz (1906), in which a mother and three children were all malformed, heredity forces itself upon our notice. Further, it may be transmitted by either parent, for in Carpenter's patients {Lancet, i. for 1899, p. 13) the de- formitjr Avas found in father, son, and daughter. From the comparatively small number of cases which are known little more can be said about its etiology, but the clavicular anomaly does not seem to have any sexual predilection. It is apt to be associated with deformities in other parts {e.g. spinal curvature, sternal anomalies, and genu valgum); and bad health or habits of the parents seem to occur in the histories with a greater frequency than is usual. The 'pathology and pathogenesis of cleido- cranial dysostosis are involved in obscurity. The bones affected are mainly, if not wholly, developed in membrane, and the malformation thus contrasts sharply with achondroplasia (which affects bones developed in cartilage); indeed, the facts have been turned round some- what, and it has been affirmed that since the sternal end of the clavicle is generally repre- sented in cranio-cleido-dysostosis, that portion of the bone must normally be developed in cartilage. It is possible that the causal agent may be tightness of the amnion of a local and temporary nature; but it is, perhaps, more common to think of some toxic agent, such as alcohol, syphilis, or tuberculosis, as influencing the nutrition of the developing skeleton. All the theories, however, which have been ad- vanced (including the Mendelian explanation of Berry Hart) leave many facts unexplained. Creches.—Day nurseries for the feeding and care of the children of women who have to go out daily to work for their living (Fr. creche, manger oi' crib). Creina.ltO.—A proprietary food prepara- tion, described as " a scientific combination of pure sterilised Devonshire cream," the analysis is given in the British Medical Journal, i. for 1910, p. 30. Crescendo Murmur.—The cardiac murmur heard sometimes in mitral stenosis, and characterised by gradually increasing loudness ending in a snap; it is regarded by some phy- sicians as systolic in time but by a greater number as presystolic. Cresylone.—A proprietary preparation similar to the Liquor Cresolis Compositus of the U.S. Pharmacopoeia. CuIicides.—Agents, chemical or other-