PROTOZOA 310 possession of an undulatory membrane. They exist as parasites in the fluids of the body, not in the cells. A typical trypanosome has a spindle-shaped body with a more or less centrally-placed macronncleus, and a micro- nucleus near one extremity. The body is furnished Avith an undulatory membrane, and a single flagella which originates near the micronucleus and runs along the edge of the undulatory membrane, from the extremity of which it is prolonged. The same general description applies to the trypanoplasma (which is parasitic in the blood of fishes), but the latter has in addition a second flagella, also arising near the micronucleus, but emerging directly from the body without being attached to the undulatory membrane. The trypano- somes are purely l)lood parasites of the vertebrata, V)ut have the power of passing into the lymph and other tissue fluids. Among pathogenic trypanosomes, T. Brucei, the cause of nagana or tsetse-fly disease of horses and cattle in Africa, T. equiperdum, the cause of dourine in horses, T. equina, the cause of mal de cadei'as in horses, and T. Evansi, the cause of surra in horses, may be mentioned. Far more important than these, however, is the T. yambiense, the parasite of sleeping sickness {q.v.) in man. A number of harmless parasitic trypanosomes are also known—e.g. T. Leivisi, in the rat. All species of trypanosome, except T. equi- perdum, have an intermediate invertebrate host. T. equiperdum is transmitted directly by coitus. In all cases studied the sexual cycle takes place in the invertebrate host. The general life cycle is as follows :—IndiflPerent, and sexually difl'erentiated male and female individuals can he recognised in the blood of the vertebrate host, but complete difterentiation takes place only in the invertebrate. All types may multiply hy simple fission. The females are the most resistant forms, and if by chance the males and the undifferentiated forms perish, parthenogenesis occurs and the host is repeopled. Zygosis is preceded by maturation of the nuclei. The zygote is a simple organism which develops micronucleus, flagella, and undulatory membrane and becomes an ordinary trypanosome which begins a new vegetative cycle. In one species, according to Schaudinn, an intracellular stage of development occurs. The trypanosoma noc- tuce, of the owl, the general cycle of which resembles the above, after entering the blood of the vertebrate host penetrates the blood corpuscles during the day, loses its power of locomotion, and changes into the parasite which has long been known as the HaHeridiwn Dani- leivskii (see Encycl. and Diet., Vol. VII. p. 341). During the night it escapes from the corpuscle, resumes its trypanosome shape, and is found chiefly in the internal organs. The entire cycle takes from six to eight days. Spirochcetes.—The genus spirochseta, often confused with the spirilla, are possibly allied to the trypanosomes, but great uncertainty exists as to their zoological position. A number of parasitic spirochtetes have been described— s. o-efringens, s. plicatalis, and, in particular, s. 'pallida, the causal agent of syphilis {q.v.). There is also a s. pertenosis (Castellani), believed to be the cause of yaws. The organism of relapsing fever (spirillum obermeieri) is now generally regarded as a spirochsete, and Dutton and Todd found a similar, though not identical organism (s. DuUo7ii) in the relapsing or tick fever of the Congo. In connection with the relation of the spirochetes to the trypanosomes it is of interest to refer to Mott's observations on the morbid anatomy of the nervous system in sleeping sickness and general paralysis. The lesions are identical; in the one case the disease is assuredly due to a trypanosome, in the other almost certainly due to a spiro- chajte. The spirochsetes are flexible spiral organisms with an undulatory membrane but no flagellffi. The s. pallida is described in the article Syphills. LfiisJnnan-Donovan Bodies.—These bodies, now recognised as the cause of kala-azar (q.v.), probably fall into the same group of organisms, though there is considerable doubt as to their exact position. They were originally regarded as a species of trypanosome, Donovan and Laveran thought they belonged to the group piroplasma, Koss regarded them as a new form of sporozoa, and Kogers states that the late Professor Schaudinn, shortly before his death, took them for a new species of flagellata, for which he proposed the name " Leishmania- Donovani." Rogers succeeded in cultivating them outside the body, and found that they underwent changes which led to the appearance of herpetomonas-like forms. In a recent com- munication {Lancet, 30th Jan. 1909) W. S. Patton states that they belong to the genus Herjjetomonas, the type of M'hich his H. viusccf doniesticce. His description of the life cycle of the parasite of kala-azar in the bed-bug closely resembles that of the fly herpetomonas. The cycle of H. muscte domestics consists of a pre- flagellar stage, in which the round or oval organisms multiply by fission or segmentation. Each organism so formed develops a flagella, becomes elongated, and divides longitudinally. After this the organisms become rounded and lose flagellfB (post-flagellar stage), and are shed in the excreta of the fly. They ai'e again sucked up by flies while feeding. The whole cycle occurs in the fly. Patton supposes that the parasite of kala-azar passes through its pre- flagellar stage in man, and completes its cycle in the bed-bug. He proposes to call the group of diseases produced by these organisms the Herpetomoniases — Herpetomonas Donovani causing kala-azar; H. infantum the parasite