54 BIER'S METHOD OF TREATMENT BY HYPEREMIA tion is best produced by the application of dry heat by means of hot air. Superheated dry air is the best means, because higher temperatures can be tolerated when it is used. Thus, for example. Bier mentions that he was able to hold his forearm in superheated dry air at a temperature of 105° C, whereas in hot water only a temperature of 44° C. could be borne. Passive Congestion by Means of the Rubber Bandage. — This method of treat- ment is found to give excellent results in many cases. As will be detailed later, it may be used in cases of acute suppuration, or where more chronic infection has occurred. The best material which can be used is a soft, thin, elastic rubber bandage. This may be obtained from any instrument-maker in rolls of varying width, from which pieces can be cut off as required. On the bandage being applied to a limb, it should be of a length that will enable it to go at least one-and-a-half times round its circumference. Before applying the bandage, the site of the disease is carefully inspected and cleansed, and a sterile dressing applied loosely over it. It is of importance that this latter point be carefully attended to, as the oedema which follows the application of the Imndage might otherwise cause the bandage covering the dressing to become too tightly applied when the limb is swollen. The situation in which the bandage should be applied varies with the different lesions being treated. It will be found, however, that the best results are obtained when the constric- tion is put on at some considerable distance from the site of disease. Thus, for example, in cases of severe whitlow, the constricting fillet should be applied around the lower part of the upper arm. Where the disease is situated in the region of the foot or ankle, the constric- tion can best be applied around the thigh. The method of application which is found to be most comfortable to the patient is that where a portion of soft flannel or boracic lint intervenes between the rubber bandage and the skin. When the boracic lint has been applied loosely round the part to be constricted, the rubber bandage is then rolled round the limb, which has been previously placed in the position in which it is afterwards to remain. The best method of fixing it is by the simple device of fixing the tail to the pre-\-ious turn l)y a piece of adhesive plaster. It is of very great importance that the proper degree of constriction should be procured, as on it entirely depends the success of the treat- ment. It is only by experience that a correct standard can be arrived at, but there are certain rules which should always be adhered to. The bandage should never be applied so tightly as to obliterate the pulse beyond. It should never cause the limb to become either pale, cold, or of a dark, cyanosed appearance. The most certain guide that can be given as to the proper degree of constriction is the effect it produces in relieving pain. The properly applied bandage should never cause pain, it should always lead to the relief of pain. When the bandage has been properly applied, the superficial veins ai'e seen to become slowly engorged. The limb will be found later to become swollen and some- what cedematous. In some cases, where an acute infection is being treated, the amount of swelling in pronounced, and may be accompanied by the presence of bnllce, the inflamed area being also wider than before treatment was commenced. When this is seen for the first time by one not familiar with the effects of this treatment, it may give rise to alarm, and the bandage be in consequence removed. There is, however, no occasion for doing this, for, as Bier pointed out in his original papers, such an appearance is indicative of successful, not unskilful treat- ment. When the patient is questioned as regards his sensations, he will often state, that in addi- tion to the relief of pain that the treatment has brought about, he feels a comfortable glow at the site of the disease. Length of Time during which the Band- age SHOULD BE Applied.—In cases where acute infection is being treated, it is to be advised that it be kept on for as long as twenty hours out of the twenty-four. It is not neces- sary that the patient be kept under oljservation during this time; a method that is often adopted is to apply the bandage about ten o'clock in the morning. When the inflammation is one involving an upper extremity, the patient may perfectly well be sent home. He is told to report himself to his medical attendant in the evening, about six o'clock, when the bandage is taken off, then reapplied. He is "then sent home with the instructions that he is to wear it during the night, and take it oft" about six o'clock in the morning. Should the bandage, however, feel uncomfortable and unduly tight, or should the part become more painful, he is instructed to remove it before this time. When the patient is seen on the following morning at ten o'clock, the bandage is again reapplied, and a similar line of treatment carried out as was previously adopted. As convalescence approaches, the interval during which the bandage is worn may l)e greatly shortened, until at length it is dis- pensed with entirely. The introduction of passive hypera^mia may arrest infection before it has gone on to suppura- tion, or even where suppuration has occurred, resorption may take place. It has been the experience of every surgeon who has practised this form of treatment that cases have come under his care where a commencing whitlow is diag- nosed. Before Bier's treatment was introduced, these would have been treated by prompt and free incision; by the use of Bier's treatment a