51 ATMOCAUSIS uterine interior should always be preceded by a careful bi-manual examination to detect traces of pelvic inflammation, and by dilatation of the cervical canal, either at the time by Hegar's bougies or overnight by a tent. A preliminary curettage may or may not be performed. The cervix is drawn down by volsellae, the length of the cavity measured with a sound, the interior washed out, and the vaginal walls and vulvar ring are protected from the heat by specula. The steam is made to pass through the tubing and cannula so as to warm the parts of the apparatus. The cannula is introduced into the uterus with the steam shut off; it is then turned on, and the steam is allowed to play on the surface of the cavity for ten, twenty, or thirty seconds (or longer in special cases) at a temperature of 212° to 239" F. (100° to 115° C.); and the tube is moved about in the uterus to bring the whole mucous membrane under the cauterising influence. The returning steam and water come away through the india- rubber tubing and do not scald the vagina of the patient or the hands of the operator. A small plug of iodoform gauze is placed in the cervical canal after the cannula has been with- drawn, and the vagina is loosely packed with gauze. The after-treatment is the same as for curettage, the patient being kept in bed for a week and getting vaginal douches till the dis- charge and shreds of sloughing tissue have all come away. It is probable that the heat of the steam when it is actually in contact with the vaginal mucous membrane is never above 212° F., and does not often reach that level, for some heat is lost in conveyance. Results of Atmocausis.—The results of uterine vaporisation have been found to differ in a rather surprising fashion. The ordinary result (and that which it is generally wished to obtain) is destruction, regular and uniform, of the superficial part of the uterine mucosa, followed by regeneration of the membrane in a normal condition. It must be admitted, how- ever, that the necrosis is not always uniform, that the new mucous membrane may sometimes be atrophic, and that, in rare instances, com- plete destruction of the lining membrane with consequent obliteration of the cavity of the organ has followed vaporisation. These diver- gent results cannot always be accounted for by differences in the temperature of the steam or in the length of time of its application. The more serious results may perhaps be due to excessive contraction of the uterus which causes the organ tightly to grasp the atmocautery, or by the latter becoming steam-hot and acting as a zestocautery. It may be added that oblitera- tion of the uterine cavity is, in a certain group of cases, the result which it is desired to obtain. Contra - Indications. — The contra-indica- tions to vaporisation of the uterus are, speak- ing generally, the same as to curettage; but special emphasis may perhaps be laid upon the presence of recent or old inflammatory changes in the pelvic peritoneum or cellular tissue or in the uterine annexa, for in such a case the risk of lighting up fresh inflammation is very con- siderable. It is also contra-indicated in puer- peral sepsis which has become general, and when the uterus contains submucous fibroids or malignant neoplasms, but it constitutes a valuable palliative means of treatment in in- operable cancer. It is not so suitable for young women as for those near the menopause or older than forty-five. The dangers arising from the use of the atmocautery are similar to those in curettage, viz. peri-uterine inflammation, per- foration of the uterus, an excessive degree of atrophy of the organ, and the production of abortion (in pregnant patients); but, in addi- tion, there are the special risks of causing obliteration of the uterine cavity (in the cases in which this end is not aimed at) and of lead- ing to stenosis or atresia of the cervix. There is also the danger of septic infection during the separation of the intra-uterine sloughs. Indications. — It is a somewhat difficult matter to define exactly the cases in which vaporisation should be employed; and gyne- cologists differ widely in the frequency with which they make use of it and in the kind of case which they regard as suitable. In British practice, however, it may be stated generally that the atmocautery is not thought of until curettage has failed; but if we cast our net wide, as some of the continental gynaecologists do, we may include the following morbid states :—(1) Endometritis, glandular, but more especially the interstitial variety, in which it may be hoped that the atmocausis will check the hemorrhage and ameliorate the dysmenor- rhoea (if present); (2) Climacteric and pre- climacteric haemorrhages for which there is no clearly defined cause such as myomata or malignant neoplasms ; (3) Haemophilia in women (a rare occurrence) when the disease shows itself in the form of uterine haemor- rhage ; (4) Interstitial fibro-myomata of the uterus, for the purpose of checking the bleed- ing, but such a result cannot be guaranteed; and (5) Systemic diseases, such as phthisis, contracted pelvis, and other morbid states in which pregnancy is to be feared, when atmo- causis is used to cause complete obliteration of the uterine cavity, and consequent sterility; but atmocausis is sometimes neither eff'ective nor safe in such cases as Meyer's report {loc. cit. supra) proves. Beyond these indications, there are others, such as puerperal sepsis in its early and localised stage, cancer of the cervix (as a palliative measure), subinvolution, and to cause closure of the cavity of the body of the uterus after amputation of the cervix {e.g. for cervical cancer); but evidence regarding the