PREGNANCY, PHYSIOLOGY OF 303 healthy and have a regular dietary. The least weakness of the organism may derange the process and lead to a loss ; and the disturbance may come from the side of the fcetus as well as from that of the mother. Consequently " fcetus sanus in matre sana" is the indispensable condition if we would see happy results follow- ing the gestational modifications of the nitro- genous nutrition of the individual. If this condition do not obtain, and if the maternal organism becomes supersaturated, so to say, with nitrogenous material in the first half of pregnancy, or if, on the other hand, too little nitrogen is retained, then pathological states {e.g. digestive troubles) may arise. Bar found, further, that the weight of urinary ammonia appeared to increase during preg- nancy, and the relation of the nitrogen of the ammonia to the total nitrogen was above the normal. These facts were due to the pregnant woman taking, by instinct, more food, and to a part of the nitrogen, which ought to have been excreted in the urine as urea, passing to the fcEtus instead. Primiparous patients excreted more uric acid than multiparous ones, the former excreting a little more than the normal and the latter a little less. In primiparas the relation of the uric acid to the urea and the relation of the nitrogen excreted in the form of uric acid to the total nitrogen were above the normal; these conditions were due to in- crease in the absolute weight of the uric acid and to a decrease of the urea and of the nitrogen. Passing to other chemical constituents of the organism. Bar found that the nvmaxyj^hosphorus diminished towards the end of pregnancy, and that the diminution was proportionate to the demands made by the foetus. On the other hand the utilisation in the intestine of phos- phorus-containing food was better during the second half of pregnancy than in the first (although it was very good in the first half also); thus the maternal organism was able to store up phosphorus. During pregnancy, there- fore, the mother found in her food the phos- phorus necessary for the development of the foetus; if she were furnished with sufficient food she did not require to break in upon her capital of phosphorus; and thus there was a harmonious symbiosis in respect to the phos- phorus as well as the nitrogen. At the same time Bar believed that the phosphorus equi- librium was, so to say, more precarious than the nitrogen one. With regard to lime, it was shown that the pregnant woman's food was generally too poor in that substance to supply the needs of the foetus in the last two or three months, and that the mother, therefore, had to draw from her calcium reserve the greater part of the lime required by her unborn infant. In normal circumstances the loss was not marked ; but occasionally the decalcification of pregnancy was prominent and showed itself in the presence of an excess of bases in the blood and in the formation of osteophytes, the occurrence of pain- ful laxity of the joints, and even in osteomalacia. An interesting illustration of these morbid re- sults of gestational decalcification has been given by Marquis {Uobstetrique, n. s. i. p. 275, 1908), who found pain in and mobility of the bones of the symphysis pubis, pain on pressure over the iliac crests, etc., in a primipara, 27 years of age, who was exci-eting A of the lime taken in the food through the faeces; at the eighth month of her pregnancy she was put on a diet rich in lime with the result that the difficulty in locomotion, the progressive loss of strength, etc., were arrested. The patient's blood, in this case, showed nearly double the amount of lime in circulation as compared with a pregnant patient who had no signs of decalcification. The bearing of these observations on the cause and significance of the calcareous placenta is not very evident, for Merletti {Ann. di ostet. e ginec, xxx. p. 577, 1908) found that this abnormality of the afterbirth was met with in healthy as well as in diseased mothers and with foetuses of normal, of excessive, or of deficient development. Merletti, however, observed that, on the whole, the calcareous placenta was most often met with in post- mature labours, and it is possible, therefore, that the lime passing from the mother's reserves to the fcetus, being no longer needed by the infant, was deposited in the placenta. To return to Bar's work. The foetal demand for iron was great throughout pregnancy but was especially marked in the third trimester. This supply of iron was got directly from the mother's Ijlood. The pregnant woman made provision for this call upon her iron reserves perhaps by obtaining more iron from her food and certainly by increased activity of the hsematopoietic organs which had as its result the passage of the iron in reserve into an active form. There was always a risk that this process might overstep normal bounds ; then the liver excreted more iron-containing pigments, the faeces contained more iron than was usual, the blood contained moi'c of the iron pigments, and there was a tendency to jaundice. The sulphur interchanges were associated with the iron ones. Generally the mother was able to supply the wants of her foetus by obtaining more sulphur from her food and by utilising more thoroughly what she absorbed ; but this was not always so, and then the amount of sulphur in the faeces and urine increased. A pathological cycle of events was met with : there was first the foetal demand for iron, followed by excessive hajmatolysis and its results, polycholia, the simultaneous loss of iron and sulphur by the intestine, and finally cholaemia.