277 NERVES, SURGERY OF shortening. Suture needles should be round without cutting edges, and the stitches should be of linen, silk, kangaroo tendon, or slowly absorbable catgut, and must not pass through the substance of the nerve. If the ends cannot be approximated by slight traction, a flap suture may be used (Fig. 5). Other de\'ices to com- pensate for gaps between the ends of nerves are the insertion of grafts—nerves and spinal cords from animals, or from neighbouring healthy nerves, foreign bodies to act as conductors— rabbits' aorta, strands of catgut. Another plan is to resect bone, so as to shorten the limb, and allow the nerve ends to come together. To prevent the invasion of connective tissue various forms of protectors have been used— decalcified bone tubes, magnesium tubes, formalin hardened gelatine tubes, thin sheets of a mixture of paraffin and sesame oil, layers of fascia, etc., from adjacent tissues, the membrane lining the inner surface of an eggshell. Badenheuer [Deuts. Zeitschrift f. ChiTiirgie, 1908, xcv. 2-4) advises that the sutures should pierce the nerve itself. It is well to combine suture with transplantation of tendons, shorten- ing of the paralysed muscles by suture, and division of sound muscles and tendons. Nerve Anastomosis for the Cure of Facial Paralysis.—The spinal accessory has mostly been used ; less frequently the hypoglossal or glossopliaryngeal. The hypoglossal is preferred on account of its larger trunk; because if union is perfect, associated movements are not noticed if the mouth is kept closed: because of the ■vicinity of the cortical centres for the facial and hypoglossal; and because the fibres of the facial which close the mouth may originate in the hypoglossal nucleus. The reason for using the spinal accessory is that it is a less important nerve ; for using the glossopharyngeal, that its motor nucleus is near that of the facial. Anastomosis may be end-to-end (in the case of the spinal accessory) or longitudinal. Nerve Anastomosis in the Cure of Periplieral Birth Paralysis.—It is doubtfiU whether the treatment of the ordinary brachial plexus paralysis (Erb's paralysis) by operation is justi- fiable, as the great majority of cases recover completely in the course of a few months or more. In cases in which there is no improve- ment at the end of a year the question of operation may be considered, but here we are met with the difficulty that in some of these severe cases the nerve roots are torn through in the intervertebral foramina, which will render it impossible to unite the diA ided ends. Murphy points out that in order to make a diagnosis of the point at which the nerves are injured, the movements of the diaphragm, as shown on the X-ray screen, should be considered. If it acts on the side of the paralysis, then the cords of the plexus must be di\-ided beyond the point at which the phrenic nerve is given off—i.e. out- side the foramina. So far as the ordinary obstetrical paralysis (Erb's form) is concerned, however, this would not prove of much value, for here the lesion is of the fifth and sixth roots, whereas the phrenic is given off by the third and fourth. The test would only be useful in total brachial plexus palsy. Nerve anastomosis B 1^ r is likely to prove more useful in brachial plexus paralysis following injury during life than in the group of obstetrical palsies. Brilliant as some of the results of nerve anastomosis have been, the operation has not proved uniformly successful. Failures have been reported by Warrington and Murray