CANCEE 88 else than aberrant trophoblast, should be the administration of the panci'eatic ferment. Von Leyden and Bergell have tried the effect of various ferments on malignant tumours. They found that the pancreatic ferment produced only a local non-selective reaction. They especially experimented with a ferment ob- tained from the liver, and found that this produced an increased reaction, which they claimed was selected for the cancerous tissue. Practical therapeutical application of the remedy, according to them, at present was unjustifiable. Bier, who has already used injection of blood as a treatment for non- union, or the delayed union of fractures, claims to have obtained benefit from injecting pig's blood into cancerous growths. When injected into a healthy individual, these substances produced an inflammatory reaction, but no destructive effect on the healthy tissue. When, on the other hand, it is injected into a cancei'ous mass, it produces, according to Bier, marked improvement by inducing a pro- nounced reaction, the pathological tissue being destroyed to a great extent, and a diy necrosis occurring in some cases. At the International Medical Congress at Buda-Pesth Dr. E. F. Bashford delivered an important addi'ess on cancer {Lancet, Sept. 4, 1909). The experimental studies of the Imperial Cancer Research Laboratories have been co-ordinated from their inception in 1902 with the study of the natural incidence of cancer in all races and throughout the vertebrate kingdom. From the facts gathei'cd together it is not unreasonable to suppose that the general incidence is similar to that in England. For two years it looked as though the experimental study of cancer would break down on account of the impossibilitj'' of repro- ducing the lesions experimentally, but now, by a suitable technique, the natural process can be produced artificially — local infiltration, systemic dissemination, terminal cachexia. The experimental transference of cancer is not an infection, but a true transplantation of living cells. Statistical Aspects of the Cancer Pro- blem.—The investigations of the Imperial Cancer Research have settled once and for all that cancer is a disease common to man- kind throughout the world and to vertebrates. The primary lesions closely resemble one another even in animals so remote as man and the fish. Another common and more striking feature is its age-incidence. It is peculiarly associated with special periods of the life of man, and the same holds good for all verte- brates. Bashford gives a curve plotted from 10,598 cases, showing a rise in frequency up to the .50-55 quinquennium in males and the 45-50 quinquennium in females, and thereafter a fall. A demonstration of the validity of the law for mice is given in the following table :— 21 to 2i e to 9 9 to 12 12 to 15 15 to 18 18 to 21 montlis months, months, months, months, months, and over. Total . 13.5 110 94 21 6 — Cancer .3 4 7 3-2 — Per cent. 2-2 3-5 7-4 14-2 33 — Since the less perfect data for other verte- brates accord with the facts for man and the mouse, the general application of the law is probable; therefore any explanation of the etiology of cancer must agree with the cir- cumstance that when considered statistically cancer is a function of age, and considered biologically a function of senescence. From these facts it follows that attention must be paid to the relative numbers of the popula- tion at different age periods in attempting to appraise the frequency of cancer. But the relative frequency of cancer overlaps the much- discussed question of its alleged increase. Savage races are unsuited for the study of these problems, and there is no doubt that as improvements in national statistics take place diff"erent countries become interested in questions of its real or apparent increase. The number of deaths assigned to cancer has increased from year to yeai' in practically all countries. If this is regarded as a merely national problem, the fact may be made to appear alarming, but when due regard is paid to (1) its universality ; (2) to the fact that when statistics were first compiled in Japan, India, and Egypt, the question at issue was whether cancer occurred at all or was a rarity, while the statistics showed that it was actually common and increased in frequency from year to year; (3) that number of deaths assigned to cancer increases pari passu with increased accui-acy of the vital statistics; (4) that part at least of the absolute increase of cases of cancer recorded can be referred with certainty to a larger number of individuals attaining the "cancer age"; (5) that as the disease is sought for much more carefully than ever before; there is no excuse whatever foi' talking of an " increase of cancer " so as to enhance the anxiety of the lay public. Sites of Predilection.—In males cancer of the abdominal viscera accounts for two-fifths of the total cases; among females the breast and genei'ative organs are affected in more than two-fifths, while a further two-fifths are contributed by the stomach, liver, and bowel taken together. The predilection for some sites rather than others in mankind may partly be accounted for hy exposure to chronic irri- tants, but endogenous factors must also exist, because in surveying the incidence of cancer in the vertebrate kingdom one is struck by the fact that certain forms preponderate in diflerent classes, e.g. cai'cinoma of the thyroid in trout.