71 BLOOD-PEESSUEE and an apparatus of this type is now regarded as giving the most reliable information on the arterial pressure. The Riva-Rocci sphygmo- manometer has been extensively employed, and numerous modifications of it exist. The armlet, which should measure 12 cm. in width, consists of a distensible bag capable of sur- rounding the arm, enclosed in a rigid leather or canvas outer case. It is connected with a pump and a mercurial manometer. Air is forced into it until the radial pulse stops; the air is then allowed to escape slowly, and the pressure noted at the time when the pulsation of the radial returns. Hill and Barnard have modified the appar- atus by improving the armlet and substituting a compressed-air or an aneroid for the mercurial manometer. In Janeway's instrument the manometer is jointed for convenience in car- riage, and in Erlanger's model a recording apparatus is included. 5. Oliver's Compressed Air ami Spirit Hcemo- manometer is a recent pattern, and its inventor claims for it advantages over both mercurial and aneroid foi'ms. Omitting minor details, the leading features of the instrument are—(I) a full-sized armlet, 12x16 cm.; (2) a com- pressor (pump), actuated by a rapid screw, which inflates the armlet steadily, not inter- mittently as the ordinary pump does; (3) the recorder, consisting merely of a glass tube, 8 or more inches long, having a capillary bore and a bulb at its upper end. The lower end is V-shaped, and forms a smaller bulb. The tube can be moved from the horizontal to the vertical position. Tinted absolute alcohol is used as an indicator. To use the instrument the recorder is placed in the horizontal position, the spirit reaching the zero mark. The tube of the armlet is connected with it, and air is pumped in. The pressure is estimated by the distance the spii'it is driven along the I'ecorder against the resistance of the contained column of air. 6. G. A. Gibson has introduced a recm-ding sphygmomanometer, giving absolute records of the arterial pressure. In Erlanger's instrument the pressure readings have to be written on the tracing by the obsei'ver, but in Gibson's apparatus the absolute pressure is recorded. The instrument is of the Eiva-Rocci type. On the mercury there is a float furnished with an aluminium rod, topped by a style writing on a revolving drum. Another style traces on the drum an abscissa, marking the zei'O point of the mercurial column. A tambour, connected with a writing lever, is strapped over the radial artery, and records the movements of the pulse on the drum. In using the instrument the armlet is inflated by steady strokes of the pump until a pressure of 160 mm. Hg or thereby is attained. If sufficient pressure has been employed, the pulsations of the artery below the armlet are checked, and the pen recording these remains stationary. The drum is then caused to revolve, and the air is allowed to escape slowly fi'om the armlet through a valve. The point of maximum (systolic) pres- sure is recorded by the fii'st appearance of small waves in the I'adial tracing. The mini- mum (diastolic) pressure is taken as the lowest point of the largest wave in the manometer trace. As thei'e is a double column of mercury in the V-tube of the manometer, the height of the tracing above the abscissa has to be doubled to give the absolute pressure. Measurements of Venous Pressure.— Oliver gives the following as a ready clinical method of estimating the venous pressure. The hand being held vertical, and below the apex beat, slowly raise it and note the height in inches above the apex beat at which the veins in the dorsum are seen to collapse. The number of inches multiplied by two gives appi'oximately the pressure in mm. Hg. Clinical Sphygmomanometry.—The maxi- mum {systolic) pressure is estimated by the pressure required to ol)literate the artery com- pletely. It can therefore be determined (a) by noting the pressui'e on the brachial artery which abolishes the pulse at the wrist; or (6) the radial pulse being abolished, by allowing the air to escape slowly from the armlet, and noting the point at which the pulse returns at the wrist. The mirdmum (diastolic) pressure is usually measured by noting the point at which the oscillations of the manometer attain the highest amplitude. According to Leonard Hill, this point of maximum oscillation i-epresents not the minimum, but the mean blood-pressure. Most clinicians, however, take the mean pressure to be midway between the minimum and maximum pressures, as defined above. Another method of determining the mininiTim pressure is by observing the point at which the volume of the radial pulse first becomes sensibly less. This may be done either by the finger or sphygmograph. The method is less reliable than the first mentioned. The normal maximum pressure in the brachial artery during rest is 110-130 mm. Hg, the mini- mum 95-100 mm. Hg. Oliver gives as a good average reading for an adult ^' ; read- , 9.5-145 S. "^g' 80-115 D. 95-100 D. ' are within normal limits In children they approximate to the lower, in persons over middle life to the higher, of these figures. In women the readings are from 5 to 10 per cent, less than in men. The difference between the maximum and minimum pressures is the pulse-amplitude ; it is from 10 to 40 mm. Hg, the average being about 25 mm. The mean pressure is taken as the arithmetical mean of the maximum and minimum pressures. The blood-pressure is raised l)y muscular