PATHOLOGY 38 ANTENATAL independent existence when removed from the intra-uterine economy, as occurs at the moment of birth ; by the help of the placenta the foetus can live on in utero with every one of its organs waterlogged and physiologically useless, but at birth conditions are altered, and the newborn infant is either stillborn or rapidly dies. There are some morbid states of the foetus, however, which have peculiarities not to be satisfactorily explained either by the environment, the mode of microbic invasion, or the predominance of the placenta; such are the bone diseases (achondroplasia, foetal rickets, etc.), some of the skin diseases (hypertrichosis congenita, tylosis palmse, etc.), and certain maladies of the bladder, heart, kidneys, and bile-ducts. In these curious pathological conditions we have to look elsewhere for an explanation of their characters; and Ballantyne finds it in the fact that all parts of the new organism do not pass into the foetal period at the same time, some remain in the embryonic stage whilst the others, having developed fully, go on into the foetal. Some of these so-called maladies are really malformations, at least they occupy a place midway between the diseases and the teratological states ; their peculiarities, therefore, are the result of morbid agents acting upon tissues still in the formative or evolution- ary state. Embryonic Pathology.—During embryonic life (which lasts, roughly speaking, from the end of the first week to the end of the sixth, from the appearance of the first embryonic rudiments in the embryonic area of the blastodermic vesicle to the completion of the development of the new organism and its revelation as a recognisable human embryo) it is development, not growth, which is the characteristic feature. There is growth undoubtedly, but so marked, so arrest- ing are the phenomena of development which are going on that they mask all else, and it is impossible to avoid coming to the conclusion that the physiology of the embryo is typically embryology. Embryology is, so to speak, almost the only function of embryonic life; to gain a clear idea of this stage in antenatal exist- ence it is necessary to think, not of organs per- forming functions, but of organs being formed ; embryonic physiology has to do, not with organs and their special activities, but with the special activity which produces, builds up, and perfects the organs themselves. The great, almost the only, function of the embryo is to form tissues and organs, or, in one word, organogenesis. We have to imagine an aggregate of cells arranging themselves, apparently in a disorderly fashion or in a fashion of which the order is but dimly decerned, first, into the three layers of the blastoderm, and then, after many intermediate stages and phases, into the organs which take on the particular functions of foetal and post- natal life. There is no anatomy of the embryo apart from its physiology; the two are united together in the subject of embryology, which, as it were, contains them. It is only in foetal life that the distinction between matters anatomical and matters physiological begins to become apparent; after birth it is, of course, quite evi- dent. For the sake of strict accuracy, however, it must be added that the latter part of em- bryonic life is not without indications of functional activity, in the ordinary sense of the term, and some of the organs, e.g. the heart, are performing other acts than those of formation or construction merely. There is no sharply marked boundary between embryonic and foetal life in this respect, but rather a gradual pass- age ; still, the fact remains that the principal manifestation of embryonic life stands out prominently as organogenesis. The existence of so fundamental a dissimilar- ity between the physiology of the embryo and that of the foetus prepares us for the statement that the pathology of the embryo is start- lingly unlike that of the foetus ; it is a pathology sui generis. To state the matter concisely, the pathology of the embryo is teratology. Since the chief result of the physiological activity of the embryo is the formation of parts and organs, so the chief result of pathological processes in the embryo is the malformation of its parts and organs ; the one leads to normal formation, the other to abnormal formation. Monstrosities and structural anomalies are the results of morbid agents acting upon the organism in the embryonic period of its existence, or, to write more exactly, upon such parts of the organism as are in the embryonic or formative stage- Experimental teratogenesis would seem to show that the morbid agents are in no way peculiar to the embryonic period, but are, in fact, the causes (microbic, toxinic, toxicological, traumatic) which produce diseases by their action upon the foetus and adult. In the case of the embryo they are called teratogenic, and in that of the fcetus or adult they are named pathogenic; but there is no sufficient reason for supposing that in their essential nature they differ one whit. It is the result which is dissimilar, strangely and strikingly dissimilar, being in the one instance teratological and in the other patho- logical. The mode of action of the cause is no doubt diff'erent, and the organism upon which it acts and its surroundings are indeed widely different; and it is in this manner that the vast diff'erence between the results—a monstrosity and a disease—is produced. The pathology of the embryo, then, has to do with monstrosities and malformations, with, in other words, the teratological states. At the same time Ballantyne suggests {Manual of Antenatal Pathology, ii. p. 6) that all that is teratological does not of necessity belong to the embryonic period; some organs are still in the embryonic phase when, as far a.s time goes, they are in the foetal period, and they