160 FUNIOULITIS, ENDEMIC detected in the blood ; the germ was Gram negative in preparations from the tissues and Gram positive in preparations from cultures ; and it very closely resembled the streptococcus pyogenes. The disease may be due to the extension of a mild or latent urethral infective process by way of the vas deferens, and may be predisposed to by sudden chill or traumatism. Madden's operation for this disease consists in making an incision down to the inflamed cord and removing the latter between ligatures (the upper one being put on as high as possible) ; sometimes an elongated hernial sac may then be found in an inflamed state which can be ligatured off at the internal inguinal ring; the gutter which is thus left in the inguinal region should be packed with gauze, and the whole allowed to granulate up from the bottom ; the testicles, although not them- selves affected, had better be removed, for their functions must necessarily be abolished, and their removal simplifies the subsequent treat- ment and improves the prospect of recovery. Gabbett's Staining: IVIethod.— A method of staining the tubercle bacillus in sputum; the chief peculiarity is the use of Gabbett's methylene blue solution (methylene blue, 2 grams; sulphuric acid, 25 c.c. ; water, 75 c.c), which leaves the bacilli as bright red rods and the other organisms and cells blue. See Webster, Diagnostic Methods, p. 20, 1909. Galenical.—Pertaining to Galen or to his followei's or practice ; oi' to vegetable as distinguished from chemical remedies ; or, more recently, to remedies prepared according to an official formula—e.g. Galenical preparations of the calcium salts, etc. Gall Bladder and Bile Ducts, Diseases of. — The principal advances which have been made in our knowledge of this group of diseases have been in the direction of bringing into prominence the relation which some of them bear to chronic interstitial pan- creatitis. The credit of this work rests chiefly with Mayo Robson and Cammidge, the latter of whom has introduced a method of examin- ing the urine which gives information as to the condition of the pancreas. The Cammidge reaction, and the questions of chronic pancre- atitis are discussed in the article on Diseases OF THE Pancreas, and only the main points related to diseases of the biliary passages will be referred to here. The common bile duct opens into the lumen of the duodenum about 3 inches from the pylorus by an orifice (the ampulla of Vater) common to it and the duct of Wirsung. In 60 per cent, of cases (Robson) the bile duct passes through the head of the pancreas in its course to the ampulla, and in some cases, instead of the duct of Wirsung and the bile duct opening separately, the pancreatic duct opens into the bile duct. Mayo Robson believes that the above relationship of the common bile duct to the head of the pancreas affords an explanation of many cases of so-called catarrhal jaundice : according to him the disease is frequently due to swelling of the head of the pancreas com- pressing the common duct in its course through it. Chronic catarrhal jaundice may also be caused by interstitial pancreatitis. The diag- nosis between this condition, and malignant disease of the pancreas, which it closely re- sembles, can be made by the Cammidge reaction and by examining the stools for neutral fats. Unlike cancer, the condition is curable by cholecystenterostomy. Another result of the close relationship of the biliary and pancreatic ducts is the liability of infection to spread from the bile duct to the pancreas. If an infective cholangitis occurs, as is often the case when impacted gall-stones are present, chronic, subacute, or even acute pan- creatitis may be produced. So commonly is pancreatic inflammation associated with common duct cholelithiasis of old standing, that when the diagnosis is in suspense between chole- lithiasis and cancer of the head of the pancreas, great help may be derived from an examination of the urine for Cammidge's pancreatic crystals, and of the motions for excess of neutral fats. The presence of these is in favour of pancreat- itis and against malignant disease. REFERENCES.-Mayo Robson, Edin. Med. Journ., Dec. 1905 ; Lancet, 19th March to 2nd April 1904. See also under Pancrkas. Bland Sutton, in the second edition of his Lectures on Cholelithiasis (Gall-Stones and Dis- eases of the Bile Ducts, London, 1910), states during the last five years our knowledge of diseases of the gall bladder and bile ducts has undergone a complete change. The opinion that many diseases associated with gall-stones are due to ascending infections is wide of the mark. The majority of the disturbances which come under the cognisance of the surgeon in connection with the canal system of the liver are descending infections, from contaminating elements eliminated from the blood of the portal circulation and discharged into the out- flowing bile. The best known instance of descending infection is afforded by typhoid fever. Ulceration of the gall bladder as a sequel to typhoid has been known since the days of Murchison, and numerous cases of operation for perforation of the gall bladder in this disease are on record. The presence of typhoid bacilli in the bile, however, assumed a new importance when it was found that after an attack of typhoid they might persist in the gall bladder for long periods, and retaining their pathogenicity, be excreted in the fa3ces