ANESTHESIA AND ANESTHETICS 33 A lucid conception of what the patient undergoes is given in a short article by " T. H. S.," in the Journal of the Royal Army Medical Corps for 1908. " A slight prick in the small of the back, a sharp blow as the needle was driven home through the tissues, and a faint dragging pain as it felt its way into the spinal canal. That was all, and the entire process of anaesthetising, so dreaded by the patient, and so troublesome to the operator, was over. In two minutes a warm glow spread slowly up both limbs, quickly followed by a tingling sensation in the feet. In another half-minute a heavy leaden feeling spread up both legs, and only the very slightest movement of the toes could be per- formed. The feeling of numbness gradually increased, with loss of sensation, and in three- and-a-half minutes there was a complete antes- thesia up to the umbilicus, and I was experi- encing the curious condition that, with complete control of all my faculties, I was, for all practical purposes, dead from the waist downwards. " During the whole operation, which was in the region of the right hip and the muscles of the thigh, not a single twinge of pain was felt until fifty minutes after the insertion of the needle, when cutaneous sensibility began to return, and the last few stitches were slightly painful. The spinal ansesthesia was produced whilst lying on the left side, and during the operation I found that there was not complete loss of sensation in the left leg, and that there was slight power of movement in the left foot. Slowly sensation began to return to the limbs, with the same tingling in the feet. I felt no nausea or unpleasant symptoms of any kind, and half an hour after leaving the theatre I was enjoying a cup of hot coffee and a cigarette, feeling very com- fortable, and thoroughly convinced of the tremen- dous advantages of stovaine over chloroform. " But four hours later I was not so sure about it, for I developed the most appalling headache, which lasted without a break for thirty-six hours, in spite of all treatment. Never have I experi- enced such a splitting headache, and I hope I never may again. To vary the monotony, I had attacks of agonising cramps in both legs, which lasted for an hour or so, and then gradually subsided, to be followed by another attack in a few hours. The cramps became less frequent, the headache wore away, and forty-eight hours after the injection I was my normal self once more. "My experience of stovaine may be excep- tional, and as far as I can gather, is so; but if the after-effects of spinal anesthesia are likely to be as painful and prolonged as they were in my case, then it has no advantages over chloro- form. Nothing would induce me to undergo the tortui'es of that reactionary period again, unless the administration of chloi'oform was out of the question. I have now tried both, and my experiences may be of some interest." The introduction of spinal anesthesia stands to the credit of Professor Bier, of Berlin. His was the pioneer work. He studied the effects of introducing a solution of cocaine and adrena- lin into the lumbar sac. In fact he had the operation performed on his own person to enable him to observe the effects. The result of his researches was such as to lead him to discontinue the practice ^vith such a drug as cocaine. Some five years later or so, Fourneau introduced the practice of using stovaine. This drug has been found to possess very many advantages over cocaine, and with it many cases have been operated on in which perfect ansesthesia was obtained. As will have been seen, however, from the description of the personal experiences of one upon whom it was. used, it has certain disadvantages, and many now prefer to use a newer drug—tropococaine. This latter drug is said to act more upon the sensory fibres than does stovaine, and it would appear- to be responsible for fewer serious after-efiects. Cases suitable for Spinal Ancesthesia.—Spinal aniBsthesia may be practised on any rational- minded adult, where the operation is one involving structures below the iliac crests. The method has been used on children, but obviously this is attended with many disadvan- tages. It may be used in abdominal surgery, or even where the thorax is being operated on, if means are adopted to raise the level of the anaesthetic zone, but to be certain of doing^ so is difficult, and attended with increased danger. The class of case in which it is found to be especially useful is the one where some contra-indication to the use of a general anaes- thetic exists, such as a patient with a senile heart. In no case should it be used where there is an infective focus, from which micro- organisms may escape into the general circula- tion, as the spinal anaesthetic might so lower the resistance of the cord and its membranes as to determine the circulating virus to that region, and thus set up a meningeal infection or myelitis. The Method of Inducing Spinal Ancesthesia.— The preparation of the patient for spinal anaes- thesia should be as careful and as thorough as for a general anaesthetic, because it is never absolutely certain that general anaesthesia may not ultimately be required. The skin of the lower part of the back is prepared as for an aseptic operation. In the adult man the spinal cord terminates beside the lower part of the first lumbar vertebra, and the subarachnoid space extends down to the second or third sacral vertebra. Into this space, containing the Cauda equina, it is proposed to introduce the anesthetic The Cauda equina is separated into two lateral portions by the cysterna terminalis, containing the conus meduUaris and filum terminale, and it is especially into this cistern that endeavour will be made to plunge the needle. The safest and the easiest means of gaining access to this area is by median puncture in the second or third 3