15 ABORTION emptying of the uterine cavity. If necessary, the cervix must be dilated and the interior scraped out with the finger (rubber gloves being worn), or the curette ; but if the case is already septic, it will be safer to trust to the finger than to the cui'ette (Lepage, Ann. de gynec. et d'obsiet., 2 s. iii. p. 321, 1906), for pelvic cellu- litis is apt to follow the use of the latter under such circumstances (Muni'o Kerr, Operative Mid- wifery, p. 530, 1908). No great change has been made in the treat- ment usually given to a missed abortion. If it is causing no rise of temperature or other symp- toms, it is generally left to be expelled, as it often is, at the date corresponding to the full term of labour. It ought, however, to be care- fully watched, for any signs of intra-uterine sepsis should make the attendant at once adopt the treatment for incomplete abortion. At the same time, it is felt by some obstetricians that it is hardly scientific treatment to allow a dead gestation sac to remain in the uterus till danger arise; but, on the other hand, it must be remembered that it is usually an aseptic sac lying in a germ-free cavity with which one has to do, and that there is always some doubt as to the exact diagnosis. Abrams' Heart Reflex.—A. Abrams has investigated the mode of action of Kuaisu, the method employed by the Japanese for restoring consciousness in individuals rendered unconscious for the time by a "knock-out" move- ment in jiu-jitsu, as well as in cases of uncon- sciousness from other things, in sunstroke, and in apparent drowning. Kuatsu may be carried out in various ways, but that sanctioned by the Japanese Government is "to lay the patient prone, with arms extended at right angles to the body, and for the operator to kneel over him and rhythmically strike his seventh cervical spine with the butt of his palm, wrist extended, until consciousness returns; he is then propped up, and his arms worked in a circle, after which he is helped on his feet, and induced, with help, to walk about in order to restore respiration and circulation." Abrams claims that the plan employed acts by stimulating the heart reflex to which his name has been attached, viz. " a contraction of the myocardium of varying dura- tion which results when the skin in the pre- cordial region is irritated by stroking, tapping, or friction." Abrams has found that the reflex can be excited from various surfaces of the body, and that the most satisfactory method was by percussion over the seventh cervical spine. There is another heart reflex, that of dilatation, which can be got by concussing the 9th, 10th, 11th, and 12th dorsal vertebrae rapidly and successively. The cardiac contrac- tion which follows concussion over the seventh cervical spine can be seen by means of the Rontgen rays; it involves both ventricles, and it persists for some time after the stimulus ceases to act. It is a curious fact that previous injection of pilocarpine increases the sensitive- ness of the reflex. Abrams attributes the success of the Schott treatment (exercises and baths) to the eliciting of this reflex, but thinks the " Kuatsu " plan acts more quickly and better. In heart failure with cyanosis he has found con- cussion of the seventh cervical spine beneficial. The physiological explanation would seem to be stimulation of the third dorsal nerve, which sends a large branch to the inferior cervical ganglion, from which come the augmentor fibres of the cardiac plexus. The whole subject, how- ever, requires more investigation. LITERATURE.—A. Abrams, New York Med. Journ., xcii. p. 850, 1910.—Lancet, ii. for 1910, p. 1501 ; also Abrams' Work, Spondylotherapy, San Francisco, 1910. Abrin.—The active principle of Ahrus precaturius, an intensely poisonous body, against whose effects, however, animals can be immun- ised by repeated sublethal doses; the abrin acts as a hsemolytic or hsemoclastic (Adami, Patho- logy, i. pp. 122, 306, etc., 1910). AcariasiS.—Scabies, or rather mange, as affecting animals, and due to various kinds of A cams. Acconcrs Method. See Accouche- ment Force. Accouchement Force. Indications 15 Methods 16 (a) Manual and Bimanual . . .16 (b) Hydrostatic Bags . . . .16 (c) Metallic Dilatms . . . .17 (d) Cervical Incisions . . . .18 (e) Vaginal Cesarean Section . . .19 It is convenient to group together under the name accouchement force all the operations which have as their purpose the rapid and forcible enlargement of the cervical canal and the immediate extraction of the child. In this way —the plan adopted by Munro Kerr in his Operative Midwifery (pp. 454-476, 1908)—there are brought together under one heading the operations of manual dilatation of the cervix, of dilatation by hydrostatic dilators (metre- urynters), tents, or expanding metal instruments, of enlarging the canal by means of incisions, and of vaginal Csesarean section. The essential feature of the operation is the enlargement of the cervical canal, and this can be carried out, as above indicated, by one of two methods— stretching or cutting, dilatation or section; thereafter the choice is between forceps and version, for the extraction of the infant. The indications for this operative procedure cannot as yet be clearly defined. A discussion, which had the delimitation of these various