96 CEREBRO-SPmAL MENINGITIS, EPIDEMIC examination; M'Donald, however, has made the very interesting observation that in some cases it is associated with a leptothrix. For the methods by which the meningococcus is distinguislied from tlie gonococcus and micro- coccus catarrhalis special text-books must be referred to. W. T. Ritchie has described an inconti'overtible case of gonococcal meningitis in which the accuracy of the bacteriological diagnosis was controlled by the method of com- plement fixation. The micrococcus catarrhalis is a common denizen of the naso-pharynx, and is a feitile source of difficulty in the detection of infection-carriers. The opsonic and agglutinating power of the blood in meningitis has been thoroughly worked out. Normal blood serum has very little opsonic action, and no agglutinating action on the meningococcus. Serum of cases of cerebro- spinal fever, on the other hand, has a very high opsonic index and very mai'ked power of agglutination. An opsonic index of 40 or 50 is not uncommon. The opsonic power of the blood is developed from the second day onwards ; it disappears during convalescence. Houston and Rankin found a high opsonic index and marked agglutination (" positive re- action ") in 25 per cent, of cases examined between the second and fourth days of the disease, in 60 per cent, on the fifth day, and in 96 per cent, on the sixth day and after. The blood serum of patients suffering from typhoid, tuljerculosis, pneumonia, or staphy- lococcal infection was found to have no agglu- tinating action whatever. It is difficult to escape supposing that the unusually high opsonic index met with in this disease is due to some extent to the clumping of the bacilli affording the phagocytes special oppor- tunities for ingesting masses of organisms, in a way which would not be the case were agglutination less marked. Houston and Rankin, while admitting this possil^ility, point out that very high agglutinative power is sometimes accompanied by a lower degree of phagocytosis. Another noteworthy fact in connection with the pathology of the disease is that the cerebro- spinal fluid of epidemic meningitis always has a loAV opsonic and agglutinative power. This explains why the symptoms of the disease go on unchecked despite the high opsonic and agglutinative power which the blood serum develops. Dingwall Fordyce found that, even when as much cerebro-spinal fluid as possible was withdrawn, that which replaced it (derived, of course, from the highly agglutinative and opsonic blood serum) had little or no opsonic power. As an example the following may be quoted from his oliservations :—" In the second case three estimations were made. At the first all the obtainable lumbar fluid was drawn off', luniliar punctiu'e was again performed half an hour later, and a little fluid withdrawn, and three hours later more fluid was withdrawn. The index of the blood serimi of the patient at the time was 20, and there was distinct clumping. Examination of the fluid first withdrawn showed an index of O'G, of that withdrawn second, O'S and of that withdraAvn last 0-7. It would appear, therefore, that the idea of performing frequent lumbar puncture with a view to bath- ing the parts in a fluid of high opsonic power is not one likely to meet with marked success." So constant, after the fifth day, is this " positive reaction" of the blood serum that a diagnosis may be founded on it alone. The recognition of the meningococcus is, of course, preferable, as being a simpler method, and a direct, instead of an indirect diagnostic agent. 2. Mode of Infection.—This may be con- sidered under two heads—(a) Channel of entry of the organism, and (b) nature of the spread of infection from one person to another. (a) Channel of Entry.—It has been proved that the meningococcus can be recovered from the naso-pharynx of most cases of cerebro- spinal meningitis, and it used to be assumed without question that it entered the cranial cavity directly from the throat. The latter point, however, is by no means so clear as the former, and there is some reason to suppose that the meningococcus may gain entry to the blood-stream and attack the nervous system from the spinal canal. M'Donald and others have drawn attention to the fact that in many autopsies the lesion is more advanced in the spinal cord than at the base of the brain. No direct spread from the naso-pharynx to the cranium has been conclusively demonstrated by post-mortem evidence. The possibility of an intestinal infection through swallowing the meningococcus has been suggested by the observation that in cerebro-spinal fever there is often a very marked hyperemia of the lym- phatic glands and follicles of the intestine. M'Donald, however (who was one of the eai'liest to direct attention to this), found simi- lar changes in a monkey infected by direct inoculation into the spinal cord, so that it may well be due to the general toxsemia. Fi'om the clinical standpoint Fowler points to the abolition of the abdominal reflex from the com- mencement of the disease, and to the retention of consciousness and intelligence in children until its later stages, as suggesting an earlier implication of the cord than the brain. For practical purposes, however, it is important to recollect that, by whatever path the meningo- coccus actually enters the central nervous system, it gains its fii'st lodgment in the body in the naso-pharynx. (b) Sp-ead of the Disease.—In the present, as in former epidemics, it has been noticed that the incidence of the disease in a community is