118 DIGESTION one, taking place through the blood-stream. The same observers also found that intravenous injection of an extract made by pounding up duodenal mucous membrane with dilute hydro- chloric acid caused a profuse flow of panci'eatic juice. The active substance, which has not been isolated, is called secretht. Secretin does not exist as such in the cells of the mucous membrane, but is formed by hydrolysis from a body known as prosecretin. The nervous system probably plays no part whatever in the secretion of the pancreas. Changes in the Pancreas during Secre- tion.—In addition to the changes described in the Encyclopaedia and Dictionary of Medicine (Vol. VII. p. 241), which are strictly analogous to those occurring in salivary glands, a series of special changes of quite a difterent nature occur. These concern the islands of Langerhans. These islands are not, as has been supposed, structures independent of the rest of the gland tissue, but represent phases in the life history of the secreting alveoli. They consist of rounded masses of small polygonal cells which stain with difficult}', and, in consequence, they stand out prominently from among the rest of the glandular structures. They are developed from the secreting acini as a result of exhaustion of the gland, and when this exhaustion is extreme (which can be brought about by repeated injections of secretin) the islets spread diffusely through the pancreas. The proportion of islet tissue is also increased by prolonged inactivity —e.g. from starvation. " Since the islets are in constant process of formation from alveoli as a result of activity, there must be a constant disappearance of the islets and new formation of alveoli to maintain the balance between the tissues. The embryological evidence brought forward by Laguesse, as well as by Dale's experiments on the toad, show that pancreatic growth is a function of the islets, cell multipli- cation being observed only in the islets which are produced as a result of exti'eme activity " (Starling). There is no evidence that Langerhans's islands are organs producing an internal secretion, or that they are in any way specially connected with carbohydrate meta- bolism. The jmncreatic juice is alkaline. Its alka- linity corresponds closely with the acidity of the gastric juice. The normal juice contains no trypsin, and has no effect on coagulated proteid. It, however, contains trypsinogen, and when it comes in contact with the intestinal juice it acquires very powerful pi-oteolytic proiDcrties from the conversion of the tryp- sinogen into trypsin. This conversion is brought about by a ferment—enterokinase—in the intestinal juice. The spontaneous con- version of trypsinogen into trypsin, described by earlier observers as taking place in extracts of pancreas, was due to accidental contamination with intestinal juice. Enterokinase is a specific ferment of the intestinal mucous membrane. Its relation to trypsinogen is probably that of a ferment, not, as has been suggested, that of complement to amboceptor, in which the trypsinogen links the enterokinase to the proteid molecule. Bile.—The flow of bile runs parallel to that of the pancreatic juice—it is greatest during the third hour of digestion. The excitory mechanism is the same as that of the pancreatic juice—the secretin formed in the cells of the duodenal mucous membrane by the acid chyme. The action of bile in facilitating the splitting of fats by the pancreatic juice depends on the bile salts it holds in solution. The solution acts physically, by lowering the surface tension between oily and watery fluids, and also has the power of dissolving fatty acids and soaps. It thus acts as a vehicle for conveying fats in solution through the basilar epithelium lining the gut into the deeper layers of cells, where resynthesis of the fat occurs and the bile salts are released to return to the liver. There they act as cholagogues and are rapidly excreted. Intestinal Juice.—The secretion of intes- tinal juice begins soon after a meal, and attains its maximum during the third hour of digestion. It is probably excited by a hormone-secretin, and is also produced by mechanical irritation. It contains enterokinase, and a ferment named erepsin, which, though it has little action on proteids, splits up the results of proteolysis— albumoses and peptones—into further cleavage products. It also contains ferments acting on sugars—invertase, which converts cane-sugar into glucose and Isevulose; maltase, which converts maltose into glucose; and lactase, which converts lactose into glucose and galactose. REFERENCFiS.—Recent Advances in the Physiology of Digestion, by E. H. Stauling, London, 190t).— Pawlow, The Work of the Digestive Glands (trans. Thomson), London, 1902. Dig^estive Functions, Tests for the.—From time to time a number of new tests for the digestive functions have been devised, but man}' of them seem scarcely to have been employed except by theii' inventors. The following, however, have enjoyed a certain amount of popularity, and have given rise to some discussion in the medical journals. Einhorn's Test.—This is an ingenious though rather complicated procedure. The principle is to administer a capsule containing a series of substances which should normally undergo digestion in different parts of the alimentary tract, each substance having attached to it a coloured glass bead. The beads are subsequently recovered from the stools, and the amount of digestion of the