166 GEAVES' DISEASE of lymphocytes. Kocher regards a marked lymphocytosis as au unfavourable sign. Treat- ment.—A number of attempts have been made to prepare a specific remedy for this disease, but the results, on the whole, have not been particularly successful. The preparations which have been most widely used are Moebius's anti- thyroidin, rodagen, and thja^oidectin. Moebius's serum is obtained from sheep and rams from which the thyroid gland has been removed ; thyroidectin is the dried serum of thyroidec- tomised sheep, while rodagen is the dried milk of thyroidectomised goats, with 50 per cent, of milk sugar added as a preservative. Fresh thyroidectomised goat's milk has also been used. A great number of reports of cases treated with one or other of these preparations have been published, and in a considerable number favourable results are claimed. The remedies are in all cases given by the mouth ; Moebius's serum is too irritating to be used subcutaneously. Rodagen is given in doses of two grams thrice daily ; as a rule it produces no bad symptoms, but it may cause the pulse to liecome excessively slow, so that its effects must be carefully Avatched. It. is an expensive remedy. The rationale of the use of these drugs is that the serum of a thyroidectomised animal contains substances which should nor- mally be neutralised by the secretion of the thyroid ; hence they can neutralise the exces- sive thyroid secretion which is supposed to cause the symptoms of exophthalmic goitre. Of greater interest, however, are the at- tempts to produce a thyrotoxic serum. Murray tried to do so by injecting thyroid into animals, and by feeding, but his results were inconclu- sive. The most extensive work in this direction has been done by Beebe. He injects the nucleo-proteids of the thyroid, not the whole gland, because if the whole gland be used the serum which is obtained is not purely thyro- toxic, but hiemolytic as well. Rogers has used Beebe's serums clinically. He obtained favour- able results with serum from fresh thyroids of patients with exophthalmic goitre, from nucleo- proteid, and from thyroglobulin of the same, but not with that derived from normal human thyroid. In their later papers, Beebe and Rogers exjDress a preference for a serum made by injecting both the nucleo-proteid and thyro- globulin into rabbits, dogs, and sheep. The serum oV>tained is cytotoxic, and perhaps anti- toxic. Their statistics include 90 cases, with 23 recoveries, 52 improvements, 11 failures, and 4 deaths. In a favourable case a reaction follows the injection of the antiserum :—1. At times an "early reaction " occurs with faintness, cyanosis, and other rather alarming symptoms. This is rare. 2. The other reaction is more constant, and occurs about 12 hours after the serum is injected. There is redness and oedema at and around the site of injection, with fever and tachycardia. A second dose of serum should not be given until this reaction has subsided. LITERATURE.—Kocher, Arch. Min. Chir., Bd. 87, p. 131.—Hallion, Presse me'd., 1st Nov. 1905.— MuREAT, Lancet, 11th Nov. 1905.—Rogers and Beebe,. Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc., 17th Feb. and 1st Sept. 1906. A number of reports of cases treated with Moebius's serum will be found in the files of the Miinch. med. Wochensch. of 1905 and onwards, Grawitz'S Basophilia.—A degenera- tion of the red cells of the l)lood {j^unctate basophilia of Grawitz), characterised by the appearance in the body of the cell of granules staining with the basic dyes; the condition is met with in lead-poisoning (where it may be the only change noted in the blood), in pernicious anajmia, in leukaemia, and in the toxemia of malignant states. *S'ee Webstei-, Diacjostic Methods, p. 471, 1909. Gray's Tonic.—A tonic recommended in nervous exhaustion and general debility, containing glycerine, gentian, taraxacum, phos- phoric acid, sherrj^ and carminatives; it is free from iron. See Lancet, ii. for 1907, p. 905. Green Days.—See Diabetes {Diet). Green Tumours.—See Chloroma. Griserin.—A mixture of loretin {& quino- line derivative) and sodium Ijicarbonate ; it has been recommended as an iodoform substitute. Grocco's Sig^n of Pleural Effu- sion.—The Paravertebral Triangle or DULNESS.—In March 1902 Grocco of Florence described as a new sign of pleural effusion a triangular area of dulness on the sound side of the chest. It is bounded below by the base of the lung, internally by the vertebral spines, and externally by the hypotenuse of this right- angled triangle. Since Grocco made known his discovery, a nnmlier of observers have corroborated it, and most clinicians appear to ascribe considerable diagnostic significance to the presence of this triangular dull area. Thayer and Fabyan regard it as a constant and characteristic sign of fluid, and an important addition to our means of diagnosis. Thej^ were al)le to demonstrate its presence in thirty out of thirty-two cases. The breath-sounds over the dull area are faint; there may be segophony. Ewart lays considerable stress on the fact that when the patient lies on the affected side the triangle of dulness disappears, and returns again when the erect posture is assumed. The triangle is usually lai-ger on the left side—that is, in the case of right-sided effusions—than on the right. The most probable explanation of the phenomena is that off'ered by Baduel and