286 PARATHYROID GLANDS bility of making certain that in the operation all parathyroid tissue has been removed and no aberrant parathyroid left behind, and at the same time of performing complete excision without in any way injuring the thyroid gland. (3) The contradictory nature of the alleged symptoms. Jolly and Vincent found that removal of all four parathyroids was not necessarily fatal; a few experiments which they made in the way of injuring adjacent structures in the neck without removing the parathyroids suggest that tetany might be due to accidental injury to nerves, etc., during parathyroidectomy. Forsyth reasons on evolu- tionary grounds, that it is impossible that the parathyroid possesses a special, vitally im- portant function. "If it be granted that these glands are essential to life they cannot be regarded as of recent [phylogenetic] de- velopment, yet, if their origin is to be set back to a remote evolutionary period, the difficulty has to be met that few, if any, of the organs in the body show such wide variations." Forsyth worked out the comparative histology of the glands on mammals and birds, and found that all stages between parathyroid and typical thyroid structure were traceable. According to Forsyth, Swale Vincent, and Jolly the parathyroids and thyroids are parts of one whole; the parathyroids are " essentially thyroidal in nature, possessing no peculiar function, but engaged in the active secretion of the same substance as the thyroid gland" (Forsyth). As opposed to this theory, we have the opinions of the large number of workers who believe they have established the existence of a definite function independent of (or even antagonistic to) that of the thyroid. In 1896 Vassale and Generali carried out an exhaustive series of experiments on the effects of extirpat- ing some or all of the parathyroids, with or without partial or total thyroidectomy, and it is really on their results, which seemed very clearly to prove that total parathyroidectomy caused tetany, that all subsequent research has been founded. A great many other observers have obtained more or less confirmatory re- sults ; the principal experimenters have been Gley, Pineles, Welsh, Erdheim, MacCallum, and Halsted. Halsted has quite recently published a long series of experiments on dogs on transplantation of parathyroid tissue, the object of his research being to settle what course a surgeon should pursue when he accidentally injures the structures in operating for goitre. He found that grafts only "took" when an animal's own para- thyroid was used (auto-transplantation), and that, only when a deficiency of parathyroid tissue had been created by the removal of at least half the parathyroids. Parathyroid tissue in excess of what the organism needs does not survive. Total thyroid-parathyroidec- tomy causes death from tetany ; total thyroid- parathyroidectomy with auto-transplantation of a parathyroid causes myxoedema. If, in the latter case, the grafted parathyroid be removed subsequently, tetany occurs. In addition to suff'ering from acute or chronic tetany, parathyroidectomised animals become emaciated, lose their hair, and become affected with dermatitis. Erdheim found that in rats the enamel of the teeth showed characteristic lesions, and became defective, the process ending in loss of the upper incisors. The lower incisors grew abnormally. Albuminuria is fairlj?^ constant after the operation. In young animals there is some evidence that the growth of the bones is interfered with. In the face of these two conflictory sets of experiments it is very difficult to form any conclusion as to the functions of the para- thyroids. It maj' be remarked, however, that those workers who believe that extirpation of the organs cause tetany greatly outnumber those who deny a connection between the two. There is, moreover, a certain amount of evidence along other lines which lends support to the idea that ablation of the parathyroids, or disturbance of their function, causes tetany. Tetany is a disease which occurs under a variety of diff'erent conditions, and it is now generally accepted that, whether it is associated with pregnancy, with rickets, or with occupation, it is fundamentally the same. It is not unreasonable to suppose, therefore, that insufficiency of some internal secretion predisposes to it, while some other cause pre- cipitates an attack. Tetany has a peculiar geographical distribution ; it is endemic in cer- tain localities, unknown, or almost unknown, in others—in this respect it is comparable to goitre. Persons going to reside in a goitrous district often develop goitre; the same is observed with regard to tetany. In Vienna, where tetany used to be endemic, Chvostek states that the majority of the cases occurred among Slav immigrants. There appears to be some antagonism between goitre and tetany, for in goitrous districts tetany is rare, and vice versd. In Vienna, where tetany is now declining, goitre is becoming more common. These analogies are at least interesting as suggesting that the two diseases have the same kind of origin. Another point of some interest is, that in some cases animals which have had several parathyroids removed, and have re- mained apparently healthy, have subsequently become pregnant and developed tetany. In the tetany of childreen (see SPASMOPHILE Diathesis) there is some reason to suppose that calcium metabolism is at fault. MacCallum and Voigtlein have shown that in parathyroid- ectomised animals the calcium content of the