TUBERCULOSIS 377 abdominal tuberculosis is least frequent. More- over, it is the experience of so eminent an authority as Emmet Holt that tubercle is rarely conveyed by milk. "While, therefore, the relative frequency of human and bovine tuberculosis, of infection by ingestion and inhalation, is still unsettled, there is no doubt whatever of the great sus- ceptibility of infants to the disease, and it follows that the protection of babies and children from all possible sources of infection must form an important part of the crusade against tuberculosis. Tuberculin Treatment. — A number of dilferent preparations pass under the generic name tuberculin. The most important of these are Koch's Old (1890) Tuberculin, Koch's New (1897) Tuberculin—known as O.T. and T.R. (R = residue) respectively ; Tuberculocidin— Kleb's Tuberculin ; Deny's Tuberculin—Bou- illon Filtre (B.F.) ; Koch's Bacillen-emulsion (B.E.); and Beraneck's Tuberculin. Marmo- reck's serum and Maragliano's serum are anti- tuberculous serums. At the Tuberculosis Con- gress of 1905 Professor v. Behring announced a new remedy derived from the virus of tuberculosis, which he named T.C. This was stated to consist of tubercle bacilli freed from (a) toxic materials soluble in water, (6) toxic globulins soluble in salt solution, and (c) non- toxic principles soluble in alcohol, etc. The residue—rest-bacillus—can be so modified as to be directly capable of absorption by the lymphatic cells of an animal, during which process a state of immunity evolves. A funda- mental fact in connection with T.C. is that it has the power of producing tuberculous nodules, which, however, do not caseate. Since Beh- ring's original and very vague communication, practically nothing further has been heard of the matter. Old tuberculin is a glycerine extract of tubercle bacilli from which the dead bacilli are filtered off. New tuberculin is prepared by treating the pounded bodies of dried bacilli with saline solution, and centrifuging the mixture. The deposit (T.R.) is made up with water. A mixture of T.R. and the opalescent fluid separated from it by the centrifuge is called Bacillen Emulsion (B.E.). Deny's tuber- culin is a filtered Bouillon culture of bacilli. Beraneck's tuberculin is an extract. In all probability these tuberculins do not differ fundamentally from one another. Of these remedies Koch's new tuberculin is that which is by far the most widely used in this country at the present time. It is manu- factured by Meister, Lucius & Bruning, who supply it in small phials containing 10 mgr. of solid substance.^ Before use it must be diluted ^ It seems that each phial actually contains only 2 mgrs. of solid substances 10 mgr. tubercle bacilli. Thus the doses given required to be renamed ; yzt!-is mgr. = only with 20 per cent, glycerine in distilled water, and as great care is necessary both to secure sterility and exactitude in dosage, it is best to procure it from some firm of wholesale chemists which sends out single doses sealed in glass capsules ready for use. A great impetus to the use of tuberculin in this country was given by AVright's re- searches on the opsonic index and on vaccine therapy (vide Immunity, pp. 199, 202). Wright found that while the tuberculo-opsonic index in healthy persons was between '8 and 1'2, in tuberculous patients with localised lesions the index was persistently low, while if the disease was widespread or active the index fluctuated greatly, the rises and falls being due to periodic auto-inoculation. When the index is raised in localised tuberculous lesions there is a tendency towards healing, and by the injection of small doses of tuberculin a rise in the opsonic index is brought about. The immediate result of inoculating a tuberculous patient with tuber- culin is to lower the index (negative phase); the fall is succeeded by a rise ("positive phase "), and thus in a variable time the index returns more or less to its old level. The negative phase varies according as a larger or smaller dose of vaccine is inoculated. In the former case the negative phase may disclose itself by temperature reaction ; in the latter case it may be unassociated with clinical symptoms. The positive phase is characterised by an increased antibacterial power of the blood, and may be accompanied by a very pronounced feeling of well-being. If serial injections be made during successive negative phases of reduced antibacterial power a cumu- lative effect in the direction of the negative phase occurs. It is not, however, possible in connection with antituberculous inoculations to bring about a cumulative effect in the direction of the positive phase by serial injections during positive phases (Wright). The object aimed at is to maintain the opsonic index at as high a level as possible for as long a period as possible, and therefore an accumulation of negative phases, or a too prolonged negative phase from a large dose of tuberculin must be avoided. Wright advises that each inoculation should be looked upon as a separate operation, and that no attempt should be made to lengthen the positive phase by reinoculation during the positive phase. In every case the smallest close should be given which will elicit a satisfactory response. The dose should be repeated only when the effect of the preceding inoculation is passing off. The dose should be increased only when it is clear that the dose previously employed is ceasing to evoke a suflicient im- munising response. As a rule inoculations are tttpo mgr. Solid substance. In the text, however, the old nomenclature has been followed, tti'st; mgr. = jsisi! of a phial of T.R.