DANYSCZ'S PHENOMENON 110 enzyme-like action on the part of the toxins, but there are differences of opinion on this subject. Deal in Powder.—A proprietary pre- paration, described as an antiseptic medicament for wounds ; it contains sodium perborate, boric acid, zinc oxide, talc, starch, and magnesium carbonate. See Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1910, p. 761. Dechlorination. — See Nephritis {Treatment). Decidual Reaction.—The changes occurring in a mucous membrane as the result of the implantation of an impregnated ovum thereupon ; normally it is limited to the mucosa of the uterine corpus, but it is believed by some to be possessed occasionally by the mucous membrane of the Fallopian tube and to account for tubal pregnancy. Deciduoma Maiig^num. — See Uterus, Tumours of. Decompression.—*S'ee Caisson Dis- ease (Decomj)ression). Defectives.—AS'ee Degenerates. Degrenerates, Sterilisation of.— Asexualisation has been proposed as a preven- tive measure in certain forms of mental, moral, a,nd physical degeneration; there are various oper- ative procedures, but a simple one is to make a small incision through the skin of the scrotum near the pubis, and to take up the vas deferens and vessels and tie them off (vasectomy) ; a more serious operation is castration ; some of the States of the American Union have passed laws permitting the sterilisation of criminals; it is maintained that laws for the prevention of marriage between the unfit are not sufficient, and that segregation (or colonisation) is expen- sive, and that some form of sterilisation is needed ; in women the correspondmg operation would be salpingectomy. H. C. Sharp (Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc., liii. pp. 1897-1902, 1909) o;ives an account of nearly 500 cases of vasec- tomy done in Indiana on confirmed criminals, idiots, imbeciles, etc. See also Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc., vol. 1. p. 5-5, 1908 ; vol. lii. p. 1114, 1909 ; Belfield, ibid., lii. p. 1211, 1909. Dementia Paranoides.—A variety of dementia priecox {q.v.). Dementia Praecox.—Dementia pre- cox is a term recently introduced by Kraepelin to include a large number of clinical types of insanity. It is the adolescent insanity of English writers, the Jugendirresein of the Germans, the d^mence precoce of the French, and the primary dementia of the Americans. Kraepelin's conception of dementia praecox is generally regarded as constituting a distinct advance in psychiatry, although his views have not by any means received universal acceptance in their entirety. It is impossible to give any short, comprehensive definition of the term. Before Kraepelin's generalisation, alienists classi- fied the primary insanities of adolescence and young adult life in a great variety of ways— mania, melancholia, stupor, dementia, catalepsy, delusional insanity, and so on. What Kraepelin does is to subordinate all these clinical features to one which is common to all cases—namely, progressive mental deterioration. At the begin- ning of the chapter on dementia pra3C0x in his text-book, he says : " Under the term dementia prajcox we range a series of disease pictures whose common characteristic is a termination in a peculiar weakened state of the mind. This unfavourable outcome need not occur in everj'^ instance, but is nevertheless so exceed- ingly frequent as to justify our holding fast to this general name." Practically, Kraepelin raises the ultimate result of a disease process to the level of a nosological criterion; his presentation of dementia precox is therefoi'e an advance in the prognosis of a hitherto unclassified groujj of cases. An excellent historical sketch of the gradual evolution of the modern idea of dementia pnecox is given by Dorsay Hecht {Joxiru.. of Nervous and Mental Diseases, 1905), who quotes Clouston as having recognised the existence of the condition in question in 1888 — " There are many cases [of adolescent insanity] where previous excitement was so slight and so short-lived that we must conclude that the essential nature of the mental disease was a tendency to dementia from the very begin- ning." Dementia prajcox may begin in adolescence, or its onset may be delayed until the third or fourth decade. The variety of clinical forms included under the term is very great, and Kraepelin admits that to a superficial observer the connection between them may not be very readily discernible. A very clear account of Kraepelin's presentation of dementia pra3cox is given by Dr. Macpherson in the Review of Neurology and Psychiatry, vol. v., 1907, and the following description of the main symptoms is taken from that paper :— (1) A peculiar stupid listlessness in which patients appear oblivious of their surroundings, but are in reality able to appreciate what is happening. Only when there is profound stupoi', a grave melancholic condition, or serious delusion, are orientation and the per- ception of the surroundings markedly interfered with. (2) The sensory sphere is implicated ; there