ANTENATAL PATHOLOGY 39 may develop malformations at this later epoch. Again, there is I'eason to believe that some teratological states are determined in the ger- minal period; united twins, for instance, may originate then. Ballantyne's main thesis, how- ever, is that embryology is the key to the under- standing of teratology; the latter is a disturb- ance of the former, teratological results being produced by irregularities in embryological pro- cesses. Normally the embryology of the facial region, although, indeed, most complex, results in the formation of the facial features without let or flaw; but if the organogenetic processes be interfered with, if one fissure closes too soon or too late, or if one process projects too far or not enough, facial deformities, such as hare lip or genal fissure, are produced. Embryology in disorder, then, is teratology. Further, when we come to ask how the embryological disorder is brought about, we find an answer to our question in the immediate environment of the embryo. Normally the embryo floats free in the liquor amnii; but if, from scarceness of the liquor or from adhesiveness of the embryo or of the walls of the embryonic sac, the amnion comes in con- tact with and becomes united to the embryo, then that part of the embryo so affected is arrested or distorted in its development, and a malformation results. At a later stage the embryo, now grown into a foetus, may separate from the amniotic wall, and so the demonstra- tion of the causation of its deformed condition may no longer be made patent. Amniotic pressure, for instance, can be made to account for such an apparently inexplicable teratological state as sympodia; the lower limbs at the early stage of development, when they are bud- like rudiments, get pressed together, and at the same time rotated in such a fashion as to produce the characteristic sireniform monstrosity. Some monstrosities, it is true, more especially those in which two embryos are concerned (placental parasites, united twins, etc.), cannot be entirely explained by a reference to embryological states and the arresting amni- otic factor; for their elucidation it is necessary to consider conditions prior to embryonic life, germinal anomalies in fact; but the great ma- jority of the deformities which affect the unborn infant have an embryological and amniotic explanation. There is also reason to believe that the teratogenic pressure is not always amniotic in nature : it may sometimes be caused by pelvic or abdominal tumours, by deformities of the uterus or narrowness of a tubal gestation sac, by the umbilical cord, or even by one part of the embryo compressing another. Experi- mental teratogeny, however, seems to demon- strate that amniotic narrowness is the most frequent factor in the production of mon- strosities. Germinal Pathology.—" The pathology of the germ," writes Ballantyne {op. cit., ii. p. 607), " is the Hinterland of Antenatal Pathology," and it is true that of its characters we know extraordinarily little; it is almost wholly an unexplored territory. To begin with, we have very little information of the life of the human germ before the appearance of the first rudi- ments of the embryo in the embryonic area of the blastocyst. This is the terminus ad quern of germinal life, and corresponds, roughly speaking, to the end of the first week after the occurrence of impregnation. The terminus a quo is much more difficult of definition : for the individual life it may be regarded as the conjunction of ovum and spermatozoon in fertilisation, but it really begins much further back, when the reproductive cells of the parents become special- ised from the cells of the genital ridge. Germinal life then consists of a short period (a week) of single existence, and of a long precedent period of dual existence, when the germ cell and the sperm cell are lying apparently dormant in the tissues of the parent organism. Further, inas- much as the germ cell is believed to contain a particle of the structural elements of the germ of the preceding generation, and that a particle of the generation before, and so on, it becomes impossible to fix a starting-point. In this sense germinal life is without beginning, an idea which plays a large part in the modern theories of heredity ; but, for practical purposes, we may regard the germinal life of the individual as beginning in the vital activities of the two reproductive cells of his parents, in the ovum and the spermatozoon which by their union cause him to come into being. After a long period of what may be termed latency in the Graafian follicle of the ovary, the ovum under- goes the process of maturation, is expelled from its ovarian habitation, is transmitted through the Fallopian tube, and reaches the uterus. Either in the tube or in the uterus the ovum is fertilised by a spermatozoon, an event which marks the commencement of a unified germinal life ; intricate changes are thus occasioned which lead to the formation of the morula mass and to the appearance, first of the extra-embryonic structures of the blastocyst (umbilical vesicle, chorion, amnion, etc.) and later of the embryonic rudiments in the specialised part of the blasto- cyst known as the embryonic area. The sper- matozoon which plays so large a part in initiat- ing this unified germinal life has also a past history, about which less even is known than about that of the ovum, during which it is subject to influences which no doubt deeply impress themselves upon the future develop- ment of the embryo. Now, if the same principle of study be applied to the pathology of germinal life as was brought to bear upon embryonic pathology (vide ante), that, namely, of looking for an explanation of characteristic morbid developments along the line of physiological peculiarities, it will at