361 SYPHILIS Immunity Diagnosis on pp. 197, 198. Since it was first introduced it has been the object of much research, and a number of modifica- tions have been devised. Some of these are simpler than the original Wassermann, and may, in the near future, become available for ordinary clinical work. It is now held by nearly all workers that the Wassermann reaction is not specific in the ordinary sense—i.e. the complement fixation is not dependent on the interaction of bacterial antibodies and antigens. What apparently happens is that in consequence of the action of the syphilitic virus tissue disintegration ensues, and lipoids are set free in the tissue juices. These lipoids play the part of antibody iind antigen, the antibodies being possibly of the nature of cholesterin, the antigens being probably lecithin. However this may be, it has been shown that it is not necessary to use syphilitic foetal liver to prepare the antigen, but that extract of normal liver or heart, and sodium oleate, bile salts, or lecithin and other substances may be employed with success. Thus one of the difficulties in the original method—the need for an extract of syphilitic foetal liver—has been overcome. Another modification facilitating the general use of the test is (a) either to take advantage of the normal property of human serum to lyse sheep's corpuscles, or (6) to employ the •corpuscles of the patient, and to use a serum prepared by immunising a rabbit against human corpuscles. Of several tests based on these principles two may be referred to :— 1. Fleming's Modification.—Advantage is taken of the normal hsemolytic action of human serum on sheep's corpuscles : the serum to be tested is therefore made to supply complement and amboceptor. The materials required are alcoholic extract of heart, blood serum, and washed sheep's corpuscles. No more human serum is required than for the estimation of the opsonic index. Full details of the method will be found in the Lancet, 29th May 1909. An objection to this test, and others of the same type, is the variability, and occasional absence, of the haBmolytic-sheep-amboceptor in diflferent specimens of human blood. 2. Nogiichi's Modification.—In this use is made (1) of an anti-human amboceptor, pre- pared by injecting a rabbit with washed human corpuscles. There are also required (2) com- plement—fresh guinea-pig serum ; (3) antigen —alcoholic extract of liver or 3 per cent, solu- tion of lecithin ; (4) suspension of human cor- puscles prepared by mixing one drop of normal blood to 4 c.c. saline solution ; (5) serum to be tested, collected from ten drops of the patient's blood. Six tubes are used in performing the test. In one pair a drop of the patient's serum is placed, in the second pair a control normal serum, in the third pair a control syphilitic serum. Each tube then receives blood cor- puscles, amboceptor, and complement, and one tube of each pair antigen. The test has been further simplified for clinical work by using pieces of filter papers saturated with the re- agents and dried. These can be standardised ; they keep indefinitely. Anti-human ambo- ceptor slips, complement slips, and lecithin slips are supplied. They are dropped by means of forceps into three pairs of tubes containing suspension of corpuscles, suspected serum, and the two control serums. The tubes are incu- bated in the breast pocket. Forges Meier Reaction.—Equal parts of blood serum and 1 per cent, emulsion of lecithin in normal saline are mixed and allowed to stand at room temperature for five hours. The lecithin emulsion is precipitated by syphilitic, not by normal serum. The results are said to be fairly comparable to those of the original Wassermann test. Syphilis in Relation to Nervous Diseases, ESPECIALLY TaBES AND GENERAL PARALYSIS. —The discovery of the cause of syphilis has, if anything, strengthened the widespread belief that tabes and general paralysis are syphilitic in origin. Mott and Spielmeyer have pointed out the very close resemblance which exists between the lesions of general paralysis and sleeping sickness. As has already been stated, Schaudinn regarded the spirochsete pallida as a species of trypanosome, and the conclusion is supported by the analogy of the disease of horses, mal de edit or donrine, the lesions and course of which resemble syphilis, and which is due to a trypanosome. In mal de coit and in syphilis the organism multiplies in the lymphatics; the same is true of sleeping sickness. The syphilitic nature of tabes and general paralysis is further supported by the fact that in a large percentage of cases of these diseases a positive Wassermann reaction is obtained (see Immunity Diagnosis, p. 198). Mott points to the following facts showing that syphilis is the essential cause of tabes and general paralysis :—1. The remarkable statistics of Erb. 2. Very few eminent neurologists or psychiatrists believe otherwise. 3. The cerelsro-spinal fluid of tabes, general paralysis, and syphilitic meningitis invariably contains lymphocytes, often plasma cells, and no poly- nuclears. This occurs in no other chronic affection of the nervous system except sleeping sickness. 4. The existence of antisyphilitic bodies in the serum and cerebro-spinal fluid of tabes and general paialysis. 5. KrafFt- Ebing's failure to inoculate general paralysis with syphilis. 6. In 80 per cent, of 40 cases of juvenile general paralysis syphilitic ante- cedents were determined, and in no case could the disease be excluded. 7. The Argyll- Robertson pupil is practically only met with