SURGERY, ASEPSIS IN 349 towels, instruments kept in salt solution, and the hands of the operator might easily become infected by dust, etc., and that antiseptic solutions were useful in preventing or correct- ing this failure of technique. For the same reason (risk of infection during operation) he recommended the placing of catgut in un- diluted carbolic acid for a few hours, and then in 1 in 20 lotion for a week ; before use the carbolic was soaked out in a weak sublimate solution. He thought, further, that drainage of wounds by tubes so widely replaced by drainage by gauze should be reconsidered, especially in cases in which pus was present. He criticised the after treatment of wounds with dressings which had been sterilised (often imperfectly) by heat but which contained in themselves no antiseptic, and attributed stitch abscesses to their use. The main contention was that antiseptic methods should not be entirely abandoned in favour of so-called aseptic ones, and that such an abandonment if cariied out rigorously introduced unnecessary complications; the sterilisation of towels, in- struments, etc. by boiling, and of dressings by superheated steam added security, but was insufficient by itself without the use of chemical disinfectants. In a more recent article {Lancet, i. for 1910, pp. 15-18) Sir Watson Cheyne reiterates his warnings against the neglect of chemical anti- septics and the trusting entirely to aseptic plans. He believes that there is extravagance in the fittings of operating theatres, and that there may be much simplification of technique by the use of antiseptic solutions and the like. His contention that placing instruments on a dry sterilised towel during a lengthy operation does not keep them sterile, more especially if the operator himself does not re-sterilise his hands or gloves, seems a just one. Doubtless the weak point in the aseptic principle is the absence of effective re - sterilisation during operation and the exaggeration of the value of boiling and especially of short periods of boiling. The line of advance in the immediate future would seem to be the utilisation of the best in both plans of procedure, the aseptic and the antiseptic. In the long run the decision as to the best method must be founded on statistics, and into statistics there enters always the disturbing element of the individuality of the operator; the strictest asepsis in his surroundings will not save the surgeon who is careless as to his hands, and he who is scrupulously careful in this respect will get good results with a comparatively inadequate armamentarium in an old-fashioned operating theatre. But not only is there the individuality of the operator, there is that of the patient, and it is significant of the changing times that Sir Frederick Treves and Mr. Hutchinson begin their Manual of Operative Surgery (3rd edit., vol. i. 1909) with a chapter on "The Patient," and quote Sir James Paget's words: " Never decide upon an operation, even of a trivial kind, without first examining the patient as to the risks of his life. You should examine him with at least as much care as you would for a life insurance." There is need for this precaution, for antisepsis and asepsis have so lessened the risks arising from the operation qud operation as to obscure in the surgeon's mind the danger's that may lurk in the patient's constitution or habits; and yet these dangers are real, as Sir Frederick Treves found when he snipped off a small fibrous epulis from the gum of a little boy, who was then discovered to be the subject of hasmophilia. It is a fact to be borne in mind that the strong, robust man or woman who has never known a day's illness in his or her life does not make the best patient for operation ; indeed, the feeble man or woman who has been for weeks in bed, and is, as it were, acclimatised to invalidism, will often pass satisfactorily through a severe operation. Fat and plethoric people of middle age make bad subjects, and so, most emphati- cally, do alcoholics; rheumatism and gout, cancer and antemia, on the other hand, do not interfere with wound-healing ; syphilis also, as as a rule, is no contra-indication to operation. Leucocythemia, however, and diabetes are most unfortunate complications of operation. Pneumonia, one of the exanthemata, or any other acute disease, makes operation danger- ous ; and the influence of heart disease, kidney disease, liver disease, and, to some extent, of pulmonary maladies (e.g. chronic bronchitis), has to be borne in mind by the surgeon. It is more than likely that the line of surgical advance in the immediate future will be in the direction of preparing or fortifying the patient against microbic attack, without at the same time diminishing any of the precautions, aseptic or antiseptic, which are now taken. Special Technique. —Operating Room.— The introduction of strict asepsis into surgical practice has brought with it changes in the construction of the operating theatre, and in its fittings and adjuncts, which can only be called revolutionary. Some of the new operating rooms in modern hospitals have cost large sums of money, disproportionately large when we have regard to the actual improvement in results which can be claimed to have proceeded there- from. In some cases it is not a single room one has to do with, but a suite; there is the operating theatre proper, a room off it for sterilising the patient, another for anaesthetising him, another for the assistants and dressers preparing them- selves, and another for the surgeon's require- ments. The theatre has walls and a floor of tiles or polished cement (wood, unless of a very hard type, is rigidly excluded), and there