TYPHOID FEVER 382 to the gall bladder, where they flourish luxuri- ,antly. Their growth is especially favoured by the catarrh of the gall bladder which their presence usually excites. The discovery that the gall bladder is a favourite nidus for the organism is of great importance in connection with the perpetuation of the disease, for it has now been abundantly proved, first by the researches of Kayser and Forster" and other hygienists in Strasburg, and later by observa- tions made here and in America, that a certain number of typhoid patients, women more ■especially, continue to harbour in their biliary passages, and to excrete by the bowel, numbers of virulent Imcilli for months and even years after recovery from the disease. A point of minor interest is the possibility of there being in some cases a relation between typhoid cholecystitis and the subsequent occurrence of gall-stones. The proportion of female to male bacilli carriers is about 3 or 4 to 1, almost the same as that which exists between female and male sufferers from gall-stones. Moreover, Blumenthal and Kayser have discovered typhoid bacilli in the interior of gall-stones. It is obvious that the existence of these healthy bacilli carriers explains the occurrence of outbreaks of typhoid in localities where infection from a typhoid patient can be ex- cluded, and many instances of this have been discovered of late years. The now classical case of a Strasburg female baker was described by Kayser in 1906. Almost every new em- ployee in her bakery contracted typhoid sooner or later, and two died. The faeces of the proprietor, who had had typhoid ten years before, swarmed with bacilli. In other cases reported by Friedal, a bacilli carrier (cook) served in eight houses during eight years, and •during that time infected 24 persons. A. and J. C. G. Ledingham" describe the case of an -asylum in which, since 1893, a series of small outbreaks of typhoid (31 cases in all) occurred. All external sources of infection having been excluded, the faeces of the females in the estab- lishment were examined, and three bacilli carriers were found. Bacilli carriers can be divided into two ■classes—those who get rid of the organism in the course of a few weeks, and those who harbour bacilli for months or years. The latter are known as " chronic bacilli carriers " or " continuously infective " {dauerausscheider) as opposed to simple " bacilli carriers " {Bacillen trdger). According to Frosch* women form 60 per cent, of all bacilli carriers, and 82 per cent, of the continuously infective ; children under 15 are seldom continuously infective (4 per cent.) ; more frequently bacilli carriers (35 per cent.). When it is remembered that women form a numerically small percentage of all cases of typhoid, and yet contribute a large ■quotum to carrier cases in general ; further, that most of them engage in domestic work and cookery, we see that a woman who has had typhoid is not unlikely to be a source of danger. Bacilli carriers have only been recog- nised for about five year.s, so that it is impos- sible to obtain bacteriological evidence as to the extreme limit of time for which a person may remain infectious. In 310 cases observed 144 were infectious up to 3 months, 64 for 3 months to 1 year, 102 for 1 to 3| years. In 25 cases in which the beginning of the infec- tion was based on the history alone, it lasted from 4 to 9 years in 14, from 10 to 20 years in 6, and from 20 to 30 years in 5. A note- worthy point in connection with bacilli carriers is that they excrete enormous numbers of bacilli, and that the bacilli disappear from and reappear in the f«ces in a highly irregular manner. A single negative examination, there- fore, is inconclusive. The bacilli are as virulent as those in patients actually suffei'ing from typhoid fever. Frosch gives the following statistics as to the frequency of bacilli carriers in S.-W. Prussia. Among a total of 6708 patients, 310 (4-6 per cent.) excreted bacilli for more than 10 weeks after convalescence. Of these 310, 144 ceased to be infectious within 3 months; 166 remained continuously infective. Out of a population of 2,300,000 souls 276 cases of typhoid were traced to the 310 carriers. In a series of 978 cases of typhoid the source of infection was ascertained as follows : —71-2, another patient; 237, food or milk; 5'1, a carrier case. There is, unfortunately, no known method of dealing effectively with bacilli carriers. Cholecystectomy has been performed in cases with gall-stones ; even this is not always suc- cessful in curing the infection. Attempts at intestinal disinfection, and at active immunisa- tion, have proved equally futile. The detection of bacilli carriers, and the instructions given to them as to the need for disinfection of the hands and stools, have, in S.-W. Prussia, greatly reduced the morbidity from typhoid from this particular source. Bacilhiria. — According to Easton" and Knox^" typhoid bacilli are found in the urine of about 21 per cent, of patients. They are usually very abundant—many millions in each c.cm. The invasion of the urine takes place during the later stages of the disease, and the organisms may persist for months or years. In most cases the bacilluria is curable by urotropin, even if cystitis is present. Symptomatology.—Little has been added to the clinical picture of typhoid during the past few years. We may refer, however, to the now numerous observations on local typhoid infec- tions which do not give rise to the general symptoms of typhoid fever. Thus nephritis (Napier and Buchanan '^), pyelitis (Brownlee and Chapman ^'■^), pleurisy, jaundice, and menin-