HEART, DISEASES OF 173 originating at some place other than the mouths of the veins. The rhythm of the heart in which a ventricular venous pulse is obtained is called the " nodal rhythm," and its onset is characterised by (a) a change in the venous pulse from the auricular to the ven- tricular type, (6) disappearance of all other evidences of auricular systole, e.g. the cessation of a previously existing presystolic bruit, and (c) continued irregularity. Electro-Cardiograms.—The galvanometer has been applied to the study of the movements of the heart by G. A. Gibson and Einthoven, whose independent investigations were carried on, and published, almost simultaneously. Gib- son employed Lippmann's capillary electro- meter, connecting the acid with the basil region of the prtecordia, and the mercury with the apical. In the case examined a condition of heart-block was present, there being three or four auricular systoles to each ventricular systole. The usual diphasic movements of the mercury occurred preceding the apex beat, and between these, smaller oscillations were also detected, evidently due to auricular contrac- tions, since they corresponded with the venous pulsations which had already been found in venous tracings, and with the movements of the auricles seen on the fluorescent screen. Einthoven's work was more elaborate ; he employed a string galvanometer, and recorded its movements on a travelling photographic plate, on which, too, ordinates and abscissas, representing electric potential and fractions of a second respectively, were also represented. He thus obtained tracings which he called electro-cardiograms, or, when the galvanometer was at a distance from the patient (in the physiological laboratory) and connected with him by a long stretch of wire, " telelectro- cardiograms." The tracings obtained differ from those got by other means, and for a full account of these the original must be referred to. Briefly, they show five oscillations, of which the first is auricular, the remainder being due to contractions of the ventricles. The curves vary according to the state of the ventricles : thus in hypertrophy of the right ventricle the upward wave is exaggerated ; in hypertrophy of the left ventricle, the downward wave is increased. Extra-systoles yield a typical curve. In heart-block the dissociation of auricular and ventricular movements is well brought out. The a-v interval in electro-cardio- grams is about "175 sec. Ortho-Diagraphy of the Heart.—The difficulty and uncertainty of exactly determining the size of the heart by percussion is well known. In ordinary skiagrams, and in using the fluorescent screen, the angle at which the rays are pro- jected renders it impossible to record oi' observe the dimensions of the organ accurately, but by an apparatus known as the ortho-diagraph, it is claimed that an absolutely faithful outline of the heart can be traced. As a special and rather cumbrous appliance is required it is sufficient to describe the principle underlying the ortho-diagraph. In the ordinary use of X-rays a magnified and distorted image of the heart is projected on the plate or screen. If, however, instead of using the divergent rays from the tube, only one ray, namely, that which is perpendicular to the plane of projection, is used, and if means be provided to conduct this ray round the object (the ray always being kept perpendicular) it is apparent that a true, non-magnified, shadow will be cast. This end is attained as follows :— A fluorescent screen and an X-ray tube are fixed to two parallel metal arms rigidly united to one another. The distance between the arms is such that the thorax can be inter- posed. The fluorescent screen is perpendicular to the central ray of the tube, and projecting through the screen is a pencil so adjusted as to lie accurately in the axis of the central ray. The whole arrangement is counterpoised on a framework, and is readily movable in all directions. The patient is seated between the tube and screen, on which the shadow of the heart is thrown. The outline of the shadow is iiOAV traced on the thorax or on a sheet of paper with the pencil, and as in doing this the observer only utilises the central ray which falls on the point of the pencil, and which moA^es with the movements of the latter, a true outline of the heart is obtained. The ortho- diagraph was devised by Professor Moritz, and Levy-Dorn's pattern is that generally employed. Freund states that in ortho-diagrams the heart of an individual remains of constant size under different conditions of rest and exercise. It enlarges under the influence of diphtheria toxin. Dilated hearts are not reduced by baths, but may become normal under the action of digitalis. LITERATURE.—Graphic Methods.—Jas. Mac- kenzie, The Diseases of the Heart (London), 1908 ; "The Ink Polygraph," Brit. Med. Journ., i. p. 1411, 1908.—Lewis, " The Normal Venous Pulse," Brit. Med. Journ., ii. p. 1482, 1908. Electro-Cardiograms.— G. A. Gibson, Brit. Med. Journ., 7th July 1906.— Einthoven, Arch, neerl.^d. sc. exactis, ser. 2, tome xi. (Haarlem), 1906. — Kkaus and Nicolai, Berl. klin. Wochensch., 24th June and 1st July 1907. Oetho- Diageaphy. —Franze, Edin. Med. Journ., March 1906. —Freund, Wien. klin.-ther. Wochensch., 22nd July 1906. Recent Anatomical and Physiological Work.—Of the two opposing theories of the cause of the beat of the heart—the myogenic and the neurogenic—the former is that which is most widely held at present. According to the myogenic theory, the contractions of the heart are automatic, and do not depend on nervous stimuli. During the past four or five years, however, the neurogenic theory has