68 BIER'S METHOD OF TREATMENT BY HYPEREMIA same extent as was formerly practised. In addi- tion to the more speedy cure that is obtained as a result of the hyperiemia induced l)y the suction- glass, there is still another great advantage which its use possesses in the case of puerperal mastitis, and that is that the negative pressure within the glass exhausts the breast of milk, and thus relieves the pain and discomfort which the patient feels, and at the same time permits of the child being nursed from the other breast. In cai'rying out Bier's treatment in cases of mastitis, the general rules followed are similar to those already described in connection with the use of the suction-cup. It is advisable that a series of large bell jars be available, so that one can be chosen which accurately and comfortably fits the contour of the breast to be treated. The rim of the glass having been anointed with steiilised vaseline, it is applied to the breast, and a negative pressure is pro- duced within the chamber by slowly rarefying the air by means of an exhaust-pump. Suction must be slowly produced; it must never cause pain, and never be so severe as to produce any subcutaneous ecchymosis. Inteimittent applica- tions, over a period of three-quarters of an hour or so, are practised. Where a definite abscess is formed, this is to be treated by incision. It will be found that a local anaesthetic is all that is i-equired in this case. No drainage-tube need be introduced, as the suction-glass will be found to lead to a free discharge of any retained pus. In some cases it is seen that, after the original focus of infection is healed, another forms at the periphery of it. When this is the case, the line of treatment is similar to that already described. Arthritis.—Many infective lesions of joints may be treated by passive or active hypersemia. Gonorrhoeal arthritis is especially suitable for Bier's treatment. In the acute variety, it will be found that the induction of passive con- gestion by using Bier's Ijandage is often attended with astonishing relief of pain, and a marked improvement in the patient's health. When combined with treatment of the local lesion from which the organism has passed into the blood-stream, a speedy cure is often obtained. In a case which has passed from the acute stage into a more chronic phase, it will be found advisable to substitute active arterial hyperemia by hot air for passive congestion. How this is carried out has already been described. It has the advantage that it per- mits the absorption of the exudate that persists within the joint cavity. It allows of move- ments of the joint being practised to prevent the formation of adhesions and development of a stiff joint. Chronic Arthritis. — Tuberculous Synovitis.— Tuberculous synovitis and tuberculous arthritis can well be treated by passive congestion. Passive congestion was practised in the treat- ment of tuberculous lesions long before it was used in cases of more acute infections. The method that is now more generally adopted is where the rubber bandage is used to induce hyperffimia. In the early stage of chronic tuberculous synovitis, with thickening of the synovial membrane, and the commencing " gelatinous" degeneration of the joint, the treatment is found to be of especial value. It has the advantage over arthrectomy or erasion that in many cases a cure will be obtained with comparatively little stiffness of the joint. It must, however, be borne in mind that the progress will be slow and tedious. It is a treatment that must extend over several months, if it is to be attended with beneficial eflFect. It can, however, be practised by one who is still capable of partial employment; as all that is necessary is that the bandage be applied for one hour night and morning. In the severer cases it is advisable that local rest of the joint be obtained by the use of a splint. These are a few of the lesions which are particularly suitable for treatment by Bier's method. It will, however, be obvious that the principle underlying the treatment is such as to render it capable of application to an in- fective lesion, wherever that may be situated. The only difficulty that presents itself is the technical one of applying the treatment in certain situations of the body. In virtually all of these cases, however, this can be overcome l)y using specially devised apparatus. Bilein.—The name of a proprietary pre- paration containing a mixture of the essential salts of the bile. See Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc., liii. p. 2101, 1909. Biobla.StS.—The granules found in the cell substance, regarded by some {e.g. Altmann) as the fundamental elements in cell activity. Biophore.—Literally something which bears life, which carries the vital properties, and, according to some, the ultimate molecule possessed of the properties essential to life. It has been called a hiogen (Verworn) or a Uont (Rubner). For a resume of the biophoric hypothesis in enzyme action, etc., see Adami, Fathology, i. p. 156. BiotripSiS. — By this term (literally, "life-wear," Gr. /3tos, life, rplxpi'i, a rubbing) Mr. Cheatle {Bnt. Med. Journ., i. for 1909, p. 1411) would designate the wear and tear effects of life visible, especially on the skin in exposed situations (back of the hands, the temples, and the forehead, etc.), in old people. The skin becomes "shiny, smooth, thin, in- elastic, pigmented, and apparently scarred." The condition " resembles the bronzing of skin which has been subjected to prolonged ex- posure to the X-rays," and the parts which