SPONDYLOSE RHIZOMELIQUE 346 ribs, leading to flattening of the chest and an abdominal type of respiration. The lesions resemble those of osteo-arthritis. There is no affection of the cord. In another form of spinal rigidity, previously described by Bechterew, the ankylosis is limited to the upper part of the vertebral column, and there is thickening of the cervico-dorsal meninges, causing atrophy of the spinal ganglia and degeneration of the nerve roots and posterior columns. The onset of this type is sudden; there is a hereditary predisposition, and often a trauma. For these reasons it is known as Bechterew's heredo- traumatic kyphosis. In addition to the spinal rigidity it is characterised by the existence of nervous symptoms—pain, parsesthesise, a wasting of muscles. Bechtei'ew regai'ds the cord lesion as the primary event. There is much reason to doubt whether the two types sketched above are really so distinct from each other as to justify their description under separate names. Mixed forms have been described by Gordon and others—e.g. rigidity of the entire spine with joint involvement plus signs of cord lesion. Hunter recognises four groups of cases of rigidity of the spine (spondy- losis). 1. Rheumatoid arthritis, in which there is ankylosis of other joints with osteophytes, generalised atrophy of muscles, fibrillary twitch- ing, and sensory disturbance—in short, the features characteristic of rheumatoid arthritis. The onset is gradual; the disease begins either in the limb or spine. 2. Spondylosis following repeated attacks of rheumatism, or gonorrhoea. The spine is rigid; the ankylosis of the joints elsewhere is fibrous rather than osseous ; there are no osteophytes (Marie's type). 3. Cases arising from a trauma, such as a fall on the buttocks or shoulder. There is no evidence of direct injury to the spine at the time of the accident, but some weeks later ankylosis begins (Bechterew's type). 4. Senile ankylosis in old people whose occupations have necessitated much stooping. A. E. Garrod doubts whether the several types described should be classed as separate maladies. He gives considerable promi- nence to the nerve-root symptoms in the clinical picture of the disease, but states that the manner in which pressure on the roots occurs requires further elucidation. REFERENCES.—Gordon, Med. Rec. (New York), 13th Feb. 1904.—Hunter, Glasgow Med. Journ., March 1907.—A. E. Garrod, Allbutt, and Rol'leston's System of Medicine, 2nd ed., vol. iii. 1907.—Marie, Nouvelle Icon. Salpetrih'c, i. p. 32, 190(5. Spondylotherapy. — See Abrams's Heart Reflex. Sporotrichosis.—A disease due to the fungus sporotrichum, described bj' de Beurmann in 1903; it is said to produce a great number of cutaneous lesions (resembling those of syphilis and tuberculosis), and may affect also the in- ternal organs (larynx, bones, joints) ; Bloch has obtained a cutaneous sporotrichin reaction {Beihfte. z. med. Klin., v. p. 179, 1909). Sporozoa..—See Protozoa. Stage-Decompression.—'S'ee Cais- son Disease. Staiagrnometer.—An instrument for counting drops. See Cancer {Cancer Re- actions). Standard Liquid Malt Ex- tract.—A proprietary food preparation, re- commended in doses of two teaspoonfuls twice or thrice daily, in the conditions for which malt extract is usually prescribed. See analysis in Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1909, p. 1478. SterCObilin.—The principal pigment of the fajces, probably identical with urobilin. Stereotypism.—See Dementia Pre- cox. Sterilisation, Sexual.—^^ee De- generates, Sterilisation of. Still's Disease.—A variety of arthritis deformans in children, differentiated by G. F. Still; the condition of the joints (resembling rheumatoid arthritis) is associated with enlarge- ment of the lymph glands and spleen. Stomach, Acute Dilatation o-f the.—Acute dilatation of the stomach is a rare occurrence. It has been ascribed to sudden paralysis of the vagus, but is probably in most cases due to obstruction of the duodenum, and a knowledge of the mechanism by which it is brought about is important, because if the condition is properly treated many cases which would otherwise die may recover completely. The symptoms of acute dilatation are sudden vomiting accompanied by intense pain, marked abdominal distension, chiefly in the epigastric region, and collapse. The vomit is copious, and usually bile-stained, seldom feculent. There may be splashing sounds in the epigastrium, but visible peristalsis is rare. Death occurs in from a few hours to two days unless the condi- tion is relieved. In a series of 102 cases collected by Conner the mortality was over 70 per cent. Acute dilatation is favoured by several groups of antecedent circumstances:— (1) Operations (not necessarily abdominal) under general anaesthesia. (2) Wasting diseases, or convalescence from an acute illness. (3) Injuries of the spine. (4) Excess in eating or drinking, especially copious draughts of cold fluids. (5) Spinal deformities. It some-