RONTGEN" RAYS the rate of 20,000 miles a second. They have little penetrative power, being checked by a plate of aluminium '05 mm. thick, or a sheet of mica. They are slightly deflected in a magnetic field. The /3 rays are also material; they are only i^Vir ^^^^ " particles, are negatively charged with electricity, and travel at the rate of 1,000,000 miles a second. Their penetration is a hundred times as great as that of the a rays; they will pass through 5 mm. of aluminium, or 1 cm. of lead. They are readily deflected in the magnetic field. The gamma lays are not material; they carry no electric charge, and are consequently not deflected in a magnetic field. Their velocity is enormous, being about that of light, and their penetrating power is very great—10,000 times that of the a rays. They pass through 50 cm. of aluminium, or one inch of steel. Rutherford and Soddy have shown that the a rays are, if not identical with helium, at least very closely related to that element. Their equivalent rays in the Crookes's tube are the " di-cathode rays," i.e. the streams of light which pass back when holes are made in the cathode. The /3 rays are identical with the cathodal rays of a Crookes's tube, and the y rays nearly resemble the X-rays produced by a high vacuum tube. Thus the processes taking place in a particle of radium are very complicated. "In a compound of radium there occurs a rapid expulsion of a and j8 particles, accompanied by the generation of the 7 rays [for y rays are dependent on /3 rays, just as the X-rays depend on the cathodal rays], a rapid emission of heat, the continuous formation of an emanation or gas, and the formation of an active deposit which gives rise to ' excited ' activity " (Rutherford). The most feasible explanation of these phenomena is afforded by the " disintegration theory" of Rutherford and Soddy. "It is supposed that the atoms of the radio-active substances are unstable, and that a certain fixed proportion of them become unstable every second, and break up with explosive violence, accompanied in general by the expulsion of an a or (3 particle, or both together. The residue of the atom, in consequence of the loss of an a particle, is lighter than before, and becomes the atom of a new substance, quite distinct in chemical and physical properties from its parent." The emanation is, as Rutherford says, the concentrated essence of the radio-activity of radium ; and is about 100,000 times as radio- active as radium. In a dry atmosphere radium emits very little emanation; the emanation is stored up in the mass of the radium bromide or chloride, but is released by heat or solution. It behaves like a heavy gas, but is not perma- nent, and undergoes disintegration with the further expulsion of a particles and their deposit on suiTOunding bodies. Its transformation is accompanied by an enormous evolution of heat; AND RADIUM 327 1 c.c. would probably at once melt down a glass tube containing it. Radium which has been freed from emanation and the active deposit by heat or solution, suff"ers great diminution in its activity and emits only a rays. It recovers, however, as more emanation is produced and stored up in its mass. As has been said, bodies which come in contact with the emanation become temporarily radio-active. Medical Uses of Radium.—On the whole, the medical uses of radium are not very dissimilar to those of the X-rays. As radium is usually applied in a capsule protected by a mica shield, it seems impossible that the a rays have anything to do with its action. MTntyre, writing in 1903, expresses the opinion that its great activity was due to the /3 rays, seeing that the y rays were present in such small amount as compared with the X-rays given off by a Crookes's tube. In a recent address Treves alludes to the necessity of further experiments with the view of ascertaining which radiations ought to be employed in different conditions, and quotes the favourable results obtained by Dominici using long exposures to the ultra-gamma rays. The diff'erent rays can, of course, be cut off by suitable thickness of screen. Radium can, of course, be used to take skiagrams, but its cost, and the small quantities in which it is procurable, militate against this use of it. Physiological Effects.—Exposure to radium causes dermatitis, which may go on to in- tractable ulceration. A latent period of 8 to 10 days elapses before these eff'ects are produced. Application of radium of 1,000,000 strength for 3 hours will cause dermatitis; for 10 hours, ulceration. When radium is brought near the closed eye, and even, in some cases, near a blind eye, a sensation of light is pro- duced ; this is due to fluorescence of the ocular media. Radium is inimical to animal life. The introduction of a tube containing 1 mg. of radium bromide under the skin of a mouse causes convulsions, paralysis, and death. After prolonged exposure the growth of tadpoles is checked, seeds fail to germinate, and other larval forms of life lose their power of develop- ment. The radiations are said to inhibit the growth of some bacteria, and to kill others. Their bactericidal power, however, is feeble : three days' exposure to 25 mg. radium is required to destroy the germs of anthrax, cholera, and typhoid. Attempts to sterilise milk in this way have failed. It should be noted that the action is greatest in young forms—a fact which may be related to the rather selective effect of the rays on cancer cells. Thies found that the rays affect all animal tissues, the adenoid tissues and skin being most susceptible. The epidermis dies, or, under certain circumstances, undergoes