333 SENSATION The following scheme represents what occurs :— AFFERENT IMPULSES IN Peripheral Nerves. Spinal Cord. Muscular and Ar- ticular Nerves. g PRESSURE. ( g DEEP PAIN. =^ POSITION. Pi PRESSURE. LIGHT TOUCH. CUTANEO US LOCALISA TION. 11 -J I t3 \ Opposite side of * ( Cord. Afferent Branches of a Posterior. Root (unit of supply). HEAT AND COLD. SUPERFICIAL PAIN. r . LIGHT TOUCH. Peripheral neous (unit of ply). Cuta- Nerve, sup- HEAT AND COLD. WARMTH AND COOLNESS, 6^ DEEP PAIN. CUTANEOUS LOCALISATION. SUPERFICIAL PAIN. I ^ DISCRIMINATION OF POINTS. WARMTH AND COOLNESS. POSITION. DISCRIMINATION OF POINTS. ^1 o I Opposite side of JJ Cord. Posterior Columns of same side of Cord. For a detailed proof of the accuracy of these statements, Dr. Head's original observation must be referred to. In general terms, he finds that a cord lesion which abolishes pain, abolishes it entirely—we never have cutaneous analgesia with retention of pain on deep pressure, as occurs when a peripheral nerve is divided. Similarly, when from a cord lesion sensibility to light touch is destroyed so also is sensibility to deep touch ; when the temperature sense is affected, both moderate warmth and coolness, and extremes of temperature, fail of recogni- tion. Further, the loss of sense of position goes hand in hand with the loss of power to discriminate between adjacent points. The impulses which recombine—thermal, pain- ful, tactile—cross to the opposite side of the cord ; the impulses we have grouped as "spacial"— position and tactile discrimination—are less closely related, and do not cross in the cord, but pass up on the long extrinsic fibres of the homolateral posterior columns. Some, or all, ultimately cross at the level of the nucleus gracilis and nucleus cuneatus, but it may be that those which subserve equilibration, and do not overstep the threshold of con- sciousness, enter the same side of the cerebellum without ever undergoing decussation. REFERENCES.—Head, Brain, No. 110, 1905; ibid., No. 116, 1907. Serotherapy.—Under the general head of sero-therapeutics we include (1) treatment of disease by vaccines, and (2) treatment of disease by serums proper. Vaccines.—The use of vaccines in the treat- ment of bacterial infections is more general in this country than on the Continent. This is due to the fact that we owe the introduction of vaccines largely to Sir A. E. Wright and his collaborators. In the early days of vaccine therapeutics the estimation of the opsonic index was looked upon as an almost essential ante- cedent to treatment, and was regarded as a very important, if not indispensable means of con- trolling the use of vaccines. Now, however, the estimation of the opsonic index has (almost of necessity, on account of its laborious nature) fallen into the background, while vaccines have come to occupy a correspondingly more promi- ment place in the esteem of the profession. The fact may be insisted on once and for all that the merits of opsonic determinations and the merits of vaccine therapeutics are quite independent of one another. Whether the former stand or fall, the test of the value of the latter will be their effect on disease, apart from their relation to the opsonic index. A vaccine is a suspension or emulsion of dead bacteria, and contains the intracellular toxines of the micro-organism. Such a vaccine may be prepared from a culture made from the organism infecting the patient whom it is de- sired to treat—an "autogenous " vaccine ; or it may have been prepared from another strain,