278 NERVES, SURGERY OF {Lancet, 2nd April 1910). With a more exact knowledge of the minute anatomy of the peri- pheral nerves—i.e. the topography of the bundles of fibres in their trunks going to different muscles and groups of muscles, the study of which has been undertaken by Stoffel {Deuts. Zeitschrift f. Orthopmd. Chir., Bd. xxv.), the possibilities of good results being obtained will probably be increased, and nerve anasto- mosis %vill possibly become a less random, more precise, procedure. Neurinoma,. — Neuro-fibroma, moll- uscum fibrosum, or Recklinghausen's disease. See Adami, Pathology, i. pp. 758-761, 1910. Neuroprin. — An extract of nervous tissue, recommended as a specific nerve tonic in epilepsy, neurasthenia, Graves's disease ; it has been suggested as a substitute for the bromides (G. Roasenda, Gazz. d. osp., xxx. p. 217, 1909). Neutra.ion.—A new preparation recom- mended in such diseases of the stomach as hyperacidity, nervous irritation, and ulceration ; it is described as a silicate of aluminium which dissolves in hydrochloric acid with the for- mation of chloride of aluminium and free silicic acid; it is stated to be free from toxic action, and to act by adhering to the walls of the stomach {e.g. in haemorrhage from a gastric ulcer). See note in Lancet, i. for 1910, p. 73. New Sidona,!.—A substance introduced in place of sidonal (quinate of piperazine), because of its less costly nature, but it is anhydride of quinic acid and not a piperazine compound. See Fortescue-Brickdale, Newer Remedies, p. 102, 1910. New Urotropin.—A combination of urotropin with anhydro-methylene citric acid; helmitol or formamol. Nitze Cystoscope.—See Bladder, Female {Examination). Nocht'S stain.—A staining reagent for malarial organisms consisting of eosin solu- tion and polychrome methylene blue. Nodal Rhytiinn.—S'ee Heart, Dis- eases OF {Irregular Action). Normocyte. — The normal red blood corpuscle of human blood. Nourry's iodinated Wine.— A proprietary tonic wine described as rich in iodine, this being "chemically combined with tannin in an almost tasteless compound"; an analysis is given in the Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1909, p. 1308. Nuclease.—A ferment or enzyme which causes disintegration of nucleo-proteids and the liberation of purin bases. Nucleinic or Nucleic Acid.—One of the intermediate stages in the conversion of nucleo-proteid by digestion into phosphoric acid, purin bases, and pyrimidin bases ; nucleo- proteid yields (on digestion with HCl and pepsin) nuclein and protein, and the former (on tryptic digestion) yields nucleic acid and protein; its chief pharmacological effect is to produce leucocytosis like yeast. See Fortescue- Brickdale, Newer Remedies, pp. 56-57, 1910. Nucleol.—A preparation of nuclein got from yeast. Nucleo-proteins.—Compounds of one or more protein molecules with nucleic acid, which enter largely into the composition of the nucleus. Nucleotin Phosphoric Acid.—A reputed uric acid solvent known also as solurol. Nut Bromose.—A proprietary food preparation described as a pre-digested food, and an analysis of it is given in the Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1910, p. 1241. Nycturia.—That morbid condition of the urine when the amount passed at night exceeds that of the day; it is present in dropsical conditions of renal, cardiac, or hepatic origin. Oatmeal Cure.—See Acidosis {Thera- peutics); Diet {von Noordens Oatmeal Cure). Ochronosis. — This extremely rare disease was first described by Virchow in 1866, but comparatively little had been added to our knowledge of it until 1906. Ochronosis is a condition of widely diffused melanotic pigmentation, the cartilaginous and fibrous structures throughout the body being chiefly aff'eeted. It does not seem to occur in persons under middle age, and is not in itself a fatal malady. According to Osier the patients usually seek medical aid on account of pigment- ation, of passing discoloured urine, or of arthritis, hence the disorder may be described under these three heads. 1. Pigmentation. During life the pigmentation is usually most evident in the sclerotics and ears ; sometimes it also affects the hands, especially about the knuckles, and the skin of the face. Apparently there is less tendency for covered parts of the skin to suffer. The pigmentation differs from that of Addison's disease and argyria ; it