TUBERCULOSIS 376 Congress he reported on statistics up to date; the later figures substantiated the earlier ones. Harbitz of Christiania found that in 177 autop- sies in children under 15 years there was a primary abdominal infection in 22 per cent. Calmette's work points to the alimentary canal •as being a very important point of entry of the bacillus. His conclusions run as follows {Raw) :— 1. Animals readily contract tuberculosis by way of the intestine, not only in youth, but also during adult life, without the passage of the bacilli through the walls of the digestive tube being marked by any visible lesions. 2. In the case of young animals bacilli are ordinarily retained by the mesenteric glands. Sometimes the infection remains localised there for a longer or shorter period, and is in the end cured ; sometimes it ends in the formation of caseous tubercles, and is then propagated by the efferent lymphatics to the major lymph- atic circulation. 3. In the case of adult animals whose defen- sive glandular reaction is much less active, the bacilli are more generally carried, with the leucocytes containing them, into the major lymphatic circulation and by way of the pulmonary artery towards the lung. 4. The so-called primary pulmonary tuber- culosis is generally intestinal in origin. 5. Finally, of all methods of infection, that by way of the digestive canal is at once the most efficacious, and that which best agrees with the normal conditions of natural infection. Despite the contrary opinions held by a few authorities {e.g. Holt and Coutts) there is at present a tendency to admit that alimentary infection plays an important part in causing the disease, and one cannot escape from the idea that this tendency is associated with the great interest which has recently been taken in tuberculosis in children. Only in late years has the great frequency of tuberculosis in infancy and childhood been properly realised. It is unnecessary to labour this point, but the following statistics, compiled by Dunn, may be quoted. They are based on post-mortem examinations. Age. Percentage of Cases of Tuberculosis. 0- 3 months . 0 per cent.- 2 per cent 4- 6 „ . 16 -17 „ 7-12 „ 22 -26 „ 1- 2 years . 42 -44 2-10 „ . 67 10-15 „ . 64 -77 ,, Infantile tuberculosis is essentially a disease of the lymphatic organs ; the bacilli do not, as a rule, cause a demonstrable primary lesion of the skin or mucous membrane, but localise themselves in a gland and set up a chronic process there. The spread is by lymphatics; sometimes there is a general miliary tubercu- losis. The younger the child, the less the tendency to cure; if a definite tuberculous lesion is clinically demonstrated during the first year the prospect of recovery is small. Behring's theory has most of its supporters among those who have studied diseases of children—Schlossmann, for instance, thinks it is the most important advance made since Koch's discovery of the bacillus. An interesting point in connection with tuber- culosis in childhood is the relative frequency of abdominal tuberculosis in different countries. The disease is apparently much less common in America and Germany than in Great Britain ; it is particularly common in Edinburgh and Glasgow. Drs. Thomson and Fordyce have collected statistics from a great number of hospitals bearing on this point. In Edinburgh and Glasgow the proportion of clinical abdom- inal tuberculosis among in-patients is 3'6 per cent, and 4 6 per cent, respectively, as against 1 '8 per cent, in London (Great Ormond Street). In the United States it is under -5 per cent., and in all the Continental hospitals which fur- nished statistics, except Buda-Pesth (2 per cent.), it is under 1 per cent. In Great Britain abdominal tuberculosis is more common among hospital in-patients than tuberculous menin- gitis ; in Germany and America the reverse is the case. It is impossible to say on what these varia- tions depend. The ol)vious suggestion that they may be related to infection with tuber- culous milk is fraught with difficulties. It is plausible enough to suppose that in Great Britain sterilisation of milk is less carefully attended to than in Germany, France, and America, but a great deal of comparative in- quiry into the details of artificial feeding as practised in these countries is required before this point can be settled. Coutts points out that were milk a frequent source of infection abdominal tuberculosis would be extremely common, instead of rare, during the first year of life. He states that it has never been proved that the complaint is more common in hand-fed children than in those which are suckled, further than the more frequent occur- rence of chronic intestinal disorders in the former would account for. In Rome the death- rate among children under 15 from tuber- culous meningitis (1896-1905) was 4-7 per cent. ; from tuberculous peritonitis, 3'0 per cent. ; yet in Italy, among the poorer classes, artificial feeding of infants is almost never resorted to. In Japan, where cow's milk is not used, tuber- culosis is said to be extremely common. One strong argument in favour of milk-borne infec- tion being associated with these variations in the frequency of abdominal tuberculosis is furnished by the United States. There, the necessity of a clean milk has been more strongly urged than in any other country, and there