VAEICOSE VEINS 396 (New York Med. Journ., 27th July 1907), finding that in Keller's operation the vein often gives way, operates with a special vein- extractor consisting of a flexible copper rod about two feet long with an acorn head at either end. He incises the upper part of the saphenous vein, and passes the extractor as far down the lumen as possible. The proximal end of the vein is then tied, and the distal end is firmly ligatured round the extractor, and a second incision is made on the lower end of the instrument. The vein is divided here, and its distal end tied. Firm downwai'd traction is then made on the extractor, withdrawing it from the lower wound with the vein massed against the upper acorn head. The procedure may be repeated if a long enough piece of vein is not removed on the first occasion, or if there is more than one large varicose vein. If there a,re numerous varicose superficial veins as well as the large trunks, Schede's operation may also require to be performed. VasOCOnstrictine.—A trade name for adreiiin or the active principle of the supra- renal capsule. Vasotonin.—A compound consisting of urethane and yohimbine, which decreases blood pressure, and has been recommended in cases of hypertension due to arterio-sclerosis, etc. Vaso-vesiculectomy.—Removal of the vas deferens and vesicula seminalis. "Veda" Bread.—A proprietary food preparation, being a brown bread in which half the dry substance consists of soluble matter. ,S'ee Report in Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1910, p. 201. Vein Anaestliesia {see also Anes- thesia ( Venonti)).—A method of producing local auiBsthesia introduced by Bier, in which the limb is first rendered quite anaemic by con- stricting Esmarch bandages; then 80 to 100 c.c. of a 0'5 per cent, solution of novocaine in physiological .salt solution is injected towards the periphery into an empty vein in the area ])etween the constricting bandages ; after the operation the vein is washed out with normal saline. See Fortescue-Brickdale, Newer Remedies, p. 184, 1910; A. Bier, Berl. klin. Wochnschr.,:AV\. pp. 477-489, 1909; Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1909, p. 810. Venesection. — In the Encyclopedia und Dictiondry (Vol. X. p. 432) the sentence occurs :—Venesection " is now comparatively rarely used, but there are good reasons for believing that it is a valuable therapeutic measure, and that its judicious use at the present day would be beneficial." The forecast here made has to some extent been fulfilled, and the procedure is certainly more commonly employed than it was twenty or even ten years ago, although venesection does not appear in the index to Treves and Hutchinson's Manual of Operative Surgery. The technique of the operation has shared in the general change due to the introduction of the aseptic principle, and the preparation of the skin covering the vein should follow the lines laid down under the sterilisation of the operation area in the article on Surgery, Asepsis (p. 350). The preparatory painting with tincture of iodine has been found satis- factory. Infection of a venesection wound is one of the rarest occurrences, but it is not unknown ; care, therefore, must be taken that the knife used is sterile; if the abstraction of the blood is to be followed by transfusion of saline fluid directly into the vein, then the precautions must be all the more rigidly ad- hered to, and it will be well for the operator to dissect out and isolate the vein before he opens into it. The indications for venesection given in the Encyclopedia and Dictionary {loc. cit.) have been confirmed of recent years ; and its value in dilated right heart due to mitral disease or as a result of pneumonia or bronchitis, as well as in puerperal eclampsia (Ballantyne, Journ. Obstet. and Gyncec. Brit. Emp., xviii. p. 378, 1910) and septicaemia has been established. Hall White {Clin. Journ., xxxiii. pp. 385-391, 1909) has defined the circumstances specially requiring phlebotomy; in mitral disease when the breathing is difficult, hurried, distressful, when there is lividity of lips, ears, nose, and fingers, when the pulse is small (indicating that the blood is being retained in the veins), venesection not only relieves the symptoms but often enables digitalis which has so far been without eflect to begin to act; when the same symptoms are due to bronchitis it may save a life, and in some (not all) cases of pneumonia; in a few instances of cerebral haemorrhage where the patient is livid it may be used with care, and in epilepsy it often " acts like a charm " ; in uraemia and puerperal eclampsia, especially if there be a high tension pulse and frequent convulsions, bleeding is a suitable measure, acting probably by diminish- ing the toxic material in the system ; and the pain from thoracic aneurism, often agonising, may be temporarily relieved by it. 0. Bur- winkel {Med. Klinik, Jahrg., vi. p. 748, 1910) recommends the performance of venesection in yet other conditions, viz. acute articular rheumatism, migraine, gout, furunculosis, chlorosis, and migraine, and sees a possible sphere of usefulness in its repeated employ- ment to prevent arterio-sclei'osis and premature senility. Hale White {loc. cit.) is opposed to bleeding to reduce a high temperature, and it