56 BIER'S METHOD OF TREATMENT BY HYPEREMIA recommended that the inequality of the surface be overcome by surrounding the rim of the bell with a ring of sterile plasticine. When properly applied, the application should be absolutely painless; there should be no interruption of circulation. The length of time during which the suction- glass should be applied will vary with different individual cases. Bier would recommend that they be applied six times during the day, for five minutes each time, an interval of three minutes or so being allowed between each indi- vidual application. It will thus be seen that the time occupied is at the most three-quarters of an hour each day. In some cases, where the degree of suction is not great, a more lengthy application will be found to be well borne, and produce a good result. It is to be remembered, however, that any oedema and hypersemia that may have resulted must be allowed to disappear befoie bell be again applied. Active Hypercemia by the Use of Hot Air.—As has already been mentioned, the application of hot air to a part induces an active or arterial hyperaemia. Where dry, hot air is used, a very high temperature can be comfortably borne. The class of cases for which this treatment is especially useful is where a more chronic lesion is being treated; where, for example, chronic exudate or organising adhesions are present inside a joint. The methods that are adopted in applying hot air to a part are, firstly, by means of the hot air chamber ; secondly, by using the hot air douche. In order to carry out either of these means, very simple contrivances may be fitted up. In the case of the former, the treat- ment may be carried out by simply surrounding the part to be treated with electric lamps, such as are used for ordinary purposes of illumina- tion. These are placed at a distance where a comfortable degree of heat will radiate on to the limb, and are covered with blankets laid over an ordinary "cage." If a more elaborate ap- pliance is desired, this can be made with a wooden box, into which the limb is placed, and into which also a funnel passes, which is con- nected with a source of heat, such as an ordinary gas flame. Whichever method is adopted, it is essential that great care be taken to avoid burning the limb. This warning is necessary, as when the temperature is gradually raised, a degree of heat may be obtained that is borne comfortably by the patient, but which will be found aftei'wards to have caused a burn of the second degree. Details in the Treatment of Special Cases by Means of Hyperemia. The Use of Passive Congestion as a Prophylactic in Recent Wounds.—Bier's treatment has un- doubtedly proved of great value in cases of recent severe lacerated wounds. Such statistics as are available would appear to demonstrate that, where this treatment has been adopted, suppuration has occurred less frequently, and healing has taken place more rapidly. The class of case in which it is of especial value is one that is very commonly met with in any large industrial centre. It is that of the adult of the labouring class who has received a severe wound of a limb, into which dirt has been ground. This class of case is one which has always taxed the resources of the medical man, as the difficulty has been to cleanse the part thoroughly, and to prevent the development of widespread suppuration. Where Bier's treat- ment is to be used, it is recommended that it be instituted immediately the patient comes under treatment. It is applied by means of the rubber bandage, which is worn for the usual period of twenty to twenty-two hours. The maimed limb is cleansed in the usual way, with this exception, that all powerful chemical antiseptics are carefully prevented from coming in contact with the wounded surface. The wound is simply washed out with an abundant stream of steril- ised physiological salt solution. A simple sterile dressing is then loosely applied to the part. The effect of the application of the bandage in this case is similar to that seen where an infective lesion is being treated. The limb becomes engorged and swollen. A fairly abundant sero- sanguineous discharge takes place from the damaged surface. In this discharge there can often be noticed foreign particles which have been buried in the wound. On the day following the accident, the dis- charge from the wound will probably be serous in nature, and from the appearance which it presents and the state of the patient, the infer- ence is justified that rapid healing without suppuration will take place. It is advisable, however, that Biei''s bandage be used for several days longer. The interval during which it is worn should, however, be reduced in duration. In the class of case where suppuration develops, this will probably be seen to be abundant in amount, but the general effect upon the patient is noticed to be not so severe. Should abscesses form, or cellulitis develop, these are to be treated in the usual way, small incisions being made to allow escape of pus. Compouvd Fractures.—These cases are par- ticularly suitable for treatment by Bier's method. This is carried out by means of the rubber bandage. The advantage of using this method is that limbs may be saved that otherwise might require to be amputated, and aseptic union occurs in a greater number of cases. Acute Infective Abscesses.—Furuncle and Car- buncle.—These lesions are particularly suitable for treatment by Klapp's suction-cups. The individual furuncle, or where multiple foci are present in a case of generalised furunculosis, are treated by applying the suction-cup for five minutes at a time. Six applications are usually