SEROTHERAPY 334 or other strains, of the same species already stored in the laboratory—" stock " vaccine. On the whole, the best results are got by using autogenous vaccines, and for some diseases, e.g. coli infections, a stock A^accine is of little use ; on the other hand, staphylococcal and gono- coccal infections often respond well to stock vaccines. Bosanquet and Eyre lay down the following principles concerning the preparation of vaccines :—(1) Autogenic strains are prefer- able. (2) Cultures must be virulent, and as few removes from the original source as possible. (3) The subculture used to prepare the vaccine must be grown under optimum conditions. (4) The bacilli must be killed with the minimum of heat. (5) The vaccine must be accurately standardised. The actual preparation is, briefly, as follows : —A culture of the organism is made in a suitable medium, and its purity determined. Five c.c. of •! per cent, saline is added to the tube, and the growth is emulsified as thoroughly as possible with a stirring rod. The turbid emulsion is then transferred to a second tube and shaken for a quarter of an hour. The number of bacteria per c.c. is estimated, mixing equal volumes of normal blood and suspension, and staining a smear with .Tenner or Leishman. By enumerating the number of bacteria and red cells respectively present in a series of microscopic fields the ratio of the former to the latter (which number about 5,000,000,000 per c.c.) can be determined, and from this the actual number in the emulsion calculated. Enough salt solution is added to bring the "bacteria down to 100-1000 million per c.c, and the mixture is well shaken. It is then sterilised at the temperature corresponding with the thermal death point of the bacillus for half an Tiour. The sterility is tested by inoculating culture tubes with the vaccine. A small quantity of an antiseptic (5 per cent, carbolic) is added, and the vaccine is then stored in rubber-capped bottles or glass capsules hermeti- cally sealed. Vaccines may be given subcutaneously or Ijy intramuscular injection. Some authorities prefer one, some the other route ; so far as subse- quent discomfort is concerned, it is immaterial which is selected. The oral administration of vaccines, which has been practised by a few, is of very doubtful value. Following upon the administi'ation of a vaccine certain local and general effects are produced. The local reaction varies according to the dose and the amount of endotoxines present. Generally speaking, according to Horder, a mild reaction is aimed at in cases of chronic and local infection but not in cases of acute, generalised infection. A mild reaction is constituted by local tenderness and redness lasting for from 18 to 48 hours after injection. A more marked reaction usually occurs after prophylactic vaccination {e.g. against typhoid) in which large doses are given. The general reaction is evidenced by the alterations on the opsonic power of the blood which ensue, and in some cases by pyrexia and malaise. After inoculation the opsonic index first falls (negative phase), then rises (positive phase) and, after a longer or shorter time, declines again {see Immunity, p. 194). Vaccines may be employed in almost any microbial infection. Hitherto the following are the chief conditions in which they have been found serviceable : — 1. Staphylococcus Infections.—^Here auto- genous vaccines are preferable to " stocks," and if the latter are employed it is desirable to know which A-^ariety of staphylococcus is the infecting agent. Mixed vaccines of staphylo- coccus aureus and albus are said to be of little value. Furunculosis, periostitis, osteomyelitis, pustular acne, otitis media, sycosis, sinuses of all kinds, are among the diseases which have been treated. The method is particularly successful in the case of boils. After vaccina- tion there may be a crop of fresh boils, but these usually abort and have no successors. Dosage.—Bosanquet gives as an average initial dose in a localised suppuration oO millions. Horder, on the other hand, recommends 1000 millions as an initial dose, followed b}- doses of 250-500 millions at intervals of 7-10 days. If relapses occur, it is probably either due to the dose being too small, or to inoculations being too frequent. In generalised infections the doses should be about one-tenth of the above. 2. Streptococcus Infections.—There is much difference of opinion as to the relationship of the various strains of streptococci met with, hence an autogenous vaccine is always to be preferred where possible. Streptococcus vaccines have been used with success in pj^orrhoea alveo- laris, otitis media, suppuration in the nasal sinus, erysipelas, abscesses, and cellulitis. Benefit has also been ascribed to vaccines in cases of septicaemia and ulcerative endocarditis. The doses are smaller than those of staphylo- coccal vaccine, in accordance with the general principle that " the more virulent the micro- organism, and the more acute and generalised the disease process, the smaller should be the dose of the vaccine employed " (Horder). Doses of 5 million may be given in acute cases ; 10 million, increasing to 100 million, in more chronic or localised cases. 3. Pneumococcus Infections. —Vaccines are often useful in furthering the healing of the sinuses left by empyema, and ought to be tried in all cases where favourable progress is not being made. Doses of 10-20 million (autogenous) pneumococci may be given at weekly intervals. Good is said to have followed vaccines in pneumonia, and in acute pneumococcal periton-