16 ACCOUCHEMENT FORC^ plans of artificially enlarging the cervix in labour as its object, took place in 1907 {Brit. Med. Jourrt., ii. for 1907, pp. 426-431); but although many contributions of considerable value were made to the subject on this occasion, it cannot be said that the indications for accouchement force were then agreed upon, nor are they now. There is, however, a general feeling that ceitain grave cases of eclampsia justify the operation. When the cervix is taken up and the os somewhat open the manual and bimanual methods, the use of hydrostatic bags, and even the employment of the Bossi or other metallic dilator are to be recommended ; but when the cervix is not taken up and the OS is closed, vaginal Csesarean section ought to be the operation of election. Grave eclampsia at the sixth month, therefore, may perhaps be regarded as the most undoul)ted indication for vaginal Caesarean section, while the same disease coming on near to full term or in the early stages of labour will call for one or other of the dilating methods. In addition to eclampsia in being, some obstetricians regard the threaten- ing of convulsions as a sufficient indication for accouchement force; but the success of pre- ventive means ought to be taken into considera- tion, and such measures ought at any rate to get a fair trial. Other indications, about which, however, there is no strong consensus of opinion, are accidental haemorrhage (especially the con- cealed variety), some cases of placenta prsevia (when the hydrostatic bags are generally chosen), hyperemesis gravidarum (although the prognosis is very grave), and serious cases of heart disease and of acute cedema of the lungs, which are not beneficially affected by medicinal means. Not only are there marked differences of opinion regarding the justifiability of the opera- tion in these morbid states, but there are also divergent views regarding the methods to be adopted—some obstetricians, for instance, pre- ferring the knife, others always using the fingers, and others favouring the bag or the Bossi dilator. On the whole, the tendency appears to be to restrict accouchement force more and more, and to limit especially the use of metallic dilators of the Bossi type. Of the various METHODS proposed for the performance of accouchement force, we may refer first to manual or bimanual dilatation of the cervix. Harris {Surg. Gynec. and Obstet., iii. p. 79, 1906) strongly supports the manual method, but points out that it is not suitable in cases of cervical cancer or when there is much cicatricial tissue in the cervix (previous lacerations). The patient is put under an anaesthetic, the rectum having been thoroughly emptied. The operator wears rubber gloves, and the patient's external parts are carefully cleansed. If the cervical canal will admit the index finger up to the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, then dilatation may be at once begun; if not, a metallic dilator must be used until the finger passes in. At first the under finger (flexed) and the tip of the thumb are pushed in; in from five to twenty-five minutes two fingers and the thumb can be got in; with these the cervix is gradually stretched, by expanding the fingers till three fingers and the thumb are within the canal; finally, four fingers and the thumb are introduced, first close together and later expanded, and so the canal is fully dilated in about forty-five minutes. When one hand tires, the other is employed; and great care is taken to keep the gloves aseptic. The bimanual method, as used by Edgar {Practice of Ob.tteirict, p. 925, 1903), is in some respects preferable to the unimanual. It also presupposes sufficient dilatation to admit one finger ; and if this is not present, a metallic dilator or a plug of gauze must be inserted. The index finger of one hand is pushed in, then the corresponding finger of the other hand is introduced, and with the two back to back the cervix is stretched. " The pressure is continued as a sort of eccentric massage, the fingers of the opposite hands always making gentle and steady pressure outward and down- ward, and in opposite directions." The direction of the stretching force should be first antero- posterior, then lateral, and then oblique. When a second finger of each hand can be inserted, the dilatation is further effected until it is complete. The hands should even then be retained for some minutes in the cervix till complete relaxation is obtained. It is claimed for this method that it more closely resembles the natural process, that it keeps the membranes intact and does not interfere with the existing presentation and position of the foetus, that the sense of touch is retained, and that therefore the force used can be better estimated and laceration made less likely, and that, since the manipulation is intra-cervical only, there is less risk of sepsis. Lewis {Surg. Gynec. and Obstef. iii. p. 756, 1906) thinks that this method, when performed under due precautions with educated fingers and without undue roughness or care, should be very useful; and is of opinion that, even if it be performed by one who is inexpert, there will be less risk than if metallic dilators were employed. It does not, however, seem to have been much used; possibly the long and tiring manipulation and the comparative slowness of the manual method have discouraged operators and driven them to instrumental methods. Another plan is by means of hydrostatic bags. The introduction of the inelastic conical bag of Champetier de Ribes and of Pomeroy's new hydrostatic dilator {Surg. Gynec. and Obstet., iii. p. 542, 1906) and others has stimulated fresh interest in this method (originally introduced many years ago by Keiller (1859) and R. Barnes. When the bag is placed in the vagina it is