220 KA.WA composition of gonosan (a remedy for gonor- rhoea). Keiling's Test.—A test for lactic acid in the gastric contents ; it depends upon the canary yellow colour developed when a 10 per cent, solution of ferric chloride has added to it a few drops of filtered gastric juice containing lactic acid. See Webster, Diagnostic Methods, p. 70, 1909. Kellog:g:'s System. — The use of a purin-free diet, as in Battle Creek Sanitorinm ; fruit, nuts, cereals, along with some eggs and dairy produce, are allowed, but no fish, flesh, fowl, tea, coffee, or cocoa. Kephaldol. — An antipyretic of the phenacetin group, said to be a compound of citric and salicylic acids with phenetidin. See Fortescue-Brickdale, Newer Remedies, p. 217, 1910. Kepha,lin.—A lipoid substance obtained from brain substance, described as a phosphorus and nitrogen-containing lipoid or phosphatid, or, more particularly, as a mono-amido-diphos- phatid ; it is closely related to lecithin, and contains two fatty acids, one being unsaturated (kephalic acid), and two bases, one being cholin. KeratOSic Cones.—Horny cones or domes developing on the skin of the hands, feet, and other parts ; it is said to be very rare, and only met with in association with gonorrhoeal arthritis. See A. W. Williams, Lancet, ii. for 1910, p. 1769. Ketonuria.—See Acidosis. Kharsin. — A proprietary preparation, described as sodium 3-methyl-4-aminophenyl- arsonate, containing 23-7 per cent, of the element arsenium i^Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1909, p. 344 ; Lancet, ii. for 1908, p. 802). KhOOSh Bitters.—A proprietary pre- paration, described as a never-failing appetiser ; an analysis in the British Medical Journal (ii. for 1909, p. 563) shows (in 100 parts) 14-4 parts by measure as alcohol and 0'14 as total solids, whilst the residue resembled that of tincture of quassia. Kidneys, Surg^ery of.—In operations on the kidneys, as for example where nephrec- tomy is in prospect, it is obviously of the first impoi'tance to determine the adequacy of the oi'gans separately. This can only be done by examining the urine from each kidney separately, and the instrument which is used for this purpose is the separator invented by Luys of Paris. The urine separator consists of a catheter composed of three parts—a central supporting piece and two lateral tubes. Over the central portion there is fitted a long slender glove finger of indiarubber. By a simple mechanism this I'ubber sheath can be stretched so as to form a diaphragm filling up the concavity of the terminal curved portion of the separator. In this condition the separator is I'oughly racket-shaped, with an outlet for urine on each side of the flattened part of the racket. The instrument is introduced into the bladder, previously washed out and containing 30-40 c.c. boric lotion, like an ordinary sound. When it is in situ the rubber sheath is stretched, and the resulting diaphragm being grasped by the musculai' walls of the Ijladder forms a septum dividing the viscus into two halves, each communicating with the ureter on the one hand, and with one of the outer tubes of the separator on the other. " A safe index for the proper position of the instrument is given by the manner of the urinary flow from the tubes. Normally, in rhythmical intervals, series of drops are excreted corresponding with the contraction of the ureter and the alter- nating function of the kidneys. If the instru- ment is not properly placed, the urine can either flow in continuous drops, or the tubes excrete nothing, and between them and the separating rubber membrane the urine trickles out" (Lichtenstern). Separation is much simpler than ureteral catheterisation, and does not cause infection of the ureters from the bladder. It can be used when ureteral catheterisation is impossible— e.g. if the ureteral openings ai'e obscured by cystitis, if the rapid flow of pus or blood into the bladder clouds the bladder fluid, or if the ureteral openings cannot be found. In addition to the examination of the urine by the ordinary physical and chemical tests, three main lines of additional research have been employed—(1) cryoscopy; (2) various colour tests; (3) phloridzin test. (1) Cryoscopy is I'eferred to in the Ettcyclopedia and Dic- tionary of Medicine, ii. p. 255, but since 1906, when the article there was written, the method has to a great extent fallen into the background, as it has been found that the information obtainable may be gained by other simpler methods — especially by the estimation of the specific gravity. (2) Chromo- cystoscopy. Twenty cubic centimeti'es of a •4 per cent, solution of indigo carmine are injected into the gluteal muscles. In fifteen to twenty minutes, if the kidneys are normal, the urine is discoloured. If the colour is pale, or its appearance delayed, the kidney is at fault. Indigo carmine is superior to methylene blue, which is employed in the same way. For this test a separator is not required ; the jets of coloured urine from the ureters can be observed by the cystoscope. (3) Phloridzin test. A