190 HYPNOIDAL STATE AND HYPNOIDISATION with ease ; and he has called it the suh-'ivaking or hypnoidal state, naming the induction of it hypnoidisatio7i {Joiirn. Abnorm. Psychol., iv. pp. 151-171, 1909-10, and other references). In this state "consciousness becomes somewhat vaguer than in the waking condition, memory is more diffused, so that experiences apparently long forgotten come in bits and scraps to the foreground of consciousness ; emotional excite- ment subsides, voluntary activity is changed to passivity, and suggestions meet with little resistance." It is a rest-state, one in which there is both mental and physical relaxation, and its depth changes very rapidly, far more so than that of sleep. Sidis {Journ. Ahnorm. Psychol., iii. pp. 63, 170, 1908-9) has shown ex- perimentally that it exists also in animals; and he regards it as " the primitiA'e I'est-state out of which sleep has arisen in the later stages of evolution," as the "primordial sleep- state." There is no very firmly fixed rule for hypnoidisation, the principal object being (again to quote Sidis) " to bring about con- ■ditions of monotony and limitation of volun- tary movements." The patient takes a comfortable position, relaxed and recumbent, and listens to some monotonous sound, e.g. "the buzzing of an inductoriura" ; the most suitalile time is late at night or early in the morning when there is naturally a predis- position to sleep; and additional adjutants may be found in the warm bath and in gentle massage. " When respiration and jjulse become reduced, sensory-motor reaction diminished, sensory hypofesthesia becoming occasionally hypersesthesia, with occasional disturbances of pulse and respiration, with sudden apparently unaccountable starts, with tendencies of reten- tion of position of limbs, and now and then with a slight tendency to resist actively any change of posture of limbs or of body without the actual presence of catalepsy, the whole feeling tone becoming one of acquiescence and indifference, while memory with amnesic gaps begins to find the lost links, and even to become hypermnesic—when we observe all those symptoms we know we have before us the subconscious hypnoidal state" (Boris Sidis). The way in which the hypnoidal state is related to psychotherapy is complex and some- what obscure ; the fact that we can in it get access to subconscious experiences lost to the patient's personal consciousness makes it valuable in tracing the origin and development of the symptoms of the psychopathic malady, but Sidis maintains that this is not in itself a cure, and must be combined with "a systematic €Ourse of direct and indirect suggestion, by mediate associative and immediate associative suggestion, by substitution, disintegration, and synthesis, both in the waking and in the hypnoidal state." In this way the physician can help to transform his patient's mental life. In fact, " the treatment is a highly complex process of disintegration and integration of mental systems " ; and an important element is the access which is " gained through the agency of the hypnoidal state to the stores of potential subconscious reserve energy, which, by a liberation of energy, bring about a reassociation and synthesis of the dissociated mental systems underlying the symptoms of the disease." The tapping, so to speak, of the reserve energy is a vital part of the process of cure, and it is thought that some of the value of the Weir Mitchell rest cure may be derived from an empirical use of the sub-waking hyi3noidal state. In a sentence Sidis affirms that " the hypnoidal state helps us to reach the inaccessible regions of dormant energy, it helps to break down inhibitions, liberate reserve energies, and repair the breaches of mental activity ; the painful systems become dissociated, disintegrated, and again transformed, reformed, and reintegrated into new systems full of energy and joy of life." Freud's method of psychoanalysis may perhaps owe some of its success to hypnoidisation. Instances of mental states treated by hypnoid- isation have been given l)y various writers, including Sidis himself {Journ. Abnorm. Psijchol., iv. pp. 162-170, 1909-10) and Donley {Journ. Abnorm. Psychol., iii. pp. 148-160, 1908-9; iv. pp. 172-181, 1909-10); among these alcoholism stands out prominently along with various obsessions, of which the latter author records several interesting examples. One of these was the case of a woman who complained of a peculiar constantly repeated and involuntary hacking and clearing of the throat; various drugs, local applications, and electricity had been tried without success for four years ; and she could give no explanation of her trouble. When in the hypnoidal state she was able to inform Dr. Donley that five years previously she had suffered from a sore throat, and had been told that it might be necessary to burn out or to cut out her tonsils ; she had been much frightened at the idea, thought for a time of nothing else, and began to notice a tickling feeling in her throat which she tried to relieve by hacking ; in time the hacking became an uncontrollable impulse, although there was little, if any, abnormal feeling in the throat. Whilst in the hypnoidal state she was encouraged to recall the complete experience in as great detail as possible ; she was then told, with much emphasis, says Donley, that her tonsils were perfectly healthy, that no cutting or burning ever was or ever would be required, that the tickling sensation in the throat arose from the constant fixation of attention upon this part, that she would feel no more desire to hack because her supposed reason for hacking had ceased to exist, and