47 ARTERIO-VENOUS ANASTOMOSIS It requires, for success, that the general health be fair and the patient not too old; that the gangrene be limited; that the femoral pulse be distinct, and the vessel but slightly athero- matous—a set of conditions rarely present together. Brilliant as are the results of arterio- venous anastomosis in animals, they are far from being very encouraging in man, and it is prema- ture, at present, to build too much on them. Arterio-Sclerosis.—In spite of the amount of research which has been devoted to the subject, much still remains to be learned concerning arterio-sclerosis. Pathologists are by no means agreed as to the nature of the different vascular changes found, and clinicians for the most part continue to apply the name to any thickened condition of the arteries, the thickening being judged of mainly by the examination of the radial artery, without much reference to the ultimate nature of the morbid process. Russell, however, has done good service in clearing the ground in one direction, and the distinction which he draws between tonic contraction and hypertrophy of the media on one hand, and such forms of thickening as atheroma on the other, has attracted much notice. See Arterial Hypertonus. It is generally agreed that arterio-sclerosis, using the term to mean a diffuse thickening and rigidity of ihe arteries, occurs secondarily to the presence of deleterious substances in the blood. There is no such general agreement as to the part which is played by high blood- pressure. Some look on the high blood-pressure of arterio-sclerosis as due to the same agents— toxic materials—as cause that disease; others assert that the toxins produce arterio-sclerosis indirectly by raising the blood-pressure ; while others again think that the toxins act directly on the vessel wall, causing thickening, and that the high blood-pressure is secondary to this. Stengel holds that in the early (pre-sclerotic) stage of arterio-sclerosis, the blood-pressure, so far from being permanently raised, is actually subnormal, with occasional rises. Huchard, on the contrary, believes in a pre-sclerotic stage of hypertension; this he regards as curable, the later, sclerotic, stage as incurable. Clifford AUbutt divides cases of arterio-sclerosis into three groups :—(1) Hyperpiesis, due to high blood-pressure extending over a number of years; (2) toxic; (3) involutional. Broadly, he associates with the hyperpietic cases tearing and shearing stresses which leave microscopic evidence of their action on the vessel wall, and hypermyotrophy ; with the toxic cases thicken- ing of the intima, but no hypertrophy of the muscular coat; with the involutional cases calcification of the media. High pressure is characteristic of hyperpiesis, not of the other two; if it can be permanently al)olished the hypermyotrophy may disappear. This concep- tion appears to harmonise to some extent with the opinions of Dr. Russell. The factors whi h are believed to play a part in the production of arterio-sclerosis are:—(1) Heredity. (2) To xic causes—gout, lead-poison- ing, syphilis, alcoholism, nicotine poisoning, deleterious substances arising from excessive or abnormal metabolism of the proteids of the food (purin bodies in particular), caffeine, and theobromine. (3) Physical or mental strain, (4) Infectious diseases, especially rheumatism and typhoid fever. Thayer has drawn special attention to the comparative frequency with which arterio-sclerosis follows typhoid fever:— "Between the ages of 10 and 50 years 48'3 per cent, of old typhoid patients show palpable arteries, as compared with 17"5 per cent, among ordinary healthy individuals." It is not im- probable that the part which is played by alcohol in producing arterio-sclerosis has been to some extent over-estimated. Cabot found arterio-sclerosis in only 6 per cent, of chronic alcoholics, and a history of alcoholism in only 21 per cent, of (post-mortem) cases of arterio- sclerosis. Although typically a disease of the later decades, arterio-sclerosis may occur in children. Fremont-Smith's study of the subject points to the conclusion that the chief causes are heredity, individual predisposition, congenital syphilis, and infectious diseases. Probably the import- ance of syphilis has been over-, and the import- ance of acute infections under-rated. Experimental Arterio-Sclerosis. — At- tempts have been made to throw light on the nature of the disease by experiment on animals. The main result which has been brought out is to demonstrate that injections of adrenalin will produce, with a fair degree of certainty, degen- erative changes in the rabbit's aorta. It has been shown that ligature, compression, and local inflammation of vessels caused by mechanical or chemical means produce local thickening in the walls of the vessel, but the experiments which have been made by injecting poisonous substances bear more resemblance to the conditions obtaining in human pathology. Alcohol, lead, and bacterial poisons have given contradictory results : lead sometimes produces multiple aneurismal dilatations ; Klotz compares the effect of diphtheria toxin to that of adrenalin, while injections of streptococci and B. typhosus cause endothelial proliferation. In the case of adrenalin the experiences of different workers have been fairly congruent. Two or three weeks after a rabbit receives injections of adrenalin changes appear in its aorta. The earliest damage is found in the media; the cells necrose, and the elastic fibres degenerate. There is no primary change in the intima. Ultimately a fusiform dilatation is developed. These experiments are interpreted as illustrating the efiects of high blood-pressure. The adrena-