162 GALL BLADDER AND BILE DUCTS, DISEASES OF cholecystitis when the cystic duct is patulous ; noi^ even always in acute suppurative calculous or non-calculous cholecystitis. In but com- paratively few cases of chronic calculous or non- calculous cholecystitis is ablation indicated unless hydrops, librosis, or calcification of the wall of the organ exists. It will be seen that Deaver's argument does not touch Avhat seems to be the most important factor in deciding between the conserA'ative and more radical operations—viz. the frequency with which cancerous changes are found in excised gall bladders. If this observation of Mr. Sutton's is generally confirmed, the propriety of ablating the gall bladder for all cases will hardly be questioned. Ga.inete.—A sexual element, spermato- zoon or ovum ; the fertilised ovum due to the union of the gametes is called a zygote. See also Protozoa. Gametoid Theory of Cancer.— The idea that malignancy may be due to cells of the tumour entering upon a sexual phase (reduction of number of chromosomes in nucleus) and living as parasites upon the parent organism (C. E. Walker, Lancet, i. for 1907, p. 430). Gangrlioneuroma.—A neuroma con- taining large cells of the neuron type ; other names are the neuroma proper or the neurocy- toma ; it is to be distinguished, according to Adami {Pathology, i. p. 753, 1910), from the glioma, the ependymoma, and the neurinoma. Gaskells' Bridge.—'S'ee Heart, Dis- eases OF. Gastric Ulcer.—The Lenhartz method of treating gastric ulcer has had a considerable vogue, especially in Germany. It was intro- duced in 1904, and has as its special features these objects: — (1) To nourish the patient sufficiently to improve his general condition, and thereby promote the healing of the ulcer. (2) To limit the size of the meals, and thereby avoid distension of the stomach. (3) To prevent the action of the excess of hydrochloric acid on the ulcer by supplying enough albuminous food to " fix " the acid. The details of the treatment are as follows :— Concentrated foods—eggs, milk, raw beef juice, are given by the mouth in small amounts at intervals of an hour. Slow mastication is secured by feeding with a teaspoon, and never allowing the patient to feed himself. An icebag is applied to the epigastrium if there is any haemorrhage, and bismuth subnitrate is administered. A "cure "lasts for two weeks, and the patient is kept absolutely at rest for four weeks. The following schedule of diet is given by I^ambert:—Eggs to be beaten and kept on ice. Feeds every hour, milk and egg alternately. Milk. Per dose. 4 drachms 6 „ 1 oz. Sugar. 20 grams added to Scraped Beef. Per dose. 1 2 drachms 2 3 „ 3 h oz. 4 5 drachms ,, ,, 5 G „ 14 drachms 30 grams 6 7 „ 2 OZ8. 40 ,, 36 grams in three doses 7 4 „ 2^ „ 70 grams with also 1 soft- 100 grams boiled egg boiled rice every four in 3 doses hours 8 „ 2^ „ 9 „ 3 „ „ plus 40 grams rusk 10 ,, „ „ ,, plus chicken 50 grams and but- ter 20 grams 11-14 Interval of feeding 2 hours. Milk given in 6 oz. doses with 5 oz. raw egg. Butter increased to 40 grams, and various additions made (broiled chop, toast, and other cereals instead of rice). Lambert's series of cases warrants him in con- cluding that the original claims of Lenhartz are correct: " First, that the cure is at least equally as efficient as the older method, and that it does not deplete the patient; second, that the cure is more I'apid, as well as more certain ; third, that the vomiting and bleeding stop more quickly, and relapse less frequently, than in the Leube cure (starvation and rectal feeding); fourth, that the pain ceases promptly and that morphine is never needed ; fifth, that the food supply is sufficient throughout; sixth, that it is possible to treat the aniemia earlier with iron and arsenic than in the Leube cure; and seventh, that it is possible to return to a full diet and to the patient's usual occupation earlier than in the older cure." Ewald, whose authority on all matters con- nected with gastric disorders is indisputable, does not, however, think that the Lenhartz treatment gives better results than the classical method of rest, starvation, and rectal feeding. REFERENCES.—Lambert, Amer. Journ. Med. ScL, Jan. 1908.—Ewald, Deutsche med. Wockensch., p. 361, No. 9, 1908. Gastroe 1 yt roto m y.—See Accouche- ment Force. GastrostaxiS.—Hsemorrhage or oozing of blood from the gastric mucous membrane in cases in which no ulcer of the stomach is present, and in which there is no evidence of the presence of any other disease (e.^. auiemia, toxaemia, purpura, etc.) in which bleeding is