106 CONSERVATION OF CHILD LIFE insanitary surroundings ; much depends upon the hygiene of the mother during her preg- nancy as well as upon the feeding and care of the child during the months that follow birth ; puericulture. .b'ee Natality and Depopula- tion. Constipation, Clironic, Sur- g^icai Treatment of.—Appendicostomy is strongly advocated as a means of treating chronic constipation by C. B. Keetley {Lcmtcet, 2nd January, 1909). "It is," he says, "the best surgical treatment for constipation that has yet been devised. So far it has proved with me unfailing. One or two of the most obstinate cases I have met with or read of have yielded to it at once." The first appendi- costomy was performed by Weir of New York in 1902, and during the next few years cases of mucous and other forms of colitis were operated on in this way by various surgeons. Keetley operated on his first case in 1905, and the results were most satisfactory. The uses of appendicostomy practised or suggested up to the end of 1908 may be tabulated thus:— (1) Colitis of various kinds—mucomembranous, ulcerative, amoebic, syphilitic, tuberculous ; (2) Certain forms of intussusception, with the view of preventing recurrence (by anchoring the caecum), &c. ; (3) intestinal haemorrhage ; (4) typhoid; (5) cases of enterotomy and colotomy, as a safety-valve; intestinal dis- tension in toxic conditions ; (7) administration of nutrient enemata ; (8) constipation. Strictly speaking, appendicostomy is not in itself a remedy for constipation, but an opera- tion which facilitates the employment of remedies. After it is performed the patient washes out the colon regularly, as often as required, with dilute aperients, especially salines or cascara. It is not found necessary to increase the strength of the aperients. On the contrary, it has generally been found possible to diminish it, and ultimately injec- tions of plain water may suffice. Among the purgatives used by Keetley's patients are mistura alba, magnesum sulphate, much diluted with hot water, extr. case. sagr. liq. 3ii, glycerine ^iii, hot water a pint, protargol 1:1000 (in mucous colitis), and weak solutions of borax and sodium bicarbonate. Technique of Appe7idicostomy. — Appendix transplantation being a plastic operation, tension must be avoided. The upper end of the parietal incision must not, therefore, be too low or too near the middle line. An appendix and cfecum which do not readily come to the surface when first exposed can be persuaded to do so by gentle traction and the separation of abnormal adhesions and needless external and posterior parietal connections. Care must be taken of the free margin of the mesoappendix which contains the main appendical artery. If the appendix is kinked or twisted it should be gently straightened without bruising it. Movable and small concretions are squeezed along its lumen into the caecum, larger ones expressed through a longitudinal incision which is then sutured. The appendix should be laid in an easy position obliquely on the abdominal wall by preference with its apex upwards and outwards. Its base should lie at the edge of the original wound, and its tip is drawn through a buttonhole in the skin some little distance off, a passage for the structure being burrowed through the fat from this opening to the original wound. The csecum is then sutured to the edge of the peritoneum, and the rest of the peritoneum closed by a continuous suture. The transversalis and external oblique are then successively sutured in such a way that more of the appendix lies beneath the latter than beneath the former. One inch of the appendix should protrude through the skin, to which it is united with a fine silk suture. It is best not to open the appendix for forty-eight hours ; the structure is quite insensitive, so no anaesthetic is needed. The neatest method of opening it is to cut away the seromuscular coat to the level of the skin and then turn back the mucous and sub- mucous layers like a cuff, so that a neat little nipple results. To prevent gangrene do not open the appendix until it has adhered to its bed; do not leave a catheter in unless absolutely necessary, and if so, let it be a very small one; take every care to avoid wound infection. lleosigmoidostomy.—Mansell Moullin {Lancety 16th January, 1909) in 1900 originated the operation of lleosigmoidostomy for the relief of moderate constipation dependent on inefficient action of the large intestine, and has treated seven cases in this maimer without fatalitj', and with considerable benefit. He unites the lower end of the ileum, about 6 ins. from the cfficum by direct suture to a convenient part of the sigmoid, making a lateral anastomosis over 4 ins. in length between the two. The merits of the operation are :—(1) It meets the require- ments of the case in the simplest way by enabling the intestinal contents to evade that portion of the bowel in which they are specially prone to be detained. (2) It is almost devoid of risk. (3) It does not deprive the patient of any organ. The functions of the large intestine is imperfectly understood, but probably that part extending to the middle of the transverse colon differs from that of the rest. There fluid is absorbed, and possibly the antiperistaltic waves which occur have to do with the absorp- tion of nutriment. The idea of the operation is not to exclude a part of the bowel, but to help it, and give a certain measure of relief by providing an alternative route. Therefore the opening must be free—not less than 4 ins.