IMMUNITY 197 symptoms. On the other hand, when once the condition has become established it may persist for many years, hence any second injection of a serum, even after a long period of time has elapsed, may provoke an abnormal reaction. The practical deduction, therefore, is to avoid reinjections after the tenth day as far as possible, and if a second injection is required, to give it within a week of the first. Injections in rapid succession do not cause an altered reaction. Patients who have previousljr escaped serum disease may react to the later injections (after the tenth day). No matter how threatening the symptoms, serum disease is probably never fatal, hence, when serum is required, it should never be withheld on account of the possibility of reaction. Serum disease is least likely to occur in bad cases of diphtheria. (2) Vaccinia and Variola. —A primary vaccination runs a definite course—papulation and areolation on the 4th-6th day, the papule growing daily until the 8th-llth day. In secondary vaccinations the insertion often " takes" earlier, and the reaction subsides more quickly. Pirquet finds that in serial daily vaccinations of the same person the later insertions show evidences of the dev^elop- ment of anaphylaxis. Insertions made after the appearance of the primary areola never become areolated; they become papular im- mediately, and attain their maximum develop- ment within twenty-four hours. It is a not infrequent experience, that after performing a secondary vaccination in an adult the point of insertion begins to look angry and to show small vesicles about the 2nd or 3rd day—to appear as though it were going to "take" satisfactorily—but at the end of a week all the reaction has died away. Such accelerated, abortive reactions are apparently due to ana- phylaxis. (3) Tuberculosis.—The various specific tuber- culin tests (e.g. Calmette's oculo-reacfcion—vide iiifra) depend on the existence of anaphylaxis. The antibodies which the tuberculous focus has called into being, and which are distributed throughout the body, combine with the in- oculated toxin and cause a local reaction— cutaneous, subcutaneous, or ocular, as the case may be. (4) ffay Fever.—In susceptible persons an attack of hay fever may be produced at any time of the year in a few moments by inocu- lation with a small dose of pollen (vide Hay Fever). (5) Syphilis.—In reinfectio)is in monkeys the incubation period is curtailed. Syphilitics in all stages show local reactions to syphilitic virus. Diagnostic Aspects of Immunity. —Citron's classification gives a good idea of the scope and present possibilities of immunity-diagnosis. I. Serum Diagnosis, including (a) the diag- nosis of infectious diseases, and (6) the diagnosis of bacteria by specific protective substances in the serum, also applicable to the detection of heterologous albumins. The protective bodies which are made available for diagnostic purposes are: — 1. Agglutinines {e.g. typhoid fever—"Widal reaction—and typhoid bacilli). 2. Precipitines {e.g. specific blood tests). 3. Antitoxines {e.g. serum of convalescents from diphtheria untreated by antitoxine —of no practical importance). 4. Amboceptors {e.g. sero-diagnosis of syphilis —complement fixation). 5. Opsonines. II. Active Immunisation.—Not much used. An actively immunised animal does not react to the specific infection. The nature of a doubtful infection may be determined {a) by the response of an actively immunised animal to it; or (6) by actively immunising animals with it, and then noting theii' reactions to known infections. III. Anaphylaxis.—The specific tuberculin tests. Of these methods of diagnosis, the specific blood tests (I. 2), the sero-diagnosis of syphilis (I. 4), the opsonic index (I. 5), and the tuber- culin tests (III.) merit further description. 1. The Biological Blood Test (Uhlenhitth— Wassermann—Schiitze).—This depends on the development of precipitines. Defibrinated human blood or blood serum is injected into the peritoneal cavity of a i-abbit at intervals of two or three days until six doses have been given ; the animal is bled a week after the last injection. The immune rabbit serum is then a specific precipitant for human serum, but not for the serum of domestic animals. Decompos- ing blood, menstrual blood, and blood which has lieen heated to 60° C. give the reaction The immune serum used should be tested against human blood in order to ascertain whether it is active. A very dilute solution of the blood-stain in 1'6 saline solution is pre- pared, and filtered until it is clear. To 4 or 5 c.cm. of this solution in a test-tube there is added '5 c.cm. of the immune serum, and the whole is kept at a temperature of 38° C. Pre- cipitation Ijegins within from a few minutes to half an hour ; first a faint cloudiness develops, which becomes more dense and ultimately gives a flocculent precipitate. As in the case of the agglutination test, the time of appear- ance and the dilution required are important. Heterologous sei'ums other than human blood may give a faint haziness, so that the test cannot be regarded as positive unless at the end of an hour a true flocculent precipitate has formed with much diluted blood on the addition of two or three drops of anti- serum.