LUNGS AND THORAX, SURGERY OF THE 252 sero-sanguinolent, or serous material, may re- quire months or eA^eu years. . . . This fluid . . . does the patient no harm, as it is aseptic. The irritation produced hy the formalin, first, sterilises the pus and abscess wall; second, stimulates cicatrisation and contraction of the granulation tissue ; and third, it stimulates the production of the polymorpho-nuclear cells, which supply trypsin, the proteolytic action of which converts the albuminoid bodies in the fluid into peptones and prepares them for absorption." In chronic empyema discission of the pleura is advocated by Ransohoff" {Annals of ^urgeri/, April 1906). As much of the pleura as possible is dissected oft" through the V-shaped schede in- cision with multiple rib-resections. If the cavity is large repeated operations may be necessary. Pneiimothorax.—Murphy (General Medicine Series, ii., 1909) states that in pneumo- thorax, where the pressure is increasing and giving rise to alarming dyspnoea, the danger can be averted by introducing a large exploring needle into the pleural cavity. This is retained as long as necessary, and should be plugged with wool to prevent infection. Pneumothorax resulting from an opening in the chest wall does not possess the dangers that are usually attributed to it. The chest wall may be opened and air permitted to enter and escape freely without giving the patient any particular trouble. A small opening, which admits more air than escapes, is always dangerous ; its evil eff'ect, however, can be overcome by placing the hand over the opening, thei'eby stopping the ingress and egress of air. If the respiratory exchange is not sufficient when the chest is extensively opened, a towel may be slipped into the chest and pressed against the mediastinum, so as to fix its tissues and prevent vibration, thus restoring respiratory exchange. The Sauerbruch chamber and other mechanisms are rarely needed when only one-half of the chest is opened. Lupus Erythematosus.—Although we are still in the dark as to the etiology of lupus erythematosus, some advance has recently been made in its treatment. FiNSEN Light.—In chronic cases, after sooth- ing local treatment has been tried unsuccess- fully, exposures to the Finsen light are found to be beneficial. As suggested by Norman Walker, the exposures are given at a distance of about a foot from the lens of the lamp on every alternate day for half an hour. In this way a comparatively large area may be treated at one time, and the difficulty of applying the compressor, which is used in treating lupus vulgaris, done away with. At the same time as the light treatment is being given, the patient should also use some soothing lotion night and morning. X-Rays.—X-rays have been tried in lupus er3''thematosus with varying results. The seborrhosic form of the disease is the one' which is most benefited by rays, but as con- siderable exposures have to be given there is a risk of producing a local reaction with a subse- quent atrophy and telangiectasis. Recurrence of the disease after its removal by X-rays is also not uncommon. Taking into account the risks of the treatment, the uncertainty of the result, and the tendency to relapse. X-rays cannot be said to be better than other methods of treat- ment, and therefore other less dangerous methods have to be preferred. Freezing.—Another method which has given good results is that of freezing the skin. This was first introduced by Arning, who sprayed a mixture of ethyl and methyl chloride on the skin till it was frozen. Later Juliusberg attained the same object, but got a deeper and more rapid effect, by allowing liquid CO.. from a cylinder to jet on the skin. The difficulty of controlling the escape of the CO.^ was overcome by Pusey, who allows the carbon dioxide to escape with a rush from the cylinder into a piece of chamois leather. It deposits on the leather in the form of a snow which can be compressed into solid masses, which are cut into shape with a knife, grasped by forceps, and applied to the skin. The snow may also be stamped out into pencils of convenient shape and size by means of an ear speculum or cylin- drical rubber tube of different widths. The snow is pressed into the lesion for a half to one minute. The longer the contact and the firmer the pressure, the deeper the freezing. The skin is thus frozen to a depth of about half an inch. The freezing is absolutely painless, and the sub- sequent thawing causes only a slight stinging sensation, which soon passes off A few mo- ments later a wheal begins to develop, and later the affected part shows a circumscribed inflam- matory reaction with vesiculation. Later this crusts over, and when the crust falls off the lesion has disappeared without any visible scar formation. REFERENCES. — Pdsey, " The Use of Carbon Dioxide in Treatment of NiEvi and other Lesions of the Skin," Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc., Oct. 1907.—Tremble, Journ. Ctttan. Diseases, Sept. 1907.—Zkisler, Journ. Cutan. Diseases, p. 32, 1909.—Arning, Deutsche mecl. Wochensch., No. 32, 19i)3 ; Congress der Deutsrhe Derm. Gesellsch ,Sept.1903.—Hansen, Deutsche med. Wochensch., No. 40, 1903.—Dreuw, Monatssh. f. prakt. Derm., Bd. 37, p. 193, 190S.—Munch, med. Wochensch., No. 15, p. 683, 1904.—Juliusberg, Berlin, hlin. Wochensch., No. 10, 1905. Lupus Vulgaris.—Finsen Light.— The Finsen light treatment of lupus vulgaris is undoubtedly the method of choice where a good cosmetic result is desired, but the expense and time necessary for the treatment are beyond the means of many patients. After the light treat-