230 LABOUR, MANAGEMENT OF pain-assuaging ones to the full. " During a pain the rapid action of chloroform is quickly recovered from by the forced expiration, and the nerve-centres, temporarily stimulated by the increased respiration, resist the effect of the depressing agent, while the general high blood-pressure furnishes a reserve power of resistance against any untoM'ard elfect or excessive amount of the aneesthetic." Perhaps, also, the dilatation of the vagina and external parts in labour acts as a constantly recurring stimulus to the respiratory centre. Chloroform, then, is remarkably suited to produce either the incomplete anaesthesia called for in natural labours to relieve the patient's sufferings, or the more complete anajsthesia required for the performance of such obstetric operations as version or symphysiotomy. For the first object it is given towards the close of the second stage and intermittently; the towel or mask is brought near to the face with the advent of each pain, and removed in the interval ; but when the infant's head is actually distending the perineum and jDassing over it, the adminis- tration of the anesthetic may be more nearly continuous. When it is given for the second purpose—the induction of full anaesthesia—the same precautions should be taken, and the same plans followed as in surgery, although even here the " obstetrical immunity " to danger can be observed. The good effects of chloi'oform in obstetric eases complicated by heart disease have been noted by many observers; but it ought to be remembered that the third stage of labour does not continue to enjoy the immunity from danger which is present in the first and second stages, and this remark applies not only to labours complicated with heart disease, but also to those which are natural. The chloro- form towel or mask should be removed from the patient's face, and, indeed, from her vicinity altogether, after the birth of the child's head. Whilst the foregoing are the views which are generally held regarding the use of chloroform in midwifery practice, no review of recent literature would be complete without a reference to the statements which have been made regarding the necessity for ansesthesia in labour. J. Veit {Therap. Monatsh., xxii. p. 609, 1908) goes back to the arguments and standpoint of sixty years ago, and maintains that labour is a normal function and should be conducted without recourse to an aiussthetic, save in the case of neurasthenic women attended by a neurasthenic physician. This is obviously an extreme view, and it is one which Veit's fellow-countrymen apparently do not share in ; Prof, von Krilnig, for instance {Brit. Med. Jour a.., ii. for 1908, p. 805), recognises the necessity of diminishing labour pains, especially in the case of sensitive and nervously-disposed women, and points out that, besides conferring a benefit upon the women in so doing, we remove factors which might have an injurious effect. Newell {Surg., Gynec, and Obstet., iii. p. 126, 1906) goes further, and would allow the patient an anaesthetic even in the first stage of labour, believing that the sufferings of the lying-in woman deserve relief even before the cervix is fully dilated. It may, at any rate, be regarded as generally admitted that the pains even of a natural labour are so severe as to call for some assuagement. But all obstetricians are not agreed that this alleviation of pain can be best or most safely obtained by the inhalation of chloroform. For a time it seemed as if sjnnal ancesthesia might succeed in establishing itself as a means of abrogating suffering in confinement cases. At first a sterilised 2 per cent, solution of cocaine was used, and from 1 to 2 grammes were injected into the spinal cavity by means of a needle introduced between the third and fourth lumbar A'ertebraj, about half an inch to one side of the middle line ; then other drugs began to be employed, such as eucaine, novo- caine, and stovaine ; but the method, whatever agent be used, has its inconveniences (such as the throwing out of action of the secondary powers of labour), and its employment has been accompanied by dangerous and even by fatal results. (See Lea's review of the subject in the Journ. Ohstet. and Gyna;c. Brit. Emp., i. p. 83, 1902 ; Martin's views are given in the Milnch. med. Wochensch., li. p. 1817, 1904; A. Falkner, in the Zentralb. f. Gyndk., xxxi. p. 65, 1907, gives an account of evil aftei-effects; see also Kronig and Gauss in the Milnch. med. Wochensch., liv. pp. 1969, 2040, 1907.) Ether continues to be used in midwifery practice in several parts of the world, notably in the United States of America. It was the agent which Sir James Simpson employed when, in January 1847, he introduced anaesthesia into obstetric practice; l)ut later in the same year he abandoned ether for chloroform, finding that the latter was more portable, potent, and pleasant, and less irritating to the air-passages. On the other hand, chloroform is more danger- ous than ether in surgical practice, and it has been argued that it will necessarily be so in midwifery likewise ; and this consideration has, no doubt, influenced obstetric practice in the United States, in Ireland, and in England. Jewett (in Norris and Dickinson's Obstetrics, i. p. 413, 1902) thinks that the use of ether for partial anfesthesia is growing in America, and advises that it be always employed for complete anaesthesia. On the other hand, the writer of an editorial in American Medicine (June 1903) states that the safety of chloroform in mid- wifery is now conceded, and that most obste- tricians prefer chloroform in obstetric operations. Whitridge Williams {Obstetric.% p. 321, 1908), also, favours chloroform as compared with ether, and regards " religious objections " on the part