238 LAIOSE levulose, but differing from it in being un- fermentable with yeast. La.k Cit.—A proprietary preparation of milk for infant feeding ; it is a dry preparation, and when mixed with hot water gives a fluid resembling milk ; the addition of an acid yields a finely divided not a clotted curd. For reports see Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1910, p. 1349; Lancet, ii. for 1910, p. 35. La.na, Kerol.—A proprietary preparation described as an oxidised di-phenyl compound made miscible with water by means of a special soap; it has bactericidal properties. G. M. Lowe reports favourably on its use in eczema exudans {Lancet, ii. for 1910, p. 1343). Law, Galton's.—»See Heredity. Law, Mendel's.—-See Heredity. Laxans.—One of the many trade names for phenolphthalein ; others are purgen, pheno- lax, laxatin, laxatol, laxiconfect, purgylum, etc. Laxatin.—A trade name for phenolph- thalein. Laxatol.—A trade name for phenolph- thalein. Laxiconfect. — A trade name for phenolphthalein. Laxophen.—A trade name for phenolph- thalein. "Lebenswecker" Treatment.— The "Lebenswecker " is an instrument carrying a number of sharp needles which can be driven into the skin ; it is employed in " Baunscheid- tism," or the treatment of rheumatism and chronic neuralgias and sciatica by counter- irritation ; after the punctures are made, an irritant such as croton oil is rubbed into them. See Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1910, p. 732. Lecithalbumin. — A compound of lecithin with protein. Lecithin-Ag^a.—A proprietary prepa- ration consisting of a sterilised solution of lecithin (prepared from pure yolk of egg) in olive oil; it is intended for intramuscular injection. See Lancet, ii. for 1908, p. 99. Lecithoproteins.—A group of con- jugated proteins in which the protein molecule is believed to be compounded with lecithins {phosphatides, lecithans). On the question of the existence of these as true compounds, see Adami, Pathology, i. p. 57, 1910. Leg'al's Test.—A means of determining the presence of acetone (dimethyl ketone); it depends on the development of a ruby-red colour, changing to yellow, when to the suspected urine a few drops of concentrated solution of sodium nitro-prussid are added, followed by sodium or potassium hydrate till the mixture is markedly alkaline; it is also called Le Noble's Test. See Webster, Diag- nostic Methods, p. 305, 1909. Lei^umine Biscuits.—A proprietary food preparation which is made with legumine or vegetable albumin ; the starch is partially converted into dextrin by means of diastase. See Lancet, ii. for 1908, p. 1824. Leiner'S Test.—A test for casein in the faeces ; the faecal matter is dried on a slide, fixed by heat, and stained with a mixture of acid fuchsin and methyl green in alcohol; casein and paracasein stain pale blue or violet. For details, see Webster's Diagnostic Methods, p. 108, 1909. Leiomyosarcoma.—A spindle-celled sarcoma {e.g. of the uterus) arising from un- striped muscle elements. Leishman's Method.—Li bacterio- logy this term is used to describe a method of observing phagocytosis by leucocytes outside the body and under the microscope. A few drops of blood are taken from the finger, treated so as to get the leucocytes, which are then suspended in serum ; to this suspension one of some pathogenic microbe is added, the mixture is put for a short time in the incu- bator, and then the number of microbes within the leucocytes is observed. Leish man's Stain.—-See Blood {Ex- aniinatio7i of Films). "Lemco" Wine.—A proprietary meat wine of which an analysis is given in the Brit. Med. Journ. (i. for 1909, p. 795). See also the Lancet Special Commission on Extract of Meat {Lancet, ii. for 1908, p. 1240). Lenitol.—A proprietary preparation, de- scribed as a " specially prepared petroleum, combined with suitable flavouring agents " ; it is recommended as a rational cure for constipa- tion, acting mechanically as an emollient and not as an aperient. Le pi d O m as.—Lepidic or " rind " tumours, or neoplasms arising from the " lining membrane " tissues, i.e. " tissues in which the blood-vessels do not penetrate the groups of specific cells, and in which there is an absence of definite stroma between the individual cells, although such