SURGERY, ASEPSIS IN 352 " The nails are first trimmed to about 1 mm. in length ; then the hands and forearms are vigorously scrubbed . . . for ten minutes. Green soap, or the common brown kitchen soap, or some other good detergent soap is used." The water is to be changed frequently, if running water is not obtainable. The first two or three minutes are given to general scrub- bing, especially of the folds between the fingers ; then the nails are to be attended to with a blunt- pointed nail-knife ; then the rest of the ten minutes (by the clock) is occupied with con- tinued scrubbing, when the soap-suds can be washed off and the next process commenced. In the Johns Hopkins Hospital this consists in immersing the hands in a hot saturated solution of permanganate of potash and keeping them there till they are stained of a mahogany-brown colour ; they are next placed in a hot saturated solution of oxalic acid to remove the stain ; then they are soaked in corrosive sublimate solution (1 in 1000) for five minutes ; and finally they are rinsed in sterile water or saline solution. Another chemical disinfectant which may be used is nascent chlorine gas from chlorinated lime. Although some surgeons in the first rank do not wear gloves, their use has become so common that it is obligatory to know the technique ; perhaps their most important func- tion is to cover the hands of assistants and nurses whose knowledge or conscience is less developed regarding strict asepsis than is that of the operator himself. Rubber gloves have been employed for years, but lately cotton ones have begun to be used ; if they are made of the latter material they will require to be changed during an operation. It is, of course, of the utmost importance that the gloves be properly sterilised. Rubber gloves may be treated by boiling for 15 or 20 minutes in carbonate of soda solution ; they should be put in a linen bag during the process, for it will not do to allow parts of them to float above the surface of the water. They should be tested for imper- fections {e.g. puncture holes) by inflating them and putting them under water, when the escape of air bubbles will reveal the defect; this should be done before they are sterilised. They may be steamed instead of boiled ; in this case they are first washed, then dusted with talc powder, and then packed loosely with absorbent cotton, wrapped in a sterilised towel, and placed in the steam steriliser for half an hour or three-quarters; before they are worn the poM'dered talc is washed away with alcohol. They can be drawn on the hands most easily by being distended first with sterile water; after use they are washed and dried, and during the drying process they should be distended so as to prevent contiguous surfaces adhering; they should then be well dusted with talc. It goes without saying that they should be a good fit, for if the tips of the fingers project, the sense of touch will be lessened and the risk of puncture greatly increased. Undoubtedly they are somewhat expensive and have to be fre- quently renewed, but if they are carefully handled and treated the cost can be kept down within reasonable limits. The objections to to the use of gloves include the loss of the delicate sense of touch and of skill in doing fine manipulations {e.g. tying ligatures) which they involve, the increased amount of perspiration of the hands which they cause, and the multi- plication of germs within them. There can be no doubt that a glove which has been taken off and turned inside out during an operation is a most dangerous thing to come in contact with the wound, and this must be carefully guarded against; there is also a risk of the escape of germ containing sweat from a punc- tured glove; but the other objections may be got over by practice which makes perfect, and by the use of thin gloves with a roughened surface. Perhaps the chief real risk is the subtle influence which makes the operator or his assistant less rigid in the other details of his technique on account of the fact that he is wearing gloves. Suhires and Ligatures and their Prepara- tion.—The various materials used for sutures and ligatures enumerated in the Encyclopedia and Dictionary {Vol. I. pp. 295-296) have not been added to, with the single exception of silver wire, which some operators have been employing as a buried suture for the sure closure of the wound in abdominal section. Silk, silkworm gut, catgut, and kangaroo tendon still hold the field, although sur- geons diff'er much as to the opinions they hold regarding their relative value. Some operators {e.g. Treves and Hutchinson) regard silkworm gut as the best suture material, and they name its advantages as strength, smooth- ness, solidity, and the fact that it can be left in the tissues for a comparatively long time (14 to 21 days if necessary). It is not, how- ever, absorbed, and ought not to be buried in the tissues, and it requires to be placed in sterile hot water to make it pliable and less slippery before use. Silkworm gut is prepared by twisting it up in bundles of ten or a dozen strands and putting them under running hot water to wash off the excess of methyl blue or red which has been used to stain it (to make it easy of recognition in the tissues); it should then be boiled in water for ten minutes, and kept ready for use in a 5 per cent, solution of carbolic acid in water. It is of great value in suturing such wounds as require continued support (cleft palate, ruptured perineum, etc.). There is a variety of thin silkworm gut ("ophthalmic gut") which is recommended in operations on the face and neck, where it is important that the scar should be very slight.