394 UTERUS, PROLAPSUS AND RETRO-DEVIATIONS OF cleaned. Several of those who took part in the discussion which followed the reading of Dr. Bantock's paper held views resembling those laid down therein ; and there can be no doubt that in the profession generally a great many practitioners make use of temporary measuT'es (pessaries and supports) for the treat- ment of uterine displacements in patients who are averse to operation, or who cannot, for various reasons, undergo such interference. It is to be hoped that these practitioners are as careful as Dr. Bantock in the choice of the supports employed, and in the way in which the treatment is carried through. B, C. Hirst also {Theraj). Gaz., 3 S. xxi. p. 289, 1905), and Hofmeier (lUiinch. med. Wochensch., liii. p. 1649, 1906), have written in a somewhat similar way about the pessary treatment of displacements. At the same time, there can be no doubt that the trend of theory and practice in gynecology is still strongly in the direction of operative interference, and that the abdomen is being frequently opened in order to carry out this interference. Alexander's operation of shortening the round ligaments of the uterus is extensively practised, but there is still considerable difference of opinion as to the best method of performing it. It may be done, as Alexander proposed, by the extraperitoneal operation ; this method has practically no mortality, and, in the case of women who may reasonably expect to bear children, it is to be preferred, for it does not interfere with the changes incident to pregnancy and labour; but difficulty is occasionally experi- enced in finding the ligaments externally, and the results of the shortening are not so certain or so permanent as when the procedure adopted is the intraperitoneal one. In 1903 Baldy (J^ew York Med. Journ., Ixxviii. p. 167) proposed, as had been done previously by Webster, to shorten the round ligament by passing it through an opening in the broad ligament (under the Fallopian tube) and suturing it to the posterior surface of the uterus ; but Noble (Kelly and Noble's Gynecology, i. p. 539, 1907) condemned this method on theoretical grounds, and advo- cated Gilliam's operation in which the proximal end of the round ligament is sutured to the anterior abdominal wall, the aponeurotic sheath, rectus muscle, and peritoneum being perforated, and the ligament fixed to the aponeurosis of the external oblique. Gilliam's operation is really a round - ligament venti'o - suspension of the uterus, and, as modified in F. Simpson's retro- peritoneal shortening {Tranx. Sout'h. Surg, and Gynec. Assoc., xv. p. 223, 1903), would seem to possess obvious advantages. J. W. Taylor {Jour7i. Obsfef. arid Gyno'c. Brit, /imp., xii. p. 415, 1907), however, is impressed with the safety and value of the extraperitoneal opera- tion, and uses it save in cases where adhesions exist; in 170 operations there was no mortality. and the results as to the position of the uterus were very satisfactory, for in three only of the number was there a relapse. Before shortening the ligaments Taylor dilated and curetted the uterus, and put it in a position of complete anteversion, with a pessary to retain it. It is difficult to speak decisively regarding the value of shortening of the utero-sacral ligaments in prolapsus and retro-displacements. It maj' be done either by vaginal section (the posterior vaginal fornix Ijeing incised without opening into the peritoneum, and the two ends of each ligament being sewed together) or by opening the abdomen and suturing together the two ends of each ligament on their peritoneal aspect. The operation of ventr-al suspension, known also as hysterorrhaphy, ventrofixation, and hysteropexy, vvas introduced more than twenty years ago by Kelly and Olshausen ; but there is still a lack of uniformity regarding its advantages, its dangers and inconveniences (immediate and remote), and the best method of perfor ming it (see Giles, Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1906, p. 1188, and Herman, ihid., ii. for 1908, p. 790). It would seem that, if the abdomen is to be opened, some combination of plication of the broad and round ligaments with attachment of the uterus to the anterior abdominal wall will best achieve the end in view, viz., retention of the uterus in an ante- verted position at its normal level qud the pehas with sufficient mobility not to interfere with the normal progress of a future pregnancy and with the safe accomplishment of a future labour. UtriCUlOplasty.—An operation on the uterus introduced by Howard Kelly, consisting in the reduction of the size of that organ bj^ means of excision of a wedge-shaped piece of the whole thickness of the uterine wall, having its base at the fundus and its apex at or near the internal os ; the two halves of what remains are then sutui-ed together with catgut stitches in the middle line; thus a utriculus or minia- ture uterus is produced, capable of maintaining the function of menstruation, but not likely to allow of menorrhagia or metrorrhagia. The operation, therefore, is really a vertical resec- tion of the organ, and the result is a uterus as long as before, but only half its size as measured from side to side. The indications are subinvolution, small fibroid tumours causing bleeding, and prolapsus uteri when it is use- fully associated with ventrofixation (H. Kelly, 7'ran$. Amer. Gynec. Soc, xxxiv. pp. 536-549, 1909). Victor Bonney has devised for this operative procedure the term " utriculoplasty," as defining clearly its nature and scope, but it is not free from ambiguity, as there are other utricles in the body besides that artificially produced by Kelly's operation. Bonney has-