172 HEART, DISEASES OF The auricular wave is due to the systole of the auricles, and is followed by a fall {x) as they relax. After the auricles relax blood is stored up in them during the period of ven- tricular systole, and this storage of blood causes the lever to rise and produce the wave i\ which terminates as the auriculo - ventriculai' valves open and allow the stored-up blood to escape into the ventricles. The termination of the wave V, therefore, marks the moment of open- ing of the tricuspid valve. The car'otid wave (c) is due to a communicated impact from the carotid artery, and marks the time of ven- tricular systole. The notch on the wave v just before its termination corresponds in time with the closure of the semilunar valves. The interval of time between the auricular and carotid waves is extremely important from the clinician's point of view. It is known as the a-c interval, and its normal duration is one-fifth of a second. Prolongation of this period is an evidence of depression of the conductivity of the heart muscle. The radial trace (Fig. 3) may be divided into two parts, a systolic and a diastolic interval. The systolic period includes the so-called per- cussion and predicrotic waves {jj and r). According to Mackenzie, the former is instru- mental. With the closure of the semilunar valves the pressure falls to the bottom of the aortic notch {71) but the fall is interrupted at the beginning of the diastolic period by the dicrotic wave {d). The relationship between the jugular and radial tracings is shown in Figs. 1 and 2. At the commencement of a tracing, before the paper is set in motion, it is customary to allow the levers to record vertical strokes; these afford a fixed point from which measurements can afterwards be taken. Analysis of a Tracing.—-When the venous pulse consists merely of a series of irregular undulations (Fig. 2) it is often impossible by gi—9 V—O ^—Cr^T (?—f—V y t^"V—O P~ 3 i, & Fig. 2.—(After Mackenzie.) simple inspection to localise the various events occurring in it. In such a case the radial tracing is used as a guide. Make a perpen- dicular stroke at the beginning of a radial pulse, and then a second, one-tenth of a second in front of it (4 and 3, Fig. 2). Stroke 3 nidicates the time of the carotid pulse. With a pair of compasses mark off the distance from the beginning of the tracing to 3, and measure a similar distance in the venous pulse : a per- pendicular at this point will cut the carotid wave. The auricular wave is one-fifth of a second before this (1, Fig. 2). The aortic notch correspends in time with the undulations on the ventricular wave, just before the ter- mination of the latter, so that a perpendicular through it may also be used as a guide (6, Fig. 2). Ventricular Form of Venous Pvlse (Fig 3).— In this form of pulse tracing the auricular wave Fig. 3.—Ventricular venous pulse. (After Mackenzie.) has disappeared, and we now find a large wave synchronous with systole, and a fall synchron- ous with diastole. Mackenzie looks on this as evidence that the rhythm of the heart is