43 APHASIA lesions in the domain of the posterior cerebral, not the sylvian artery. LITERATURE.—Marie. Sem. mid. (Paris), Nos. 21, 42, 48, 1906 ; Presse mid. (Paris), No. 4, 1907.— Dejerine. Presse mid. (Paris), pp. 437, 453, 742.— Blassberg. Wien. klin. Wochenschr., Aug. 13, 1908.— Mayendorf. Berl. klin. Wochenschr., Aug. 10, 1908. A valuable risumi of the subject is contained in an article by Collier, Brain, xxxi. p. 523, 1908. Apinol. — A product of the destructive distillation of pine wood, stated to be an anti- septic, a local anaesthetic, and an expectorant. Aplastic Anaemia.—Ansemia in which there is a diminution of the granular leucocytes as well as of the red blood corpuscles, with a relative increase of the lymphocytes, indicating absence of a compensatory reaction of the bone marrow. It was described by Ehrlich in 1888, and recently by Cabot in 1908 (Osier and M'Crae's System of Medicine, iv. p. 637). It has been regarded by some as distinct from per- nicious ansemia and by others as differing only in degree. See also Lavenson, Amer. J own. Med. Sci., cxxxiii. p. 100, 1907. "Appetite Juice." See Digestion {Gastric). Apraxia. — In connection with Marie's theory of aphasia, according to which the third left frontal convolution is deposed from its posi- tion as a centre for the memory of words, it is of interest to remember that recent work on apraxia (a subject brought into notice by Liep- mann) tends to show that certain functions, comparable to that of speech, are localised in the first and second frontal convolutions, and therefore in so far supports the older hypothesis as opposed to Marie's views. By apraxia is meant a condition of inability to execute skilled movements with the limbs, apart from paralysis, disturbance of sensation, defect in co-ordination, or intellectual impairment. The ability to per- form purposive movements of the limbs, either right or left, is supposed to depend on the in- tegrity of the posterior part of the first and second left frontal convolutions, which are pro- bably connected with the left side of the body by the anterior fibres of the corpus callosum. It is obvious that "motor aphasia bears the same relation to the movements of the muscles concerned in speech as does apraxia to the movements of the limbs. Motor aphasia, pure or cortical, is clearly synonymous with apraxia, pure or cortical, of the movements concerned in speech, and motor agraphia is apraxia pure and simple. According to this view a series of higher motor centres concerned with certain subjectively purposive movements are situated in the posterior parts of the three frontal gyri and immediately in front of the Eolandic centres (lower motor centres) for the corresponding regions of the body. Lesion of these centres is productive of phenomena of a similar order in the corresponding region of the body—namely, motor aphasia, motor agraphia, and apraxia. At a time, then, when the most determined efforts are being made, and upon grounds which are at least logical, to dismiss the left third frontal gyrus from our conception of the essen- tial speech mechanism, evidence of a very strong nature is increasingly coming to hand which calls for the retention of Broca's area as a speech centre, entirely apart from the con- sideration of local lesions of the brain causing speech-defect." (Collier, Brain, xxxi. p. 529, 1908.) [For a general review of apraxia, see Wilson, Brain, xxxi. p. 164, 1908.] Arsacetin. — Sodium acetyl arsanilate, a crystalline substance without taste or odour, free from arsenious or arsenic acid, soluble to 10 per cent, in cold water, claimed to be less toxic than sodium arsanilite, and recommended in syphilis and trypanosomiasis (dose, from 1| to 7| grains hypodermically). Arterial Hypertonus.—This term was introduced by Russell to denote a condition of the arterial wall characterised by tightening up of its muscular fibres. His recent work on the subject is extremely suggestive, and has attracted a great deal of attention. The pathological changes in the arterial wall which are of importance clinically are atheroma, obliterative endarteritis, calcareous infiltration of the tunica media, and arterio-sclerosis. Russell has been one of the first to show that a clear distinction must be drawn be- tween atheroma (a focal lesion, chiefly of the intima, progressing to degenerative changes) on the one hand, and arterio-sclerosis on the other. Moreover, he has shown that in the pro- duction of what is clinically known as arterio- sclerosis two factors are operative; one a permanent one — a thickening chiefly of the media, the other temporary, or often so—a hypertonic contraction of the vessel wall. A further point is that hypertonus in this sense may affect normal, or atheromatous, as well as sclerosed vessels. Russell was led to his conception of the moi- bid anatomy of arterio-sclerosis by examining radial arteries which had shown marked thick- ening during life. He found that the thickening was due to hypertrophy of the muscular fibres of the tunica media, hyperplasia without de- generation of the subendothelial tissue of the tunica intima, and sometimes fibrous hyperplasia of the tunica adventitia. These changes obvi- ously differ essentially from atheroma; more- over, they are not confined to a limited area of the vessel wall, but are widely distributed throughout the body. They may be associated with atheroma of the aorta, but this is only co-