120 DIGESTIVE FUNCTIONS, TESTS FOR THE —mouth, gums, throat, nose, piles, must be excluded. Among the tests employed are— (I) the guaiac reaction ; (2) the uloin reaction ; {3) the benzedin reaction. The last is extremely delicate. GrUAiAO AND Aloin Tests.—Rub down with water a piece of faeces the size of a walnut, and add to 5 or 6 c.c. of the fluid one-third of its volume of acetic acid. Shake thoroughly, and extract with 6-8 c.c. ether. When the mixture clears, pour the ether off into two tubes ; to one add tincture of guaiacum, to the other tincture of aloes, and to both add 20-25 drops of oil of turpentine. A blue colour in the one case, a cherry red in the other, shows that blood is present. Benzedin Test.—Dissolve as much benzedin puriss. (Merck) as will lie on the point of a knife in 2 c.c. glacial acetic acid. Infuse a pea- sized mass of fseces in a test tube full of boiling water (to destroy ferments) and add a few drops of the liquid to a mixture of 10 drops of the benzedin-acetic acid solution, and 2 or 3 c.c. commercial solution (3 per cent.) of hydrogen peroxide. The presence of blood is shown by a deep greenish-blue colour. REFERENCKS.—SCHLOSS, Arch. f. Verdauungsh, 30th June 1904.—Hartmann, Jhid., 25th Feb. 1904. —Davis, Bosi. Med. and Surg. Journ., 8th Aug. 1907. —Goodman, Amer. Journ. Med. ScL, Oct. 1907. Dioxydiamidoarsenobenzol. — See also SYPHILIS {Treatment). An organic compound of arsenic, better known as "606," brought forward by Ehrlich for the treatment of syphilis; it is also known as theEhrlich-Hata specific and as salvarsan ; it has been given by intra-muscular and by intra-venous injection ; the enthusiastic early reports of its value have hardly been maintained. Vide Dr. Emery's article {Lancet, ii. for 1910, pp. 1543-1548). Disuse-Atrophy. — The group of changes in functional cells following upon con- tinued disuse ; they resemble those following atrophy from reduced blood supply. Diversion of Complement.— A peculiar phenomenon in liacteriolysis, first ob- served by Neisser and Wechsbei'g (in 1901) and described as follows by Adami {Pathology, i. p. 546, 1910):—"If a suspension of bacteria be taken in a normal serum containing sufficient complement to cause bacteriolysis when a known amount of inactivated serum is added {i.e. con- taining X amboceptors), then if, say 10 x ambo- ceptors be added, instead of the solution of the bacteria being hastened, the opposite occurs; it may be wholly arrested. There is evidently a diversion of the complements, the excess un- attached amboceptors have a greater avidity or attraction for the complement molecules than have those that have become partially satisfied by attachment to the bacteria, or, conversely, it may be that the avidity of the bacterial receptors is greater for amboceptors pure and simple than for the combined amboceptors plus complement." Various explanations of the phe- nomenon have been given, but its practical importance is that in immunisation the amount of immune serum injected should be kept within certain limits, if it is to be effective (Adami). Dominants and Dominance.— See Heredity {Mendel's Law). Dom i n ici Tu bes.—Tubes for the appli- cation of radium, made of silver and allowing only /3 and 7 rays to pass. Dosimetric iVlethod.—The adminis- tration of medicines by accurate and system atic measurement. Dreuw's iVIetllOd.—A method of treats ing lupus vulgaris by first freezing the affected skin {e.g. with carbon dioxide snow) and then rubbing crude hydrochloiic acid well in. See Lupus Vulgaris. Drugrs, Recent. Aspirin. Atoxyl . Bromural Cacodylic Acid . Colloidal Metals Fibrolysin Formic Acid . Heroin . Veronal 120 120 121 121 121 121 122 122 122 Aspirin.—One of the trade names of acetyl- salicylic acid (also known as Xaxa, etc.). Acetyl-salicylic acid has the same general action as the salicylates, and is in many respects a very useful drug. It seems to be a more powerful analgesic than salicylic acid or sodium salicylate, and often does good in neuralgia, headache, muscular rheumatism, sciatica, lumbago, and the like. Unpleasant symptoms (tinnitus aurium and giddiness) rarely occur, but in some persons it produces nausea. It does not induce perspiration in febrile condi- tions to the same extent as sodium salicylate. In afebrile cases there is no sweating. Aceto- salicylic acid is best administered in cachets ; the dose is 5-15 grs. for an adult. It is decomposed by alkalies, and is incompatible with many other drugs, and therefore should be prescribed alone, without admixture. It does not keep well if exposed to the air as tablets or in powder. Atoxyl is the trade name of an organic compound of arsenic, much employed in the