158 FRACTURES of the metacarpal towards the dorsal aspect of the trapezium pi'oduces an abnormal prominence which partly fills up the hollow between the long and short extensor tendons of the thumb. This prominence is easily felt. The only injury with which this fi-actnre is liable to be confused is dislocation of the metacarpal backwards, and from this it is distinguished by crepitus, and by the return of the deformity after reduction. TreatmcMt.—In recent cases the displacement is readily reduced by traction on the thumb in the abducted and fully extended position, at the same time pressing over the dorsal aspect of the metacarpal. It is, however, difficult to maintain the fragments in apposition. This is best done by a palmar splint reaching from the tip of the thumb across the hand pi'ojecting beyond the ulnar side of the wrist. The lower end of the splint is firmly fixed to the tip of the thumb by plaster. The thumb is then fully extended and abducted, and this position is kept up by applying a bandage round the wrist and hand so as to catch the end of the splint which projects beyond the ulnar nmrgin of the wrist, and push it downwards and towards the radial side. The prognosis as regards function is good ; no practical inconvenience follows some perma- nent displacement of the metacarpal. See also a paper on "Punch fractures" by Burrows (Brit. Med. Journ., 28th Mar. 1908). Robinson (Boston Med. ami Surg. Journ., 27th Feb. 1908) found from a radiographic examination of ninety-two fractures of the metacarpal of the thuml) that only twenty-eight were of the true Bennett type as described above. In the other sixty-foui- the fracture was more or less trans- verse, passing through the shaft near the base, but without implicating the joint or being attended with subluxation. In this type of fracture the maintenance of extension is ini- necessaiy. Fi'acture of the Intercarpal Joints.—Schoch {Deutsche Zeitschrift f. Chir., 1907, cxi. p. 53) states that the combination of anterior disloca- tion of the semilunar bone with fracture of the scaphoid is a typical injury, which he proposes to call " typical intercarpal dislocation fracture " It is caused by severe violence, usually a fall from a height on the hand. The symptoms are swelling of the wrist and pain on passive move- ment. The carpus is thickened, broadened, and shortened. Beyond the radial border anteriorly there is bony resistance, finger movements are affected, and the median nerve is pressed on. The prognosis is serious. The treatment is first non-operative, then operative reduction. When these are not successful the proximal fragment should be extracted and the semilunar replaced, or the latter with the scaphoid should be extirpated. Vigorous and long-continued systematic movements are required to restore function. Fracture of the Neck of the Femur.—The Whitman method (Whitman, New York State Journal of Medicive, May 1909 ; Walker, Annals of Surgery, 1908, xlvii. 84). In this method of treatment the limb is put up in the abducted position, and fixed in a plaster of Paris spica bandage. The ansesthetised patient is lifted on to a box or pillows about eight inches high, and large enough to support the head, shoulders, and trunk. The pelvis is fixed by abduction of the sound limb to its extreme limit, and traction is made on the injured limb held at the limit of abduction, about 45°. A plaster spica is so applied as to include the pelvis and cross below the edge of the rib; it extends to the foot, and prevents any eversion. Whitman divides fractures of the neck of the femur into complete and incomplete, the latter being (1) impacted, (2) greenstick, (3) diastasis, (4) fracture complete but held together by capsule and periosteum. The last is the most common in the adult, and usually passes for impacted fracture. The principle of Whitman's method depends on the construction of the joint. The normal range of abduction is about 45°, and in this position the outer and upper part of the neck is in contact with theacetabulum; the upper extremity of the trochanter impinges against the muscles covering the ileum; the lower part of the capsule is stretched. These three checks to abduction act at the same time, but in fracture, the deformed neck comes pre- maturely in contact with the acetabulum, and abduction is restricted. By fully abducting the limb the shaft and upper fragment are adjusted at the normal angle. In a few cases AVhitman has also inserted a temporary bone drill through the two fragments by subcutaneous operation. In any case, repair is slow, and a hip-splint which prevents weight bearing, while allowing motion, may require to be woi-n for a year. By the abduction method a better i-ange of movement is got than by fixing the leg in the line of the body. Treatment of Uniinited Fracture by Bier's Congestive Method. See Bier's TREATilENT. Ischoimic Contracture. — Volkmann s Con- tracture.—One of the unfortunate sequelae of fracture is known as ischaemic paralysis and contracture. It is due to the too tight appli- cation of bandages, and most of the cases re- corded have occurred in children after fracture of the forearm or about the elbow. It has l)een defined by Harris {Brit. Med. Journ., 26th Sept. 1908) as " a primary muscular contracture from necrobiosis of the muscular tissue dependent on its deprivation of arterial blood." The reason why it is relatively common after injuries about the elbow, is that in such cases there is apt to be considerable effusion of blood, and pressure on all the tissues of the part. The scale may easily be turned against recovery by the application of an over-tight Imndage. The injury occurs with peculiar rapidity; there is