ANESTHESIA AND ANESTHETICS 34 lumbar interspace. When the anaesthetic is introduced into the area above mentioned, it mixes freely with the cerebro-spinal fluid, and complete bi-lateral anaesthesia is induced. Immediately prior to the patient being sent to the operating-theatre it will be found a useful procedure, especially in the case of the surgeon new to this form of anaesthesia, to introduce under the skin to be punctured a few drops of a local anassthetic, such as | per cent, novocaine with adrenalin. This will get rid of the slight pain arising from the introduction of the spinal needle, and enable the surgeon to withdraw the needle and introduce it at another level, should he fail in his Hrst attempt. When the patient is admitted to the theatre, there is found ready for use a Bier's Spinal Anaesthetic syringe. This consists of a trocar and cannula, the former with its point ground accurately to fit the ol)lique mouth of the cannula. A pair of these are provided in the case along with a 2 c.cm. " Record" syringe. All have been tested and have been found to be working .smoothly, with the needle point sharp, and have been sterilised by boiling in distilled water. The presence of any such substance as soda in the water is liable to render the anfesthetic fluid inert. The most convenient form in which the tropococaine can be obtained is in ampoules, containing '06 grams of the drug, made up in a 5 per cent, sterilised solution, with '6 per cent, common salt. Prior to use, the outer surface of the ampoule is sterilised by immersing it in a solution of spirit and biniodide of mercury (1 in 500), or any other suitable antiseptic. This is washed ofl' with sterilised water. The neck of the small flask is broken, and the con- tents of it aspirated into the syringe, through one of the cannulae, which has been fitted to it. All air is then carefully expelled from the syringe, and it is laid aside on a sterile towel or, what is better, held by an assistant in a sterile swab. The patient having been placed on the operat- ing-table, he is made to sit up with his knees drawn up and his head bent to its extreme limit on his chest, so as to produce the greatest degree of posterior spinal convexity. The advantage of this attitude over that where he sits with his legs over the side of the table is that he is unable to straighten his back and so displace the point of it if a hand is placed lightly on the nape of his neck when the needle is introduced. The skin of the Ijack is again carefully cleansed by an assistant, the surgeon occupying the time in cleansing his own hands and putting on sterilised rubber gloves and the usual sterilised clothing. All being ready for the introduction of the needle, the surgeon locates the third lumbar interspace by first finding the fourth lumbar spine, which is situated at the level of a line connecting the highest points of the iliac crests. With the thumb of one hand he presses firmly against the third lumbar spine, and, taking the unused trocar and cannula from the basin of sterilised water in which it lies, he thrusts it steadily through the skin over the third interspace. He takes care to rigidly adhere to the mid line, and to carry the needle with its point at right angles to the vertebral column. In many cases no tlifficulty will be experienced in puncturing the lumbar sac, but in some the needle will be found to immediately impinge on bone. If such is the case, the needle should be with- drawn slightly, and its direction altered in a vertical plane. Sometimes it will be found that the laminae are struck when the point of the needle is deeper in the tissues. Should this occur, the point should again be withdrawn slightly, and a new channel sought for. When failure follows a second attempt, it is advisable to withdraw the needle entirely and commence from the beginning again at a diff"erent level. There is no difiiculty in recognising when the needle has pierced the membranes covering the lumbar sac. An absence of resistance is felt, and perhaps the patient feels a twinge of discom- fort. When this is accomplished, the stillette is withdrawn, and cerebro-spinal fluid flows out freely. This free escape of cerebro-spinal fluid is the only certain indication that the lum- bar sac has been pierced. It is further essential that it should be seen to flow freely before pro- ceeding with the next stage of the operation. It is not sufficient to observe a mere wetting of the needle, or to obtain fluid with difficulty on aspirating with a syringe. It is advisable to allow only a small quantity of the cerebro-spinal fluid to escape. Therefore, when the stream is seen to flow freely, the syringe is taken from the hand of the assistant, the cannula which still protects its point is removed, and the nozzle of the syringe is introduced into the second cannula, which projects from the skin of the back. The piston of the syringe is then steadily withdrawn, to allow a certain amount of the cerebro-spinal fluid to mix with the tropococaine solution in the syringe. The piston is then pressed slowly home, until all the anaesthetic fluid is driven into the lumbar sac. When this is accomplished the needle is with- drawn and the puncture wound of the skin dressed with sterilised celloidin or collodion. The patient is now allowed to lie recumbent in the dorsal position, his head raised on the pillow. Should an especially high degree of anaesthesia be desired, the table should be tilted into the Trendelenburg position for two minutes. In a few minutes the patient com- plains of numbness and tingling in his lower limbs. This gradually progresses, until com- plete anaesthesia to pain supervenes, in from seven to ten minutes. Three-quarters of an hour's anajsthesia is easily obtained by this means. After-effects are usually slight. Occa- sionally cramps are felt in the limbs, or sickness