TYPHOID FEVER 383 gitis (Arzt") due to Eberth's bacillus, or the bacillus of paratyphoid, may occur. The fact that typhoid fever predisposes to the develop- ment of arterio sclerosis has been referred to elsewhere (see Arterio-Sclerosis). Typhoid Spine.—This has attracted some attention. It is an acutely painful affection of the spine, which occasionally comes on during an attack of typhoid fever. Wilson" has collected records of 21 cases. It is almost limited to males, is predisposed to by hard manual work, and usually begins during the first fortnight of the disease. There is severe pain in the lumbar region accompanied by rigidity of the spine ; the pain is paroxysmal and radiates in different directions. The dura- tion of the symptoms varies, but there is a considerable tendency to chronicity, up to a year or more, with remissions and exacerba- tions. Pyrexia is common. There is sometimes tenderness over the spine, and in some cases scoliosis or kyphosis develops. Many of the patients are described as "hysterical"; the reflexes may be abolished; in a few cases patchy anaesthesia of the legs, or incontinence, have occurred. The best treatment is to im- mobilise the spine, and to give morphia for the relief of pain. Eecovery seems always to take place. The nature of typhoid spine is not quite certain. It has been looked on as a neurosis similar to irritable spine (Osier), to a peri- spondylitis affecting the periosteal structures (Gibney), associated with inflammation of the nerve roots (Wilson). M'Crae''' showed by radiograms that in his case new bone had been deposited in and round the vertebral column ; he regards the condition as an infective spondy- litis. Suppuration has never been observed. Ahdominal Reflex in Typhoid. — From an investigation of the abdominal reflex in 45 cases, Rolleston found that it was affected in 93 per cent., and absent in 68 per cent. It reappears as convalescence begins, and again disappears if relapse occurs. For practical purposes he divides the reflex into supra- and infra-umbilical; the latter is the first to go and the last to return. Rolleston concludes that abolition of the abdominal reflex in a patient under 50 is confined to nervous diseases and certain acute abdominal affections, especially typhoid and appendicitis; it may therefore be of diagnostic importance in cases of chronic pyrexia. Diagnosis of Typhoid.—The Widal reaction still holds the first place in everyday work. For the macroscopic agglutination test a dead culture may be used. Ficker's " typhus diagnosticum" is a dead culture sold for this purpose; other similar preparations are in the market. Agglutination tests, however, cannot be relied upon to differentiate between the various typho-colon infections. Among other diagnostic methods are :—(1) Blood cultttres.— These have been alluded to. Cultures made from the rose spots also yield a positive result in most cases, but as by the time the rose spots appear the diagnosis is usually established, the method is not of practical value. The isolation of the bacilli from the stools is difl[icult. The Drigalski-Conradi method (for details of which a special text-book must be referred to) is regarded as the most satisfactory. (2) The method of complement deviation has also been applied to the diagnosis of typhoid fever {see Immunity, Diagnosis). (3) Ocvlo-reaction.— Chantemesse introduced the method of in- stilling into the conjunctival sac an extract made from dead typhoid bacilli. Patients suffering from typhoid, and bacilli carriers, are said to react. Kraus, Lusenberger, and Russ have confirmed his observations to this extent, that they get a reaction in typhoid fever, but they also found that a good many patients suffering from other diseases (tuber- culosis, etc.) reacted. Healthy persons did not react. The test has not been much employed ; its value, if any, is negative—i.e. absence of a reaction probably excludes typhoid. A corre- sponding cutaneous test is even less trustworthy (Orszag'"). Treatment — Prophylaxis. — Apart from the steps which should be taken to combat such sources of infection as flies, dust, and bacilli carriers, a method of antityphoid inoculation has been elaborated by A. E. Wright, and was extensively employed during the South A frican M^ar. A vaccine consisting of dead bacteria is used ; two injections, with a fortnight's interval between them, are given. Inoculation is followed by some constitutional disturbance (fever, etc.) and enlargement of the adjacent glands. There is a temporary lowering of the resistance to infection, followed by a period of increased immunity lasting for about 2 years. Wright believes that the incidence of typhoid in the army was diminished by about half in the inoculated, and that the death-rate among them was about half what it was in uninocu- lated troops. "Among 19,069 inoculated soldiers there were only 226 cases of typhoid fever, a proportion of 1 to 84*4, and of these 39 died, which equals 17 per cent. Among 150,231 uninoculated soldiers there were 3739 cases of typhoid fever, that is 1 in every 40 took the disease, and the death-rate in this class was 25 per cent." (quoted by M'Crae^"). Leishman has more recently stated that the mortality among the uninoculated is 20 times as great as among the inoculated. Antityphoid serums have also been prepared, and used in prophylaxis, by Bassenger and Mayer,"- Meyer and Bergell,^^ and others. Serum Treatment.—This is as yet in the experimental stage. Antitoxic serums have been used by Chantemesseand Jez; anti- bacterial serums by others. Chantemesse