89 CANCER In mammalia some species are very liable to cancer of the breast {e.g. man, clog, mouse); in others {e.g. the cow) it is very rare. Not only this, but in animals liable to cancer of the breast the growth shows characteristic specific diflerences—scirrhus in man, connective tissue and bone or cartilage formation in the dog, delicate stroma in mice. As instances of the part played by chronic irritation in deter- mining the incidence of cancer, Bashford quotes carcinoma of the skin among the natives of Cashmere on account of the practice there of wealing next to tlie skin an oven containing burning charcoal {see Kangri Cancer) ; carci- noma of the floor of the mouth among Cingalese and Indian women from chewing betel-nut and sleeping with the plug in the mouth. It seems that cancer can arise locally in a circumscribed area, and that any part of the covering of the body can acquire cancerous properties. Nothing more than an indii'ect etiological significance can be assigned to chronic irritation and othei' exogenous factors. Chronic irritation does not cause cancer in all individuals. A prolonged or an intermittent process of regeneration and repair is intercalated before the development of cancer in tissues subject to chronic irritation. Now there is great variety among carcinoma cells all descended from normal tissue cells; some pass into one another, others do not, and are able to maintain their characters for long periods. Conceivably under the influence of chronic irritants the tissue cells may exhibit similar variations, some being capable of advanc- ing to malignant cells, others incapable. Hereditary Transmission of cancer has not been settled either way for mouse or man. For years Bashford and his associates have been breeding mice of cancerous stocks. The inci- dence of cancer in the offspring continues to obey the law of age-incidence without giving any indication of inborn predisposition deter- mining a local or constitutional liability to the disease. The pessimistic views widely held in regard to cancer are due to the general existence of an ill-defined notion that malignant growths are of " congenital origin." This belief arises (1) from the fact that certain forms of cancer are associated with congenital abnormalities; (2) from seeking for an analogy for the powers of growth of cancer in embryonic tissue; (3) from the assumption that the absence of histological variation in many cancers proves a reversion to embryonic conditions. None of these inferences is justified. The growth of cancer is essentially different from that of embryonic tissue, and is a unique biological phenomenon. When a cai cinoma is transplanted the blood-vessels and connective tissue are supplied afresh, as a reaction elicited l)y the chemotactic influence of the parenchyma cells. If the characteristic elements of a tumour possessed primary undifferentiated embryonic pi'operties, the stroma of transplanted tumour should be uniform. As a matter of fact, how- ever, it is not; tumours without any appai'ent histological differentiation elicit distinctive vas- cular and connective tissue scaftbldings, and the peculiarities of the stroma remain constant during propagation. For over sixty trans- plantable carcinomata growing in the Cancer Research Laboratories it can be said that no single one is a duplicate of another. Cells of malignant new growths, therefore, even when showing little or no differentiation, are special- ised. In the phenomena of induced resistance to inoculation, especially in the specificity of immunity folloAving the absorption of normal or cancer tissues, there is much that is opposed to the assumption that the cells are embryonic. Infectivity.—The comparative work of the past seven years has shown that cancer has no analogy with any known form of infective disease. Many tens of thousands of mice with cancer have been observed in the lal:)oratory. If cancer were communicable animals housed along with these should surely sufier. In an experience of six years, thiice the average length of a mouse's life, during which time 200,000 have been inoculated, this has not occuri'cd. Those handling the animals incur still less risk in passing many hours daily dealing with cancerous animals in a room in which 10,000 mice and rats are usually housed at one time. No case of spontaneous trans- ference of cancer in mice has been observed. Epidemics have been alleged to occur in the establishments of breeders of rats and mice. Bashford's experience of these alleged epi- demics may be illustrated by the proportions of cancer to total mice supplied by foui' estab- lishments from January 1, 1906 to October 21, 1907 :— Breeding Estab- lishments . A. B. C. D. Tumour Mice .10 6 35 18 Total Mice . . 1302 1547 9698 11,842 The number of tumours depends solely on the number of mice of cancer age; e.g. D.'s stock invariably contains a larger number of young animals than C.'s. The incidence of tumours as they occur among mice arriving at the laboratory coincides with the ageing of groups of mice. These aggregations of tumours, loosely called " epidemics," are really evidence of the importance of knowing the age-constitu- tion of the mouse population in which the cases occurred. Enzyme Treatment of Cancer.—The tiypsin treatment of cancer, brought under the notice of the medical profession by Beard {Brit. Med. Journ., Jan. 20, 1906), has had a thorough scientific test applied to it by