150 ENTEROGENOUS CYANOSIS Douglas confirmed and amplified his observa- tion. They found that while nitrites were present in the blood, they were al)sent from the intestinal contents, and that the fseces were devoid of power to conveit normal htemoglobin into methffimoglobin. Having thus excluded the possibility of an absorption of nitrites from the bowel, they conjectured that these must have a hajmatogenous origin. Further research showed that an organism of the colon group could be isolated from the blood. Gibson there- fore regards microbic cyanosis as a systemic affection arising from the bowel, with the con- tinuous pi'oduction in the blood of varying amounts of nitrites, which convert part of the haemoglobin into metha!moglol)in. IJTERATURE.—Hymans van den Bergh, Deutsche Arch. f. klin. Med., Bd. 83, p. 86, 1905.—Gibson and Cahstairs Douglas, Lancet, 14th July 1906.—GtBSON, Quarterly Journ. Med., Oct. 1907. "Enule."— The name given (by Bur- roughs, Wellcome & Co.) to a brand of rectal suppositories, encased in pure tinfoil, containing accurate doses of drugs, and of such a shape as not to be difficult of retention in the bowel; they may be obtained containing cocaine, gall and opium, glycerine, hazeline, heraisine, mor- phine, santonin, as well as predigested milk and meat. Ependymoma. — A cyst lined with ciliated epithelium found in the grey matter of the brain or in a glioma, due to fojtal inclusion of ependymal tissue or of neuroblasts capable of developing into ependyma. Epicritic Sensibility.—Sensa- tion. Epig'Ua.nin.—A purin or alloxuric body with the formula, CfiH^NsO. "Epinine."—A synthetic substance (.S : 4 - dihydroxyphenylethylmethylamine) which has been found to have the same clinical effects as the active principle of the suprarenal gland (raising the blood-pressure, etc.). E p i p 1 O i t i S.—Inflammation of the omentum. Epipiopexy.—The stitching of the omentum to the abdominal wall so as to establish a collateral circulation to relieve portal obstruction ; Drummond - Morison operation ; Chiazzi operation. Episa.rkin.—A purin or alloxuric body or base, with the formula, CjHjNjO. Eponymous Terms.—There is a steady increase in the number of diseases, of groups of symptoms, of operations of chemical tests, and of instruments and apparatus dis- tinguished by the placing of the name of the reported discoverer or inventor in front of them : some of them have r'cceived the warrant of time and custom, but it is easy to foresee that before long some sort of censorship will be required. Erepsin. — >S'ee Digestion {Intestinal Juice). Erg^adin. — A proprietary preparation which has been described as a " cod-liver oil caramel." See Report in Lancet, ii. for 1908, p. 80.3. Erg'OtOXine.—Analkaloid of ergot which produces the effects of ergot (making the uterus contract and raising the blood-pressure); it may be given in tabloid form (B. W. & Co.) alone (in doses of grain), or combined with sulphate of morphine or sulphate of strychnine. Erna.i.—A proprietary preparation con- sisting of a powder which, when placed in a bath, gives off carbonic acid (for from 20 to 30 minutes) and the odoui- of pine forests. " Ersatz " Theory.—Edinger's " offset theory " to explain the varying symptomatology of locomotor ataxia (Germ, ersatz, compensa- tion, equivalent, offset) ; it has been used to explain such an anomaly as the first appearance of inco-ordination and lightning pains in the arms instead of in the legs, as is seen in coach- men and tailors and of early symptoms of disturbance of vision in those who use their eyes much ; the theory maintains that while all the nerve tissues are affected by the causal poison, those controlling the groups of muscles most commonly in use first undergo atrophy. See Adami, Pathology, i. p. 877, 1910. Erytiiema infectiosum and Other Doubtful Exanthemata.— Everybody is agreed as to the existence of three well-defined diseases — scarlet fever, measles, and German measles ; there is, however, some reason to think that there are one, if not two, other eruptive fevers which resemble, and may at times simulate, these. The " Fourth Disease" was independently described by Dukes, of Rugby, and Filatow, of Moscow ; hence it is known in Germany as " Filatow-Dukesche Krankheit." Its characteiistic features are described by Dr. Dukes in his article ScARLET Fever in the Encyclopedia and Dictionary of Medicine (Vol. IX. p. 48). Since Dr. Dukes's original papers on the subject appeared, there has been no substantial ad^'ance in our know- ledge of Fourth Disease, and its existence is still siih judice.