128 ECLAMPSIA four terminated fatally {ibid., xxviii. p. 1329, 1904). In a grave case of eclampsia treated by lumbar puncture, Ballantyne noticed that the spinal fluid did not escape fi'eely from the needle, but rather oozed out drop by drop ; it was a fatal case {Trans. Edin. Obstet. Soc, XXX. p. 132, 1904-5). Proud {Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1906, p. 678) reported two successful cases, and Jardine used lumbar puncture along with other means, in an extra- ordinary case in which there were over 200 fits, with ultimate recovery {Jouryi. Obstet. and GyncBc. Brit. Emp., x. p. 38, 1906). Mirto {Ann. di ostet. e ginec, ii. for 1905, p. 580) did not find lumbar puncture to be founded on a solid basis of theory ; and, certainly, little has been heard of the plan during the past two years, although Audebert and Fournier {Cotnpt. rend. soc. d'obstet. de gyne<'.. et de pediat. de Paris, ix. p. 119, 1907; Ann. de gynec. et d'obstet., 2 s., iv. p. 350, 1907) have reported two cases, one of which recovered, and the other died. Renal decapsidation is the most recently suggested means of combating eclampsia, and already a considerable literature has gathered round it. It was introduced by Edebohls in 1903 {Amer. Journ. Obstet., xlvii. p. 783, 1903; 1. p. 260, 1904), and was, soon afterwards, recommended by Sippel {Zentralb. f. Gyniik., xxviii. p. 479, 1904). The view that is held regarding this surgical procedure in cases of puerperal eclampsia must depend largely upon its success in nephritis unaccompanied by pregnancy ; and it must be owned that neither experimental evidence (such as that provided by Rondoni, Policlhi., xiv., sez. chir., p. 40, 1907) nor clinical experience have absolutely established its A'alue in the latter condition. But it may be maintained that pregnancy- kidney is very diff"erent from ordinary nephritis, and that eclampsia is not necessarily uraemia, and that renal decapsulation may serve in a special way to meet some of the indications peculiar to the former morbid state. It is necessary, therefore, to judge by the results obtained in eclampsia alone. Now, E. Kehrer of Heidelberg has collected together {Zeitsch. f. Gyndk. Urologie, i. p. Ill, 1908) the records of twenty-three cases, in which Edebohls's opera- tion of renal decapsulation was performed; eight patients died, giving a mortality of 34'7 per cent., although in three of the fatal cases the death was due to complications (broncho- pneumonia, bleeding from a gastric ulcer, and late infection of the wound). In most of the instances cited the operation was performed some hours or some days post-partum, but in two it was done during pregnancy. In the two last named it was successful, in one of them vaginal Csesarean section being also carried out. Edebohls himself, the introducer of the operation into this sphere of obstetric practice, had done decapsulation in three cases, in all of which it was successful; Wiemer also had operated thrice, with one death on the thirteenth day from infection of the operation wound {Moiiatssch. f. Geburtsh. u. Gyndk., xxvii. p. 321, 1908). It is doubtful whether the principles on which this operation m'oceeds are correct; it is also doubtful whether the death-rate can be used as a strong argument against its employment, for the records show that it was in many instances only after all other means of treatment had failed that renal decapsulation or incision was tried. In future its use will probably be restricted to those grave cases of eclampsia in which the renal element is markedly present {e.g. as shown by anuria), and in which, in spite of emptying the uterus, and in spite of employing all the other means of stimulating the excretory organs, the convulsions are becoming stronger, and the general condition getting worse. These indica- tions were present, for instance, in the successful case reported by Sir Halliday Croom {Edin. Med. Journ., N. S., ii. p. 443, 1909). Under these circumstances, Edebohls's operation, if contemplated, should not be delayed more than a few hours. Bnmm considers that this opera- tive procedure should be reserved for the puerperium, and certainly it has been most often employed then; Pinard, also, would strictly limit its sphere of application {Ann. de gynec. et d'obstet., 2 s., iii. p. 193, 1906). It is noteworthy that the condition of the kidney itself found at the time of operation differed considerably ; in some cases it was tense, and protruded at once through the divided capsule, but in others it was soft and sodden (Runge, Herl. klin. Wochensch., xlv. p. 2068, 1908). As a result of the decapsulation it is commonly found that there is an increase in the flow of urine and in the excretion of urea, usually at once, but sometimes only after several hours; in this way the toxines will be got rid off more quickly. Other explanations have been advanced, such as the formation of anastomoses between the surface of the kidney and the fatty capsule, but these have not been supported by actual demonstration, and it is probable that the physiological effect described above is the only one about which we can be certain. At the time of writing, the value of renal decap- sulation, with or without renal incision, must be regarded as not accurately defined; but, granted its value, the indications for its employ- ment are very different from those guiding us in having recourse to vaginal Csesarean section. Vaginal section finds its chief indication in eclampsia occurring about the fifth or sixth month of pregnancy, with a cervix undilated and not taken up; renal decapsulation, on the other hand, is to be thought of preferably in the puerperium, when it is clear that the emptying of the uterus has not succeeded in