PARATHYROID GLANDS 287 blood during an attack of tetany is lowered. The brain is poor in calcium, and the excretion of calcium by the bowel and kidneys is increased. Leopold and Reuss found that in young animals removal of the parathyroid was followed by deficiency of lime in the skeleton. MacCallum and Halsted proved that animals which appeared to be on the point of death from operative tetany could be rescued by oral, intravenous, or sub- cutaneous administration of calcium acetate or lactate. Some of Halsted's animals were kept alive in this way during the period which inter- vened between total parathyroidectomy and the grafted parathyroid beginning to function. There is some pathological evidence of an association between lesion of the parathyroid and tetany. Facial irritability (Chvostek's sign) is one of the most constant features of the disease—it is an expression of that increased mechanical and electrical irritability of the nerves which underlies tetany ("latent tetany"). Now facial irritability according to Chvostek is not very uncommon in apical phthisis, and in one case of this kind he found tuberculous infiltration of the parathyroid. In children dying with manifest or latent tetany evidences of ha3morrhage into the glands have been demonstrated by Yanase (in Escherich's clinic) and others. Post-operative tetany in animals, and a few cases of human tetany, have been cured by the use of parathyroid extract, either by the mouth, or subcutaneoasly. Theories as to the Function of the Parathyroids.—As none of these has passed from the region of hypothesis to proof, it will be enough to enumerate the chief. 1. The parathyroids are simply a part of the thyroidal system, and have the same function as the thyroid. 2. The parathyroids have a " detoxicating" action; they neutralise a poison produced by the thyroid. On this theory there is an an- tagonism between the thyroids and parathy- roids. The grounds on which this has been supposed are—(1) parathyroid extract has a beneficial action in exophthalmic goitre ; (2) when the thyroid is ablated as well as the parathyroids, the resulting tetany is milder than when the thyroid is left behind; (3) when the thyroid is ablated the parathyroids undergo hypertrophy. (It would seem, however, equally plausible to believe that the hypertrophy is compensatory.) 3. The parathyroids regulate calcium meta- bolism. This theory may be given in the words of MacCallum and Voigtlein. "The role of the calcium salts in connection with tetany may be conceived as follows :—The parathyroid secretion in some way controls the calcium ex- change in the body. It may possibly be that in the absence of the parathyroid secretion, substances arise which can combine with cal- cium, abstract it from the tissues, and cause its excretion, and that the parathyroid secretion prevents the appearance of such bodies. The mechanism of the parathyroid action is not determined, but the result—the impoverish- ment of the tissues with respect to calcium, and the consequent hyper-excitability of the nerve-cells, and tenany—is proven." LITERATURE.—The literature is rather extensive ; a full bibliography will be found in the references marked*. *Swale Vincent and Jolly, Journ. Phys., xxxii., 1904 ; xxxiv., 1906.—Foksyth, Journ. Anat. and Phys., Ixii., 1908 ; Quarterly Journ. Med.. Jan., April, 1908. — *MacCallum and Voigtlein, Journ. Exper. Med., 9th Jan. 1909.—Halsted, Ibid.—Chvostek, Wien. klin. Wochensch., 25th April and 3rd May 1907 ; 9th Jan. 1908, and other issues of the same journal.—Yanase, Wien. Hill. Wochensch., 26th Sept. 1907.—Leopold and Reuss, Wie7i. klin. Wochensch., 28th Aug. 1908.— Erdheim, Mittheil a. d. Grenzgebiete Med. u. Chir., No. 16, 1906.—Vassalk and Generali, Arch, ital di Biol., 1895, 1896.—*RUDINGER, Ergeb. d. inner. Med. u. Kinderheilk., Bd. ii. (Berlin), 1908 (critical review). Paravagrinal Section.—»5eeUTERus, Malignant Tumours {iSchauta's Operation). Paravertebral Triangle. — See Grocco's Sign. Paraxanthin. —Oneof the purin bodies,, having the chemical formula, CyHgNjOj. Pelvis, Hsematocele and Hsematoma of.—There is little to be added to the account given of pelvic hsema- tocele and hsematoma in the Encyclopedia and Dictionary q/ Medicine, Vol. VII. p. 39 L There have indeed been marked advances in our knowledge of hsemorrhage into the pelvic tissues, but these have been made in connection with ectopic pregnancy and arc considered under that heading {vide p. 133). There is an in- creasingly strong tendency to suspect extra- uterine pregnancy in nearly all cases of hsematocele, a tendency which has been greatly favoured by the discovery of cases of primary ovarian gestation and of early abdominal preg- nancy (primary or secondary), and by the knowledge that the Fallopian tubes after tubal abortion, and even after tubal rupture, return very quickly to a normal state. Unless the tissues involved in a hsematocele be carefully examined under the microscope and found free from foetal elements, it must be very difficult entirely to exclude an ectopic gestation. At the same time it cannot yet be confidently affirmed that pelvic hsematoceles are always the result of tubal or ovarian pregnancies. Otto Engstrom {Arch./. Gynaek.,\xxxn. p. 60, 1907), for instance, has desciibed a case of intra- peritoneal hsematocele due to hsemorrhage intO' a corpus luteum; the tubes were normal, and a microscopic examination showed no foetal elements ; and in de Rouville's case {An7i. de