156 FLUOROFORM to chloroform having the formula CHF^; it is obtainable as an aqueous solution of the gas, and the dose is said to be a teaspoonful; it has been recommended in pertussis. Foeta.1 ExtrSlCt.—Fichera has experi- mented upon the action of extracts made from foetuses of from two to six months, and has made injections of these into inoperable malig- nant growths (36 cases) with good results in ten cases (five cures and five progressing to- wards cure), with no improvement in eight, and with cessation of the treatment for various reasons in most of the other cases. See Lancet, vol. ii. for 1910, p. 1151. Food Fever.—Acidosis {Therapeutic C(msiderations, Eustace Smith). Foi'ma.nnint.—A propiietary prepara- tion described as a chemical combination of formaldehyde and milk sugar ; it is recom- mended in infective conditions of the throat {e.g. diphtheritic), and it is claimed that the aldehyde set free by the action of the saliva is powerful and immediate. See Report in Lancet (i. for 1908, p. 433), also Meredith Young's article {Lancet, i. for 1908, pp. 924-928). Formates.—See Drugs, Recent. Formic Acid.—See Drugs, Recent. Formitroi Pastilles.—A proprietary preparation recommended in septic conditions of the mouth ; the pastilles contain form- aldehyde (which is set free by the action of the buccal juices), menthol, citric acid, and milk sugar. See Report in T^ancet, ii, for 1908, p. 1375. Fractures. — The changes which have taken place in recent years in the treatment of fractures may be traced—(1) To the use of the Rontgen ray shadow for revealing more or less accurately the position of the broken ends of a fractured bone before and after treatment. (2) To the introduction of the antiseptic method of treat- ing wounds, whereby, when efficiently carried out, the injui'cd parts can be exposed to view and dealt with directly without undue risk to the patient. (3) To the adaptation of massage and movement to the treatment of fractures which has Ijeen worked out by Professor Lucas Champoniere of Paris (C. W. Cathcart, Scot. Med. and Surg. Journ., 1907, xxi. p. 6). From the above succinct statement, it appears that modem practice is moving from the prin- ciple of the necessity of complete immobilisa- tion towards massage and movement, and, so far as some of the more advanced sui'gery is concerned, towards operative union of broken bones. Massage and Movement in the Treatment of Fractures is discussed by Cathcart in the above paper, and he states the following conclusions at which he has arrived:—(1) Absolute im- mobility is not essential to bony union. The ribs unite in spite of the movements of respira- tion, and wide experience has shown that the slight amount of movement necessarily involved in the daily massage of a fractured limb, and in the daily active and passive movements for a few minutes at least, of the adjacent joints, seems to hasten, rather than hinder, the forma- tion and solidification of the callus. (2) Extravasated blood in joints and among muscles and synovial sheaths leads to adhesions in its neighbourhood, as if it were itself a source of irritation apart from the irritation due to bruis- ing and laceration of these soft parts which accompanies fracture. (3) Massage, and with it occasional movements are beneficial in the treatment of fractures. They not only aid union, but assist in the absorption of effused blood and serum, restrain or prevent adhesions, maintain the nutrition of muscles ; and there- foi-e they simultaneously hasten union, and pre- pare the limb to resume its functions almost as soon as the bones are united. (4) Splints and other retentive apparatus, including extension, are required more to prevent mal-union than non-union. (5) The manipulations necessary for massage and movement can be carried out by any one who will take the trouble to understand the object of the manipulation, and who will be sufficiently gentle and careful in handling an injured and very delicate part without causing pain. Method of Performing Massage.—In recent fracture the object is to diminish swelling, allay spasm, and soothe pain. The injured limb is placed in a comfortable position and dusted with finely powdered talc, starch, or flour. Massage is begun by gently stroking the limb upwards, using a broad surface of the palm and fingers, beginning from the proximal and working down to the distal part of the injury. Pressure must not be enough to cause pain. Next the muscles overlying, or actir)g on, the broken fragments should be gently kneaded, and this should be succeeded by a repetition of the upward stroke with which the process began. The whole process occupies from ten to twenty minutes, and then the retentive apparatus is applied. Massage is repeated daily, or at intervals of one or two days, and when the acute stage has passed off the method is modified, because the olsject now is to disperse effusion, to stimulate the circula- tion, and to promote nutrition. The stroking movements are firmer and more extensive, and the kneading movements of the muscles deeper. The sitting is brought to a close by a number of stroking movements in every case. Movement as Fart of the Treatmevt of