ANESTHESIA AND ANESTHETICS 30 to give rise by its imperfect metabolism to fatty acid intoxication. The liver, being the chief seat of metaljolism of fat, must naturally be the chief organ suspected. All, or nearly all, the diseases and conditions under which operations followed by fatal symptoms of acetone poisoning have been performed are those which are known to be associated with fatty liver. Causeless vomiting in a child would, according to him, justify postponing an operation. When the patient is suspected to possess a fatty liver, diet restricted in fat should be given for some days. Such fatty acids as may be present are best neutralised by the administration of bicarbonate or citrate of soda. Mild purgation is also beneficial. As starvation will give rise to acute acetonuria, nutrient enemata should be given two hours before and immediately after an operation. {See aho Acidosis.) The treatment of post-operative intoxication should be, according to Guthrie, by venesection, saline transfusion, and the administration of bicarbon- ate of soda. This may be given either by rectal injection or subcutaneous infusion. Narcosis Anmsthesia.—The most convincing proof that can be obtained of the advantages of the induction of narcosis prior to the ad- ministration of a general anaesthetic can be observed when chloroform or ether, especially the former, is given to an animal, such as the dog. When endeavour is made to ansesthetise the unnarcotised dog, a dangerous and most unpleasant performance is witnessed, for when the violent struggling of the animal is past, frequently it is found that a state of suspended animation culminating in death follows. When, on the other hand, a hypodermic of morphia is given, one hour prior to the giving of the anfesthetic, the animal is found to pass quietly under the influence of the drug, and even chloroform proves with such animals the safest of anaesthetics. The induction of narcosis by the hypodermic administration of morphia prior to the giving of an anaesthetic has been practised for long, especially in cranial surgery. Recently this method has been more widely used, and with morphia there has been associated another drug •—scopolamine—which antagonises certain of the more harmful effects of morphia, and at the .same time augments its beneficial action. Scopolamine - Morphine. Anaesthesia. ■—• Scopo- lamine is a drug that belongs to the atropine tropene group. The greatest di'awback to its use is the inconstancy of the purity of the drug, and its lial)ility to undergo decomposition. Robert found that scopolamine, when applied to the cortex of the brain, diminished its electric irritability. It was in cases where pronounced cerebral irritability was present that it was first used in surgical operations hy Schneiderling, the ■originator of this form of narcosis. The value of the combination of scopolamine and morphine consists in the cumulative hypnotic action oa the cerebral centres. They thus possess in combination a pronounced hypnotic action, but in other respects they are antagonistic in their action. Scopolamine-morphine anaesthesia has now been practised for some years. It is usually given in combination with a general anaesthetic, and has proved eminently safe and satisfactory. Thus G-rim reports 2850 cases in which they were given prior to the administration of chloro- form and ether, without any bad effects follow- ing. He found the number of cases of pneumonia following operation was reduced to one-third of what had previously been his experience. Method.—The method of administration may be carried out as follows :—As the drug rapidly deteriorates, it is advisable that the mixture be freshly prepared prior to administration. Where cases in which this form of anaesthesia is to be practised are often coming under treatment, a stock solution may be prepared and kept for four or five days. In order to prepare this stock solution, it is advisable that some prepara- tion, such as Merck's Scopolamine, be used. A half grain of the alkaloid should be dissolved in 100 c.c. of sterilised water. From this 4 c.c. is placed in a sterile ampoule, and to this is added •033 grams, that is | grain, of sulphate of morphia. Each bottle thus contains -^th. grain of scopolamine and ^ grain of morphine. Two and a half hours before the operation one-third of the contents of the phial is given hypodermic- ally. A like amount is given one and a half hours before the operation. In the meantime, the state of the patient is carefully watched. If the pulse is I'egular, the respiration rate not unduly reduced, and the patient soundly asleep, the second dose may be omitted. In many cases, however, it is found advisable to adminis- ter the third portion half an hour before the time of operating. The patient is thus admitted to the operating theatre in an unconscious or semi-conscious condition. The preparation of the skin can usually be done without rousing the patient. If this should cause restlessness, the general anesthetic is commenced at once. In administering the anaesthetic the pupil is found usually to remain contracted. The amount of anaesthetic required is very much less than would be the case in the unnarcotised indi- vidual. Among the other advantages of this form of anaesthesia there may lie mentioned the obvious benefit of admitting the patient to the operating theatre in an unconscious state. Mental and physical excitement are thus absent. The patient also, when returned to bed, usually sleeps for an hour or more. Post - operative vomiting occurs less frequently. The drugs have also this advantage, that, when ether is administered, there is no hypersecretion of mucus to oljstruct the air-passages. In many