148 EMBRYOTOMY OR EMBRYULCIA it. Thirty-six ounces of fluid were thus re- moved, when the birth of the head and shoulders of the infant was completed with perfect ease. In Ballantyne's second case the procedure was even simpler, for the presence of a spina bifida in the lumbar region did away with the neces- sity of opening into the spinal canal; the catheter was pushed up through the defect in the vertebral column, reached the cranial cavity, and gave egress to the large quantity of fluid collected therein. In the first case the child weighed twelve pounds and in the second more than ten pounds. Both the mothers made good recoveries. It will probably be found to be necessary always to use a catheter made of metal, or to pass a sound up through a soft catheter to make it rigid (as Stone did), for Ballantyne refers to a case in which a rubber catheter was tried and failed to reach the fluid. Advantages.—The advantages of spinal tap- ping for the delivery of the after-coming head in hydrocephalus are obvious. There is (1) the advantage of operating upon parts which are external and visible; there is (2) the small armamentarium required, a knife and a catheter; there is (3) the rapidity and completeness of the evacuation of the cranium thus obtained; and there is (4) the avoidance of any further internal interference with hands or instruments when all such interference is necessarily fraught with danger, for it is by no means an easy or a safe procedure to perforate a hydrocephalic head behind the ear or through the occiput when that head is at or above the pelvic brim. By spinal tapping a grave obstruction existing above the pelvic brim is overcome bj'^ a simple operation performed outside the vulva. Emmanuel Movement. — This movement originated in Emmanuel Church, Boston, in 1905, when Dr. Joseph H. Pratt and the Rev. Elwood Worcester entered into con- joint action in the treatment of poor consump- tives. Its aim is the moral control of nervous disorders, and it is said to have been approved of by leading neurologists in America. The meaning of the work is stated to be " to bring into effective co-operation the physician, the psychologically trained clergyman, and the trained social worker in the alleviation and arrest of certain disorders of the nervous system which are now generally regarded as involving some weakness or defect of character or more or less complete mental dissociation." Great importance is attached to prayer, and the reason is also appealed to. See " Mental Heal- ing " in the British Medical Journal, vol. i. for 1910, pp. 1494-1495. This movement is not to be confused with the Church and Medical Union (of 1908) or with The Society of Em- manuel (of 1905), both of which are described in the Brit. Med. Journ. (loc. cit. supra). Emprote.—A proprietary food prepara- tion, described as " a pleasant and sustaining- powder, with tonic properties " ; an analysis is given in the Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1910, p. 1239. Encephalomyelitis. — Encephalitis associated with myelitis. Endoaneurismorrhaphy. — See Aneurism, Surgical Treatment. Endocarditis. — Attention has lately been directed by Osier and Horder to the existence of a chronic form of infective endo- carditis, associated with the presence of organ- isms in the blood stream, which may run a course of many months accompanied by few symptoms save pyrexia; which is difficult of diagnosis; and which is apparently invariably fatal. The condition must be distinguished on the one hand from malignant, or ulcerative, endocarditis (which is really an acute septic- semia with localisation in the endocardium), and on the other from chronic rheumatic endocarditis, in which protracted fever may occur. The lesion characteristic of chronic infective endocarditis is the presence of large proliferative vegetations on the valves and chordse tendinea, with none of the ulceration met with in acute cases. According to Horder the essential symptoms on which a diagnosis may be founded are: (1) the presence of valvular disease, (2) the occurrence of emboli, and (3) the detection of organisms in the blood. Any two of these make the diagnosis extremely probable. Chronic infective endocarditis usually occui's in persons already suffering from a valvular lesion. The disease begins insidiously, some- times with chills, and when once the fever is established it becomes the dominating symptom — "week after week, month after month, the daily rise of one and a half to two degrees may be the only indication there is of the existing mischief" (Osier). The temperature is remit- tent, and not very high—102'5° to 103°. Apart from the already existing signs of valvular disease there may be no symptoms referable to the heart until towards the close of the illness. Notwithstanding the infection the murmurs may undergo no alteration. Emboli are common. An interesting peculiarity is the occurrence of ephemeral spots of painful nodular erythema, chiefly on the skin of the hands and feet—the pads of the fingers and toes, the thenar and hypothenar eminences, the sides of the fingers, and the lower parts of the arms are favourite sites. Petechial erup- tions are also common. These cutaneous lesions are due to emboli. The patients suffer from progressive angemia, leucocytosis is scanty or absent, albuminuria occurs in about one-