DIABETES 115 bustion of sugai', and its conversion into fat, are simultaneously interfered with : glycosuria of various degrees, with wasting; ordinary diabetes. " 2. There is the case in which the combus- tion of sugar, but not its conversion into fat, is defective: obesity without glycosuria; masked diabetes. These cases readily develop at a later date into— " 3. Cases in which the combustion of sugar is defective, and the heaping up of carbohydrate in the form of excessive fat also begins to fail: obesity with subsequent glycosuria ; ordinary diabetes of fat people. " 4. By going a step farther, cases of group 3 become cases of group 1." Diabetic cobia is now admitted to be due to an acid intoxication from the presence of the acetone bodies, especially oxybutyric acid, in the blood. As has been said in the paragraphs dealing with ACIDOSIS (p. 21), acetonuria is brought about by cai'bohydrate starvation of the tissues, hence it is easy to perceive that in diabetes, in which carbohydrates are poorly assimilated, an abnormal metabolism of fatty acids may take place, whereby the blood is flooded with acetone and its allies. This fact is practically important, because the sudden withdrawal of carbohydrate from the diet of a diabetic may precipitate acid intoxication. When there is any sign of acidosis—e.g. high output of ammonia nitrogen, or a positive ferric chloride reaction in the urine, the proteins in the diet ought to be diminished, carbohydrate given, and alkalies administered freely. The production of the acetone bodies (ketones) is inhibited by carbohydrates in proportion as the latter are assimilated. Von Noorden points out that oatmeal is well oxidised by some patients, and is therefore beneficial in this respect. The following substances have also an antiketogenous action :—albuminates, pentoses, glyconic acid, glycerin, citric acid. Diet in Diabetes.—The modern treatment of diabetes is entirely a matter of diet. Special diabetic foods are less used than formerly. Gluten bread, in particular, often contains quantities of starch. Casein breads—e.g. casoid meal bread—are practically free from carbo- hydrate. Janeway, however, objects to them on the ground that casein increases glycosuria more than any other proteid {Amer. Jonrn. Med. Sci., March 1909.) Hutchison has intro- duced a special sugar-free milk, Mhich can be obtained from Messrs. Callard, Regent Street, W. Janeway points out that in selecting a diet two main points have to be settled: (1) the patient's tolerance of carbohydrate, and (2) the degree of acidosis. The acidosis can be measured by estimating the output of urinary ammonia nitrogen, but in everyday work it is sufficient to apply the ferric chloride test regularly. A positive ferric chloride reaction indicates the free use of alkalies (^-1 oz. of sodium bicarbonate daily), and possibly also the addition of carbohydi'ates to the diet and restriction of the intake of proteid. The patient is put on a test diet (I.), with two or three ounces of white bread daily, and the allowance of bread is gradually reduced until the glycosuria disappears, or until he has been for a week on a strict diet without the glycosuria disappearing. If the glycosuria disappears, the case is mild, and bread is added in weighed amounts until sugar reappears. The patient's tolerance of carbohydrate is expressed in terms of two, three, or four ounces of white bread, as the case may be, and the ration of carbohydrate ultimately allowed should be well within this limit (see Table of Equivalents below). If the glycosuria does not disappeai', the proteid of the diet should then be restricted (Test Diet II.); should it disappear on this diet, the case is moderately severe; should it persist, severe. In these two classes of cases acetonuria may be looked for. Having classified the case on the basis of their ability to assimilate carbohydrate, the problem is to maintain adequate nutrition without hyperglycsemia and acidosis. The normal adult obtains from 1500 to 2000 calories daily from carbohydrates, and in diabetes this, or most of this, is lost to the organism (2-4 ozs. bread = 240-480 calories). About 600 calories can be supplied as protein, leaving 2000 to be provided as fat. In order to assist in the digestion of so much fat, alcohol is required (Diets I.-IL). In mild cases, the carbohydrate allowed may be bread or its equivalent. In moderately severe cases, periodical " hunger days" (Naunyn) or " green days" (Von Noorden) should be interpolated. On a " hunger day " the diet consists mainly of broths; the diet of a "green day" is given below (Diet III.). In severe cases, it is doubtful whether adding carbohydrate to the diet will overcome acidosis, because the carbohydrate does not enter into the metabolic processes of the body, and is therefore valueless in aiding the oxida- tion of the fatty acids. Butter given to such patients should be thoroughly freed from butyric acid by washing. I.—Standard Strict Diet. Breakfast. Coffee, with 1^ ozs. cream. 2 eggs cooked with |- oz. butter. 3 ozs. ham. Lunch. Soup, with 1 raw egg. 3 ozs. steak, chicken, or lamb. 1 oz. bacon 8