328 RONTGEN RAYS AND RADIUM proliferation and produces a species of neo- plasm. The arteries contract; striped muscle undergoes colloid degeneration; elastic fibres are most resistant. Heinecke, to \yhose work so much of our knowledge of the tissue changes caused by the X-rays is due, states that the effects of radium are identical; the action on hair, skin, and testicles is the same in both cases. Therapeutic Uses.—Treves speaks of the following conditions as curable by radium :—^1. Angiomata, including "port wine" stains, nsevus, pigmented moles, hairy moles, and fibrous an- giomata. 2. Skin affections, including chronic eczema with itching, keloid following operations, and acne keloid. 3. Rodent ulcers, even when they are of old standing, adherent to bone, and have resisted treatment by Finsen light, X-rays, and cataphoresis. 4. Epithelioma of the tongue and lip and adjacent parts. In one case of epithelioma cured by radium the face was perfectly sound at the end of two years. Butcher states that small tumours wilt and wither away after a few exposures. There is first spasm of the vessels, congestion, cutaneous reaction, and then pigmentation. Good results have been reported in lupus vulgaris, particularly lupus of the mouth {Walker), lupus erythematosus, scleroma of the nose and larynx, melanoma (Lassar), tics, neuralgia, optic atrophy, tuberculous ulcer of the tongue, cancer of the oesophagus, trachoma (Dinger). Dr. Louis Wickham, in an address to the Dermatological section of the Royal Academy of Medicine, stated that naked radium gives off 90 per cent, of a, 9 per cent, of /3, and 1 per cent, of y rays ; whereas when fixed in the apparatus used for therapeutic purposes in the Paris Institute, the ratios are altered to 1 per cent, a, 90 per cent. ^, and 9 per cent. y. The /S rays are divided into soft, with little penetrative power, middle, and hard, with a penetrative power approaching that of the y rays. A lead screen filters off all the a and most of the /S rays, leaving only 10 per cent, of hard /S and 90 per cent, of 7 rays. The soft a and /S rays are those which injure the skin ; for the hard lead-penetrating 3 and y rays an elective power over cancerous tissues is claimed. This specific action has been demonstrated towards eczema, angioma, keloid, and cancer. Wickham summarises the advantages of radium under the following heads, with the reservation that they are not of universal application :—1. The treatment can be applied without inconvenience to the patient in his daily work. 2. The interposition of the lead screens renders the action of the rays on tumours slow and on healthy tissues harmless. 3. " Crossfire " application {i.e. the attack on the tumour from diff'erent sides, as, for example, in epithelioma of the lip) compensates for the great diminution in radiations caused by lead filtration. 4. The radiations exert their special action at a depth. 5. In cancer of the breast radium can—{a) cause retrogression to such an extent as to give the appearance of a cure; (6) transform an inoperable into an operable cancer ; (c) act on recurrences following opera- tion ; {d) act on cancerous glands if not too extensively involved ; (e) prolong life in in- curable cases by relief of pain, haemorrhage, and discharge ; (/) act as a prophylactic against recurrence after surgical intervention. Method of Applicatioii.—An active prepara- tion must be used—at least 10 mg. of pure radium bromide of 1,000,000 strength. The average sitting is from 20 to 45 minutes, but some authorities advise much shorter sittings —1 to 4 minutes. Radium may be enclosed in a glass or aluminium capsule, or a lead capsule with a mica or aluminium window. Treves recommends the form of apparatus used at the Radium Institute in Paris—plates coated with radium so as to utilise as large a surface as possible. The exposure is about an hour, or, if screened so as to cut off all but the ultra- gamma rays, several hours at a time. Exposure may be made daily, then weekly. Treves also quotes a statement that a solu- tion of the radium emanation injected into a mouse infected with mouse cancer cured the cancer. The idea of utilising the emanation has been adopted by exposing saline solution to radium and using the radio-active solution for douches, etc. The waters of many mineral wells—e.g. Bath — are radio-active ; possibly some part of their action is due to this. Of a number of radio-active bodies, the only ones which require mention are thorium and uranium. The latter has been employed as a plaster in skin disease (Walker). Thorium, which is the principal ingredient in incandes- cent gas mantles, was suggested by Soddy as worthy of trial in phthisis, and he described a method of producing it in a form suitable for inhalation. Thorium has been employed as an ointment in malignant and other ulcers. IfEFEBENCES.—The literature will be found in the Archives of the Mntgen Ray and similar journals. The following are some of the references in the text:— Morton, "Radium and X-rays," Brit. Med. Journ., 23rd April 1904.—Sequeira, "Dosage,'" jVn'd., 14th Sept. 1907. — Walsham, " Orthodiagraph," ihid. — M'Intyre, "Electro-Therapeutics," Md., 24th April 1904. — Treves, " Radium," ibid., 6th Feb. 1909.— M'Intyre, "Radium," ibid., 12th Dec. 1903.—Dawson Turner, " Radium," ibid.—Rutherford, Radio-Active Transformations (London), 1906. — Soddy, " Radium and Thorium in Phthisis," Brit. Med. Journ., 25th .Inly 1903.—M'Leod, "Radium and Thorium," ibid., 11th June 1904.—RoTCH, "X-rays in Paediatrics," Proc. Mass. Med. Sac, 12th June 1907 ; Journ. Amcr. Med. Assoc., 10th Oct. 1908.—Lawson, "X-rays in Lung Disease," Lancet, Ihth. July 1903.—Groedel, " Rontgen Kinemato- graphy," Deutsche med. Wochensch., No. 10, 1909 ; Brit. Med. Journ., 24th April 1909.—Gergo, "Plastic Skia-