340 SLEEPING SICKNESS V access to the cerebro-spiiial fluid. Bruce puts this period at fi'om three mouths to three years, aud the chief symptoms duriug this the first stage of the disease are polyadeuitis with early afi'ectiou of the post-cervical glauds, and in some cases irregular pyrexia. At this stage there are no other symptoms, and the lassitude characteristic of developed sleeping sickness is very insidious in its onset. Treatment.—So far as is known trjqsano- somiasis is invariably fatal in man, though there is reason to hope that in the near future a remedy will be found. The remedies which appear to be most effective in checking the disease are arsenic, mercury, and trypan-red. These act by destroying the organism. Arsenic is now generally given in the form of atoxyl (see p. 120), which is administered intra- muscularly in 5-10 per cent, solution. The initial daily dose may be "2 gram of the drug, increasing by "05 gram daily until '8 gram is being given. If there are no toxic symptoms, this dose may be maintained for a fortnight, when the drug is graduallj^ discontinued in the same manner as it was begun. Three or more such courses, at intervals of a few months, are advised. The dose of trypan-red is 5 grains; it may be given along or alter- nating with the atoxyl. Balfour reports favourably on the trypanocidal action of chrysoidine in doses of I grain daily. Some interesting work in experimental therapeutics must also be referred to. Ehrlich finds that in animals trypanosomes may be caused to disappear' temporarily by the ad- ministration of parafuchsin ; after an interval the parasites are again found, and can again be banished by a second course of treatment. As time goes on, however, the trypanosomes are found to be less and less affected by the drug, which finally loses its effect. The try- panosomes have acquired immunity to it—have become " fuchsin-fast." Such fuchsin - fast strains of tryjmnosome (a) retain their im- munity to fuchsin when injected into a second animal, (6) transmit their immunity through many generations (over a hundred, at least), but (c) are not immune to other trypanocidal drugs. In the same way " atoxyl-fast" and " trypan-red-fast" strains can be produced. These observations point to the advisability of giving trypanocidal drugs in large doses as early as possible instead of small doses spread over a longer time. It would also seem desirable to change the remedies used, as resistant strains may develop, and a remedy which proved efficacious when first administered may cease to have any trypanocidal action. What promises to be a distinct advance in the treatment not only of trypanosomiasis, but of protozoal diseases generally, has been made by Moore, Nierenstein, and Todd. The principle underlying the method the}' recom- mend is that when an infecting organism shows two distinct phases in its life history, these two phases ought to be attacked by two different drugs, for it is probable that a drug which is operative against the first will be inoperative against the second, and vice versd. These workers found (a) that one or two large doses of atoxyl drive the parasites from the blood of rats (trypanosoma brucei infection), but that fatal relapse is invarial)le ; (6) that mercurj' alone has no effect on the trypano- somes ordinarily met with in the blood, but (c) that if rats infected with t. brucei have the parasite first expelled from the blood by atoxyl, and then receive injections of per- chloride or iodide of mercury, a considerable number recover completely. Of 25 rats so dealt with, 2 died from trypanosomiasis, 4 died from other causes, 2 were killed and gave no evidence of infection, 17 survived (68 per cent.). The results of this combined treatment of sleeping sickness in man are, of course, still sub judice, but Boyce states that they are distinctly encouraging. Prophylactic Measures.—Reports from Uganda seem to render the prospect of con- trolling sleeping sickness brighter than we have hitherto dared to believe. It seems that the distribution of glossina is peculiarly limited. The favourite natural habitat of the fly is near open water, with definite banks shaded by scrub and underwood. It does not infest swamps. The natural range of the fly is limited to a belt from 10 to 30 yards broad along the water edge, and it does not leave this area except when following, and feeding on, its A^ctim. Even its "following range" does not seem at the outside to exceed 300 yards, and is usually less. Tsetse fly does not cross an artificial clearing 25 or 30 yards wide made in a natural fly belt. The chief prophylactic measures which are about to be tried, or have to some extent been enforced, in Uganda are—(1) Clear- ance of areas 30 yards broad along such por- tions of the lakeside, at fords, and other places frequented by natives. (2) Segregation of infected persons outside a fly area, so that flies may not act as carriers from them. (3) Provision of clothing for natives who are compelled to work in fly areas. (4) Prolonged treatment with atoxyl. LITERATURE.—FORDE, Journ. Trop. Med., 1st Sept. 1902. —DoTTON, Thomson-Yah Laboratory Reports, vol, iv., 1902.—Castkllani, Journ. Trop. Med., 1st June 1903. —Report on Sleeping Sickness (BruCE, NababKO, and GBKia), Brit. Med. Journ., 21st Nov. 1903.—Ehrlich and Shiga, Berl. klin. Wochensch.,29,th March, 4th April 1904. —MoTT, Brit. Med. Journ., 13th April 1904 ; ibid., 21st Dee. 1906.— Ehrlich, Berl. klin. Wochensch., Nos. 9-12, 1907.—Moore, Nierenstein-, and Todd, Bio- chemical Journ., vol. ii. p. 300, 1907.—Boyce, Brit. Med. Journ., 14th Sept. 1907.—Balfour, Second Report of Wellcome Research Laboratories (Khartoum), 1906.— Reports of the Sleeping Sickness Commission of the Royal