DRUGS, RECENT 121 treatment of trypanosome infections, and also in syphilis. Soamin is another name for the same substance. Atoxyl was originally stated to be the anilide of metarsenious acid, but Moore, Nierenstein, and Todd, who have investigated its composition, regard it as a sodium salt of amido- phenyl - arsenic acid, containing the arsenic directly united to the benzene ring. Ehrlich has independently arrived at nearly the same result. Moore and his colleagues find that it is a very stable compound, neither aniline nor arsenic being readily detachable from the mole- cule by chemical means. Its aqueous solu- tion is, however, strongly dissociable electro- lytically. Moore points out that the poisonous effects of atoxyl (of which blindness is the most serious) are not those of arsenic, and that on long continued administration neither the toxic action of arsenic on the nervous system nor that of aniline on the blood are seen. He therefore does not believe that the action of atoxyl is due to slow ionisation of arsenic, but thinks it is a direct specific effect of a complex organic ion containing both the aniline and arsenic group. The very rapid action of a single large dose of atoxyl on the parasites (trypanosomes) of a highly-infected animal is in harmony with such a view of its action, and is incompatible with the notion of a slow decomposition of the drug (see Steeping Sickness). Koch advises the use of atoxyl in doses of half a gram, given subcutaneously on two successive days. In syphilis the dose recommended is from 3 to 7 grs. every second day. If a larger doze be given, headache, dizziness, strangury, cough, and transitory or permanent blindness may be caused. /I'^/ereitt-es.—Ehrlich, Berl klin. Wochensch., Nos. 9-12, 1907 ; Moore, Nieren- stein, and Todd, Biochemical Journ. ii. pp. 316- 324, 1907. Bkomural.—The a-monobrom-isovalerianyl- urea. It is a safe and moderately powerful hypnotic, with apparently no harmful secondary actions. The dose is from 5 to 10 grs. at bed- time, in hot milk, tea, or water. It is sparingly soluble in cold water. It does not seem to be cumulative, and it is not necessary, as a rule, to increase the dose. Cacodylic Acid and its Salts.—These are organic combinations of arsenic, by which large quantities of arsenic can be introduced into the system without producing poisonous symptoms. Sodium cacodylate, containing 46-8 per cent, of arsenic, may be given in doses of | to 1 gr. ; cacodylic acid (54-4 per cent, of arsenic) in doses of f gr. once daily. The drug is given hypodermically, as a sterile solution (h-l per cent.). Cacodylates have been used in chorea, tuberculosis, and various skin diseases. They have to a large extent been superseded by atoxyl. Colloidal Metals—"Metallic Ferments" —" Electrosols."—When an electric spark is passed through pure water between terminals of a metal, minute quantities of the metal become diffused through the liquid. The solutions are dichroic, and conform to the tests for colloidal solutions. The metals exist in them in a state of minute subdivision, and the particles possess a vibratory " Brownian movement." Their action depends on their physical constitution, not on any special property of the metal used; gold, silver, platinum, pal- ladium, etc., may be employed. Robin asserts that these colloidal metallic solutions profoundly influence metabolism when injected subcutane- ously. They are said to (1) i-educe the temperature; (2) raise the blood-pressure; (3) increase the output of urea, uric acid, and urinary indoxyl ; (4) cause leucocytosis; (5) decrease the consumpt of oxygen without diminishing the carbonic acid exhaled ; (6) increase the co-efficient of nitrogenous utilisa- tion. The solutions are l)elieved to act in virtue of the extreme subdivision and separation of the metallic particles ; Robin compares the action to the radiant properties of gases in a vacuum tube in which a similar wide separation of atoms prevails. Metallic ferments have been used in pneumonia, etc., it is said, with benefit. Further investigations are required before any conclusion can be formed. References.—Robin, Lesferments ■nietalliqnes (Paris), 1907 ; Iscovesco, Presse med., 8th May 1907. FiBROLYSlN.—This is a double salt of thios- inamin and sodium salicylate, which is freely soluble in water, and is said to possess a selective action on pathological fibrous tissue, causing in it a softening process which facil- itates the absorption or stretching of such cicatricial formations. It is given by intra- muscular injection; for this purpose the ster- ilised solution sealed in glass tubes, each containing a single dose (3 grs. of thiosinamin in 37 minims), are very convenient. W. J. Stuart (Folia Therapeutica, Jan. 1909) prefers subcutaneous injection, near to the scar tissue ; the majority of surgeons prefer gluteal injec- tions, as less painful, and unattended by the slight risk of sloughing which is said to accompany subcutaneous injections. There are rarely any unpleasant after-efiects. Soon after an injection near a scar the colour of the scar becomes paler and infiltrated with serum. The strands of fibrous tissue swell, and the nuclei become separated (Mendel). " It is of vital importance, from the therapeutic standpoint, to remember that one cannot count on fibroly- sin causing actual absorption of scar-tissue ; it causes a softening, and must be supplemented by massage, baths, movements, and other mechanical means appropriate to each case, which, without the softening action of fibro- lysin, would be ineffective " (Stuart). Fibrolysin may be tried in all conditions in which it is desirable that cicatricial or pathological fibrous tissue should be softened—e.gr. operation scars.