140 ECTOPIC PREGNANCY to be suffering from extra-uterine pregnancy. The right ovary was found, at the operation, to be surrounded with clots, and the abdomen was full of blood. There was no attachment of the tube to the ovary. In the latter was an ovisac, containing a small half-macerated embryo, lying within a corpus luteum. The ovum was surrounded by villi, and these were covei-ed both with syncytium and with Langhans's cellular layer. Dr. van Tussen- broek's paper was published in the Nederl. Tijdschr. v. Verlosk. en Gynmc. (Haarlem) (vol. X. pp 187-214, 1899), and in the French Annales de Gynccologie (vol. lii. pp. 537-573, 1899) ; a translation also appeared in the St. Louis Courier of Medicine (vol. xxiii. p. 1, 1900). The publication of this report excited much interest, and attention was again drawn to the subject of primary ovarian pregnancy; some gynecologists remained sceptical, but those who were able to examine the specimen itself were convinced, and the matter was finally decided soon afterwards by the publication of a number of other cases, some of which at least were clearly shown to be of the nature of gestation in the ovary. Reference may here be made to the reports of H. Gilford {Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1901, p. 963), of E. 0. Croft {Trayis. Obstet. Soc. Lond., xlii. p. 316, 1900), of Anning and Littlewood {Trans. Obstet. Soc. Lond., xliii. p. 14, 1902), and of Mayo Robson {Journ. Obstet. and Gyncec. Brit, h'mp., ii. p. 11, 1902). The first part of the first volume of American Gynecology (1902) opened with an article on ovarian pregnancy by J. F. Thompson, with the report of a case in which an exploratory abdominal incision was made to determine the nature of an extremely tender swelling in the left side of the pelvis ; a small tumour of the left ovary was found, with the Fallopian tube projecting clear of its outer end ; a tumour about the size of a horse-chestnut was attached to the upper end of the enlarged ovary, and in it was an ovisac containing an embryo of a size corresponding to twenty-five or thirty days. In the same year Mendes de Leon and HoUeman {Rev. de gyndc. et de chir. abd., vi. p. 387, 1902) reported a case of ectopic gestation which was possibly ovarian, and in the next year Micholitsch {Zeitsch. f. Gelmrtsh. u. Gyndk., xlix. p. 508, 1903) met with two cases of ovarian pregnancy in a series of 120 operations for extra-uterine gestation. When, in 1904, Ludwig Kantorowicz {Samml. klin. Vortr., No. 370, 1904) related two new cases of ovarian pregnancy, he was able to state that, altogether, nineteen undoubted instances had been put on record, with ten probable ones and fourteen doubtful. But Kantorowicz's list was in- complete, and, since 1904, a number of additional cases have been observed, including the British ones of J. K. Kelly and Louise M'llroy {Journ. Obstet. and Gynatc. Brit. Emp., ix. p. 389, 1906), of Hewetson and Lloyd {Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1906, p. 568), of Law (a doubtful instance, Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1906, p. 866), and of J. Munro Kerr {Proc. Roi/. Soc. Med., i., Obstet. Sect., p. 268, 1907-8), and the American ones of J. C. Webster {Amer. Journ. Obstet., 1. p. 28, 1904; Trans. Amer. Gynec. Soc, xxxii. p. 122, 1907), who had previously been firmly persuaded of the impossibility of the occurrence of the ovarian variety of ectopic gestation ; and of Norris and Mitchell {Surg. Gynec. and Obstet., vi. p. 460, 1908). Weibel's case {Arch. f. Gynaek., Ixxxvi. p. 210, 1908) differed from most of the previously reported observations, in that the fcetus had been con- verted into a lithopffidion. Patliology.—The anatomical and histological evidence necessary for the proof of an ovarian pregnancy consists in the absence of the ovary of the corresponding side of the body, the presence of ovarian tissue in the wall of the gestation sac, the attachment of that sac to the uterus by the ovarian ligament, the complete freedom of the Fallopian tube of the same side and of the opposite side from any participation in the formation of the sac, and the existence of the same topographical relations of the sac as are met with in an ovarian cyst. In the presence of these conditions, which more than fulfil the requirements of Lawson Tait, the diagnosis of a primary ovarian gestation is established. The pathological details of the recorded cases have shown considerable differences. In the van Tussenbroek specimen the gestation sac was within a coi'pus luteum and had a theca interna consisting of large cells resembling those of the decidua ; inside the theca interna was a layer of connective tissue, and within that Avas the ovum covered with villi possessing both layers, syncytium and Langhans's cellular layer. In J. F. Thompson's case, also, the ovum seems to have been in a corpus luteum, but there were no decidual cells and no trace of an amnion ; there was an embryo, 1'2 cm. in length, with an umbilical cord r5 cm. long attaching it to the chorion. The case of Anning and Littlewood was also one in which the ovum occupied the corpus luteum. The ovum, however, is not always so situated. In Hewetson and Lloyd's case, for instance, an intact corpus luteum bulged into the gestation sac, from which it was every- where separated by a layei' of ovarian stroma ; in Webster's first case (1904) the cavity in which the ovum had developed may have been a Graafian follicle, but, if so, it was not a ripe one, and no formation of a corpus luteum had followed ; in Busalla's case {Arch. f. Gynaek., Ixxxiii. p. 612, 1907) the original seat of implantation was probably a corpus luteum, but it had burst, and the ovum had implanted itself in the tunica albuginea on the surface of the ovary near the site of the rupture