98 CEREBRO SPINAL MENINGITIS, EPIDEMIC demies are rare. Again, if they are identical, why does the type of posterior basic meningitis remain so constant 1 Why does it not more often assume an acute form? The only answer to these difficulties is to suppose that, for some unknown reason, the diplococcus meningitidis periodically acquires exalted virulence. Houston and Rankin's work on the opsonic and agglutinative reactions of meningococci throw some light on the relation of the two diseases, and prove that the diplococcus of Still and the diplococcus of Weichselbaum, though alike in most respects, are not quite identical. By comparing the reactions of meningococci from the Belfast epidemic with meningococci from London and Edinburgh post-basic cases, and of both these with London and Edinburgh epidemic cases, they found a post-basic meningococcus was only agglutinated and opsonised by the blood serum of post-basic cases, not by the blood serum of epidemic cases, while the meningococcus of epidemic cases was only agglutinated and opson- ised by the blood serum of that disease, not by the blood serum of post-basic meningitis. They believe that " at least one variety of Gram- negative coccus, corresponding closely in cultural characters with the true meningococcus, is cap- able of producing meningitis. This coccus, for the present, may be styled the coccus of posterior basic meningitis, or of Still's disease. It differs entirely from the true meningococcus in its opsonic and agglutinative reactions." The cor- rectness of Houston and Rankin's observations has been confirmed by other workers, and they certainly point strongly towards there being a more fundamental dift'erence between posterior basic meningitis and cerebro-spinal fever than is implied in the adjectives "sporadic " and "epi- demic." 4. Treatment.—This naturally divides itself into preventive and curative. (a) Preventive Treatment.—The line of treat- ment laid down by Lingelsheim in a recent paper, officially communicated to the Prussian Govern- ment, is as follows :—Patients are less dangerous sources of infection than healthy bacilli-carriers, because on account of the dryness of their upper air passages they excrete few bacilli. The cerebro-spinal fever patient is, so to speak, the product of a widely diffused contagium, and regulations framed solely to prevent his spread- ing the disease have little prophylactic value. Cases should, however, be removed to hospital, and the dwellings disinfected. The meningo- coccus has such slight power of resisting drying that elaborate disinfection of houses is not necessary. It is more important to examine for infected contacts, especially the more remote contacts—e.g. visitors to the household, etc. When a case of cerebro-spinal fever develops it may almost be taken for granted that the immediate contacts will have meningococci in their throats ; the chief step which can be taken I to prevent the disease spreading is to identify the more remote carriers. Hence as many as possible of the visitors to the house, especially such as suffer from catarrh, should be examined. At the beginning of an epidemic such carriers should be isolated. When an epidemic has once taken firm hold it is almost impracticable to isolate carriers, because for every case of fever there are so many carriers, and it is almost use- less to isolate a few. No satisfactory way of disinfecting the nose is known: pyocyanase (recommended by Jehle), sublimate, silver salts, zinc sulphate, permanganate, boric acid, and volatile oils have all proved unsatisfactory, how- ever applied to the nose. Contacts should be isolated for three weeks, or until meningococci can no longer be found. In addition to isolation the public should be instructed as to how the disease spreads, and persons suffering from cat- arrh ought to exercise care in the matter of expectorating, coughing, and sneezing. (6) Curative.—The recent additions to our armamentarium against the disease comprise— (1) repeated lumbar puncture, (2) the injection of antiseptics into the spinal canal, and (3) anti- meningococcus serums. (1) Repeated lumbar puncture is possibly beneficial, and certainly harmless. It may relieve the severity of the headache. Whether it has much curative effect is doubtful, but it should be employed if other remedies are not available. (2) Injections of antiseptics (lysol, 1 per cent., and collargol, 5 per cent.) have been tried. Several cubic centimetres of cerebro-spinal fluid are withdrawn, and an equal quantity of the (warmed) antiseptic solution injected. A few successes have been reported, but failures have been more numerous. On post-mortem exami- nation of patients treated with collargol, traces of the brown solution can be found at the base of the brain, showing that intra-spinal injections diffuse widely through the central nervous system. (3) Anti-bacterial serums hold out by far the best prospect of cure. Mackenzie and Martin have tried injecting the patient's own blood serum into the spinal canal. The serum contains immune body and complement, and is also anti- bacterial. The results are said to have been encouraging. Serum of convalescent patients has also been used. Flexner's serum (which is not yet procurable commercially) is derived from horses immunised against many strains of meningococci; the process requires four or five months. The serum acts chiefly on the vitality of the coccus, and increases its liability to phagocytosis. It is bacteriolytic, and to some extent antitoxic. Early administration is extremely important. Lumbar puncture should be performed, and as much fluid as possible withdrawn. In bad cases 30 or even 40 c.c. of serum are then injected into the spinal canal and the dose