1270 NATALfTY AND DEPOPULATION and longer in action. In the census returns the effect of this lowei'ed natality was masked to some extent by the fall in the death-rate; Tjut, of course, this could only be a tempoi-ary ihindrance to the coming about of the ultimate result of a falling natality, viz. depopulation, for death was inevitable although it might he postponed for a decade or so, while births might be reduced to zero at the will of the people. Immigi-ation, also, might mask the effect of a falling birth-rate, but it could hardly be regarded .as diminishing the seriousness of the decline from a national or racial point of view. Since 1901 eA'idence of a declining natality has been accumulating, not only in Great Britain, but also in Australia and in the United States of America; and within the past few years the birth-rate of Grermany, not excluding Prussia, has shown the same downward trend, for in 1876 it stood at 41 per thousand, and it fell to 33"1 in 1906. In Berlin, in 1876, natality was 454 per thousand, and in 1905 it was 24'6 ! Within the past year (1908) there has been ■evidence of an upward tendency in the birth- rate of France ; the hope may be expressed that as the fall l)egan in this country some years ago, with the other nations following suit, so, now, the rising again of the rate may extend to other countries than France. The somewhat extensive literature which has grown up round this interesting, but also alarming, tendency in modern life will be found at the end of the present article (vide p. 272). The causes of the falling birth-rate are not far to seek, however diihcult it may be found to check them. It may be that one of these causes is the greater frequency of sterility -due to syphilis and gonorrhoea in the male as well as in the female parent; it is possible that alcoholism and drug-taking have acted in a prejudicial fashion upon pregnancy ; it is generally admitted that the crime of producing abortion is becoming distressingly common; and there are other influences, such as over- eating, and especially the use of an exclusively meat diet, which may be at work (B. P. Watson, Brit. Med. Jotirn., i. for 1907, p. 193) ; but the great causes of a lowered natality are not to be found among these things, Ballantyne, in his Presidential Address to the Edinburgh Ob- stetrical Society in 1906 {Trans. A'din. Obstet. Soc., xxxii. p. 21, 1907), put the matter thus: •"The falling of the birth-rate was not due to less knowledge or less skill in the obstetricians of the day, or to want of training of the mid- wives and monthly nurses, or to the neglect of •chloroform or the forceps, or to the excessive use of these means of relieving pain and hasten- ing the second stage of labour, or, indeed, to .any other thing which lay in the power of the medical man to do or to leave undone. The ■causes laj'^ deep among the roots of the some- what artificial conditions of the sexual relation- I ships in modern society. Renan had said : ' The spread of an enlightened selfishness is, in the moral world, a fact of the same nature as the exhaustion of coal-fields is in the physical world : in each case the existing generation is living upon and not replacing the economies of the past,' and his words applied very exactly to the enlightened selfishness which was the root-cause of the falling birth-i'ate. The era of personal comfort first, and at any cost ; the age of marriages made late in life, because the entrants upon the matrimonial state wished to begin, not where their parents began, but where they were prepared to leave oft'; the period of fre- quent holidays and expensive amusement—that epoch could hardly be described as other than 'selfish,' although it might be doubted whether it deserved the honour of being entitled ' en- lightened.' In any case, such an age was not one in which frequent child-bearing was likely to be thought of with favour, or carried through with enthusiasm. If there was ergophobia in the one sex there was maieusophobia in the other." There can be no doubt that voluntary sterility by the artificial prevention of concep- tion is the great factor in the causation of the falling birth-rate to be observed in civilised lands ; the means of checking pregnancy are now better known, and their use is apparently much more fivquent now than formerly, and so families are limited to two or three children, or marriage is rendered absolutely sterile from the very beginning (Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1906, p. 269). It may be, and has been, argued that such practices indicate an increased sense of " the I'esponsibilities of parenthood, and an awakening of the conscience of the individual to a sense of the wickedness of bringing into the world children whom their parents are not able either to feed or educate properly " ; but a ready answer to this argument is found in the fact that it is in the well-to-do classes, and not among the poor and thriftless, that the fall in the Ijirth-rate is most evident. The fall is all the more sei'ious on this account, for, as Mr. Stead puts it [Revietv of Reviews, xxiv. p. 14, 1901), perhaps somewhat strongly, "if the moral and intelligent classes reduce their fami lies to ones and twos, they hand over the future to the litters who are spawned every year by the thousand by parents who have as little sense of the responsibilities of fatherhood and mother- hood as the fishes in the sea." It is surely a curious modern development of Malthusianisni by which the educated, intelligent, and success- ful classes of the community are abrogating their privileges of reproducing their like, and are leaving the replenishing of the earth to others; there is little evidence that the world contains too many of the "fit," but there is more than one sign that it is inhabited by masses of the " unfit," and it is the propagation of the former, and not the increase of the latter.