373 TUBERCULOSIS be omitted from further detailed mention. The list gives some idea of the manifold directions in which the disease is being attacked. The importance of the tuberculosis dispensary as a central point in the co-ordinated system of measures for dealing with the disease, so long and strenuously insisted on by Dr. KW. Philip, is every year becoming more widely recognised —it acts as a receiving centre, an inquiry centre, a, centre for disseminating information, and a distributing centre from which patients are drafted to hospitals ; it serves as a link between the Public Health Department and the various philanthropic agencies which are concerned in tuberculosis. There is also a growing body of opinion in favour of compulsory notification of phthisis, though voices are not wanting to warn us that such notification may, in some cases, involve hardships no less than those it is intended to remove. It seems, however, that where the provisions of the law enforcing notifi- cation are applied sympathetically and with discretion, difficulties seldom arise. In con- nection with sanatorium ti'eatment, the tendency sit present is to depend largely on general hygienic conditions and fresh air, and the fashion of overfeeding patients is passing away. Zomotherapy, or a diet containing a consider- able amount of raw meat, is the only special measure of the kind which has any considerable number of supporters. It is generally agreed that expensive and elaborate sanatoria are unnecessary; also that to make them fully effective a prolonged residence in them is essential, and that their sphere of usefulness •can be greatly extended by the drafting of discharged patients to convalescent working colonies. In Germany the provision of sana- toria for the poorer classes is met to a consider- able extent through insurance and state or municipal aid, and in this country some muni- cipal sanatoria exist. For the most part, however, the curative work in coiniection with phthisis in Great Britain falls within the sphere ■of philanthropic agencies rather than that of the State ; municipalities only admit their responsibility in so far as the isolation of infectious advanced cases in rate - supported hospitals is concerned. In no branch of medicine is there more widespread interest, and in none is the prospect so hopeful as in the crusade against tuberculosis. Human and Bovine Tuberculosis.—The relationship of human and bovine tuberculosis has been the object of much investigation since Koch's famous dictum in 1901. At the Tuber- culosis Congress in London in that year he advanced the view that human tuberculosis •cannot be transmitted to cattle, and that, if man be at all susceptible to bovine tuberculosis, the susceptibility is not pronounced—the in- fection of human beings is but a very rare occurrence. Kossell sums up Koch's teaching as follows :—" The tuberculosis of man and the pearl disease of cattle owe their wide distri- bution not to the same germ. By injections of cultures of tubercle bacilli under the skin of cattle it is possible to determine whether one has to deal with a germ from a human or a bovine source. The tubercle bacillus derived from man cannot produce tuberculosis in cattle. Whether the bovine bacillus produces tuber- culosis in a human being has not yet been definitely proved, but even if infection of humans by the bovine germ is possible, it is certainly of rare occurrence. To take measures against this remote possibility is therefore not advisable " (nicht fiir gehoten). The following three questions are then at issue, the third being subsidiary to the first and second :—(1) Is bovine tuberculosis spread by the same germ as human tuberculosis? (2) Are human and bovine tuberculosis reciprocally infections'? (3) If infection of human beings with bovine tuberculosis occurs, is this a frequent occurrence'? At the present time the evidence is that the bovine and human organisms are different; that human and bovine tuberculosis are reciprocally infective; and that, subject to certain qualifi- cations, bovine tuberculous infection is fairly frequent in man. In amplification of these statements only the barest outline of the evidence can be given here. Second Interim Report of the Royal Commission on Tuberculosis (1907).—The commission is able to assert that animals and man can be reciprocally infected. Two types of bacillus, the bovine and the human, can be distinguished, but the difference between them is, in the main, one of virulence. The histo- logical and anatomical features of the lesions caused by each are the same, except in degree. The bovine type of bacillus is much more virulent than the human type. The viruses obtained from cases of tuberculosis in man were found to be divisible into two types, one corre- sponding to the human type of bacillus, the other to the bovine type. This fact is of par- ticular significance when the source of the two groups of viruses is considered. Of 14 cases yielding a virus cori'esponding in all respects to the bovine type, 10 were primary abdominal tuberculosis, 3 cervical glands, 1 phthisis. Of 40 cases yielding virus of the human type, 8 were primary abdominal tuberculosis, 10 respiratory tuberculosis, 9 bone and joint disease, 2 genito- urinary tuberculosis, and the rest cervical glands. Most of the cases, therefore, yielding a virus resembling that of bovine tuberculosis, were instances of alimentary infection ; most of the other group were instances of infection arising outside the alimentary tract. The pos- sibility of the two types of bacillus being, or becoming under suitable conditions, inter- changeable, is still under investigation by the