399 X-RAYS IN SKIN DISEASES Lichen Planus.—Many itchy eruptions are also benefited by X-rays, both as regards the eruption and the itching. This is especially the case in lichen planus. In the moi"e chronic forms a few exposures to the rays often give wonderful relief from the itching which is so troublesome in such cases ; but it requires repeated exposures to cause a disappearance of the eruption. Eczema.—The only form of eczema in which X-rays are to be recommended is in the chronic patchy form where isolated spots resist all other forms of treatment. Heie, too, in addi- tion to having a good effect on the eruption it gives great relief from the itching. For such cases only small doses should be given. Pruritus Ani.—In pruritus ani X-rays also often give great relief, but care must be taken not to expose the genital organs. Warts, Molluscum Contagiosum.—Mul- tiple warts and molluscum contagiosum, especi- ally the latter, yield rapidly to a few applications of X-rays, and disappear in a surprisingly short time. NyEVl.—In nsevi varying results have been obtained. Some pigmented nsevi yield to X- rays, but Finsen light or a combination of X-rays and Finsen light give better results. The angiomatous nsevi are also susceptible to X-ray treatment. The superficial ones do better than the deeper ones. These nsevi, of coui'se, cannot be destroyed without giving sufficient doses to cause some atrophy of the overlying skin. Mycosis Fungoides.—Of the rarer skin diseases the one in which X-rays can be de- pended on to give valuable assistance is mycosis fungoides. The rapidity with which large tumour masses in this condition disappear after exposure to X-rays is very astonishing. Small doses should be given, as a too rapid breaking down of the tumours with a rapid absorption into the system of the broken-down products is apt to cause a sudden toxtemia with a fatal result. REFERENCES. — Morris and Dore, Light and X-ray 7Veatnient of Skin Diseases, 19U7.—Wetteea, Handbuch der Rontgen Therapie, 1908.—Jamiesun, Brit. Journ. Derm., Jan. 1903. Zenker's Degfeneration. — The waxy degeneration of muscle, e.g. in typhoid fever, in diphtheria, and as the result of blows. Zenoni Test.—A test for mucin and ! albumin in the sputum; the sputum spread j on a cover-glass is treated with alcohol for fifteen minutes, and then stained with a half- saturated aqueous solution of safranin; the albumin is shown as red and the mucin as yellow. See Webster, Diagnostic Methods, p. 5, 1909. Zestocausis.—'S'ee Atmocausis. Ziehl-Neelsen Method. —A method of testing for tubercle bacilli in sputum, I in which the smear is first stained with carbol- I fuchsin solution and then decolorised by, for example, a solution of sulphuric acid in 95 per cent, alcohol; then it is washed in water and counterstained with Lofller's methylene blue ; the tubercle bacilli appear as bright red rods. See Webster, Diagnostic Methods, pp. 19-20, 1909. Zomotherapy. — See Tuberculosis [Diet, liaio Meat). Zotal.—A proprietary disinfecting fluid preparation; bacteriological tests along with its chemical and physical characters are given in detail in the Lancet, ii. for 1909, p. 1522. Zygote. — The result of the union of gametes, the impregnated ovum. Possibly, as Berry Hart suggests, there are two kinds of zygotes, male and female ; then the union of a sex spermatozoon and a non-sex ovum will form a male zygote, and the union of a sex ovum and a non-sex spermatozoon will form a female zygote. In the terminology of Mendelism zygotic segregation means the sifting out or segregation of the unit characters in the zygote. Zykloform.—The iso-butyl ester of para- amido-benzoic acid, only slightly soluble in water, but readily so in alcohol and ether; it is recommended as a "non-toxic, mildly drying, non-irritant, prompt, and strong local anass- thetic "; but see Brit. Med. Joum., ii. for 1910, p. 1878, for critical discussion. Zymophore.—-S'ee Immunity {Bhrlich's Theory).