TUBERCULOSIS 374 commission, and no definite statement can yet be made. The conclusions at which the com- missioners arrive are : — (1) That a certain amount of tuberculosis, especially in children, is directly due to infection with the bovine bacillus. (2) That tuberculous milk is clearly a cause of tuberculosis, and fatal tuberculosis, in man. (3) That a very large proportion of tuberculosis contracted by ingestion is due to bovine bacilli. (4) That more stringent measures are required to prevent the sale or consumption of milk from tuberculous cows. At about the same time as the appointment of the English commission, a German commis- sion set to work on the same lines. According to the first report {Tuherkulose-Ai-beiten aus deni Kaiserliclien Gesundheitsamte, Heft I. (Berlin), 1904) the scheme of work planned was as follows :—Separation of fresh strains of bacilli from human tuberculosis, and inocula- tion of calves. Inhalation experiments on calves and sucking pigs with the more viru- lent cultures. Testing the effect of passing weakly virulent strains through goats. Similar observations with bovine tuberculosis. It was shown that subcutaneous inoculation of calves with bo^^ne bacilli caused fatal generalised tuber- culosis. Forty-one strains of human bacilli were injected into 57 calves; no fatal case of tuberculosis followed. The calves inoculated with human bacilli fell into three groups. I. Shoulder glands showing no permanent change, or only traces of healed tubercle; no extension of the infection. II. Localisation less distinct; other adjacent glands affected. III. General disseminated tuberculosis was produced by four strains of bacilli. Of these four strains, one was from the lungs, three from mesenteric glands; all were derived from children. Of ten cases of primary alimentary infection, three appeared to be due to the bovine virus. The subject was reviewed by Kossell, one of the members of the German commission, at the Tuberculosis Conference of 1905, who came to the following conclusions :— L Bj^ bacteriological investigation of tuber- culous lesions in human beings, cattle, and swine, two types of tubercle bacilli can be detected which may provisionally be called typus humanus and typus bovinus. 2. The widely-spread tuberculosis of cattle is to be traced exclusively to infection with tubercle bacilli of the typus bovinus. 3. Swine are susceptible in a high degree to the tubercle bacilli of the typus bovinus, in a lesser degree to those of the typus humanus. 4. The tuberculosis of human beings chiefl}^ arises from infection with tubercle bacilli of the typus humanus, which is transmissible from man to man. 5. Tuberculous lesions in human beings can be produced by tubercle bacilli of the typus bovinus. 6. Tubercle bacilli of the typus bovinus can be transmitted to human beings by food derived from tuberculous animals, especially by milk of cows affected with tuberculosis of the udder. 7. The part played by infection from bovine sources in spreading tuberculosis in man is small in comparison to the danger threatening from a consumptive human being. The following resolution was adopted by the Congress :—" The congress, after hearing the exjjos'e of the most recent investigations, de- clares that it is not only indispensable to avoid contagion from man to man, but also to pursue the prophylaxis of bovine tuberculosis, and to continue to take administrative and hygienic measures to avert its possible transmission to our species; and finally, that it is desirable to be on our guard against all forms of animal tuberculosis." In the discussion on bovine and human tuberculosis at the Washington Con- gress of 1908 the problem was not seriously influenced. We must put aside for the time being, as still sub judice, such questions as the exact meaning of the cultural and other differences between the bovine and human bacilli—are these different species 1 are they merely different types'? or is there but one tubercle bacillus Avhich may acquire modifications under suitable circumstances, or in appropriate environment, and lose them again when conditions change 1 Before these questions can be answered a great deal of painstaking and minute research will be required. It is practically more important at present to try and give some answer to the third ques- tion raised at the outset, viz.. Is infection of man with the bovine bacillus a frequent occur- rence 1 Koch's position is, that desirable as it msbV be to eradicate bovine tuberculosis, the prevention of human tuberculosis depends essentially on checking its transmission from man to man through the agency of bacilliferous sputum. He objects to this central preventive measure being complicated by insistence on precautions directed towards securing a pure milk supply, and to the stamping out of bovine tuberculosis. As regards phthisis, there is very little direct evidence that it is ever due to infection with the bovine virus. The cases in which bovine bacilli have been isolated from the cavities in lungs are few, and not free from doubt. On the other hand there is good reason to think that primary abdominal tuberculosis is not uncom- monly of bovine origin. The findings of the Eoj'al Commission on this question have already been mentioned. Weber, one of the German commission, in a later report, states that of 84 cases of tuberculosis in children which were exhaustively studied, no less than 21 were infected by the bovine bacillus; 6 of these were tuberculosis of the cervical glands, while 13 were cases of primary abdominal tuber-