LYMPHANGIOPLASTy 254 silk threads being buried in the subcutaneous tissue to form an artificial lymphatic system for draining the part. See Sampson Handley, Lancet, i. for 1908, pp. 783, 1207 ; ii. for 1908, p. 1671 ; i. for 1909, p. 543; i. for 1910, pp. 977-979. Lymphopenia.—The condition of the blood in which there is a reduction in the number of lymphocytes ; it is the opposite to lymphocytosis. Lyssemia.—See Blackwater Fever (Experimental IIamiolysis). Lytic Action.—Destructive action, as seen in haemolysis when certain sera cause break- ing up of the red cells, etc. IVI'Gavin Operation.—The wire fili- gree operation recommended in cases of ventral and inguinal hernia of large size and with wide separation and atrophy of the muscular and fascial structures. IVI ac rocy tase. —In MetchnikofF's theory of immunity the complement (cytase) developed by the macrophages (hyaline leucocytes, endo- thelial cells, fixed phagocytes) is called the macrocytase (Gr. /xazjos, long; /curoe, the body). Macron UCleuS.—The larger of the two nuclei of the infusorian cell, and the one which disappears during conjugation and fertilisation. IVIacrophag^eS.—The large phagocytes of Metchnikoff's theory of immunity, including hyaline leucocytes, endothelial cells, and fixed phagocytes (Grr. //.axoo'c, long; fayzh^ to eat). iVIadeiun^'s Disease.—/^ao^Mts cur- vus.—This condition was originally described by Madelung as a spontaneous luxation of the wrist joint, which is produced slowly, and little by little becomes worse without the occurrence of trauma or inflammation. Recent observa- tions, particularly X-ray examinations, have, however, shown that there is no true luxation but a curving forward of the lower epiphyses, or lower end of the diaphyses, of the radius, which results in a displacement forwards of the carpus and hand, subluxation of the inferior radio - ulnar articulation, and masked dorsal projection of lower end of the ulna above the anteriorly displaced carpus. There is impairment of muscular power, but not much interference with movement. The disease usually appears between the twelfth and eighteenth years; it is more common in females than in males, and may be unilateral or bilateral. From its commencement about two years are required for its full development, •and during this stage it is painful. Thereafter there is no pain, only permanent deformity. The etiology is uncertain; heredity is said to be a factor. Among the theories which may be mentioned are congenital laxity of the inferior radio-ulnar articulation, rickets, trauma, and tuberculosis. The treatment during the active stage is rest; when the disease is fully developed, osteotomy (Marsan, Arch, generalis de chirurgie, 1908, ii. p. 472 ; Estor, Rev. de chirurgie, 1907). iVIagrnesium Sulphate, Intra- spinal Injection.—See Tetanus. Mag^Olan.—This is calcium anhydro- oxydianiine-phosphate, an organic phosphorus compound, which has been used in diabetes mellitus. See Nachmann, i¥ed. Bl., xxix. p. 579, 1906 ; ^Ertzl. Rundschau, xvi. p. 221, 1906. Malakin.—A body of the phenacetin group, l:)eing a compound of salicylaldehyde and phenetidin; it is in the form of yellow crystal- line needles, almost insoluble in water; the dose is from 10 to 30 grains; and the effect produced is analgesic rather than antipyretic. See Fortescue-Brickdale, Newer Remedies, p. 217, 1910. Mai lei n Test.—See Immunity. Maltase.—An enzyme which splits up maltose (CiaHojOn) into two molecules of glucose (CjHioOi;), and which has also the power (in a certain measure) of synthetising glucose into maltose. See Digestion {Intestinal Juice). Malted Foods.—The composition of various malted foods, i.e. foods consisting of a farinaceous material {e.g. wheat flour) mixed with malt flour {i.e. flour obtained by milling malted barley), is given in the British Medical Journal, i. for 1910, p. 86; the list includes Allenbury's Malted Food, Fry's Malted Cocoa, Horlick's Malted Milk, Paget's Malted Farina, and others. Malt Extracts.—Analyses of various proprietaiy extracts of malt are given in the British Medical Jotirnal (ii. for 1909, pp. 1477- 1478); they include the Kepler Extract of Malt, Trommer's Extract of Malt, Allen and Hanbury's Malt Extract, D.C.L. Malt Extract, Oppenheimer's Cream of Malt, Maltine, Diamalt, Standard Malt Extract, Bynin, Standard Liquicl Malt Extract, and Hotf's Malt Extract or Homax; the making of malt extract is thus described: " It is prepared by ' mashing' crushed malt, as in the first stage of the brew- ing of beer; the malt is infused in warm water for some time, and the liquor is then drained ofl' and concentrated in vacuo to about the con- sistence of treacle ; during the mashing process