251 LUNGS AND THOEAX, SURGERY OF THE production of pneumothorax, and lays down the following rules for its performance:—(1) It must be large enough to immobilise the lung and abolish the breath sounds. (2) It must be brought about gradually lest (a) the mediastinum be suddenly displaced, and {h) large quantities of suddenly dislodged sputum cause an aspiration pneumonia; (3) during the whole period of treatment the pneumothorax must be maintained at the same level by repeated small additions of nitrogen as needed. For a generalreview of the subject see,Bunzl, Centralhl. f. d. Greiizgebeite d. Mediziii u. Chirurgie, 1908, No. 3. The consensus of opinion is that the operation is only permissible in carefully selected cases; it is very rarely performed nowadays. Total Mohilisationof theChest Wall by Multiple Rib-Resection (^Friedreich's Pneumolysis).—This is a heroic operation, by no means free from danger. Friedreich resects all the ribs from the second to the tenth inclusive, and from the anterior cartilages to the spine. The pleura must not be punctured. The work must be done rapidly owing to the weakened condition, and the defective circulation and respii'ation— Friedreich is said to be able to perform the operation in less than half an hour. After operation the diminution in the size of the lung is considerable, the volume being reduced by one half or two-thirds. The operation has only been performed in a small number of cases ; it would seem only to be indicated in patients in whom the disease is unilateral and progressive, whose nutrition is fair, and where all ordinary treatment has failed to check the disease. As minor forms of mobilisation, we may mention Landner's method—the removal of portions of ribs and periosteum along the axillary line, and local removal of ribs and periosteum over diseased areas. Empyema.—A number of papers dealing with the operative treatment of empyema have ap- peared. In most of these the use of various mechanical methods of favouring drainage and promoting expansion of the lung by means of suction is discussed. The idea of employing suction is by no means new, and the number of modifications of comparatively old forms of apparatus seems to prove that, simple as the method is in theory, its practical application involves considerable difficulty. Williams {Lancet, 29th Sept. 1906) fits a rubber valve on the aspirator tube which passes through the stopper of the bottle. The object of this valve is to prevent air from passing back into the pleura during thoracocentesis. This accident, however, can scarcely occur if ordinary care is exercised, and if one of the stopcocks only is allowed to remain open at a time—the proximal after the bottle is exhausted, and the distal when the pump is being used. Williams also describes an empyema tube consisting of a metal shield, rubber tube, and valve. The valve is of the ordinary form used in enema syringes. The principle of this mechanism is that when once properly applied (a simple matter) the patient pumps his own chest out, the diaphragm being the piston, and the respiratory movements the power. The A'alve allows of the egress of gas, and prevents the reflux of air or fluid. The tube is liable to be blocked, but can easily be changed. The end of the tube to which the valve is attached is kept immersed in water. Bryant's apparatus {Surgery, Gyncecology, and Obstetrics, Aug. 1906) consists of a suction elastic bag, resembling a Politzer's bag, connected by a stopcock to a drainage tube. It is not easy to seal the tube efficientlj' to the chest wall, and on this point, of course, the successful applica- tion of suction drainage depends. Adhesive plaster, rubber tissue applied with chloroform round the margins, wet absorbent cotton, oxide of zinc ointment, have been used. A preparation made by Johnson & Johnson, known as adhesive rubber dam, is said to fulfil all requirements. In using this apparatus the amount of suction can be varied by altering the size of the bag and by regulating the stop- cock. Schley {Amer. Journ. Med. Sci., 1908, Jan.) advises a similar apparatus. Tennant {Jouryi. Amer. Med. Assoc., 16th Nov. 1907) recom- mends a special form of two-way drainage tube, which can be manufactured in a few minutes from an ordinary drain. The method is simple, but can scarcely be rendered intelligible without diagrams, for which, therefore, the original should be referred to. Bencker advises Henry's rubber drainage spool for empyema. The spool consists of a rubber drain H to 2 ins. long, with a lumen of h in., at each end there is a flange about 2 ins. in diameter. One is compressed with a pair of forceps and thrust through the incision, and lies against the pleura. The advantages of the spool are that the discharge from the empyema flows directly into the dressing without coming in contact with the wound ; the tube cannot slip ; the tissues caimot block the tube. The general question of empyema from a surgical point of view is discussed by A. E. Morison in the Edinburgh Medical Journal, March 1908. In an editorial note in the Practical Medicine Series, ii., 1908, p. 222, edited by John B. Murphy, the practice of aspiration followed by the injection of a few drachms to 2 oz. of 2 % formalin in glycerin is recommended in all empyemas which do not communicate with the bronchi or hollow abdominal viscera. The aspiration may be repeated in two or three days, l3ut a second injection should not be performed before a week has elapsed In post-pneumonic empyemas, particularly in children, one injection usually suffices for a cure. " Absorption of the purulent