192 IMMUNE BODY Immune Body.—A synonym of ambo- ceptor. See Immunity. Immunity. I. Immunity— 192 Antibacterial Action . . .192 (1) Bactericidal . . . .192 (2) Agglutinatio7i. . . . 193 (3) Opsonic Action . . .193 Theories of Immunity . . .194 Supersensitisation . . .196 Serum Disease . . . .196 II. Immunity Diagnosis— . . .197 Classification . . . .197 {I) Biological Blood Test . . 197 (2) Sero-Diagnosis of Syphilis . 198 (3) Opsonic Index. . . .199 (4) 7\(,berculin Tests— . . .200 Subcutaneous Injection . 200 Cutaneous Reaction . .201 Ophthalmo-Reaction . ■ . 201 In only a few of the diseases due to bacterial invasion is a soluble toxin formed. In most instances we have a rapid proliferation of the organisms within the body, and their action by the production of intracellular toxnis. In the former group of infections, cure may be brought about by a simple neutralisation of the toxin circulating in the blood (as in diphtheria) ; in the latter series, what is essential is the de- struction of the bacteria themselves. Antibacterial Action.—This may be con- sidered under three heads:—(1) Bactericidal action, including lysogenic action in general; (2) agglutination ; (3) opsonic action. (1) Bactericidal and Lysogenic Action.— Pfeiffer discovered that if an animal was im- munised by inoculation with dead cholera bacilli, and if, thereafter, a lethal dose of living bacilli was introduced into the peritoneal cavity, the organisms were killed within a relatively short period. He further showed that on in- jecting into a normal animal living cholera vibrios along with anti-cholera serum, which had been heated to 58° C, and had, in conse- quence, lost its bactericidal power in vitro, the same destruction of the organisms took place. He inferred that the inactivated anti- cholera serum did not in itself contain the bactericidal element, but that it merely, in some way or other, enabled the tissues of the non-immune animal to cope with the bacteria. The nature of the defensive mechanism was further elucidated by Bordet, who found that, while no bactericidal action occurred in a mixture of heated anti-cholera serum and vibrios, the addition of fresh serum from a non-immune animal caused bacteriolysis, but that if the fresh serum had been previously heated it lost this power. Bordet thus proved that two substances are concerned in bactericidal action —one, in the fresh serum, which is thermo- labile, and one, in the immune serum, which is thermostable. The thermolabile body is called the complement {alexin), the thermostable body the amboceptor, copula, or immu7ie body. In what follows we shall adhere to the terms complement and amboceptor. The amboceptor is a specific substance—a mixture of fresh serum with inactivated anti-cholera serum being bactericidal to cholera vibrios only. Bordet also pointed out that the phenomena following the inoculation of one species of animal with the red blood corpuscles of another species present many analogies to the above, and it is on this account, as well as because blood corpuscles form a very convenient means of investigation, that so much work has been done on hsemolytic sera. If an animal A be immunised by repeated inoculation with the corpuscles of another species B, the serum of A acquires the power of dissolving B's corpuscles. The action is specific, or nearly so ; that is, the corpuscles of other species are not, as a rule, aff"ected. This hsemolytic serum can be inactivated by heating to 58° C, and can again be activated by adding fresh normal serum, but not by adding normal serum which has been heated. Haemolytic serum, therefore contains thermostable amboceptor and thermo- labile complement; normal serum contains complement only. The relations of amboceptor and complement have been still further studied by Ehrlich and Morgenroth. The following experiments illus- trate the methods employed in researches of this nature :—A mixture of sheep's corpuscles and inactivated hsemolytic serum was centri- fuged, the fluid (A) decanted, and the cor- puscles (B) washed :—(1) A-(-sheep's corpuscles + fresh normal serum = no haemolysis ; there- fore the amboceptor originally present in the hsemolytic serum has been removed from it. (2) B-f-fresh normal serum = haemolysis ; there- fore the amboceptor of the inactivated hsemo- lytic serum has transferred itself to the corpuscles. Having thus demonstrated that the amboceptor interacts with corpuscles, the next step is to ascertain whether complement does so also. A mixture of fresh goat's serum and sheep's corpuscles was centrifuged, the fluid pipetted off" (C), and the corpuscles washed (D) :—(3) C + inactivated hsemolytic serum-f sheep's corpuscles = hsemolysis ; there- fore C still contains complement. (4) D-f-in- activated hsemolytic serum = no hsemolysis ; therefore the corpuscles have not attracted complement. There are thus two partners in the work of hsemolysis and bactericidal action —the specific amboceptor present only in the serum of an immunised animal, and the com- plement present in the serum of both normal and immunised animals. Is there only one, or are there many,