296 POLIOMYELITIS ANTERIOR ACUTA Heine-Media's Disease. 7. Puncture fluid clear. 8. Meningococci absent. 9. Ijyinphocyte infiltration of pia. Epidemic Meningitis. Usually turbid. Present. Leucocyte infiltration. 8. Abortive forms characterised by fever, . headache, and stiffness of the neck can only l^e diagnosed, even with probability, during the prevalence of epidemics. I'JFrognosis.—The most important points in prognosis as to life are—(1) The Landry and bulbar types are often fatal. (2) The general mortality (12-1 per cent.) is fairly high. (3) The mortality rate increases with the age of the patient. Up to 11, it is about 10 per cent. ; from 12 to 14, 28 per cent. ; from 27 to 29, 33 per cent. (Wickmann's statistics). (4) Most deaths occur on the fourth day. As opposed to Medin's extension of the term poliomyelitis anterior acuta to cover the above wide range of atypical cases. Berg, basing his opinion on the New York epidemic of 1907, asserts that sporadic anterior poliomyelitis is radically different from the epidemic disease. He points to the difference in the morbid anatomy, in the symptomatology, in the age of the patient, in the mortality, in the presence of infection in one case, and its absence in the other, as justification for distinguishing clearly between sporadic anterior poliomyelitis and epidemic meningo-myelo-encephalitis. LITERATURE.—Holt and Bakti^ktt, Amer. Journ. Med. Sci., May 1908.—Wickmann, Ziir Kentnisse d. Heine-Medinschen Kranlcheit (Berlin), 1907. — Woll- STEiN, Journ. Exper. it/erf., July 1908.—Ibrahim, Deutsche Zeilsch. f. Nerveii/ieilk., Bd. xxi.x. p. 113, 1905. — Oppen- HEiM, Ibid., Bd. xxiv. p. 325, 1903.—Berg, Med. Rec. (New York), 4th Jan. 1908. PolioinyeMtis, Acute Anterior —Polioencephalitis, Acute.— The latter term is the more correct one, so far, at least, as the epidemic variety of the disease is concerned, for in these cases the brunt of the lesions is by no means exclusively borne by the anterior corniia, but they are, as has been said, widely distributed throughout the nervous system. Although the exact nature of the cause of the disease is not yet known, great advances have recently been made towards the solution of the problem. We now know that acute polioencephalitis is one of the infective diseases, and further, that the infective agent is not one of the ordinary micro-organisms, because it passes through a Berkfeld filter. The disease has been successfully communicated to animals —apes being by far the most susceptible to it. The infective agent employed is an emulsion made from the spinal cord of an acute case, inoculated into the subdural space or sciatic nerve. Serial transmission through animals has also been accomplished. Paralysis occurs in four or five days, as a rule; it may be delayed, up to a period of forty-six days. The disease is fatal in about 40 per cent, of cases ; some animals recover with residual paiulysis. The changes in the nervous system are identical with those of the disease in man. The organism has not yet been cultivated outside the body, though Flexner has had some interesting results suggesting the possibility of this. In all probability the naso-pharynx is the site of entry. The nasal mucosa has been shown to contain the infective agent, and Leiner appears to have succeeded in infecting animals through this channel (Flexner, Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc., 13th Nov., 4th Dec. 1909 ; 1st Jan., 12th Feb., 2nd April 1910 ; LcA'aditi, Comptes rendus, 29th Nov. 1909 ; Eomer, Munch. Med. Woch., 15th Feb., 8th Mar., 15th Mar. 1910 ; Leiner, Wien. Hin. Woch., 3rd Mar. 1910). Polonium.—A radio-active metallic ele- ment which may be obtained from pitchl)lende, one-tenth of a milligramme beinggotfromseveral tons of pitchblende ; it is so-called from the Polish nationality of Madame Cui'ie, one of its two discoverers (tlie other being Prof. Curie) in 1898 ; the radio-telluiium of Prof. Marckwald. Poltopha.g'y.—The thorough and pro- longed chewing of all food before it is swallowed. See Higgins, Humanictdture, New York, 1906. Polychromasia.— A synonym of poly- chromatophilia, the tendency which erythrocytes possess, in some pathological conditions, of taking up basic stains. See also Polycythemia Vera {Fntliology). Polycythsemia Vera.—This is only one of the names given to a rare disease of middle life, which is characteiised by splenic enlargement and a persistent excess of the red corpuscles of the blood. The symptom- group was first described by Vaquez in 1892 ; important additions have been made to our knowledge of the disease by Osier, Tiirck, Parkes AVeber, and others. In France it is sometimes known as Vaquez's disease; in Amei-ica and elsewhere as Osier's disease; it has also been called "chronic polycythsemia with cyanosis," " splenomegalic polycythaemia," and ''myelogenous polycythaemia." Turck suggests the name " erythi semia," and for several reasons this seems the best proposed; it brings out the analogy to leukaemia (for polycythaemia vera is probably a primary dis- ease of the marrow), and the contrast with '• eiythrocj'tosis," a term which may be applied to any secondary increase in the red corpuscles, compai'able to leucocytosis. Clinical Featurks. — The disease is not hereditary ; the sexes are about equally liable ;