199 IMMUNITY Wassermann's test, therefore, promises to aiford a means by which the efficacy of treatment can be estimated, and the need for its renewal determined. Since the original test was intro- duced, it has been simplified in various ways. Some of these newer modifications are discussed under the rubric Syphilis. Complfsment Fixation in the Diagnosis of Other Diseases.—The method , has been used in the diagnosis of typhoid fever, cerebro-spinal meningitis, gonococcal infections and other diseases. In these cases bacterial extracts made from cultures are used as antigens. In Wassermann's method the original feature was the use of an extract of an organ. The folio wing- diagram, modified from Citron, will render the method clear (Fig A. B.). Fixation of complement may also be used to identify bacteria, or antigens, as well as anti- A. B Diagram illnstrative of complement iixation iu fliagnosis. l = Typhoid bacilli. 2=Complement. 3 = Eel blood corpuscles. 4 = H,Tsmolytic amboceptor. 5 = Typhoid amboceptor. 6 = Cholera or other amboceptor. A. Fixation of complement to typhoid amboceptor and bacilli; no hemolysis. B. No fixation of complement to cholera amboceptor and typhoid bacilli ; free complement linlss itself to haemolytic immune body = haemolysis. bodies, using in this case a knovvn antibody, just as in other cases a known antigen is employed. The method of complement fixation is important as being the most delicate of all the immunity tests, and as being applicable to soluble albumins as well as bacterial antigens. 3. The Opso7iic Index.—The chief diagnostic importance of the opsonic index is in connection with tuberculosis. Technique.—1. Preparation of the Bacterial Emulsion, (a) Emulsions of tubercle bacilli are prepared by thoroughly grinding up a mass of dead culture (which can be procured commer- cially) in an agate mortar with 1-5 per cent, saline solution, and then centrifuging. Alter- natively, the emulsion prepared by grinding in the mortar may be stored in small sealed tubes, and used as described under. (6) In either case the bacilli should be sterilised by heating for half an hour on three consecutive days. (c) Emulsions of pyogenic cocci are made by rubbing up a little of a twenty-four hours' culture with normal saline, and centrifuging so as to deposit clumps of bacilli. A slightly opalescent suspension results. 2. Washed Leucocytes. A few drops of the observer's blood are allowed to drop directly into a test- tube of 1 '5 per cent, sodium citrate dissolved in normal saline. The mixture is thoroughly centrifuged, and the supernatant fluid pipetted off; more saline is added, the mixture is again centrifuged, and the fluid removed ; then the process is repeated a second time. After this the upper layer of corpuscles, which is rich in leucocytes, is pipetted off into a watch-glass for use. 3. Blood is collected in a pipette, with a specially curved end ; the ends are sealed and the tube is hooked by its curved end to the centrifuge. On centrifuging, the corpuscles collect at the straight end, the tube is broken across, and the serum pipetted off. Having made these preparations, we mix equal parts of serum, washed corpuscles, and bacterial emul- sion, using as a measure a capillary tube witli a mark made by an oil pencil about an inch from one end, and provided at the other with a rubber teat. The serum is drawn up to the mark, then an air bell is allowed to enter, next the emulsion is sucked up, and another air bell, then the corpuscles. The contents of the tube are then blown out on to a slide, thoroughly mixed, and re-aspirated into the tube once more. The ends of the tube are then sealed, and the whole is incubated at 37° C. for fifteen minutes. A control preparation with normal serum is also made in the same way. From the contents of the tubes films are made on slides which have been rubbed once or twice with the finest emery paper (to facilitate an even smear), and stained with Leishman's stain for cocci, or, after fixing with corrosive sublimate, with carbol fuchsin and methylene blue for tubercle bacilli. The number of bacteria ingested by 50 polynuclear leucocytes is counted, and an average struck. From this the index is obtained, e.g.— Patient's serum + corpuscles -|- bacteria. Average bacteria per leucocyte, 1*5. Normal serum -f- corpuscles -|- bacteria. Average bacteria per leucocyte, 3. Opsonic index The chief criticism which has been brought against the value of determinations of the opsonic index concern the limits of its experi- mental error. Wright claims that in his laboratory the error seldom exceeds 5 per cent.; others report much less favourably. At present this aspect of the question is still undecided. Riviere points out that it is as necessary to include a sufficient number of ingested bacteria in the count as to enumerate 50 or 100 leucocytes. At least 150 bacteria