WASSERMANN-UHLENHUTH TEST FOR BLOOD 398 Wasserman n-U h len hut h Test for Blood.—When an animal is injected with the serum of a different species, its serum acquires the power of precipitating the albumin in the serum of the blood used for injection. By this means human blood serum •can be distinguished from othei- blood. Uhlen- liuth {Berl. klin. Woch., 1901, p. 187) found that of 19 bloods tested human blood alone ^ave the reaction. The reaction is therefore to a great extent specific, but it seems that the serum of monkeys gives a similar reaction. The test is carried out thus :—A rabbit is injected with human blood serum at intervals of four or five days for a period of two or three weeks. It is then bled, and the serum pipetted ■off from the clot. The suspected blood is then •diluted with normal saline and filtered It is then added to twice its bulk of antiserum. Three controls are required: one of the filtered blood alone ; one of filtered blood from some ■other mammal; one of antiserum with normal saline. If the blood tested is to be proved of human origin, the first tube alone must show precipitation, the thi'ee others remaining clear. Wernicke's Aphasia.—*S'ee Aphasia '( Varieties). Wertheim's Operation.—An ex- tensive operation for the removal of cancer of the uterus and neighbouring affected parts. .See Uterus, Malignant Tumours of. White Line.—A white line following the drawing of the finger over the skin and lasting for two or three minutes has been noted in conditions resembling meningitis found by autopsy to be associated with disease (cheesy degeneration) of the suprarenal cap- sules. It is explained as due to reflex spasm ■of the capillaries during low arterial tension with moi-e or less dilatation of the vessels ; and it is said to disappear when adrenalin is given. Winter's Prunus Perfect Food. —A proprietary food preparation, said to con- tain '• about 23 per cent, of pure vegetable albumen, 50 per cent, of digested starch, 20 per cent, of nut fat in a perfect state of emulsion, and also valuable vegetable salts" ; an analysis is given in the British Medical Joiirnal (i. for 1910, p. 1241). Winternitz Test.—A method of test- ing the motility of the stomach ; iodipiu (which is not acted on by the gastric juice, but only by the intestinal juice, setting iodine free in the intestine) is given immediately after a meal; defective motility of the stomach will delay the .detection of the iodine in the saliva (tested by starch paste). See Webster, Diagnostic Methods p. 82, 1909). Wire Fiiig^ree. — See Filigree Im- plantation ; M'Gavin's Operation. Word Blindness, Congenital.— The first case of congenital word blindness was reported by Morgan in 1896 ; Hinschelwood has lately recorded twelve instances of the condition. It is sometimes a hereditary, or at least a family, disease, for four of Hinschel- wood's patients were children in one family of eleven. In congenital word blindness the incapacity may extend only to letters ; figures are sometimes recognised without difficulty. In the diagnosis of the condition refractive and other ocular defects and mental deficiency must be excluded. Hinschelwood states that children afflicted with word blindness may nevertheless ultimately learn to read. They ought, however, to be withdrawn from an ordinary school, and specially taught. REFERENCES.—Hinschelwood, Brit. Med. Journ., 2nd Nov. 1907.—Jackson, Amtr. Journ. Med. Sci., May 1906. Wormser Winemust.—A proprie tary grape juice, analyses of which are given in the Laricet, i. for 1910, p. 1210. Xanthine.—One of the purine bodies, being chemically dioxypurine. Xaxa.—See Drugs, Recent (Aspirin). X-Rays in Skin Diseases.—The X-ray treatment of tinea capitis, favus, tuber- culosis, carcinoma, and lupus erythematosus is discussed under the various diseases. Sycosis.—The epilating power of the rays has been made use of in the treatment of sycosis, but to get permanent results from this method doses sufficient to desti'oy the hairs and leave a permanent scar are necessary. Unless this is done, when the hairs regrow a recurrence is to be expected. Acne.—In acne small doses of X-i-ays arc very beneficial in addition to ordinary local treatment. In this disease the production of a reaction with its subsequent atrophy of the skin is to be avoided. Acne Keloid.—In the condition on the back of the neck known as acne keloid. X-ray treatment gives very good results, causing a rapid disappearance of the keloid-like growths and a check to the spread of the disease. Keloid and Hypertrophic Scars.—Ordin- ary keloids also sometimes yield to X-i-ays, and the rays can be relied on to cause an improvement in the hypertrophic scars which are so often associated with scrofuloderma.