45 ARTERIAL HYPERTONUS existence of a normal arterial abdominal re- flex, whereby the flux of blood to the splanchnic area is balanced by a constriction of the systemic vessels. This reflex constric- tion may be accentuated by the character of the food ingested, and by the existence of arterial sclerosis. Such a conception of arte- rial hypertonus as has been outlined links together a variety of morbid conditions. Besides explaining the genesis of arterio- sclerosis and the consecutive renal and cardiac changes which it produces, it accounts for transitory cerebral disturbances — hemi- paresis, numbness in a limb, aphasia, etc., and for some cases of angina pectoris. A specially important role is assigned to the arterial abdominal reflex in producing attacks of angina. The treatment of hypertonus is in the first place directed towards removing any form of digestive disturbance, and restricting the diet within moderate limits, particularly as regards nitrogenous food. In the second place, vaso- dilator drugs should be used. Erythrol tetra- nitrate is the most active of these; among others are spiritus getheris nitrosi, potas- sium iodide, atropine, stramonium, valerian, paraldehyde, phenacetin, tiional. Digitalis and strophanthus should be added if the heart is feeble. LITERATURE.—Russell. Arterial Hypertonus and Blood Pressure, Edinburgh, 1907. Arteries, Suture of.—During the last five or six years surgeons have begun to consider the possibility of closing wounds in arteries otherwise than by ligature, and the practice of suturing vessels so as to preserve the lumen has made some headway. The surgery of the arteries was discussed at the French Surgical Congress of 1909, on a report on the subject by Monod and Vanverts {La Presse MMicale, Oct. 6, 1909). They collected 66 cases of lateral suture for wounds of the arterial wall with 65 clinical successes, and 21 cases of end-to-end union by Murphy's invagination method or circular suture. The results, so far as regards haemostasis, are per- fect, but it is not so easy to state whether the permeability of the vessel was always secured. It seems not improbable that in a considerable proportion of cases thrombosis follows suture, but in 23 at least of 90 published cases the distal pulse became and remained perceptil>le. Suture, however, should only be attempted under three conditions:—(1) The diameter of the artery must not be less than one-eighth of an inch; when the vessel is smaller than this the tightening of the stitches obliterates the lumen. (2) The wall must be healthy. (3) Rigorous asepsis is essential. According to CaiTcl, who has done so much for the technique of vascular surgery, a "degree of asepsis which might sufiice for the successful outcome of an abdominal operation may be incapable of ensuring success in an interven- tion on the vessels." Mefhods of Suture.—Murphy invaginates the peripheral end of the divided vessel into the central end, the latter being split up to allow of the insertion of the lower part. This method has the advantage of giving a double thickness of the arterial wall at the point of junction, but the operation is difficult, and owing to the stretching of the artery it can- FiG. 1.—Murphy's invagination method. A, split in central end of divided vessel. not be performed when more than three- quarters of an inch of the vessel is destroyed. The cut end of the artery is in contact with the blood-stream, and coagulation is thereby favoured. The method of inserting the stitches is shown in the diagram (Fig. 1). Dorrance {Annals of Surgery, Sept. 1906) has devised the following method of suturing longitudinal, oblique, or transverse wounds of arteries. Pagenstecher's No. 1 thread is used in the finest possible needle. Clamps, guarded with rubber tubing, are employed to prevent htemorrhage duiing the process of suture ; they are applied about an inch above and below the wound in the vessel. The suture is passed through the two outer coats of the vessel about one-sixteenth of an inch above the beginning of the longitudinal or oblique wound and tied. The edges of the cut are now brought together by a continuous mattress stitch passing through all the coats of the vessel, and about a sixteenth of an inch from the cut edge, until the lower end of the cut is reached. The suture is made fast there by a half stitch through the two outer coats, and is then brought back as a continuous suture over the mattress stitch and tied at the point it was first inserted. Transverse wounds are dealt with in much the same way by a mattress stitch followed by continuous- suture. In pulling in the mattress stitch every third stitch drops back one half a suture length (Fig. 2). Dorrance describes the advantages of this method as—(1) the suture does not protrude into the lumen of the artery; (2) fibrin ferment cannot get from the ends of the cut surfaces into the blood-stream; (3) the liability to secondary hEemorrhage is lessened by the double line of suture. A number of other methods are described by