THYROID, SURGERY OF 370 of saline are given by the bowel during the first three or four days after operation. Thyroid Transplantation has been tried for myxoedema. The thyroid has been trans- planted into the spleen, and the medulla of long bones. The results have been doubtful. See also imder PARATHYROIDS, and a paper by Kocher in the Zentralhl. f. Chirurgie, 29th Aug. 1908. Post-operative Thyroid Intoxications.—Three groups of general symptoms may follow thyroid operations (Bloodgood) :—1. Tetany, which is rare, because no one attempts complete thyroid- ectomy, and many, with the knowledge of the function of the parathyroid, save that portion of the remaining lobe near which these glands are situated. The symptoms occur within ten days of operation. The mortality is high—8 out of 10 cases in Bilbroth's clinic. The con- dition was formerly called acute post-operative myxoedema. When all the parathyroids are not removed, the symptoms are mild, and the patient recovers. 2. Acute thyroid intoxication.—The symptoms are high temperature, rapid pulse, and respiration, delirium, and sometimes coma. It is most common after partial thyroidectomy for exophthalmic goitre, and is probably due more to rough handling of the thyroid gland than to exposure of raw surfaces of thyroid tissue in the wound. 3. Myxoedema.—This is a late sequel, and may appear from months to years after operation. Slight cases are liable to escape recognition. It is curable by adminis- tration of thyroid. Thyrotoxic Serums.—Graves's Disease {Treatment). Tick Fever.—Texas fever ; ixodiasis. For its connection with Spirochseta Duttoni, see Sir W. B. Leishman's article in the Lancet, i. for 1910, pp. 11-14. Tinea Capitis. — Tinea capitis is notoriously difficult to cure, but since the introduction by Saboui'aud and Noire of Paris four years ago of a definite method for applying X-rays, the difficulty has been to a great extent removed. The aim of their method of treat- ment is to produce epilation by a single long exposure instead of by repeated short exposures at short intervals, as had been the method tried by other workers before. The head of the child is placed at 15 cm. (about 6 inches) from the antikathode of the X-ray tube, the current for which may be obtained either from an induction coil or a static machine. The tube is enclosed in a shield of metal or other composition impervious to the rays, and having an aperture from which projects a metal or lead-glass cylinder. The length of this project- ing cylinder is such that when the X-ray tube is in position in the shield, the antikathode of the tube is exactly 15 cm. from the free end of the cylinder. The part of the child's head to be exposed is placed against the free end of the cyhnder. The dose of X-rays given is not measured by the time of exposure, as the quantity and quality of rays being given out by the tube are constantly changing, but by the effect on a "pastille" consisting of small discs of cardboard coated with platino-cyanide of barium. This pastille changes colour from a greenish-yellow to a brown when exposed to the rays. The pastille is placed in a holder so as to be exposed to the rays, but at exactly half the distance, at which the child's head is, from the antikathode of the tube. The ex- posure is commenced, and from time to time the tint of the pastille is compared in good daylight with a standard tint known as Tint B. To reach this given tint usually takes 15-20 minutes. The quantity of rays necessary to change the pastille to the given shade is exactly sufficient to cause epilation of the exposed area. If this dose is not exceeded there is no danger of producing an X-ray dermatitis. On the other hand, if the dose is not sufficient to alter the colour of the pastille sufficiently within 25 minutes or so, the hair will probably not come out. If properly applied, the hair should become loose and fall out all over the exposed area in 18 to 21 days. It remains out for 6 weeks to 2 months, and then grows in again, the regrowtb being complete in from 3 to 4 months. Owing to the convexity of the scalp surface, only a comparatively small area can be exposed at a time. After the first area has been exposed it is marked with tincture of iodine or ink, and then covered with a disc of lead foil of the exact size, which is kept in position by a small elastic bandage. An- other circular area, slightly overlapping the covered-up one, is then exposed till the tint on the pastille is obtained. This in turn is also covered with lead foil, and a thiid area exposed, and so on till all the area which it is desired to epilate has been exposed. There are various slight modifications of this method, which have been introduced by different workers, but the principle is always the same. In all cases before the rays are applied it is advisable to have the hair cut quite short all over, so as to see how much disease is pi'esent. If there is only one diseased spot, the scalp should be rayed well beyond the diseased areas. It must be remembered that X-rays have absolutely no effect on the life of the ringworm fungus. Cultures of the fungus can be quite easily grown from the hairs which have fallen out after X-rays. If the area around a diseased area be not also rayed, before the hair has time to fall out the disease may have spread beyond the region exposed, and also diseased hairs, as they fall out after an X-ray exposure, are very apt to settle on a healthy part of the