ANEURISM, SURGICAL TREATMENT OF 36 frequently fulfil these requirements. After opening the sac, and, if necessary, suturing the orifices of any collateral vessels which may exist, a drainage tube of appropriate calibre is placed along the bottom of the sac, continuous with the openings of the main artery. Using this as a guide, the operator makes a new channel by suturing the walls of the sac over it, the tube being withdrawn before the last few stitches are tied. The sac is then obliterated by folding down its walls and placing the layers over the new channel so as to strengthen it; the folds are united by buried sutures. Matas {Jonrn. of the Amer. Med. Assoc., Nov. 14, 1908) gives the following statistics showing the results of his method of intra-saccular radical cure of aneurism :— Total number of cases (arterio-venous aneurism excluded) 85 Total number of operators . . . .52 Typical operations 77 Atypical operations 8 American operators ...... 49 Foreign operators 3 Anatomical Distribution of Ajieurisms. Abdominal aorta . 2 External carotid . 1 External iliac . . 1 Posterior tibial. . 1 Gluteal . . .1 Subclavian . . 1 Ilio-femoral . . 1 Axillary . . . 1 Eemoral . . .18 Subclavio-axillary . 2 Popliteal . . .50 Brachial . . .2 Results.—Total, 86 cases ; 78 recoveries and 8 post- operative deaths. Secondary haemorrhage, 2 ; gan- grene, 4 ; relapses, 4—all in reconstructive cases. Angfular Pregnancy. See Abortion (^Diagnosis). AniSOgamy. — Union of dissimilar gametes (Gr. avca-o?, unequal, ya/^o?, marriage). See Protozoa. AnophelesiS.—New name for malaria proposed by E. W. Robertson {Virginia Med. Semi-Monthhj, Sept. 10, 1909). Antenatal Pathology. Definition 36 Subdivisions and Classification . 36 EcETAL Pathology . . . .37 Embryonic Pathology .... 38 Germinal Pathology .... 39 Etiology 40 Diagnosis 41 Treatment 41 Definition.—The term Antenatal Pathologi/ seems to have been first employed in its present sense by Ballantyne in his work (of which only two volumes appeared) entitled Diseases and Deformities of the Fcetus: an Attempt towards a System of Antenatal Pathology (1892, 1895); and this writer adopted the name as the title of his large work, which was published some ten years later {Manual of Antenatal Pathology and Hygiene, vol. i. "The Fretus," 1902; vol. ii. "The Embryo," 1904). As defined in the last-named work {op. cit., i. p. 2) antenatal pathology is. concerned with all the morbid processes which act upon the organism before birth, and with the efi'ects which they produce by their action it deals with the pathology of the individual during his foetal and embryonic existence, and for this reason it might be named intra-uterine pathology ; but it includes also the consideration of the morbid agencies which influence the germ (ovum or sperm) in the period which precedes the beginning of embryonic life, and it therefore embraces also the study of morbid heredity or of pre-embryonic or germinal pathology. Subdivisions and Classification.—With the scope given to it by this definition, ante- natal pathology requires to be subdivided in order to be conveniently studied. Beginning- at the point nearest to birth and working back- wards towards conception and the events which precede it, Ballantyne names three large sub- divisions of the subject, viz. foetal pathology, embryonic pathology, and germinal pathology,^ corresponding to the foetal, embryonic, and germinal periods of antenatal life. The foetal period occupies by far the largest part of the mother's pregnancy ; it may be said to extend from the eighth to the fortieth week, or thirty- two weeks in all (seven calendar months roughly); the embryonic period lasts from the end of the first week to the eighth week of antenatal life, although Ballantyne gives to the last fortnight (seventh and eighth weeks) the special name of the neofoetal period (a transition time); and the germinal epoch is that time in life which precedes the first appearance of the embryonic rudiments, which cori'esponds, there- fore, to the first week of antenatal life (that immediately following conception), and to the long time before that event when the germ-cells (ovum and sperm) were lying in the parent organisms and wei'C being prepared for their great culminating function of forming a new being. Sharply defined in its terminal period by biith, antenatal life stretches away back almost indefinitely in the other direction intO' the shadowy vitalities of the reproductive cells of the parents and their ancestors, till, theoretic- ally at least, it reaches the ovum and spermato- zoon of the primitive pair. Each of these peiiods of antenatal life has its own character- istic pathological developments, in a certain sense each of them has its own form of death ; and in each of them the special physiology of the time has its effect upon its pathology and death. Speaking generally, the fcetal period is characterised by the occurrence of diseases, the embiyonic hj monstrosities and malforma- tions, and the germinal by the coming into action of iDathological tendencies and predis- positions. The morbid developments of the foetal period are the diseases of the foetus.