BIER'S METHOD OF TREATMENT BY HYPEREMIA 57 given, an interval of a few minutes intervening between each application, to allow of the oedema and hypersemia subsiding. The effect of this treatment is that often a furuncle is aborted. Where a definite abscess forms, this is treated by making a tiny incision to allow the escape of pus, and thereafter the use of the suction-cup is resumed. In no class of case has the treatment been more profoundly modified than in that of car- buncle. The extensive crucial incision which at one time was so commonly used in the treat- ment of carbuncle is now very seldom practised. The treatment by removing the infective focus by surgical operation may be now entirely abandoned. The justification for this latter line of treatment was that in certain situations, especially the head and neck, death from septic absorption occasionally occurred, and thus it was considered justifiable to cut wide of the disease, although a large raw area was left where healing often occurred extremely slowly afterwards. Although Bier's treatment of these cases by suction-cups cannot claim to have entirely abolished the mortality in cases of car- buncle, the success which has attended its use justifies its preference to any other form of treatment. The method that is practised is to apply a suction-cup of suitable size; one that is large enough to include the swelling and a margin of healthy skin as well. The degree of suction used is that which will cause the swell- ing to bulge into the glass and induce a distinct hypersemia of it. On no account must suction be too powerful. The use of the glass must never be attended with any pain or discomfort. The patient will probably describe the swelling as being comfortably tense ; the glass will adhere firmly to the skin. The suction-cup is applied for the usual period of from three to five minutes, and is then taken off, to be reapplied after a short interval for the same period. Six appli- cations are usually found sufficient for the first period of treatment. After twelve hours or so, another series of applications is given. Con- comitant with this line of treatment, the usual constitutional remedies are used. The effect of the treatment that has been described is to cause the swelling to become much increased in size. Points of cutaneous suppuration are seen scattered over the surface of the swelling. In certain of the cases these may be punctured, but often they are found to have opened spon- taneously, and discharge of pus takes place from them. The continued use of the suction-cup, in addition to inducing hypersemia of the part, permits the free discharge of pus and slough from the septic core of the carbuncle below. Gradually the whole of the sloughing core is discharged, and the wound presents a cribri- foi'm appearance ; several small openings, separ- ated by thinned and inflamed skin, leading down to the abscess cavity below. The use of the suction-cup being persisted in, and a dry asceptic dressing being applied in the interval, the cavity gradually granulates up, the super- ficial wounds heal, and all that remain are several tiny cicatrices. Whitlow.—Cases of whitlow can be treated either with the rubber band or by special suction- glasses, made to fit the finger or hand. The latter line of treatment is perhaps the better, the former is, however, much easier to carry out, and requires no special appliance. The com- mencing whitlow, which is associated with severe local pain, but little constitutional reac- tion, can be confidently treated by Bier's method alone. A constricting band is applied in the usual way to the lower part of the upper arm. The arm is carried in a sling, and, if necessary, a dressing is loosely applied to the poisoned finger. In certain cases it will be found advis- able to supplement this treatment by prescribing an aperient medicine. The immediate effect of the application of the bandage is to lead to a marked diminution of the pain felt. In some cases the patient will say that it entirely dis- appears. When lie returns for treatment at the end of twelve hours, the limb is seen to be dis- tinctly swollen, the local reaction is much more pronounced, and already there may be indica- tions that an incision to allow of the evacuation of pus is required. When such is the case, all that is necessary will be a tiny puncture with a tenotomy knife. Where the infection is more widespread, and the condition more severe, such as in a case of suppurative teno-synovitis, multiple punctures into the tendon sheath should be made, and through these the sheath douched out with sterilised saline solution. It is not advisable that drainage-tubes be intro- duced, as these are liable to induce necrosis by pressure on the tendon sheath. A sterile dressing is applied, and the rubber bandage is not reapplied for several hours, to allow of any slight haemorrhage which the incision may have caused to become arrested. The bandage is worn for twenty to twenty-two hours out of the twenty-four, and twice daily at least the wounds are douched out with saline solution. By carry- ing out this line of treatment, it will be found that healing will take place earlier, and move- ments to prevent the formation of adhesions may be practised sooner than in the older line of treatment. Mastitis.—Bier's treatment has been found particularly suitable in cases of acute mastitis ; especially in puerperal mastitis has it been found to be of benefit. The treatment is carried out by means of the suction-cup; the advantages that this line of treatment possess are that in some cases a cure is obtained without resort to the use of the knife. When it is necessary to make an incision, a much smaller one can be used, and it is not necessary to introduce the finger to break down the septa to anything like the