246 LUMBAR PUNCTURE estimations of the pressure is in cases of hydro- cephalus following meningitis. If the pressure is high, the foramen of Magendie must be patent; if it is low, there is probablj?^ an occlu- sion between the base of the brain and the spinal canal. (2) Colour. The fluid is usually perfectly limpid, and deposits no coagulum on standing. In acute cerebro-spinal or pneumo- coccal meningitis it is turbid or even purulent; in chronic cerebro-spinal, post-basic, and tuber- culous meningitis, especially the last, it may be almost clear, though as a rule a faint opalescence can be made out. Even the perfectly clear fluid of tuberculous meningitis often deposits a fine coagulum on standing. The fluid is blood- stained in many cases of htemoii'hage into the central nervous system. Estimations of the specific gravity, freezing-point, and electrical resistance are useless. Thus mere physical examination yields much definite information. Turbidity is proof of meningitis, and even the slightest haziness is highly suspicious. Perfectly clear fluid negatives all forms of meningitis except tuberculous, and if the fluid is l;)oth clear and under no increase of pressure, there is probably no meningitis. 2. Chemical ExaminafAoti.—Albumin may be estimated in a small-sized Esbach's tube. A quantity exceeding -5 gram, to the litre is pathological; it has much the same significance as excess of cells. In general paralysis of the insane, Guillan and Paraut describe the follow- ing reaction :—" When normal cerebro-spinal fluid is boiled, the albumin coagulates, and the fluid becomes slightly opalescent. If the globulin be precipitated by adding a saturated solution of magnesium sulphate, the fluid filtered, and the filtrate again Ijoiled, it should remain clear. In general paralysis, however, the second boil- ing yielded a characteristic precipitate in every case out of a series of 16 general paralytics examined by these observers " (Purves Stewart). In 1899 Mott and Halliburton described cholin in the cerebro-spinal fluid in cases of degene- rative diseases of the nervous system, and suggested that its presence might serve to difterentiate between organic and functional disorders. The cholin is crystallised out as a cholin-platinum chloride. The te.st is too complicated for clinical use, and, moi'eover, there is considerable doubt as to the nature and reliability of the reaction. Donath (i?eu. Neurologique, 16th Feb. 1906) has introduced a modification of the test, and states a positive result is given in epilepsy as well as in degene- rative diseases. Kaufmann {Neur. Zetitralh., 16th March 1908) thinks that the reaction has no clinical significance. The Fehling-reducing body is said to be absent in cases of tuberculous meningitis. At least 10 c.c. of fluid are r'equired to test for its presence. 3. Bacteriology.—Amongthe organisms which, when present, are easily detected in ordinary smears, meningococci, pneumococci, and strepto- and staphy-lococci are the most common. It is diflGicult to detect tubercle bacilli; they should be sought for in the small coagulum which forms in the fluid fi-om tuberculous meningitis. Much patience is required to discover them ; some diligent workers state that they can be found in nearly 100 per cent, of cases ; others have been less fortunate. Stuart M'Donald has recently demonstrated a leptothrix in some cases of meningitis. The Wasserman test and other immunity tests may l)e applied to cerebro-spinal fluid (see Immunity Diagnosis). The cerebro-spinal fluid of the great majority of cases of general paralysis gives a positive AVasserman reaction. In cases of sleeping sickness the trypano- soma gambiense is found in the cerebro-spinal fluid. 4. Cytology.—Normal fluid contains few or no cells. The cellular contents of the fluid may be estimated in several ways :—(1) Centrifuge about 5 c.c. of fluid for 10 minutes, pour oft'the fluid and remove the tiny clot at the foot of the tube with a platinum loop. Spread this on a clean slide over an area of 5 mm.", fix, and stain. By always adopting the same routine the number of cells pel' field gives an index of the cellular content. Normally, there should not be more than one or two per field of an oil-immersion lens. (2) Count the cells in an ordinary Thoma- Zeiss blood-chamber. The fluid over the whole ruled area {~ mm.'^) in 5 successive prepara- tions must be counted. From 1 to 5 cells per cubic millimetre is normal, 5 to 9 doubtful, 10 and over, pathological. This is the easiest and most accurate method. It is unnecessary to stain or dilute the fluid ; all that has to be done is to place a drop on a well-cleaned slide, to cover, and to examine. In tuberculous menin- gitis one commonly finds from 10 to 30 cells in each preparation, i.e. 100 to 300 per cubic millimetre. When they are numerous it is not necessary to examine more than one drop of fluid. (3) A third method, specially adapted for careful study of the cells, is unnecessarily elaborate for clinical work. Some fixing agent, e.g. alcohol, is added to the cerebro-spinal fluid, which is then thoroughly centrifuged. The deposit is embedded in celloidin, and sectioned. Cotton and Ayres have worked out the details of this method. The standard taken for com- parison is the number of cells per 100 oil- immersion fields. They describe the following varieties of cells :—(1) Lymphocytes, including forms transitional between these and plasma cells. (2) Endothelial cells, large, oval, with horse-shoe nuclei. (3) Phagocytes. (4) Plasma cells—pathognomonic of general paralysis. (5) "Kornchen" cells, containing droplets of fat. (6) Polynuclear leucocytes. The chief directions on which diagnostic in- formation can be derived from a study of the