PSORIASIS 312 robin ointments, it has the disadvantage of staining the clothes. Another drug which has been much employed in those inveterate spots of psoriasis is eugallol, which is pyrogallol-mono-acetate. Like ordinary pyrogallic acid, it is a reducing agent. It is most easily applied dissolved in an equal bulk of acetone, forming, when painted on the skin with a brush, a firm varnish. This same appli- cation is also useful in chronic patches of scaly eczema. X-rays will also cause the disappearance of psoriasis spots, leaving a marked pigmentation ; but as the " cure" in such cases is not any more prolonged than after other less dangerous appli- cations, it is not a method to be generally recommended. REFERENCES.—Drkow, Monatsh.f. prakt. Dermat., p. 608, 1903.—Barandt, Therap. Monatsh.,'Nov. 1907.— Balzer, JRev. de Thdrap., p. 32.^, 1902.—Goldschmidt, Dermat. Zentralb., p. 2, 1899. — Grunberg, Dermat. Zeitsch., 1899.—Jessner, Dermat. Vortr. f. Praktikes, 1905. — Kromayer and Vieth, Monatsh. f. prakt. Dermat., p. 11, 1898. Psycho-therapy and Psycho- Analysis. Freudian Views and Theories . . 312 Mental Analysis . . . .312 Sexual Element . . . . .312 Theory of Dreams . . . .313 Classification and Pathogenesis . 314 Neuroses ...... 314 Psycho-neuroses . . . . .315 Psycho-Analysis 315 Methods 315 Value in Treatment . . . .316 Literature 316 Not only have the past few years seen a great development of such systems, or so-called systems of treatment as faith-healing, mind-cure, and Christian science outside the medical profession, and of the Emmanuel movement partly outside and partly within the profession, but there has also been a quickening of interest among medical men themselves in the possibilities of psycho- analysis and psycho - therapeutics. No men have done more to enlighten and stimulate the investigation of these subjects than Pieixe Janet, of Paris ; and Sigmund Freud, of Vienna ; and already, to-day, there is a large and increasing body of what may be called Freudian literature dealing with different aspects of the matter. To some extent the subject has been prejudged and condemned in many minds by the un- doubted fact that the Freudian theories recog- nise a sexual element in the etiology of the psycho-neuroses; but this is hardly fair, and certainly no theories can be either disproved or substantiated by simple disregard or obliviscence. The doctrine of mental analysis had its origin in an observation made in 1881 by Dr. J. Breuer, also of Vienna, and an older colleague of Freud's. The patient was a woman, suffering from a serious form of hysteria, viz. paralysis and contracture of the arm and a peculiar affection of the speech ; she named certain occurrences in her past history which she believed to have been instrumental in produc- ing her present disease, and she believed that she had made a full recital of the past; but by means of a special mode of inquiry it was discovered that experiences, some of them painful, in her former life, although apparently foi'gotten by her, had been active in producing, and were still active in maintaining, the hys- terical affection from which she was suffering. As these buried, unconscious, or forgotten things were brought to light, talked about, and lived over again, so to say, the distressing symptoms dropped away and disappeared, show- ing that, although unconscious, they had been far from inactive in the patient's psychical life. Gradually Bi'euer and Freud came to recognise that in many nervous states there v/as a hidden, forgotten, repressed life which was active in producing the symptoms and signs that the physician saw and the patient suffered. Ex- periences in early, even in very early life, were in a sense ineradicable ; but they might be forgotten as one " forgets" unpleasant events in, say, a holiday tour, and remembers delight- ful emotions and experiences occurring during the same; yet they constitute an unconscious, a forgotten life running on synchronously with our conscious and willed existence, and capable of seriously influencing it without their influence being at all obvious, at any rate without analysis. As has been said, " the flow of phenomenal consciousness is conditioned by psychological causes of whose existence the individual is altogether unaware." The Freudian oi' psycho- analytic method of treatment is " an attempt to enable the patient," not necessarily by means of hypnotism or the hypnoidal state, " to pene- trate with tireless zeal, increasing skill, and fearless honesty, upon the details of his own emotions, life, and thought, in the belief that nothing becomes less sacred, or fails to become less painful, through being clearly seen." Among these forgotten experiences of the past life, although not by any means coextensive with them, are sexual phenomena, and to these some reference must be made, for they con- stitute the basis of Freud's theory of infantile sexuality. It is, however, matter of regret that no other word than "sexual" could be discovered to denominate them ; for they are not necessarily " sensual " although " sexual," and indeed, although they comprise many common emotions as of affection or the opposite, they also include " a great variety of apparently indifferent sentiments, longings, and physio-