300 PREGNANCY, MANAGEMENT OF G. M. Boyd, and Cooke Hirst, and Dr. Richard C. Norris {Therap. Gaz., xxxi. pp. 74-86, 1907), all emphasise the importance of the medical supervision of pregnant patients. The vaginal examination in early pregnancy is of value in enabling the attendant to diagnose and correct displacements of the uterus (retroversion and anteflexion), to estimate pelvic contractions and deformities, and to detect the presence "of tumours, e.g. ovarian dermoids. Letters in the British Medical Journal (ii. for 1905, pp. 681, 833, 906) record cases in which fibroid tumours of the uterus and ovarian cysts had proved formidable complications of labour ; the writers point out that early vaginal examinations in pregnancy would have led to their discovery and treatment under more favourable circum- stances. Even as late as the seventh month vaginal palpation may reveal a degree of pelvic contraction which may be safely overcome then (by induction of labour), but which, if met with at full term, may necessitate Cesarean section or pubiotomy. The diet of the pregnant woman requires supervision, for we now know that it is of great importance in the cases in which there is the risk of renal inadequacy and albuminuria. Further, Prochowuick and his followers {Therap. Monatsh., Hefte 8 and 9, 1901) have collected clinical evidence which sufficiently shows that the food of the mother influences the size and condition of the unborn infant; and experi- mental results are being accumulated in support of his contention (vide article in By'it. Med. Jour7i., ii. for 1901, pp. 1187 and 1368; Loch- head's papers in the Trans. Edin. Obstet. Soc, xxxiii. pp. 120, 267, 1907-8; etc.). In albuminuria a strictly milk diet is essen- tial until the albumen has disappeared or is very small in quantity, and thereafter a modi- fied dietary may require to be continued till the birth of the child. "While milk, fruit, and bread form an ideal diet for the pregnant woman, very few will accept it," is the opinion of an American obstetrician. The food of the patient also is of great importance in cases of hyperemesis gravidarum, where rectal feeding may have to be long continued. " The use of water as a beverage is most important during pregnancy ; few patients who suffer from nausea in the early months are not benefited hy the use of vichy, apollinaris, soda, or any other slightly aerated and pure water." There is danger in the commonly given advice that the pregnant woman must eat " enough for two," the second person being her unbor-n infant; Bar's researches {vide Pregnancy, Physiology OF) go to show that the additional nourishment necessary for the foetus is obtained by a better assimilation of material in the mother's intestine, and by a smaller excretion of the same. Most women probably eat quite enough for their unborn infants as well as themselves, and are not called upon to make any marked change in the quantity of the food taken, although its nature may require revision. Dietetic indis- cretions are much more dangerous in a time of strain, such as pregnancy, than in the non- pregnant state. Urinanalysis is, of course, of immense im- portance in pregnancy, and especially in first pregnancies where the capabilities of the kidneys to do more work without suffering injury are unknown factors. Further, in doubtful cases, the simple testing for albumen is not sufficient; its quantity must be estimated, as must also that of the urea, and perhaps of the chlorides. The modern obstetrician can hardly regard his duties to his pregnant patient as faithfully carried out unless he makes careful analyses of her urine at regular intervals. Further, the patient should be instructed to come to her doctor for advice when her preg- nancy is complicated in any way. She should be told to report such deviations from the normal as headache (especially persistent head- ache), marked diminution in the amount of urine passed, eye symptoms, troublesome con- stipation, puffiness below the eyes, swelling and tenderness of the veins of the legs, etc. A great field of usefulness is lying ready for the enterprising obstetrician to enter on, if only women could be got to understand that medical attention may be very helpful in overcoming the minor ailments of pregnancy and in prevent- ing the major disasters. " Women should be taught to seek their doctors early in pregnancy," writes an American authority, "after the second missed period an office consultation should be arranged for." This may be difficult of accom- plishment, for, in the past, the medical man has left his pregnant patients very much to them- selves, or has thrown them for advice upon their nurses ; he has now to demonstrate that his attentions are both needed and helpful. Most women still are under the impression that they are doing the best for themselves if they send for their medical attendant when the pains of labour supervene. A great impetus has been given to the under- standing and management of morbid preg- nancies by the institution of hospital treatment for the same. A full review of the moA-ement for the establishment of pre-maternity hospitals will be found in Ballantyne's Valedictory Address to the Edinburgh Obstetrical Society in 1907 {Trans. Edin. Obstet. Soc, xxxiii. pp. 24-60), and an account of thirty cases of morbid pregnancy treated in the pre-maternitj^ ward of the Edinburgh Royal Maternity Hospital during 1908 was published early in the present year {Journ. Obstet. and Gymcc. Brit. Emj)., XV. pp. 93 and 169, 1909). The following suggestions have been made for pre-maternity beds, wards, and hospitals. First, with regard to beds in maternity hospital?: the pre-