SURGERY, ASEPSIS IN 354 ready for use in a 5 per cent, solution of car- bolic, but must be rinsed in sterilised water before they are actually employed to touch the wound. Large flat sponges are useful in abdominal work. It must be admitted, how- ever, that gauze swabs or pads are more com- monly used than marine sponges. Some prefer to have square pads made up of several layers of absorbent gauze stitched together at the «dges or diagonally to hold them together; these are specially useful in abdominal opera- tions, and when so used ought to have tapes attached to them to facilitate their removal. Others choose to have absorbent cotton wool pads covered with gauze tissue; these may be round, oval, or more or less flattened, and they are usually made in two sizes, small and large. Swabs and pads of these materials are to be sterilised by high-pressure steam. Dressi7igs consist of gauze, wool, or lint, and can nowadays be had in an aseptic or sterilised condition. There are various methods of pre- paring them; one plan, which seems to be satisfactory, is to submit the dressing to a tempei'ature of 250° F. for half an hour at a pressure of 15 lbs. in a steam vacuum autoclave, after which it is enveloped in a sheet of cotton wool, wrapped up in parchment papei', and put in an air-tight tin or cardboard box. Otherwise the sterilisation is done just before operation. By compression certain dressings, e.y. cotton wool and gauze, can be had in small bulk for economy of storage room and for ease in trans- port. Various forms of gavze are in use, viz. absorbent gauze, iodoform gauze, boracic, car- bolic, double cyanide and sal alembroth gauze. Gauze may be had packed in zigzag fashion to facilitate its withdrawal without handling from its box or tin. Similarly, cotton wool may be obtained in an absorbent or unabsorbent form; and there are difit'erent sorts of antiseptic wool, viz. boracic, carbolic, iodoform, double cyanide, eucalyptus, salicylic, and sublimate. Bandages are made of heavy gauze (" butter cloth "), of muslin, of calico, of open wove, of domette, of flannel, of flannelette, and of elastic web or rubber. Various antiseptic lints ai'e in use, e.g. boracic, carbolic, salicylate, sublimate, alembroth, etc.; and ordinary absorbent or hospital lint of different degrees of fineness is much employed. I'ro- tectives are made of oiled silk, of mackintosh or jaconette, of gutta-percha tissue, or of oiled or waxed paper. Tow, for absorbing discharges, etc., may be had plain or antiseptic (e.g. maiine lint, carbolised tow). The actual dressing of wounds still diff"ers much as carried out by diiferent surgeons, but there is, speaking generally, a marked simplifi- cation. When the iodine method of sterilising the skin has been employed, and indeed in aseptic surgery generally, the dressing need consist only of several layers of sterilised gauze or of double cyanide gauze, covered with steril- ised wool, and with a domette bandage to hold them in position. Sometimes the dressing need not be removed or touched for several days ; but, of course, if there is oozing or discharge it will require to be changed. When the stitches are taken out it is a useful precaution to paint the wound again with the iodine solution. Sterilisers of various kinds, of varying degrees of complexity, and at very diff'erent prices are supplied by the instrument makers. For sterilising instruments alone tins on the fish-kettle principle are in common use; in them the process is carried out by boiling. The heating apparatus consists of a flat spirit lamp with two or three burners, or of a gas- burner which can be attached to a gas supply by tubing. Inside the tin (which should be lai'ge enough to contain all the instruments likely to be needed) there are one or two perforated trays, with detachable handles, for carrying the instruments; and the tin itself should stand on legs (folding or removable) which are just high enough to leave room underneath for the spirit lamp. The lid should be well fitting and may be made in such a way as to serve also as a cooling tray for the instruments. The material of which the steriliser is made may be tin, copper, brass, nickel-plated, or enamelled steel; and it is made in a portable form. For small articles such as needles, small knives, ligatures, etc., small pocket sterilisers can be had ; but there is no great need for these, as the small things can be well enough treated in the larger steriliser. Sterilisation of dressings, swabs, etc. with steam demands a more complicated ap- paratus. The steam itself may be quiescent, or it may be in motion (circulating or " live " steam) which is generally to be preferred, or it may be under pressure, as is usually the case in hospitals. In such sterilisers as the " Arnold" the steam is generated from water in a shallow receptacle in the lower part of the apparatus by means of a gas-burner or spirit-lamp ; it then passes through the sterilis- ing chamber where the articles to be sterilised are placed ; and then it finds its way into the space inside the surrounding tin or copper jacket where it is condensed and passes in the form of water back again into the shallow receptacle. As a rule, however, it is preferred to use steam under pressure, and for this purpose the Schimmelbusch or the Kny- Scheerer steriliser may be employed. In the former, the cylindrical boiler is usually vertical, but it can be had horizontal at an extra cost, and it is usually of such a size as to hold two kettles or drums. The drums which contain the dressings are fenestrated either in the sides or at top and bottom, and by a mechanism which should be as simple as possible the openings can be closed when the sterilisation