BLASTOMA 64 B. Monophyllic, containing deriva- tives from one germinal layer, e.g. most renal mixed tumours. III. Blastoma: a tumour derived from uni- potential cells. A. Heterochthonous or teratogen- ous, the cells being derived from another individual, e.g. destructive placental mole, chorio-epithelioma malignum, epithelioma derived from an ovarian dermoid. B. Autochthonous, from the inde- pendent growth of unipoten- tial cells of the host indi- vidual, e.g. all other tumours composed of cells of one order. It vi\W be observed that the B. gi'oup of the third division, by its definition, enormously extends the scope of the term " blastoma"; further, Adami {op. cit. p. 837) is of opinion that blastomas may originate from congenitally displaced cells, from cells of post-natal displace- ment, and from cells which assume neoplastic characters without displacement, and rapidly take on malignancy. Even these wide bounds are insufficient, and a fourth group has been suggested containing the hladomatoid growths, " originating as a diffuse, though local, hyper- trophy of the specific elements of a tissue, which may or may not pass from the hyperti'ophic to the malignant type." From what has been stated above it will be evident that the term blastoma has a very wide significance in modern pathology, but it must at the same time be remembered that its position depends on the theory of origin of neoplasms adopted, for, if the theory of a parasitic origin be accepted, much of what has been postulated above falls to the ground. Blood. Origin and Relationships of Cor- puscles 64 Blood in Infancy and Childhood . 65 Clinical Examination ... 65 Examination of Stained Films . . 66 Differential Counting . . .67 Pathological Appearances . . 67 Bacteriological Examination . . 68 Alkalinity 68 Coagulation 68 Calcium Salts 69 Origin and Relationships of the Blood Corpuscles.—Notwithstanding much investi- gation from all sides, the origin and relation- ships of the blood corpuscles are still very obscure. Since, however, the subject has more scientific interest than practical bearing on clinical medicine, a short general account of the present position of affairs will suffice. Bed Corpuscles.—The non-nucleated red cor- puscle of the blood is certainly derived from the nucleated erythroblast of the bone marrow. Hayem's theory, that the blood plates (haemato- blasts) are the precursors of the red corpuscles has been altogether discarded. In extra-uterine life, then, the red corpuscles must be regarded as arising solely from nucleated cells in the bone marrow. These cells lose their nuclei either by a process of extrusion (Muir and others), or breaking down in the cell (Pappen- heim). The earlier stages in the development of the red corpuscle are much less certain, the main question at issue being whether it has an ancestral cell in common with the leucocyte, or whether there are distinct and separate primi- tive red and white cells. On the whole, most authorities (Pappenheim, WoUf, and others) in- cline to the former alternative, and trace all the blood cells to a primitive undifferentiated cell, resembling a lymphocyte. The immediate pre- cursor of the normal erythroblast of the marrow (normoblast) is the megaloblast. In disease the process of blood-formation may revert to the embryonic type. This is evidenced by (1) the appearance of megaloblasts in the blood; (2) the extension of the blood-forming marrow beyond its normal limits; and (3) the reversion of the spleen and liver to their embryonic hsemopoietic function (myeloid transformation). IVhite Corpuscles.—As regards the leucocytes, also, there are two different theories. Ehrlich holds that there are two distinct varieties of these cells, the lymphocytes, and the cells of the bone marrow. These cells differ from one another—(1) in their source, the former arising from lymphatic tissue, the latter from bone marrow; (2) morphologically, the former having a rovmd nucleus, no granules, a cytoplasm more basophile than the nucleus, while the latter have more or less irregular nuclei, and contain neutro- phile, eosinophile, or basophile granules. To the marrow cells we must also add the non-granular mononuclear, which differs from the lymphocyte in having a cytoplasm less strongly basophile than the nucleus. (3) The lymphocytes are destitute of the power of amoeboid movement; the marrow cells have the power of amoeboid movement, and are thus able to emigrate from the vessels. According to this theory the marrow cells and lymphocytes are genetically distinct — they have no common ancestor. Leucocytosis is essentially diff'erent from lymphocytosis ; the former is an active emi- gration of marrow cells caused by chemo- tactic influence, the latter is a passive flood- ing of the blood with lymphocytes washed out of the lymphoid tissues. The alternative hypothesis to that of Ehrlich is that all the leucocytes are derived from a primitive undifferentiated cell (leucoblast), and is the one at present most generally adopted