175 HEART, DISEASES OF respiratory convulsions. When partial block is transformed into complete block the same momentary check in the ventricular beat occurs. Partial block can be transformed into complete block by {a) stimulating the auricles to beat more rapidly, which results in a less eflfective though more frequent auricular wave ; or (6) stimulating the vagus, and thereby inhibiting the auricles altogether. Erlanger summarises the results of his investigations as follows :— " 1. In the dog, the impulse which normally causes the ventricles to contract is conducted through the auriculo-ventricular bundle of His. " 2. By compression of this bundle all stages of heart-block may be obtained. These include {a) an increase of the intersystolic pause; (6) an occasional ventricular silence; (c) regularly recurring ventricular silences—for example, one silence in ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, and two auricular beats; (c^) a two-to- one rhythm; (e) a three-to-one rhythm; (/) complete heart-block. "3. As a rule, the ventricles take on a con- stant slow rate at the moment complete heart- block is established. Occasionally, usually when the block becomes complete suddenly, there results a marked preliminary slowing of the ventricular rate. The auricular rate does not change. " 4. When the block is complete, stimulation of the vagus nerve has no, or but a minimal, elfect upon the rate or force of the ventricular beats, whereas the auricles still react normally. " 5. When the block is complete, stimulation of the accelerator nerve increases the rate both of the auricles and ventricles. " 6. When the block is complete, the rate of ventricular beats may not be materially affected by variations in the general blood-pressure, nor by asphyxia, nor by interference with the coronary circulation." The close analogy which exists between experimental heart-block in animals and heart- block as met with in man from disease of the auriculo-ventricular bundle is one of the most striking proofs which has ever been afforded of the value of physiological investigations as applied to practical medicine. Irregular Action of the Heart.—Mac- kenzie classifies irregular action of the heart as :—(1) Sinus irregularities ; (2) extra systoles ; (3) nodal rhythm; (4) irregularities due to failure of the conducting power of the primi- tive bundle ; (5) depression of the contractility of the ventricles—pulsus alternans. Hering's classification is A'ery similar :—(1) Pulsus irregu- laris respiratorius ; (2) pulsus extrasystolicus ; (3) pulsus irregularis perpetuus; (4) pulsus transmissorius ; (5) pulsus alternans. In dis- cussing these A-arious forms of irregularity, we shall depart from the order given, and take up, in the first place— 1. Irregularities due to Failure of the Con- ducting Power of the Primitive Bundle.— Under this head comes the very interesting and important condition known as heart-block, with its symptoms, bradycardia and Stokes- Adams disease. The phenomena of heart-block have engaged the study of so many observers, that it is impossible to enumerate all those who have helped to elucidate the subject. Mention must be made, however, of the M'ork of Mackenzie, G-. A. Gibson, Schmoll, Hay. W. T. Ritchie, and A. G. Gibson, whose noteworthy contributions to the clinical asjoects of the question have formed a fitting complement to the anatomical and physiological investigations referred to in the preceding paragraph. Minor degrees of depression of conductivity can only be recognised by taking simultaneous tracings of the jugular and radial pulses. The signs by which it is recognised are (1) prolonga- tion of the a-c interval beyond the normal i-sec. ; and (2) the occasional dropping out of a radial and carotid wave (Fig. 4). Fig. 4.—ShowiDg gradual iengtheniug of the a-c interval up to a', where the impulse fails to cross to the veutricles aud provoke a contraction. Ensuing a-c interval shorter, owiug to resting ventricle having regained its contractility. (After Mackenzie.) By the term heart-hlock is meant an interrup- tion in the wave of contraction which normally passes from the auricles to the ventricles. When the wave is blocked, instead of the auricular and ventricular contractions occurring in harmoniously co-ordinated sequence, they become dissociated and independent of one another. The ventricular contractions begin to take place much less frequently than those of the auricles, and, as a result, bradycardia is established. This bradycardia, when, as is often the case, associated with syncopal or epileptiform attacks, is known as Stokes-Adams disease. The Stokes-Adams symptom-complex