•271 NATALITY AND DEPOPULATION that is to be desired. Eugenics is a very in- teresting branch of science, and it has high aims, which are the propagation of the fit and the elimination of the unfit in reproduction; but it comes upon the stage of the world's progress at an unpropitious hour, and will have a hard battle to fight. It is no doubt true that if "the babies are to be few, they ought to be fine," in other words, if the birth-rate must fall, then the progeny of the best parents ought to be preserved at all costs ; but, unfortunately, it is precisely in what may be called the best stock that the restriction of the family is most evident. Further, there is no certain evidence that the declining birth-rate coincides with im- provement of social conditions and is part of the economy of Nature {Brit. Med. Joitrn., i. for 1906, p. 279). The great cause, then, of the falling birth-rate is the voluntary restriction of the size of the family, the seeking for a sort of " voluptuous sterility"; but there is a subsidiary cause which is of some importance, the elevation of the age when marriage is entered into. Obviously, if a man and woman marry at the ages of forty and thirty-five their chance of having a large family is much less than if they married at twenty-five and twenty. Dumont {Bull, et mem. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, 5 S. iii. p. 248, 1902) has worked out the effect of opsigamy or late marriage upon the birth-rate of France. Of the whole male population of that country between the ages of 18 and 45, 45-8 per cent, were unmarried, while of the whole female population between the ages of 15 and 40, there were 44'9 per cent, unmarried. "What mysterious obstacle was it that prevented the 44 per cent, falling figuratively into the arms of the 45 per cent. V (Edit., Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1903, p. 267). Dumont believed that the answei- was to be found in the state of society which kept a son so long dependent upon his parents. " Businesses and professions were tardily lucrative, and the parasitic stage of life was lengthened" ; further, there was the "dotal" or dowry difficulty, for French parents with their sons on their hands were unable to pro- vide dowries for their daughters ; third, there was the military service which France demanded of her young men; and, fourth, there was the example and influence of the Roman Catholic Church with its celibate clergy and its un- married nuns. Some of these reasons are inoperative in this country, but others are in action ; and there is doubtless another cause, which is touched upon by Snyder {Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc., xlix. p. 363, 1907) as delaying marriage, viz. the dread of maternity fostered in the minds of unmarried girls by the tales of matrimonial disease and disaster, and the irk- someness of caring for infants, told them by their married sisters. The fall in the birth-rate is in itself a serious phenomenon, but it is made still more grave by certain other occurrences which have been called its " aggravations " (I'mws. Edin. Obstet. Soc, xxxii. p. 17, 1906-7). The first of these is the almost stationary character of the infantile death-rate. Hygiene has greatly increased the chances of survival among individuals between the ages of 5 years and 25 years, and it has added a little to the length of the life of the aged, but it has been disappointingly ineftectual in checking the high death-rate among new- born infants. To quote fi'om the Report of the Natio7icd Cotiference on Infantile Mortaliti/ (p. 99) held in London in 1906 : " In the twenty years ended 1874, we find that out of every 1000 children born alive in England and Wales, 153 never completed their first year, while in the twenty years ended 1904, the ratio was 148 per 1000." Here, then, is the first aggravation of the decline in natality: fewer babies are being born, and they are dying off" almost as rapidly during the first year of life as they did in the past. The second aggravation is our ignorance, in this country at least, of the .still-birth-rate and of the abortion-rate ; national statistics are silent on these matters; but there is an uneasy feeling in the medical mind, resting upon the figures obtained in some localities b}^ trained mid wives and others, that these rates are in- creasing and not diminishing. In other words, out of the already fewer pregnancies more are ending in abortions and in still-births than formerly. A third aggravation is found in the increasing number of premature labours and in the infantile mortality following them, so that alongside the falling birth-rate is a depreciation in the death-resisting powers of the oflFspring due to an early termination of antenatal life and a premature entrance into the more exact- ing environment of the neor.atal state. Much has been written regarding the check- ing of the falling birth-rate, but, so far, little has been effected. Perhaps the first and most obvious step has already been taken in giving publicity to the facts of the case. The constantly recur- ring head-line in the newspapers — " the falling birth-rate" or "further decline in the birth- rate "—will in time impress the public mind and perchance awaken the national conscience. It would be well if such notices were accom- panied by comparisons with the figures of past years and by a calculation of the ainnial de- ficiency (so to speak) in babies which the lowered rate brings with it. On the other hand, there is possibly the risk that such notices in the papers may make known to married people the hitherto unsuspected exist- ence of means of preventing large families and so lead to the still more extensive employment pf "checks." This danger, however, must be faced and the truth told. Perhaps, after all, the risk is not very great; for there are other agencies (with less worthy motives) at work