77' CESAREAN SECTION marked a pelvic deformity as will make the passage of a full-time living child through the pelvis impossible is of the highest importance; and it may well be that the first step in the abolition of embryulcia in labour will be the routine performance of pelvimetry in pregnancy. If the impending presence of disproportion between the maternal pelvis and the foetal head be discovered about the sixth or seventh month of pregnancy, the medical practitioner will be able to place before his patient and her friends the alternatives of induction of prematui'c labour or of Cuesarean section at the full term. In this way he will have leisure calmly to consult his patient's best interests and those of her child, and in this way it is likely that the performance of Cajsarean section may be more often chosen for the cases of pelvic contraction in which the conjugata vera measures from 2| to 3^ inches. Of course other matters must also be considered, such as the type of pelvis, for, given two pelves with equal conjugates, one a simple or rachitic fiat and the other a generally contracted, Csesarean section will be more likely to be needed in the latter than in the former (see Jardine, Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1908, p. 800). In the midst of all the discussion which is going on at present about the widening of the indica- tions for the performance of Cesarean section in cases of moderate pelvic contraction, one must keep constantly in view that an improvement in the results of the induction of premature labour so far as the infants are concerned would at once alter all our views, and force even the con- tinental obstetricians, who are so insistent upon Caesarean section, to reconsider their position. It must not be forgotten that it is solely the high infantile mortality that prevents induc- tion of premature labour being the operation of choice in many of the cases in which Csesarean section is being so vehemently urged. It may here be added that it has been established to the point of demonstration that Csesarean sec- tion may safely be performed several times on the same patient, and Fruhinsholz (Ann. de f/yndc. et d'ohddt., xxxiii. p. 135, 1906) and Sinclair {Journ. Obstet. and Gi/nwc. Brit. Emp., xii. p. 337, 1907) have shown that, even when utero-parietal adhesions exist, their presence will not contra-indicate the repeated performance of section, although difficulties will thus be inti'o- duced. There have, of course, been cases of rupture of the cicatrix in subsequent pregnan- cies, as in Convelaire's case, in which the gesta- tion was complicated by hydramnios {Ann. de gyndc. et d'ohstet., xxxiii. p. 148, 1906); but these have been surprisingly infrequent (only eight between 1896 and 1905 according to Conve- laire). During the past few years a great many contributions to the subject of the extension of Csesarean section in moderate degi-ees of pelvic contraction have been made, and in addition to the references already given the reader may consult the following:—Pfannenstiel (Med. BL (Wien), xxix. p. 613, 1906); Bauer (Monatsschr. f. Gehurtsh. u. Gyndk, xxiv. p. 713, 1906); Davis (Surg. Gynec. and Obstet., iii. p. 593, 1906); Kholmogoroff (Bussk. Vrach, v. p. 1372, 1906); Everke (Verhavdl. d. deutKch. GeseUsch. f. Gyndk., p. 546, 1906); Wallace (Practitioner, Ixxviii. p. 337, 1907); Leopold (Arch. f. Gijnaek., Ixxxi. p. 702, 1907); Seiffart (Zentralb. f. Gyndk., xxxi. p. 956, 19o7); Calderini (Ginecologiu, iv. p. 261, 1907) ; Kynoch (Edin. Med. Journ., N. S. xxii. p. 221, 1907); Canton (Ann. de gynec. et d'obstet., 2 s. iv. p. 542, 1907); Keynolds (Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., clvii. p. 581, 1907); Reid (New Ycyi'k State Journ. Med., viii. p. 3, 1908); Gushee (Bull. Lying-in Hasp. (New York), iv. p. 91, 1907); Halpenny (Amer. Journ. Obstet., Ivii. p. 713, 1908); Reynolds (Amer. Journ. Obstet., Iviii. p. 231, 1908); Hirst (ibid., p. 128); Smith (Surg. Gynec. and Obstet., vii. p. 25, 1908) ; M'Pherson (-lourn. Amer. Med. Assoc., li. p. 734, 1908) ; Frederick (Amer. Journ. Obstet., Iviii. p. 847, 1908); Kiistner (Zeitschr. f. Gebvrtsh. v. Gyndk, Ixiii. p. 407, 1908); Allen (Amer. Journ. Obstet., lix. p. 189, 1909). Methods.—At the present time four methods of performing Csesarean section (excluding the so-called vaginal Csesarean section) are in use; these are as follow :— 1. There is fii'st what may be called the old Porro operation. At one time this method enabled the opei'ator to obtain much better results than had previously been obtained; but it is now abandoned by nearly everyone, and is carried out only in septic cases. The uterus was opened either before or after it was turned out of the al^domen ; the child was removed; the uterus was amputated supravaginally, an elastic ligature having been tied round the upper part of the cervix to control the hsemor- rhage ; the ovaries and tubes were removed with the uterus ; the uterine stump was then fastened into the lower end of the abdominal incision, at first by means of one or two long straight needles fixed at right angles, and later, as the technique was perfected, by stitching the peri- toneal covering of the stump to the peritoneum of the abdominal wall; the rest of the abdomi- nal wound was closed; and in time the stump, with the ligature round it, sloughed off, leaving a depressed wound, which slowly healed by granulation. This extra-peiitoiieal method ga\'e better results than the ordinary unimproved con- servative Csesarean section, but it was far from perfect; there was often trouble with the stump, and of maternal deaths there were not a few. 2. What has been called the new or modified Porro operation is practically a supravaginal hysterectomy, such as is commonly carried out in cases of fibroid tumour, with retro-peritoneal or sub-peritoneal treatment of the stump. The infant is extracted from the uterus; then, the patient having been placed in the Trendelen-