UTERUS, MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF 390 vaginal discharge after the menopause is sus- picious, for Findley {Amer. Journ. Obstet., Oct. 1902) has reported a case of cancer of the cervix in a woman aged 93, whose daughter had died of the same disease at the age of 48; the old lady thought it was a " return of the period." Further, medical men are recognis- ing more clearly the variability of the early signs of cancer, and are resorting more to microscopic examination of scrapings from curettings, or of pieces of tissue removed by excision. While this "crusade" has been staiting, gynecologists have been endeavouring to decide what form of ojjerative interference promises the best results in uterine cancer. At first, the introduction of vaginal hysterec- tomy marked a distinct advance : there was a great reduction of the operative mortality, and the operation itself was shorter and less diffi- cult of performance. Yet it was not long before it began to be found that the after- results wei'e not so satisfactory. Halliday Groom {Trans. EJin. Obstet. Soc, xxiv. p. 6, 1898) picked 14 out of 260 cases of cancer of the cervix as suitable for the operation of vaginal hysterectomy ; in all of them the opera- tion was quickly recovered from, but all of them were dead within a year from the recur- rence of the disease. Six years later Duret and Besson (Hev. de gynec. et de chir. abd., viii. p. 395, 1904) reported 40 cases in which the A-aginal operation was performed, and 23 in which the abdominal route was followed ; among the former cases there were six deaths (15 per cent.), and among the latter 10 (43-4 per cent.); further, of the 9 cases of the latter group which recovered from the operation, all died within one year, while of the vaginal cases 13 were free from a return of the disease at the end of two years. Still there was a strong tendency among operators, notwith- standing these unfortunate statistics, to develop the abdominal operation, and to seek for a means of dissecting out affected glands in a systematic and complete fashion (Ries, Surg., Gynec, and Obstet., Sept. 1905). When, therefore, Wertheim (Brit. J/ed. Joum., ii. for 1905, p. 689) in 1905 announced that "since the autumn of 1895, he had, with a few ex- ceptions, operated on all cases of carcinoma affecting the cervix and portio vaginalis by the alxlominal route," he found the profession ready to give him a sympathetic hearing. He further stated that he was al)le, by freeing the ureters and separating the bladder and rectum, to remove the cancerous uterus with a great deal of the surrounding cellular tissue and lymphatic glands. The Wertheim operation, thus introduced, gave 60 to 70 per cent, of patients free from recurrence of the disease after four or five years' observation, a result which no other method had yielded. It was recognised at once that its performance vastly increased the number of cases of cancer of the cervix and vaginal vault that should be con- sidered as operable; but it was also evident that it was a long and somewhat difficult operation to perform, and entailed great ana- tomical knowledge and operative skill, dex- terity, and care. Berkeley and Bonney {Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1908, p. 961), however, were able to report 18 cases of carcinoma of the cervix operated on by the Wertheim method ; 3 of these died from the operation, and of the 15 who survived, 14 were alive at the time of writing and showed no signs of recurrence, but, as the authors pointed out, the time had been too short to afford any certainty of permanent cure. Berkelej^ and Bonney thought that the operation, notwithstanding its technical difficulties (which were much greater in advanced cases than in early ones), would be in a few years the only one carried out for the cure of carcinoma of the cervix. They have modified certain steps in the pro- cedure, such as the separation of the bladder, the clamping of the vagina to prevent infection of the operation area, and the stitching of sterile linen to the edges of the incision. Cuthbert Lockyer {Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1907, p. 443) regarded Wertheim's method as " the operation of the future, and the only scientific operation for carcinoma cervicis at the present time." The stages of the operation may be enumerated. First, the cancer is disinfected as far as possible by the vagina (scraping, cauterising, etc.). Then, with the patient in the Trendelenburg position, the abdomen is opened. The posterior layer of the broad ligament is divided and the ureters exposed; the bladder is separated from the supravaginal cervix of the uterus and rolled back by digital pressure effected through a swab ; the infundibulo-pelvic, round, and broad ligaments are ligatured and divided; the uterine vessels, with the surrounding cellular tissue, are next ligatured and divided, and then the vesical portions of the ureters can be completely separated ; next, the posterior layer of the peritoneum is divided and the rectum separated from the vagina ; the vagina is again cleansed at this stage, clamped in its upper part, and then cut across ; the cancerous organ is now removed, and the dissection of the lymphatic glands proceeded with, every one that is at all enlarged being extirimted. The cavity of the wound is then lightly packed with gauze which extends to the vulva, and the peritoneum is closed by sewing together the anterior and posterior flaps above the operation area which is being drained by the gauze. Finall}', the abdominal wound is closed. Berkele}' {Journ. Obstet. and Gynrcc. Brit. Em-p., XV. p. 145, 1909) has published, during the present year, an able summary of results