184 HEREDITY 3 :1 or 75 per cent, to 25 per cent. Mr. E. C. Punnett {Mendelism, 1905) puts the results concisely thus: " Wherever there occurs a pair of differentiating characters, of which one is dominant to the other, three possibilities exist—there are recessives which always breed true to the recessive character; there are dominants which breed true to the dominant character, and are therefore pure; and thirdly, there are dominants which may be called impure, and which, on self-fertilisation (or inbreeding, where the sexes are separate), give both dominant and recessive forms in the fixed proportion of three of the former to one of the latter." The characters (in the case referred to above, tallness and shortness) which thus segregate or dissociate from each other are described as allelomorphic. Professor J. Arthur Thomson {Heredity, p. 340, 1908) gives a useful schematic representa- tion of these phenomena, which is reproduced below. D stands for the dominant character and R for the recessive (whatever these may be), and D(R) means that the dominant char- acter is present whilst the recessive is appar- ently absent. D 5 xR xD <y Parent-forms (P^) D(R) Hybrid offspring (F^) 1 D D 3 D 1 R . . Generation of inbred hybrids (F^) D(R) 3 D ID -f 2 D(R) 1 R R . . (F'') D D 3D 1 R R R . . (F^) 1 D 2 D(R) I D D D R R R . . (F=) Mendel and those who after a lapse of forty years have rediscovered this law of inheritance in hybrid varieties advance the following theory to explain the phenomena which have been referred to above. It is assumed that the hybrid offspring (F^) contain material repre- sentatives of the unit characters {e.g. tallness and shortness), although they themselves show only one (viz. tallness), the parent with the dominant character having been prepotent. But the first generation of inbred hybrids (F^) show both tall and dwarf plants. To explain this, it is argued that the germ cells of the hybrid offspring (F') divide themselves into two groups (two kinds of egg-cells and two kinds of pollen- grains), one group with the potential quality of tallness and the other with that of shortness or dwarfness ; the two groups are supposed to be practically of equal size, and therefore, when self-fertilisation takes place, the chances of an egg-cell being impregnated by a pollen-grain with tallness, or by a pollen-grain with short- ness, are equal. If, now, there are eight egg- cells, four with the potential quality of tallness and four with that of shortness, and if there are eight pollen cells similarly arranged ; then, in fertilisation, two egg-cells with tallness will be fertilised by two pollen-grains with tallness, two egg-cells with shortness will be fertilised by two pollen grains with shortness, and the remaining four egg-cells (two with tallness and two with shortness) will be fertilised by the remaining four pollen-grains (two with short- ness and two with tallness); the result will be two fertilised egg-cells with tallness, two with shortness, and four with both tallness and shortness. But since tallness is dominant, the last-named four will show it alone, the quality of shortness being latent in them ; in other words, there will be six with tallness and two with shortness, or three dominants to one reces- sive, 2 D -h 4 D(R) -^ 2 R. This explanation is both simple and satisfactory, and it is known as the theory of gametic segregation. It is