295 POLIOMYELITIS ANTERIOR ACUTA spondiug months in the southern hemisphere. There is no evidence that epidemics are followed in ensuing years by an increased number of sporadic cases, as occurs in cerebro - spinal meningitis. Epidemics cover a wide extent of country, and the incidence of the disease is little influenced by locality and surroundings. The mortality is somewhat high—12 per cent. " The discrepancy between these figures and the opinions drawn from a study of the sporadic form of the disease is, we believe, explained liv the fact that cases with bulbai' symptoms, which make up most of the fatal cases in epidemics, have not been recognised as poliomyelitis when they occur in scattered instances " (Holt and Bartlett). Most patients are under four-, but during epidemics a large number of older children and adults are attacked than at other times. Wickmann states that in the Norwegian epidemic the inculcation period was in most cases one to four days. The disease spread by direct contact and through the inter- mediary of healthy persons. It spread along lines of communication (roads and railways) ; it tended to occur in foci, beginning with one or two isolated cases, and to linger on in a disti-ict in which it had once taken hold. Holt and Bartlett are more guarded as to the com- inunicability of the disease ; they regard it as an open question, and think that it can only be communicable "to a very slight degree." Morbid Anatomy.—The chief point is that the lesions of anterior poliomyelitis must no longer be considered as limited to the anterior horns of grey matter, but are widely spread throughout the central nervous system—cord, medulla, and brain. The primary lesion is in the pia mater, and even in mild cases there is a generalised inflammation of the cord, brain, and cerebral and spinal meninges. There is a diffuse infiltrative myelitis chiefly of the grey and also of the white matter; the cellular infiltration spreads along the vessels. The cortex and cranial nerve nuclei may be in- volved. The process is not embolic. Bacteria have not been demonstrated. Wollstein could find no evidence of antigens or antibodies in the cerebre-spinal fluid. Clinical Features.—These have been care- fully studied by Medin of Stockholm. The disease, indeed, is now called by some authors " Heine-Medin's disease,"in recognition of Heine, who first described the classical type in 1840, and Medin, who has elaborated the clinical picture by including the atypical cases which occur in seasons of epidemic. Medin adopts the follow- ing classification of cases :—(1) Spinal form. (2) Ascending or descending paralysis (Landry's paralysis). (3) Bulbar or pontine form. (4) Cerebral form (5) Ataxic form. (6) Poly- neuritis. (7) Meningeal form. Emphasis is laid on the occurrence of initial symptoms pointing to widespread early impli- cation of the meninges—fever, headache, stiff- ness of the back, and tenderness over the spine. 1. Spinal Form.—The symptoms of this, the classical type of the disease, are so well known as to need no description except in one par- ticular. Wickmann points out, as has also been done by Ibrahim, that paralysis of the abdominal muscles is not very uncommon. Either the whole abdomen, or merely one segment of it, may be paralysed. The para- lysis shows itself by a marked ballooning of the affected area when the patient ci'ies or strains. If the paralysis is localised and per- manent it leads to a liernia. Previous to 190.5 Oppenheim had stated that there was no evi- dence of segmental innervation of the abdominal muscles. He thought that a lesion between the eighth and eleventh dorsal segments would paralyse the musculature of the whole of one side of the abdomen, and described an " abdo- minal symptom - complex " characterised by unilateral diminution of the abdominal reflexes, deviation of the umbilicus to the healthy side, and bulging of the paralysed half of the abdomen. Ibrahim and others, however, have recorded cases of localised paralysis and wasting of the abdominal muscles from anterior poliomyelitis, thereby proving that a segmental innervation exists. 2. Landry Type.—These are very often fatal —45 out of 159 deaths were due to ascending or descending paralysis in Wickmann's series of cases. " Landry's paralysis " in the adult is, according to Medin, the same as " ascending anterior poliomyelitis " in the child. 3. B-idhar or Pontine Form.—The nerves most frequently involved are the facial and hypoglossal; the muscles of the eyes, of the throat, or of the larynx may be paralysed. Any of the medullary centres may be affected. 4. Encephalic Form.—This is rare ; it corre- sponds with Striimpell's polio-encephalitis. 5. Ataxic Form.—In this an ataxic gait and paresis of groups of muscles are the chief symp- toms. The reflexes are often increased. The lesion is uncertain. 6. Polyneuritis.—The cases which are sug- gestive of this type are—(1) Such as recover rapidly and completely ; (2) those with evidence of lesion of a single nerve ; (3) acute ataxias. 7. Meningeal Forms.—These must obviously resemble cerebro-spinal meningitis somewhat closely. The following table of distinctions is abridged from one drawn up by Wickmann :— Heine-Medin's Disease. 1. Residual paralysis is usually of limbs ; permanent. 2. Fever of short duration. H. Herpes rare. 4. Rashes absent. 5. No sequelae. 6. No hyrocephalic stage. Epidemic Meningitis. Usually of eye muscles ; transitory. Prolonged. Common. Freqent. Deafness common. Hydrocephalus common.