HEART, DISEASES OF 180 Pulsus alternans is not common ; it has to be distinguished from continued pulsus bige- minus {v. supra). It is not always easy to discern the difference in force between the two beats by the finger. Pulsus alternans becomes more marked when the heart acts quickly, as after exercise; less marked when the heart is slow, as under digitalis. Sig7iificance of the Various Forms of Arrhyth- mia.—The chief practical point is to distinguish the mild forms of irregularity (respiratory arrhythmia and extra-systole) from those which are serious (lowered conductivity, continuous irregularity and pulsus alternans). Respiratory arrhythmia is never in itself serious ; it may signify organic brain disease. Extra-systole, if due to tea or tobacco, or if associated with sul)jective sensation of a jog in the region of the heart, is of functional origin. Occurring in cardiac disease, extra- systoles do not add to the gravity of the condition. Possibly when they develop in the course of pneumonia or acute rheumatism they may point to the myocardium becoming im- plicated (Mackenzie). Continued irregularity is always ominous, as it shows that the heart muscle has undergone organic changes. When it sets in suddenly it may gradually embarrass the heart. In heart disease the prognosis depends on how the circulation is maintained (presence or absence of cyanosis, dropsy, etc.) in spite of the nodal rhythm, and on the response to treatment. In pneumonia and other acute infections continuous irregularity is a very bad sign (Mackenzie). A mild degree of lowered conduction should be accepted as a warning that myocardial changes have begun. It is necessary to use caution in administering digitalis under these circumstances, on accoinit of the effect of the drug in depressing conductivity. Patients suffering from bradycardia may live for many years. When syncopal attacks occur, the prognosis is uncertain, as the patient may die in a seizure. Pulsus alternans is always a serious sign, especially in cases of arterio-sclerosis, and in acute infections (Mackenzie). LITERATURE.—This is very extensive, and only a ieyi of the papers can be mentioned. Acknowledgment must specially be made of the debt which the compiler iif this section owes to Dr. Mackenzie's Diseases of the Heart (Lond.), 1908. A full classified list of references will be found in this book. General Aktiolks.—Geehardt, "Cardiac Arrhyth- mia," Ergeh. d. inner. Med. u. Kinderheilk., Bd. ii., 1908 (with literature).— Hkring, "Clinical Diagnosis," Miinch. med. Wochensch., No. 47, 24th Nov. 1908.—G. A. Gibson, "Cause of Heart-Beat," Edin. Med. Journ., July 1907.—GossAGE, "Autom.atic Rhythm of Heart," Brit. Med. Journ., 2Sth Dec. 1907.—Hkring," Irregular Action," Verhand. d. Contjr. f. inner. Med., 1906.— IjEWIS, " Venous Pulse," Brit. Med. Journ., 14th Nov. 1908. Anatomy and Physiology.—Erlanger, Journ. Exper. Med., Jan. 1906 ; Brit. Med. Journ., 27th Oct. 1906.— Keith and Flack, Lancet, i. p. 623 ; ii. p. 359, 1906. —Tawara, Das reizleitungs System d. Saiigelierherzens (Jena), 1906 ; Brit. Med. Journ., 5th May and 27th Oct. 1906. Heart-Block.—G. A. Gibson, Brit. Med. Journ., 27th Oct. 1906 ; and W .T. Ritchie, Practitioner, May 1907.—Mackenzie, Brit. Med. Journ., 27th Oct. 1906. —A.. G. Gibson, Quarterly Journ. of Med., Jan. 1908 ; July 1908.—Jellinek and Cooper, Bi-it. Med. Journ., 4th April 1908.—Schmoll, Deutsche Arch. f. klin. Med., Bd. 87, Hft. 5 u. 6, 1906.—Hay, Manchester Medical Chronicle, Sept. 1908. Extra-Systole.—W. T. Ritchie, Scott. Med. and Surg. Journ., June 1907.— HoCHHAUS, Miinch. med. Wochensch., 26th Feb. 1907.— Mackbnzie, Quarterly Journ. of Med., Jan. and July 1907. Continued Irregularity. — Mackenzie, Brit. Med. Journ., 5th Mar. 1904. Pulsus alternans.— Tabora, Miinch. med. Wochensch., Nos. 14 and 41, 1908, Heart, Surgery of.—Operative Treat- ment of Mediastiiio^jericarditis.—In 1902 Brauer proposed operation for cases of mediastino- pericarditis in which the pericardium was bound down to the ribs and sternum, and the move- ments of the heart interfered with. Up to 1906 Paschkis [Ceiitralbl. f. Grenzgehiete d. Medizin u. chirurgie, 1906, Bd. ix. s. 1) found records of only seven cases so dealt with. The opera- tion is useless in cases of adherent pericardium— i.e. fibrous union of the parietal and visceral layers of the meml)rane—and perhaps the difficulty of making a correct diagnosis in this respect may have prevented the operation being more frequently undertaken, because in all cases the results seem to have been good. Only one patient is known to have died, and that of broncho-pneumonia, ten months after operation. The symptom complex consists of subjective and objective signs of cardiac insufficiency, plus more or less systolic retraction of the thorax, absence of apex beat, diastolic collapse of the jugular veins, increase of the area of cardiac dulness, sometimes the pulsus para- doxus, reduplication of the sounds, and usually evidences of old pleurisy. The usual operation for cardiolysis consists in raising a skin flap, resecting periosteally the ribs from the 3rd to the 5th, from the left sternal margin to the anterior axilla, replacing the flap, and draining. As above stated no bad results followed ; patients under observation for so long as eighteen months enjoyed good health and freedom from cardiac symptoms. SzijjpunUive Pericarditis.—There can scarcely be any question as to the propriety of draining the pericardial sac when pus is present in it. The difficulty, however, is one of diagnosis, for few acute intra-thoracic diseases are so liable to escape detection as purulent pericarditis. Accord- ing to Elliot, the disease had been operated on forty-seven times up to 1900 (Annuls of Surgery, xlix., 1909, p. 60), and he tabulates twenty-three cases which occurred between that date and the time of publication of his paper. What adds to the gravity of the prognosis is that in most