BLOOD 66 ance of respiration, (2) in anaemia, (3) in toxaemias of metabolic origin, (4) in suppura- tion and bacterial infections. The chief imports ance of the reaction is in the diagnosis of the last series of diseases. Croupous pneumonia, empyema, abscess and gangrene of the lung, sepsis of all kinds, acute appendicitis and peritonitis all give a marked positive reaction. On the whole, then, the reaction occurs in the same class of case as does polynuclear leuco- cytosis, but it is a less ambiguous sign than the latter. Leucocytosis occurs in conditions in which the glycogen reaction is negative, and conversely in severe septic infections and pneumonia there may be no leucocytosis, while the glycogen reaction is very intense. Locke insists that a well-marked glycogen reaction occurs only in patients who are really seriously ill, hence its detection in a case which does not admit of a positive diagnosis should always put the observer on his guard. Examination of Stained Films. — The blood stains at pi'csent in use for clinical pur- poses are Ehrlich's triacid stain, Leishman's stain, and Jenner's stain. Of these the last is the most generally useful. Ehrlich's triacid stain is a mixture of fuchsin, orange G., and methyl green ; Leishman's and Jenner's stains are eosin-methylene blue dyes, in which the latter has the polychromatic properties of Romanowsky's stain. The preparation of these stains is difficult, and it is best to procure them i-eady made either in solution or tablet form. Method. — Triacid Stain. — Griibler's triacid should be used. Films are made in the usual way (Encj/chp. and Did., i. p. 420) and fixed Tiy heat, either in an oven or an oblong copper plate (2 ins. by 10 ins.), one end of which is heated by a Bunsen flame. Where an oven is used, the films are slowly raised to a tempera- ture of 160° C, and then allowed to cool gradually. When the second method is em- ployed, water is dropped on the plate at the end farthest from the flame until a spot is found at which it boils. Instead of water, xylol, which boils at 137° C, or toluol, which boils at 110° C, may be used. On one of these spots the films are placed face downwards for a period varying from five minutes at 160° to half an hour at 100°. The important point in heat fixation is to employ a sufficiently high temperature; bad differentiation is generally due to underheating. The best results with triacid are got by heat fixation, but, as Gulland has pointed out, it is not absolutely essential, for very fair pictures can be got by fixing the air-dried film for three minutes in 10 per cent, formalin alcohol. It is then washed and stained. The triacid solution should in either case be allowed to act for three minutes. In good preparations the red cells are orange, the neutrophile gi'anules are violet-brown, the eosinophile granules violet-red, the nuclei green ; basophile granules do not stain. The nuclei react with varying degrees of affinity to this stain : those of erythroblasts are deep greenish-blue, with well-defined outlines ; those of polynuclears are scarcely so intense; while the lymphocytes and large mononuclears are often very faintly tinged. In underfixed films the red cells are reddish-brown, in overfixed films they are pale lemon-yellow. Jenner's Stain.—The solvent of this stain, methyl alcohol, also fixes the films, so that the two processes of dyeing and fixing are carried out simultaneously. When this, or Leishman's stain, is used in the form of tablets, chemically pure methyl alcohol (Merck) must be used. A few drops of the stain are allowed to fall on the air-dried film, which may be covered to pi'event evaporation. The dye is allowed to act for from one to five minutes; the film is rapidly washed in distilled water, and allowed to dry in the air. It must not be heated. Gulland advises staining for a shorter time (I to IJ mins.); if one wishes the methylene blue to predominate, one should stain for a shorter time; if the eosin, for a longer time. Bad results are usually due to too prolonged staining. In successful preparations the red corpuscles are rose-red, nuclei blue, eosinophile granules ruby, neutrophile granules pink, baso- phile granules deep violet-blue, malaria parasites and bacteria blue. The weak point about the stain is that it does not always differentiate the neutrophile granules satisfactorily. Leishman's Stain.—Enough stain is dropped on the unfixed air-dried smear to cover the whole cover-glass. This is allowed to act undiluted for half a minute (to fix the film) and then distilled water is added drop by drop until a translucent scum appears on the surface. About twice as much water as stain is required. The dilute dye is allowed to act for five minutes, and then washed off with distilled water. In Leishman-stained specimens the nuclei are a red-violet, eosinophile granules pink, neutro- phile granules red, red cells pink or greenish, malaria parasites pale blue, with carmine-stained nuclei. Leishman's stain often fails to differen- tiate the neutrophile granules satisfactorily. Comparison of these Stains.—They together give the maximum of clinical information, and it is unnecessary to supplement them by others in ordinary work. Jenner's is, on the whole, the most useful, and in good preparations gives all the necessary information. Unfortunately, however, the neutrophile granules are not always well brought out, and when this is the case it is impossible to distinguish between large lymphocytes and neutrophile myelocytes. For this reason it is often advisable to control it with a specimen stained by the triacid stain, which excels in differentiating neutrophile granules, though it is not so good for lympho- cytes. Leishman's stain is less useful in ordinary