■248 LUNGS AND THOEAX, SURGERY OF THE Surgery, li. 1910, p. 230. In the execution of a lung resection two difficulties arise—the treatment of the operative wound of the lung, and the prevention of pneumothorax. The use of differential pressure obviates with cer- tainty the dangers of lung collapse. More or less extensive removal of lung tissue has been practised for the relief of tumours of the chest wall involving the lung, and for bronchiectasis; in some cases a whole lobe, and in one two lobes, have been removed. The extirpation of a complete lobe has been attended with poor results, the patients having succumbed within at most a few days after the operation. In experimental work on animals, using the differential pressure chamber, an entii'C lobe can be ablated without causing death, and even after removal of a whole lung the mortality is not very high. The animals rarely die as an immediate result of ligature of the vessels or air-passages at the hilus. When death occurs it is due to reflex vagus stimulation. Some animals die from infection, others from so-called " tension pneumothorax" and mediastinal em- physema from the escape of air from an improperly treated bronchus. These two dangers, therefore, can be avoided by («) careful asepsis, and {b) proper treatment of the bronchial stump. Probably the best method of closing the bronchus is that adopted by Willy Meyer—crushing the cartilage at two points, and folding in and suturing. After the removal of one lung, considerable empty space remains in the pleural cavity, but this fills up by a compensatory displacement of organs, which begins immediately after operation, and in young animals, may be complete in eight days. In older animals, or where for any reason the mediastinum cannot change its position, the obliteration of the cavity may be impos- sible, and it becomes filled with a transudate. The success of lung extirpation depends on the prevention of such a transudate. In Sauerbruch's pneumatic cabinet, the head of the patient remains outside when the anais- thetic is being administered, and the rest of the body remains inside the cabinet, which is large enough to accommodate the operator and assistants. When the cabinet is closed, the pressure in it can be lowered by about 10 mm. of mercury, equivalent to a difference in level of 1000-1200 feet. The patient, breathing air at the external pressure, does not suffer from collapse of the lungs, as would otherwise occur. After the operation the dressings are applied and hermetically sealed before the pressure is equalised. Subsequent dressings can be made in the same way. Brauer has introduced a positive pressure apparatus, in which the patient breathes air ander pressure. It consists of a glass chamber fitted to the patient's face, with means for giving the anaesthetic and collecting the expired air in a pressure box guarded by a valve. Dreyer finds that in animals there is no difference between the two methods as regards effect on blood pressure and respira- tion, while Kiittner {Zentralblatt f. Chirurgie, 29th Aug., 1908) states that both are equally convenient. Sauerbruch and Robinson performed total extirpation of the left lung in a series of twenty- eight dogs by three different methods—simple excision through an intercostal incision with primary suture; secondly, extirpation with primary thoracoplasty; thirdly, a two-stage operation. In the first series, performed with a positive pressure apparatus, the mortality was very high as compared with the earlier results of these and other experimenters using a negative pressure apparatus. These contradic- tory results are ascribed solely to the differences in the apparatus used. In employing the pneu- matic negative pressui'e cabinet, the negative pressure which has been produced in the thorax during the operation persists after the wound is sealed by the dressings, and continues to facilitate the compensatory displacement of organs, producing a state of matters unfavour- able to the occui-rence of a transudate. With the positive pressure apparatus, on the other hand, the pressure in the pleural ca'vdty after the operation is that of the surrounding air, and as a negative pressure exists in the un- opened pleural cavity the mediastinum tends to draw away from, rather than towards, the side operated on. We have, in fact, a simple closed pneumothorax, minus the normal air- absorbing surface of the lung. During the period which elapses before the air is absorbed transudation is liable to occur. With negative pressure the conditions after lung extirpation are favourable to a prompt diminution in the resulting cavity—with positive pressure the reverse. While removal of an entire lung will probably never become practicable in human surgeiy, the same conditions apply to partial excisions, hence the distinction which has been found in these experiments to exist between the two forms of differential pressure apparatus is of much importance. The object of combining thoracoplasty with extirpation is to provide for immobility of the mediastinum by diminishing the size of the cavity through the removal of ribs. When two ribs only were resected the animals died; one of two dogs which had four ribs resected survived; two of four animals which had six or seven ribs resected survived. In all cases of extensive resection there was marked dyspnoea. The mechanical displacement of the mediastinal septum after the removal of the chest wall has a serious effect on the great vessels, and in interfering with the action of the heart. The object of the two-sitting operation was to dis- cover the practicability of avoiding primary sutui'c of the bronchus, e.g. as might be