263 MENSTRUATION, MORBID (especially the inferior ones), and that the nasal changes were not periodic but persisted through- out the gestation, causing epistaxis in 25 per cent, of the cases. They sometimes continued during the puerperium. and were not influenced by lactation. The swelling of the turbinated bones increased during the pains of labour. In certain patients swelling of the septum of the nose and of the turbinated bones seemed to cause hyperemesis gravidarum, for the vomiting ceased after the application of the galvano- cautery to the swollen parts. Hypersemia of the pharynx and hypertrophy of the tonsils were less frequently met with in pregnancy than were the nasal changes. A statistical investigation of primaiy and secondary dysmenorrhoea in girls has been made by Marie Tobler {Monatssch. f. Geburtsh. u. Gyndk., xxvi. p. 801, 1907). Seven hundred cases were reviewed ; in 234 of these the symp- tom was primary (i.e. began at the menarche), and in 466 it was secondary. She found that the dysmenorrhoea of young girls was markedly premenstrual, and had its climax during the first hours of the show of blood ; it was very often secondary, a fact which was not in favour of its mechanical origin (uterine displacements and stenoses); neither was there evidence to show that its origin lay in the nervous system. The conclusion drawn was that disturbances of the pelvic circulation constituted the common causes. Herman and Andrews {Journ. Obstet. ami Gyncfc. Brit. Emp., iii. pp. 1, 83, 1903), on the other hand, from a review of cases at the London Hospital, have ascribed the pain to uterine contractions, and have seen marked benefit following cervical dilatation. Routh [Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1906, p. 234) gives an able summary of the modern aspects of dysmenorrhoea, both as regards causation and treatment. Among the new methods of treatment which have been introduced for the alleviation of metrorrhagia and dysmenorrhcea is radio- therapy. Fraenkel {Zentralb. f. Gyndk., xxxii. p. 142,1908) employed the Rontgen rays in such cases with good effect; but he warns others who may use this agent to make the applications in such a way as to avoid the sterilising effect of the rays upon the ovaries. The effect of styptol in cases of idiopathic dysmenorrhoea is highly spoken of by Jacoby {Therap. d. Gegenw., xlvii. p. 253, 1906); the improvement which follows is ascribed to the double sedative and haemo- static properties of the drug. For stubborn cases of dysmenorrhoea, Polano {Miinck. med. Wochensch., liv. p. 1731, 1907) recommends the application of Klapp's stiction apparatus to each breast for a quarter to half an hour at a time for some days before the onset of the menstrual flow. 3. Intermenstrual Pain (Mittelschmerz). —Closely associated with dysmenorrhoea is mid-pain (Mittelschmerz), a little-understood phenomenon, apt to recur, and difficult to cure. It has recently been discussed at a meeting of the Royal Academy of Medicine in Ireland (Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1909, p. 91), in con- nection with contributions by Purefoy and Shiell, when it was suggested that it was due to some form of toxaemia arising from an excess of internal secretion of the ovary. Purefoy did not regard it as due to hydro- salpinx. Rosner [Gynecologie, x. p. 230, 1905) agreed with Richelot in ascribing intermen- strual pain to diffuse hyperasmia and hyper- trophy of the uterus of a non-inflammatory nature ; he did not regard it as set up by contractions of the Fallopian tubes. He thought that varicosity of the pelvic veins was a causal factor, and recommended system- atic firm packing of the ^'agina (to support the veins) as a means of treatment. It must be confessed that no thoroughly satisfactory mode of treatment has been discovered ; curettage, dilatation, and drugs have all failed, and hyster- ectomy and oophorectomy are hardly justifiable. Associated, perhaps, with Mittelschmerz is in- termenstrval fever, of which Van Voornweld {Zeitsch. f. Tuberk. u. Heilstdltemv., vii. p. 543, 1905) has recorded an instance in a girl of 18 suffering from phthisis ; the observer did not regard the phenomenon as due to tubercular salpingitis, but that morbid state could not be absolutely excluded ; he was inclined to look upon the fever as a token of a periodical inter- menstrual hyperaesthesia of the heat centre. H. Kraus [Wien. med. Wochensch., Iv. p. 610, 1905) has found premenstrual fever in two- thirds of the tubercular patients under his care ; in some of these cases the rise in tem- perature was intermenstrual; it bore no rela- tion to the gravity of the general tubercular infection. It must be admitted that the Mittelschmerz is still a mystery. 4. Menstruatio PRiECOX.—A certain degree of mystery surrounds also early menstruation (menstruatio jjrcecox). According toWischmann (Norsk. Mag. f. Laegevidensk., 5 R. i. p. 306, 1903) there are two groups, that in which the phenomenon is associated with rickets or hydro- cephalus, and that in which it is accompanied by other signs of puberty (enlargement of mammaj, appearance of hair on the mons and elsewhere). Wischmann himself records a case of the latter type, in which menstruation began at the age of 18 months; there were twelve periods. In Nacke's patient (Zentralb. f.Gyndk., xxxii. p. 1116, 1908) there were signs of rickets during the first two years of life, and at the age of 3 menstruation began, and soon after- wards other signs of puberty began to appear. At the age of 5 years the child had the build of 8 years, and the vagina and left ovary had the development of a child of 11. Her mother bad been pregnant eleven times, and Nacke