■290 PIROPLASMOSIS infection with one of the piroplasmata (Piro- plasma canis, higeminum, mutatis); such diseases are bovine hsemoglobinuria, Texas Fever, Tick Fever, South African Red Water, Heart Water, and probably Dum-dum Fever. Pirquet's Reaction. — A cutaneous tuberculin reaction, of which Moro's salve reac- tion is a modification. See Immunity (Specific Tuberculin Tests); LuPUS VULGARIS {Pirquet's Reaction). Pistoia Gout Powder.—A powder containing colchicum corm, bryony root, betony root, gentian root, and camomile. See Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1909, p. 852. Pitchblende.—-S'eeRoNTOEN Rays and Radium. Pituitary Fluid.—A proprietary pre- paration, stated to be a 20 per cent, extract of the separated infundibular portion (posterior lobe) of the fresh pituitary gland, with the protein matter carefully eliminated. Pituitary Gland, Surgery of. Physiology, Recent Researches . 290 Pathology, Experimental . . .290 Medication by Pituitary Extract . 290 Surgery, Hypophysectomy . . . 290 Pntracra7iial Method . . . .291 Extracranial Method . . . .291 Supranasal Route . . . .291 Infranasal Route . . . .292 Oronasal Method .... 292 Literature 292 Under the heading of Acromegaly {see p. 24) some references have been made to the surgical treatment thereof by removal of the tumour of the hypophysis cerebri, which is often found associated with that disease ; but the subject of the pituitary body calls for some further con- sideration. There is still much that is mysterious about the pituitary gland. It is a very small, almost a minute structure, and yet it would seem to be as essential to life as the suprarenal capsule ; at any rate its removal in dogs is invariably followed by death, as the experiments of Paulesco, Reford, Gushing, Crowe, and Homans show. Further, great care was taken in its experimental removal to avoid any fallacies, for so elaborate an opei^ative technique was adopted that absolute asepsis was generally achieved; in a word, the dogs were treated as carefully as if they had been human beings undergoing operation in hospital. The removal of the whole pituitary gland (total hypophysectomy) always led to the death of the animal, although puppies lived for several days longer than adult dogs. In a day or two after removal the dog showed some dulness and lassitude, then its tempei'ature began to fall and continued to do so till it almost reached that of the room in which it was being kept; the blood pressure also fell, and along with this fall there was a slowing of the pulse, which also became feeble and irregular ; the respirations likewise slowed down remarkably ; some stiffness of the muscles began to show itself and affected specially the hind legs; sugar sometimes appeared in the urine, and the amount of urine fell or dis- appeared entirely ; then twitchings (rhythmic, easilj'' set up, and spasmodic) of the muscles were noticed ; and, finally, the animal passed into a coma, which deepened into death. Partial hypophysectomy produced results which diflfered according to the part excised. If the posterior lobe was taken away, no characteristic symptoms followed ; if the anterior part was removed, the same symptoms occurred as were noted after complete hypoph3'sectomy ; but if only a part of the anteiior lobe was excised certain changes occurred to which the name of hypopituitarism has been given. The animal tended to put on fat, and if it were an adult dog its genital organs diminished in size, whilst if it were a puppy, it remained sexually non- potent. Resistance to infection was lessened, the temperature had a tendency to fall below the normal, sugar appeared in the urine along with an increase in the amount of urine secreted, and there were psychical disturbances of various kinds in some instances. That these phenomena were really due to removal of the pituitary gland or of its internal secretion was confirmed by the fact that transplantation of the gland, or even the injection of an emulsion made from the anterior lobe was cajjable of delaying death, and even, in instances of partial hypophysectomy, of permanently keeping the animal in life. These experiments have also opened the way to hypophysary medication or treatment by means of such preparations as pituitary ex- tract and pituitrin (extract of the infundibular or posterior part of the gland). Several morbid states have been found to be benefited thereby, e.g. shock, intestinal paresis, uterine atony, as well as in jjituitary insufficiency and hyperactivitj^ and in what are called some- what fancifully the polyglandular syndromes (exophthalmic goitre, acromegaly). Delille, Blair Bell, Rowell, and many others have written upon the therapeutic uses of the drug, but in this article we are concerned rather with the surgical relations of the gland than the beneficial activity of its extract. The great jjroblem in the surgery of the pituitary gland is to find an eas}^ and at the same time a safe route of approach and mode of access. Two routes have been used, the intracranial and the extracranial (or trans- sphenoidal) ; but each has its disadvantages, the