227 LABOUR, INDUCTION OF PREMATURE to displace the presenting part. On the whole it would appear that the hydrostatic bag is more often used by Continental obstetricians (Burger, Arch. f. Gynaek., Ixxvii. p. 485, 1905-6 ; Plauchu, Lyon med., cviii. p. 144, 1907), and the bougie by British and American authori- ties (Hirst, Amer. Med, ix. p. 723, 1905). Jardine (Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1907, p. 427), however, seems to prefer the bag. Humphrey Davy {Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1906, p. 302) would combine the two methods, introducing first the bougie, and, if this be insufficient, in- serting some hours later a Barnes bag into the vagina. Some years ago the injection of glycerine into the uterus, or Pelzer's method of inducing labour, was given a somewhat ex- tensive trial, both in this country and abroad; it is now very little heard of, but it is interest- ing to note that SchefFczyk (Arch. f. Gynaek., Ixxv. p. 633, 1905) uses a sheep's bladder filled with glycerine to set up labour pains, thus combining the oxytocic action of the latter with the mechanical effect of the former. It must, however, Ije somewhat difficult to be sure that Scheffczyk's " glycerine - bag" is aseptic. At any rate the glycerine method is contra-indicated in cases of nephritis. Other methods of inducing labour, e.g. by plugging the vagina, by tents, by electricity, might be referred to ; but they are little used, and an estimate of their value may be found in Williamson's summary iJonrn. Ohstet. and Gynoic. Brit. Emp., viii. pp. 250, 271, 1905). Possibly, in time to come, a chemical excitant of labour, perhaps a placental extract or hor- mone, which shall be free from the dangerous effects of ergot, may be discovered ; theoretically it would seem that uterine action thus set up would be both effective and safe; but no such tocophoric agent is at present known. Labour, Management of. Obstetric Armamentarium . . .227 Obstetric Bed 228 Rubber Gloves anb Mask . . .228 Vaginal Douching .... 228 Handwashing 229 Anaesthesia and Anesthetics . . 229 Obstetric Binder .... 232 Treatment of the Umbilical Cord . 232 Care of the Perineum . . . 233 Third Stage Rules . . . .234 General Principles .... 234 Since the beginning of the twentieth century there is hardly a detail in the management of an ordinary labour that has not been criticised, and, in some cases, altered. The midwifery bag, the midwifery bed, the mother's and the infant's binder, the obstetric douche, the cleansing of the obstetrician's hands, the sup- port of the perineum, the vaginal examination. and the technique of the umbilical cord have all been called in question, with the result that, on the whole, labour is now conducted with greater safety because on more nearly aseptic principles than previously. Asepsis is now placed first in the management of a mid- wifery case, and it is only when, for some reason or other, asepsis is found to be im- possible of attainment that the obstetrician falls back upon antisepsis. This means, inter alia, that routine vaginal douching with anti- septic lotions in labour and the puei'perium has been abandoned, and that reliance is placed upon the thorough cleansing and keeping clean of the vulva and neighbouring parts during the confinement, upon the sterilisation of all instruments which are brought within the genital sphere, and upon the special care of the hands of the obstetrician and midwife (by prolonged scrubbing, washing in antiseptic lotions, wearing of indiarubber gloves, etc.). With regard, in the first place, to the obstetrical armameutariimi, various plans were soon suggested for improving the midwifery bag in order to prevent the risk of infection being carried from one case to another in its interstices or on its contents. Its lining was made washable and removable, the bag itself was made large enough to contain a metal steriliser, or a modified bag was constructed consisting in part of a sterilising chamber (see Higgins, Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., cxlii. p. 88, 1900; Lipes, Ann. Gynec. and Pediat., xiv. p. 912, 1900-1901). But none of these plans commended itself very readily to the profession, and it was not till the beginning of the twentieth century that the attempt was made to replace the bag by something that should be a steriliser first and a bag only in a secondary sense. Edgar, in his Practice of Obstetrics, p. 502, 1903, cut the Gordian knot of difficulty by making the obstetric bag con- sist of two metal trays with a leather cover of a portmanteau shape fitting over them both. The trays were of sheet-iron enamelled in white; one of them was shallower than the other but slightly longer and broader, and in it the deeper but shorter and narrower tray rested when ready for transportation ; and while one of them contained the bottles and other glass-ware, the other held the obstetrician's operating-coat, douche, dressings, and instru- ments. The principle upon which Edgar pro- ceeded was sound: the bag was simple and had no complicated fittings, it was sterilisable by boiling in all its parts (save the cover), it consisted of trays in which the various instru- ments might be sterilised, and it had a sufficient resemblance outwardly to the ordinary bag so as not to suggest a novelty. J. \V. Ballantyne {Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1904, p. 1303) modified Edgar's bag, making it lighter, smaller, and cheaper, and giving it a washable canvas cover.