CANCER 85 of the experimental work done in recent years. Jensen's tumour is a subcutaneous adeno- carcinoma, homologous in every respect with carcinoma as it is met with in man, and is looked upon by virtually all pathologists as a true cancer. There are some who dissent from this view. Lazarus Barlow would describe it as an " endotheliomatous growth," and Roger Williams classifies it as a " quasi - malignant pseudo-plasm." In his original communication in 1903, Jensen describes how the tumours which develop after the subcutaneous inoculation of a portion of the growth into mice were derived solely from the epithelial cells introduced. The tumours were created, therefore, by the cells introduced grafting on to the tissues of the new host. Jensen's tumour has now heen propagated from generation to generation for five years, and it still retains its original characteristics of an adeno-carcinoma. The origin of the connective-tissue stroma of the tumour has been investigated by various workers. There is no absolute unanimity upon its source of origin. Bashford describes it as l)eing formed from the tissues of the host. In his opinion, the stroma introduced under- goes degeneration, and is entirely replaced by supporting structures from the tissues into which it is introduced. Thus, although the epithelial cells of the tumour may l)e looked upon as the direct descendants of the tumour discovered originally in Copenhagen, the cells of the stroma are renewed with each succeeding generation, and arise from the tissues of the animal into which the cancer has been grafted. Michaelis and Apolant were the first to observe in some animals the occurrence of spontaneous recovery after inoculation, a fact that was independently noted l^y Gaylord and Clowes, who found that in quite a large per- centage of cases the tumoui's which formed after inoculation underwent gradual resorption and disappeared. The latter investigators also showed that mice in which spontaneous recovery had occurred could not be successfully reinocu- lated, and they claimed that serum ol)tained from the blood of such animals conferred a degree of immunity when injected into healthy mice, and furthermore, promoted resorption when introduced into animals with growing tumours. Their conclusion regarding the active immunity present in animals after spontaneous recovery has been confirmed by other investigators. With reference to their claim that they were able to get a passive immunity by the injection of an anti-cancerous serum, the same unanimity of opinion does not exist. One of the most important facts con- cerning cancer as it occurs in mice is that brought out by Ehrlich and Apolant. They have been able to demonstrate that in certain circumstances a carcinoma may develop into a sarcoma. It has already been mentioned how, after five years of passage through succeeding generations of mice, Jensen's tumour retained its original characteristics as a carcinoma. Its histological characters remained unaltered. Working with tumovirs similar in nature but mostly of a more virulent sti'ain, Ehrlich and Apolant found that a carcinoma might gradu- ally develop into a sarcoma. In three tumours of diflerent degrees of virulence, they found that, after breeding true for ten, fourteen, and sixty-eight transplantations respectively, their histological characteristics became altered, and gradually assumed the structure of a sarcoma. Ehrlich's explanation of this most remarkable phenomenon is that the injected cancer cells so stimulated the connective-tissue cells of the mouse that they developed into sai'comatous tissue. Ehrlich succeeded in conferring a high degree of immunity to mice against virulent strains of carcinoma by injecting into them the pulp of a tumour of low virulence; the absoi'ption of the tissue fragments producing active immunity, which persisted for a long time. This immunity was obtained in a couple of weeks, and lasted for months in from 66 per cent, to 94 per cent, of all the animals experimented upon. He also found that when a virulent mouse-carcinoma was injected into the rat a tumour grew and then gradually underwent resorption and disappeared. These animals were thereafter found to be immune on subsequent inoculation. He also demonstrated another and most interesting fact: he found that the growing tumour in the I'at could not be I'einoculated into other I'ats, although it could be reinoculated with ease into mice. His explanation of this state of affairs is that there is present in the portion of tumour in- oculated a substance necessary for its growth, and that the tumour ceases growing in the rat when this is exhausted, because the tissues of the rat do not possess this substance, and the tumour must in consequence of necessity remain sterile for all other rats. When it is reimplanted into a mouse it can replenish from it its stock of this substance, as such is nor- mally present in that animal. This immunity Ehrlich describes as "atreptic." The problem of immunity to cancer in mice has been studied in another aspect by Schone. His researches were rmdertaken to endeavour to obtain an immunising effect with other tissues than tumour substance. He used mouse embryo, mouse liver and testis; embryo of chick and human carcinoma. He injected an emulsion of these organs into a healthy mouse, repeating the injection for from four to eight times, over a period varying from fifty to eighty days, and then inoculated the animal with mouse car- cinoma. He found that an immunity against epithelial mouse tumour can be obtained by the repeated injection of pulp derived from