325 RONTGEN RAYS AND RADIUM of lead screens, and by a due regard to dosage. There is no specific treatment for the lesions; red light, blue light, high frequency currents, and, latterly, radium, have been tried. The earlier workers, ignorant of the potency of the radiations, have suffered, but with proper care these unfortunate results ought to become things of the past. Dosage of X-rays.—Sequeira points out that after the application of the rays to an area of skin there is a latent period before reaction occurs. An evanescent erythema, probably due to actinic rays developed in the tube, appears a few hours after exposure. The true X-ray reaction follows this, in a week or more. Kien- bock's classification of the degree of the reaction is useful:— First degree : Latent period three weeks ; no visible inflammation ; temporary shedding of hair ; diminution of lupus nodules. Second degree : Latent period of two weeks : swelling and redness of the skin lasting one or two weeks ; shedding of hair. Third degree : Latency of ten days ; redness, vesication, superficial erosion and exudation; the parts are restored to their natural condition in from three to four weeks. Fourth degree: Latent period of a week or less ; necrosis with ulceration, healing some- times after six weeks or longer. In all conditions except the first, there may be telangiectases in the scar. They are almost inevitable after an inflammation of the third degree. Such telangiectases may not appear for six to eighteen months after the exposure. The output of X-rays from a tube can be estimated by Holzknecht's chromo-radiometer tf4 Sabouraud's pastilles. In the former a capsule containing the reagent is placed near the part under treatment, and as it changes colour under the influence of the rays it is com- pared with a graduated colour scale which reads from 3 to 24 " Holzknecht units." Sabouraud's pastilles are more generally used. They consist of little discs of barium platinocyanide in an emulsion of collodion and acetate of starch, and with them a standard tint is supplied. The pastille is placed midway between the anode and the skin. In treating ringworm the standard " B " tint cannot be exceeded without causing erythema. It is equal to 5 Holzknecht units. X-ray 7'herapeutics.—Among the diseases in which the rays are most successfully employed are rodent ulcer, lupus, ringworm, mycosis fungoides, and other skin aff"ections, in operable sarcoma, and leuksemia. Further information will be found under the various rubrics. X-ray Diagnosis.—In addition to the diag- nosis of diseases and injuries of the bowels and diseases of the thorax, as described in the Encyclopedia and Dictionary of Medicine (Vol. X. p. 571), the position of the abdominal vis- cera can now be made out by the X-rays. As air-containing organs like the stomach and intestines cast no shadow, it is necessary to introduce into them some substance which will do so, and for this purpose bismuth carbonate or subnitrate is generally employed. In some cases a flexible tube filled with bismuth or mercury has been introduced—e.g. into the rectum or oesophagus—and information ob- tained from skiagrams taken with it in situ. Lilienthal, however, states that it is not possible to introduce a sound into the colon. Cannon adopted the bismuth method in his work on the movements of the stomach {see Digestion). For X-ray examination of the stomach Rieder's bismuth meal may be used. It consists of about half a pint of thick soup— potato puree—containing an ounce and a half of bismuth subnitrate. Instead of this a simple emulsion of bismuth in mucilage may be used. If the colon is to be examined the bismuth is given as a high enema—300 to 400 c.c. oil with 40 to 50 grms. of liismuth. Schule's radiograms prove that in many cases the whole colon up to the ileo-ceecal valve can be demonstrated in this way. It is obvious that this method of mapping out the internal organs may at times prove useful—e.g. in cases of dilatation of the stomach, enteroptosis, diverticulum of the oesophagus, etc. Hemmeter, of Baltimore, has suggested that it may be utilised in the diag- nosis of gastric ulcer. Bismuth tends to adhere to the surface of ulcers after it has left the intact mucous membrane. Hemmeter gives to the patient a heaped teaspoonful of bismuth in a glass of water, and examines by the rays three or four hours later, by which time the bismuth will have left the stomach, except for such a part as clings to the surface of an ulcer and casts a circular shadow. When large doses of subnitrate of bismuth are used as described above, it is advisable to wash out the stomach and remove as much of the bismuth as possible as soon as the desii'ed end is attained. The reason for this is that from time to time cases of bismuth poisoning have been recorded, particularly in young infants. Apparently the nitric ion is respon- sible for the action ; in the intestine it is converted into a nitrous ion, and leads to methsemoglobinsemia. Lewin has recently re- counted a number of other untoward symp- toms—gingivitis, albuminuria, etc., after the administration of these large doses of bismuth. He regards the other salts as just as toxic as the subnitrate, and advises that bismuth should be replaced in X-ray work by ferric oxide. Voelker and Lichtenberg describe a method for skiagraphy of the kidneys based on the same principle. A ureteral catheter is passed up to the pelvis of the kidney, and a 5 per