208 INFANTILE ATROPHY simultaneous increase in the amount of calcium phosphate combining with fat to form a cal- cium soap. The importance of relative acidosis in chronic disturbances of nutrition in infants lies in the loss of alkali. For the growth and health of the child's organism the retention of alkali is as important as the retention of nitro- gen, phosphorus, or other mineral substances. If it is withheld or a loss takes place, the condition of the body can neither improve nor remain normal. Under these circum- stances, owing to the endeavour of the body to keep its relative composition unchanged, failure of increase in weight, or loss of tissue substance occurs ; and since growth in height can take place even when the body weight is not increasing, or is actually decreasing, eventvially the case presents the clinical features of an atrophy which is alimentary in origin." (Czerny and Steinitz.) (Compare also Herter's work on Infantilism, infra.) LITERATURE.—Czekny and Keller, Z)cs Kindes Ernahrung, Erndhrungs-storuugen, und Erndhrungs- therapiff (Leipzig), 1906-1909, passim.—Czerny and Steinitz, Art. "Metabolism in Diseases of Children," in Metabolism and Practical Medicine, by Carl van Noorden, vol. iii. p. 833 (London), 1907. The Thymus and Thyroid Glands in Marasmus.—The thymus gland is atrophied in cases of marasmus, but there is no evidence that marasmus is due to interference with the function of the organ. Stokes regards the condition of thymus merely as an index of the general nutrition ; the state of nutrition of an infant may be estimated by a mici'oscopic examination of the thymus at autopsy. No benefit is obtained by treating marasmus with thymus. Maclennan found that after extirpa- tion of the thymus animals were more vigorous and voracious than the conti'ols, and put on weight more quickly. Others have seen no action on growth from removal of the organ. No experimenter has ever stated that thymec- tomy causes atrophy. Some important observations by J. W. Simpson must be referred to, because they mark a definite advance in the treatment of marasmus. In examining the thj'roid in ten cases of marasmus, he found that many of the vesicles were devoid of colloid, that some showed cell-proliferation, and that the fibrous tissue, particularly the intra-vesicular fibrous tissue, was increased. This led him to try the effect of treating marasmus with thyroid, and in some instances the results were most striking. The drug was given in doses of i-l gr. of B. & W. tabloids thrice daily. No other change in the treatment was made. Thyroid treatment should be tried in all cases of marasmus; sometimes it acts remarkably well, in others it fails absolutely, but as the remedy is harmless, and often brilliantly suc- cessful, it ought certainly to be administered to all atrophic babies. LITERATURE.—Stokes, Rdheah, and Rohrer, Amer. Journ. Med. ScL, Jan. 1903.—Maclennan, Glasgow Med. Journ., Aug. 1908.—Ruhrah, Brit. Med. Journ., ■^9th Aug. 1903.—J. W. Simpson, Scott. Med. and Surg. Journ., Dec. 1906. Infantilism. — The term infantilism should be restricted to a group of cases which have as their common and most important feature a failure of the primary and secondary sexual characters to appear at their proper time. Dr. John Thomson, who emphasises this point, divides cases of infantilism into three groups :—(1) Idiopathic infantilism. (2) Cachectic infantilism. (3) Infantilism due to gross lesion or defect of some important internal organ. The condition is therefore merely a symptom, or symptom-complex, which may be due to more than one cause. It is usually associated with stunted growth, but not necessarily so. The essential characteristic is the persistence of sexual immaturity, and this may go along with normal growth, or even giantism, as well as with dwarfing. A case of combined giantism, acromegaly and infantilism has been reported by Launois and Pierre Roy. Their patient was a giant, the primarjr and secondary sexual characters were undeveloped, the epiphyseal cartilages were persistent, and there was enlargement of the lower jaw. Pagniez states that a case of this kind may pass through three stages: infantilism, with persistence of the epiphyseal cartilages; rapid growth, producing a giant; cessation of growth fusion of the epiphyses, and the development of the signs of acromegaly. Conversely, dwarfs are not necessarily infantile; many of them— e.g. cases of sexual ateleiosis (Hastings Guilford), of which General Tom Thumb was an instance—show normal sexual development. (1) Idiopathic infantilism. This group of cases comprises what is known as the Type Lorain (after the French physician who first drew attention to them) or anangioplastic infantilism, because they are supposed to be clue to vascular hyperplasia. Patients of the type Lorain are small in stature, but have to some extent lost their childish proportions. They have the frames of adults in miniature, or, perhaps more correctly, the frames of miniature adolescents. The bones are small and slender ; the genital organs are undeveloped, and the mental powers childish. (2) Cachectic infantilism, The principal diseases which give rise to cachectic infantilism are Pott's curvature of the spine, tuberculosis, syphilis, biliary cirrhosis, and cardiac affections. Some (e.g. Gilbert and Rathery) would class these cases along with the preceding. It is, of course, a matter of daily observation that children with heart disease, hunchbacks, and