2 ABDOMINAL SECTION in most instances, and especially in nervous Avomen and men whose dread of operation may cause them real suffering if unduly prolonged ; under these circumstances the patient may be seen one day and operated upon the next, but as a rule forty-eight hours' preparation is advis- able. The heart and lungs ought to be carefully examined, for the presence of cardiac or pul- monary lesions will modify to some extent the after-treatment and the pi'ognosis, and will influence the choice of the anaesthetic. Valvular heart lesions, if unaccompanied by the symptoms and signs of want of compensation (cough, dyspnoea, oedema), need not increase the dangers of a celiotomy ; but the signs of cardiac dilata- tion, with indications of fatty degeneration of the organ, will give the operator concern. Acute bronchitis or pneumonia call for a postponement of all operations save those of extreme urgency, and even the more chronic inflammatory maladies indicate waiting till a quiescent state has been reached ; in both circumstances chloroform is to be preferred to ether on account of the irritating effect which the latter has on the bronchial and pulmonary mucous membrane. Careful examina- tion of the blood before operation is not yet widely employed, but its value in some cases is very great, and it is likely to be more and more utilised ; it will include the counting of the red and white cells, the estimation of the hemoglobin percentage, and it may include the discovery of the rapidity of coagulation, and the detection of bacteria. Anaemia will always increase the risks of operation, and if well marked will call for preparatory medicinal and dietetic treatment; but there are instances, e.g. bleeding uterine fibroids, where the indication for operation is also the immediate cause of the anaemia, and in them it may be necessary to operate at once and take the risks, although sometimes local treatment of the hajmorrhages may be temporarily successful, and then, of course, some delay may be allowed for this purpose. If the haemoglobin percentage fall below 40 per cent., and certainly if it is below 30 per cent., operation should be delayed till it can be raised, although even under these circum- stances the general condition of the patient will have to be taken into account. Leucocytosis is of value in the diagnosis of many intra-abdominal morbid states {e.g. abscess, especially if there be also a positive iodine reaction), and its presence may be an encouragement to operate in cases, for instance, of peritonitis, whereas the existence of the opposite state (leucopenia) would point to a condition so grave as to be almost hopeless. The rapidity of coagulation of the blood need not often be tested before operation, but if there exist the suspicion of haemophilia, or if there be purpuric signs, it ought to be carried out, and surgical interference delayed till it can be increased. The detection of bacteria in the blood {e.g. streptococci, staphy- lococci, etc.) is of more value from the diagnostic standpoint than for the purpose of deciding the advisability of operating or not. The examina- tion of the kidneys (by testing the urine) should never be omitted before surgical procedures in the abdomen, and some operators demand that this shall be done on two or more separate occasions, foi' the presence of nephritis or of diabetes is a very serious complication. The total amount of the urine with its specific gravity should be ascertained, and the presence or absence of albumen, sugar, casts, blood, pus, and sediment; the percentage of urea is important in some cases, and the presence of indican points to toxic absorption from the bowel. It goes without saying that if the operation be on the kidney the examination should be very thorough, and the surgeon should make certain that the other kidney is present and is functionally active. The presence of diabetes or of nephritis is not necessarily a contra-indication to operation, but in the former one has to bear in mind the risk of diabetic coma following upon the shock of the surgical procedure, and in the case of the latter there ought to be more prolonged and thorough pre-operative preparation, and chilling during operation should be specially guarded against. In some instances the morbid state of the kidney may be due to the state for which the operation is being perfoi'med {e.g. hyster- ectomy for uterine fibroids which press on the kidneys or ui'eters); then the surgeon's knife will remove the cause of the renal disease. The preparation of the operation area is con- sidered elsewhere {vide Surgery, Asepsis); but with regard to abdominal section in par- ticular, the iodine method has introduced a welcome simplification in technique, for it is rapid and easy, and it shows to the eye the extent of the sterilised area, it obviates active scrubbing and forcible manipulation in such cases as suspected rupture of the intestine or of an ectopic pregnancy, and it need not be done long before the operation. The iodine method has the disadvantage of setting up inflammatory reaction in the skin of some specially predisposed patients, but this is almost the only objection that can be made to it. The umbilical scar is a great source of danger in laparotomy, and ought to be very thoroughly treated before as well as at the time of opera- tion. Another very important part of the pre- paratory treatment of an abdominal section patient is the thorough empti/ing of the bowel and the regulation of the diet. So many abdominal disorders are accompanied by obstinate constipation that it is essential to clear out the alimentary canal. Castor-oil, a large dose, should be given on the day before, so that it shall act thoroughly twelve hours before the time fixed for the operation, and on