4 ABDOMINAL SECTION with two pairs of catch forceps so as to isolate and elevate it from the underlying bowel or tumour, the raised fold is then to be carefully cut through. As soon as a small opening is made the abdominal contents will fall back from it, and the operator will now introduce two fingers into the cavity and enlarge the peritoneal incision to the same length as that of the skin one, using a pair of probe-pointed scissors or a bistoury, guided and protected by his two fingers introduced first towards the upper and then towards the lower end of the incision. The catch forceps should be left attached to the edges of the peritoneum, as that membrane may retract; and some surgeons take the precaution, at the end of the operation, of excising the small pieces of the peritoneum which have been caught in the bite of the forceps, believing that their vitality is danger- ously lessened. In some cases there is real difficulty in incising the peritoneum without wounding the underlying structures ; these are usually instances of adhesions between the intestines or other organ or tumour and the abdominal wall, or of upward displacement of the bladder, but the knowledge of the possibility of such difficulties is the surgeon's best safe- guard. It is a good rule before cutting through a piece of membrane regarded as peritoneum to lift it up and roll it between the finger and thumb in order to demonstrate its freedom from underlying structures. In cases of wide ad- hesion of an ovarian cyst to the abdominal wall the operator may, notwithstanding all his pre- cautions, find himself in the tumour cavity before he expects, and this is very likely to occur with retroperitoneal growths in which the peritoneum of the posterior abdominal wall has been pushed forward into apposition with that of the anterior wall; careful exploration with the hand introduced into the cavity will reveal the state of matters. But the median vertical incision is not always that of choice. In order to avoid the presence of an evident scar on the skin of the abdomen Kiisiner introduced the transverse incision which is known by his name. This is a semilunar incision (with its concavity looking upwards) made through the skin and subcutaneous fat above the symphysis pubis. The upper flap is dissected and turned upwards, and then the aponeurosis, the rectus muscle and sheath, and the peritoneum are incised vertically in the usual way. It is claimed as the chief advantage of this incision that the scar is hidden by the natural folds of the skin (in fat individuals at least there is a fold just above the symphysis) and by the growth of the pubic hair, but it gives less room for manipulation, and is more prone to infection (from its proximity to the genital organs and the adjoining skin) than the vertical one. It is doubtful whether its advantages (Avhich are purely cosmetic) outweigh these disadvantages, and it is questionable whether the Pfannenstiel incision is much better. The last-named inci- sion is made at a higher level in the anterior abdominal wall than the Kiistner, and runs, more directly transverse from side to side between the outer borders of the recti and divides the skin, fat, and aponeurosis; the remaining structures are cut through vertically. There possibly is less risk of resulting ventral hernia after the Pfannenstiel incision, but it is not suitable in the case of fibroid tumours of the uterus and other solid growths. In Macken- rodi's incision, also a transverse (semilunar) one, none of the tissues of the abdominal wall is. divided vertically ; of course the after-suturing of the divided muscles and peritoneum must be very carefully done if hernia is not to result; certainly it gives plenty of room for manipula- tion, and has been, in consequence, specially recommended in the radical operation for cancer of the uterus. Perhaps one is not justified in finally deciding in favour of the median vertical as against the transverse incision, or vice versa ; but whilst transverse incisions give more room for exploration and treatment, especially of pelvic disorders, whilst they give, according to May lard {Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1907, pp. 895- 901) and others, more secure cicatrices, the vertical ones involve the division of fewer blood- vessels and can be closed more easily and rapidly (by through-and-through sutures if time presses). In addition to what has been already said about the incision it may be pointed out that for special operations special incisions have been recommended. Thus, for removal of the appen- dix vermiformis a lateral incision is in vogue. This may be made in the linea semilunaris at or rather just within the outer border of the right rectus muscle and just below the level of the umbilicus ; the centre of this incision will be a line joining the umbilicus and the right anterior superior iliac spine. If sutured in layers. Noble (Kelly and Noble's Gynecology, i. pp. 524- 526) claims that the resulting cicatrix is strong and does not develop a hernia. M'Burney's incision is a little further out and a little lower down than the above ; it is made parallel to the fibres of the external oblique muscle, which are split and not cut, as are also the fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis ; but the line of separation of the internal oblique and the transversalis, and of the incision in its fascia, and the peritoneum, is almost at right angles to. the incision in the skin and external oblique, i.e. it is nearly transverse. This incision is. about 1 inch internal to the right anterior superior iliac spine, and is usually about 4 inches in length ; it also gives a firm cicatrix. For disease of the gall-bladder a vertical incision in the right linea semilunaris or in the sub- stance of the rectus muscle is usually preferred ; it is about 3 inches in length, and the guide to«.