ANESTHESIA AND ANESTHETICS 29 of the chloroform. He was unable to account otherwise for the fatalities than by supposing that the deaths were due to auto-intoxication, that the fatty degeneration of the liver existed before the operation, that chloroform and opera- tion shock combined aggravated the functional disturbance already present, and thus loaded the system with toxic alkaloids, which the kidneys in certain cases wei'e unable to elimi- nate. Guthrie, therefore, advised that in no case should chloroform be given to a patient suffering from fatty liver, and, as it is impos- sible, from physical signs and symptoms, to do more than surmise the existence of the same, we must rely on signs of functional inactivity of the liver as indicated by the excess of alka- loidal substances present in the urine. The precise nature of such alkaloidal substances, and the best method of detecting them, must be left for further investigation. Little has been added to the clinical picture as described by Guthrie. It is now known that the disease is virtually associated con- stantly with the presence of acetone in the urine, and cases have been observed where the onset has been more gradual and the progress slower. All observers confirm the constancy with which the characteristic " beef- tea" vomiting occurs. Stiles and M'Donald lay special emphasis on this, and suggest that the persistent chloroform sickness present after opei'ation in certain cases may be a minor manifestation of the same condition. "Every surgeon who has closely watched patients after opei'ations in cases of acute appendicitis, and occasionally after operations performed during the quiescent period, must have observed the critical condition in which he occasionally finds his patient about forty-eight hours or so after the operation. The chloroform sickness has persisted, the vomited matter is of the dark hsemorrhagic type already referred to, the patient has become rapidly emaciated, the pulse is small, rapid, and often irregular. There is sleeplessness, often extreme restless- ness, and the patient is threatened with death from collapse. The urine contains a trace of albumen. There is no complication indicated with the wound, no pain, no increase of ten- derness, and no distension. Nevertheless the patient is in a very critical condition, and the surgeon fears either general toxaemia or the commencement of a spreading peritonitis. Should no improvement set in, the surgeon will probably deem it necessary to open up the wound and investigate the deeper parts. He may find nothing wrong at the site of operation, and after adopting certain thera- peutic measures he is relieved to find that, during the next twenty-four hours, the patient's condition may have improved to such an extent as to call for no further anxiety. What is the exact cause of the symptoms in these cases 1 Are we dealing, though in a milder degree, with the same acute fatty degeneration changes that we can demonstrate as having occurred in the fatal cases, and if so, what share has the chloroform taken in bringing them about ?" If it can be proved that in infective conditions, such as that above referred to, chloroform may so supplement the harmful action of the bac- terial toxine as to be responsible for death, the question of substituting some other ana3s- thetic is obviously indicated. Beesly, when resident surgeon under Mr. Stiles, carried out certain most valuable observations on post- anajsthetic acetonuria. He confirmed the occurrence of the presence of acetone in many different diseases. A certain degree of acid intoxication occurs after every surgical operation in which a general anaesthetic is ad- ministered. With chloroform, varying degrees of poisoning are met with, from the slightest manifestation to the case of death from delayed ansesthetic poisoning. Acetone may be looked upon as being virtually constantly present in cases where sepsis has occurred; the adminis- tration of an ansesthetic may alter the normal elimination of this, and aggravate the clinical symptoms of intoxication. When ether was substituted for chloroform as the anaesthetic in cases where acute suppuration was present, the result of the change was claimed to prove that the previous mortality had, to a certain extent, been dependent upon the use of chloro- form. Out of nineteen cases of acute appendi- citis operated on under chloroform, fourteen died. Out of twenty-four cases operated on under ether, only two died. Experimental evidence of the damage done by chloroform when administered as a general anaesthetic was first clearly demonstrated by Ungar and Junkers in 1883. They were the first to demonstrate that fatty degeneration can be produced by chloroform when adminis- tered by inhalation. Since then numerous other investigators have confirmed this observa- tion. It has been found impossible, however, to reproduce with any degree of constancy the same clinical features and pathological appearances with which delayed chloroform poisoning in man is associated. The reason of this, according to Stiles and M'Donald, is to be found in the fact that the fundamental cause of the death lies in a personal idiosyn- crasy to the drug which is possessed by the patient. Guthrie, in his most recent article, emphasises the fact that the symptoms of so- called delayed poisoning by chloroform, ether, or ethyl chloride are those of acute fatty acid intoxication. The fatty acids which produce symptoms, viz. B. oxybutyric and diacetic acid, which are the poisonous precursors of acetone, are themselves the result of insufficient oxidation or imperfect metabolism of fat. Fat in excess must be present somewhere, in order