CANCER 92 sarcomata, surgeons now are generally inclined to adopt a more conservative line of treatment than formerly. Few patients survive high amputation without recurrence or metastasis for more than a year or two. Balocock and Pfahler {Surgery, Gynecology, and Obstetrics, Feb. 1908) quote BuUin's statistics of sixty-eight cases of amputations for peiiosteal sarcoma of the femur in which only one patient was known to have survived the operation for three years. Amputation should only be performed when the function of the limb is destroyed, otherwise the tumour should be excised by sul^capsular enucleation and a thorough course of X-rays be given. They also advise Coley's fluid {v. supra) and painting the cavity after enucleation with a solution of pyoktanin, 5, phenol, 1, alcohol, 20, and water to 100. In the more benign sarcomata—myeloid sarcomata, fibi'oid sarcomata—the disease can in some cases be eradicated by enucleation or resection. See a resume by A. Miles, Edin. Med. Journ., xxiii. p. 461, 1908. Sarcoma and Carcinoma, X-Ray Treat- ment OF.—Coley draws the following con- clusions as to the final results in this method of treatment {AnnaJs of Surgery, Aug. 1905) ;— 1. The X-rays exert a powerful influence on cancer cells of all varieties, especially in cases of cutaneous cancer. 2. In some cases, chiefly in superficial epithelioma, the entire tumour may disappear, probaljly through fatty degen- eration and aljsorption of its cells. 3. In a small number of cases of deep-seated tumours, chiefly cancel' of the breast and glandular sar- coma, tumours have disappeared under long treatment by the X-ray. In nearly eveiy case, however, that has been carefully ti'aced to a final result there has been a local or general return of the disease within two years. 4. In view of this practically constant tendency to early recurrence, fiuthermore, in the absence of any reported cases remaining well beyond three years, the method should never be used except in inoperable cases, or as a prophylactic after operation—a possil)le though not proven means of avoiding recurrence. 5. The use of X-rays as a pre-operation measure in other than cut- aneous cancer is contra-indicated, because (1) the rays have not been proved to be curative; there is risk of extension of the disease, or metastasis, during the j^eriod required for a ti'ial of the X-ray. Carbon Dioxide Snow.—^See Lupus Erythematosus {Treatment liy Freezing); N.evi {I'reatment). Carcinoma Cutis,—In the treatment of carcinoma of the skin, free removal with a wide margin of healthy tissue is still the method of choice where the disease is on a covered part; but not infrequently the patient objects to the use of the knife, and some other method is advisable. Caustics are preferable to the knife in some cases. There is no doubt that the zone of reaction around a cauterised area is beneficial, blocking up the lymphatics and tending to prevent a spread of the disease; whereas when the knife is used the lymphatics are cut across and left exposed to infection by any traces of the growth which may be left behind. Arsenious acid paste (50 per cent.), which is the one usually used, is a good caustic, but exceedingly painful. A less painful appli- cation is that of Wallace Brown, who uses two pastes, the one consisting of a saturated solution of caustic potash with sufficient hydrastis cana- densis to produce a thick paste, and the other of a similar paste with a saturated solution of zinc chloride. These two pastes are applied for one to five hours according to the size of the growth to be destroyed, the caustic soda on one day and the zinc chloride on the next. After one application of each a slough is pro- duced. A dressing of some soothing powder is applied till the slough separates, and if any disease is left the pastes are reapplied as before to the diseased area. These methods by caustics are especially useful in carcinomata arising in old scars and in lupus carcinoma. In such cases the knife cannot readily be used, as there would be difficulty in getting the edges of the scar tissue together, and therefore caustics are to be preferred. There is no great risk of causing metastasis of the disease by the irri- tation of caustics in such cases, as the scar is not lich in lymphatics, and local spread does not readily occur. We are now in a position to state fairly accurately in which cases X-rays will be found beneficial in skin cancers. All ai'e agreed that X-i'ays are of much less value in the rapidly- growing malignant epitheliomata than in the more slowly - growing rodent - ulcers. Some prefer to give frequent small doses of the rays, others large doses at longer intervals, but it does not matter which method is used so long as sufficient rays are given, and the case is a suitable one for X-ray treatment. The X-ray method is the one to be preferred when the patient refuses operation, or the cosmetic result is important, and where there is no deep in- fection. All cutaneous cancers can be cured by X-rays except those of large extent and rapid growth. Large carcinomata are best treated hj removal of the greater part of the growth by the knife or caustics, and then X-rays subsequently. It has been shown by Darier that X-rays do not produce any effect on the epithelial tissue deeper than 1 cm. from the surface. Therefore, whenever possible, as much of the growth as possible should first l)e removed, and then X-rays applied to destroy any traces which may be left. For rodent ulcers which are still under the size of a five