330 SALEN Sa,len.—Salen is a mixture of methyl and ethylglycolic esters, forming an odourless liquid, soluble in ether, alcohol, castor oil, and a mixture of chloroform and olive oil ; the 33-3 per cent, ointment is named salenal. Salenal.—-S'ee Salen. "Salies Cure."—The treatment of utero-ovarian complaints by a course of the baths at Salies de Bearn ; the spring is called the " uterine spring," and the water contains sodium chloride, bromides, and iodides. For reports of cases of menstrual disorders, uterine fibroids, etc., so treated, see David, CUnique (Paris), V. p. 107, 1910. Salifbrmin.—A salicylate of urotropin, acting as a urinary antiseptic, given in doses of 8 to 30 grains ; it is a bitter, soluble, crystal- line body. See Fortescue-Brickdale, Neimr Remedies, p. 98, 1910. Sail menthol.—The ether of salicylic acid with menthol, constituting an oily yellow liquid soluble in alcohols and oils; recom- mended in acute rheumatism in 4 grain doses (in capsules) or externally as an ointment (samoV). See Fortescue-Brickdale, Newer Remedies, p. 249, 1910. Sal mine.—A basic amino-acid (simple protein) obtained from fish sperm. SalOCreol.—A compound of salicylic acid and creosote, forming a brown, oily fluid, soluble in alcohol; it is used externally in acute rheumatism. Salomon's Test.—A test for carcinoma of the stomach founded on the fact that albumin is secreted from the carcinoma itself, and so finds its way into the gastric contents ; so for 24 hours nothing but protein-free diet is given, then the stomach is washed out with salt solu- tion, and then some hours later the gastric contents are tested for albumin. See Webster, Diagnostic Methods, p. 89, 1909. Salophenin.—A tasteless and odour- less crystalline substance (salicyl phenetidin or acetyl-para-amido-salol), also known as salo- fhen; it is recommended as an analgesic and anti-rheumatic, in doses of 10-15 grains (for an adult); it is nearly insoluble in water, but readily soluble in alcohol and ether; it is said to be safer than salol. Saloquinine.—The salicylic acid ester of quinine, in the form of colourless, insoluble crystals. See Fortescue-Brickdale, Neiver Re- medies, p. 209, 1910. Salt-free Diet. — See Nephritis, Treatment of {Chloride-free Diet). Sal us Water.—A slightly saline and alkaline, effervescent mineral water, obtained from Larvik Spa, on the Norwegian coast, recommended as a table beverage, and in cases of urinary disorders, gout, rheumatism, etc. See Lancet, ii. for 1910, p. 35. Salzer'S Test Meal.—Two meals are- given with an interval of four hours; the stomach contents removed one hour after the second meal ought to show no remains of the first meal, if the gastric digestion and motility are normal; the first meal consists of cold roast meat, milk, rice, and a soft-boiled egg, and the second of stale wheat bread and water. See Webster, Diagnostic Methods, p. 51, 1909. Samol.—See Saumenthol. Sand-Baths.—Baths of sea sand, hot or cold, moist or dry, best taken on the sea- shore itself, with the sand heated by the direct rays of the sun ; they are believed to act beneficially by drawing blood to the skin and so relieving internal congestion, and also bj' lead- ing to the absorption through the skin of the alkaline iodides and bromides of the sea-water with which the sand is impregnated ; the head should be shaded during the taking of the bath, and the face occasionally bathed in water;. sand-baths are recommended in rheumatism, gout, lead, and morphine poisoning, neurasthenia,, hysteria, spinal curvature, etc. (G. Boutin, Gaz. hebd. d. sc. med. de Bordeaux, xxx.. pp. 145-148, 1909). Sandfly Fever. — See Phlebotomus Fever. Sanitas Preparations.—A series of preparations, including sanitas-bactox, sani- tas-okol, and sanitas disinfecting fluid; their chemical and physical characters and bacteri- cidal powers are reported on in an article on the standardisation of disinfectants {Lancet, ii. for 1909, pp. 1527-1529). Santyl. — The salicylic acid ester of santalol, almost tasteless, and odourless; re- commended in gonorrhosal affections. Sarcosporidia.—*S'ee Protozoa. Satchel, Obstetric—-S'ee Labour, Management of. "Sauerin."—The trade name for what is described as " a pure active culture of the