PATHOLOGY 41 ANTENATAL lating which seems to show that morbid agents are the same at all periods of life, antenatal as well as postnatal, and that the dilferences in the pathological results produced at the different periods are due rather to the environment of the organism and to the special characters of its life than to any difference in the pathological causes. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of antenatal states after birth calls for no special comment; its success or failure will depend upon the know- ledge or the ignorance of the practitioner ; and its performance requires no further skill than that which is necessary for the distinction and recognition of ordinary postnatal, medical, and surgical morbid conditions. But the difficulties of diagnosing pathological states while the subject of them is still in utero are many and serious, and the art of antenatal diagnosis has as yet made very little progress. Ballantyne gives a chapter of his book {Manual of Antenatal Fathology, i. pp. 430-450) to this subject; in it he claims that a careful scrutiny of the history of the parents before and about the time of conception, and, more particularly, of the mother during the months of pregnancy which have already elapsed, will often enable the medical man to form a strong suspicion that the unborn infant will be diseased or malformed. The physical examination of the abdomen in the later months of gestation will sometimes be successful in detecting gross enlargement of one or moi'e parts of the foetus, and it may, in the hands of an expert, yield further informa- tion. The use of cephalometers and the employ- ment of the Rontgen rays may in time serve as important adjuvants in the acquisition of know- ledge regarding the state of health or disease of the unborn infant. It has to be borne in mind that hydramnios frequently means some anomaly or abnormality of the foetus; and, since the diagnosis of hydramnios can usually be easily made, its presence ought to make the obstetrician suspect a foetal morbid state. Foetal heart murmurs have been detected by ausculta- tion during the later months of pi'Cgnaiicy, and there are signs and symptoms of foetal death which make it possible to diagnose this ante- natal catasti'ophe befoi'e the child is expelled. If the attention of the medical man were more systematically turned to the subject of ante- natal diagnosis, there would doubtless be a rapid increase in his knowledge of the matter and in his skill in applying it. Meantime the difficulty is to get the patient to allow, and the obstetrician to make, a I'outine examination during pregnancy ; many pregnant patients are never examined even with a view to determining the relative size of the mother's pelvis and of the foetal head until the incidence of labour pains. Treatment. — Antenatal treatment waits upon antenatal diagnosis, and in the absence of exact methods in the latter sphere of practice the former is arrested nearly altogether. What little treatment is possible is largely empiric, e.g. the giving of chlorate of potash to the mother in cases of recurrent abortion or repeated foetal death ; but some definiteness has been introduced into the subject by the topical administration of mercury when the mother is syphilitic. There has indeed been an advance in the treatment of antenatal morbid states within the past ten or twelve years, but it has been in the sphere of reparative surgery applied after the birth of the infant; partially successful attempts have, for instance, been made to separate united twins, and some of the grave malformations of the cranium and its contents have been attacked with at least a cosmetic advantage. Extrover- sion of the bladder, absence of bones of the leg or arm, and exomphalos have been dealt with in new ways which augur greater success than in the past. We are still, however, standing on the threshold of preventive medicine as applied to antenatal morbid states. Antiarachnolysin. — An antivenin acting against the poison of the spider (Epeira diadema). Antigen.—A term used in bacteriology and immunity to signify any body against which, after it has been injected into the organism, an antibody is produced (Gr. avri, against, and ytyvo/xat, I am born). Antiketog'enous. See Acidosis {Therapeutics). Antilactase.—An enzyme capable of splitting up milk sugar. Antipepsin.—An enzyme capable of splitting pepsin. Antiphrynolysin. — An antivenin acting against the poison of the toad {Bom- binator hafo). Antisteapsin.—An enzyme capable of splitting fat. Antitryptic Index. See aho Cancer. —This " index," which is a means of ascertain- ing the immunisation response, depends on the following circumstances :—When a viscous solu- tion of casein is incubated with trypsin it is digested and loses its viscosity, and the rate of the loss may be measured with a viscosimeter (pipette and fine capillary tube); further, the rate of loss of viscosity is retarded by the addi- tion of a drop of blood serum, and the degree of retardation depends on the health of the patient (the blood of one who is suffering from cancer, tuberculosis, etc., retarding more markedly). Two blood serums (one normal and one pathological) can thus be compared, the rate at which the casein solution drips through the capillary tube giving the index i