BAUDON'S WINE 53 of pure muscat wine." For analysis see Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1909, p. 1309. Beckmann's Cryoscope. See Cryoscopy. Becterew's Reflex. See Reflexes. Bedroom Disease.—The name given by Mr. John Burns, M.P., to consumption (June 1909): it is " a house disease, almost it is a bed- room disease, and is preventable." See Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1909, p. 1428. Beebe's Serums. Disease. See Graves's Beecham'S Pills. — The analysis of this secret remedy, as given in the British Medical Journal (i. for 1909, p. 32), is aloes, 0-5 grain ; powdered ginger, 0-55 grain ; powdered soap, 0'18 grain—in one pill. " Bends." See Caisson Disease. Benzedin Test. See Digestive Functions, Tests for the. Benzoyl-Nastin. See Leprosy. Bezold's Disease, or Bezold's Mastoiditis. — Inflammation of the mastoid air cells, causing destruction of the apex of the mastoid process, and leading to suppuration in the neck. Records of cases will be found in the Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1909, p. 1747, and i. for 1910, p. 1110. Bier's Method of Treatment by Hyperaemia. Definition . Technique . Methods Uses Prophylactic Curative . 53 53 55 56 56 56 Passive Congestion. — Active Hi/percemia.— Bier's method of treatment by passive conges- tion is one which consists in augmenting the inflammatory reaction by interfering with the blood return from the site of disease. It is capable of application to a wide variety of ailments, such as those where acute or chronic inflammation is present. As it is based on the fundamental conception that the inflammatory reaction is in the main a beneficial process, it may also be applied to any case where it is desired to stimulate wound-healing. Thus, for example, it can be used Avhere delayed union after an osseous fracture is present. It is also found to be of great service as a prophylactic form of treatment in cases of recent lacerated wounds which have been contaminated at the time of the accident. It is necessary, in order to practise Bier's treatment, to possess a clear conception of the true significance of the in- flammatory process. For many years most pathologists have maintained that inflammation and repair were the manifestation of an identical process, which only varied in degree according to the severity of the irritant to which they were the response. It is only, however, since Bier's method of treatment has become so widely practised by surgeons that the majority of medical men have become converted to this view. This variation between the pathological and clinical opinion has been largely due to the confusion of cause and eff'ect; the pronounced inflammatory reaction called forth in response to an intense micro-organismal irritant being credited with the harmful eff"ects which the bacterial poison caused. Holding the view that the presence of inflammation was in it- self harmful to the organism, such remedies as the ice-bag were often used to carry out an anti-phlogistic method of treatment. When the cardinal phenomena of inflammation are examined and compared with those seen where repair is occurring, it will be observed that the two processes are essentially identical and only differ in degree. When repair takes place in a vascular organ, there is observed early a pro- nounced engorgement of blood-vessels round the wound. When inflammation is present, a similar hypersemia causes the classical rubor. In the same way, when all the local vascular and cellular phenomena are studied, they are found to correspond. The method of treatment by augmenting the inflammatory reaction for the cure of disease is of course not new. For long such means for inducing local hypersemia as the poultice and the blister have been used in surgical practice. Neither was the very technique adopted by Bier in the treatment of his cases a novel one when he introduced it, for just as carbolic acid was used to promote the healing of wounds long- before Lister enunciated the principles of anti- septic surgery, so were constricting fillets used to interfere with the return of blood fi'om a part in order to favour healing. What was new, however, was the fundamental conception underlying the practice, and on this account it will remain for ever as "Bier's treatment by hypersemia." Technique. — Where passive congestion is employed it can be carried out in one of two ways. A rubber bandage may be applied lightly on the cardiac side of the lesion, and by this means the retui-n of venous blood to the part will be interfered with and venous engorgement produced. On the other hand, cupping-glasses may be used, which by their suction engorge the vessels of the part to which they are applied. This latter method, which is a more recent modification of Biei''s method of treatment, was introduced by his assistant Klapp. Active hyperajmia or aiterial conges-