DIATHESIS 342 SPASMOPHILE mission of the diathesis from mother to child, and by the occurrence of several cases in a family. Finkelstein, endeavouring to ascertain Avhich constituent of milk was harmful, concluded that the whey must be blamed. It is most prob- able that the disease is in some way connected with faulty calcium metabolism. Here, again, there are two opposing theories : on the one hand Stoelzner asserts that it is a sort of calcium poisoning, while Guest, Sabbatani, and others believe that the tissues are suffering from calcium starvation. More recently at- tempts have been made to show that tetany, at least, is due to disturbance of parathyroid function by haemorrhage into the glands (Yanase, Esclierich), and MacCallum's work suggests that animals sufiering from tetany following parathyroidectomy are in a condition of calcium starvation. On the whole, the majority of observations point in the direction of there being deficit, rather than excess, of calcium in the tissues, and Stoelzner's theory has few supporters. See also Parathyroids. Treatment.—The first step is to correct any digestive disturbance which may he pre- sent, and for this purpose a dose of castor oil, followed by powders containing a grain of grey powder, half a grain of rhubarb, and a few grains of sodium bicarbonate may be given. Next, the diet requires attention. Breast milk is best, if it can be obtained. Failing this, the diet selected will depend on the previous feeding, and on the nutrition of the child. In obese, over-fed babies, which have habitually consumed excessive quantities of milk, the diet should be restricted for a day or two to a cereal decoction such as barley 01' rice water, and then limited to carbohydrates (Mellin's or Sav ory & Moore's food) for four or five days longer-. At the end of this time milk is cautiously added. The chief point is to avoid over-feeding. In ill-nourished children thejndication is to fatten the patient; if the diet has previously consisted of carbohydrate the indication is to fatten the child ; if his diet has contained an excess of carbohydrates this should be diminished, replaced by milk. Cod- liver oil should also be given. If the convul- sions are severe and recur frequently a sedative is required. Chloral (i.-ii. grs.) and antipyrin (gr. i.) are more useful than bromides. Phos- phorus and cod-liver oil (1:10,000) is extolled by Finkelstein. Cold douches are most useful in checking the tendency to convulsions. After the infant has had his bath one or two spongefuls of cold water are squeezed over the neck and spine, and then the body is quickly dried Avith a warm towel. Douching in this way is often very effectual in curing the manifestations of spasmophilia. The pi'Ognosis is not unfavourable ; most cases recover. It is worst in poorly-nourished infants, and in cases in which there is much laryngismus. Children suffering from the spasmophile diathesis have less resistance than healthy ones, and if by chance they contract pneumonia or bronchitis matters often go hardly with them. ' REFERENCES.—Finkelstein, Lehrbuch d. Sailg- lingshranhheiten (Berlin), 1905.—Thikmich, Pb'adndler, and ScHLOSSMAN, Handbwch d. Kinderheilk. (Leipzig), Bd. iv., 1906.—Stoklznee, Jahrhuch f. Kinderheilk., Bd. xiii., 1906.—Guest, ibid., Bd. xvi. (Vide also under Pabathykoids). S pas m o p h i I i a. — See Spasmophile Diathesis. Speng^ler's Method.—A method of sedimentation for sputum, especially when it is very thick and tenacious; equal parts of sputum and lukewarm water which has been alkalinised with sodium carbonate solution are mixed ; next, from 0-1 to 1 gram of pancreatin powder is added and the mixture shaken ; then from 0-2 to 1 gram of crystallised carbolic acid is added, and the mixture placed for a short time in the incubator at 37° C. ; finally, the supernatant fluid is poured off and the sedi- ment examined (for tubercle bacilli, etc.). See Webster, Diagnostic Methods, p. 21, 1909. SpermatOXi ns. — The cytotoxins which are developed in one animal when the spermatozoa of another species are injected into it, e.g. when the spermatozoa of bulls are injected into rabbits. SphaceSotOXine.—A constituent of ergot, now lielieved to owe its activity to ergo- toxine. Sphing^Omyelin. — One of the phos- phatides, the most important constituent of protagon (found in brain substance). Sphygmomanometer. — See Blood Pressure. SphygmO-Oscillometer.—An in- strument, devised by Dr. V. Pachon, for the clinical estimation of blood pressure, and the studj' of the variations which occur in the cardiac cycle as manifested by the pulse wave ; it is described in detail {imth illustrations) in the British Medical Journal (ii. for 1910, p. 176.5). Spinal Anaesthesia. — A^ee Anes- thesia and AN/ESTHETICS {Spinal).