CANCER 91 that by their use certain cases of cancer could be cui'ed. These serums were investigated by Paine and Morgan at the Cancer Hospital {Lancet, April 7, 1906), who treated 9 suitable cases. In 4 the injections produced no result, in 3 they caused severe constitutional disturb- ance, and in 2 great pain. The investigators could not confirm the alleged specificity of m. neoformans. Alexis Thomson (Edin. Med. Journ., xix. p. 53, 1906) treated three cases without benefit, and observed a marked re- action in a fourth case, which turned out to be of a simple (papillomatous) nature. See also a resume of Doyen's work, by Alexis Thomson, Edin. Med. Journ., xvii., p. 373, 1905, for details concerning the serum and vaccine, and on the bacteriology of m. neo- formans. Cancer Eeactions.—A number of attempts have been made to find some characteristic l)lood reaction which would prove useful in the diagnosis of malignant disease. Among these may be mentioned—(1) hsemolytic tests, (2) the antitryptic reaction, (3) the meio- stagmin reaction. (1) HcemoJytic Ueadions.—The fact that ex- tracts of cancerous tumours cause hiemolysis has led to a search for hsemolysins in the blood of cancer patients, but, while it seems from the work of Johnstone and Canning {Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc., Oct. 30, 1909) that a positive reaction (hsemolysis) with cancer serum and alien cor- puscles is much more common than where either normal or serum from other diseases is used, much work is yet required before this test is, if indeed it ever becomes, available for clinical purposes. See also Janeway {Annals of Surgerji, xlix. p. 27, 1909—positive reaction in 40 to 57 per cent, of cases). Elsbey, Neutrof, and Geist describe {Amer. Journ. Med. Sci., Feb. 1910) a cutaneous reaction following the sub- cutaneous injection of a suspension of normal human corpuscles under the skin of cancer patients. A positive reaction shows itself by the formation at the point of inoculation, in the course of a few hours, of a red, raised area with a pale areola. A positive reaction occurred in from 77 to 90 per cent, of cases of cancer, while in normal (non-cancei'ous) cases it occurred in only 4*6 per cent. Advanced or miliary cancer does not gi^^e the reaction. (2) Antitri/ptic Ileacfion.—This was described by Brieger and Trebing in 1908. It consists in a marked inci'ease in the powei' of the blood serum to inhil)it the proteolytic activity of a solution of tiypsin. Details of the technique may be found in a paper by Weil {Amer. Journ. Med. Sci, May 1910). Here it is sufficient to sa-y that in the original method of Brieger and Trebing plates of coagulated blood serum are employed, and the test is made l)y applying loopfuls of varjang quan- tities of a solution of trypsin and a constant quantity of the serum to be tested. After incubating the plate the largest quantity of trypsin which has been inhibited gives the "antitryptic index" of the serum. In another method solutions of casein are employed in- stead of blood serum, and after being digested with the tiypsin and serum acid is added, whereupon any undigested casein is precipi- tated. Here the lowest amount of trypsin which causes complete digestion gives the antitryptic index. The nature of the anti- trypsin present in the serum is not known; it is not cei"tain whether it is a true immune body. An increase in the antitryptic index occurs—(1) in nearly all (95 per cent.) cases of cancer. (2) In chronic wasting diseases— diabetes, severe anaemias. (3) In Graves' disease. (4) In chronic infections—tubercu- losis ; and acute infections—pneumonia, sepsis, typhoid. (5) After labour, during the puer- perium. (6) In infants, on the transition from breast to artificial feeding. The chief points of diagnostic value to be olitained from testing the antitryptic index ai'e these:—(1) Absence of a raised index is against cancer; (2) a raised index in a patient with a tumour of doubtful nature is in favour of either cancer or tuberculosis : (3) a raised index is constant in Graves' disease, hence in the larval forms of the malady it may be of assistance. (3) Meiostaf/niin Reaction (/xetwv, small; o-ra^co, I drop).—The principle involved in this re- action, invented by Ascoli of Pavia (Milnch. medizinische Worliensdirift, Jan. 11, Feb. 22, April 19, May 24, May 31, 1910), is not new, but its application in immunity tests is a novel one. The idea is to employ the measurement of the surface tension of a mixture of antigen and antibody as a means of discovering whether an interaction has occurred. Thus, with mix- tures of known antigens (typhoid and tubei'cle bacilli extract) and tuberculous and typhoid sei'ums, it was found that the surface tension of the mixtures was lowered in comparison to that of normal serum. The surface tension is measiu-ed by Traube's stalagmometer, an instrument by which the number of drops yielded by a given quantity of fluid is counted ; the smaller the drop the lower the surface tension, and vice v/rsd. Using extracts of cancei'ous tissue as antigens, a similar lowering of the surface tension was obtained with the serums of cancer patients, but not with those of normal persons. The same phenomenon was observed with extracts of ankylostoma and echinococcus and the serums of persons suffering from ankylostomiasis and hydatid disease. Sarcoma, Operative Treatment of.—On account of the disappointing outcome of high amputation for the more malignant forms of sarcoma of the extremities, e.ff. periosteal