153 EUGENICS or on the no less uncertain sea of matrimony. A people which resents interference -with the liberty of the subject to such an extent as to demand and secure the conscientious ob- jector's exemption in the case of vaccination, is not likely to allow its rights to choose a mate to be abrogated at the bidding of the Eugenics Education Society. At the same time, the medical profession ought to support those who are endeavouring to make generally known the aims of eugenics. These are : " Persistently to set forth the national importance of eugenics in order to modify public opinion, and create a sense of responsibility in the respect of bringing all matters pertaining to human parenthood under the domination of eugenic ideals; to spread a knowledge of the laws of heredity, so far as they are surely known, and so far as that knowledge might affect the improvement of the race; and to further eugenic teaching, at home, in the schools, and elsewhere." It is when the " eugenist" attempts to go beyond the educa- tion of public opinion that an element of doubt obtrudes itself; it is one thing to educate and quite another to coerce. The regular and systematic teaching of heredity and antenatal pathology and hygiene in universities may also be commended ; and no objection need be urged against the proposal made by Mr. Eden Phill- potts and seriously supported by Havelock Ellis {.Yew Age, 7th March and 11th April 1908), that there should be a State Department for the unborn, although it is difficult to imagine such a bit of Government machinery in being. " The Department would be entirely devoted to the interests of the next generation ; it would have nothing to say concerning marriage, but as soon as men and women set about becoming mothers and fathers they would have to reckon with this Department." Here again the idea of compulsion, of strong suasion at least, comes in, and the world is hardly ready for this. With a falling birth-rate and the national anxiety engendered thereby, it is futile for eugenists to insist that "there are circumstances in Avhich the number of the family should be kept within reasonable limits " ; but it is perfectly right that, since the supply of babies is lessening year by year, every eff'ort should be made to bring them into the world healthy and keep them in life when they arrive. It is hardly the time to advise a further reduction of the supply. When the laws of heredity are known with such exactness that it can be foretold with reasonable certainty that the offspring of this or that union will be of little or no civic worth, then it may be permissible to advise a self-induced sterility ; in the meantime, no such confident predictions can be made whilst, on the other hand, much can be done to prevent abortions and premature labours, and to benefit the unborn infant by helping his mother to keep from alcohol and by saving her from hard work and bad hygiene during pregnancy. With regard to the hope that eugenics may succeed in bringing into the world a large number of truly great men, time alone can tell; but it may be said that the genesis of the great man, of Dante, or Shakespeare, or Goethe, or Carlyle, or Lister, is still a mystery, apparently un- governed by the known laws of heredity, and inexplicable by the circumstances which immediately precede his birth. He comes unheralded, and most frequently he leaves no trace of his greatness, either in his immediate or his remote descendants. LITERATURE. — Ballanttne, "Antenatal Thera- peutics" and "A Petition from the Unborn," Bril. Med. Journ., i. for 1899, pp. 889-893.—Galton, "Eugenics," Med. Times and Hasp. 6az., xxxii. p. 321, 1904.—Reid, G. A., Lancet, i. for 1904, p. 1685.—Galton, Nature, Ixxi. p. 401, 1904-f).—Galton, Amer. Journ. Social., xi. pp. 11-25, 1905-6.—Editorial, Lancet, i. for 1905, p. 1009. —Letter, Lancet, i. for 1907, p. 191.—Galton, Pop. Sc. Month., Ixxi. pp. 165-178, 1907.—Peaeson, Jbid., Ixxi. p. 385, 1907.—Habt, D. Bekky, Phases of Evolution and Heredity, 1910.—Various articles in Eugenics Rev., i. Nos. 1 and 2, 1909, and in Eugenics Laboratory Memoirs, Parts i.-vi., 1908-11. Eugenism.—The aggregate of the most favourable conditions for healthy and happy existence (Galton). See EuGENlCS {Definition). Eula,tin.—A compound of amido-benzoic and bromo-l)enzoic acid with antipyrin, forming a whitish, slightly acid powder ; it is recom- mended by Baedeker {Therap. Movatshr., xxiii. p. 480, 1909) in the treatment of pertussis, and he considers that it acts (through the antipyrin) on the specific organism, whilst the bromide counteracts the neurosis and the benzoic acid aids as an expectorant; F. Zernik has also written on this preparation {Apoth.-Zeitg., xxix. p. 137, 1909). Evitabie Abortion.—Threatened Mis- carriage. See Abortion {Treatment). Exophthalmometer, Hertel's.— An ophthalmological instrument consisting of a frame carrying two sets of angularly placed mirrors which can be fitted exactly against the outer edges of the orbits ; the degree of protru- sion of the eyeballs is got by viewing the eye laterally and superposing the image of a milli- metre scale on the image of the eye so seen. Extra-Pharmacopoeia.—The ag- gregate of the drugs which are not yet, although they ultimately may be, included in the Phar- macopoeia ; they are described in Martindale and Westcott's Extra-Pliarmacopoeia and in the British Pharmaceutical Codex. FagopyrismuS. — Buckwheat poison- ing. See Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc., lii. p. 1785, 1909.