GALL BLADDER AND BILE DUCTS, DISEASES OF l&l 11 and prove a source of infection to other persons. See Typhoid Fever. It has been shown that micro-organisms serve as nuclei round which cholesterin may collect to form gall-stones. Streptococci, pneumococci, 6. coli, and especially h. typhosus, act in this manner. Their action is a twofold one; they set up catarrh of the gall bladder, which leads to the production of cholesterin; clumps of bacilli then form nuclei, around which this collects. The facts on which the statement that bacillary infection of the gall bladder is a cause of gall-stones are:—(1) The frequency with which gall-stones occur in persons who have suffered from typhoid fever or cholecystitis or from other causes. (2) The isolation of organ- isms from the nuclei of gall-stones. (3) The experimental production of calculi by the intro- duction of attenuated cultures of b. coli into the gall bladder. It seems that a low degree of virulence is essential to the production of gall- stones ; if the organism is virulent, suppurative cholecystitis ensues. Primary cancer of the gall bladder is less rare than used to be supposed. It is almost invariably associated with gall-stones (95 per cent, of the cases). The gall-stones are believed to be a predisposing cause of cancer, and this fact is one of the principal reasons why it is advisable to excise the bladder (cholecystectomy) during operations for the removal of gall-stones. Bland Sutton says on this point: " Since I have had every gall bladder which has been removed in my practice examined microscopically, I have been astonished at the frequency with which it is the seat of cancer." The symptoms of cancer of the gall bladder are obscure. Patients usually seek advice either on account of a local swelling less acute than a cholecystitis, and yet accompanied by obvious impairment of the health, or with signs suggestive of malignant disease of the liver. Bland Sutton regards the fact that diseases of the gall bladder are caused by descending infections, together with the relation of cancer to gall-stones and cholecyst- itis, as supporting the idea of the micro-parasitic origin of some forms, at least, of cancer. " More than half the total number of cases [of cancer] which attack mankind arise in the alimentary tract. This supports the idea that the hypoth- etic parasite of cancer is conveyed by uncooked food or water. It is conceivable that cancer of the gall bladder is caused by some infecting agent obtained from the alimentary canal by the blood and eliminated by the liver and lodged in the gall bladder, where it stimulates the epithelium to unnatural growth. Infection of epithelium causes it to multiply: this is exemplified in the gall bladder. Its mucous membrane under normal conditions contains few glands, but when it is chronically inflamed, mucous glands become abundant and of large size. In cases of fistulse between gall bladder and intestine the mucous membrane becomes thick and resembles that of the intestine. These mucous glands are important, for they are the chief sources of the calcium found in mixed biliary concretions. It is undeniable that gall- stones are a common complication of cancer of the gall bladder, and many writers have main- tained that they are the cause of the cancerous change. I have never accepted this opinion, preferring to believe that the pathological con- ditions of the epithelium lining the gall bladder which cause it to produce cholesterin in abund- ance, increase its vulnerability to the micro- organism of cancer. For this reason, among others, the surgeon acts in the best interests of his patient when he removes gall bladders when they are so disordered as to require surgical interference" (op. cit., pp. 147-148). Bland Sutton tabulates operations on the bile passages thus :—A. Gall bladder and cystic duct: (1) Cholecystotomy; (2) Cholecystectomy; (3) Cholecystenterostomy; (4) Cholecystendysis (removal of calculi, followed by suture of gall bladder); (5) Cystecotomy. £. Cominon bile duct: (1) Choledochotomy; (2) Duodeno chole- dochotomy ; (3) Choledocho-duodenostomy; (4) Choledochectomy ; (5) Choledocho-enterostomy. C. Hepatic ducts : {\) Hepaticotomy ; (2) Hepato- duodenostomy. D. Intrahepatic ducts: (1) Hepato-hepaticotomy; (2) Hepato - choliangio- jejunostomy. Cholecystectomy is performed for cholecystitis, mycosis, primary cancer, calculi in the bladder, or in the cystic duct. It has the advantage over cholecystotomy of being equally safe, and of being unattended by such sequelae as biliary and mucous fistulse, suture sinuses and abscesses, and the formation of gall-stones on buried sutures. Details con- cerning the performance of the above series of operations, as well as the precise conditions in which each is applicable, will be found in Mr. Sutton's book, which also contains a bibliography of recent literature. Some of the arguments against cholecystec- tomy are fairly stated by Deaver {Amer. Journ. Med. Sci., April 1908). His objections consist of (1) the inadvisability of removing a function- ating structure ; (2) the desirability of retaining the gall bladder as a means of drainage in septic conditions of the liver and biliary pass- ages. He doubts whether sufficient drainage takes place by the common duct into the duodenum, and in any case considers it un- surgical in the extreme to drain one infected organ into another; (3) the ultimate results of the operation, particularly the occurrence of post-operative adhesions. The indications for cholecystectomy, accoi'ding to Deaver, are:— Hydrops of the gall bladder, cancer, chronic empyema, when calculi cannot be removed otherwise—e.g. if embedded in the mucous mem- brane. The gall bladder should not be removed in acute catarrhal calculous or non-calculous