42 ANTITEYPTIC INDEX thus with the normal serum the solution may drip through in 100 seconds, and with the abnormal in 103| seconds, when the antitryptic index is 3|. See F. C. Eve's article in the Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1910, p. 1540. Aphasia. See also Apraxia. — In a series of essays which appeared in the Semaine mMicale during 1906, Pierre Marie, one of the most eminent of living neurologists, has severely criticised the current doctrine of aphasia. The views he expressed have neither received general acceptance, nor have they been effectively con- troverted, and, pending further research, all that is necessary is to summarise Marie's leading contentions. His criticisms are based on clinical observa- tions, and on more than fifty autopsies on aphasic patients. He is peculiarly fortunate in having so much material at his disposal, and it is not unnatural that he should urge that the best way to study aphasia is from a clinico- pathological standpoint pure and simple, in preference to being influenced by theory and graphic representations of the speech mechanism. The leading features of Marie's conception of aphasia are that there is always (1) more or less difficulty in comprehending spoken language, and (2) a marked diminution in the general mental capacity. The failure to understand speech which all aphasics manifest has escaped recognition be- cause of the simple nature of the ordinary test questions. A patient may be able to show his tongue at request, but cannot execute a more complicated order. A clinical test employed by Marie is as follows :—" There are three pieces of paper; give me the biggest, crumple up the second one and throw it on the floor, put the smallest in your pocket." No aphasic, he says, can do this correctly. A further reason why mental impairment has evaded notice is that the affective faculties are less aff'ected than the intellect. Thus, a patient continues to act normally in his family and social relations, but he loses the accomplish- ments which he has gradually acquired—the musician can no longer compose, the cook produces uneatable dishes, the business man forgets simple arithmetic, and so on. Marie subdivides aphasia into one subordinate and two main symptom groups :—1. Aniarthria, in which speech alone is lost, but the patient can read, hear, and understand. 2. Wernicke's aphasia, in which the patient can speak, though badly, understands badly, and cannot read or write. The inability to read and write is not word deafness or blindness, but arises from mental impairment. 3. llroca's aphasia, in which the patients can neither read nor write, understand badly, and have lost the power of speech. Obviously, the only difference between (2) and (3) is the retention or loss of the power of speech, and Marie regards this as the essential distinction between them. From a pathological point of view, his classification is even simpler. Broca's aphasia is simply (1) plus (2) — Wernicke's aphasia with anarthria. Anarthria is caused by lesions of the lenticular region on either side; there is failure of co-ordination of the movements required for speech, but no paralysis. The lesion causing Wernicke's aphasia is in the " association centre " of Flechsig — the left supra - marginal and angular gyrus and first and second temporal convolutions. Lesions in this region are generally due to obstruction of the sylvian artery. The larger the area of softening produced, the more severe is the aphasia, and the more likely is the lenticular region to be jointly affected. Individual varia- tions in the distribution of the vessels play an important part in producing variations in the clinical picture. Mental deterioration is on the whole less in motor than in sensory aphasia, because the lesion causing the former is generally farther removed from the cortex. Marie admits that pure, or almost pure, word blindness also exists. He looks on it as due to softening in the domain of the posterior cerebral artery, and localises the lesion in the left lingual and fusiform lobes on the inferior aspect of the cerebrum, impairing the integrity of the optic radiation. Marie's destructive criticism must now be referred to. His chief contentions are :—(1) Broca's (the third left frontal) convolution has nothing to do with aphasia, because (a) in some right-handed persons its destruction has not caused aphasia; (b) it has been found intact in some well-marked cases of Bi'oca's aphasia ; and (c) its frequent involvement in cases of aphasia is merely a coincidence, and arises from the fact that the blocking of the sylvian artery which causes softening often occurs proximally to the vessel supplying the third left frontal, and hence affects that along with Wernicke's area. (2) Pure word deafness does not exist. Alleged instances arise from mal-observation and failure to recognise minor degrees of laby- rinthine deafness. The first left temporal con- volution is not a centre for the memory of words. (3) Pure motor aphasia is nothing but anarthria. (4) No distinction exists between cortical and subcortical aphasia, for no aphasia due to a focal lesion is ever purely cortical. Marie's positive teaching may be summed up thus :—Aphasia is either intrinsic (Wernicke and Broca—language area involved), or extrinsic (anarthria—language area not involved). Wer- nicke's area contains the true speech centre; it is an intellectual rather than a sensory centre. There is always intellectual defect in aphasia. The degree of speech disturbance depends on the size of the lesion. Pure word blindness I differs from the other forms in being due to