279 OCHRONOSIS varies from a brown to a pure black, while in some cases the ears and fingers have a steely iridescence. Pick describes the aspect of a patient with ochronosis as grotesque : her face was coffee-brown, with deep brown spots round the eyes ; the ears were iridescent steel-blue ; and the hands, a dull slate The pigmentation of the eyes is almost pathognomonic (Osier). There are symmetrically disposed brown or black triangular areas on each eye, bounded by a narrow border of normal sclera. On post- mortem examination the cartilages, tendons, ligaments, inner coats of arteries, valves of the heart, fascia, and e\en the kidneys and other viscera are yellow, brown, smoky, or inky black. 2. Urine. In a number of cases raelanuria has been observed. Sometimes the urine is dark when passed; in other instances it turns black on exposure to the air. 3. Chronic arthritis affecting various joints has been described in several of the reported cases. Pathology.—The nature of ochronosis is ob- scure. In several cases there is definite proof that the patient suffered from alkaptonuria {Encyclopedia and Dictionary,Yo\. X. p. 294), a congenital condition in which the urine contains a copper-reducing substance and turns black on exposure to the air. In another group of cases there is presumptive evidence of chronic carbolic acid poisoning. Such, for example, have been reported by Pick and Reid, in which the existence of chronic ulcer of the leg had led to the continued application of carbolic acid dressings over long periods of time. Here the urinary discoloration is probably due to •carboluria. In yet a third series of cases the black urine was due to neither of the above causes ; these may have been examples of true melanuria. Melanotic pigments in general are derived from tyrosin by the action of a ferment named tyrosinase, and Pick suggests that this ferment may also be able to convert into melanin the hydroxyl aromatic substances which exist in the circulation of alkaptonuric patients (endogenous ochronosis) as well as the phenol absorbed in chronic carbolic poisoning {exogenous ochronosis). Garrod states that while alkaptonuria and chronic carboluria may cause ochronosis they cannot be the only con- ditions producing this curious pigmentary anomaly. LITERATURE.—Pope, Lancet, 6th Jan. 1906.— Pick, Berl. klin. Wochensch., 16th, 23rd, 30th April, 7th May 1906.—Gaekod, Lancet, 6th Jan. 1906.— Reid, Osler, and G.^rrod, Quarterly Journ. Med., 1908, vol. i. p. 199. Excellent coloured plates illustrating the Appearances are contained in Pope's and Raid's papers. Occupational Diseases. — See Trades, Dangerou.S, in Encyclopedia and Dictionary, Vol. X. pp. 8-i-lOO. A second International Congress of Occupational Dis- eases met in Brussels in 1910. See Lancet, ii. for 1910, p. 514. Oculo - reaction. — See iMiiuNixY {Cabnettes Test). Odynphag'ia.—Pain during swallowing (Gr. oo■J^-/;, pain ; and :paysiy, I eat). Offset Theory. — See "Ersatz" Theory. Oligroplasmia.—A state of the blood in which there is a diminution in its liquid constituents ; anhydrtemia; it contrasts with polyplasmia. Oiivenoi iodate.—a substitute for the alkaline iodides, being a combination of iodine with olive oil; it may be gi\'en sub- cutaneously ; and it is stated that iodism is not produced. See Fortescue-Brickdale, Nevjer Remedies, p. 20, 1910. Omnopon.—The name used in Great Britain for pantopon (g.v.). OncllOCerciasis. — The infection of meat with the Onchocerca gihsoni, a worm belonging to the family Filariidse. In an ox carcase so infected nodular swellings or cysts are found under the skin (but not in the muscles) in the regions of the flanks, knees, shoulders, and elsewhere ; these nodules contain the worm or worms, and in the female are many minute embryos. The worms are not directly transmissible but require an inter- mediary, e.g. a biting insect for their spread, so that, of course, no danger follows the eating of flesh thus infected by the human subject. The condition is not peculiar to Australia and Australian meat, for the parasite has been reported fi'om the Malay States, Java, India, and also the United States of America. Corre- sponding but distinct species affect the horse {Onchocerca reticiiluta) and the human subject in tropical Africa [Onchocerca volvulus). See Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1910, p. 1796 : i. for 1911, p. 385. Ookinet. — The vermiculus or motile spindle which results from the union of the nuclei of the macrogamete and the microgamete of the malarial organism within the body of the mosquito. Open-air Recovery School.—A plan introduced in Berlin (Charlottenburg), and extended to other places, of giving anajmic and poorly nourished children the open-air ti'eat- ment with systematic feeding and a certain amount of intellectual work ; most of the time at the school is occupied -with gardening, nature study, personal hygiene, etc. See