19 ACCOUCHEMENT FORCE cause of much writnig; as it is, it may be said that the sphere of its usefulness has now been marked out with a certain degree of definite- ness. In early pregnancy, when for any reason the uterus requires to be emptied quickly, Diihrssen's operation is by many regarded as the best means of so doing, for it is founded on sound surgical principles; but it requires con- siderable technical skill, and is emphatically the operation of the obstetric specialist (calling, as it does, for qualified assistants and the equip- ment of a hospital). Munro Kerr {Operative Midwiferi/, p. 476, 1908) is of opinion that up to the twenty-eighth week of gestation it is the liest way of rapidly emptying the uterus; and there is much to be said in support of this con- clusion if it be added that a skilled operator accustomed to vaginal surgery is available to carry it out. The indications for its perform- ance would therefore be such morbid states as hyperemesis gravidarum, chorea gravidarum, and eclampsia before the seventh month. In the later months of pregnancy the vaginal operation does not seem so applicable, for the extraction of a full-sized child through the opening made for it by this route can hardly be safely accomplished, and damage to the lower uterine segment is to be anticipated. Munro Kerr, therefore (np. cit. p. 476), would prefer the ordinary a1)dominal Caesarean section for the cases in which Diihrssen and his followers recommend the vaginal operation. It would a,ppear also that the latter procedure is not suitable in placenta previa; but it may be favourably considered in cases of cancer, and perhaps of myoma of the cervix and lower part ■of the uterus. With regard to the details of the operation of vaginal Ca3sarean section there have been some differences of opinion. As originally per- formed by Diihrssen, it was customary to incise both the anterior and posterior walls of the vagina, and some operators still pursue this method; but it is now more usual (especially in the early months of pregnancy) for the in- cision to affect only the anterior wall, i.e. anterior hysterotomy. Further, Diihrssen him- self {Berl. klin. Wochenschr., xlvi. p. 194, 1909) has recently given his approbation to a new method devised by his assistant, Solms; this consists in a combination of gastro-elytrotomy (Ritgen) and vaginal Cesarean section (laparo- colpohysterotomy), and really differs so much that it ought rather to be regarded as a new procedure altogether (Solms, Berl. klin. I'Vochenschr., xlvi. p. 199, 1909). Vaginal Csesarean section, as usually performed, differs somewhat according to the age of pr'egnancy Avhen it is carried out. If it be indicated in early pregnancy, then the following method may be used (De Lee, 1906; Munro Kerr, 1908; Whitridge Williams, 1908):—The patient is placed in the lithotomy position, and the usual thorough cleansing of the vulva is carried out. One skilled assistant gives the anaesthetic and another helps the operator; it is well to have a third, if possible, to prepare and hand ligatures, etc. A good light is essential, and a large speculum or I'ctractor is needed to expose the cervix by pulling back the posterior vaginal wall. The cervix is then seized with two pairs of volsellae and dragged down towards the vulva; strong heavy traction sutures (silk or gut) are then passed through the cervix on l)oth sides to replace the volsellfe and maintain the uterus at its low level, thus giving more space for manipulation. A transverse incision is made across the cervix immediately below the reflec- tion of the bladder, encircling the cervix in one- third of its circumference, and a longitudinal cut is next made, passing up to about 1 cm. from the urethra; both these incisions divide only the mucous membrane. The finger is then introduced through these incisions and the bladder pushed out of the way, and it is very important that this be done thoroughly; thus the pouch of peritoneum is displaced up- wards and the anterior cervical wall is laid bare. The next step is the division of the anterior wall of the cervix with scissors and in the middle line ; further traction is made and the lower uterine segment comes into view; this also is incised; and then, as a rule, the bag of membrane bulges thi'ough, is ruptured, and the child extracted by turning. The placenta and membranes are next stripped off and removed. A hypodermic injection of ergotine may have been given at the beginning of the operation; if not, it should be adminis- tered now. An intra-uterine douche (at a temperature of 116° or 118° F.) will now be found to be useful in making the uterus retract. The uterine wound is closed by a continuovis catgut suture, beginning at the upper end of the incision and having the stitches close together. If the uterine cavity has l)een previously plugged with gauze, care will have to lie taken that the stitches do not catch upon the packing. The vaginal incisions are next closed with catgut, but a thin strip of gauze may be placed in the vesico-uterine space (in front of the cervix) and withdrawn (along with the uterine plug) twenty-four hours later. It should be added that after the extraction of the child and placenta the re-insertion of the vaginal speculum and the making of traction upon the cervix will bring the field of operation fully into view and greatly facilitate the later stages of the operation. It may be necessary, according to Munro Kerr, to pull the uterus back and tack it into position before closing the vaginal incision. The whole operation is, as will have been noted, an extra-peritoneal one: the reflection of peritoneum in front of the uterus is pushed upwards and out of the way so as to give access to the anterior aspect