NEPHRITIS, TREATMENT OF 276 discarded (see Puerperal Eclampsia, p. 128; Kidneys, Surgery of, p. 221). Uremia.—The pathology of uraemia still remains to be elucidated. The general im- pression at the present time is that it cannot be explained simply on the assumption that it is due to retention in the blood of substances which should be eliminated by the kidney, but that it is rather due to some abnormal metabolic process. Some recent work by Golla suggests that its phenomena may be due to the presence of trimethylamine, which is present in excess in the blood of nephritic patients. The precursor of trimethylamine is probably lecithin. Widal ascribes some of the symptoms of uraemia— particularly those affecting the nervous system —to retention of chlorides. His view is that both the chlorides and urea may be retained in some cases; in others, the chlorides only ; in others, the urea. The percentage of urea in the blood is invoked to distinguish these; if it is below 1 gram per litre the toxaemia is due to chlorides, if 3 to 4 grams per litre, it is probably due to the urea. The chief signs of azotaemia are gastro-intestinal disturbance, anorexia, pros- tration, and torpor. To Widal and his school oedema is explained solely as due to salt retention. This, however, is too one-sided a view. Chloride retention undoubtedly does lead to oedema, but, as von Noorden says, " we should be greatly wanting in critical acumen were we to suppose that this is the only, or even the most important, factor in the production of the condition, and, in con- sequence, to regulate the entire diet of renal patients on ' osmotic principles.'" REFERENCES. — V. Nooeden, Metabolism and Practical Medicine, vol. ii. (London), 1907.—Golla, Quarterly Journ. Med., Jan. 1909.—Widal and Javal, La cure de dechloruration (Paris), 1906.—BOTD, Scott. Med. and Surg. Journ., Feb. 1906.—Finny, Dud. Journ. Med. Sci, March 1906. NephrotOXin.—The cytotoxin or cyto- lysin of the renal cells. Nerves, Surgery of.—Regeneration of Nerves.—There are two theories as to the manner in which regeneration takes place in a divided nerve. We have first the older, neuron theory, according to which new axis cylinders grow down from the central segment into the peripheral degenerated part of the nerve; and second, the peripheral theory, according to which axis cylinders arise independently in the periphery from chains of cells which ultimately represent the sheath of Schwann, and become united secondarily with the central cells. Murphy (^Surgery, Gynecology, and Obstetrics, April 1907) summarises the main arguments on either side thus :—In support of the nearon theory—(1) His and others have found that an axon is an embryologic outgrowth of a nerve cell. (2) The neurons are anatomic- ally independent. (3) An axis cylinder separ- ated from its trophic cell degenerates, but the degeneration does not involve neighbouring neurons. Against the neuron theory — (1) Some of the appearances on which the theory is based are artefacts. (2) Clinical observa- tions force us to conclude that peripheral regeneration is possible. (3) According to the neuron theory, degeneration precedes regenera- tion. Histological examination shows that repair and degeneration go on simultaneously. In a discussion which took place at the Liver- pool Medico-Chirurgical Society (Liverpool Medico-Chirurgical Journal, Jan. 1906), both views were promulgated. Harrison held the central theory, stating that observation made by Gotch and himself on rabbits showed that after division and suture sensation reflexes appeared first near the point of suture, and at later periods at more distant parts. Kennedy, who held the peripheral view, relied on the rapid return of sensation after secondary suture in support of his theory. Mott {British Med. Journ., 29th Sept. 1906) holds that the axis cylinder has an exclusively central origin. The neurilemmal activity which takes place in the peripheral part of the divided nerve provides a preparatory scaflFolding for the development of new nerve fibres, but in no case has any evidence been forthcoming of auto-regeneration. On the whole, the leading authorities on the subject incline to older, central, neuron theory, in spite of the attempts which have been made to establish the fact of peripheral regeneration. Clinical reports as to the sequence of events in the return of function after division and suture of a nerve are very conflicting. Part of the conflict, so far as sensation is con- cerned, no doubt arise from failure to appreciate the various forms of sensibility, so brilliantly demonstrated by Dr. Henry Head {vide Sensa- tion). According to Murphy, the order in which restoration takes place is {a) restora- tion of the trophic energy of the tissues; (6) sensation ; (c) motion ; {d) material increase of the wasted muscles. According to Head and Sherren, there follow upon union of a divided nerve (1) restoration of protopathic sensibility, which begins in from six to sixteen weeks; (2) return of sensibility to light, touch, and minor degrees of temperature. This stage may begin as early as the sixth week, more likely as late as the fortieth, and may not be complete until the seventy-fifth week. Com- plete recovery may not occur until one and a-half or two years. Motor power is generally considerably later than the first stage of sensa- tion in returning, and often requires one or two years. The time required in cases of secondary suture is nearly double that required in primary suture. A limit of two years after