PFEIFFER'S EXPERIMENT 289 PfeifFer's Experiment.—-See Im- munity {Antibacterial Action). Phag'oiysis. — See Immunity {Metch- nikoff's Theonj). Pharyngromycosis Leptothrica. —The presence of a coating or membrane (with micro-orgatiisms in it) upon the tonsils and other parts of the mouth and pharynx; the membrane shows numerous lymphocytes, epithelial cells, and the leptothrices buccal; it is to be observed in normal subjects some- times over the tonsils, but is specially associated with thrush and diphtheria, and is common in those who are liable to tonsillitis. Phenolax.—A trade name of phenol- phthalein (q.v.). Phenolphthalein.—A chemical sub- stance, a phenol derivative, represented by the formula C,H,CO.0. 0(0^4-OU).,; its purgative properties were accidentally discovered as the result of its being used as an " indicator" for certain Hungarian wines; it is a tasteless, odourless powder, insoluble in water, and does not, save in large doses, have any irritant action on the kidneys ; its dose is from 1 to 5 grains, and it may be given in one dose at bedtime, or in smaller amounts after each meal ; its purga- tive action has been ascribed to the pro- duction " of a solution with high osmotic pressure in the alkaline contents of the small intestine ; it is recommended as a mild purgative, specially suitable for children, although some have reported that its use aggravated haimor- rhoids, and others have noted some uncertainty in its action," and if given in tablet form it must not be swallowed whole but sucked or broken down into powder. There is already a large literature dealing with phenolphthalein, either under that or another of its many trade names ; but see Fortescue-Brickdale, Neioer Remedies, pp. 76-77, 1910 ; Benedict, Therap. Gaz., 3 S. XXV. p, 622, 1909; Quintard, Arch, mid. d'Angers, xii. p. 400, 1908; Rowntree, Bull. Johns Hopkins Hosp., xx. p. 29-3, 1909; Turlais, Arch. vied, d'Angers, xii. p. 406, 1908; Wood, Fhila. Hosp. Rep., vii. p. 183, 1909 ; Lancet, ii. for 1909, p. 1443. Phenosal.—An antipyretic of the phen- acetin group, being a compound of salicylacetic acid with phenetidin ; it forms a bitter powder, insoluble in water; its dose is 8 grains ; it has been stated to have only slight physiological action. See Fortescue-Brickdale, Newer Reme- dies, p. 217, 1910. Phenyl-aianin.—One of the polypep- tids which have been produced synthetically, alanin being amino-propionic acid. Phesin.—A drug of the phenacetingroup, being a sodium salt of phenacetin sulphonic acid, much more soluble than phenacetin ; the dose is from 15 to 30 grains; it is said, how- ever, to be a feeble antipyretic and analgesic, and to be liable to produce much sweating. See Fortescue-Brickdale, Newer Remedies, p. 225, 1910. Phlebotomus Fever.— A disease occurring in Malta, Egypt, and other counti'ies bordering on the Mediterranean, called also " sandfly " or " three-days' fever," or " Pym's fever" (after Surgeon Pym, who described cases in 1804) ; it is said to be due to an organism transmitted by the owl - midge or sandfly {Phlebotomus papatasii); and it shows resemblances to dengue and influenza. See Lieut.-Col. Birt's article (with Literature) in the Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1910, pp. 875-878. Phonoscope.—An instrument devised by Otto Weiss for photographing heart sounds, in which the vibrations are collected on a circular soap film (to which is attached a silvered glass thread) and thrown on a photo- graphic plate ; Weiss has thus been able to get curves of great delicacy and accuracy, and has even been able to photograph the heart sounds of the unborn infant. See his work, Phono- Kardioqramme, Jena, 1909. Phosphatides. — Lecitho-proteins or compounds of the protein molecule with lecithins, or, according to another view, nitrogen and phosphorus-containing lipoids ; they enter into the composition of nervous tissue, of the red blood corpuscle, of egg yolk, etc. ; chemically they are compounds of amino-acids with fatty acids and one or more nitrogenous bases; and physically they are colloidal and can dissolve other colloids, acting as fat- and cholesterin- carriers. See Adami, Pathology, i. p. 96, 1910. PhrenOSin.—A cerebroside (a nitrogen- containing phosphorus-free body), a constituent of brain protagon, containing galactose. PhtySOremid.—Koch's bacillary emul- sion in capsule form as introduced by Krause for the internal treatment of tuberculosis ; Kohler's results were not altogether encourag- ing {Ztschr.f. Tuberk., xiv. p. 89, 1909). PhytOtOXin.—A vegetable toxin. Pincus's Kettle.—»SeeAtmocausis. Pine-Apple Test.—A test for the presence of butyric acid in the stomach con- tents ; a few drops of concentrated sulphuric acid and a little alcohol are added to the dried ethereal extract of the gastric juice when, if butyric acid be present, the odour of ethyl butyrate (pine-apple odour) is given off. Piroplasmosis. — A disease due to 19