200 IMMUNITY should be counted, irrespective of the number of phagocytes containing them. The emulsion used ought therefore to be thick enough to give a phagocyte index of 2. Diagnostic Significa^ice of the Opsonic Index. ■—For tuberculosis Wright lays down the follow- ing rules :— 1. " Where an isolated blood examination reveals that the tuberculo-opsonic power of the blood is low, we may, according as we have evidences of a localised bacterial infection or of constitutional disturbance, infer with probability that we are dealing with tuberculosis, in the former case with a localised tubercular infec- tion, in the latter with an active systemic infection." 2. " When an isolated blood examination reveals that the tuberculo-opsonic power of the blood is high, we may infer that we have to deal with a systemic tuberculous infection which is active, or has recently been active." 3. " Wliere the tuberculo-opsonic power is found normal, or nearly normal, while there are symptoms suggestive of tuberculosis, we are not warranted, apart from the further test described below, in arriving at a positive or negative diagnosis." 4. " Further test:—When a serum is found to retain in any considerable measure, after it has been heated to 60° C. for 10 minutes, its power of inciting phagocytosis, we may con- clude that ' incitor elements' have been elabor- ated in the organism either in response to auto-inoculations occurring spontaneously in the course of tubercular infection, or, as the case may be, under the artificial stimulus supplied by the inoculation of tubercle vaccine." 5. If the opsonic power of the fluids from the focus of invasion diflers from that of the blood, tubercle is indicated; if it is the same, the infection is non-tuberculous. 6. Some observers (Stewart, Peel, Ritchie) regard single estimations as inconclusive, as both tuberculous and non-tubei-culous cases fall within and without normal limits. The effect of a small dose of tuberculin on the index is of diagnostic value. In tuberculous subjects a " negative phase" follows, succeeded by a "positive phase"; in the non-tuberculous the negative phase is absent. (Lawson and Stewart.) The determination of the opsonic index in other than tubercular and pyogenic infections has so far given results of more scientific than practical interest. The amount of time which opsonic work demands militates greatly against its general adoption, even by those who have laboratory facilities at their disposal. Further reference will be made to the subject under the headings of some of the various bacterial diseases. 4. Specific Tuberculin Tests.—These furnish the only instances of reliable diagnostic reactions dependent on the phenomena of anaphylaxis. Analogous tests for typhoid and other infections have not proved trustworthy. The tests in question are three in number :—(1) Sub- cutaneous inoculation of Koch's old tuberculin. (2) Pirquet's cutaneous reaction. (3) Calmette's cculo-reaction. The introduction of the two latter has done much to supersede the deter- mination of the opsonic index in the diagnosis of tubercle. 1. Koclis SuhcHtmieons Tubercidin Reaction (1890).—Old tuberculin (Meister, Lucius I'fe IBriining), the glycerine extract containing the toxins of the tubercle bacillus, introduced by Koch in 1889, is employed. Subcutaneous injections of small quantities give rise in tubercular persons to («) general reaction— fever, malaise ; (5) focal reaction at the lesion ; (c) occasionally to a local reaction at the point of injection—" stich-reaction." The genei'al reaction is the most important. As a rule the temperature begins to rise in six or eight hours, and reaches a maximum in twelve hours; in exceptional cases it may occur earlier or later. A rise of temperature of 1° F. is considered positive. The focal re- action may be visible when the disease is on an exposed part—thus, a patch of lupus becomes hypersemic ; when the disease is deeply seated other signs of hypersemia may be detected—e.g. increase of crepitations in pulmonary mischief. The local reaction is shown by swelling and tenderness at the point of injection. Technique.—It is customary to Ijegin with mgr., and if no reaction occurs to repeat the injections at intervals of four days. Some increase the dose if the first injection is negative, giving in succession mgr., 1 mgr., 5 mgrs., and 10 mgrs. Others, instead of increasing the dose, continue with yy mgr.-i mgr., even when the first injection has been negative, because the susceptibility to tuberculin rises with successive doses, and even healthy persons may react to large quantities. If a doubtful reaction is got, the dose of o^' ^ mgr. should be repeated. In children it is advisable to restrict the dose to yV ™gi^"-) repeated if necessary. When the test is being applied the rectal temperature should be taken every two hours. It is generallj'^ agreed that when applied in the manner descriljed the test is very reliable, and not dangerous, pro\ ided that the following contra-indications l)e kept in view:— 1. The test should not be used when tubercle bacilli can be demonstrated. 2. Fever invalidates the test. This is the most serious practical drawback, as a tempera- ture of 99" F. in the rectum is sufficient to render it worthless. 3. It is contra-indicated in patients suffering from heart or kidney disease, epilepsy, diabetes, arterio-sclerosis; when hemoptysis has occurred.