177 HEART, DISEASES OF or complete block, and also perhaps when the heart is acting normally. As we have seen, experimental complete block, whether sudden or gradual, is attended by a temporary cessation of the ventricular beat, and it is reasonable to suppose that in disease the same thing takes place. When the conductivity of the a-v fibres is lowered by disease, any alteration of the auricular rhythm, such as may occur reflexly by way of the vagus, may be enough to irritate the independent ventricular rhythm and at the same time to cause a syncopal attack. The hypothesis that syncopal attacks are due to the transforma- tion, from whatever cause, of partial into com- plete block is inadequate to explain their occurrence in cases which already present the phenomena of total block. It may be, as Hay and Schmoll suggest, that in these cases there is some direct interference with the operation of the intra-ventricular stimuli—i.e. the inde- pendent stimuli which arise in the ventricle itself, and regulate its independent contraction. Syncopal attacks are sometimes heralded by an aura; Jellinek and Cooper suggest that these pre-seizure sensations may be due:—(1) To extra-systoles; (2) to slight short seizures pre- ceding more prolonged ones; (3) to the pumping in of blood into comparatively empty blood- vessels after an extra-systole has failed to open the aortic valves. The morbid anatomy of heart-block has now been fairly well worked out. In all cases a lesion of the auriculo-ventricular bundle is present. A. G. Gibson quotes the records of thirteen cases, and among the conditions found were fibroid change, gumma, atheroma, arterio- sclerosis, anaemic necrosis, cartilaginous tumour, round-celled sarcoma, and atheroma of the arteries. A remarkable acute case is reported by Jellinek, in which there was (gonorrhoeal) septic endocarditis and septic necrosis of the bundle. The essential feature, therefore, is a lesion implicating the auriculo-ventricular fibres. The prognosis of heart-block with syncopal attacks is uncertain, as the patient may die in a seizure. Patients with bradycardia alone may live for many years. Slight forms of depressed conductivity show that the myo- cardium is becoming involved. Mackenzie regards these cases as peculiarly susceptible to the action of digitalis, which he believes to lower the conductivity. The drug should therefore be given with caution. 2. Sinus Irregularity (Mackenzie), Respira- tory Irregularity (Hering).—As has been stated, the normal rhythmical stimulus to the contrac- tion of the heart arises in the primitive cardiac tissue at the mouth of the great veins. Under certain circumstances the stimuli may occur at irregular intervals of time, the normal sequence of events in the cardiac cycle being otherwise undisturbed. The characteristic of this form of irregularity (which is of vagus origin) is that the diastolic intervals vary in duration, but on auscultation the intervals between the first and second sound of the heart remain the same, while the individual beats of the pulse are of equal strength. Sinus irregularity is common in children, in young adults after fevers, and when the respiration is slow. It is the form of irregularity which is met with in tuberculous meningitis. Sinus irregularity is not of serious import, and requires no treatment. 3. Extra Systoles (Mackenzie), Pulsus extra- systolicus (Hering). — In this form of irregularity there is a premature contraction of the auricle or ventricle in response to a stimulus from some abnormal point in the heart, the funda- mental sinus rhythm being otherwise main- tained. The irregularity shows itself by a pre- mature beat, followed by an abnormally long pause. The premature beat is feeble; it may be so weak as not to reach the wrist. Hence an extra-systole is recognisable clinically as an "intermission." The pause which follows an T—I—r—I—t—I—I—I—I—1—I—I—1—I—1—r Fig. 7. — Auricular eitra-systole at {a'). The numbers represent tenths of a second and the irregular period (r') equab two normal periods (Mackenzie). extra-systole may be of such a duration that the intermission is exactly equal to two pulse periods, in which case it is said to be " com- pensatory." The pause in ventricular extra- systole (vide infra) is usually compensatory ; in nodal or auricular extra-systole it is generally shorter (non-compensatory), and in consequence the succeeding pulse beats do not fall into the rhythm we are counting. On auscultation an extra-systole is heard as two short, sharp sounds, or sometimes only a single sound, followed by a long pause. Extra-systoles may occur quite irregularly, or may be interpolated in regular succession alternating with normal beats, or after every second, third, or fourth beat, etc. (Pulsus bigeminus, etc.). If an extra-systole so feeble as to be imperceptible at the wrist occurs after every beat the pulse at the wrist appears very infrequent, and the condition may be mistaken for bradycardia, from which, however, it can be distinguished by auscultating the heart. An extra-systole may originate from the 12