SELIWANOFF'S TEST 332 / SeliwanofF's Test.—A test for levu- lose in urine consisting in the addition of a few crystals of resorcin and 10 c.c. of con- centrated hydrochloric acid to 10 c.c. of urine; the warming of the mixture causes a brilliant red colour to appear if levulose be present, whilst glucose produces no coloration. See Webster, Diagnostic Methods, p. 291, 1909. Sensation. — Afferent Nervous System.—One of the most important contribu- tions which have been made to our knowledge of the physiology of the nervous system in recent years is Dr. Henry Head's work on the conduction of sensory impulses in the peripheral nerves and spinal cord. His ob- servations are based on the effects of disease of the nervous system, on the results of nerve injuries, on referred pain in visceral disease, and on the phenomena produced in his own person by division and subsequent suture of a divided nerve. Broadly, what Head has done is to trace the different forms of sensory impulses through their diflferent paths in the peripheral nerves —the "primary level"—and to show that in the cord—the " secondary level"—the different impulses are redistributed and recombined in different paths; he suggests, further, that in the brain—"tertiary level"—a further redis- tribution and recombination takes place. For the almost innumerable detailed observations supporting his argument his original papers must be referred to. Setbsory Peripheral Mechanism.—There are three sets of sensory impulses : — (1) Deep sensibility—sensations of muscular and articular movement, and sensations of deep pressure, the last culminating in pain when the pressure is severe. (2) Protopathic sensibility—sensations of painful cutaneous stimuli, and of tempera- tures below 20° and above 50° C. Protopathic sensations are characterised by the impossibility of accurately localising them. (3) Epicritic sensibility—tactile sense in its restricted mean- ing, i.e. the power of appreciating gentle touches, of localising stimuli, of discriminating adjacent compass points, and of distinguishing warmth and coolness between 20° and 50° C. These three sets of impulses travel by different sets of nerves—deep sensibility in the muscular nerves; protopathic sensibility in many of the somatic and visceral afferent nerves ; epicritic sensibility in the peripheral cutaneous nerves. All the protopathic fibres from any area converge to the corresponding nerve root, which is, there- fore, the unit of protopathic supply; the epicritic fibres from an area of skin converge to a peripheral cutaneous nerve, which is therefore the U7iit of epicritic supply. When a peripheral nerve is divided there is a large ai'ca of lessened sensibility, and, within the confines of this, a smaller area of complete anaesthesia. In the latter, of course, both epicritic and protopathic sensibility are abolished; in the former only epicritic sensi- bility is gone, protopathic is preserved. The area of epicritic ansesthesia has a well-defined margin which corresponds with the distribution of the cutaneous nerve divided ; there is no overlap of fibres from adjacent nerves, hence, as has been said, the peripheral nerve is the unit of epicritic supply. The zone of protopathic ansesthesia—i.e. the smaller area of complete ansesthesia—has an ill-defined outline, which does not correspond with that of the area of distribution of the peripheral nerve ; the differ- ence in the distribution of the epicritic and protopathic ansesthesia is due to overlapping of protopathic fibres from adjacent nerves. If, however, a nerve root, instead of a peripheral nerve trunk, is divided, the areas of epicritic and protopathic anaesthesia coincide, whence it follows that the root is the unit of protopathic supply. Over the area of partial {i.e. epicritic) anses- thesia light touches are not felt, adjacent points are not discriminated, and temperatures between 20° and 30° are not distinguished. Protopathic sensations are preserved : a prick causes in- definitely - localised tingling pain, and only tempei-atures below 20° or above 50° are described as cold, or hot. Over the area of complete {i.e. epicritic and protopathic) ansesthesia only deep sensibility is preserved. After suture of a divided nerve the proto- pathic fibres are the first to be repaired—i.e. the analgesic area disappears. The area of epicritic ansesthesia (light touch, and moderate variations in temperature) may persist for months or years. The hyperalgesia which so often succeeds nerve injuries follows the course of the protopathic fibres, and, on account of their wide distribution and overlapping, it greatly exceeds the area of epicritic anses- thesia. Nutritional changes run parallel in extent and duration to the abolition of epicritic sensibility. Sensory Spinal Mechatdsm.—In the cord the threefold grouping of sensory impulses just described ceases to exist: the groups are dis- sociated, and redistributed into a group of sensations of pain, a group of sensations of temperature, a group of sensations of touch, and a group of sensations of passive position and movement and discrimination of adjacent points. Instead of the three groups of deep, protopathic, and epicritic, we have four —pain, temperature, tactile, and spacial. Sensations of pain and temperature pass up the side of the cord opposite to their point of entry; they are closely, but not inextricably associated. The group of tactile sensations are also crossed; the group of spacial sensations pass, uncrossed, up the side of the coi'd at which they enter.