313 PSYCHO-THERAPY AND PSYCHO-ANALYSIS logical habits, having no obvious connection with the reproductive functions." It is very necessary to state this, otherwise the investi- gator of the Freudian hypotheses may turn away in disgust or disbelief, knowing of course that the whole psychical life of an individual cannot be determined by his truly sexual experiences. But this dislike of the theories of Freud is unjustifiable, for a psychical trauma {e.g. a fright), not in any way of a sexual nature, and not even necessarily occur- ring in childhood, may, according to Frank of Zurich, be the possible cause of a psycho- neurosis. At the same time, it would be wrong to minimise the importance assigned by Freud himself to what he terms the sexual cause of a psycho-neurosis. When one thinks of the hap- hazard fashion in which the sexual life of children, both boys and girls, is allowed to develop, of the conflict between the desire for the gratification of desires, and the discipline of the outward life, of the intrusion of entirely eiToneous or grossly perverted notions derived from othei' children or from adults, it is not difficult to imagine such a hoideverseyneiit of the whole inner sexual life as may well leave its mark upon the whole future health of the individual, and especially upon that of the sensitive nervous system and its mental pheno- mena. Freud has shown that " the sexual life of children, though widely differing from that of adults, is far richer and more significant than is commonly supposed" ; further, " the «arly development of the sexual instinct is a highly delicate one, and one peculiarly prone to errors both of direction and intensity " ; can anyone, knowing the way in which children's questions on reproductive subjects are answered, realising the manner in which, therefore, their notions of sexual matters are built up, doubt that this development of the sexual instinct which is so "highly delicate" is often arrested, •deflected, deranged, or exaggerated 1 Is not the common prurient attitude of the young towards sexual subjects the evident sign of the absence of healthy and sufficient instruction in these matters 1 Is there not need of an intelligently •devised and wisely applied psycho-prophylaxis in childhood, and might not the mental health both of childhood and of adult life be preserved by psychical means'? These, at any rate, are •questions which are intimately associated with and possibly capable of being answered by Freud's investigations and theories. Closely associated with Freud's views upon psycho-analysis and psycho-therapeutics is his theory of dreams. He divides dreams into two parts, the dream itself or the manifest content of it {i.e. the dream as related by the dreamer), and the latent content or "dream-thoughts"; both are mental processes, and the explanation •of dreams, according to Freud, rests upon the appreciation of the difference between them. Ernest Jones and Schwab explain the theory as follows:—" The latent content, or dream- thoughts, is a logical and integral part of the mental life of the individual, and contains none of the incongruous absurdities and other peculiar features that characterise the manifest content of most dreams. This manifest content is to be regarded as an allegorical expression of the underlying dream-thoughts or latent content. The distortion of the dream-thoughts into the dream proper takes place by certain well-determined psychological laws and for certain precise reasons. The core of Freud's theorj^, and the most original part of his contribution to the subject, resides in his trac- ing back this distortion to a 'censor' which interposes an obstruction to the becoming- conscious of unconscious psychical processes. . . . A dream is thus not a confused and haphazard congeries of mental phenomena, but a distorted and disguised expression of highly significant psychical processes that have a very evident meaning, although, in order to appreciate this meaning, it is first necessary to translate the manifest content of the dream into its latent content in the same way that a hiero- glyphic script yields its meaning o\\\y after it has been interpreted." The theory goes on to state that the manifest content or dream proper has been derived from the underlying latent content or dream-thoughts {Traum- deutung) by certain mechanisms; one of these is condensation., by which many dream- thoughts are compressed into one element of the manifest content, and so "the material obtained by analysis of a dream is far richer and more extensive than the manifest content of that dream" ; another distorting mechanism is displacement., the psychical intensity of an element in the latent content differing from that of the same element in the manifest content; a third mechanism is dramatisation, or the tendency of the manifest content to be of a visual nature; and a fourth is that of secondary elabo7-atio?i, whereby the activitj'' not of the latent content, but of the more conscious mental processes interferes, giving some degree of order, sequence, and consistency to the dream. Freud's dream-theory is of considerable importance, for the principles underlying it extend into his explanation of other mental processes; indeed, Freud himself states that "dream interpretation is the golden way to the knowledge of the unconscious in mental life"; and it is upon this " unconscious " element and its resuscitation that so much of the knowledge of psycho-analysis and of the value of psycho-therapeutics depend. The application of these theories and the explanation of dreams to nervous disorders has caused Freud and his followers to alter considerably their classification and patho- genesis. A specific cause for each disease is