329 RONTGEN RAYS AND RADIUM grams," Wien. hlin. Wochensch., No. 47, 1907.—Jaksch, " X-ray Diagnosis," Berl. Hin. Wochensch., Nos. 14-15, 1905.—RiEDER, " Topography of Stomach," Fortsch. a. d. Geh. d, Rdntgcn StrahL, viii. p. 3.—Schule, " Topo- graphy of Stomach," Aixh. f. VerdauungsJc., 18th Dec. 1906 ; "Topography of Colon," ibid., SOrh April 1904. —LiLiENTHAL, "Topography of Colon," ibid., 25th April 1906.—Hemmkter, "Gastric Ulcer," ibid., 27th Oct. 1906.—ScHUTZ, "Gastric Cancer," Wien. klin. Wochensch., 5th April 1906.—Wickham, " Radium," Lancet, 29th May 1909.—V. Noorden, Metabolism and Practical Medicine (London), 1907, vol. iii. p. 1220- 1242, "X-rays and Radium."—Lewin, Miinch. med. Wochensch., 30th March 1909, "Toxic Effects of Bis- muth." ROSa.CiC Acid.—Prout's term for pur- purin or uroerythrin, a pigment found in a large number of normal urines. ROUgre'S Operation.--An operative procedure by which access is got to the nasal •cavities without making a scar on the face ; the flow of blood into the larynx and pharynx is prevented by plugging and doing laryng- otomy ; the upper lip is drawn up and freed from the maxilla ; the cartilaginous septum is detached from the anterior nasal spine, and the alar cartilages separated from the maxilla ; thus the nose can be turned up and the anterior nares exposed ; later the parts are replaced without sutures. ROUX'S Experiment.—The experi- ment (in artificial teratogenesis) by which Roux showed that destruction of a blastomere in the developing frog's egg was followed by absence of a definite region of the body in the resulting (monstrous) embryo; the theory of mosaic development is largely founded upon this and similar forms of experimental blast- otomy or blastomerotomy. Chabry also •carried out such experiments. See Ballantyne, Antenatal Pathology, ii. pp. 615-616, 1904. Rubber Gloves.—A^ee Labour, Man- agement OF; Surgery, Asepsis in. Rubinat - Liorach Water. — A natural mineral water containing 10'3 parts of anhydrous salts in 100 parts by measure, consisting principally of sodium sulphate along with magnesium sulphate, sodium chloride, and •calcium sulphate; a wineglassful is the dose as an aperient. For analysis see Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1910, p. 84. Rubner's Test.—A not very delicate test for lactose in urine; the urine with an excess of lead acetate is boiled for a few minutes, the yellowish or brown solution is then filtered and ammonia added till a slight permanent precipitate remains, and the result is a brick-red fluid which deposits a cherry-red precipitate. See Webster, Diagnostic Methods, p. 298, 1909. Ruppeli's Serum.— /S'ee Cerebro- spinal Meningitis {Treatment, Curative). RUSSO'S Test.—A test for typhoid fever said to be more reliable than the diazo reaction ; four drops of a 1 to 1000 aqueous solution of methylene-blue are added to 4 or 5 c.c. of the urine in a case of suspected typhoid ; the sus- picion is confirmed by the mixture becoming of an emerald or mint-green colour (positive reac- tion), and negatived by its turning light green or bluish-green (negative reaction); the po.sitive reaction is also got in measles, smallpox, and tuberculosis. See Webster, Diagnostic Methods, p. 321, 1909. Sabouraud's Pastilles.-«S'eeRoNT gen Rays and Radium. Sabromin.—A bromine compound,being the calcium salt of dibromine behenic acid (C.22H4,Bro0.j)Ca; it is a white, odourless, taste- less powder, which is insoluble in water ; the dose is from 5 to 15 grains given from 1 to la- bours after food ; it is recommended in the same maladies as those for which the bromides are prescribed, and has been described as an advantageous substitute for them {e.g. in epilepsy, hysteria, neurasthenia, eclampsia, etc.) ; it contains 29-3 per cent, of bromine and 3-8 per cent, of calcium. Sahli's Haemometer.-A modifica- tion of the hasmoglobinometer of Growers; the standard colour solution for comparison is an acid hrematin solution. Sahli's Reaction. — See Digestive Functions, Tests. Sahli's Test Meal.—A soup, pre- pared according to a definite plan and from fixed amounts of flour, butter, water, and salt; the test depends on the amount of fat which is digested. See Webster, Diagnostic Methods, p. 51, 1909. Sajodin.—A substitute for the alkaline iodides, in which iodine is combined with calcium (26 per cent, of the former and 4'1 per cent, of the latter) and an organic acid; it is recommended in syphilis, in angina pectoris, arterio-sclerosis, asthma, and in joint affections, etc. ; the dose is 8 gr ains, and the drug forms an insoluble white soapy powder. See Fortescue-Brickdale, Neioer Remedies, p. 20, 1910. Salacetol.—A remedy used in acute rheumatism, being the acetol (CH2COCH3) ester, and having the form of a white, in- soluble powder; the dose is from 30 to 45 grains every morning.