338 SKIN DISEASES useful in cases of chilblains, acting both on the chilblains themselves and on the pain and itching which are so often associated. A modification of this method of treatment is the use of a Klapp's cup, which consists of a glass cup like an ordinary cupping-glass con- nected by an indiarubber tube to an indiarubber ball. The cups are of various sizes. Their <;hief use is in the treatment of furuncles and carbuncles. The cup, after having its edge smeared with vaseline, is applied over the boil with one hand, whilst the indiarubber ball is squeezed with the other. The indiarubber ball is slowly allowed to expand till the cup adheres. Considerable suction is thus exerted on the diseased area and a local congestion produced. It causes a marked suction of lymph into the part, thus bringing the bactericidal bodies in the serum into better contact with the germs. If applied early over a threatening boil it often aborts it. After the boil has once formed, it a,cts best after the boil bursts or is incised, causing a much more rapid separation of the core than normal. It should be applied daily in successive short applications of five minutes, with about three minutes' interval between each a,pplication, gives better results than one longer continuous application. The total duration of the applications should be about half an hour. For carbuncles the same method is to be nsed, and is found, besides having a curative effect, to give great relief from pain. It rapidly controls the spread of the process, and when using Klapp's cup no further incision as a rule is necessary and rapid healing takes place after the slough separates. Between the applications the boil or carbuncle is kept dressed with the usual boracic poultice. REFERENCE. — Meyer and Schmieden, Bier's Hypercemic Treatment, 1908. Radium Treatment of Skin Diseases.— Radium therapy is still in its infancy, as the quantities of radium as yet available are so small that comparatively few have been able to use it. The chief diseases in which it has been definitely proved to be useful are carcinoma, lupus, and nsevi. Its use in the first two diseases has already been referred to. Of the pigmented nasvi the flat ones are more amenable to radium than the prominent ones. In vascular nsevi, especially the " port - wine stains," excellent cosmetic results are obtained. The treatment is slow and the duration and frequency of the applications must be determined by experiment with any given sample of radium. Staphylococcal Vaccines in Skin Dis- eases.—In the vaccine therapy of skin diseases no better results have been obtained in any set of diseases than those obtained in staphylococcal infections. Excellent results may be got in carbuncles and boils. As a rule a stock vaccine of staphylococcus aureus or a mixture of aureus and albus does quite well; but occasionally cases are met with which prove rebellious, and it is well in such cases to get a vaccine made from the patients' own organisms. Injections of 250-500 million staphylococci are given every 14-18 days. It is agreed by nearly all that it is not necessary to have the treatment controlled by estimations of the opsonic index. Sycosis is another disease where a suitable vaccine is often very successful. Everyone who has seen much of this disease knows how difficult it is to cure the condition. At the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary very good results have been obtained from vaccine treatment, but it is too soon to form a definite opinion as to the permanency of the cures. Local treatment by antiseptic ointments should of course be carried on in addition to the administration of the vaccine. In acne vulgaris Allen says that the opsonic index to the staphylococcus is consistently below normal, and he recommends the use of a staphylococcal vaccine, beginning with doses of 250 million organisms and increasing up to 750 million, giving injections every 14 to 21 days. As the disease gets better the dose should be gradually diminished and given at longer intervals. As is to be expected, this method of treatment is only beneficial in cases where there is much suppuration, and it has no curative effect on the comedo and other early lesions. REFERENCE. — Allen, Vaccine Therapy and the Opsonic Method of Treatment, 1908. Sleeping' Sickness (see Enci/dopedia and Dictionary of Medicine, Vol. IX. p. 219).— In May 1901 Forde detected in the blood of a man suffering from chronic irregular fever an extra-corpuscular organism, which Dutton identified as a trypanosome, and thus for the first time demonstrated the occur- rence of trypanosome infection in man. The observation was confirmed early in 1902 by Manson, who found a similar organism in a patient suffering from irregular pyrexia con- tracted in the Upper Congo. Dutton had named the parasite Trypanosoma gambiense, and the disease to which it gave rise "Trypano- some fever." In December 1902 Castellani observed the trypanosome in the blood of a sleeping-sickness patient, and in the ensuing year he detected it in the cerebro-spinal fluid of patients suffering from the disease. Dutton and Forde did not associate trypanosomiasis with sleeping sickness, and regarded the organism as a harmless parasite. Manson's patient, referred to above, developed symptoms of sleeping sickness and died in December 1903, and the diagnosis was verified on post-mortem examination by Mott. In March 1903, Colonel Bruce and Dr. Nabarro, subsequently joined