EMBRYOTOMY OR EMBRYULCIA 146 the child. In the same year Knorr (Zeitsch. J". Geburtsh. u. Gtjnak., xxxiv. p. 105, 1896) divided both clavicles with Siebold's scissors after having performed craniotomy; he was much impressed with the immediate effect thus produced, a slight pull sufficing to deliver the trunk. Other contributions to the subject were those of Strassmann {Arch. f. Gynaek., liii. p. 135, 1897), H. A. v. Guerard {Zentralh. f. Gyndk., xxii. p. 71, 1898), E. Bonnaire (Presse med., No. 21, p. 125, 1900), G. Kallinowsky (Diss. inayg. (Berlin), 1898), Rieznikoff {Yuzhno-russk. med. gaz. (Odessa), v. p. 425, 1896), and Perondi {Clui. ostet. (Roma), ii. p. 133, 1900). Ballantyne described a case and gave an account of the operation at a meeting of the Edinburgh Obstetrical Society in 1900 {Trans. Edin. Ohstet. Soc, xxvi. p. 24, 1900- 01); he has repeated the operation several times since then. The indications for cleidotomy can hardly l)e said to be as yet clearly defined. It has not been performed on the living infant, but there are circumstances in which it might be justifi- able to do so, e.g. in the case of monstrosities, such as anencephalus, double terata, etc. It is generally to be carried out as a sequel to the operations of craniotomy, basilysis, and basio- tripsy, but it may be required apart from these procedures. The indications may be roughly grouped under five headings :—(1) It is indi- cated in the case of the broad-shouldered foetus, where the head also is above the average size (and where, therefore, craniotomy will doubt- less have been carried out), or where the head is of normal size or deformed (anencephalus or hydrencephalus), when cleidotomy may be the only operative procedure rendered neces- sary ; (2) it is indicated in cases of contracted maternal pelvis, justo-minor, flatrachitic, or kyphotic, in which the foetus may be normal in size ; in such cases craniotomy is generally performed first and cleidotomy later ; in the first and second types of contraction the division of the clavicles must be done at the brim of the pelvis, and in the third, at the outlet; (3) there is a group of cases in which the foetus is large and the pelvis moderately contracted ; in these instances it is the associa- tion of two difficulties, neither of which is in itself sufficient to cause great delay, which renders cleidotomy necessary ; (4) cleidotomy may be advisable in cases of breech presenta- tion in which the shoulders are impacted ; and (5) in all cases in which rapid delivery is called for (as in eclampsia, threatened uterine rupture, accidental haemorrhage), and in which the foetus is either dead or very little likely to survive. Technique.—The operation of cleidotomy can be carried out very easily. The only instrument necessary is a pair of long and strong blunt-pointed scissors. Craniotomy or basiotripsy has been performed, and the com- minuted head has been drawn down to the perineum by the cranioclast, basilyst-tractor, or crotchet. Delay now occurs, due to the impaction of the shoulders in the contracted brim of the pelvis. By continued traction the difficulty may possibly be overcome at the risk of injury to the maternal structures, and with the loss of valuable time, and the expenditure of much force. To prevent this delay and these dangers, division of one or both clavicles is enough. If the head be lying with the occiput to the front, it is drawn well forward ; the operator then slips his left hand up the vagina over the face of the child till he feels the clavicles projecting from the thoracic wall at the level of the pelvic brim, then he insinuates the scissors, held in the right hand, between his left hand and the child, until he is able to grasp the clavicle of one side between their points, and then with a strong snip he divides the bone near its inner end. The process may be repeated on the clavicle of the opposite side. Munro Kerr {Operative Midvnjh-y, p. 506, 1908) uses straight scissors or a symphysiotomy knife, such as Pinard's. The immediate result is an astonish- ing collapse of the shoulders, and the extraction of the infant's trunk with very little further effort, or, at the most, with the help of traction with a blunt hook upon the axilla. The only case in which Ballantyne met with any diffi- culty was one in which the foetus had a marked degree of ossification of all the bones, and particularly of those of the cranium and shoulder-girdle. If the contraction of the pelvis be at the outlet, the procedure is not materially altered, indeed it is simplified; and in the case of the anencephalic foetus the small size of the head allows the operator's hand easily to reach the infant's clavicles at or above the brim. Advantages. — If we compare cleidotomy with the only other procedures possible under the circumstances, it will become at once apparent that it excels them all. It must, for instance, be better than simple tractioti on the craniotomised head of the infant, with the loss of time, the risk of injury to the mother's parts, and the danger of separation of the head from the trunk of the child, which all accompany that method of trying to overcome the delay. Then cleidotripsy, or the breaking up of the clavicles and the tissues of the shouldeis with a perforator or basilyst, is an awkward procedure, not easy of accomplish- ment ; it is quite unnecessary also, for simple division of the clavicle is all that is needed. Cleidorrhexis is a sort of bruising or breaking of the shoulder-girdle carried out of set purpose, and performed by some obstetricians {e.g. A. Miiller, Monatssch. f. Geburtsh., viii. p. 477, 1898). It is used in cases in which the body