CESAREAN SECTION 81 peritoneal or extra-peritoneal method can be simplified, this range Avill be made still wider. For the obstetrician will then be able to include within the scope of his operating-knife infected cases and cases in which other plans of pro- cedure have been unsuccessfully tried. Cases, also, in which rupture of the uterus is threat- ening may be treated more hopefully by a method which aims at reaching the lower uterine segment extra-peritoneally. Already, however, some voices are being I'aised in protest, at least in deprecation of the wide- spread practice of Csesarean section in Ger- many ; and Pfannenstiel {Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc., li. p. 734, 1908) asks whether it is right that all these operative procedures on the mother should be carried out merely to save a child already in danger from infected liquor amnii. " I believe," Pfannenstiel says, " that our modern attempts to save the child's life shoot beyond the mark." But this cannot be the last word in obsteti'ics, and with a simplification of the Frank-Sellheim operation we may hope to see babies, which are now perforated, saved alive, and their mothers' risks of recovery little if anything increased thereby. Ca.iSSOn Disea.se.—In certain occupa- tions the workers are necessarily exposed to compressed air, and, in consequence, they not infrequently suff"er fi'om symptoms which range from trivial joint pains to rapidly fatal cyanosis and coma. These are directly due to the eff'ects of high atmospheric pressure. The disease was formerly known as " Diver's paralysis," but, since the use of compressed-air chambers—- " caissons" — has become general in sub- aqueous engineering, it is now generally called " Caisson Disease." A caisson is essen- tially a diving bell. Its lower end is open and rests on the sea- or river-bed; in its ceiling there is a sliding-door connected with an air- lock, through which the excavated material is removed, and at one side there is a second air-lock through which the workers enter and leave. Water is prevented from entering the caisson by air pumped into it from above; the surplus air escapes round its lower edge, so that ventilation is secured. When the necessary depth is reached the caisson is filled with cement and becomes the foundation for a pier or similar superstructure. Symptoms.—The characteristic symptoms of caisson disease appear after the worker has left the compressed-air chamber; they are produced by decompression. On entering a compressed- air chamber for the first time some unpleasant symptoms may arise. These are oppression and quickening of the heart-beat, and moi'e especially pain in the ear from the drum being driven inwards. The membrane may rupture and haemorrhage take place in the middle ear. Greenwood and Hill, however, who subjected themselves to pressure up to 92 lbs., found that no real sense of pressure was experienced. The only sensations they experienced were a change in the timbre of the voice, and a feeling of anaesthesia aliout the lips leading to inability to whistle. While working in compressed air the men as a rule suffer no discomfort. Cases of illness occurring actually in the caisson are due to impurity of the air from impei'fect supply, or because sti'ata containing COo oi' HoS are being pierced. Snell brought for\vard the theory that caisson disease was more likely to aiise during the stage of decompression if the air in the caisson was foul. During the construction of Blackwall Tuiniel he found that when the air supplied was 4000 cubic feet per man there were 28 cases of caisson disease in 100 days, but when 12,000 cubic feet were supplied the number of cases fell to zero. Eecent work, however, has failed to substantiate Snell's theory. The symptoms may begin during decom- pression, l)ut are more frequently delayed for some little time. Muscular pains, known as " bends " or " screws " are the most common ; paresis of the legs with retention of the urine, abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting, giddiness, epistaxis, nervousness, and excitement may also occur. Paralysis generally passes off in the course of a few days; it is sometimes per- manent, with signs of myelitis. A rapidly fatal case, quoted by Greenwood, runs as follows :—The patient was a diver who had remained at a depth of 24| fathoms (between 4 and 5 atmospheres) for 40 minutes, and had ascended in half that time. He had no incon- venience during his sojourn in the water, nor for 8 or 9 minutes thereafter, when he suddenly complained of pain in the stomach and then collapsed. He immediately became cyanosed, his breathing was stertorous, and his lips covered with foam. He died within 15 minutes of leaving the water. On post-mortem examina- tion the brain was engorged; many air-bubbles were present in the veins of Galen and in the choroid plexus and superficial cerebral vessels. The veins of the surface of the heart were beaded with air, while the organ felt like a bladder half full of water, and gurgled loudly when pressed upon. On incising the right ventricle air escaped with a pufF. The mesen- teric vessels wei-e likewise filled with air, and the liver frothed on section. Physiology and Pathology of Caisson Disease.—The effects of exposure to com- pressed air were first correctly interpreted by Paul Bert, and have recently been greatly elucidated by the researches of Leonard Hill, Haldane, Greenwood, and Boycott. Bert proved that—(1) increased pressure up to 7 or 8 atmospheres does not produce injurious 6