ECLAMPSIA 129 arresting the eclampsia. Between these two methods, with their relative indications, are the cases calling for the use of the Bossi dilator or other form of cervical distension. Whatever may be the form of operative interference found most suitable in cases of eclampsia, prevention will ever be the most satisfactory method of treatment. Indeed, it may be said that the prevention of eclampsia is the one bright spot in a gloomy sky at the present time. Of course it is difhcult to establish a claim in many cases, for we are met with the objection that in them eclampsia would not have occurred even if no preventive measures had been taken; but every obstetrician of experience must have noticed that cases of albuminuria in pregnancy brought under treat- ment before the onset of labour very often pass through their confinements Avithout eclampsia, and that even if fits occur they are seldom many or severe. It is admitted by all (and it is something to be able to say this in con- nection with eclampsia, in which, as Evans has said {B7-it. Med. Journ., ii. for 1906, p. 120.5), there "is not a drug used nor a procedure employed on theoretical grounds, or as a result of experience, that has not as many enemies as friends ")—it is admitted by all that albuminuria in pregnancy often precedes eclampsia, and that if the former be early recognised and promptly treated the latter can very often, almost always, be prevented ; there is also a consensus of opinion that a rigid milk diet, regular daily evacuation of the bowels, the avoidance of chilling of the surface of the body, and the cautious use of diuretics will act most beneficially on the albuminuria of pregnancy ; and the reasonable conclusions to be drawn are the systematic examination of the urine in pregnancy and the immediate treatment of the patient on the appearance of the slightest trace of albumin therein. To the general practitioner with a large number of midwifery cases these precautions may seem irksome, and in many instances unnecessary, but they form the sound basis of the rational treatment of eclampsia, and he will soon be convinced, if he have to treat some four or five cases of eclampsia, that the time and care spent in carrying out precautionary measures are far less than those needed successfully to manage one single case of convulsions in labour or the puerperium. When in addition to the presence of albumin there is marked diminution in the quantity of urine passed, a fall in the quantity of urea secreted, the presence of tube casts or blood, and a state of high tension of the pulse, it is doubtful whether it is not already too late to prevent the occurrence of eclampsia ; but even thou prophylaxis may accomplish much. To the stcAY of a maternity hospital the prevention of eclampsia is a matter of even greater importance than to the general practitioner. Every maternity hospital ought to have a pre-maternity department or ward or pavilion set apart ex- clusively for the treatment of the diseases of pregnancy (Ballantyne, Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1901, p. 813; i. for 1902, p. 65; Traris. Edin. Obstet. Soc, xxxiii. p. 25, 1907-8 ; Journ. Obstet. and Gynmc. Brit. Emp., xv. pp. 93, 169, 1909), and an out-patient clinique to which pregnant women should be invited to come for purposes of diagnosis, and through which admission to the pre-maternity ward might, if necessary, be obtained. In an editorial pub- lished in the Lancet of 2nd November 1901, the following sentences occurred :—" We are inclined to think that if a correct knowledge of the causation of eclampsia is ever to be arrived at, attention must be directed to the pre-eclamptic stages of the disease. It is an encouraging sign to see that ... a bed is to be endowed and set apart for the study of the diseases of pregnancy in the Royal Maternity Hospital of Edinburgh. We can imagine no more worthy object for philanthropy than the endowment of such beds in some of our large maternity hospitals, where the diseases of pregnancy and of the unborn child could be investigated with all the advantages of modern science." The bed in the above hospital is now a ward, and Ballantyne was able to report that in his quarter in 1908 none of the cases of albuminuria in pregnancy treated in that ward developed eclampsia, and that all the patients (five in number) which were brought into the ward suffering from eclampsia, and which were treated therein for some days before labour supervened, recovered {Journ. Obstet. and Gynmc. Brit. Emp., xv. pp. 98, 104, 1909). In such wards the early indications of the toxaemia of pregnancy could be recognised and treated ; in this way the grave forms of tox- asmia could be almost certainly prevented, or, at any rate, so reduced in virulence as not to pass on into eclampsias. Boxall {Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1905, p. 717) thinks that every maternity hospital ought not only to have a pre-maternity ward but also "a department where women who are able to work either in the house or garden attached to the institution could be kept under observation for two or three months prior to delivery"; but it is possibly too much to expect so radical a change to occur, and so increased a responsibility to be undertaken by maternity charities in the near future. It may be said, in conclusion, that the most hopeful aspect of eclampsia at present is undoubtedly prevention ; the tox- aemia of gestation need not occur in a grave form in a well-watched pregnancy, and even if it occur it can nearly always be prevented from culminating in eclampsia if suitable dietetic and therapeutic means be employed early and energetically. Until such time as a certain means of checking and curing eclampsia be 9