249 LUNGS AND THORAX, SURGERY OF THE dangerous in cases of infection of the pleural cavity. One or two ribs are resected above and below the incision, so as to allow the lung to be drawn through the wound and fixed to the chest wall by sutures. Six dogs were dealt with thus, but only one lived long enough (to the third day) to allow of removal of the transplanted lung. These experiments have a practical bearing on human surgery. Removal of a large part of a lung can only succeed when the cavity resulting diminishes in size as soon as possible to avoid a transudate. Negative pressure ap- paratus is to be preferred to positive pressure. Reduction in the size of the cavity by thoraco- plasty should be limited to the removal of a few i"ibs, unless the mediastinum is immobile, when it may be more extensive. Suturing the bronchus to the chest wall must be done in such a way that tearing of the mediastinum is avoided. The Surgery of the Thorax was discussed at the German Surgical Congress in 1908 {Ze7i- tralhl f. Chir., 29th Aug. 1908). Kiittner recorded 18 operations, all under differential atmospheric pressure. These included tumours of the thoracic wall, bullet wounds of the lung, and primary malignant disease of the lung. The differential pressure prevents collapse of the lung, and facilitates the detection and suture of wounds of the organ. Sauerbruch reported the disappearance of genei'alised surgical emphy- sema in his cabinet after an incision had been made in the skin. In cases of cancer of the lung the prospect of surgical relief is very small. Surgical intervention has been attempted in a number of different pulmonary diseases, but so far it cannot be said to have justified itself as a routine practice, and at present remains largely in the experimental stage. Pulmonary Embolism.—Trendelenburg has operated on several cases (Zentralbl. f. Chir- urgie, 29th Aug. 1908; Deuts. med. Woch., 2nd July 1908) of pulmonary embolism, and cases have also been reported by Sievers {Zeitsch. f. Chirurgie, May 1908) and Riedel (Zentralbl. f. Chir., 22nd May 1909). None of the patients have recovered, and Trendelen- burg urges that it is only to be undertaken as a dernier ressort. The method he advises is an incision over the second left costal cartilage, and another at right angles to this, allowing two flaps to be lifted. The second costal carti- lage is removed, the pericardium opened, and the great vessels surrounded by an elastic liga- ture. The pulmonary artery is then opened and the clot aspirated ; the opening is tempor- arily closed with forceps (the constricting band being removed meanwhile) and then sutured. Trendelenburg's first patient died during the operation of haemorrhage, caused by laceration of the vessel wall by the ligature. His second patient, from whom a clot several inches long was removed, survived for 37 hours. Sievers' patient died 15 hours after the operation of heart failure. Riedel's case was the most promising as regards future possibilities. The patient was a woman, aged 32, who, after an operation for hernia, developed symptoms of pulmonary embolus. Operation was begun about 25 minutes after the onset. The second, third, and fourth costal cartilages were divided and the border of the left lung clamped to the edge of the wound with forceps. The peri- cardium was opened and a rubber tube was passed round it on a curved director, and then tied. The artery was then opened between forceps, and a clot about the size of the finger removed. The operation was interrupted twice by the heart ceasing to beat, which necessitated the temporary closure of the arterial wound with forceps, the slackening of the constricting rubber band, and massage of the heart to restore the circulation. Some difficulty was experi- enced in suturing the pulmonary artery. The operation lasted an hour. The patient did well until the fourth day, Avhen the r'espiration became embarrassed, and some dulness was detected at the left base. Next day about 15 oz. of dark blood-stained fluid were removed from the left pleura, and again on the sixth day. The patient died the same evening. On post-mortem, the thoracic wourrd was found to be infected, and there was a quantity of pus and blood irr the pleura. The incision in the artery was intact. Death was due to wound irrfectiorr, attributed to the haste with which the preparations for the operation were made. Fidinonary Tuberctdosis.—Bonney (^Pulmon- ary Tubemdosis, 2nd editiorr, London, 1910) devotes a chapter to surgical procedures in this disease. Drainage of pulmonary cavities has not beerr productive of good results, rror has the injection of various substances directly into the lung been particularly gratifying either to surgeon or patient. Notwithstanding the interest Avhich attaches to the work of Mur-phy, Brauer, and others on the production of artificial pneumothorax so as to exert any desired degree of compression of the lung, the application of this principle (though method is based on one of the rarer of Nature's methods of favouring the cure of tuberculosis) has been found in practice more or less unsatisfactory. The objections are (1) the frequent existence of adhesions ; (2) the fact that suitable eases belong to a class in which the prospect of cure by non-surgical means is good; (3) the impossibility of gauging the amount of compression which ought to be employed; and (4) the inevitable risk of opera- tion. Bonney thinks that recourse may be had to operation in a few carefully selected cases. The measures which deserve consideration ar-e (1) rib-resection and compression over the site of large pulmonary cavities and gangrenous areas; (2) chondrotomy of the first rib in