SURGERY, is finished. The drum recommended by Scot- Skirving {'frans. Med.-Chir. Soc. Edin., xxiv. p. 17, 1905) has an inner wire cage, an interval of \ inch being left between it and the drum, and thus dressings in the cage are everywhere in contact with the steam; the holes are closed by simply pushing home the tightly- fitting lid. Canvas covers are put on the drums when taken out of the steriliser, and they can thus be carried to a private operation or the like. In the Kny-Scheerer the boiler is horizontal and is supported on a stand. It is usually made of brass polished or of brass nickelled and polished. It is somewhat com- plicated, and is also, of course, expensive; but many surgeons prefer it, and it is in daily use in many hospitals. The cylindrical chamber in which the drums (containing the dressings) are put is surrounded by a steam-jacket, and is closed by a tightly-fitting door, and it is important that the door should be opened or shut with as few movements as possible, otherwise the person opening it may have his hands scalded by the escaping steam; the " New Type " Kny-Scheerer has such a simple apparatus. The heat is conveniently obtained by gas, and there are stop-cocks opening into the steam-jacket and into the central chamber ; there are also pressure gauges and a safety-valve. After the heat has been applied the stop-cock communicating with the steam-jacket and the outer air is opened and the air and steam are driven out; the stop-cock is closed as soon as the steam is issuing freely, when immediately the pressure in the jacket and in the sterilising chamber begins to rise and the sterilisation of the dressings goes on ; after twenty minutes or longer the stop-cock between the steam-jacket and the central chamber is shut, and that between the latter and the outer air opened, when the articles which have been sterilised are dried by the heat of the steam-jacket. The drums, which may be similar to those used in the Schimmelbusch, are then taken out, the holes in them are closed, and the dressings in them are ready for use when needed. There is also a Kny-Scheerer steri- liser for preparing sterilised ivater, so much used in aseptic surgery nowadays; it is made in different sizes to sterilise a greater or smaller number of gallons. There are also very large sterilisers for disinfecting clothes and bedding by steam. From what has been said it will be evident that the preparations for a modern aseptic operation are elaborate, and that the necessary apparatus, in the case of hospitals and operating homes at any rate, is expensive. " Surmenag^e."—The state of over- strain or exhaustion as the result of work, " fatigue" being the name given to the ordinary physiological result. ASEPSIS IN 355 Symbiosis.—See Pregnancy, Physio- logy OF. Symphysiotomy and Pubio- tomy. Indications 355 Method 356 Siibcutaneous ..... 356 Hebotomy or Pubiotomy . . . 357 Methods 357 Prophylactic Operation . . . 358 Of late years much has been heard of symphysi- otomy and allied procedures in cases of con- tracted pelvis; buteven a superficial examination of the great mass of literature which has grown up round the subject will reveal the fact that it is mainly Continental, and only to a small extent British or American. There have been symphysiotomists, both in G-reat Britain and in America, and some of them (e.g. Herman, Munro Kerr, and Buist) have been able to report numbers of successful cases with no maternal mortality ; the subject of pelvic section, also, has been debated, often and thoroughly, both in the medical and obstetrical societies of this country and of the United States; but, whilst all this is true, it cannot be said that the operation itself has assumed the importance given to it in France, Italy, and Germany, and it must be freely admitted that at present it is losing and not gaining ground. Possibly this is in part at least to l)e explained by the dislike to the induction of premature labour which our Continental brethren seem to have; and no doubt it is largely to be accounted for by the repugnance to cutting operations in midwifery exhibited by both the profession and the public in this country. That there is a very sharp line of cleavage between Continental and British obstetric prac- tice in respect to symphysiotomy, hebotomy, and pubiotomy may be learned from the stixdy of what Professor Schauta (Joiirn. Obstet. and Gyntec. Brit. Emp., xv. p. 318, 1909) has said regarding the management of labour in a con- tracted pelvis, although pei'haps we ought to regard his views as those of the more extreme German school. Schauta is of opinion that " the management of labour in contracted pelvis will shape itself in the future in the following simple manner, provided it is carried out from the very commencement in a skilful manner and in an institution under strict asepsis. In cases with a conjugate above 8 cm. there is a possibility of spontaneous birth, and therefore expectant treatment is to be adopted. In cases under 8 cm. Csesarean section is to be kept in view. In cases border- ing on the above, that is a conjugate of 8-|- to 71 cm., hebosteotomy is to be considered. . . . This method of treatment should be