LABOUR: POSTPARTUM HEMORRHAGE 235 Labour: Post-partum Haemor- rhage. Causation 235 Treatment 235 Reference has already been made to recent advances in the treatment of placenta prsevia and accidental haemorrhage (see Accouche- ment Fonci. and CESAREAN Section) ; but there is another condition associated with labour in which bleeding is the prominent symptom, viz. post-partum haemorrhage, and to that dangerous complication of childbirth it is necessary to direct attention. Causation.—It is generally admitted that the commonest cause of post-partum htemor- rhage (including under that term not only the bleeding which occurs after the completion of the parturient process (true post partum haemor- rhage), but also that which takes place before the expulsion or removal of the placenta (third- stage haemorrhage)), is a relaxed condition of the uterus. At the same time it is necessary to remember that other causes may be at work. The bleeding, for instance, may be due to lacerations or tears of various structures in the genital tract from the cervix to the vulva. In such a case the bleeding begins soon after the birth of the child and continues, unaffected by the state of conti'action, retraction, or relaxa- tion of the uterus ; indeed, one should always look for a laceration when there is post-partum bleeding with a firmly contracted uterus. Cer- vical and perineal tears are common causes, and the former may be associated with con- siderable danger if they extend into the vagi- nal roof; but there are also the less frequent vaginal and vulvar lacerations to be taken into account. Vaginal tears of considerable gravity may be met with in labours following upon such operations as colporrhaphy (anterior and posterior) and colpo-perineorrhaphy; for gyne- cologists are prone to constrict the A'aginal canal to a high degree in order thoroughly to prevent the descent or backward displacement of the uterus, forgetting in their zeal to obtain a good gynecological resultthat a subsequent pregnancy and labour may take place, and that an infant with head diameters of four inches or thereby may have to pass through the constricted canal. Vulvar lacerations also may be the cause of considerable bleeding, those in the neighbour- hood of the clitoris being specially troublesome; occasionally such cases have had a fatal ending, as in that reported by Kossow-Gerronay ( Wien. klin. Woche7isch., xviii. p. 1334, 1905). Treatment.—The treatment of post-partum haemorrhage due to lacerations at any level in the cervico-vulvar tract should be immediate repair of the tear. In slight cases hot vaginal douches or the temporary application of pressure- forceps or of plugs may suffice, but immediate suturing gives the best results, preventing, as it generally does, both sepsis and subsequent cicatrisation. Difficulty, however, may arise in connection with cervical lacerations which invade the vaginal roof and open into the para- metrium, producing a deep cavity ; under these circumstances the pulling down of the cervix and the closure of the cervico-vaginal wound may leave the bleeding in the parametrium unchecked, and even plugging of the large parametric cavity may be insufficient. In such an emergency Fritsch (Deutsche nied. Wochenseh., XXX. p. 19, 1904) recommends the application of double pressure : he first expresses the placenta ; then, with the right hand, he presses the ante- flexed uterus deeply down into the pelvis ; at the same time, with his left hand, he pushes the labia majora upwards towards the sacral promontory ; in this way pressure is applied on both aspects of the peh ic floor, and the bleeding in the parametrium is checked. The pressure may have to be kept up for half an hour or longer. The proper treatment of the common form of jjost-partum haemorrhage, that due to relaxa- tion of the uterus, has generally been regarded as fairly well established and fixed. Teachers and practitioners of obstetrics, as well as most text-books of midwifery, have emphasised the importance of applying pressure to the uterus by the hands, and of thus checking bleeding by causing uterine contraction, and by favouring the supervention of uterine retraction. It is true that some writers of text-books, in their desire to name all the means of treatment which may prove beneficial in the various degrees and varieties of post-partum bleeding, have enumerated so many plans of procedure (hot douches, hypodermic injections of ergotin, bandaging the limbs, injection of saline per rectum or under the breasts, plugging the uterus, administration of stimulants, etc., etc.) that no single doctor, even when aided by a reliable nurse, could possibly hope to put them all into operation and continue to grasp the uterus with both hands; but it is doubtful whether anyone was misled by these state- ments in text-books into trying to perform impossibilities. It may be regarded as prob- able that the medical practitioner, in the presence of post-partum haemorrhage, grasped the uterus through the abdominal walls, and by exercising pressure and massage succeeded in producing, first contraction and later retrac- tion, of the organ ; after some minutes he was able to give directions to the nurse to prepare other means of treatment, and he was himself able in a little while to apply some of them, or, at least, immediately to superintend their application ; but he relied chiefly upon the hold which he had of the uterus, and the general experience of the profession was that he did not rely in vain. Within the past few years.