210 INOSCOPY (to enclose the bacilli in the iibrinous network), then the coagulum is washed and treated with a mixture (containing pepsin, sodium fluoride, glycerine, etc.) to digest the fibrin ; twenty- four hours' stay in the incubator makes the fluid homogeneous, and it is then centrifuged and smears made from the sediment; the smears are fixed in the flame and stained with carbol fuchsin. See Webster, Diagnostic Methods, p. 585, 1909. Intermediate Body.—A synonym of amboceptor or immune body. See Immunity. Intermenstrual Fever.—&e Men- struation, Morbid. Intermenstrual Pain.—-S'ee Men- struation, Morbid. Intermittent Claudication.—'S'ee Arterio-Sclerosis. Internal Secretions.—»S'ee Hor MONES. Intestines, Surgrery of the. Enterorrhaphy for Injuries . .210 Methods 210 Various Sutures . . . .210 Intestinal Anastomosis . . .211 End-to-end Method . . . .211 By Sutures . . . . .211 By Miirphy Button . . . .212 Side-to-side Method . . . .212 End-to-side Method . . . .212 Enteric Exclusion . . . .212 Unilateral or Bilateral . . .212 Enterotomy 213 The intestines may come into the province of the surgeon either on account of morbid con- ditions arising in themselves, or because they have been injured in the performance of opera- tions upon other abdominal or pelvic viscera. The latter conditions may be considered first. Intestinal Injuries.—If the intestine has been injured during the performance of an abdominal section {e.g. an ovariotomy or an operation on the liver or stomach), the wounded part should at once be brought outside the abdomen and surrounded with sterile gauze, or if this be impracticable, it should be surrounded with gauze pledgets in situ. The injury should then be repaired in one or other of the ways to be described immediately, the bowel should be cleansed with pledgets soaked in normal saline solution, and the part returned to the abdominal cavity (if it has been dealt with outside). Of course, if fsecal matter has escaped into the peritoneal cavity, that also must be removed by swabbing or by irrigation (but preferably by the formei') before the main operation can be resumed. The mode of repair {enterorrhaphy) will depend upon the nature and extent of the injury, as well as to some extent upon the part of the bowel affected. For instance, a small longitudinal tear is easily dealt with: the affected portion of the bowel is emptied of its contents by stripping it on each side of the opening; then two clamps are put on to prevent faeces making their way into it again (Murphy's intes- tinal clamps, or the clamps of Doyen or Makins may be used, but for a small wound the fingers of an intelligent assistant will suffice as clamps); next the edges of the tear are approximated by sutures. Fine silk is strongly recommended, although some surgeons use catgut and others linen thread. If the injury involve only the muscular and peritoneal coats it can be satis- factorily closed with a continuous Lembert (or Dupuytren) suture; but if the lumen of the bowel be opened into, or if the tear be a long one, it will be Avise to close it with a double row of sutures. The edges are approximated and the peritoneal surfaces invaginated hy a row of interrupted Lembert sutures; these are tied and cut short, and then by means of a continuous Lembert suture (or Dupuytren's suture) the first tier of sutures is completely buried. As seen from the inside of the bowel, the repaired wound shows a longitudinal projecting ridge. The latter mode of suturing is also emploj'ed for transverse wounds of the bowel, unless they are extensive, when another plan altogether (end-to-end anastomosis) will be rendered necessary. The same principle of closing the opening applies in irregular wounds and in those involving a comparatively small loss of tissue {e.g. small necrotic areas). The Lembert suture is carried out as follows :—The silk, held in a curved needle, is passed across the line of the wound; it is introduced through a fold of the wall picked up on one side of the tear (about ^tb inch distant from it) and carried over to a corresponding fold on the opposite side ; the amount of tissue involved is the serous coat and the muscular one, but not the mucous ; by drawing the two ends of the suture together the margins of the wound are now turned in and peritoneum brought into contact with peri- toneum ; about ten sutures to the inch should be inserted to secure safety ; and none should be tied till all have been passed. Such is the ordinary Lembert suture; but occasionally the continuous Leml^ert (or, more accurately, the Dupuytren suture) may be employed ; in this case the operator begins by transfixing the sound tissue beyond the end of the tear and ties a double knot there ; then he picks up a fold on the one side of the wound, transfixes it, and passes obliquely across to do the same to a fold on the opposite side, then back again obliquely, and so on till the whole wound is drawn together; the suture is then made taut, and the second last suture is firmly knotted to the end of the