ECTOPIC PREGNANCY 144 per vaginam. Both these methods, however, entail a long convalescence (Malcolm, Journ. Ohstet. and Gyncec. Brit. Emp., iv. p. 435, 1903). The worst cases are those in which the gesta- tion sac is widely adherent to omentum, intes- tines, and even to the liver; then packing with gauze and marsupialisation of the sac is often the only possible treatment. It must also be borne in mind that the friable nature of the sac sometimes makes marsupialisation very diilicult; this is specially true of the tubo-abdominal gestations in which the sac is made up of nothing more than amnion. There are, therefore, several details in the technique of ectopic gestation operations which must in the meantime be left undecided, but the growing experience of gynecologists will gradually reduce speculation to order and give certain rules where at present there are only tentative recommendations. Of one thing the opei'ator may be certain — that the most hopeless-looking cases are capable in the hands of a skilled gynecologist of successful manage- ment. Take, for instance, Diiderlein's remark- able record: he operated for tubal gestation ; in three days the incision gave way during an attack of coughing and intestine was prolapsed, and he had to reopen the wound and replace the bowel ; then signs of strangulation ap- peared, and for a third time he opened into the abdominal cavity to separate adhesions; and yet the patient recovered {Zentralb. f. Gyndk., xxix. p. 528, 1905). There is a great literature on the subject of the treatment of ectopic pregnancy. For the ordinary reader the articles in Allbutt's System of Gyntecoloyy (2nd ed., p. 635, 1906), and in Munro Kerr's Operative Midwifery (p. 566, 1908) will be found of great value ; while the JouT'hal of Obstetrics and Gymfcology of the British Empire has since 1902 furnished the specialist with carefully made summaries of important articles, British and foreign. EctOtOXinS.—Toxins which diffuse out of bacteria, e.g. those of diphtheria and tetanus. Edestin.—A globulin, insoluble in pure water but soluble in neutral solutions of strong bases with strong acids ; it is derived from the seeds of sunflower, hemp, castor-oil bean, etc. Eg^mol.—A proprietary preparation, de- scribed as an emulsion, containing 40 per cent, of olive oil, with fresh eggs and flavoured with French brandy, and recommended as a sub- stitute for cod-liver oil for those to whom the oil is repugnant. Ehrlich - Hata Remedy. — Also known as " six hundred and six" (606) and arsenobenzol. See Syphilis {Treatment). Eichhorst's Corpuscle.—A form of red-blood corpuscle of the microcyte variety, deeply coloured, highly refractile, usually spherical in shape, and about 3 micros in diameter; it is met with in severe anasmia of any kind, including pernicious anaemia, but is not pathognomonic of the last-named disease. Einhorn's Test.—See Digestive Func- tions, Tests for. Elastoid Degeneration.—Vitreous degeneration of elastic tissue, as seen in the arteries in the wall of the involuting uterus; in this situation the internal elastic lamina swells greatly, forming a broad hyaline band which at first stains like elastic tissue (with Weigert's stain), and later loses this reaction and becomes folded on itself, and the tissues outside this layer make their way through it and develop a new media and adventitia within it (Goodall, Studies Royal Victoria Hasp., Montreal, ii., No. 5, 1910). Electricity (High Frequency Currents) in Skin Diseases.—High frequency currents have been tried in the treat- ment of various skin eruptions. The current is applied from a glass or wire-brush electrode. It has no specific action, being merely stimulating to the tissues, and therefore is sometimes useful in obstinate cases of eczema, especially the form associated with lichenification. It has also been used in acne, lupus, and sycosis. REFERENCE.—Lewis Jones, Medical Electricity, 1904. Electric Sparking.—See Fulguka- TION. Electro-Coagulation. — See Dia- thermy. Electrometer, Lippmann's.—<S'ee Heart, Diseases of {Electro-cardiagrams). Electrosols.—See Drugs, Recent {Col- loidal Metals). Electrotherapy.—The treatment of disease by electricity, by X-rays, radium, ions, etc. For recent progress see several papers and leading article in the British Medical Journal, vol. ii. for 1910, pp. 512-560. See also Dia- thermy. Embryocardia.—An anomalous condi- tion in which the sounds heard over the heart of the child or adult resemble those of the foetus as regards rate, and the fact that the first and second sounds are almost identical ; and it is met with in cardiac dilatation and weakness (pneumonia, typhoid fever, etc.). A. Morison