202 IMMUNITY As regards the relative A-alue of the tests, it is not easy to compare the statistics of different writers, but it seems certain that both the subcutaneous injection, and the cutaneous inocuhxtion of tuberculin are more delicate than the oculo-reaction. They may reveal latent or obsolete tubercle in persons clinically healthy. This is less likely to occur with the oculo-reaction, which is practically, therefore, the most useful of the three. Relation of the Intensity of the Reaction to the Severity of the Disease.—As has been said, advanced cases give no lesponse, and on the whole the intensity of the reaction is inversely proportionate to the grade of infection. Wollf- Eisner distinguishes between marked, mild, and delayed cuti-rcactions, associating the first with mild and incipient tuljerculosis, the second with advanced cases, and the third with the absence of clinical tuberculosis. Danger to the Eye in the Oodo-Reaction.— That a certain risk attaches to the conjunctival test cannot be disputed. It is greatest when strong solutions are employed, and many of the reports of disaster come from Germany, where a 10 per cent, solution was originally advocated. Before the test is applied, the eye should be carefully examined, and the test should only be proceeded with if the eye apiJears perfectly healthy and free from any evideyice of previous disease. In old people, and iii scrofodoiis children special care is required, and the Uihercidin should not he used stronger thati \-\ per cent. Patients from trachoma districts should not be subjected to the Calmette test. The test is also useless if a diagnostic injection of tuberculin has been given within the previous six months. It is probably a wise precaution to irrigate the conjunctival sac with sterile saline solution before applying the test. The ensuing conjunctivitis should be treated with boric lotion, and the application of a mild antiseptic ointment (Hydryrg. amnion, gi's. v. ad ^i.) to the edges of the lids. In view of the fact that a sharp attack of conjunctivitis may follow, the test is not suitable for out- patient and dispensary practice, unless effective supervision can be carried out. The permission of the patient should be obtained before the test is applied. Reapplication of the Tests.—In connection with the subcutaneous injection of tuberculin the increasing sensitiveness of the patient with each dose was referred to. In the oculo- reaction the same occurs. Second instillations into the same eye sometimes provoke reactions in persons who have failed to respond to the first test. The diagnostic meaning of these second reactions is doubtful ; they may occur in healthy as well as tuberculous persons. The supersensitiveness, however, is probably local, hence if a second test be thought advisable the tuberculin should be dropped into the opposite eye. It is claimed that where this is done a reaction can be obtained in a ceitain propor- tion of tuberculous patients who previously gave no response to the test. It has been found impi'acticable to differ- entiate between infections with the bovine and human bacillus by the use of bovine and human tuberculin. Attempts to adapt the cutaneous and oculo- reaction s to the diagnosis of typhoid fever have also failed. Mallein applied in this way is said to give reliable results in cases of glanders in man. Therapeutic Use of Bactericidal Serums. The fact that for bactericidal serums to act complement is essential, is fundamentally im- portant. Let us suppose, for the sake of ai'gument, that by inoculation we can greatly increase the amount of amboceptors, and that we can inject these into the body of a person invaded by the organism in question, we have still to face the fact that (beyond the small quantity which the immune serum contains)' there is no more complement than before, and that the amboceptors are only available for the destruction of bacteria in so far as they can be complemented. There is also some reason to believe that excess of amboceptors over avail- able complement is harmful. For under these conditions some of the amboceptors may be anchored to bacteria, and others to complement, whereupon the only way in which the available complement can come into relation with bacteria is by amboceptor uniting to ambo- ceptor, and this is impossible. So far, it has not proved practically possible to increase complement. For one thing, little is known about complements, and the search for a suitable one has been largely at random. Again, to inject complement may simply result in the formation of anti-complement, which will neutralise what already exists. Anti- bacterial serums originally contain the com- plement of the species from which they were derived, but complement is an unstable body and liable to disappear through lapse of time. It does not follow that the complement present in man will be able to link itself to the ambo- ceptors injected ; these, therefore, may prove useless. The whole question of complementing anti-bacterial serums seems to be a crucial point in their future usefulness. LITERATURE. — The literature of immunity is enormous, and only a few of the chief sources can be given. Current literature is recorded in Baumgarten's Jahresbericht.—Koch and Flugge, Zeitsch. f. Hygiene u. Infections; Central}), f. Bakteriologie u. Parasiten- kunde. The bibliography in MuiR and Ritchie's Manual of Bacteriology, 4th ed. (Edin.), 1907, and the list of references in Ritchie's article on "infection" in Cui'FORi) Allbutt's System of Medicine, vol. ii., 2nd ed. (Lond.), 1906, should be consulted :—OpsoNlNES— Wright and Douglas, Proc. Royal Soc, Ixxii. p. 357,