331 "SAUERIN Metchnikoft" Bulgarian bacillus (Bacillus of Massol)." Sauerin Liquid Culture.—A pure active cultui'e of the Metchnikoff Bulgarian bacillus for souring the milk in the soured- milk treatment. See Report in Lancet, i. for 1910, p. 1545. " Sa,xin."—A sweetening agent, described as " about 600 times sweeter than sugar," recommended in gout, diabetes, obesity, etc. Scaphoid Scapula.—A malforma- tion of the scapula, in which the vertebral border of that bone below the scapular spine is more or less concave ; it is apt to be associated with the early development of arterio-sclerosis, and with other anomalies which, according to W. W. Graves {Interstate Med. Journ., xviii. p. 109, 1911), constitute a scaphoid scapula syndrome with syphilis in the parents as one of its causal agents. Scherer's Method.— A quantitative test for albumin in urine, the precipitate (got by acetic acid and boiling) being weighed. See "Webster, Diagnostic Methods, p. 257, 1909. Scherer's Test.—A test for leucin in urine, applied to the solid residue obtained by concentration; the residue is evaporated with concentrated nitric acid, when, if leucin be present, a yellowish residue is found, Avhich, when heated with a few drops of sodium hydrate solution, causes a j^ellowish or brown colour. See Webster, Diagnostic Methods, p. 329, 1909. Schimmel's Needles.—>S'e€ An.^s- THESIA AND ANiESTHETICS {Regio7ial). SCh latter'S Disease. —Enlargement or malformation of the tuberosity or tubercle of the tibia, which usually comes under observation as the result of overstrain {e.g. in football), and can be recognised by the use of the Rontgen rays. Schldsser's Method.—A plan of treating tic-doloureux by injecting alcohol into foramina of exit (ovale and rotundum) of the branches of the (fifth) trigeminal nerve. See Treves and Hutchinson's Surgery, ii. p. 75, 1910. Schmidt's Test Diet.—*S'ee Diges TiVE Functions, Tests for {Schmidt's). School Clinics.—The inspection and treatment of children for school complaints (short - sight, squinting, ear disease, skin diseases, etc.) at the school or at some centre convenient thereto by a qualified medical officer. School, Open-Air.—See Open-Air School. Schug^ner's Granules.—Basophile particles which appear in the gamete of the parasite of malaria during its development; also called Plehn's karyochromatophilic granules. Schultze's Granular Cells.—A name given to the polymorphonuclear neu- trophile leucocytes of the blood; they are sometimes called the finely granular cells of Schultze to distinguish them from the poly- morphonuclear eosinophiles which are termed the coarsely granular cells of Schultze. Sclero-proteins. — Simple proteins resembling the gliadins in chemical structure ; they are the chief organic constituents of the skeletal structures and connective tissues and of the external coats of animals. Scotomagrraph.—An appliance in- troduced by J. H. Tomlinson for mapping out blind or anaesthetic areas of the retina and automatically recording the result. See Brit. Med. Journal, ii. for 1909, p. 985. "Screws."—'S'ee Caisson Disease. Sebelien's Method.—A method for determining the total protein in milk; a saturated sodium chloride solution and Almen's tannic acid solution are used; the fat is separated from the precipitate and the nitrogen determined. See Webster, Diagnostic Methods, p. 605, 1909. Secretin. — See Digestion {Pancreatic Secretion). Sedimentation.—The process which allows or compels the settling down of sedi- ment in such a fluid as urine ; the methods in common use are letting the urine stand for some hours and the employment of the cen- trifuge. See also SpENGLER's MeTHOD. Sedimentum Lateritium.—The brick-dust deposit of urine, consisting chiefly of acid urate of sodium (C5H3]SraN403). Seg:res:ation, Law of. — In the Mendelian theory this law means the sifting out of unit-characters in the plants of combined generations in the Mendelian ratio, 1:2:1; Mendel explains this law on the theory of gametic segregation and combination according to the law of chance.