PSYCHO-THERAPY AND PSYCHO-ANALYSIS 314 to be sought for and distinguished from predisposing and exciting factors ; thus the specific cause of general paralysis is maintained to be syphilis and the subordinate factors to be heredity, alcoholism, mental strain, etc.; in the same way Freud thinks the specific cause of the neuroses is a disturbance of the sexual function. This generalisation leads on to a new classification of the neuroses, and there are two groups—the "actual neuroses" and the " psycho-neuroses"; in the former the indi- vidual symptoms cannot be further reduced and explained by any form of psychological analysis, whilst in the latter they can be so reduced and shown to be the last links in a long chain of mental processes. There are two "actual neuroses," viz. neurasthenia and the "anxiety-neurosis." Now there is neuras- thenia and neurasthenia, and many of the so-called cases are really toxic {e.g. post- influenzal) or are instances of dementia prfecox, or of anxiety-neurosis, or of hysteria; still, there remain some cases which are to be regarded as true neurasthenia, i.e. a condition with pure fatigue, sense of pressure on the head, irritable spine, flatulent dyspepsia, and constipation. True neurasthenia, according to Freud, is to be ascribed definitely to mas- turbation ; " the specific cause is the inordinate repetition of some form of auto-erotic activity, of an unsatisfactory nature, which occurs in spite of a painful mental conflict," and so the psychical enei-gy of the individual is i^nduly taxed. The "anxiety-neurosis" is character- ised in an acute attack by intense dread of something, by a feeling of congestion in the head, by rapid heart's action, by nausea, free flow of urine, asthmatic seizures, and night- mare ; in a masked form it appears as vertigo, palpitation, an imperative desire to micturate or defsecate, sweating, etc., and a less marked degree of anxiety. Anything of a terrifying nature may be the apparent cause of it {e.g. a thunderstorm, the dark, snakes, etc.), but, according to Freud, it is the result of " sexual excitation occurring under circumstances in which the mental constituent (desire) is not allowed to reach consciousness " {e.g. preventive measures in connection with sexual commerce, etc.), and thus "moibid dread is sexual desire that the person does not wish to feel." The second group contains the psycho- neuroses, including the classical hysteria (" conversion-hysteria" of Freud), " anxiety- hysteria" (the commonest type), and the "compulsion-neurosis" (seen most commonly in the obsessions). In all these we are to suppose that the symptoms result from the " activity of certain unconscious mental processes, that is, of processes which the patient is unable spontaneously to recall to memory." It is this activity that produces the sense of discontinuity in the patient's mental life : obsessive thoughts, causeless fears, unexpected outbursts of anger arise and seem to have no source of origin. The explanation, however, is to be sought in the theory that one part only of such a life is conscious, and that the other part, equally important, is unconscious. The unconscious mental pro- cesses are the cause of the apparent discon- tinuity of the life; they are the unseen factors in the production of the unexpected acts, just as the coral insect and volcanic action bring to the surface some of the islands of the Pacific. Freud explains that they have been made unconscious by a defensive act on the part of the patient himself or herself. "They concern memories which the patient wishes tO' forget, and cannot bear to recall, from which the patient has striven to get away; they are disagreeable to him for reasons such as shame, disgust, conscience, and so on." They always represent a " striving, a tendency, or most simply expressed, a wish," and their forcible keeping under the surface is termed " repres- sion." This view, of course, is opposed to the current notion that sudden grief, mental shocks, and the like are the causal agents in the production of hysterical symptoms ; in its place we have this theory of mental conflict. " The symptoms arise as the result of a conflict between two forces, one of which is a wish that is striving to realise itself consciously, the other of which is an effort to keep back all knowledge of this wish, to ' repress' it. Neither of these forces is entirely successful, and the result is a compromise, which, clinically, is called a symptom. The repressed wish comes to fulfilment in the patient's unconscious fantasy, but is not admitted to external expression until it has been distorted by the- repressing action of the opposite force, which is termed the endopsychic censor. We can therefore formulate the general statement that every psycho-neurotic symptom is the disguised manifestation of a repressed wish-fulfilment. Neither force altogether succeeds, or altogether fails. The wish is not expressed in its native form, but undergoes distortion ; and the censor fails to achieve its object of preventing the wish from reaching consciousness, but succeeds in preventing the significance of this form being recognised." AVith regard to the nature of the underlying forces, the wishes which the patient tries to repress, Freud is of opinion that they are in every case of a sexual nature (using "sexual" in the wide sense and not as equivalent to sensual) ; thus the somewhat startling view-point is reached that all the symptoms in these true psycho-neuroses repre- sent a perverse form of unconscious sexual gratification. This is a conclusion which cannot be expected to be accepted without controversy, especially when it is accompanied by the further statement that any one