THYRESOL 368 ThyreSOl.—A proprietary preparation, being a methyl ether of santalol, constituting a colourless liquid, insoluble in water, but soluble in alcohol; it is stated to be non-toxic as compared with sandalwood oil and santalol, for it contains no free hydroxyl groups; further, it has no disagreealale odour; it is recommended (in doses of 5 to 10 minims in capsules or tablets) as an internal antiseptic in gonorrhoea, cystitis, urethritis, etc. ; it is fa^'ourably I'eported on by E. Levin {Deutsche med. Woch7ischr., xxxv. p. 1356, 1909) and others. See Lancet, ii. for 1909, p. 788; Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1910, p. 209. Thyroidectin.—See Graves's Disease {Treatment). Thyroid, Surg^ery of.—The Mayos, of Rochester, U.S.A., have contributed several important papers embodying the results of their experience in the surgical treatment of goitre {Surgery, Gyncecology, and Obstetrics, March, June, 1909; Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc., •26th January 1907). The chief points of in- terest concern the question of operation for exophthalmic goitre, or as the Mayos prefer to call it, hyperthyroidism ; and secondly, the technic of operations on the thyroid gland. Hyperthyroidism.—In a series of 1000 goitres operated on, 405 cases of marked hyperthyroid- ism occurred, with 19 deaths. Most of these were treated by the extirpation of one lobe, usually the right, and part of the isthmus. In very mild early cases the treatment adopted was to ligature the arteries and veins at both upper poles. In very bad cases a similar opera- tion was performed as a preliminary to removal of a part of the gland later. In very aggra- vated cases with cardiac dilatation, ascites, etc., a preliminary period of medical treatment by rest in bed. X-rays, and belladonna and qui- nine is advisable. In selecting a time for operation periods during which the patient is suffering from vomiting or diarrhoea ought of course to be avoided. The operations performed may be tabulated thus :— Deaths. Double ligature of superior thy- roid vessels . . . . 97 1 Extirpation of one lobe with subsequent ligature of oppo- site superior thyroid vessels . 14 Extirpation of a considerable part of the thyroid . . 295 18 The results of the surgery of exophthalmic goitre are good. Of those who survive the operation 50 pei' cent, make an early recovery, 25 per cent, improve on the main symptoms in the course of a few months, and 25 per cent., though improved, have occasional temporary relapses of tachycardia and tremor. The ex- ophthalmos is one of the last symptoms to disappear. Bloodgood {Inter. Clinics, ser. xvi., i. p. 280) adopts a moderate position as regards the surgical treatment of exophthalmic goitre. He divides cases into three groups:—1. Ad- vanced cases, with exaggerated symptoms, and attacks resembling acute post-operative thy- roidism {q.v.). These cases are rare; the prognosis is grave ; operation is unjustifiable ; medical treatment, X-rays, and serum-therapy should be tried. 2. Well-marked cases, with- out very acute symptoms. The results of operation are so good that it is doubtful whether delay in favour of medical treatment is permissible. 3. Mild cases. Medical treat- ment and X-rays should be tried, and will cure a certain number of these. Every patient with a simple goitre who develops symptoms of Graves's disease ought to be operated on at once. Kocher, who opened the discussion on the surgical treatment of exophthalmic goitre at the meeting of the British Medical Association in 1910 {Brit. Med. Journ., 1st Oct. 1910), de- clined to admit, as some American writers seem disposed to do, that hyperthyroidism is identical with Graves's disease. When a larger amount of thyroid secretion is needed by a healthy organism, as it is at the age of puberty, in pregnancy, and in some diseases, hyper- trophic swelling of the gland is a useful physio- logical process, and to interfere with this by operation is simply to bring discredit on the operative treatment of real Graves's disease. Kocher lays great stress on the examination of the blood in Graves's disease. The malady is characterised by a diminution in the poly- nuclears, and an increase of the lymphocytes. It is very exceptional to find a case of true Graves's disease in which this state of matters is not present, and in a doubtful case a diag- nosis of Graves's disease should not be made if the above blood picture is not found. After operation, if success is only partial, the lymphomatosis persists ; complete cure goes along with a return of the blood to normal. The coagulation time of the blood is also usually prolonged in cases of the disease ; after operation it becomes normal, while in cachexia, strumipriva, and myxoedema the coagulation time is diminished. Kocher has now performed 4394 excisions of goitre, of which 469 were cases of Graves's disease. The total mortality of these 469 cases is 3*4 per cent., but the mortality has gone down from 5 per cent, four years ago to 1"3 per cent, this year. Contra- indications to operation. — Long-continued poisoning with thyroid secretion brings on organic changes in the heart muscle, kidneys, liver, pancreas, and cerebral cortex. In Graves's disease operations everything must be done to avert increasing the already existent