ECLAMPSIA 125 maternal blood, for he found that the placenta in such cases was more permeable, and he thought that blood from the foetus acted upon that of the mother like the blood of a distinct species. In support of his views, Dienst discovered that blood obtained by vene- section from two cases of albuminuria, when tested upon normal blood, caused aggUitination and hasmolysis; after delivery, the maternal blood was tested upon that of the infants for agglutination, with a positive result. A special development of the theory of the placental origin of eclampsia is expressed in the statement that there is a deportation of villi or parts of villi fi'om the placenta into the mother's blood. Labhardt (Zeitsch. f. Geburtsh. ii. Gynak., liv. p. 264, 1905) discussed this view and its modi- fications, grouping them into three classes—(1) Schmorl thought that placental cells passed into the maternal circulation, and, placing this idea in conjunction with Ehrlich's demonstration that the entrance of foreign cells into an organ- ism caused chemical changes, and with Veit's belief that the placental cells produced a poison in the mother, considered that the poison thus carried over caused eclampsia, and that as only a few cells were deported the amount of the poison was small and the disease rare ; (2) Ascoli expanded this view, and stated that the foreign cells bi'ought about the formation of new substances which dissolved them and neutralised their poisonous effects ; these new substances were lysins (syncytiolysins), and, if they were formed in excess, they caused eclampsia ; (3) Weichardt, again, thought that by the solution of the placental cells a new poison was formed (syncytiotoxine), which was usually neutralised by an antitoxine, and that if the latter failed to be formed in sufficient amount, the syncytiotoxine caused the eclamptic seizures. Labhardt {loc. cit.) criticised these views, pointing out that deportation of villi was frequent, whilst eclampsia was rare; that the placental cells were hardly " foreign" to the maternal organism; that eclampsia was very rare in animals that possessed placentas ; and that the frequency of eclampsia in prim- parse, in cases of flat pelvis and hydramnios, and in certain places at certain times, could not be accounted for by this theory. He added that its non-occurrence in cases of tubal abortion was a mystery. The examination of ectopic pregnancies has still further weakened the placental theory of origin of eclampsia, for it has shown that the appearances described as deportation of villi may possibly be due to decidual reaction and formation in the walls of blood-vessels in the Fallopian tube (see Ectopic Pregnancy, Tubal, p. 132). Whilst it cannot be affirmed that the placental theory of origin of eclampsia has been fully established, it may at any rate be stated that truth in large or small measure is contained in it. Eclampsia does not occur without pregnancy ; it occurs most often in women who are for the first time experiencing the metabolic changes produced by utero-gestation, the great biological link between the mother and her foetus is the placenta, and the theory founded upon placental conditions- fulfils the requirements of modern views on the pathogenesis of toxaemia There is always- danger of concentrating our attention too much upon a detail (e.g. lacticaciduria as developed by Zweifel (Arch. f. Gynank., Ixxvi. p. 537, 1905; Filth and Lockemann, Zentralh.f. Gyndk., XXX. p. 41, 1906), and forgetting the great generalisation that eclampsia is due to a tox;emia. In time it may be possible to differentiate- various types of eclampsia, and a placental variety, a thyroidal variety, an intestinal variety, and so on, may be recognised and separated and treated along lines peculiar to each ; meanwhile, the safest procedure to be adopted must be to treat the disease as a toxiemia and on the general principles which have proved to be most beneficial. Methods of Treatment, Old and New.— Turning now to treatment, we find the same divergence of opinion still prevailing as was- noticeable at the end of the nineteenth century. Veit's morphine treatment is still popular with some obstetricians (Harpe, Journ. Obstet. and Gyncec. Brit. Emp., ix. p. 102, 1906), but Bumm and others have declared against it. Chloroform and chloral are still extensively used, but it has been found that the administration of chloral by the rectum (the usual plan) is uncertain, and that it is better to give it by the mouth, the stomach having been previously washed out; chloral has been given hypodermically (Ballan- tyne, Trans. Ediii. Obstet. Soc, xxxiii. p. 43, 1907-8), but this requires caution. In America the treatment by hypodermic injections of the tincture of veratrum viride is yet in vogue, but apparently it is less popular ; the drug is given till the pulse-rate falls to 60. It may be, how- ever, that the reduction of the blood-tension produced by veratrum is itself dangerous, and hence it has become customary to combine its administration with that of camphor or caffeine. In Europe, Mirto (Ann. di ostet. e ginec, ii. for 1905, p. 580) and others have spoken highly of the value of veratrum viride. Venesection and the injection of saline solution under the breasts or into the veins has been highly reported upon, and Jardine put on record fifteen cases of eclampsia with no maternal deaths treated by the above means, combined with free purgation and the use of hot packs (Journ. Obstet. and Gyncec. Brit. Emp., viii. p. 14, 1905). Budin (Eev. gen. de din. et de therap., xxi. p. 101, 1907) emphasised the immense importance of clearing out the intestine both for the preven- tion and treatment of eclampsia; rectal washing and bleeding were strongly recommended by him. The use of nitroglycerin internally or