PANCREAS, DISEASES OF THE 285 duodenal ulcer, and in these cases a posterior gastro-enterostomy was performed at the same time, with good results in every case. "It will thus be seen that in a very large percentage of cases the removal of the cause, together with drainage of the bile-ducts, or, in the absence of a removable cause, the simple drainage of the bile-ducts alone, is an operation that may be safely recommended in suitable cases that have failed to yield to general treatment." LITERATURE.—TAc Pancreas, its Surgery and Pathology, by A. W. Mayo Robson aud P. J. Cammidge (London), 1907, should be referred to. It is a complete treatise on the subject, and contains, besides a large number of illustrative cases, full details of diagnostic methods, and a bibliography. Pancreatic Reaction.—See Gall Bladder and Bile-Ducts. Pankreon.—A proprietary preparation acting as a digestive agent when it reaches the duodenum; this is accomplished by combining the ferment with a tannin albumin compound which resists the gastric juice; it is recom- mended in a number of digestive disorders, in arteriosclerosis, angina pectoris, gastric migraine, etc. See Lancet, i. for 1910, p. 653 ; also Fischer and Hoppe, Miinchen. med. Wochnschr., liv. p. 2640, 1907. PanopeptOne. — A proprietary food preparation, described as containing "the nutritive constituents of beef and wheat in a soluble and freely absorbable form"; an analysis {Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1909, p. 562) gives 20"0 parts by measure of alcohol, and 26'9 parts by weight of total solids. Pantopon.—A proprietary preparation of opium which is said to represent all the alkaloids of that drug in the form of chlorides ; it is claimed for it that it does not cause vomit- ing, constipation, or excitement, and that it does have a sedative action when morphine fails; the average dose is from to | grain thrice daily; in Great Britain it is known (on account of legal reasons) as omnopon. Sue Sahli, Theraj}. Monatsh., xxiii. p. 1, 1909 ; Miinchen. med. Wochnschr., Ivii. p. 1326, 1910; Ewald, Berl. klin. Wochnschr., xlvii. p. 1609, 1910; Vevt\k, Deutsche med. Wochnschr., xxxvi. p. 1661, 1910; and Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1910, pp. 1179, 1295, and 1572. PapillGedema.—Oedema of the intra- ocular end of the optic nerve. Parabismutil.—A yellowish powder consisting chiefly of paranucleinate of bismuth. See Fortescue-Brickdale, Neiver Remedies, p. 59, 1910. Paradox Reaction.—See Immunity (Super sensilisation). Paraform.—A disinfecting agent, de- scribed as a polymer of formic aldehyde ; also known as triformal. Parag^onimus Westermanii.— One of the trematodes (the lung Huke or distoma pulmonale) sometimes found (generally in the form of its ova) in sputum. Paranephrin.—One of the many names for the active principle of the adrenal body. Paranuclear Body.—A body consist- ing of granules lying outside the nucleus; " Nebenkern." Paranuclein.—One of the first products of the peptic digestion of casein, obtained by synthesis. »S'ee Adami, Pathology, i. p. 82, 1910. Paraphthalein. — One of the many trade names given to phenolphthalein {q.v.). Paraplasm. —That portion of the cell- substance which is neither cytoplasm proper nor the cell fluid of the meshes, but either granules taken up by phagocytic action, or produced by cell metabolism, or the fluid con- tents of secretory vacuoles, or inactive substances laid down as a framework. See Adami, Path- ology, i. p. 33, 1910. PararegU I i n.—A mechanically - acting purgative, composed of paraffin and cascara. See also RegULIN. Parathyroidectomy. — -S'ee Para- thyroid Glands. Parathyroid Glands.—Opinions on the nature and functions of the parathyroid glands are divided between two camps. On the one hand there is a school of physiolo- gists who look on them merely as potential or actual thyroid tissue, and on the other hand a large number of experimenters regard them as totally distinct and equally important to the animal economy. According to those who hold this view thyroidectomy produces " post- operative " myxoedema, parathyroidectomy, tetany. Among the leading representatives of the negative school are Jolly, Swale Vincent, and Forsyth. The objections which have been directed against the results of the experi- menters who assert that tetany can be caused by extirpation of the parathyroids are based on (1) the admitted technical difficulties of total parathyroidectomy, and (2) the impossi-