ACIDOSIS 21 due to the same cause. Before, however, consider- ing the symptomatology of the condition, it is necessary to discuss the general nature of acidosis. We may define acidosis as a diminution of the normal alkalinity of the tissue juices from the presence of fatty acids and their derivatives, which are ultimately excreted in the urine as acetone, diacetic acid, and oxybutyric acid (ketonuria). Since, however, it is the retention, and not the elimination, of these bodies which causes intoxication, acidosis may occur without ketonuria, and vice versa. Source of the Acetone Bodies (Ketones). -—Of these, oxybutyric acid is that which is primarily produced in the body ; by its oxida- tion diacetic acid is formed, and from this again acetone is derived. The acetone bodies are directly derived from fat — particularly the lower fatty acids, such as butyric acid. Carbo- hydrates and proteids give rise tothem indirectly only in so far as they lead to the formation of body fat. The question then arises, are the acetone bodies normal intermediate products of fat metabolism, and is their development in the tissues in excessive amount due to a defect of secondary oxidation, or, are they due to abnormal metabolism of fat 1 The latter alter- native seems the more probable. The immediate ■cause of the fat metabolism going astray seems in all cases connected with default of carbo- hydrate metabolism. It may be that the ■carbohydrate element of the food is insufficient (as in starvation), or that, as in diabetes and possibly other conditions, the body is unable to utilise what is eaten. In any case it is certain that for the complete oxidation of fat, carbo- hydrate must be burnt up in the body. This is perhaps one of the chief facts demonstrated concerning acidosis—that its immediate cause has to do with deficiency of carbohydrate. The acetone bodies are produced in the tissues of the body, particularly in the liver and muscles, not in the intestine, but further than this their seat of origin is unknown. Excretion of the Acetone Bodies.—In health the only member of the group which is ■eliminated is acetone, which is excreted in the expired air (-03 gram to "OS gram per twenty- four hours) and in the urine (•! gram to -3 gram per twenty-four hours). Only when the urine contains larger quantities than this do we speak of a pathological " acetonuria." As the amount of acetone in the urine rises, diacetic acid and oxybutyric acid also appear, but there is no constant ratio between them. The quantity of oxybutyric acid excreted often greatly exceeds that of the acetone. The excretion of the acetone bodies is greatly influenced by the a'(ministration of alkalies ; large doses of sodium bicarbonate wash the diacetic and oxybutyric acid out of the tissues. Relation of Urinary Ammonia to Ace- tone Bodies.—An important connection exists between the excretion of ammonia and the acetone bodies. In man the greater part of the ammonia produced in the body is converted into urea, but a small proportion evades this transformation, and is eliminated in the urine in combination with the mineral acids set free from the food. The ammonia nitrogen normally forms only from 3 to 5 per cent, of the total urinaiy nitrogen. The object of this mechanism is to spare the fixed bases of the body. An increase in the mineral acids of the food increases the output of urinary nitrogen; organic acids, with the exceptions undernoted, have no such effect, as they are eliminated as carbonic acid. Lactic acid and the acetone bodies, however, behave like mineral acids in this respect, hence the amount of ammonia nitrogen in the urine is an index of the quantity of these substances (and therefore of acidosis) in the body. Each gram of ammonia excreted in excess of that present in the food is equivalent to 6 grams of oxybutyric acid. The administra- tion of alkalies diminishes, and their withdrawal increases, the output of ammonia. While increase of ammonia nitrogen in the urine is most commonly brought about in this way, it may also arise from interference with the urea synthesis, such as occurs in liver diseases. Tests for the Acetone Bodies. — No simple clinical method for the quantitative estimation of acetone and oxybutyric acid is available. For the ordinary quantitative re- actions of these bodies, see Urine, Patho- logical Changes in. The most generally useful test for the presence of the acetone bodies is ferric chloride, which gives a port- wine colour with diacetic acid (not acetone). In slight degrees of aceotnuria, therefore, when acetone alone is present, the reaction is negative. The test is not available when the patient is taking salicylate, as the urine then gives the same port-wine colour with ferric chloride. Clinical.—Clinically, we must distinguish between acidosis and acid intoxication. An individual may suffer from acidosis for years, without any special symptoms arising. This occurs especially in diabetes. The main symptoms asciibed to acid intoxication in man are—dulness and apathy, increasing to drowsiness and coma ; sometimes, however, these are preceded by rest- lessness, irritability, insomnia, and delirium. Vomiting, which may be uncontrollable, and is sometimes hsemorrhagic, associated either with diarrhoea or constipation, is a fairly constant symptom. The abdomen is sunken; thirst and epi- gastric pain are sometimes complained of. Icterus is not uncommon. There is every appearance of the gravest illness. The face has a dusky flush, the tongue becomes dry, the abdomen sinks, the pulse becomes feeble, and the patient is collapsed. A peculiar form of breathing, known as " air hunger," characterised by deep, laboured respiration, is common. The breath smells