291 PITUITARY GLAND, SURGERY OF former carrying with it the danger of damaging the brain, and the latter (through its length and intricacy) the risk of infection. But let us look at the different surgical procedures more in detail. The Intracranial Route.—Through the an- terior fossa attempts have been made to deal with the pituitary gland. Krause, for instance, working on the dead body, obtained access by an osteoplastic resection of the frontal bone, followed by an approach outside the dura to the small wing of the sphenoid, the opening of the dui'a there, and the removal of the pituitary tumour by means of a specially curved knife ; and Borchardt {Ann. Surg., xlviii. p. 783, 1908) applied Krause's method to the living subject, but was compelled to stop by reason of the haemorrhage. To avoid this danger Kiliani opened the dura immediately, tied the longi- tudinal sinus, and lifted up the temporal lobe ; but, on the whole, access through the anterior fossa is difficult and dangerous, and Horsley and Dahlgren have, it is stated, tried the middle fossa. The temporal bone is trephined, the dura is opened, the temporo-sphenoidal lobe of the brain is I'aised, and the pituitary body reached from the side. Gushing states {Av7b. .Surg., 1. p. 1014, 1909) that he employed this method in one case, but although he easily got a view of the infundibular region, the tumour did not project above the dural margin of the clinoid processes, and he brought the operation to an end there and then. It would seem, therefore, that for the success of this method the tumour must be well above the sella turcica so as to be visible from the side. Gushing, in his experimental work on dogs, however, has successfully used this intracranial method, but has combined it with the making of a generous opening over the opposite hemisphere to allow for cerebral dislocation ; by this means the temporo-sphenoidal lobe on the approach side can be freely raised without risk of compression or cortical injury, for plenty of room is got by the protrusion of the opposite hemisphere; and the pituitary gland can then be easily lifted out of the shallow fossa in which it lies. But, as has been said, the anatomical conditions in the human subject are different, and the hypophyseal tumour must project considerably into the infundibular region before it can be dealt with thus. llie Extracra7iial Route.—These considera- tions and experiences have led operators to the extracranial route of approach or the trans- phenoidal mode of doing hypophysectomy. The study of vertical sections of the head prove the anatomical possibility of reaching the pituitary gland by this route ; the facts that the operation of hypophysectomy is usually performed for the removal of tumoui'S of the ^land, and that such growths usually extend •downwards away from the cranial cavity, and towards that of the nose support the trans- pheiioidal route, and the occasional occurrence of ectopia of the gland is an additional argu- ment in its favour. In coiniection with the last statement it is interesting to note the case reported by A. R. Tweedie and A. Keith {Proc. Roy. Soc. Med.,\Y. p. 47, 1911), in which an infant with various facial defects exhibited also a cleft palate in the depths of which a body was detected which turned out to be the displaced pituitary gland. As long ago as 1900, Kouig proposed the extracT-anial operation, and recommended split- ting the superior maxilla. The stages were as follow:—The palatal process of the superior maxilla was chiselled away after its muco- periosteal covering had been separated ; then the superior maxilla was split and the two lateral halves were retracted ; then the nasal septum, the vomer, and the other structures of the nose which prevented the obtaining of a good view were removed ; the sphenoidal cells were opened; and, finally, the posterior sphenoidal wall was chiselled away in order to reach the gland in the sella turcica. This method, how- ever, is very difficult of performance, and is apt to produce great disfigurement. Other methods of reaching the hypophysis have been devised, and may be arranged in two groups, according as they are supranasal or infranasal. The Supranasal Extracranial Operation.— This operation, as practised by Giordano, Lowe, Schloffer, von Eiselsberg, and others, consists (stated shortly) in turning the nose to one side or downwards, in removing the ethmoid cells and turbinates, and in thus reaching the sphenoid. Giordani turned down an osteo- plastic flap of the anterior wall of the frontal sinuses and the nose, went through the ethmoidal and sphenoidal cells, opened the anterior wall of the sella turcica, and so reached the pituitary body. Schloffer follows a slightly different plan. He turns the nose downwards and to the right; excises the turbinates, the ethmoidal cells, and the septum ; he removes the inner wall of the left orliit down to the optic foramen, and the inner wall of the antrum of Highmore, with part of the nasal projection of the left superior maxilla; and, finally, he breaks down the walls of the ethmoidal cells and so gets to the sphenoidal cells and the sella turcica with the tumour in it. In this operation the skin incision runs down the middle of the brow and along the lateral aspect of the nose. Von Eiselsberg, who has had considerable experience in hypophysectomy, opens the frontal sinus to get more room. He makes an incision along the junction of the left side of the nose with the cheek, which meets a transverse one at the root of the nose; he then turns the nose downwards and to the right, divides the septum, and removes the turbinates; next, he divides