236 LABOUR: POST-PARTUM HAEMORRHAGE however, the practice outlined above has been attacked, and the measures referred to have been characterised as "unscientific and delusive." Dr. John F. Le Page {Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1907, p. 18-5) criticises the routine treat- ment of post-partum hajmorrhage described in most text-books of midwifery, and adduces the fact that in 1905 there were 619 deaths regis- tered in England and Wales from " flooding," admitting, however, that deaths from placenta prgevia were included among the 619 cases. His practice is to compress the abdominal aorta according to the following plan :—" I raise the pelvis to cause blood to gravitate towards the heart and brain, and to prevent bleeding from the uterine and ovarian veins. The aorta is compressed to immediately arrest arterial hsemorrhage. The spinal column beneath and below the umbilicus is very prominent and broad, and for the length of 3 or 4 ins. forms an admirable point de resistance, for the aorta lies immediately over it. Compression is best made by the outer, the ulnar, portion of the left clenched hand, than which nothing could be more convenient and effective. Pressure should at short intervals be made to slide from one part to another of the available 3 or 4 ins., that no injuiy be done to the sympathetic system of nerves which forms a network around the vessel, and should be continued until uterine contraction is secured, even if this be delayed for one or two hours. Its release must always l;>e very gradual; the greatest care in this par- ticular is essential. An important fact is that, although no blood is allowed to pass the com- pressing hand, there is still a sufficient, but very limited, flow through the ovarian arteries to maintain uterine vitality. I raise the legs and arms to transmit their blood into the trunk, and then bandage them firmly to prevent the return of blood when they are lowered. The efl'ect of this manoeuvre is that in many cases a tension of whole blood approaching the normal is attained in one or two minutes. Ergot and other remedial means are at once available. The hand, rendered aseptic, is then very care- fully passed into the uterus—first, to detect any possible laceration of the body or cervix or any remaining portion of placenta; and, secondly, to afford a poi^d d'appui for grasping and compressing the uterus from outside." This treatment. Dr. Le Page says, is " rational, always practicable, and so far as his experience goes, unfailing," and Dr. Bishop (Practitioner, Ixxviii. pp. 201, 791, 1907) agrees with him regarding the efficacy of compression of the aorta; but their view has not commended itself to all their professional brethren, as a study of the recent literature of the subject shows (vide papers by Fitzgerald, Duke, M'Kerron, and others). Le Page attempts to strengthen his argument for compression of the aorta by using the following illustration:—"What should we say of a water-department engineer who, when a water main burst, immediately sent for every servant in his employ to attempt to plug the broken pipe ? I think a child would say : 'Turn oft' the main.' I have said 'Turn it off at the main ' for the last quarter of a century. And I say now that this is the one thing which should be immediately done, the one rational initial treatment in all cases of post-partum hajmorrhage. Shut off the current along the uterine arteries by compressing the abdominal aorta. Everything is in favour of this procedure. It is done in a moment; it is done without the smallest difficulty; it is absolutely and instantly effective. Eftective in what? In causing the uterus to contract? Certainly not ; that is impossible. Eflective in immediately restraining the pouring out of blood, which is the one primary indication." The illustration here employed may, however, be turned round and used effectively in support of the argument for uterine compression, for if a pipe bursts in a private house, the quickest plan to stop the loss is to hammer in the pipe at the break ; to turn it off at the main would be to throw every tap in the house out of action. But it is doubtful if the illustration be an apt one in either case. It is more important to remember that bleeding from the interior of the uterus in and after the third stage is naturally checked by the contraction of that organ, which has the effect of applying, so to say, a thousand muscular ligatures to the vessels in the mesometrium ; and the effect is maintained between the contractions (which are intermittent) by retraction (which is per- manent). It is claimed, therefore, that the right plan to be adopted is to cause contraction of the uterus to check the bleeding and to allow time for retraction to develop ; and, unless complete atony, a very rare condition, exist, this result follows the compression, kneading, or massage of the womb. At the same time it may be admitted that some of the many plans of treating post-partum haemorrhage named in obstetric text-books (e.g. the use of ice and of perchloride of iron) are of little or no use, and that compression of the aorta is occasionally of considerable value. Perhaps, however, the most important consideration is the early de- tection of the commencement of post-partum hajmorrhage by watching the woman in labour carefully during, not only the third stage, but also the half-hour which follows the expulsion of the placenta. The dangerous cases are those in which the first indications of commencing intra-uterine bleeding have been unobserved, overlooked, or neglected; and if the obstetrician will note the state of his patient's pulse and the condition of her uterus with persistent care, he will not often find himself face to face with serious post-partum bleeding. M'Kerron {Scot. Med. and Surg. Joitrn., xxi. p. 439, 1907)