1264 MENSTRUATION, MORBID lemarked that unusual fertility of the parent of a child with early menstruation had been observed in connection with other cases. Stoeltzner {Med. Klui., iv. p. 5, 1908) has re- corded another instance of menstruatio pra3cox, and Hendrix {Folidin. (Bruxelles), xv. p. 1, 1906) noted a case in which periodical dis- charges began at the age of 8 months and had •continued till the third year. 5. Menorrhagia and Metrorrhagia.—It is admitted by everyone that menorrhagia and metrorrhagia are symptoms due to many dif- ferent diseases ; but there is still considerable difficulty in discovering the causal disease in every case, and specially in some forms of bleeding at the menopause. There is a tendency to ascribe to haimophilia these cases of climacteric ha;morrhage in which there is neither a tumour (e.g. cancer of the cervix or body or fibroid tumour) nor a diseased state of the uterine mucous membrane {e.g. fungous endometi'itis); but Dickinson {Brooklyn Med. Joiirn.., XX. p. 45, 1906) is not of this opinion, and believes that in such cases the cause is arterio-sclerosis (of the uterine vessels), obstruc- tion to the return circulation, diseased structure and function of the ovary, or increase in the connective tissue in the uterine wall. The arterio-sclerosis may affect the uterus alone, and not the general vascular system, although a clear case has not yet been described. Palmer Findley {Trans. Amer. Gynec. Sac, xxx. p. 399, 1905) has written at length on the subject of ai'terio-sclerosis of the uterus, and Elizabeth H. B. Macdonald {Trans. Edin. Obstet. Soc, xxxii. p. 83, 1907) has made a valuable addi- tion to our knowledge of its morbid anatomy (with a bibliography) ; but there is still some obscurity surrounding the causation of metror- rhagia myopathica and chronic metritis. {See also Barbour, Trans. Edin. Obstet. Soc, xxx. p. 71, 1905 ; Anspach, Amer. Journ. Obstet., liii. p. 1, 1906; and Solowij, Monatssch. f. Geburtsh. u. Gyndk., xxv. p. 291, 1907.) Mercurettes.—A proprietary prepara- tion for administering mercury by inunction ; in them the finely divided mercury is incor- porated with cocoa butter. See Lancet, ii. for 1909, p. 302. Mercury Atoxylate.—A white powder, almost insoluble in water, being a compound of atoxyl or soamin (the sodium salt of p-amidophenyl arsenic acid) and mercury, and recommended by intramuscular injection in syphilis. See Fortescue-Brickdale, Newer Remedies, p. 49, 1910. Mercury, Oleo-brassidate of.— A preparation formed when erucic acid (from rape oil) and oleic acid react with mercuric oxide; it forms a jelly which is useful for applying to the skin in the cases in which mercurial ointment would be used, i.e. as an antisyphilitic, antiparasitic, and antiseptic in- unction (R. Dupuy, Rev. de therap. med.-chir., Ixxvi. p. 253, 1909 ; Bull. gen. de therap., clvii. p. 424, 1909). Mesin.—A urinary antiseptic, Ijeing a double salt of hexamethylene-tetramine citrate and lithium citrate. MeSO-SigmoiditiS.—Inflammation of the mesentery of the sigmoid flexure of the colon ; it has been pointed out that sigmoiditis and meso-sigmoiditis pi'oduce a clinical picture which resembles and has been mistaken foi' that of malignant disease of the lower colon (Rowlands, Lancet, i. for 1910, pp. 1194-1197); surgical measures for its relief include colostomy (which should only be a temporary operation in these cases), ileosigmoidostomy or anasto- mosis between the lower part of the ileum and the sigmoid flexure (which is rarely possible on account of the sigmoid itself being the affected part), and resection of the affected portion of the bowel (which gives the best promise of permanent cure). MeSOtheiioma.—A tumour arising in mesothelial tissue, e.g. adenoma of the kidney, ovary, uterus, or serous membrane (pleura, peri- toneum), hypernephroma, and rhabdomyoma. Metaphase.—A stage (the second) in mitosis (indirect cell division), during which the splitting of the chromosomes takes place. See Anaphase. Metaplasia.—The post-natal production of specialised tissues from cells which normally produce tissues of other orders ; it occurs physio- logically {e.g. when connective tissue corpuscles are converted into fat cells) as well as patho- logically. See Adami, Pathology, i. p. 639, 1910. Metaproteins.—Derived proteins, such as acid albumin, etc. MetchnikofPs Theory.—&e Im- munity; also F. W. Andrewes's Croonian Lecture in the Lancet (i. for 1910, pp. 1737- 1743). Methyl Aspirin. — Acetyl-salicylic methyl ester ; methyl rhodin ; recommended in rheumatism. Met hylatropine Bromide. —Atropine to which one atom of bromine and one methyl (CH..) gioup have been added to the nitrogen with resulting changes in the physiological action of the drug and a lessen-