MEDITERRANEAN FEVER—MALTA FEVER 256 the blood of Malta fever patients contained specific agglutinins. The chief results of the commission's work are as follows :— 1. M. melitensis is a vigorous organism which may resist desiccation for a period of several weeks. 2. Malta fever is a septicaemia; the specific organism can be recovered from the peripheral blood of the patient, from the urine, and from the fajces. .3. An ambulatory type of the disease exists among the inhabitants of the island. Infected persons give the agglutination reaction, have the mici'ococci in their blood, and excrete them by the urine. 4. Infection is not conveyed by the sputum, sweat, breath, or scrapings of the skin of patients. It does not take place " if contact is limited to skin surfaces only, and if con- tamination with infected excretion is carefully eliminated" (Eyre). Infection is probably occasionally conveyed by sexual intercourse. 5. The disease can seldom be induced in monkeys by exposing them to infected dust. 6. About 50 per cent, of the Maltese goats give a positive agglutination reaction, and about 10 per cent, excrete milk which contains the micrococcus. By feeding goats on infected material it is, in many cases, possible to pro- duce the disease in them. Monkeys fed on infected milk contract the disease. 7. A steamer conveying infected milch goats to Antwerp became the seat of an epidemic. Of 10 individuals who drank freely of the milk on board 8 fell sick of Malta fever. Attempts to inspect the milch goats on the island led to a strike among the dairymen, which necessi- tated the replacement of the goats' milk in the dietary of the troops by condensed milk: Malta fever at once diminished. In 1905 there were 750 cases ; in the first half of 1906, 144 cases; second half of 1906 (after alteration of milk supply), 32 cases ; 1907, 7 cases. In the navy during 1905 there were 498 cases; dur- ing 1906, 248 cases, January to September 1907, no cases. These observations in the epidemiology of the disease have been con- firmed by investigations showing that, in the majority of cases of the disease, a direct relationship with fresh milk can be traced. The goat is probably the primary source of the disease in most, if not all, cases. REFERENCES.—iJ/erft«e?-raKean Fever Reports (Lon- don), V.Y. ; also Critical Review by Etre, Quarterly Journ. Med., Jan. 190S. MeiOSiS.—The true reduction process in the chromosomes in the spermatozoon and ovum during maturation (Moore); it is derived from the Gr. /j^uov, less. Meiostag^min Reaction. — See Cancer {Cancer Reactions). Meligrrin. — A proprietary preparation, being a mixture of 86 parts of antipyrin and 14 of exalgin {Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1909, p. 1264). MeiYlbroidS.—The trade name given to an administrative form of drug which passes unaltered through the stomach to be dissolved in the intestine, the drug being enclosed in two layers of membrane which resist gastric juice, but not the pancreatic. See Lancet, ii. for 1908, p. 99. Meningism.—This term, or that of Syndrome of Dupre, is given to the morbid state, nearly always due to toxsemia, which is accompanied by the clinical features of true meningitis, but not by the pathological changes in the meninges which are characteristic of that disease; this form of meningeal irritation can usually be distinguished from meningitis by lumbar puncture, the fluid being clear, flowing with no increased pressure, showing no organ- isms, giving rise to no bacterial growths in media, developing no " spider-web " coagulum on standing, containing albumen only in very small amount, and having a normal reducing power with Fehling's solution ; blood counts show no increase in the polymorph leucocytes in meningism. When the toxsemia is relieved, rapid and complete recovery usually follows ; and treatment includes the use of salt solution subcutaneously(LangleyPorter, Arch, of Pediat., xxvii. p. 9, 1910). Menstruation. Comparative Physiology . . . 257 Relation to Pro-<i:strum . . . 257 Relation to Ovulation . . . 258 Relation to the Ovaries . . . 258 Relation to the Corplts Luteum . . 259 Transplantation of Ovaries . . 260 Effect of Uterus upon Ovulation . 260 Forensic Aspects 260 Since the appearance of Green's Encyclopoidia Medica the most imporant advance in our knowledge of menstruation has been in the direction of the elucidation of its comparative physiology. W. Heape's article {Q.uarterly Journ. Microsc. Sc., xliv. p. 1, 1900) may fairly be said to have inaugurated a new series of investigations which have been of the greatest value in breaking down the artificial wall of separation which had been built up l)etween menstruation in the human female and that process in other mammals. Heape began with a revision of the current terminology of the subject. He defined the " reproductive period " as the whole period of the life of a mammal (male or female) during