SLEEPING SICKNESS 341 Society (London : Stationery Office), Nos. 1 to 9 (No. 9 contains a general index to the whole series). SOcllTlin. — Sodium para-amino-phenyl- arsonate, or the sodium salt of amido-phenyl- arsenic acid, or atoxyl; it is recommended in syphilis, malaria, trypanosomiasis, anasmia, and certain skin diseases {e.g. psoriasis). Sue Drugs, Eecent {Atoxyl). ''So I media."—A dry concentrated form of bacteriological culture medium. See Lancet, i. for 1910, p. 1206 {RejJ. Royal. Microsc. Soc). Solurola—An alleged uric acid solvent, being nucleotin phosphoric acid, a brownish- yellow, amorphous powder, soluble in cold water; the dose is 4 to 8 grains thrice daily, ^ee Fortescue-Brickdale, Newer Remedies, p. 106, 1910. Soma.. — In the language of heredity, especially in Mendelism, the soma is that part of the animal or plant body which is separate and distinct from the propagative pai't; thus in the transmission of unit characters from parent to child, some may be passed on which the soma of either parent did not contain ; they were, however, in the propagative part {e.g. in the gametes, ova, or spermatozoa). Sophol.—An organic silver compound, being a formo-nucleinate of silver, a soluble brown powder, recommended in eye diseases as being a safe, non-irritating, and antiseptic remedy; solutions of from 2 to 5 or even 10 per cent, are used. See Lancet, ii. for 1910, p. 1143. Spallanzani's Law.—The fact that regeneration of lost parts is more complete in the younger individual. Spasmophile Diathesis. — This name has been used by Heubner, Thiemich, Finkelstein, and others to describe a very common affection of infancy, namely, that which is characterised by increased mechanical and electrical irritability of the peripheral nerves, by laryngismus, by convulsions, and by tetany. These four nervous manifestations are, as is well known, often associated Avith rickets. They are not, however, due to rickets, but are probably induced by the same kind of dietetic errors as tend to cause that disease. The clinical features of infantile convulsions, laryngismus, and tetany have been described under these heads in the Encyclajxedia Medica. Increased mechanical irritability of the peri- pheral nerves is most easily detected by tap- ping the cheek below, and a little in front of, the ear, whereupon, if it is present, a rapid twitch of the muscles about the angle of the mouth occurs. In well-marked cases almost any muscle in the body can be stimulated to contract in the same rapid way by tapping in the neighbourhood of its motor point. In- creased mechanical irritability can be especially easily demonstrated in the biceps, extensors of the for-earm, quadriceps, pectorals, and calf muscles. Facial irritability as described above (Chvostek's sign) must not be confused with the lip-reflex, a phenomenon described by Thomson {Rev. Neur. and Psychiatry, March 1903) and others. The lip-reflex consists of a pouting movement of the lips, Avhich is produced in young infants by tapping near the angle of the mouth. It can rarely be elicited except during sleep, and is a normal phenomenon in the newly born, but tends to disappear about the third year. The lip-reflex is a quasi-pui'posive, co-ordinated movement, and both sides of the mouth pout in response to unilateral stimula- tion. Repetition of the taps has a cumulative effect on the movement of the lips. In children who suffer from spasmophilia there is hyper-excitability of the nerves to galvanic stimuli, and the detection of this is held to justify the diagnosis even if neither tetany, eclampsia, laryngismus, nor facial irrita- bility is present ("latent tetany"). Thiemich gives the following table of reactions. The Arables are in milliamperes. The indifferent electrode (50 sq. cm.) was placed on the chest, and a Stinzing normal electrode (3 sq. cm.) was used as the active one. The median nerve at the bend of the elbow was tested. Average normal child Manifest tetany. Latent tetany . Previous tetany K.C.C. A.C.C. A.O.C. K.C.C. 1-41 2-24 3-63 8-22 0-63 I'll 0-55 1-94 0-70 I-15 0-95 2-23 1-83 1-72 >2-3 >7-9 The K.O.C. reaction is the most important. Values below 5 0 ma. are pathological, while values above 5 0 ma. are normal. Etiology of Spasmophilia.—The cause of the spasmophile diathesis is not properly understood. It is very often associated with rickets, and is most common in the colder months of the year, especially the early spring. The symptoms are liable to be induced by two different faults in diet—the prolonged use of farinaceous food, and over-feeding with cow's milk. It is found, accordingly, that children with the spasmophile diathesis fall into two groups—the large, obese, over fed infants, and the puny, ill-nourished, dyspeptic ones. The former are usually much more amenable to treatment than the latter. Spasmophilia is rare in breast-fed children ; when it does occur in them it seems to be associated, in many cases at least, with over-feeding. Thiemich attaches great importance to a hereditary ten- dency which shows itself both by direct trans-