49 ARTERIO-SCLEROSIS history, hereditary or personal, of psychoses or previous neurasthenia, as in most forms of functional nerve disorder. Arterio-sclerotic neurasthenia sets in without cause or warning. The smallest quantity of alcohol aggravates all the symptoms. Some cases closely resemble an early stage of general paralysis: lumbar puncture (no cells in the cerebro-spinal fluid) will decide this point. Intermittent Claudication. — This con- dition (also called Dysbasia angio-sclerotica and Intermittent Limp) has been especially studied by Erb. Its leading features are—(1) pain in the legs brought on by walking, disappearing after a brief rest, and recurring when walking is resumed ; (2) defective circulation in the limbs ; (3) a tendency to progress to senile gangrene. The chief symptoms of typical cases are a feel- ing of tightness, or stiffness, or actual pain in the legs, parsesthesia}, and vaso-motor disturb- ances—coldness, pallor, cyanosis, or heat and redness—in the feet, all of which occur on walking, and rapidly progress to such an extent that the patient has to pause for rest after he has walked for a quarter of an hour or so. After a short rest the symptoms abate com- pletely, but when the patient sets out again the scene is re-enacted. The anterior and posterior tibial vessels are either imperceptible, or extremely small and contracted, showing evidence of arterio-sclerosis. These vascular and circulatory signs are essential to the diagnosis. The disease is usually bilateral; sometimes pulsation is absent from the popliteal and femoral arteries also. In addition to the above vascular disturbance there may be actual senile gangrene. Males are chiefly affected ; the disease is most common in the fourth and fifth decades, and it is more frequently met with among the well-to-do than the labouring class. Excessive use of tobacco and exposure to cold are said to be the most important causes. Inter- mittent claudication is relatively common in Russia. Idelsohn regards cold as the chief etiological factor. Treatment of Arterio-Sclerosis.—The line of treatment generally advocated includes the regular use of warm baths, moderate amounts of exercise, and gentle massage. When obesity is present it should be reduced by diet, not by excessive exercise. The diet in arterio-sclerosis should consist largely of milk, vegetables, and farinaceous foods. Huchard advises that it should, as far as possible, be free from salt (see Dechlorination). Tea, tobacco, and alcohol should be used sparingly or alto- gether prohibited. See Purin-Free Diet. Apart from these general measures the chief remedies employed are those which favour elimination, and drugs which lower the blood- pressure. As diuretics, diuretin and nitrates are advised by Huchard; benzoates by Barr. Diaphoretics and saline aperients should also be given; among Spas recommended Harrogate may be mentioned. Iodides continue the most popular drugs ; next to them Barr places thyroid as a depressor of blood-pressure. The usual dose of iodide of potash is from 2 to 5 grs. thrice daily. Huchard recommends a course of iodide and nitrate alternately, thus : Potassium iodide is given to the amount of 15 to 30 grs. daily for the first twenty days of the month ; during the last ten days the patient takes 2 drops 1 per cent, trinitrin night and morning. Erlenmeyer's iodide cure consists in giving 4 grs. of sodium iodide and 4 grs. of potassium iodide daily, increasing by 8 grs. of the mixed drugs every fourth day, until by the thirty-sixth day the patient is taking 80 grs. To each dose 20 grs. of sodium bicarbonate is added. This method of administration prevents iodism, and should be persisted in until the patient has had from 1500 to 2500 grs. of iodide. A shorter pro- phylactic cure should be undergone annually thereafter. In the later stages of arterio-sclerosis, when the heart is failing, digitalis is required. In arterio-sclerotic neurasthenia rest is essential, and no active measures {e.g. hydro- therapeutics) are advisable. For sleeplessness, bromides are the best drugs. Veronal is un- safe. In senile insomnia a combination of mor- phine (gr. ^) and veronal (grs. 4) may be used. Arterio - Sclerotic Colic. — Diuretin in doses of from 20 to 30 grs. daily is said to be the most useful drug, and may completely ward off attacks. Next come strophanthus and the iodides. Warm fomentations should be kept applied to the abdomen for several hours in the day; abdominal massage should be tried when the blood-pressure is high. Intermittent Claudication.—The treat- ment consists in giving up tobacco, and using all means of preventing exposure to cold. Cardiac tonics and iodides should be given, and the legs should be treated with galvanism. LITERATURE.—Clifford Allbutt. Brit. Med. Journ., Dec. 22, 1906.—Huchabd. Bull, de I'Acad. de Mid. Paris, Jan. 21, 1907.—Thayer. Amer. Joum. Med. Sci., Mar. 1905; Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc.,. Sept. 10, 1904.—Heineman. Med. Rec. (New York), April 27, 1907.—Fremont-Smith. Amer. Journ. Med. Sci., Feb. 1908.—Cabot. Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc., Sept. 10, 1904.—Klotz. Brit. Med. Joum.^ Dec. 22, 1906.—Heubner. Ergebnisse d. inner. Med. u. Kinderheilk., Bd. i. 1908 (general review of experi- mental work). — CiMBAL. Idem, Bd. ii. 1908.— Stengel. Amer. Med. (Phila.), Jan. 2, 1904; Proc. Phila. Med. »Soc., 1906.—Buch. Arch. f. Verdauungsk., Bd. X. Heft 5 u. 6, 1904.—Erb. Munch, med. Wochenschr., May 24, 1904.—Idelsohn. St. Peters- burger m,ed. Wochenschr., Jan. 22, 1905. Arylarsonates. See Drugs, Recent {Atoxyl); Sleeping Sickness (Treatment). ASCariasiS.—The invasion of the body with ascarides (r/. helminthiasis, filariasis, etc.). 4