PROTOZOA 311 of infantile splenomegaly (Nicolle); H. tropica, the parasite of oriental boil (Wright). III. Sporozoa.—This gToup of organisms have no organs of locomotion or organs for the capture of food. Reproduction is by sporula- tion. They are parasites—cytozoic, or intra- cellular (including hsematozoic), coelozoic, or in the body cavities, or histozoic, in the tissues, generally between the cells. The chief patho- genic sporozoa are: 1. Coccidiidea ; 2. Hsemo- sporidia : 3. Sarcosporidea ; 4. Haplosporidea; 5. Cytoryctes. The Hffimosporidia include the plasmodium malarife ; the hsemogregarina, common in cold- blooded vertebrates, and lately described in a warm-blooded vertebrate (H. Balfouri of the jerboa) ; the halteridium (mentioned above as probably a trypanosome) : and the piroplasma. Firoplasma is a parasite of mammals, the in'\"ertebi'ate host being the tick. It causes a group of diseases known as piroplasmoses, of which hajmoglobinuria is the leading symptom. The best known species is one which infests cattle. One form {P. hominis) is alleged to be the cause of the " tick fever " of the Rocky Mountains. One member of the Haplosporidia—Rhino- sporidia Kinealyi—has been found in vascular pedunculated tumours of the nasal septum in Indians. Cytoryctes.—This sub-group comprises a series of intracellular parasites found in various infec- tious diseases and considered by some to be the causal agents. Cytoryctes variolfe, cy- toryctes vaccinise, cytoryctes aphtharum (foot- and-mouth disease), cytoryctes scarlatina), and cytoryctes luis (Siegel's parasite of syphilis) have been described. Cytoryctes variolce et vacciiiice.—Councilman and Calkins's recent work on the cytoryctes leads them to suppose that the organisms of ^■ariola and vaccinia are identical. In variola the cytoryctes passes through two phases—an asexual, during which it inhabits the cyto- plasm of the stratified epithelium of the skin, and a sexual, which takes place in the nuclei of the cells. In vaccinia only the former, asexual, cycle occurs. Councilman and Calkins postulate a further, hypothetical, stage during which minute spores travel throughout the body from the seat of primary infection. Calkins (cited in Osier's System of Medicine, vol. ii. p. 2-59) gives the life history as follows : —" The first development of the germ in the host is unknown. It probably takes place in the seat of primary infection, forming an organism which reproduces by germs." These are probably carried to the skin in the blood, and from this point the observations are fairly complete. "The gemmules become cytoplasmic amoeboid organisms which give rise to similar gemmules. This process, which Councilman has designated the ' vaccine cycle,' must con- tinue for some time, for in variola the gem- mules are distributed to all parts of the skin. Ultimately the germs derived in this way give rise to forms which penetrate the nuclear membrane and develop into gametocytes of two types, one forming the supposed male gametes, the other the female." From the conjugation of these gametes a zygote forms from which in turn spores develop. The spores infect other nuclei, perhaps spread widely throughout the body, and may transmit the disease to other parts. Protylin.—A preparation of the nuclein group, being a compound of phosphoric anhy- dride (P2O5) with protein ; it is a yellowish- white powder, easily soluble in alkalies, and it is said to contain 80 per cent, albumin and 2 per cent, of phosphorus; for children the dose is from one to three teaspoonfuls with the food, and more for adults ; it has been combined with bromine and iron {bromprotylin, ferriprotylin). See Fortescue-Brickdale, Netver Remedies, p. 57, 1910. Pseudohaemogflobin.—A loose com- bination of ha3moglobin with oxygen, regarded by some as an intermediate body between hfemoglobin and oxyhaemoglobin. Pseudostrophantin.--A variety of strophantin, chemically identical with ouabain ; it is also called strophantin gratus, and it is a crystallised form. Pseudotropine.—a name given (1) to a decomposition product of hyoscine, and (2) to an isomer of tropine ; the former is more often called oscine. Psomophagfy.—The practice of bolting the food, swallowing it quickly without masti- cation (Gr. -^uiMoc, a morsel; (paynv, to eat); the dog is a typically psomophagic animal, whilst the horse is poltophagic. See Hubert Higgins, Lancet, i. for 1905, p. 1334. Psoriasis. — The eruption of psoriasis often persists on the elbows and knees after it has been cured elsewhere. Such chronic spots are often very rebellious to treatment. In these cases a good application is an ointment intro- duced by Dreuw and consisting of—ac. salicyl., 10 parts; chrysarobin and ol. rusci (birch-tar), aa 20 parts; sapon. virid. and vaseline, aa 25 parts. This is to be well rubbed in morning and evening for four to six days, and then vaseline applied for two to three days. The treatment is repeated as often as necessary till the spots have all disappeared. The salicylic acid and green soap are very eflfectual in re- moving the scales and allowing the chrysarobin and tar to act on the lesion. Like all chrysa-