INFANT FEEDING 204 1. It brings into prominence the part which milk plays in developing the gastric functions. At each stage of the stomach's development milk will fully tax the powers of the organ, and exercise them to the utmost. AVe thus see why the milk of the parent animal, though its composition remains practically the same throughout lactation, is as suitable a diet at the end of that period, when the offspring is beginning to be capable of digesting ordinary food, as it is at birth, when the digestive powers are extremely feeble. 2. It also throws light on the functions of curd formation, the object of which would appear to be to exercise the motor as well as the secretory functions. In this connection Chapin's work may be referred to. He draws attention to the relation which exists between the variations in the milks of different species, and variations in the development of the stomachs of the offspring. According to him, the milk of any animal is specially adapted for developing the stomach of its young in a normal manner—e.g. the dense curd of cow's milk is designed to assist in the development of a stomach fitted to deal with the vegetable diet on which the animal subsists. 3. A mechanism of this kind would seem to compensate for slight variations in modifica- tions of milk ; it also explains, to some extent, how cow's milk, notwithstanding the gross difference between its curd and that of human milk, is so well borne by most infants. It may, perhaps, account for the fact that in some cases whole milk is tolerated better than a dilution, because if much hydrochloric acid is present in the stomach it may convert all the casein of dilute milk into casein hydro- chloride, whereas if whole milk be given the acid is insufficient to do so—in the former case a dense, though small curd forms, in the latter a softer, though larger one 4. If milk which has soured, but has not reached the stage of curdling, be swallowed, rennin action takes place as above, and then both lactic and hydrochloric acid are available to react with the calcium paracasein, paracasein lactate and hydrochloride being formed. The excess of acid leads to the production of large quantities of tough curd. In milk which has soured completely and formed a curd outside the stomach (e.g buttermilk), casein lactate, not paracasein lactate, is formed. The curd of casein lactate is light, and undergoes no further change when it comes in contact with rennin and hydrochloric acid. Thus, buttermilk is a digestible food, partially soured milk a very indigestible one. Causes of Cow's Milk Disagreeing.— It is now thought that in the past too much importance has been attached to the proteid of cow's milk as a cause of difficulty in infant feeding. Holt has drawn attention to the dangers which result from excess of fat, and quantities which were formerly advised are now looked upon as harmful. Probably it is never desirable to order a milk mixture con- taining more than 3 per cent, to 3'5 per cent, of fat. Czerny and Keller represent the extreme school of opinion in this respect. They deny that there is any evidence that the proteid of cow's milk is either more diffi- cult to digest, or less perfectly assimilated, than that of human milk, and they blame the fat of cow's milk for nearly all the difficulties which arise in connection with hand feeding. They go so far. as to attribute many cases of marasmus to this component of milk; their views will, however, be found more fully referred to elsewhere {see Infantile Atrophy). Another aspect of the failure of cow's milk to promote normal growth in some cases has recently been much studied in Germany. Attempts have been made to show that it acts as a heterologous albumin, and thus may in some cases be positively harmful. This, however, has never been proved, and the evidence is rather against it. It is, however, probable that a young animal derives from its mother (particularly during the colostrum period of lactation) vital products of the nature of enzymes, which it cannot obtain from any other source. The special import- ance of maternal nursing during the colostrum period is very strongly insisted on by some workers from the biological point of view. The Addition of Alkalies to Milk.— From the chemical point of view, human milk is faintly acid, not alkaline, as formerly stated. That the addition of alkalies (lime water and sodium bicarbonate) renders cows' milk more digestible has long been recognised, but a clear appreciation of their action has only recently been arrived at. Their action is two- fold : they combine with calcium casein to form compounds on which rennin has no action; they neutralise the hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice, and thus inhibit peptic digestion. Lime water is much more powerful in rennin-inhibitory action, and sodium bi- carbonate in acid-neutralising power. Fifty c.c. of lime water equal 3 grs. of sodium bicarbonate in acid-neutralising power, and 35 grs. of sodium bicarbonate in inhibiting rennin. Thus, if it be desired to diminish rennin action without eliminating gastric digestion by hydrochloric acid and pepsin, lime water should be chosen ; if it be desired to cut out gastric digestion altogether, sodium bicarbonate should be used. Lime water is generally added in the proportion of 1-5 ozs. to the pint of milk, sodium bicarbonate in the proportion of 1-2 grs. to the oz. Milk thor- oughly alkalinised by the addition of "2 grs. of sodium bicarbonate to each ounce probably