316 PSYCHO-THERAPY AND PSYCHO-ANALYSIS In some of these awakened thoughts the psychologist may find the key to the riddle of the patient's anomalous mental state. Another plan (specially developed by Jung) is to read out words from a list, and note the thought or thoughts which follow the hearing of a word and the time (by stop-watch) it takes to come ; and yet another method is to investi- gate the dream life of the patient, for it is believed that in dreams the censor of con- sciousness is less watchful, so to say, and may allow the submerged complex to come to the surface. During the whole process the phy- sician must remain non-critical, he must ex- press no surprise at anything he hears, he must neither be sympathetic nor fault-finding, but he must never pass out of the attitude of alert watchfulness for any statement which ma}^ serve to throw light upon the case. Now, what is the effect upon the patient of these inquiries and of the answers made to them 1 They enable him or her to translate symptoms into more direct language, to drag ghosts, so to say, into the light of day, and to know for certain that they are only ghosts, to appreciate how they originated. Thus, to quote Ernest Jones, " AVe give the patient a deeper insight into the workings of his mind, so that he is enabled to correct abnormal devia- tions, to overcome internal inhibitions and impediments, and to acquire a more objective standpoint towards the repressed mental com- plexes, the automatic functioning of which has produced the morbid manifestations. He is in this way able to free his personality from the constraining force of these complexes, and, by taking up an independent attitude towards them, to gain a degree of self-control over his aberrant thoughts and wishes that was pre- viously impossible." It is clear, therefore, that true psycho-analysis is not suggestion-treat- ment, for by suggestion the physician adds something to the patient's mental possession. " The psycho-analytic method does not add ; it takes away something, namely inhibition." The patient is educated in the fullest sense of the word, for not only does he develop will- power and self-control, but he also gains a knowledge and understanding of the workings of his own mind, and is thus able to prevent new morbid developments in the future. " He grows both in capacity to know and in ability to do." Time must be allowed to elapse before one can pronounce upon the value of the psycho- analytic method in contrast with hypnosis, suggestion, and simpler plans. Obviously, it makes a large demand upon l)oth the time and patience of both patient and physician ; but if the hopes it holds out both of prevention and cure are in any measure realised, neither time nor patience will be grudged or ill spent. LITERATURE.—Putnam, James ,T., " Si^mund Fread and his Work," Journ. Ahnorm. Psychol.,iv. pp. 293, 372, 1909-1910.—Schwab, S. I., "NewFreudian Litera- ture," Interstate Med. Journ., xvii. p. 697, 1910.— Frank, L., "Zur Psychanalyse," Journ. f. Psychol, n. Neurol., xiii. pp. 126-135, 1908.—Williams, T. A., " Psychoprophylaxis in Childhood," Journ. Ahnorm. Psychol., iv. pp. 182, 200, 1909-1910. — Onuf, B., " Dreams," Journ. Ahnorm. Psychol., iv. p. 339, 1909- 1910.—Jones. E., "Freud's Theory of Dreams," Rev. Neurol, and Psychiat, viii. p. 135, 1910 ; Amer. Journ. Psychol, xxi. p. 283, 1910.—Jones, E., " A Modern Con- ception of the Psynhnneuroses," Interstate Med. Journ., xvii. p. 567, 1910.—Editorial in the Lancet, i. for 1910, p. 1424.—White, W. A., "Theory, Methods, and Psycho- therapeutic Value of Psycho-Analysis," Interstate Med. Journ., xvii. pp. 643-655, 1910.—Jones, E., Journ. Ahnorm. Psychol., iv. pp. 140-150, 1909-1910. Puerperium, Manag^ement of. —Allusion has already been made to the criti- cism to which the practice of binding the abdo- men in the puerperium has been recently sub- jected, as well as to the almost universal abandonment of routine vaginal douching of the puerperal patient {see LABOUR, MANAGE- MENT of) ; but of late years a very important modification of the management of the lying-in period has been suggested and practised to some extent, viz. permitting the patient to rise much earlier in the puerperium than had previously been customary. In 1899 Kiistner {Zentralb. f. Gyndk., xxiii. p. 705, 1899) raised the question of prolonged rest for women in the puerperium at the meet- ing of the German Society for Gynecology in Berlin. He thought that for strong, healthy puerperal patients who had come through a normal labour, and had neither been infected nor had suffered lacerations, a rest in bed for several weeks was not only needless but actually harmful; they ought to rise on the third, fourth, or even on the second day after delivery. If, however, there had been lacerations (vestibular, perineal, vaginal, or cervical), if the patient had entered the clinique showing signs of infection, if she had a profuse gonorrhoeal discharge, if operative means had been employed in the delivery, or if the labour, although terminated by nature, had been tedious, the longer rest in bed should be permitted. Kiistner reported that patients thus treated did not suffer in any way : they did not develop prolapse or retro- version of the uterus, the involution of that organ was not delayed but hastened, the func- tions of the digestive tract were greatly im- proved (good appetite, natural action of the bowels), and there was no difficulty with micturition, which occurred spontaneously and more frequently. In the discussion which followed the hearing of Kiistner's experiences fears were expressed by Olshausen and others lest the involution of the supporting ligaments of the uterus might be interfered with, lest the abdominal walls might remain relaxed, lest thrombosis might be more frequent, and lest