304 PREGNANCY, PHYSIOLOGY OF As a general rule, Bar found that there was perfect correlation between the needs of foetus foi' chloride of sodiimi and the retention of that salt by the mother ; but the useful and neces- sary degree of retention was soon exhausted (perhaps from a disturbance of the circulation in renal glomeruli). Urobilinaria was not un- common towards the close of pregnancy, but the presence of bile jjigments in the urine was distinctly pathological. There was a slight decrease in the amount of carbon excreted hy the urine at the same period of pregnancy, due probably to an increase in the retention of sugar, fat, acetone, etc. In pregnancy the glycolytic power was lowered and sugar appeared in the urine in about 10 per cent, of primiparas and in about 30 per cent, of multi- paras ; most often it was glucose, but it was sometimes lactose. Bar was of opinion that the foetus demanded from his mother the fat which he fixed, and that a correlation existed between gestational hyperglycremia in the mother and the presence of a large quantity of fat in the foetus. He came to the following conclusions : the glycaemia of pregnancy was in direct relation to foetal glycogenesis, and indirectly to the development of fat in the foetus ; when this glycfemia was proportionate to the power of absorption of the foetus, no glycosuria appeared in the mother; when, however, there was hyperglyctemia, the first result was an increased deposit of fat in the foetus and a large and fat infant was born; and when from any cause (increased glycsemia, morbid states of the foetus, etc.) the passage of sugar through the placenta was insuflicient, glycosuria appeared, the "floating" glucose (so to say) finding no employment. Finally, Bar noted that there was frequently a slight degree of acetonnria when the pregnant woman was quite healthy and even Avhen the foetus was not dead. By his prolonged and valuable researches Bar has shown that the physiological condition of pregnancy is a special one and one in which there is a very delicate and easily disturbed equilibrium in the metabolic processes of the body. Under ordinarj^ circumstances, for a healthy mother carrying a healthy foetus and supplied with sufiicient food, the period of pregnancy is not one of sacrifice ; indeed, undei' the best conditions, she may draw pro- fit from it; but deviations from the normal are easily set up and may have the most serious effects, among which we must specially keep in mind nitrogenous disassimilation with hyperazotuT'ia and gastro-intestinal dis- turbance, decalcification, and excessive haemo- lysis with cholaemia, etc. It is by means of scientific investigations, such as these, that we may yet be able successfully to combat such serious maladies of pregnancy as hyper- emesis, icterus, albuminuria, and eclampsia. Pregnancy, Pathology of. Traumatism and Surgical Operations 304 Accidents ...... 304 Ovariotomy...... 305 Myomectomy . . . '. . 305 Digestive Disorders .... 305 Appendicitis ..... 305 Hyperemesis . ... 305 Acute Yelloiv AtropJiy of Liver . . 306 Renal Disorders . . 307 Several important sections of this volume have already been devoted to the consideration of the pathology of pregnancy, vide the articles on Abortion, Antenatal Pathology, Chorea Gravidarum, Eclampsia, and Ectopic Preg- nancy ; but there remain certain other sections dealing with morbid states associated with gestation to which some space must here be given. Traumatism and Surgical Operations DURING Pregnancy.—The list of cases of grave injury during pregnancy has been added to during recent years, and amongst the recorded cases are several in which gestation was not interrupted although the traumatism was of a very serious nature. R. P. Harris drew attention to this abdominal and uterine tolerance in pregnant women as shown by the low rate of mortality under severe lacerated and other wounds, in a book published in Philadelphia in 1892; and of recent years several striking confirmatory cases have occurred. Gloninger {Phil. Med. Joiirn., viii. p. 9.38, 1901), for instance, reported a pistol- shot wound of the stomach, liver, and trans- verse colon in a pregnant woman, with recovery and delivery at term ; Dreyfoos {Lancet-Clinic, n. s. liv. p. 162, 1905) put on record a case of fracture of the base of the skull in a pregnant woman, with recovery, and without the occur- rence of abortion ; and Wyder {Corr.-Bl. f. Schweiz. Aerzte, xxxv. p. 429, 1905) met with the case of a patient (pregnant at term) who fell from a second floor window and received a wound of the head, dislocation of the head of the left radius, and fracture of the pelvis, and who was spontaneously and normally delivered 6 days later, with recovery. To these might be added the remarkable cases of Steele (Surg., Gynec, and Obstet., vi. p. 293, 1908), Smirnoff, {Prakt. VracK ii. p. 1101, 1903), and Hood {Brooklyn Med. Journ., xvi. p. 395, 1902); but it may be regarded as fully proven that severe injuries, even when they affect the abdomen, need not necessarily lead to the premature termination of pregnancy or to the death of the mother or foetus. At the same time much depends upon the skill of the surgeon who is called upon to deal with the case and upon the asepsis of his technique. Having in mind the experiences recorded above and others like