CESAREAN SECTION 76 partum hfemorrhage; the mother's in Riihl's and Bumm's cases recovered. F. Montuoro (// I'aglio Cesareo ed il Parto Forzato (Genova), p. 190, 1904), thinks that the Bossi dilator gives better results in such cases than CfEsarean section, abdominal or vaginal. It is not very easy to forecast the future in regard to this indication for Ceesarean section ; for accidental hfemorrhage may be so serious a complication of pregnancy and labour as to justify extreme measures. There is, however, an evident reluctance among obstetricians to perform the conservative abdominal operation in these rare cases, and a tendency to remove the uterus (supravaginal hysterectomy) or to have recourse to vaginal Cesarean section (anterior hysterotomy). (3) Eclampsia.—It has been stated elsewhere (.see Eclampsia) that whilst vaginal Cesarean section has been widely adopted in the treat- ment of eclampsia, the ordinary abdominal operation has been little used, and has gener- ally had unfortunate results. Montuoro {op. cit., pp. 106-109), writing in the year 1904, was able, however, to give a list of sixty-two cases, in most of which the conservative Cfesarean section was performed (the Porro method was used in four cases), with a maternal mortality of thirty-iive (56 per cent.), an immediate foetal mortality of 27*5 per cent, and a later one of 36'3 per cent. Obviously this is a very high mortality, and it can hardly be fully explained by the state- ment that only the most serious cases of eclampsia ai-e submitted to Csesarean section. Notwithstanding the large number of deaths that have occurred, " there is now," writes Munro Kerr {Operative Midwifery, p. 404, 1908), "a general consensus of opinion that in certain cases—they are, of course, few in number — Cajsarean section is not only per- missible, but is actually the treatment indi- cated ;" further, the cases are those in which " the eclamptic seizui-es are of great severity and frequency in the later weeks of pregnancy, and, above all, when the cervix is not taken up and is very rigid and undilatable." (4) Contracted Pelvic.—Pelvic deformity is, of course, no new indication for the performance of Csesarean section ; the novelty consists in the extension of the range of applicability of the opei-ation. It is now generally admitted that a true conjugate of less than 2^ inches is an absolute indication for Cesarean section; but what of the pelvis with a conjugata vera of '2\, 2i, or more 1 Two somewhat opposed tenden- cies are in existence at the pi'esent time, and their opposition makes it difficult to answer the above question definitely and directly. In the first place, there is the assertion which is constantly being made that craniotomy or embryulcia in the case of tho living fretus is unjustifiable, and the conclusion would appear to be that in all the cases in which craniotom}^ was formerly performed, and in which the foetus is alive, Cesarean section should be substituted. Theoretically, and from the high ethical stand- point, this is the only conclusion to which one can come; to save a mother from certain death it may be justifiable to destroy her unborn infant, but to do it simply in order to diminish the risk of delivery when the risk is not more than, say, 8 or 10 per cent., is indefensible. On the other hand, however, there is a tendency which is becoming more accentuated to refuse the Csesarean section to women who come under treatment when advanced in labour and having been previously interfered with. Munro Kerr {op. cit., p. 404, 1908) writes : "In recent years 1 have made it a rule never to perform Csesarean section in cases which have been interfered with prior to their coming under the care of myself or my assistants, unless the deformity of the pelvis is so extreme as to render craniotomy impossible, or more dangerous to the mother than Cesarean section; I am compelled, there- fore, not infrequently to perforate a living child." Further, there is the difficulty of obtain- ing the consent of the patient or her husband to the performance of Csesarean section, while the facility with which one is permitted to do craniotomy is notorious. About this matter Galabin says {Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1902, p. 1125): "A doctor may refuse to perform repeated inductions of abortion for contracted pelvis, and he may decline to attend a labour if the patient is unwilling to follow his advice; but having engaged to attend, and labour hav- ing begun, may he refuse to perform embryo- tomy, if he thinks Csesarean section the right treatment, and throw up the case if the patient refuses to accept his advice? I should say certainly not, unless he is sure that the patient can obtain other assistance, and I should not myself approve such a course in any case." Now, if one places these opinions fairly before one's mind, the conclusion would seem to be that it is not possible at once to make a clean sweep of craniotomy upon the living foetus, but that it is desirable that its performance should be strictly limited, and that it be gradually replaced by Csesarean section or by the induc- tion of premature labour (in a sul)sequent preg- nancy). In order that this change in practice may l)e brought about, the obstetric specialist must still further reduce the mortality follow- ing Csesarean section; and, in order that he may play his part, the general practitioner must make an early diagnosis of disproportion between the foetal head and the maternal pelvis in his confinement cases, must refrain from interference with forceps and other attempts at delivery, and must indeed send his patient to the specialist, or bring the latter to her, before the commencement of the second stage of labour. Obviously the diagnosis duiing pregnancy of so