TUBERCULOSIS 378 made about every tenth or fourteenth day. Wright begins with a dose of not more than i^-fyjy mgr. T.R. and never advances to doses of more than -g^^ mgr. While it is probably the case that the ad- ministration of tubercalin can be better con- trolled by estimations of the opsonic index than by any other method, it is apparent that if such estimations are held to be essential to the safe use of the remedy, many patients must be deprived of its benefits, on account of the laborious nature of opsonic methods. Moreover, the soundness of the opsonic theory is not unquestioned, and a clear distinction mast be made between the value of the opsonic index on the one hand, and the value of vaccine therapy on the other. Whether the opsonic theory stands or falls, the value of antituber- culous vaccination must and will be settled on its own merits. Many, probably most, phy- sicians who employ tuberculin are guided as to dosage by the general principles deduced by Wright, and by the clinical observation of each case. It is probably inadvisable to employ tuberculin except in apyrexial tuberculosis. The patient should remain in bed under ob- servation for some days before treatment begins, and for some time thereafter until it is certain that he is not reacting imfavourably. The initial dose should be small—o-oV^-y^o mgr. T.R. for adults; -^i^^-^^i^^ mgr. for children. Its eftects, particularly on the tem- perature, should be carefully watched, and it is not repeated, or repeated only in diminished dose, if reaction of any kind follows. Re- inoculations are made at intervals of ten to fourteen days. This method of administration —the clinical method—is that generally adopted in America and Germany. There, however, larger doses (-5^ mgr.) are used to begin, and are increased up to several milligrams. Treatment by tuberculin must be continued for several months to yield good results. Tuberculin is contra-indicated by persistent pyrexia above 99-S", by persistent rapidity of the pulse (over 100), by rapid wasting, by miliary tuberculo.sis or tuberculous meningitis, and by haemoptysis. Nephritis and epilepsy are further contra-indications. In the preceding remarks reference has been made only to T.R., because this is the favourite preparation in this country, and is probably used many times as often as all the other tuberculins put together. The principles underlying the use of tuberculin are, however, the same whichever be chosen. Sahli, in a recent review, expresses the opinion that, how- ever obtained—O.T., T.R., Beraneck's tuber- culin, B.F., etc.—tuberculin is essentially the same; the skill of the physician using it is more important than the brand employed. The following are the doses of some of the other tuberculins:— Koch's Old Tuberculin, y^Q-j^o mgr. increas- ing to 1000 mgr. Reactions are said to occur chiefly after the earlier, small, doses; if this period be passed over there is less likelihood of reactions occurring. The intervals between the early inoculations are short—only a few days; between the later, large, doses, several weeks. Dosage increases rapidly—e.g. mgr., mgr., 1 mgr., 5 mgr., 10 mgr., 25 mgr., etc. BacilJen Emulsion, Tjo^^-yTy^oTT creasing to a maximum of 5 mgr. Deny's Tuberculin, j-^^j^ mgr. rising gradu- ally to 1 mgr. Beraneck's Tuberculin is praised by R. W. Philip and Sahli. The former begins with a dose of '1 c.c. of a 1:100,000 solution. Injec- tions are made at intervals of three to fourteen days, the effects being gauged by careful re- cords of the temperature, pulse, general con- dition of the patient, and local manifestations. Regular estimation of the opsonic index i& unnecessary. It is desirable to repeat the same dose more than once, so as to make sure that no reaction has been missed. If an ex- ternal surgical lesion is being treated, the direct injection of a stronger solution ('l c.c. of 1:100) may be made. This is not repeated until all local reaction (if any) has subsided ;; if there is no reaction the dose may be in- creased by tenths of a cubic centimetre. T.R. has been used as a 5 per cent, ointment in the local treatment of lupus. In cases of tuberculosis, which fail to respond to T.R., and in which there is the possibility of infection with the bovine virus—e.g. in abdominal tuberculosis —Perlsucht tuberculin (P.T.R.) may be tried (cf. Raw's opinion, antea, p. 375). When there is a mixed injection, as- in pulmonary phthisis, it is advisable to com- bine tuberculin with the appropriate vaccine treatment. Recently tuberculin has been used by oral and rectal administration, and good results have been reported by some. Antituberculous Serums.—Attempts to pro- duce efficient antiserums have failed. Marag- liano's serum and Marmoreck's serum are the best-known members of this class. It is not possible to estimate the real benefit of tuberculin treatment by statistics. Most physicians and surgeons who have employed it have convinced themselves that it does good in properly-selected cases. The fact that it has- now overcome the prejudice which its use ex- cited in the early nineties is perhaps the best proof that it is really a valuable remedj'. LITERATURE. — The literature of opsonins and antituberculous inoculation is very large, and numerous papers will be found in the journals from 1903 onwards. The following papers may be referred to :—A. E. Wright, Lancet, 2nd Dec. 1905.—TRunEAU, Amer. Journ. Med. Sci., Aug. 1906.—Latham (T.R. by mouth), Proc. Roy. Soc. Med., i. p. 195, 1908.—Riviere (children). Tuberculosis in Infancy and Childhood, ed. Kelynack