RECTAL irritation of the bowel on account of impurities {e.g. H2SO4), but pure dextrose is free from this drawback. Alimentary glycosuria is not produced by its use Boyd found that in his cases the value of the food absorbed varied between 240 and 645 calories per diem, the average (389 calories) being only a quarter of the amount necessary, on the lowest com- putation, to maintain equilibrium. Even under very favourable circumstances rectal feeding is subnutrition of the most pronounced character. Given a patient in poor condition, it cannot be relied on to produce any material improvement—as, for example, in preparing patients suffering from pyloric or oesophageal obstruction for operation. The gain in weight which may, and often does, occur is due to absorption of water; the best results are got' from enemata of sugar and fat; the absorption of proteid is so poor as to deprive this sub- stance of any value. For practical purposes a good enema consists of:—Yolk of two eggs; 30 grm. pure dextrose; 0'5 grm. salt; pan- creatised milk to 300 c.c. The approximate value of such an enema is 300 calories; given every 6 hours, the total represents 1200 calories, of which 500 might be absorbed under favourable circumstances. The method of ad- ministration is important. Nutrient enemata should never be given with a syringe, but should be slowly siphoned in with a small catheter and funnel. If the bowel is irritable, a small dose of morphia may be added. A daily cleansing saline injection is absolutely necessary. If an enema be given slowly, from 8 to 10 ozs. can be retained, and the patient absorbs sufficient water to quench thirst. Edsall arrives at very similar conclusions as to the limitations of rectal feeding. He suggests that in future better results may be looked for by work in the following directions : —Improvements in the emulsification of fat; the use of the ultimate digestion products of proteins — amino-acids, etc. ; replacement of sugars by dextrins; the introduction of sub- stances which tend to produce reverse peris- talsis, and to pass through the ileo-csecal valve into the small intestine. In patients fed exclusively by the rectum secondary parotitis may occur. The side first affected is determined to a great extent by the position assumed by the patient, the gland which is most frequently in contact with the pillow being first attacked (Soltau Fenwick). An examination of the pus obtained from the abscess in the parotid, should suppuration occur, shows a variety of micro-organisms, the most constant of which—s. pyogenes aureus and m. lanceolatus—are also present in the thick secretions of the mouth. This secondary parotitis is most likely to occur when nothing at all, not even water, is allowed by the mouth, as in the treatment of haemorrhage FEEDING 321 from a gastric ulcer. Oral starvation seems to be the principal factor in producing this parotitis. It depends on oral sepsis, with an ascending infection of Stenson's duct, the ascending infection being favoured by the lessened flow of saliva, and the difficulty in keeping the mouth sweet, when the functions of mastication and insalivation are in abeyance. RoUeston and Oliver state that it occurs ten and a half times more frequently in cases of gastric ulcer treated by absolute oral starvation than where water is allowed by the mouth. It is not prevented by antiseptic mouth-washes. Fenwick adopts the method of giving to the patients horse-radish, pellitory, or pieces of raw meat to chew, so as to promote a flow of saliva and prevent an ascending infection. A rubber teat is equally satisfactory. He states that where, as previously, a very large number of cases fed solely on large nutrient enemata developed secondary parotitis, he has not met with it once in his last 300 cases since adopting this simple device. REFERENCES.—Boyd and Robertson, Scott. Med. and Surg. Journ., March 1906.—RoLLESTON and Oliver, Brit. Med. Journ., •29th May 1909.—Soltau Fenwick, ibid.—Edsall, A7ner. Journ. Med. Sci., Nov. 1906. RectoneS.—Nutrient and medicated sup- positories, containing, among other things, peptonised beef, peptonised milk, cocaine, hydro- chloride, glycerine, renaglandin, lead and opium, morphine, and bismuth subgallate. Red Degeneration. — A form of necrosis sometimes found in fibroid tumours of the uterus, and especially during the course of pregnancy. " Red Water."—See Protozoa. Reed's Operation. —See Broad Liga- ments OF THE Uterus. Reflexes.—Since the great diagnostic importance of Babinski's sign (extensor plantar response) has been recognised several other reflexes connected with the foot have been described, but none of them is so generally useful as Babinski's. Oppenheim and White ^ have both pointed out that in many cases Babinski's sign may be elicited by stimulation of the skin of the middle of the leg, or the inside of the thigh, as well as by stroking the sole of the foot. Gordon's Paradox Flexor Reflex" is a reflex extension of the great toe produced by firm pressure on the relaxed muscles of the calf. The reflex does not occur in health; it has the same significance as an extensor plantar response—disease of the pyramidal tracts. To elicit the paradox flexor reflex the patient is seated with his feet on a low stool,