SEROTHERAPY 337 must not be administered until bacteriological evidence is forthcoming. When antistrepto- coccus is used 20 c.c. of polyvalent serum should be given and repeated in twenty-four hours. If there is no obvious improvement different brands should be chosen for the second and later injections. Among other bacterial diseases for which antiserums have been prepared are pneumonia, typhoid (Chantemesse's serum), rheumatism (Menger's serum), tuberculosis (Marmoreck's serum), and dysentery. Evidence of the efficacy of these serums is absent. Sclavo's anti- anthrax serum is in a better position ; there is some reason for believing that it is of value. Anti-tetanus serum is also of undoubted benefit in some cases of the disease {see Tetanus). Of analogous, though non-bacterial, remedies, Dunbar's antitoxin for hay fever {see Hay Fever), and Mcebius's serum for exophthalmic goitre, may also be mentioned {see Graves's Disease). Much information on serum therapy will be found in Bosanquet and Eyre's Serums, Vaccines, and Toxines in Treatment and Diagnosis, 2nd edit., London, 1910, which contains many references. Vaccine therapeutics is discussed most admirably and succinctly in T. J. Border's Clinical Pathology iii Practice, London, 1910. Many papers on vaccines, including several from A. E. Wright's Laboratory, will be found in the files of the Lancet and British Medical Journal for the past few years. The literature is extensive, and cannot be given at length in this place. See also art. Immunity. Shock, Treatment of.—Following upon the enunciation of the statement by Crile that the one essential character of conditions of shock is a low blood pressure, certain new principles have been introduced into its treat- ment whether it occur after operations, after labour, after severe injuries, or in connection with the administration of anaesthetics. The use of ether (for its pressor action) is therefore recommended in place of chloroform as an anaesthetic. Then, during and before the administration of the anaesthetic, saline trans- fusion is highly spoken of, and the extract of the pituitary gland (pituitary fluid (Duncan), or pituitary extract (B. M''. & Co.), or pitu- itrin) may be given for the prevention of shock. When shock has actually developed the patient's head must be kept low, the limbs and abdomen should be bandaged, saline in- jections should be freely given (subcutaneous or intravenous), and either adrenalin or, pre- ferably, extract of the infundibular portion of the pituitary gland should be injected hypo- dermically. Both adrenalin and pituitary fluid raise the blood pressure and increase the arterial tone, but the efl'ect of the former soon passes off, whilst that of the latter is more permanent; for this reason the latter is pre- ferable. In this system of treatment neither strychnine nor stimulants find a place ; in fact, morphine in small doses is said to be of more value than any stimulants. There is much experimental evidence in favour of this new plan of dealing with shock, and if clinical results prove satisfactory the whole treatment of this dangerous complication of operations will be revolutionised. See Wray, G. G., Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1909, p. 1745; Rowell, G., Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1910, p. 757 ; Crile, G. W., ibid., p. 758 ; Mummery, P. L., ibid., p. 759 ; Malcolm, J. D., ibid., p. 760; Adami, Pathology, i. p. 580, 1910. SiCCOi—An organic preparation of iron, forming a brown soluble powder, and said to contain 89-52 per cent, of protein, -332 per cent, organic iron, 2 6 per cent, salts, and "ll per cent. fat. See Fortescue-Brickdale, Newer Remedies, p. 68, 1910. Side-Chain Theory.—See Immunity {Theories). Siroiin.—A 10 per cent, solution of thiocol in syrup, given in doses of a tea to a table-spoonful in phthisis. "Six Hundred and Six" (606) — See Syphilis {Treatment). Sjoqvist iVIethod.—A plan for deter- mining the amount of urea in urine, also known as the Morner-Sjoqvist method; it consists in the use of a baryta mixture, the effect of which is to leave no nitrogenous body save urea in the urine; the nitrogen is next determined and the urea calculated therefrom. See Webster, Diagnostic Methods, p. 213, 1909. Skin Diseases. Bier's Hyper^mic Treatment . . 337 Radium Treatment .... 338 Staphylococcal Vaccines . . . 338 Bier's Congestion Treatment as used in various surgical conditions is also applicable to skin diseases. It will be found helpful in all acute and chronic suppurative conditions associ- ated with the finger nails, and especially in the chronic indolent perionychia so often seen in delicate strumous children. A piece of lint is wrapped round the base of the finger, and then a thin elastic band applied for one hour night and morning. If any pain is caused it shows that the elastic band is too tight and should be loosened. By applying it to each finger separately better results are obtained than by putting on an elastic bandage higher up the limb. This method of treatment is also very 22