EDITORIAL T^OTE Ik accordance with the promise made in the tenth volume of Green's Encyclopedia and Dictionary of Medicine and Surgery the first supplementary volume to that work now makes its appearance. Five years have nearly passed since the first volume of the Encyclopedia and Dictionary issued from the press, so that the present instalment may he regarded as the first of a series of quinquennial surveys of the whole field of medical practice, setting forth the notable advances which have taken place, and forming a reliable guide to the new methods of treatment which have come into use, and which seem likely to remain as permanent additions to oui" resources for healing disease and for alleviating suffering. The same plan of construction as was employed for the ten volumes of the Encyclopedia and. Dictionary has been used here. The subject headings, which nixmber 1254, group themselves in three categories. There are first the elaborate articles of more than 1000 words in length, of whicli there are 96 ; these deal with such subjects as Abdominal Section, Abortion, Accouchement Force, Acidosis, Anassthesia, Antenatal Pathology, Aphasia, Arterial Hypertonirs, Arteries (Suture of), Arterio-Sclerosis, Atniocausis, Bier's Method of Treatment, Bladder (Female), Blood, Blood-Pressure, Ctesarean Section, Caisson Disease, Cancer, Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis, Cervical Ribs, Chloroma, Chorea, Chorea Gravidarum, Constipation (Surgical Treatment of), Cranio-Cleido-Dysostosis, Dementia Prseccx, Diabetes, Digestion, Digestive Functions (Tests), Drugs (Recent), Eclampsia, Ectopic Pregnancy, Embryotomy, Eugenics, Fractures, Gall Bladder and Bile Ducts (Diseases), Gonorrhoea (Treatment), Heart (Diseases), Heart (Surgery of), Heredity, Hyperclilorhydria, Hypnoidal State, Immunity, Infant Feeding, Infantile Atropliy, Infantilism, Intestines (Surgery of), Ionic Medica- tion), Jaundice (Congenital), Kala-Azar, Kidneys (Surgery of), Labour (Induction), Labour (Manage- ment), Labour (Post-partum HtiemoiThage), Leu- kjemia, Lumbar Puncture, Lungs and Thorax (Surgery of), Menstruation, Menstruation (Morbid), Multiple Myeloma, Natality and Depopulation, etc., etc. Even the reading over of the names of these articles will fasten the mind upon the directions in which the main currents of medical advance have been moving in these past five years, whilst the close study of them will do much to make tiie medical practitioner conversant with the latest and best means at his hand for the prosecution of his beneficent art. A second group of articles, of less than 1000 _ words but of more than ten lines in length, con- tains references to many interesting, if less vitally important, matters. They number 193. Amongst these may be named Abiotrophy, Abrams's Heart Reflex, Achylia Gastrica, Acromegaly (Surgical Treatment), Adrenal Glands. Aggressins, Alcohol- ism (Quinquaud's Sign and Korsakoff's Psychosis), AUochiria, Altmann's Granule.?, Anfemia (Pernicious and Aplastic), Anaphylaxis, Anaplasia, Aneurism (Surgical Treatment), Antitryptic Index, Apraxia, Arterio-Venous Anastomosis, Babinski's Sign (No. 2), Bang System, Biotripsis, Blackwater Fever, Blastoma, Boy-Scout Movement, Brill's Disease, Bi'oad Ligaments of the Uterus, Camptodactyly, Carcinoma Cutis, Cardiolysis, Cataphoresis, Cere- bellum (Tumours), Christian Science, Chroniato- phores. Convulsions in Infancy, Curettage, Danyscz's ! Phenomenon, Degenerates (Sterilisation of), Diet ! (Purin Free), Diversion of Complement, Dupuy- tren's Contraction, Eclampsisin, Elastoid Degenera- tion, Embryocardia, Emmanuel Movement, Endo- carditis (Chronic Infective), Enterogenous Cyanosis, Ersatz Theory, Erythrtemia, Faith Healing, Fibro- lysin, Frohlich's Syndrome, Fulguration, Funi- culitis (Endemic), Gastric Ulcer, Gastrostaxis, " Gouttes de Lait," Graves's Disease, Grocco's Sign, ! Grouse Disease, Heemoglobinuria (Paroxysmal), j Hiemorenal Salt Index, HEeniostasis (Momburg's \ Method), Hay Fever, Herpes Zoster, Hirschsprung's Disease, Histoplasmosis, Hormones, Hylomas, Ilosvay Reagent, Inoscopy, Kangri Cancer, Karell Cure, Kataplasia, Labour (Forceps in), Lepidomas, 1 Light-touch Palpation, Lipoids, Liver (Cirrhosis, Surgical Treatment), Lupus Erythematosus, Made- lung's Disease, Malt Exti'acts, Meningism, etc., etc. The rest of the rubrics (965 in number) stand over short articles of the nature of definitions, brief descriptions, and, in some cases, of cross references. Under the headings Abadie's Sign, Ahrin, Acariasis, Acconci's Method, Acetomorp)hine, Achilles Jerk, Acholuric Jaundice, '''■Acid Control," Acroteric,