164 GLIOSARCOMA intercellular glial fibrils ; glioma sarcomatosum. See Adami, Pathology, i. pp. 757, 773, 1910. Glossina Morsi tans.—Another species of tsetse-fly (in addition to y. palpalis) which has been regarded as capalsle of transmit- ting the tiypanosoma gamliiense. See also Sleeping Sickness. Glossina Palpalis. — The tsetse-fly. See Sleeping Sickness. Glucaphen.—A proprietary food pre- paration described as containing the proteid ingredients of milk and wheat combined with suitable small doses of glycerophosphates. For analysis, see Lancet, vol. i. for 1909, p. 1465. Glutamic Acid.—An amino-acid which has been produced synthetically; also known as amidoglutaric acid (CHciNOj). GlutariC Acid.—A crystalline dibasic acid (CsHsO,). Glutei ins.—Simple proteins occurring in the seeds of cereals, readily soluble in very dilute acids and alkalies but insoluble in all neutral solvents. Gluten Bread.—See Diabetes (Diet). Gluten Meal.—A proprietary food pre- paration, whose analysis is published in the British Medical Journal (i. for 1910, p. 1241. Glutoform.—An antiseptic, known also as glutol; it is formaldehyde gelatin. Gluzinski'sTest.—A test for carcinoma of the stomach based upon variations in the amount of free hj'drochloric acid in the stomach contents—viz, in the fasting stomach, forty-five minutes after a test breakfast, and four hours after a full meal. See Webster, Diagnostic Methods, p. 89, 1909. GI y CO p rote ins.—Con j ugated proteins (i.e. those in which " the protein moiety is united to some molecule or molecules of another order otherwise than as a salt"), in which the non-protein part is a substance or sub- stances containing a carbohydrate group other than nucleic acid, e.g. mucins and mucoids, amyloid, etc. Gold horn's Stain. — Polychrome methylene blue ; used in staining the spiro- chaeta pallida, etc. Gonorrhoea.— Vaccine Treatment.—Eyre and Stewart (Lancet, 1909, ii. p. 76) advise auto- genous vaccines; failing this, a polyvalent vaccine made from five or ten stock cultures. The initial dose is followed by an exacerbation then rapid lessening of the discharge. They summarise their results thus :—" I. Acute Gonorrhoea. — 1. Gonococcus vaccine is markedly toxic and exerts a profound in- fluence over the disease. 2. For routine work (hospital out-patients, etc.), vaccine treatment is not devoid of danger, and requires the exercise of considerable caution. 3. A stock vaccine, comprising a dozen different strains, gives results only slightly inferior to those observed when using a vaccine prepared from the patient's own organism. This is not the rule in most other diseases. 4. Small doses, repeated at short intervals, are more effective than large doses at lengthened intervals. 5. Small doses of vaccine (from 1,000,000 to 10,000,000 cocci) are safer and more satisfactory than the large doses (from 50,000,000 to 100,000,000) which are often prescribed. 6. After an injection of from 500,000 to 2,000,000 the negative phase is either absent or extremely transient. 7. An inoculation of from 5,000,000 to 10,000,000 causes a negativephase of usuallynot longer than forty-eight hours' duration, followed by a positive phase of from three to five days. 8. Vaccine in small doses serves the douljle purpose of raising and steadying the opsonic index. A steady index just above normal is found to be the most favourable con- dition for rapid recovery. " II. Simple Chronic Gonorrhoia.—1. Where the gonococcus has ceased to be the infecting organism, these cases are on a par with other chronic inflammatory states, but are frequently more difficult to cure owing to environment and local conditions. 2. Chronic cases, where the gonococcus is the sole infecting organism, have a better prognosis from the point of view of treatment by vaccine than a mixed infection or one of staphylococcus only. "III. Chronic Gonorrhoea with Complications. —1. The estimation of the opsonic index is helpful to diagnosis, and is a useful means of determining approximately the opsonic state of the blood. Chronic gonococcus infections, however, present clinical features which them- selves afford valualjle indications during the course of vaccine treatment. 2. Where the gonococcus alone is the infecting organism, if the opsonic index cannot be obtained as fre- quently as is desirable, routine injections of from 1,000,000 to 2,000,000 cocci every three to five days, are safe and satisfactory ; a lapse of five to seven days after doses of 5,000,000 : an interval of eight to ten days after inoculation of 10,000,000. Larger doses than these are seldom desirable. 3. Treatment by small and gradually increasing doses at fre- quent intervals should at all times be observed ; the use of large doses is even more dangerous than in acute cases, and may be followed by