GONORRHCEA 165 disastrous consequences. 4. In orchitis small closes of vaccine quickly relieve pain and cause a more rapid abatement of symptoms than is obtained by the usual routine treatment alone. 5. In iritis the severe pain, which is a marked and obstinate feature, is relieved in forty-eight hours after an injection, and dis- appears in from three to four days ; cure is much hastened. 6. In arthritis the treatment is of considerable value." Treatment of Gonorrhoea by Bier^s Method.— Miles has applied the principle of Bier's method to the treatment of gonorrhoea affecting the anterior urethra. He employs a glass cylinder about 7 ins. long and 2 ins. in diameter, closed at one end, and with a small lateral tube near the blind end. Over the open end is fitted a conical rubber flange, with a thick rubber ring- let into its narrow free edge. The bell is exhausted by a metal pump attached by a tube to the lateral tube. After the patient has passed water the flange is applied ai'ound the penis as far back as possible, and then the bell is passed over the penis and the wide end of the flange is passed over it, so as to make an air-tight joint. Air is aspirated by three or four strokes of the pump. The penis at once passes into a state of priapism and some drops of pus exude from the meatus. The vacuum should not be great enough to cause pain. In from ten to fifteen minutes air is allowed to enter the bell, and after a five minutes' interval a vacuum is again established. Two or three applications constitute one sitting, lasting about an hour. The bell should be used once daily, not oftener. The results, as regards the discharge, are to increase the polymor- phonuclear leucocytes and the intracellular cocci—local leucocytosis and phagocytosis. The method is more cleanly than that by injec- tions ; it is also available in phimosis, when injection cannot be used. Pain on micturition is relieved by the second day ; frequent micturition becomes less. Chordee does not occur. The purulent discharge ceases in about fourteen days, and the gleet usually in another week. Complications were almost absent in the 300 cases treated in this v/ay. Epididymitis occurred twice only, the average percentage being from 11 to 30 per cent, among hospital, and 3 to 8 per cent, among private patients. There was no case of acute prostatitis, abscess, cystitis, or periurethral abscess. Gonorrhceal arthritis occurred twice ; in one of these patients the great majority of the gonococci were extracellular—evidence that the opsonic power was unusually low. Internal treatment with sandalwood oil or copaiva seems to be of additional benefit. The treatment is applicable only to acute anterior gonorrhoea ; when posterior urethritis was also present the effect of applying Klapp's bell over the perineum was tried in conjunction with the penis tube, but the results were inde- finite [Edin. Med. Journ., June 1910). Gordon's Paradox Flexor Re- flex.—'Vee Reflexes. Goundou.—A disease of the nose in which osteoplastic periostitis causes bony swell- ings producing marked disfigur ement; it is believed to be due to a fly entering the nose and perhaps depositing its larvae there ; it is common on the Gold Coast, but Shircore has reported a case in Nyassaland, British Central Africa {Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1910, p. 503). "Gouttes de Lait" Cong^resses. —Congresses which are held from time to time on the Continent, with a view to extending the work of the institution known as the Goutte de lait (literally, drops of milk), which is represented in this country by the infant's milk depots established by munici- palities in several large towns ; the first Inter- national Congress was held in Paris in 1905, and the second in Brussels in 1907 ; the pur- pose of the Goutte de lait is to give advice to mothers, to encourage breast-feeding, and to distribute milk to those infants who are unable to get breast milk, or who can only get pai'tly fed in that way, but there is a tendency to widen the scope of the work so as to include all the questions relating to the protection of child life (prevention of infantile mortality) and to make the Goutte de lait really a school for mothers ; a medical practitioner is in attendance to weigh and examine the babies once a week, and the mothers are encouraged to let them be so examined by having milk in bottles supplied to them, and by receiving advice regarding their own health, etc. The Goutte de lait is one of the means employed in puericulture. Granose.—A proprietary food prepara- tion in the form of biscuits said to consist of the "entire kernels of choice wheat." For analysis, see report in Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1910, p. 1242. Grape Nuts.—A proprietary food pre- paration, described as a "fully cooked, pre- cligested breakfast food." An analysis (Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1910, p. 1210) showed protein, 11 "2 per cent., fat 0'6 per cent., water 5'1 per cent., ash 2-0 per cent.; and carbohy- drate, by difference, 81-1 per cent.; the calorie value was given as 3 •84. It has an agreeable flavour. Graves' Disease. — Prognosis. — In this disease there is a reduction of the poly- nuclear leucocytes, and an increased proportion