365 SYPHILIS abolition of the reaction is not due to the direct presence of the drug in the patient's blood serum. Action in Congenital Syphilis.—The interest- ing observation has been made that the infants of syphilitic nursing mothers benefit by the injection of the mother with " 606." This is not due to the drug passing over in the milk (for analysis has failed to show its presence in milk), but is probably due to the production of antitoxins in the mother's body from the great destruction of spirochtetes. Possible Evil Effects. — Several thousand patients have now been treated with arseno- benzol, and the misadventures have been sur- prisingly few. In particular, blindness, the most dreaded consequence of the use of atoxyl, has not been observed. Three deaths are recorded : two were in marasmic infants badly tainted with hereditary syphilis ; the other in a patient with extensive cerebral disease. Retention of urine, which occurred in the practice of one user of the drug, was probably not due to the arseno-benzol, but to the use of impure methyl alcohol in dissolving it. Indications and Contra-indications. — The chief contra-indications are—(1) advanced cere- bral mischief; (2) non-syphilitic diseases of the retina or optic nerve ; (3) advanced renal, cardiac, or pulmonary (except tuberculous) disease. The indications are—(1) syphilis, including early parasyphilis, especially malig- nant cases, cases intolerant of or refractory to mercury, tuberculosis and syphilis, visceral syphilis, including epilepsy. " 606 " in other Diseases.—Iversen reports very favourably of its effect on relapsing fever. A single injection cuts short the attack in from seven to twenty hours, and in 92 per cent, of his patients it entirely prevented a relapse. Spirilla disappeared from the blood in four to ten hours. It is also said to be an active anti-malarial, especially in the intermittent forms of the disease. A single dose of "6 gram removes the Plasmodium from the circulating peripheral blood in twenty-four hours. Literature.—A large number of papers on " 606 " will be found in the Miinchener med. Woch. for 1910, from 15th March onward. The files of the Deutsche Medizinische Wochenschrift for the latter half of the year also contain a number. An admirable summary by Ehrlich, Hata, and Hoppe and Schreiber, dealing with the theoretical, experimental, and clinical aspects of the question (on which this sum- mary is largely based) will be found in the Verhandlungen d. 11 ten Kongresses f. inn. Med., Wiesbaden, 1910, p. 242 et seq. As the remedy has chiefly been employed in Germany, the number of English papers on the subject is small by comparison. Indian Ink Method of detecting the Spirochcete Pallida.—A very simple method of detecting the spirochsete pallida for diagnostic purposes is by the use of Indian ink. The procedure is rapid, demands no elaborate stains or reagents, and is therefore well adapted for clinical work. The suspicious lesion—chancre, etc.—is washed and dried, and a little tissue juice is scraped from it with a sterile instrument. A drop of this is mixed with a drop of Indian ink, and a rather thick smear is made on a slide. It is allowed to dry, and examined without furthei' preparation under an oil immersion lens. Spiro- chsetes show up in white against a dark back- ground. Any cells which are also present show up, and serve to indicate the size of the spirochsetes. Ordinary liquid Indian ink, with an equal quantity of water, answers well, or a specially finely-prepared ink may be pro- cured for the purpose from dealers in microscopic requisites. Ta.ba,COSiS.—The morbid state of the lungs seen in workers in tobacco, and due to the inhalation of the tobacco dust. Ta,nna,COl. — A combination of tannic acid with gelatin ; it has the advantage of being without astringent effect on the gastric mucous membrane. Ta.nna,l. — A basic aluminium tannate, insoluble in water, but soluble in dilute alkalies. Tannalum SolUbile.—This name is given to a soluble tartrate of aluminium and tannin; it is recommended as a gargle, or for the painting of the throat. Ta,n nOCa.se.—A combination of tannic acid with casein; it is broken up in the small intestine without producing any astringent effect on the mucous membrane of the stomach. Tannopin.—A tannic acid derivative, being a compound of hexamethylene-tetramine (urotropin) and tannic acid, constituting a " fine fawn-coloured powder, insoluble in water and weak acids " ; it is tasteless and odourless ; and the dose is from 4 to 15 grains as an astringent and antiseptic. See Fortescue-Brick- dale, Neioer Remedies, p. 84, 1910. Tannothymol.—A condensation pro- duct of tannic acid with thymol and formal- dehyde, forming a powder, insoluble in water and acids, but soluble in alkalies; the dose is 15 grains. TatOO Marks.—The following method of removing tatoo marks is given by Park (Principles and Practice of Modern Surgery, London, 1908, i. p. 318). It is attributed to Ohmann-Dumesnil. Wash the skin with