255 MALT EXTRACTS the starch of the grain is attacked by twoenzymes —cytase and diastase—and converted princi- pally into a mixture of dextrin and maltose "... and " a small proportion of the maltose is further hydrolysed to glucose ;" some malt extracts, further, have glucose added to them, some have dextrin (usually made from potato starch), and others have various preservatives {e.g. salicylic acid, benzoic acid, formaldehyde, glycerine). Ma,ltiCO.—A proprietary food preparation, which is described as " a perfect infant food " ; its analysis is given in the Brit. Med. Jotbrn., i. for 1910, p. 30. Mang^O Juice.—The fruit of the mango may be used as a mild laxative and for its anti- scorbutic properties ; it has been recommended in cases of gout and diabetes (on account of the almost entire absence of sugar); there is a pro- prietary preparation called " preserved mango juice " which is analysed in the Lancet (ii. for 1910, p. 1142); another preparation called mango pulp is reported on in the Brit. Med. Journ. (ii. for 1910, p. 1349). Mania Contionabunda.—A semi- humorous term (Lat. contionnbu7idus, harangu- ing in a public assembly) for the amazing amount of public speaking common at the present time ; the " haranguing disease" ; a " determination of words to the mouth " with "relaxation of the mental sphincter." See editorial in Lancet, ii. for 1910, p. 1775. iViania Errabunda.—A semi humor- ous term (Lat. errabundus, wandering) for the restlessness of modern life, the " running-to- and-fro disease " ; the desii'e wherever one is to go somewhere else immediately. See editorial in Lancet, ii. for 1910, p. 1775. IVIarechait's Test.—A test for bile pigment in urine; a 1 per cent, alcoholic solution of iodine is run into a tube containing a few drops of suspected urine in such a way that it forms a layer on the top of the latter; if bile pigments are present an emerald green colour develops at the point of contact; it is known also as Smith's, Rosin's, or Trousseau's test. iVIarg^i nation.—A stage in inflamma- tion artificially produced when the leucocytes lag behind in the blood current, and finally become adherent to the walls of the blood- vessel. iVIariani's Tonic Coca Wine.— A proprietary tonic wine; for analysis see Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1909, p. 1307. iVIarrow Exhaustion.—A depleted state of the bone marrow, with widened blood spaces and a decrease in the number of cells ; clinical evidence may be aftbrded by leucopenia. See Andrewes, Lancet, ii. for 1910, pp. 86-88. iVIarx'S Fluid.— A staining reagent which contains hydrochlorate of quinine, potas- sium hydrate solution, and eosin. iVIarza Wine. — A proprietary tonic wine, described as " containing iron, phos- phorus, coca, and pepsine " ; analysis in Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1909, p. 1307. IVIassoiette.—A medicated sweetmeat containing the bacillus of Massol, which, when added to milk, develops lactic acid. See Lancet, ii. for 1909, p. 1678 ; Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1910, p. 452. IVIast Cells.—Polymorphonuclear baso- philic leucocytes ; these cells are increased in the so-called mast-cell leucocytosis of myelogenous leukaemia. See also Blood {Pathological Appearances). Matas's Operation.—See Aneurism {Surgical Treatment). Maydl's Operation.—.S'ee Bladder, Female {Ectopia). Mayo'S Operation.—An operation for Hallux Valgus, in which part of the head of the metatarsal bone is removed, and the adventi- tious bursa used to form the new joint. Meat - Packing: Houses. — See Abattoirs. Mechanotherapy. — Osteopathy {q.v.). Medinal.—Sodium veronal, having an advantage over veronal itself onlj^ in being easily soluble in water, and in being capable therefore of being injected intramuscularly, or as an enema; but it has an objection- able taste, and being more rapidl}^ absorbed may set up toxic symptoms in specially sus- ceptible individuals. See Fortescue-Brickdale, Neiver Remedies, p. 165, 1910; T. Forrest, Prescriher (Edinburgh), iii. p. 12, 1909 ; Ebstein, Miinchen. med. Wochnschr., Ivi. p. 136, 1909. Med iterranean Fever — Malta Fever {see also MUHINYO).—The work of the Mediterranean Fever Commission, ap- pointed in 1904, has thrown a great deal of light on the nature of this disease, which is due to the micrococcus melitensis described by Bruce in 1886. In 1897 Wright showed that