MYELOMA 267 MULTIPLE growth involving the marrow of the vertebrae, sternum, and vihs. Males are as, or more, often affected than females ; the disease is one of later middle life. The new growth nearly always remains limited to the skeleton; deformities and fractures may occur; the cord may be compressed; anaemia results from the disturb- ance of the function of the marrow. In one group of cases a peculiar proteid (Bence-Jones's albumose) appears in the urine—myelopathic albumosuria (Kahler's disease). Thetermmultiplemyeloma has been applied to a variety of new growths arising in the marrow, and 7iot giving rise to metastases to other tissues — myelogenic sarcoma, endothelioma, plasmoma, etc. Nothing definite is known as to the cause of myeloma. Rose Bradford draws attention to the possibility of its relationshijJ with ante- cedent syphilis. The leading symptoms may be inferred from the nature of the lesion. Pain in the back or trunk, progressive de- formity of the spine, bending of the sternum, fractures of ribs, and more rarely of other bones, tenderness over the bones, are among the most common. Nervous symptoms—in- crease of the knee-jerks, etc.—may be caused by compression of the cord. Auiemia and cachexia supervene. The ana;mia seems usually to resemble a simple secondary iuisemia, and abnormal cells are not, at least, prominent in the blood. Myelomatosis is always fatal, though not necessarily rapidly so. Bradford mentions cases in which the patients survived for 8 year's aftei' the characteristic albumosuria was discovered. According to Weber, the disease may simu- late osteomalacia, lumbago and rheumatism, spondylosis, spinal caries, secondary malignant disease of the skeleton, pernicious anemia, and nephritis. Osteomalacia tends to attack women during the reproductive period of life ; the pelvis and legs are chiefly affected, and fractures are rare. In spondylosis (see Spondylosis) the rigidity is most marked in the cervical region, and there is no cachexia. In caries the curvature is more angular, and the bone disease does not involve ribs and sternum. There may be other signs of tuberculosis. Secondary new growths are more local, and a primary focus can be discovered. In pernicious aupemia there may be tenderness of the bones, but no deformity. Nephritis is only simulated where albumosuria exists. Bence-Jones's proteid, with the ordinary cold nitric acid, and Esbach's tests, give reactions like albumin. Albumosuria.—Bence-Jones's proteid is pre- cipitated by heating to about 58° C, and on boiling the precipitate diminishes. It also gives a precipitate with cold nitric acid (Heller's test), with hydrochloric acid, and with picric acid, which is also paitially redissolved by heat. It may separate spontaneously, and give the urine a milky colour. Full details of its reactions are given by Drs. Hutchison and MacLeod in their report on Parkes Weber's case. This peculiar proteid may be present in very large amount (15 grams daily). It is believed to arise in the new growth in the marrow. Weber believes that it results from abnormal metabolism or degeneration of cells derived from the myelocyte series, but not from non-myelogenic tumour cells, hence metastatic tumours of the marrow do not give rise to Bence-Jones's albumosuria. Histology.—In Weber's case the marrow of all the bones was afJ'ected by a diffuse sarcoma,, like growths of peculiar cells bearing a certain resemblance to the ordinary neutrophile myelo- cytes, but with smaller nuclei, and larger, more oxyphile, granules. In Professor Muir's opinion the tumour was formed of a special and characteristic type of cell, probably derived either from the neutrophile myelocyte or its predecessor. Christian has more recently studied the histology of 11 cases, and states that the tumour cells bear more resemblance to the bone marrow plasma cells than to the myelocytes. He regards myeloma as a true tmnour, not, as Pappenheim claims, merely the marrow manifestation of a t^ystemic disease. Sternberg divides myelomata into those with cells resembling plasma cells, and those with cells resembling myelocytes, and Weber appears to take a somewhat similar view — "(1) a growth ... in which the bone marrow only is involved ; (2) a growth in which nearly all the cells resemble small or large lymphocytes, and are probably derived from the non-granular predecessors of the myelocytes; in the second tyY>e of ' multiple myeloma' lymphatic glands, as well as bone marrow, may probably be affected." Weber proposes the following scheme for the classification of the whole group of leuksemias and allied diseases :— (a) A new growth of lymphoc3'te-like cells originating in the bone marrow and not over- flowing into the blood - stream — myelogenic pseudo-leukaemia, myelogenic lymphosarcoma, multiple myeloma of the lymphatic type. (b) Similar to (a), but the cells enter the blood-stream — myelogenic lympliocythsemia, acute lymphocythsemia. (c) New growth of lymphocyte - like cells originating in lymph glands or lyniphadenoid tissue elsewhere, not overflowing into the blood- stream—lymphatic or splenic pseudo-leukaemia. Hodgkin's disease. (d) Similar to (c), but cells enter blood-stream —ordinary lymphocythaemia. (e) New growth derived from myelocytes, originating in the marrow ; cells not entering the blood-stream. Sometimes associated with Bence-Jones's albumosuria—multiple myeloma (myelomatosis). (/) Similar to (e), but with myelocytes