ATMOCAUSIS 52 efficacy of atmocausis or zestocausis in these directions is not forthcoming in sufficient amount or with the requisite certainty to enable us to express an emphatic opinion. The last word on the subject would appear to be, that in the vast majority of cases curettage holds its ground as the operation of election, but that atmocausis is of some value when curettage fails (especially in haemorrhages at the menopause, with no well-defined patho- logical state as a cause), when there is a suspicion of haemophilia, and when artificial sterilisation is clearly indicated {e.g. in women suffering from incurable diseases). LITERATURE.—A good account of the literature of the subject is contained in Pincus's work (2nd ed., 1906), and in Slacker's article (loc. cit. supra), up to date of its publication (1902). Some recent articles of importance, not already referred to, may be named here:—Baisch. Zentralh. f. Gynak., xxx. p. 16, 1906. •—FucHS. Monatsschr. f. Geburtsh. u. Gyndk., xxiv. 'p. 487, 1906.—HuGEL. Vereinsb. d. p/dlz. Aerzte, xxiii. p. 170, 1907. — Wbisswange. Zentralh. f. Oyndh., xxxii. p. 296, 1908 ; and Frankenstein. Monatsschr. f. Geburtsh. u. Gynak., xxviii. p. 396, 1908. Atoxyl. Se,e Drugs, Recent (Atoxyl); Sleeping Sickness {Treatment). Atreptic Immunity. See Cancer {Ehrlich's Theory). Audition, Gustatory.—A variety of syngesthesia in which gustatory sensations are felt when certain sounds (words or non-vocal sounds) are heard. AutOSerotiierapy.—The treatment of serous effusions into the pleural and peritoneal cavities by the hypodermic injection into the patient of his own serum ; a plan originated by Gilbert of Geneva in 1891, and practised by Marcou, Audibert, and others. See Austin's article in International Clinics, s. 20, vol. iii. pp. 28-32, 1910. Babinski's Sig^n (No. 2). —As is well known, Babinski's sign is the inversion of the ordinary plantar reflex, i.e. dorsal extension of all the toes, instead of plantar flexion of them, follows stroking of the plantar surface of the foot. Recently the same observer has described another pathological reflex, viz. in- version of the radial reflex. In healthy circum- stances percussion of the lower end of the radius causes simple flexion of the forearm on the upper arm. If the reflexes of the upper limb are strong, as in cerebral hemiplegia, other movements, such as flexion of the fingers, may be associated with the flexion of the fore- arm ; but in health flexion of the fingers alone never follows percussion of the radius. In certain diseases, however, which affect the cervical cord (syringomyelia, tumour) this in- version of the radial reflex occurs; i.e. reflex flexion of the forearm is absent, but reflex flexion of the fingers is increased. This sign is believed to point to a lesion of the fifth cervical segment of the spinal cord. See Gaz.. d. hop., Ann. Ixxxiii. p. 1617, 1910, and Lancet, ii. for 1910, p. 1503. Bacilli - Carriers. See Cerebro- spinal Meningitis and Typhoid Fever {Typhoid Carriers). BacteriOtropin. — A humoral sub- stance found by Neufeld and Rimpan in immune sera ; it is similar in action to Wright's opsonin (being adjuvant to phagocy- tosis), but diflers from it in being thermostable instead of thermolabile. See Andrewes, Lancet, ii. for 1910, p. 1738. Bad-Nauheim Treatment.—The treatment of certain cases of heart disease by muscular exercises (" resistance exercises "), as carried out at Bad-Nauheim, in Hesse-Darm- stadt, Germany. Balne'S Coug^h.—A paroxysmal cough,, occurring at night, and excited generally by lying down; it is met with in naso-pharyngeal obstruction, e.g. from chronic tonsillitis. Balz'S Disease.—Chronic enlargement of the mucous glands of the lips with dilatation of the ducts, most marked on the lower lip. Bans' System.—A method of eradi- cating bovine tuberculosis in Denmark, intro- duced by Professor Bang. It is intended to take the place of eradication by slaughtering the animals, and consists in segregation and isolation. The tuberculin test is applied tO' whole herds, and the reacting are permanently separated from the non-tuberculous animals > but, further, the attempt is made to rear up. a healthy stock from the reacting animals, and this is done by separating all calves born of tuberculous cows immediately after their birth and feeding them with normal milk or with milk heated to such a degree as to kill any tubercle bacilli in it. See Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1909, p. 688. Barber's Rash. — A term somewhat loosely applied to any skin eruption occurring on the chin, and believed to be due to the use of an infected or dirty razor. As commonly employed it includes cases due to the ring- worm fungus (trichophyton) and those due to a pus infection (staphylococci). In the former the morbid process is a hyphogenic sycosis, in the latter a coccogenic one. It need hardly be added that it may be acquired in other ways than from the use of the razor. Baudon'S Wine.—A proprietary tonic wine, said to contain "phosphates with a basis