OPEN-AIR RECOVERY SCHOOL 280 Editorial in Lancet, i. for 1910, pp. 583, 1231, etc. : ii. for 1910, p. 1246. Ophthalmo-fundoscope. — An instrument, invented b}' Dr. Fritz Baum (Rome) for inspecting the fundus oculi under magnification; it can be used in broad day- light. See Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1910, p. 817. Opsonic Index. — .See Immunity (Opsonic Index). Optic Thalamus Syndrome.— The symptomatology of lesions of the thalamic region was described by Dejerine in 1903, and more recently Hartenberg has given a resume' of the condition, of which what follows is a brief epitome. The essential symptoms of the " thalamic syndrome " are :—Hemianaesthesia, pain on the anaesthetic side, slight hemiplegia, hemiataxia, and athetosis. Certain accidental symptoms, of which hemianopsia is the most important, may also occur; these, however, are due to the involvement of structures adjacent to the thalamus, and are not part of the symptom-complex. The thalamic syndrome is produced by a lesion which destroys the postero-external division of the external nucleus, together with part of the middle and internal nuclei and the corresponding fragment of the internal capsule. Hemianopsia is caused when Gratiolet's fibres are also implicated by a lesion of the posterior and inferior part of the thalamus. The onset is usually insidious. The hemiancesthesia involves superficial sensibility, deep sensibility, the muscular sense, and the stereognostic sense. There is much less disturbance of superficial sensibility, whether to touch, pain, or temperature, than of the others. The pain on the anajsthetic side is intense; it is superficial rather than deep, and is continuous, Avith occasional par- oxysmal exacerbations. It is due to irritation of the fibres of the internal capsule. The hemiplegia is very slight; there is neither atrophy nor contraction of the muscles. The reflexes are exaggerated or normal; Babinski's sign is inconstant (absent—Dejerine). Hemia- taxia and athetoid movement usually occur; they do not seriousl}' affect voluntarj^ motion. The thalamic symptom-complex, therefore, is due to a lesion of the sensory path, which at the same time just implicates the pyramidal tract. The diagnosis is not easy, because a very similar train of symptoms may be brought about by a lesion of the same tracts lower doM^n in the brain and pons. When this is the case, however, some of the cranial ner\'es will also be affected—the ocular or facial especially. In the thalamic syndrome these are spared. REFERENCES. — Dejerine and RonssY, Rev. Neurol., 30th June 1906, — Hartenberg, Prcsee mid. (Paris), 15th Jan. 1908.—Roqde, Lyon m4d., 10th May 1908. Orcein Stain.—A staining reagent for elastic tissue; it consists according to Unna and Tanzer of 1 gram of orcein dissolved in a mixture of 80 c.c. of 95 per cent, alcohol, and 35 c.c. of distilled water, 40 drops of strong hydrochloric acid being added after solution is complete; the elastic fibres stain a brownish-violet; and care must be taken after adding a few drops of the stain to warm for five minutes and then decolorise with acid alcohol. See Webster, Diagnostic Methods, p. 13, 1909. OrchiOCOCCUS.—The orchiococcus of Eraud and Hugounenq is an organism found in the vaginal secretion which is apt to be confused with the gonococcus, but it grows easily upon ordinary media, and does not require the special ones which the gonococcus needs. Orphol.—A compound of bismuth contain- ing a phenol derivative (/3-naphthol bismuth), having an antiseptic action in the small intestine as well as possessing the other properties of the bismuth preparations; the dose is from 4 to 8 grains several times daily. See Fortescue- Brickdale, Neiver Remedies, p. 62, 1910. " Orsudan."—An organic compound of arsenium, of which it is said to contain 25*4 per cent. ; chemicalh' it is sodium 3-methyl-4- acetylamino-phenylarsonate ; and it is recom- mended in syphilis, malaria, trypanosomiasis, and other protozoal diseases; it is soluble in water. See also Lmicet, ii. for 1908, p. 802. Orthin. — A modification of phenyl- hydrazine. Orthogrrade Posture.—The erect, M'alking, or standing posture (Gr. hodLg, straight or erect), as constrasted with the pronograde posture. See Scanes-Spicer, Brit. Med. Jonm., ii. for 1910, p. 1912. Orthostatic—-See Orthotic. Orthotic.—Erect (Gr. oodoc, straight), as in orthotic albuminuria, that form of functional albuminuria which disappears when the patient is lying in bed; it is the converse of hypostatic albuminuria. Osteopathy. —A system of medical treatment which consists very largely in the " correction of anatomical abnormalities (sub- luxations of bones, contractured muscles) which produce physiological discord by manipulation. For a guarded and yet appreciatiA C estimate of