CARCINOMA CUTIS 93 shilling-piece a good method is to scrape away the hard raised edge by a sharp spoon and apply to the luw sui'face a chromic acid bead which has been obtained by the crystals of chromic acid on to the end of a probe in the flame of a spirit-lamp. After the scab which forms falls off, the X-rays are applied, and as a rule a rapid cure effected. Radium has also been used successfully in the treatment of rodent ulcers, and will cure some cases which are not benefited l)y X-rays. See Radium. The Finsen-light treatment may also be applied in the treatment of rodent ulcer, but its usefulness cannot compare with X-rays. It will cure small rodents which haA'c not ulcerated, and also the warty growth which so often is the first sign of a commencing rodent. Morris recommends its use in larger rodents to soften the edge and reduce the number of subsequent X-ray exposures. LITERATURE.—Wallace Brown. Med. Rec, 18th May 1907. — Morris and Doee. Light and X-Ray Treatment of Skin Diseases, 1907.—Wetterer. Handbuch der Rontgentherapie, 1908. — Dairer and Others. La revue pratique des maladies cutanees, syph. et vener., March 1906. Ca.rcliolysiS.—Precordial thoracotomy or the operation of resection of the ribs in cases of adhesion of the pericardium (concretio cordis) and great vessels to the sternum, lungs, dia- phragm and structures in the anterior and posterior mediastinum has now been performed a considerable number of times (some twenty cases had been published by the middle of 1910). It was first employed by Brauer in the above circumstances to lessen heart embarrass- ment and relieve respiration, which is seriously interfered with, but it has been advocated in cases of intra-thoracic pressure due simply to the large size of the heart and to the presence of a mediastinal tumour. In the latter indications adhesions may be absent, but Thorburn (Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1910, pp. 12, 1128) is of opinion that the name cardiolysis may also be applied thereto. The technique of the opera- tion is not specially difficult, although the separation of the posterior periosteum from the pleura may give some anxiety, but the ansesthetisation of the patient requires great care, and possibly a mixture of chloroform and ether gives the best results. See also Heart, Surgery of. _ Carnabyn.—A proprietary food prepara- tion; for analysis see Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1909, p. 562. Carnaubic Acid.—One of the higher fatty acids, Co^H^gO^. Carnrick's Liquid Peptonoids. —A proprietary food preparation said to contain " the albuminoid principles of beef, milk, and wheat, entirely digested and ready for assimila- tion." For report see Brif. Med. Journ., ii. for 1909, p. 562. Car-Sickness.—The unpleasant symp- toms (nausea, giddiness, vomiting, etc.) due to riding in vehicles, such as railway carriages, electric or motor cars, and even baby caixiages. It resembles sea-sickness in some particulars, but differs in others {e.g. it affects infants and young children and may occur during sleep), and it has been ascribed to movements of the endo- lymph in the semi-circular canals. Casoid Bread. See Diabetes {Diet). CatapilOresiS.—The introduction of drugs through the unl^roken skin by the agency of a galvanic cui-rent has recently been revived as a method of treatment under the names of cataphoresis, electrolysis, or ionic medication. Only medicaments which act as electrolytes— i.e. break up into ions—can be so introduced, e.g. aqueous solutions of salts, acids, and bases. Chloroform, alcohol, sugars, etc., are not ionis- able, and cannot be used. In a solution of common salt, for example, the particles of sodium chloride are more or less dissociated into sodium ions and chlorine ions. The sodium ions are positively charged with electricity (= kations), while the chlorine ions are nega- tively charged (= anions). It is by the bodily movement of these ions that an electric current passes through an electrolyte; the kations flow towards the kathode, the anions towards the anode. The human body is an electrolyte; if it be connected with the poles of a battery through the agency of an electrolytic solution such as sodium chloride, the sodium ions will move from the anode into the body—towards the kathode, while the chlorine ions will move in the reverse direction. Kations are consti- tuted by metallic radicles — K, Na, Fe, H, alkaloids, etc.; anions are constituted by acid radicles—CI, SO^, OH, etc. The main pharma- cological action of most salts is due to one or other ion—thus in potassium iodide the anion, in strychnine sulphate the kation, is active. It is therefore necessary to select either the anode or the kathode according as it is desired to introduce a kation or an anion. It has been shown by Le Due (who has done much to popularise ionic medication) that if two rabbits be connected by a pad of wet lint, and if elec- trodes moistened with strychnine sulphate be applied to each, the rabbit connected with the anode is poisoned (kation) while the other escapes. Conversely, if potassium cyanide replace strychnine, the animal at the kathode is killed by the poisonous anion. The method of employing cataphoresis is as follows :—The active electrode is covered with ten or twelve thicknesses of lint soaked in the electrolyte, and is kept firmly applied to the