137 ECTOPIC PREGNA.NCY in Atlas's : the diagnosis of a tubal abortion was made, there having been amenorrhoea for two months, followed by abdominal pain, uterine haemorrhage, and the development of a rounded tumour in the pouch of Douglas on the right side. The patient passed into a state of collapse, and the abdomen was opened; one and a half litres of blood were removed, and the healthy Fallopian tube of the right side along with the cystic ovary was taken away ; a haematoma was discovered in the lower part of the omentum, which was ligatured and removed ; when it was examined it was found to consist of an ovum surrounded by old and recent blood clot, and having the omentum rolled round it; there were chorionic villi, but they nowhere came into direct contact with omental tissue, being separated by the clot. The omentum had not contracted any adhesions with the tube, and, as has been stated, the ovary was cystic. Witthauer's opinion was that an ovum from the left ovary had become impregnated and had wandered across to the right side and been caught in a fold of the omentum ; but he says nothing about the state of the left tube, and does not, therefore, exclude the possibility of a tubal abortion on that side of the body In Galabin's case, also, the possi- bility of re-implantation after a hypothetical tubal abortion could not be excluded (Brit. Med. Joiirn., i. for 1903, p. 664). Linck {Monatssch. f. Geburtsh. u. Gyndk., xx. p. 1257, 1904) regarded his specimen as one of primary ab- dominal pregnancy, and Mayer's case {Inter- colo)i. Med. Jourii. Australas., x. p. 145, 1905) had strong claims for inclusion in the list of very probable instances. In the latter, Mayer found in the abdomen a deformed fcetus. seven inches in length, attached by the cranium to the omentum, but with no other adhesions; the Fallopian tubes were normal, and the ovaries were cystic; the placenta was attached to the upper part of the uterus and of the broad ligaments, and was also fixed to the omentum. Valdagni's case {Ginecoloyia (Florence), ii. p. 164, 1905) was an interesting one: after four months, during which her menstruation was scanty, the patient had a sudden attack of pelvic pain, followed in a few days by a flow of milk from the breasts. A year later a movable ovoid tumour was detected in the right iliac region ; the performance of laparotomy revealed that the uterus, ovaries, and tubes were normal, and that the tumour, which was densely adherent to the bowel and omentum, contained a macer- ated foetus. Luigi Guidi's case {Clin, ostet. (Roma), viii. p. 147, 1906), another Italian observation, was somewhat similar; but the right tube was adherent to the omentum, in which the gestation sac, the size of a walnut and corresponding to four weeks in develop- ment, was folded up. Lovrich's observa- tion {Gymekoloyia (Budapest), p. 70, 1907; Monatssch. f. Geburtsh. u. Gyndk., xxvii, p. 704, 1908) was peculiar in the fact that the pregnancy went to the full time, when a spurious labour occurred, followed by the flow of milk from the breasts; six months later abdominal section was performed, and a gesta- tion sac, coiaiected with the left broad ligament by a broad pedicle and containing a mummified foetus, was removed; both tubes and ovaries were free from any connection with the sac, and the placenta was attached to the left mesosalpinx and extended upwards to the level of the umbilicus. The wall of the sac contained chorionic villi and a glandular tubal structure, whose presence Lovrich was puzzled to explain ; he thought it might be a parovarian tubule, or, more probably, an accessory Fallopian tube upon which the ovum had fallen and in whose substance it may have developed. In a case operated on by von Ott and reported by Jarzeff {Monatssch. f. Geburtsh. u. Gyndk., xxviii. p. 144, 1908), dermoid cysts of both ovaries were re- moved by A^aginal section, and with them came away a number of clots and a small fcetus which had been lying in the pouch of Douglas ; the left Fallopian tube contained no products of gestation, and the right one appeared healthy and was not removed. Of course the ana- tomical diagnosis of this case could not ))e fully established, for the vaginal and not the ab- dominal operation had been performed. To complete this survey of alleged cases of primary abdominal gestations reference must be made to Otto Grone's observation {Zentralb. f. Gyndk., xxxiii. p. 45, 1909). It was made in the Malmci Hospital; the case was diagnosed as one of tubal gestation, and the abdomen was opened by Prag. Free blood was found in the pelvis, but neither the tvibes nor ovaries showed any indications of pregnancy or of rupture. A bleeding surface the size of a mark piece was noted on the peritoneum anteriorly between the right round ligament and the caecum ; this was excised and the peritoneal edges brought together with sutures. This area represented, according to Griine, the site of implantation of the ovum, and the microscopic appearances supported this view. Two bodies, one as large as a walnut, were found lying in the pouch of Douglas ; one of them was solid and the other porous, and they both showed the cellular con- stituents of the villi (syncytium and Langhans's cells). No trace of an embryo was discovered. If, now, we sum up the evidence in favour of primary abdominal pregnancy, it is obvious that it cannot be regarded as a clearly demonstrated possibility of ectopic gestation. It seems to be almost impossible to exclude the occurrence of tubal or ovarian rupture or of tubal abortion at a very early stage, with secondary implanta- tion of the ovum, on the peritoneum and the restitutio ad inteijrum of the original site of grafting. The evidence from the occurrence