181 HEART, SURGERY OF cases purulent pericarditis is not primary, but secondary to some other forms of suppura- tion, and occurs merely as a manifestation of a generalised septicEemic or pysemic infection. The fact that recovery has occasionally followed operation in the primary cases certainly warrants operation whenever the condition is diagnosed, unless the patient is actually moribund. When the clinical signs suggest pyopericardium an exploratory puncture should be made. The risk of wounding the heart is slight. Probably the safest site is close to the ensiform cartilage opposite the 7th costal cartilage, as this is below the reflection of the left pleural sac, which lies under cover of the sternum at the 5th, and usually at the 6th costal cartilage. Some, however, advise puncture just within the outer- most limit of praicordial dulness, on the ground that the effusion displaces lungs and pleura, and that here there is less chance of wounding the heart. Sometimes pus though present cannot be withdrawn by the needle, and it may at times be justifiable to operate without the confirmation of exploratory puncture. Operation proper consists merely in incision and drainage, and various routes have been suggested with the object of minimising the risk of wounding the left pleura. Thus, for instance, trephining the lower end of the sternum has been advised ; others again raise a flap containing the 4th, 5th, and 6th costal cartilages, which allows space for the ligature of the internal mammary artery, and the reflec- tion of the angle of the pleura. Allingham suggests the epigastric route, an incision being made to the left of the median line just below the costal insertion of the rectus, and working up through the costo-xiphoid space in the diaphragm, the peritoneum being pushed down. According to Elliot, the simplest method is to remove the inner part of either the 5th or 6th costal cartilage through an oblique incision parallel to its long axis. The opening is deepened into the anterior mediastinum by the division of the perichondrium and the underlying plane of the triangularis sterni. The contiguous pleural reflection is then if possible pushed outward ; if the pleural cavity has been obliterated, the underlying pericardium may be opened without danger of pleural pene- tration. The pericardium is best divided by scissors between two pairs of forceps, and the opening enlarged by the finger. Pus is allowed to escape slowly. Irrigation with weak saline is advisable. The edges of the pericardium should be sewn to the skin if possible; a rubber drain, or a strand of gauze should be inserted. If recovery takes place it is usually complete, the patient showing no signs of cardiac irregulaiity. Wounds of the Heart.—Suture of wounds of the heart has become established as the best means of treating this grave injury. Papers on the subject, with collected lists of published cases of suture, have been written by Lenormant [Gaz. des Hopitaux, Paris, 13th Sept. 1906); Vaughan {Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc., 6th Feb. 1909); Hill {Med. Record, New York, 19th Sept. 1908), and others. Vaughan states that the kind of operation is often determined by the external wound, and, begun as an explora- tion, its subsequent steps are guided by the necessities which arise during its progress. This probably accounts for the large number of resections of cartilages or parts of ribs rather than the formation of a well-planned flap of skin, muscle, and ribs. The best method is one that will (a) freely expose the heart, (6) not open the pleura, (c) leave the chest wall unimpaired. The chief methods are :— 1. Operation through att interspace. This is suitable for a long chest with wide spaces. Space may be gained by the resection of one or two ribs or cartilages. 2. Resection of one or more cartilages with or without a portion of rib. 3. Flap methods—{a) Make a transverse incision from the right side of the sternum in the third space across the sternum to the line of the left costo-chondral junction, and a corresponding incision in the fifth space ; unite the left ends by a vertical incision. Divide the sternum and cartilages along these incisions after tying the internal mammary artery. Turn the flap to the right, making a hinge of the right chondro-sternal joints. (6) Another flap method is to divide the 4th and 5th cartil- ages near the left sternal border and to divide the 3rd and 5th interspaces laterally nearly to the nipple line. The flap is raised by its inner border, the pleura stripped oflP if practic- able, and the ribs broken or cut near the costo- chondral junction, (c) A flap can be made in the reverse manner, with an internal hinge. The pleura is probably always opened when this is done, as indeed is also the case in the preceding operation. In 133 operations, 60 involved resection of one or more ribs or cartilages ; 71 a flap ; 2. incision of an inter- space. The size of the wound found varied from one-fifth to two and a quarter inches ; silk is most frequently used as a suture, next comes catgut. The suture may be continuous or interrupted, and it does not seem to matter whether or not the stitches enter the cavity of the heart. Tumultuous action of the heart has sometimes interfered with the introduction of the stitches; it can be overcome by holding the heart in the hand, or introducing one or two deep tension sutures to steady the organ. In severe cases massage of the heart {vide infra) has been used, occasionally with success, to revive a pulseless organ. On the whole, judging by the results after drainage and non-drainage, it is better to avoid drainage, unless infection is probable, or hsemostasis has been unsatis- factory. Among the disadvantages of drainage