SPINAL CORD, SURGERY OF 345 to what one might d, priori expect, the symptoms (and the lesion) generally display a certain amount of unilaterality. Hence, find- ing that a case of paraplegia has had a unilateral origin should not prejudice the diagnosis in favour of tumour. Pain gener- ally begins first in one limb, spreads to the other, and then up the back. There may be girdle pain. Ansesthesia is never complete, nor is there dissociation of sensation, because, the lesion aft'ecting the roots, all form of impulses are caught together. Hyperaesthesia, extending over a large area—the whole of a limb—is common. The sensory disturbances, as a whole, are suggestive of the implication of a larger number of roots than in cases of tumour. Paralysis comes on gradually, and aff'ects a whole limb at once; there is no restricted root paralysis. There may be early spasticity. In contradistinction to tumour cases, these patients show few trophic disturbances, except perhaps terminal bed-sores. In the large majority of Horsley's cases the meningitis began over the lower half of the back of the cord, and most were operated on (in consequence of the need of exposing the highest segment of the cord symptomatically involved) in the mid-dorsal (4th to 9th) region. With one exception all the patients were adults. The prognosis depends largely upon the age; below or at middle life recuperation is likely to be good; above that poor. Horsley's oldest patient was sixty; she did not improve after operation. Pathology.—There is in these cases excess of cerebro-spinal fluid, thickening of the arachnoid, and matting of the nerve roots. The cerebro- spinal fluid, it will be remembered, is manufac- tured high up—by the lining membrane of the cerebral ventricles and choroid-plexus— under positive pressure, and escapes by the lymphatics along the nerve roots. In these cases the large collection of cerebro-spinal fluid around the spinal cord is under considerable pressure. At operation the theca bulges, and does not exhibit respiratory movements. The improvement which follows free opening of the theca and washing outs suggests that the pressure /jer se plays an important part in damaging the cord and producing symptoms. In an average (not early) case the cord appears shrunken, but the pathological changes are unknown, except in the two instances referred to, in which there was a general sclerogliosis of all the columns. Some cases certainly are, and a considerable number probably are not, syphilitic. The only case in a young subject (aged twelve) was probably due to hereditary syphilis. There is some evidence that gonorrhoea may play a part in the etiology. Treatment.—The treatment adopted by Horsley was simple laminectomy, opening the theca and washing out the theca with a mercurial lotion. If there is much exudation, a solution of sublimate, 1-500, followed by 1-2000, may be used. The skin wound should be closed, not drained. The theca should not be sutured. If it is left open patients have less discomfort, pyrexia, and tachycardia after the operation ; and possibly an artificial fistulous opening remains between the spinal canal and the lymphatics in and around the muscles. After the skin wound is healed free mercurial inunction of the spine is indicated. The literature of circumscribed serous men- ingitis is referred to by Spiller {op. cit.) ; his paper is a short resume, chiefly from the pathological point of view. A critical digest \>y Adler will be found in the University of Pennsylvania Medical Bulletin, March and April 1903, and a paper by Mendel and Adler with literature in the Berlin klin. Woch., 31st August 1908. Spinal Rigidity.--^ee Spondylose Rhizomelique. Spinal Tapping.—&e Embryotomy (Hydrocephalus). Spine, Typhoid.—/See Typhoid Fever {Symptomatology). Spirosal. — The monoglycolic ester of salic3'lic acid, used as an external application in acute and chronic rheumatism, sciatica, lum- bago, etc.; it is colourless and odourless, and readily soluble in alcohol, ether, or chloroform, and so it majr be applied dissolved in rectified spirit; it is said to be non-irritating. See Lancet, ii. for 1910, p. 35. SplenOCytes.—The large mononuclear leucocytes of the blood; they are supposed to be derived from the spleen. Spondylitis Typhosa. — Typhoid spine. See Typhoid Fever {Sym'ptomatology). Spondylose Rhizomelique (Spinal Rigidity). — The name spondylose rhizomelique was applied by Marie to a par- ticular group of cases of spinal rigidity to demarcate them from other cases in which the same symptom is a leading feature. The general symptoms of this, and other forms of spondylitis, are, rigidity of the spinal column, either throughout its whole length, or in part, and in some cases ankylosis of the larger joints of the extremities. The rigidity of the spine may be so great as to abolish entirely all move- ment—lateral, antero-posterior, or rotary ; there is generally, but not always, well - marked kyphosis of the cervico-dorsal region. In the type described by Marie as rhizomelic spondy- losis there is ankylosis of the spine and of the hip and shoulder joints, and sometimes of the