POLYOYTHiEMIA VERA 298 is increase in the leucoblastic, as well as the erythroblastic tissue of the marrow. In Blumenthal's case, referred to above as excep- tional, the marrow is described as bearing a supei'ficial I'esemlilance to fcetal marrow, but the principal change was a leucoblastic degenera- tion. The marrow lesion being the only con- stant change, we are able to put on one side Vaquez's Aaew that the disease was due to tuberculosis of the spleen, and to rule out chronic visceral lesions as causes of stasis, at least in the majority of cases, though it is admitted that occasionally portal obstruction gives rise to a very similar symptom-complex, in which splenomegaly and polycythgemia are the prominent features. It is less easy to eliminate the possibility of a chronic toxaemia, ljut there is at least no evidence of any single special source of toxic mischief in these cases. But it must be remembered that in addition to the marrow lesion the patients all exhibit very marked signs of stasis and impeded circulation, and the question arises, Is this the cause, or is it an effect, of the erythrge,mia 1 Saundby believes that the stasis, impaired peripheral circulation, and generalised "as- phyxia " of the skin are sufficient to cause a compensatory reaction of the marrow. The condition is "a cerebro-spinal neurasthenia, causing vasomotor spasm, with engorgement of the capillary and venous circulation and congestion of the internal organs, especially of the liver and spleen, with muscular weak- ness, loss of knee-jerks, and mental impairment, shown by loss of memory, apathy, and drowsi- ness." Mackey regards the splenic enlargement as in some cases primary, and suggests that, " owing to the stasis and imper fect oxygenation of an enormous quantity of blood in the enlarged spleen, the same compensatory forces are set in motion as in the case of congenital and other forms of heart disease, and probably by stimu- lating the bone marrow produce the polycy- thsemia." According to the view of Webei' (which is also that generally held) the erythrsemia is the cause of stasis. The increased blood viscosity necessarily accompanying polj'cy- thaemia must, however, favour the development of a secondary condition of l)lood stasis, whether there be a compensatory increase in blood pressure (as thei'e usually is in erythrsemia) or not. Delayed circulation in its turn favours the occurrence of thrombosis in the various viscera, and the occurrence of throml)osis further hampers the circulation. Again, delayed circu- lation, and congestion, in the blood-vessels of the lungs and branches promote the dcA'clop- ment of chronic catai'i'hal changes, which induce cyanosis and thr-ow extra work on the right side of the heart. So that in erythi'semia an elaboi'ate vicious circle is established ; the polycyth.Tuiia in various wavs tends to impede the circulation, and the blood stasis thus pro- duced favours cyanosis and increases the circulatory difficulty by giving rise to a further (compensatory secondary) polycythaemia in addition to the primary (myelopathic) polycy- thaemia. Thus the connection and sequence of the main symptoms is :—(1) Increased marrow erythropoiesis; (2) excessive viscosity of the blood ; (3) dilatation of the small vessels to lessen resistance to abnormally viscous blood ; (4) plethora compensatory for increased viscosity; (5) arterial hypertonus from the strain on the circulation ; (6) cyanosis due to inadequacy of compensatory changes which precede. There is no evidence that polycythasmia can be caused by increased resistance and longer life of the red corpuscles. Another theory, held by Lommell, is that the polycythsemia is compensatory to low oxygen capacity of the hsemoglobin. Lommell estimated the power of the haemoglobin to fix oxygen, and found that the oxygen quotient was -903, as compared with 1'24: in a normal control. Herringham suggests that there may be some fault in the cytoplasm, or in the haemo- globin of the red cells, which prevents them from being good oxygen carriers, or that there is some abnormal reducing agent in the blood which reduces oxyhsmoglobin but does not turn it into methaemoglobin or sulphohaemo- globin. The want of oxygen might stimulate the bone marrow to form fresh cells, as it does where high altitudes or heart disease is the cause. On the whole, taking the four principal hypotheses as, (1) primary overproduction of red corpuscles ; (2) stasis ; (3) increased longevity of red corpuscles; and (4) deficient oxygen- carrying power, the balance of evidence seems to incline towards the first being the true explanation of the disease. In erythrocytosis, from whatever cause, the blood is always abnormally viscous ; it flows through the capillaries with difficulty, and thus cyanosis readily occurs. The total volume of the blood in erythriiemia, estimated by Haldane and Lorrain Smith's carbon-monoxide method, is above normal (Welder, Haldane, Boycott). This fact is associated with the distension of the abdominal veins which is so marked a feature at post-mortem examination. In some cases the arterial blood-pressure is high (erythremia hypertonica), with cardiac hyper- trophy ; in others it is low. Enlargement of the spleen is occasionally absent. Diagnosis.—From what has been said it will be seen that although in its main outlines the symptom - group is sufficiently well defined,, difficulties in diagno.sis will often arise. (1) In the first place the possibility of portal obstruc- tion or organic intra-thor-acic disease — e.g. adher-ent pericardium, fibroid phthisis, or