131 ECTOPIC PREGNANCY although what may be called decidua-like cells may appear. It is, however, a difficult matter to separate true decidual cells from the cells of Langhans's layer. The following characters will be helpful:—Langhans's cells are generally polyhedral, and are closely packed together ; decidual cells are more rounded or oval, and generally show intercellular tissue ; the former contain a clearer (less easily stained) proto- plasm, with a fine network in it, while the protoplasm in the latter stains better, is gran- ular, and shows no network or onl}'' a very fine one; the cell outlines in the former are clear, in the latter less distinct; and, finally, the nuclei of Langhans's cells are larger than those of decidual cells, they have a bladder-like appearance which those of decidual cells do not have till later, and they have a marked chrom- atin network and nucleolus. It is of great importance to keep these differences in mind when examining the histology of tubes which are the site of ectopic pregnancy, for it is quite evident that in the past Langhans's cells have been mistaken for decidual ones, in other words, foetal trophoblast cells have been confused with maternal decidual ones. Another matter of some interest has emerged—the fact that early intra-uterine pregnancies have shown that decidual formation follows and does not precede the implantation of the ovum on the mucous membrane : from this, it must be concluded that it is not essential for an ovum to be embedded on pre-existing decidual tissue. With these facts in mind we are better able to consider the question of decidual reaction and formation in connection with tubal pi'eg- nancy. Here, as in normal pregnancy, the formation of decidual cells has been looked for in the uterine mucous membrane, in the tubes, in the ovaries, and in the neighbouring peri- toneum. As it is of most importance, the change in the tubes may be considered first. It would appear that, while individual observers differ as to its amount, all are agreed that there is some evidence of decidual reaction in the mucous membrane of the tube which contains the fertilised ovum. Occasionally traces of the same have been noted in the mucosa of the empty tube. As a rule the decidual reaction is slight, being, however, more marked in the folds than in the spaces between the folds. The small degree of change is probably due to the absence of anything resembling the thick mucous membrane of the body of the uterus; indeed, the tubal mucosa is hardly fitted ana- tomically for the growing of a decidua, at any rate it does not furnish the elements for the compact layer of the same. Conflicting state- ments have been made regarding decidual changes in the submucous and intermuscular tissues of the tube which enter into the forma- tion of the gestation sac ; it is in this relation that great care has to be taken to distinguish between true decidual (maternal) cells and the decidua-like (foetal) cells of Langhans's layer of the trophoblast; and there can be no doubt that in some cases Langhans's cells have been regarded as decidual, and this remark applies specially to the tissue which has been described as tubal decidua serotina or basalis. Recent observations seem to show, however, that de- cidual changes take place in the walls of the blood-vessels of the pregnant tube, occasionally in the endothelium, but more constantly in the tunica intima. The decidual cells formed in the vessels require to be carefully distinguished from Langhans's cells, as can usually be done by keeping the characteristic features (enu- merated above) in mind. The appearance which has been described as deportation of Langhans's cells in veins is possiblj^ to be regarded rather as formation of decidual cells in the walls of the vessels. Decidual reaction in the case of the general peritoneum or of that covering the tube has been very rarely observed, but then it has not often been looked for. In Penkert's case {Zeitsch. f. GeMirtsh. n. Gyndk., liv. p. 88, 1905), a tul)o-abdominal one, chorionic villi were found attached to the omentum, and in the latter there were clumps of typical decidual cells; and similar cells were found in the peritoneum of the appendix vermifoi'mis in a case in which that structure was adherent to the pregnant Fallopian tube of the right side, the reporter (Hirschberg, Arch. f. Gynaelc, Ixxiv. p. 620, 1904-5) naming the condition "periappendicitis decidualis." These reports, demonstrating the possibility of decidual re- action occurring in the peritoneum, make the case for primary abdominal pregnancy much stronger. Scarcely any observers have noticed decidual cells in the ovary in tubal pregnancy. To complete this survey of decidual reaction in tubal gestation, it must be added that the uterine mucous membrane almost always shows very distinct changes of the nature of the formation of a decidua, although considerable differences exist with regard to its extent, and to the time of its being shed. The second question has reference to the relationship of the gestation sac to the wall of the tube ; in this direction distinct progress has to be reported. It is necessary to abandon the view that the fertilised ovum is simply attached to the tubal mucosa, with a part projecting freely into the lumen of the tube. In at any rate the vast majority of cases the ovum is embedded in the tube wall ; it is, in fact, sul:)mucous in position ; it may appear to be in the lumen of the tube, but serial sections show that it is really under the mucous mem- brane, and that it is, indeed, generallv intra- muscular. What has been called the decidua reflexa in tubal pregnancy probabh' is simply the tubal tissues and the trophoblast of the ovum ; it ought to be regularly called the