HEART, DISEASES OF 174 received renewed support, and at present the question as to which is correct remains an open one. The subject is a complicated one, and would require a lengthy discussion to do it justice. For admirable summaries of the argu- ments for and against, the oration to the Medical Society of London by G. A. Gibson, who inclines to the neurogenic hypothesis {Edin. Med. Jotirn., July 1907), and an article by Gossage on the " Automatic Rhythm of the Heart" {Brit. Med. Journ., vol. ii. p. 1818, 1907) should be referred to. Much of our present knowledge of the action of the heart is based on Gaskell's work, which demonstrates that heart muscle possesses the five-fold function of (1) generatuig stimuli to contraction : (2) receiving such stimuli — excitahility; (3) conveying such stimuli from one fibre to another—conductivity; (4) con- tracting—co7itractility; and (5) maintaining a certain degree of tonic contraction, even where active movement has ceased—tonicity. Couductiviti/.—The nature of the conducting system of fibres has been elucidated l)y the labours of Stanley Kent and His (jr.), Gaskell, Keith and Flack, Tawara, Erlanger, and others. The conducting fibres consist of the remains of the primitive cardiac tube, and have the power both of originating and conducting impulses to contraction. The auriculo-ventricular bundle •—the bridge which conveys impulses from the auricles to the ventricles—was described in 1893 by His and Kent, and its structure and ramifications were carefully worked out by Tawara, whose observations were pulilished in 1906. Keith and Flack discovered a i-emnant of the sinus venosus (the "sino-auricular node") near the mouth of the superior vena cava, and this probably is the point from which the auricular contractions originate. In structure it resembles the auriculo-ventricular bundle; it contains nerve fibrils. Lower down the auriculo-ventricular bundle begins in the auricle in front of the coronary vein and passes forwards on the right side of the interauricular septum to a nodal point ("the node") above the attachment of the mesial flap of the tricuspid valve. From this nodal point the fibres run down in two main bundles, one to each ventricle, which subdivide to form a sub- endothelial network and trabeculse, and end in the papillary muscles. They are insulated from the rest of the heart by a connective tissue layer. The left main trunk can often be seen in the hearts of elderl}^ persons as a whitish band, measuring about a quarter of an inch in breadth, below the pars membranacese septi. The fibres of the Inindle and its branches differ histologically from the rest of the heart muscle in showing a less development of sarcoplasm and a more reticular arrangement (Pinkinje's fibres). They ultimately lose their connective tissue sheath, and become directly continuous with the heart muscle. The auriculo-ventricular bundle is accompanied by nerve-fibrils and a special branch of the coronary aitery. The wave of contraction noi'mally passes from the auricles to the ventricles by way of the auriculo-ventricular bundle. It has been ascertained by experiment upon animals that the time required for the transmission of an impulse from auricles to ventricles along the «-r bundle is one-fifth of a second. The impulse can be checked more or less completely bj' com- pressing the bundle more or less forcibly. When this is done, an interesting series of phenomena follows. Slight pressui'e causes a progressive lengthening of the intervals between the contractions of the auricles and those of the ventricles (the auriculo-ventricular period), until eventually the ventricles fail to respond to one of the exciting waves. In the next cardiac cycle, owing to the fact that the longer period of rest has increased the excitability of the ventricles, the auriculo-ventricular period is unusually brief, lengthening out again as before in the succeeding cardiac cycles. As the com- pression of the rt-?' bundle is increased, the omission of ventricular beats occurs more frequently ; thus at first there may he failure on the part of the ventricle to respond to every eighth auricular systole (8 : 1 rhythm), while with further compression we get a series of 7 : 1, 6 : 1, . . . . 2:1 rhythms, in the last of which only every alternate auricular contraction is followed by a ventricular contraction. On still further compressing the bundle, only every third or fourth auricular wave stimulates the ventricles to contract—in other words, rhythms of 1 in 3, 1 in 4, ... . develop. These stages of partial block are explained by the progress- ively increasing irritability of the resting ventricular muscle, eventually reaching such a pitch that a mere fraction of the normal stimulus is adequate to provoke a contraction. When a l-in-3 rhythm is reached, however, complete heart-block is usually established, the ventricles asserting their independent rhythm, and becoming completely dissociated from the auricles. When this condition of heart-l:)lock exists, stimulation of the accelerator nerve of the heart increases the rate of both chambers; stimulation of the vagus or its paralysis by atropine, on the other hand, only afieets the auricles. When, instead of compressing the a-v bundle gradually, it is suddenly and forcibly clamped so as to produce heart-block, the typical sequence of events is somewhat different. The ventricles stop, the auricles continue their beat undis- turbed, and distend the relaxed ventricles with blood. After a pause lasting up to eighty seconds or more, the ventricles begin to conti-act again, and take up their own independent rhythm. The pause following sudden tighten- ing up of the clamp may be so long as to induce