305 PREGNANCY, PATHOLOGY OF them, operators have become bolder in their surgical interference during pregnancy. It is no uncommon procedure nowadaj's to remove ovarian tumours (cystic, solid, or dermoid) which may be found complicating pregnancj'^, and many articles dealing with this subject have appeared. Dlihrssen {Deutsche med. Wochensch., xxx. pp. 1529, 1570, 1904) is of opinion that such growths should be removed in pregnancy (or in labour) by vaginal ovario- tomy ; but if the tumour have developed adhesions, this operation may become suddenly difficult and not free from danger from hsemoi- rhage. C. Greene Cumston (Journ. Obstet. and Gynnc. Brit. Evvp., xiv p. 159, 1908), although operating in four out of his five cases by the abdominal route, is inclined to recom- mend vaginal ovariotomy in some instances; he points out that the sudden cooling of the peritoneal cavity (in abdominal ovariotomy) may, by relaxing the muscular structure of the uterus, lead to expulsion of the foetus. Opera- tion early in pregnancy would seem to be safer than in the later months ; and A. Martin {Nor- mandie med., xxii. p. 22, 1907) found in a young primipara at the seventh month of gesta- tion that a dermoid cyst of the right ovary had ruptured and suppurated, necessitatingCajsarean section, ovariotomy, and, ultimately, total ab- dominal hysterectomy; ovariotomy early in pregnancy would probably have prevented this dangerous sequence of grave operative pro- cedures. But even when the cyst ruptures in pregnancy surgical interference may be successful, thus H. Morestin {Ann. de gynec. et d'obstet, 2 s. iv. p. 602, 1907) operated (by laparotomy) on a patient at the fourth month of pregnancy and found that there was a rup- tured multilocular cyst of the right ovary; labour set in on the second day and the placenta had to be removed, and yet the woman ulti- mately recovered. It is on account of such experiences that Lobenstine {Bull. Lying-in Hasp. (New York), iii. p. 88, 1906-7) advises operation during pregnancy as soon as the diagnosis is established; and the same advice is given by many others (M'Kerron, 1903; Munro Kerr, 1908). But even tumours of the uterus itself have been successfully operated on during pregnancy, e.g. Doran's case of sessile subserous fibro- myoma removed by myomectomy at the third month {Journ. Obstet. and Gynwc. Bi'it. Emp., viii. p. 297, 1905), Potocki's case of amputation of the hypertrophied cervix in the fourth month {Compt. rend. Sac. d'obstet., de gynec., et de pcediat. de Pai-is, v\\. p. 186, 1906), and Hewetson's double myomectomy at the tenth week of gestation {Birmwigham Aled. Rev., xii. p. 55, 1908). Amputation of the cancerous cervix during pregnancy has also been per- formed, but in 58 per cent, of the reported cases abortion followed (Oui, Echo med. du JVord, xi. p. 229, 1907). There can be no doubt that in some instances fibroid tumours form a very grave complication of pregnancy, and this is especially true of the cases in which torsion of the fibroid or of the whole uterus occurs (Lepage and Mouchotte, Amt. de gynec. et d'obstet., 2 s. iii. p. 99, 1906; Iv&noff, Ann. de gynec. et d'obstet., 2 s. iv. p. 311, 1907). Glockner {Zentralb. f. Gyndk., xxxi. p. 156, 1907) has suggested that a myomectomy scar will be a probable cause of uterine rupture in subsequent pregnancies, but Littauer and Abel did not see reason to join in these fears. Digestive Disorders during Pregnancy. —Quite a considerable literature has grown up round the subject of appendicitis as a com- plication of pregnancy. Schoemaker [Zentralb. f. Gyndk., xxix. p. 596, 1905), in a series of 150 cases of appendicitis (of which 80 were women), noted pregnancy in two, and in one of these death resulted, whilst, in the other-, a gangrenous appendix was removed, followed by a slow convalescence. Renvall {Finska Idk.- sdllsk. handl., Helsingfors, I. i. 1908) has pub- lished a valuable summary of over 250 cases of appendicitis occurring either alone or along with pei'itonitis as a complication of pregnancy and labour; in 163 of these instances an operation took place ; he was of opinion that the uterus should generally be emptied before the abdominal section is carried out, especially when the fcetus was alive and the pregnancy far advanced. Rostowzew {Zentralb./. Gyndk., xxvii. p. 1485, 1903), however, and many others, have been opposed to the preliminary induction of abortion; and Monod {Compt. rend. Sac. d'obstet., de gynec, et de pcediat. de Paris, V. p. 70, 1903), for instance, had to free many adhesions and extricate the appendix from behind the caecum before he could remove it, and yet pregnancy went on to term. Mauclaire, Segond, and others {Ann. de gynec. et d'obstet., ii. p. 243, 1905) have summed up strongly in favour of immediate operation in cases of appendicitis in pregnancy, and the first-named operator made, on one occasion, as many as four incisions to let out pus, re- moved a gangrenous appendix, and yet preg- nancy was not interrupted. Further, there is evidence that appendicitis, if not operated on during pregnancy, is apt to be aggravated by the traumatism of labour and to become very dangerous in the puerperium (Michel, Rev. med. de Vest, xxxviii. p. 257, 1906). Hyperemesis gravidarum continues to be one of the most dreaded complications of the preg- nant state. Its causation is still a mystery. Whitridge Williams {Johns Hopkins Hosp. Bull., xvii. p. 71, 1906 ; Trans. Amer. Gynec. Soc, xxx. p. 229, 1905 ; Amer. Journ. Med. Sci., n. s. cxxxii. p. 343, 1906) recognises three causal varieties—the reflex, the neurotic, and the toxsemic—of which the last-named is the 20