23 ACIDOSIS acetonuria. Marked irritability of temper sometimes characterises the onset of a vomiting bout, or an attack of pyrexia. The parents of such children are often "gouty," and the patients themselves often suffer from gravel. Cyclic vomiting may easily give rise to errors in diagnosis. It has often been mistaken for obstruction, and even operated on in that belief. The history, the odour of acetone, and the hoUowed-out abdomen should prevent this error. The persistent vomiting and the retracted abdomen may also lead to a diagnosis of meningitis; here the history, the acetonuria, the absence of irregularity of the pulse, should lead us aright. Cyclic vomiting is seldom fatal, hence there are few pathological records. It is, however, a curious fact that a relatively large number of deaths have occurred during a first attack of vomiting. However desperately ill the patient may appear, there is always room to hope that the vomiting will suddenly cease. Langmead describes the pathological appearances in four cases. The principal lesion found was well- marked fatty infiltration of the liver, and cloudy swelling, with some fatty change, in the kidneys. 5. Delayed Chloivfarm Poisoning.—Although this is described elsewhere (p. 28), it must be shortly referred to here. It is more commonly seen in children than in adults, and is especially liable to occur after lapai'otomy for any acute abdominal infection. The symptoms closely resemble those described above as characteristic of acidosis, and the post-mortem appearances, according to G-uthrie and Langmead, are identi- cal with what are found in cyclic vomiting. 6. Acidosis in Infancy.—In many infants suffering from gastro-intestinal disorder, the urine contains a relatively large amount of ammonia nitrogen. Keller associates this fact with an excess of fat in the diet. As we have seen, increase in the output of ammonia nitro- gen is a measure of acidosis. The excess of fat may lead to an increased absorption of fatty acids from the intestine—"absolute acidosis," or it may operate in another direction. Accord- ing to Keller, the fatty acids in the intestine are neutralised by the fixed bases of the tissues, which are found in the stools. The body is therefore despoiled of its alkali, and " relative acidosis " results. It must not be supposed that the theory of acid intoxication is free from difficulties. Guthrie sums up the alternative hypotheses as follows:— "1. That so-called fatty acid intoxication is due to deficiency of bases in the body to neutralise the acids formed, rather than to excess of the acids themselves. "2. That diabetic coma, and therefore other cases attributed to fatty acid intoxication, are really instances of COg poisoning. " 3. That the toxic symptoms following anesthetics are due to the anaesthetic remain- ing in combination with certain tissues of the body, or, in the case of chloroform, to its administration in too concentrated a form. " 4. That idiosyncrasy explains post-anses- thetic poisoning. " 5. That the symptoms are merely those of carbohydrate starvation (Beddard). " 6. That they are due to disturbance, not merely of fat metabolism, but also of the proteolytic, antitoxic, and glycogenic function of the liver (Hunter)." At the present time, however, the acid intoxication theory, as outlined above, is both the best explanation of the phenomena and the best working hypothesis. Thekapeutic Considerations.—The chief indications would seem to be to administer alkalies and carbohydrates. Alkalies have been extensively employed—on the whole with good results In diabetic coma the manner in which intravenous injections of sodium bicar- bonate sometimes restore consciousness is as striking a proof as could be desired of the essential nature of the condition ; the improve- ment, unfortunately, is always merely tempor- ary. In all cases of acid intoxication the attempt should be made to introduce large quantities of alkalies into the system—by the mouth, the bowel, or subcutaneously. When the stomach will retain it, sodium bicarbonate should be given in doses of 30 grs. or more at frequent intervals. For subcutaneous or (preferably) intravenous injection a 3-5 per cent, solution of the salt is used ; when the drug is given by the rectum, from 120 to 480 grs. may be given in the day. If there is reason to suppose that chronic acidosis short of intoxication exists, alkalies should also be given regularly. Their effect in pi'omoting elimination of the acetone bodies has already been mentioned. Joslin has recently suggested that since acidosis means a loss to the body of all the fixed bases, it is not enough to intro- duce sodium alone, and recommends the use of alkaline salts of potash, soda, lime, and magnesia. Theoretically it would seem a simple matter to treat acidosis by giving carbohydrate. In acidosis from inanition or starvation the use of a starchy food undoubtedly brings about a cessation of the acetonuria. Except in dia- betes, however, carbohydrates have not been much used in actual or threatening acid in- toxication. Hunter suggests giving to patients about to be anaesthetised a well-sweetened meal three hours prior to operation. In acute acid intoxication, whether cyclic vomiting or delayed chloroform poisoning, the use of sugar or lactose does not appear to afford much benefit, but it seems reasonable to give them a trial, along I with alkalies. Possibly levulose, which is more