DIGESTIO^J 117 the caecum by periodical I'elaxation of the ileo- CBecal valve. As the csecum and ascending colon fill up, contractions pass along the bowel in a backward direction, driving the contents of the colon into the cfecum and churning them up there. As more and more food enters the large intestine while this churning is taking place, the transverse colon gradually becomes filled. In consequence of the mixing to which they are subjected the contents of the bowel lose water, and are gradually ti'ansferi-ed to the descending colon, which is mainly a channel for storage. All the movements of the alimentary tract depend on a nervous mechanism, and are not produced through the agency of internal secre- tions or hormones (o. infra). True peristalsis— proximal contraction and distal relaxation of a segment of the bowel—is a co-ordinated move- ment depending on a central mechanism in the medulla or chord. The movements of the stomach descriljed above occur independently of the extrinsic nerves, and must, therefore, be contr'olled by the nerve plexuses in the walls of the viscus, or, as Starling supposes, be of myogenic origin. Bayliss and Starling regard the local contractions of the small intestine as myogenic. Gastric Digestion.—The mucous membrane of the stomach is divisible into two parts—the cardiac four-fifths and the pyloric fifth. In the living animal these are distinguishable, and are demarcated by a transverse band. The glands in the fundus secrete hydrochloric acid and pepsin; those of the pylorus, pepsin only. After the insalivated bolus of food is swallowed it lies in the fundus, and the acid gastric juice penetrates it so slowly that salivary digestion goes on in its interior for twenty minutes or half an hour. The secretion of gastric juice consequent on a normal meal consists of two phases—(1) a lai'ge amount which is reflexly secreted immediately, and (2) a smaller quantitj^ which is excited chemically during the later stage of digestion by the presence of food in the stomach. (1) " Appetite " Juice.—Pawlow's experiments prove that the flow of gastric juice into the stomach which occurs at the beoinning of a meal is a reflex phenomenon. In a dog with a gastric fistula direct irritation of the lining of the stomach evokes no secretion, but the sight of food, especially if the animal is hungry, produces a copious flow. If an tesophageal fistula is made, so that food swallowed does not enter the stomach, and the dog be fed, gastric juice begins to flow five minutes after the "sham feeding" commences. As the sham feeding does not appease the dog's appetite, it will go on eating for hours, during the whole of which period the juice flows freely. The reflex arc which controls this phase of gastric secretions has, therefore, several aff"erent channels—sight, smell, etc. ; its efferent path is by the vagus, for division of both vagi prevents the flow, and stimulation of their divided ends produces it. (2) " Chemical" Juice.—The second phase of gastric secretion is independent of the above mechanism, because it occurs even after all the nerves going to the stomach are divided. Neither is it due simply to the mechanical presence of food, because some foods do not produce it. The foods which are most active in exciting it are soups and extracts of meat, and these act only when introduced locally into the stomach, not when they are injected into the circulation. The earlier explanation of this fact was that the second phase of gastric secretion was controlled by a peripheral reflex mechanism, but Edkins has pi'oved that the correct inter- pretation is quite diflPerent. The second phase of gastric secretion is really the result of a specific chemical excitant which is produced in the pyloric mucous membrane by the first products of digestion. This chemical excitant is called the gastric secretin, or hormone (see Hormone). In an ana3sthetised animal's stomach which has heen completely cut away from all extrinsic nerves, and into which no food enters, the introduction by way of the vessels of a decoction of pyloric mucous membrane causes a flow of gastric juice. The injection of bouillon, or of decoctions of cardiac mucous membrane, has no such effect. Gastric digestion, therefore, is due to the co-operation of two factors :—The first gastric secretion, aroused by appetite and mastication, is of fairly constant composition. Its acidity equals -48 per cent. HCl. If allowed to act on proteids for a sufficient time, amino-acids and other of ultimate products of proteolysis are formed, but if the time of digestion be restricted to four or six hours, only albumoses and peptones are produced. The second gastric secretion, which appears long after the appetite is satisfied, varies considerably according to the nature of the food and the amount of hormone it produces. The quantity of gastric secretion is diminished by the administration of oil, or of alkalies ; acids increase it. Pancreatic Secretion.—The greatest flow of pancreatic juice occurs during the third hour aftei' a meal, at the time when the largest quantity of acid chyme is entering the duodenum. The secretion is excited by the flow of an acid into the beginning of the small intestine. This action does not take place through the agency of the vagus or splanchnic reflex arc, for secretion is undisturbed even though these nerves are cut. Bayliss and Starling have shown, moreover, that pancreatic secretion can be excited by the injection of acid into a loop of duodenum which has been entirely deprived of all nervous connection with the pancreas. It follows that the effect is a chemical