BIOTRIPSIS 59 are liable to it are also prone to cancer and papillomata. Birth-Rate. See Natality. ** Bivo."—A proprietary dietetic prepara- tion (meat wine) containing iron, meat extract, glucose, and alcohol, as shown by the analysis published in the British Medical Journal (i. for 1909, p. 796). Black water Fever. — Four main theories have been held as to the nature of blackwater fever:—(1) It is a pernicious form of malaria. (2) It is a genuine intoxication. (3) It is a distinct disease due to some specific organism. (4) It is due to a specific hsemo- lysin. In a recently published memoir, Chris- tophers and Bentley record an elaborate series of observations on this disease, which go in the direction of demonstrating that it is caused by an auto-hsemolysin—that is, a hsemolysin developed by the tissues of the patient by auto-immunisation against his own I'ed cells. Bentley and Christophers believe that they are justified in denying that the disease is due to any ordinary blood pai'asite, in particular that it is a piroplasmosis. The most thorough and prolonged scrutiny of blood films failed to show any specific organism. They find evidence of its relation to malaria in (1) the greater in- cidence of malarial infection among blackwater fever patients than among the rest of the community, and (2) in the fact that during the progi'css of blackwater fever signs of malaiia— i.e. the presence of the plasmodium in the blood —disappear. It is not a specific disease, but a stage in the progress of malarial infection long continued and constantly repeated—though not malaria, it is of malarial origin. Clinical and Pathological Features.— The disease is ushered in with rigors and high temperature; there is ha^moglobinuria, splenic enlargement, epigastric pain, and, later, jaun- dice. As a rule the ha^moglobinuria lasts two or three days; relapses, within one to ten days, are common, especially in the more severe cases. Blood Changes. — The blood corpuscles fall rapidly to as low as a million in bad cases. During the early stages of the disease there are not many changes in the red cells apart from the diminution in their number; " shadows" are met with in stained films, and also small globular corpuscles—" spherocytes." The large mononuclears are relatively increased. In the later stages—from the second or third day onwards into convalescence—polychromasia is well marked and nucleated reds are found. Macrophages appear in the blood; these are of three types—(1) resembling the ordinary large mononuclears but varying from 15 to 25/x in diameter; (2) large, irregularly circular cells with compact nuclei; (3) large cells with ir- regular nuclei measuring 20-30 The ordinary granular series of leucocytes are immature, and some myelocytes can be found. The interpreta- tion of the blood changes by the observers is —first, a rapid blood destruction ; second, evi- dence of phagocytosis of reds; third, regenera- tive appearances (polychromasia, erythroblasts, immature leucocytes). Experimental Hemolysis in Animals.— After injections of hsemolytic serums into dogs, changes were found in the internal organs com- parable to what are met with in blackwater fever. Christophers and Bentley found, as had previously been shown by Levaditi, that the principal cause of anaemia in animals so treated was an intense phagocytosis of the red cells in the spleen. Hajmoglobinajmia was not neces- sarily associated with this, but when it did occur hsemoglobinuria also took place. Hsemo- globinsemia and hsemoglobinuria are therefore concomitant phenomena, the latter necessarily following the former. The important point is that haemoglobinajmia (without which there is no hsemoglobinuria) does not necessarily result fi'om the most intense blood destruction, but must depend on some further factor. Therefore thej' distinguish two forms of blood destruc- tion—(1) Erythrokatalysis, or phagocytosis of red cells without extra-cellular solution, and (2) lysajmia, or extra-cellular solution, hsemo- globinsemia, and hajmoglobinuria. In seeking for a cause of lyssemia Bentley and Christophers inA^estigated the isotonic point of the cells, and could find no evidence that the solution of the corpuscles M^as due to variations in the osmotic relations of these and the plasma. They believe that what happens is this : In malai'ia, particularly in the malignant tertian forms, there is recurrent blood destruction, with constant phagocytosis of red cells. As a result of this constant phagocytosis the tissues form hgemolysins. Periodical attacks of hfemo- globinuria are due "to sudden libei'ation of complement in the living body." The third part of the theory at present rests on no actual data. Acting on the assumption that black- water fever is due to an auto-htemolysin pro- duced in the tissues in response to long-con- tinued blood destruction of malarial origin, Christophers and Bentley have pushed quinine systematically, and thereby reduced the amount of blackwater in the Duars. They suggest that it may prove feasible to produce an anti-hsemo- lytic amboceptoi', or an anti-complement, as a remedy for the disease. {See also Paroxysmal Hemoglobinuria.) Christophers and Bentley, "Blackwater Fever," Scientific Memoirs of the Govt, of India (Simla), 1908. Bladder, Female. Examination 60 Malformations 61 Intraltgamentary Bladder . . .61 Ectopia Vesicce . , . .61