IMMUNITY 196 moderate susceptibility goes along with a local leucocytosis and inflammation with destruc- tion of the invading organisms, gi'eat suscepti- bility with slight, or absence of, leucocytosis. During the immunisation of a susceptible animal absence of phagocytosis may be replaced by active phagocytosis (positive chemotaxis). This Metchnikoff explains as being due to stimulation of the leucocytes. The digestion of bacteria by phagocytes is due to ferments (cytases) which are normally present in the cells, but escape into the serum when the cells are injured. In the serum these cytases constitute the complement. The ambo- ceptor of an antibacterial serum fixes itself to the organisms and aids the action of the cytase whether the latter be met with in the cells (in phagocytosis) or in the serum (after it has been set free by phagolysis). Extracellular digestion of bacteria caiuiot occur unless phagolysis has taken place. Aml^oceptors are derived from leucocytes, but not all of them are set free in the serum; if they remain in the cells the power of intracellular digestion is increased. Thus Metchnikoff's theory is not, on the whole, contradictory to Ehrlich's ; he approaches the question from a difi'erent standpoint, and looks chiefly on the body cells as the defences against bacteria. The phagocytic theory harmonises fairly well with the side-chain theory in so far as antibacterial serums are concerned ; it does not, however, satisfactorily explain antitoxic action, and fails to take into account the importance of opsonins in phago- cytosis. Metchnikoff's view that increased phagocytosis is due to direct stimulation of the leucocytes is contradicted by right's woi'k on the development of opsonic action. SUPERSENSITISATION.—The curious fact has been observed, that animals highly immunised against tetanus may yet succumb to minute doses of toxin, and the nature of this " paradox reaction " has recently been made the subject of much study. Under the names Super- sensitiveness, Aiio.phylaxis, and Allergie, a number of phenomena of this paradox nature have been described, and the results of these investigations have been applied to the inter- pretation of some of the clinical manifestations of disease, and to the practical ends of diagnosis. Theobald Smith observed that whereas a normal guinea-pig suffers no harm from the injection of 5 c.c. horse serum, a guinea-pig which has been previously treated, a fortnight or so earlier, with a minimal dose (xo^oo to TWTT enough) in most cases succumbs to a subsequent dose of 5 c.c. (Theobald Smith's phenomenon). Richet proved that second injections of the poison of actinia—a mai'ine animal which grows near the roots of sponges, and causes sponge divers' disease—were much more toxic than first injections; if the animal survived, however, the symptoms were of shorter duration. He coined the word Anaphylaxis to denote supersensitiveness of this kind. Pirquet employs the word Allergie in much the same way. By it is meant the altered reactivity of an infected animal to a second infection with the same poison; the expression is evidently wider in its connotation than Anaphylaxis. The exact mechanism by which supersensi- tisation is brought about is not known. The condition, once established, persists for a long- period of time, and may follow the injection of minute doses of either heterologous serums or bacterial toxins. Supersensitiveness is specific ; the substances which evoke it (allergens— Pirquet) are thermostalile. The condition of supersensitiveness is characterised by:—(1) Shortening of the normal incubation period of the particular infection ; (2) diminished dura- tion of the symptoms produced; (3) suscepti- bility to doses of infective agents which would not affect normal individuals. Clinically, Anaphylaxis is of importance in the following conditions :— (1) Serum Disease.—In a considerable pro- portion of patients treated with diphtheria antitoxin (54'6 j^er cent, according to the statistics of the Belvedere Fever Hospital) the symptoms collectively known as " serum disease" ensue. They are due to the horse serum used as a vehicle, not to the antitoxin itself. The leading symptoms are pains in the joints and urticarial, erythematous, or measly rashes, with fever. They are often heralded by adenitis. Serum disease never follows a first injection immediately : there is an incubation period of about nine days, during which there is a leucocytosis, and during which, presumably, antibodies are being formed. The events of an attack of serum disease may last for a number of days. What has been described may be termed a " normal reaction;" when, however, repeated doses of serum are given, the symptoms no longer pursue the normal course: (1) The reaction sets in without the intervention of the normal latent period; it may occur on the 4th or 5th day ("accelerated reaction"), or within a few hours of injection ("immediate reaction"). (2) Whereas a normal attack of serum disease runs a course of a good many days, or even several weeks, accelei'ated or immediate attacks are of shorter duration ; the symptoms may be so severe, while they last, as apparently to endanger life, or they may consist merely of local rashes at the seat of injection. A further important point must be noted : time is re- quired for the development of supersensitisa- tion. Hence the accelerated or immediate reaction is only seen when an interval of at least ten days has elapsed between first in- jection and that which gives rise to the