65 BLOOD (Uskow, Gulland, Grawitz, Michaelis, Pappen- heim). The supporters of the monist theory, however, are in no wise agreed upon the nature of the primitive cell. According to Uskow it is a small lymphocyte; to Pappenheim a large lymphocyte; to Wollf an undifferentiated lym- phoid cell, apparently resembling the " large mononuclear." The genealogy ascribed to the different forms of leucocyte naturally differs according to which of these is regarded as the true primitive cell. Ehrlich's propositions have been attacked on the grounds that— (1) granules (" azurophil") can be demon- strated in lymphocytes (Michaelis); (2) lym- phocytes show amoeboid movement (Hirsch- feld); (3) the lymphocytosis of early tuber- culous serous effusions is active, not passive. Finally, a number of anomalous cases of leukaemia have now been described which do not exactly fit into either of the two main categories of the disease, but in which both lymphocytes, myelocytes, and unclassifiable intermediate forms are in excess. Blood in Infancy and Childhood.—The average number of red corpuscles at birth is 5| millions, but they decrease rapidly during the first week, reaching the adult number of 5 millions by the seventh or eighth day. At birth the percentage of haemoglobin is 110; this also falls steadily until by the sixth month it is no more than 70. It does not begin to rise again until the end of the second year. In the newly-born infant the leucocytes number 20,000 per c.mm. During the first week there is a somewhat rapid fall, followed by a slow rise, which continues during the first six months, by which time they average 15,000. After this time a still more gradual diminution occurs, but the adult figure is not reached until the fifth or sixth year. The birth leucocytosis is due to excess of polynuclears, whereas the leu- cocytosis of infancy is due to excess of lympho- cytes, and is probably neither more nor less than a manifestation of the activity of the lymphoid tissues, which is a feature of this period of life. Within a day or two of birth a few nucleated reds may be found in the peripheral blood; at a later date their appear- ance must be regarded as pathological. Pathological Changes. — In interpreting the changes in the blood in anaemia and other diseases of infancy, the following points should be borne in mind :—(1) Reversion to the foetal type of blood-formation takes place under very slight provocation. Normoblasts, megaloblasts, and myelocytes may appear in any form of anaemia, and have not the same grave signifi- cance as in later life. (2) Leucocytosis is common in all forms of anasmia. (3) Owing to the activity of the lymphoid tissues, lymphocy- tosis is of frequent occurrence. (4) The colour index is always low. Clinical Examination of the Blood.— 1. Estimation of Hcemogluhin.—Haldane's Hcemo- globinometer.—This is a modification of Gower's instrument in which the error arising from the use of an inconstant artificial colour standard is obviated. The standard devised by Haldane consists of a hermetically sealed tube con- taining a dilute solution of blood of known oxygen capacity saturated with coal gas. The solution is permanent, and the colour does not deteriorate. The instrument is used in the same way as Gower's haemoglobiiiometer, except that before a reading is taken the gi'aduated tube containing the patient's blood is filled with coal gas and closed with the finger. The liquid is then made to run up and down the tube so that the haemoglobin is saturated with CO, and shows the characteristic pink tint. The per- centage is read off in the ordinary way ; the error need not exceed 1 per cent., and where great accuracy is required the mean of several readings is taken. As the pigment in both tubes is the same, a standard light is unnecessary. Tallquist's Scale provides a simple, though somewhat rough means of estimating the haemo- globin. It consists of a lithographed scale of tints and a book of filter papers. A drop of blood is allowed to soak into a piece of filter paper, and the colour of the spot compared with the scale. The limit of error does not exceed 10 per cent. 2. Glycogen Reaction.—Technique.—The solu- tion employed, which serves for fixing, staining, and mounting, is composed of iodine, 1 gram; iodide of potash, 3 grams; distilled water, 100 c.c, with enough gum arabic to give a syrupy consistence. A drop of this is placed on a slide, and covered with an ordinary air- dried smear pi-eparation of the blood to be examined. After half a minute the superfiuous iodine solution is absorbed with filter paper, when the specimen is ready for examination under an oil-immersion lens. Daylight, or incandescent gas is the best illuminant; a yellow flame is very unsatisfactory. Normally the red corpuscles stain brightish yellow, the leuco- cytes pale yellow. A certain amount of extra- cellular glycogen is seen in the form of brown or red granules, but under normal circumstances the leucocytes show no trace of it. The amount of this extra-cellular glycogen varies a good deal, and no significance can be attached to it. These appearances are regarded as a " negative glycogen reaction." In the " positive reaction " the polynuclear leucocytes show red or brown glycogen either (1) as a diffuse coloration, (2) as a few granules scattered through the cell, or (3) as coarse granules, most abundant at the periphery of the cell body or projecting like pseudopodia from it. The number of cells so affected varies between 2 or 3 per cent, and 9 per cent., and the degree of reaction is pro- portionate to the severity of the cause. A positive reaction occurs—(1) in severe disturb- 5