209 INFANTILISM hereditary sypliilitics suffer from retarded de- velopment. (3) Infantilism from visceral defect or disease. This is the most interesting group. In it several varieties can be differentiated. (a) Thyroid in/aiitiliam. This has been especially studied by Hertoghe. Persons suffering from infantilism due to thyroid inadequacy undergo an arrest of development proportional to the age at the onset of the malady, and they manifest more or less of the symptoms and appearances of mild myxoedema. Their faces are rounded, the eyes puffy, the nose is broad, the abdomen large, and the contour of the bones concealed by a thick layer of fat. The temperature tends to be subnormal; there is often constipation. The disposition is childish. (b) Pancreatic iiifantilism. The first case of this kind was reported in 1902 by Dr. Byrom Bramwell. At the age of ISy^ the patient had the stature and development of a child of 11 ; his intelligence was good. For 9 years he had suffered from chronic diarrhoea. The pancreatic secretion was shown to be absent (1) by the presence in the stools of undigested fat, which diminished on the administration of pancreatic extract; (2) by the low excretion of urinary phosphoric acid on a milk diet, the output being increased by the administration of pancreatic extract; (3) by giving Sahli's capsules of iodoform enclosed in a glutoid envelope, which is only dissolved by the pancreatic secretion. On treatment with pancreatic ex- tract the diarrhoea ceased ; growth, which had been in abeyance for 8 years, recommenced, and development of the primary and secondary sexual characters took place. Unfortunately treatment with pancreatic extract is not always successful in cases which to all appearance resemble that described by Dr. Bramwell. (c) Intestinal infantilism. This has recently been exhaustively studied by Herter. He describes as intestinal infantilism a class of case with the following characters:—Arrest of bodily development; maintenance of the mental power; marked abdominal distension ; moder- ate ansemia ; rapid onset of physical and mental fatigue ; various digestive disturbances, especi- ally fat-diarrhoea. The keynote of this form of infantilism is the persistence into later child- hood of the intestinal flora which are normal in infancy. The faecal fields consist of Gram- positive organisms, instead of, as is normal. Gram-negative organisms. The urine gives evidence that abnormal intestinal putrefaction is taking place—high ethereal sulphates, in- dicanuria, indolaceturia, and excess of phenol. The calcium, magnesium, and phosphorus balances show a loss. In the fseces much fat is lost, which should normally be absorbed. Herter's explanation of the pathology of the condition is, briefly, as follows:—The re- tarded development is not due to an error of metabolism, but to defective digestion and absorption. The patients are intolerant of carbohydrates—the digestion is always dis- turbed when these are taken freely; they have little power of absorbing fat; their protein absorption is also rather bad. In con- sequence, nutrition is impaired, while, on account of the loss of calcium and magnesium, the growth of the skeleton suffers. The malassimilation is due to chronic inflammatory processes in the small intestine and colon, brought about by the presence of an un- suitable flora, which also gives rise to abnormal putrefaction and toxaemia. The characteristic feature of the intestinal flora is the persistence of the infantile type. Treatment.—The chief indications are dietetic. Carbohydrates should be given in small quantities, beginning with about 20 grams in the day ; starches and dextrinised preparations (biscuits) are best. Sugars and soluble carbohydrates, such as malt and Mellin's food, are objectionable. Lactose is the best of the sugars. Potatoes are not well borne. Fats should be restricted until the stools no longer show any loss. Proteins. —Milk is the chief constituent of the diet; meat should be sparingly and cautiously used. Gelatin ought to be added to the diet. About 1 oz. per day can be absorbed. Gelatin has some caloric value (120 cal. per oz.); it is a partial substitute for portein fat and carbohy- drate ; it is unable to support certain forms of bacterial life associated with this disease ; it is incapable of undergoing putrefaction based on the presence of the tyrosin molecule. Calcium lactate, magnesium lactate, and acid sodium phosphate should be given. In any case of infantilism a radiograph of the carpus should be taken ; if the epiphyseal cartilages have disappeared, growth is probably impossible; if they persist it may occur. Thyroid ought to be tried in all cases, even if there are no signs of thyroid inadequacy. LITERATURE.—John Thomson, Art. " Infan- tili.sm," in CLIFFORD Allbutt and Rolleston's System of Medicine, 2nd ed., vol. iv. pt. i. (London), 1908 (with references).—Byrom Bramwell, Scott. Med. and Surg, Journ., April 1904.—Gilbert and Rathert, Arch. gin. de mid. (Paris), 1st March 1904.—Launois, Nouvelle Iconographie de la SalpHriere, 1902.—Pagniez, Presse mid. (Paris), 12th Dec. 1903.—Hastings Guilford, Brit. Med. Journ., 8th Oct. 1904.—C. A. Heeter, In- fantilism from Chronic Intestinal Infection (Macmillan Co., New York), 1908. Infiltration Anaesthesia.—'bee Anesthesia (Local). Infundibular Extract. — aS'^^ Pituitary Gland. Inoscopy.—A procedure recommended by Jousset for the detection of tubercle bacilli in exudates ; coagulation is allowed to take place