•240 LEUKEMIA diagnosis can be made during life by the asso- ciation of (a) leueopenia, (b) high percentage of large lymphocytes, and (c) progressive severe anemia without signs of regeneration. In all doubtful or atypical cases of leuksemia it is essential to calculate the total number of each variety of cell present, as by this means a much clearer conception of the functional activity of the haemopoietic organs is gained than from the percentages alone (cf. Blood, Clinical Ex- amination). (2) Acute Myelocytic Leukamiia.—It was for- merly held that all acute cases of leukaemia belonged to the lymphocytic group, but this is now known not to be the case. Though lym- phocytic forms predominate, acute myelocytic leukfemia does occin\ The course and general clinical features of the malady are practically identical with those of the more common lym- phocytic form. The degree of the anaemia is considerable ; the leucocyte count is usually low, but sometimes rises to a figure comparable to what occurs in chronic cases. The essential change in the blood is the presence of a con- siderable percentage of neutrophile myelocytes —10 per cent, at least. Eosinophiles may be absent or few ; the same applies to an even greater extent to mast cells. Hirschfeld" re- gards absence of eosinophiles and mast cells as characteristic of acute as opposed to chronic myelocytic leuksemia. As in other forms of atypical leuksemia the classification of the leucocytes found is very difficult on account of the presence of aberrant forms ; the diffi- culty is enhanced by the fact that many of them stain badly. It is usually possible to trace a complete series, beginning at the one end with large lymphocytes and ending at the other in neutrophile myelocytes. Normoblasts may be plentiful or absent. In a paper on the subject Billings and Capps' give the following as the more important sources of error in diagnosis:—(1) Chronic myelocythsemia with an acute exacerbation. Hei'e the history is of long standing, and the spleen is large, whereas in acute cases it is scarcely palpable in the early stages. (2) Lymphatic leuksemia complicated by leucocytosis. Myelocytes are absent. (3) Acute lymphatic leuksemia with predominance of lai'ge mononuclears. Myelo- cytes are absent. (4) Acute infections causing rapid anaemia with myelocytes and nucleated reds. The leucocyte count is low, and the myelocytes few. (5) Acute exacerbation of pernicious anaemia in which a leucocytosis with myelocytes may occur. (6) Neoplasms invading the marrow. (3) Leuhcemia Intermediate in Type hetween the Myelocytic and Lymphocytic Varieties.— Difficulty in deciding from the blood examina- tion whether a leukaemia should be reckoned as lymphocytic or myelocytic arises under two conditions—(a) A considerable number of cases are now on record in which the blood shows both excess of lymphocytes (usually large lymphocytes) and numerous myelocytes, {b) Yet other cases are described in which the blood during one period of the disease was myelocytic, and subsequently became lympho- cytic, or vice versd. These intermediate forms, which may, for convenience, be termed "mixed-cell leuksemia," require some further description, {a) A typical instance of mixed-cell leuksemia of the first group, in a child aged .5, recorded by Fowler,^ showed the following blood picture :—Red cor- puscles, 2,610,000; leucocytes, 240,800, with small lymphocytes, 10*2 per cent., large lympho- cytes, 34-4 per cent., non-granular mononuclears (" lymphoid cells "), 15-9 per cent., polynuclears, 16 3 percent., neutrophile myelocytes, 17 per cent., eosinophiles, "8 per cent., eosinophile myelocytes, \ \ per cent., mast cells, 4-3 per cent., nucleated reds, 4000 per c.mm. That is to say, here is a case which cannot be reckoned among the lymphocythsemias on account of the mj^elocytes present, nor to the myelsemias, on account of the large lymphocytes. The total lymphocytes (including small, large, and uni- nuclears) amounted to 62'5 per cent. In an almost exactly similar case, Findlay '' found marked leucoblastic hyperplasia of the marrow as in myelocytic leuksemia, and hyperplasia of the lymphatic tissues, as in lymphocythsemia. The most satisfactory explanation of these mixed cases is afforded by assuming (as there is good ground for doing) that the lympho- cytes and myelocytes are not genetically dis- tinct, but both arise from a common ancestor. A characteristic feature of mixed-cell leuksemias is the large number of leucocytes which are intermediate morphologically between myelo- cytes and large lymphocj^tes ; an almost un- broken series of forms links the two, and this renders differential counting far from easy. WoUf and Michaelis," who were among the first to describe such cases, call them " lym- phoid-cell leukaemia " ; they look on the un- difterentiated lymphoid cell (the non-granular uninuclear) as the primitive leucocyte, and interpret the condition as being due to a pro- liferation of these elements. The term lym- phoid cell, however, has been applied to large lymphocytes, and is, therefore, likely to lead to confusion ; for this reason, and because it implies no theory, the term "mixed cell" is preferable. Emerson' sets out the common- ancestor theory in these words : " It may be that they [i.e. myeloblasts or undifferentiated lymphoid cells] are only an early generation of cell which later changes to one of the various granular cells, or perhaps to a red cell. It may be that in myelocytic cases the descendants of these cells which have changed to granular cells are increased; perhaps the disease attacks a different generation of bone marrow cell. . . .