ENDOCARDITIS 149 third of the cases. Dr. Norman Moore draws attention to a peculiarly sanguine frame of mind as characteristic of the disease. Even where, as has happened, the patient has himself been a medical man, it may be impossible to induce him to take a serious view of his con- dition, although organisms have been demon- strated in his blood. The diagnosis of chronic infective endocarditis is not easy; it may readily be mistaken for tuberculosis or malaria. Osier gives as the most suggestive features : (1) an old-standing valve lesion ; (2) the occur- rence of emboli {e.g. sudden enlargement of the spleen, or pains in the loin and ha3maturia); (3) the cutaneous symptoms ; (4) alterations in the murmurs and dilatation of the heart. Etiology.—This has been carefully worked out by Horder, not only as regards chronic, but as regards acute cases. He attaches great importance to blood cultures in coming to a diagnosis, and states that with a proper technique positive I'esults can be got in 90 per cent, of cases. In 40 cases of infectious endo- carditis in which an organism was isolated from the blood during life, streptococci were found 26 times, Pfeilfer's bacillus 5 times, pneu- mococci 5 times, gonococci twice, unclassified once, staphylococci once. The streptococcus, therefore, is the prevalent organism, and the interesting point brought out by Horder is that it is especially the less virulent strains of the organism which are met with. Horder distinguishes five types of streptococci— s. pyogenes, pneumococcus, s. J'cecalis, s. sali- varius, and s. anginosits. The last three are closelj'^ allied to the saprophytic streptococci of the alimentary tract; they are of low virulence, not being pathogenic to mice, and yield l^io- chemical reactions which differentiate them sharply from s. pyogenes. Horder associates these characteristics of the causal organism Avith the following clinical facts :—(1) The chronicity and latency of the disease ; (2) the occurrence of afebrile periods; (3) the absence of suppur- ation in embolic infarcts ; (4) the scanty or absent leucocytosis; (5) the absence of any visible focus of infection ; (6) the enormous number of organisms which may exist in the blood without causing any grave symptoms. Prognosis.—Chronic infective endocai'ditis is probably always fatal. Though the organism is of such low virulence, this very fact shows that for it to have gained a lodgment in the body the patient's defensive powers must have been correspondingly poor. The duration of the disease may be several weeks or months after a positive diagnosis has been made by blood culture. Treatment by chemical anti- dotes, by antibacterial serums, and by vaccines, has proved quite unsuccessful. In many cases the opsonic index is high though the patient is obviously going downhill, and this rather mili- tates against the idea that vaccines will do good. Horder advises that a polyvalent anti- streptococcus serum should be tried by intra- venous injection. As a precaution, oral sepsis should be treated, especially in persons with valvular disease. REFERENCES.—OSLER, Quarterly Joarn. of Med., Jan. 1909.—HoKUER, Ibid., April 1909. Endotoxins. — Toxins which do not diffuse out of bacteria into a culture. Engfel's Alkali meter.—An instru- ment for determining the alkalinity of the blood; diluted blood is titrated with normal solution of tartaric acid till the mixture reacts with lacmoid (litmus) paper, and the amount of tartaric acid used gives the degree of alkalinity (Da Costa, Clinical. Hematology, p. 96, 1905). EneSOl.—A soluble salt of mercury and arsenic, recommended in the treatment of syph- ilis ; it may be given, in doses of 1 c.cm., as an intra-muscular injection, and is favourably reported on by C. Fraenkel and J. Kahn {Med. Klin., Berl., vi. p. 267, 1910). EnOStOSiS.—An osseous tumour forming a localised growth within a bone, but not 1)eing so completely defined as to be independent of the surrounding tissue; it contrasts with an exostosis. Enterogrenous Cyanosis.—The co- existence of chronic cyanosis and intestinal disorder was first described by Stokvis and Talma, and subsequently by Hymans van den Bergh. In 1908 G. A. Gibson proved that the cyanosis was due to the a'",tivity of micro- organisms, and gave to it the name of microbic cyanosis. In all the recorded cases the cyan- osis has been very pronounced, but nevertheless it gives rise to little or no discomfort. It may last for years, and is sometimes associated with clubbing of the fingers ; hyperglobulia, how- ever, has not been reported. In all cases, too, there has been a history of chronic gastro- intestinal disorder, generally diarrhoea, and often putrid stools. The blood shows the characteristic spectrum of metha^.moglobin (q.v. Encyclop. and Diet, of Med., Vol. IX. p. 264), though in one case sulphohaemoglobinasmia is said to have been present. That a connection exists between the cyanosis and the intestinal disorder has been repeatedly proved by the effect of treatment; in one patient the cyanosis disappeared so long as the diet was restricted to milk ; in others, cure of the diari'ha?a has ameliorated or even abolished the cyanosis. Van den Bergh prov^ed that during the exist- ence of the cyanosis the blood contained nitrites, but while he thus demonstrated the cause of the methaemoglobinsemia, he left the source of the nitrites an open question. Gibson and Carstairs