TINEA CAPITIS 371 surrounding scalp, and so infect it. Therefore, if the disease is at all extensive, it is advisable to ray the whole head. In such cases the exposures cannot be given all in one day, as the child gets too restless, but on successive days. The beneficial action of the X-rays is purely due to the mechanical removal of the diseased hairs and the temporary cessation of the hair growth. Whilst the hair is out, energetic local treatment should be carried on so as to kill any fungus which may be in the empty follicles, and which might reinfect the hair when it grows again. Should the hair not fall out after the first exposure, the treatment may be repeated 4-5 weeks later with safety. The only risk attached to this method of treatment is that an overdose be given and the hair does jiot grow again, but with proper care and attention to details the risk is very slight. Although Sabouraud cures his cases in about 6 weeks, such rapid cures have not been obtained in this country. It is found that diseased stumps remain in the follicles. Such stumps should be sought for and squeezed out if necessary by a comedo extractor. These diseased stumps, however, must not be confused with atrophied stumps, which are like those seen in alopecia areata, and are not infrequently seen after X-ray treatment. When the hair grows in again after X-rays it is often some- what curly and slightly darker in colour than previously. REFKRENOES.—Sabouradd, Extraits des Annales de I'lnstititt Pasteur, xvii., Jan. 1904.—Sabohkaud and Noire, Annales de dermat. et syph., July 1904.—Belot, Radiotherapy inSkin, Disease (Eng. trans.), 19(i4.—Bunch, Brit. Journ. Derm., p. 265, 1904.—MoRBis and Dore, Light and X-ray Treatment of Skin Diseases, 1907.— SlCHEL, Brit. Med. Journ., p. 256, 1906. Tiodine.—'S'ee Thiodinb. "Tippee" Petroleum Emul- sion.—A proprietary preparation containing purified liquid petroleum in a vehicle of malt ■extract; it is said to contain also iron and lime salts and free iodine. See Report in Brit. Med. Journ.., i. for 1910, p. 146. Titra-tlon.—Volumetric analysis carried out with the help of standard solutions (Fr. titre., standard). Tokela.U.—A skin disease occurring in the Islands of the Pacific, resembling pity- riasis, ichthyosis, and herpes circinata, and curable by antiparasitic preparations. Tollen's Test.—A test for pentose in urine; concentrated hydrochloric acid and phloroglucin are added to tubes of suspected and normal urine, and these tubes are placed in a boiling water bath for a few minutes ; in the presence of pentose an intense red zone appears in the upper part of the tube. Tolypyrin.—A substance belonging to the antipyrin group, crystalline, and almost insoluble in water; it does not seem to possess any advantages over antipyrin. Tolysa.1.—The salicylic acid salt of toly- pyrin, recommended in 5 to 20 grain doses in neuralgia, articular rheumatism, etc. TonolS.—The trade name for Schering's glycero-phosphates. Tonometer, Gartner's.—&e Blood Pressure {Measurement). Tonometer, Schiotz's. — An oph- thalmological instrument for measuring intra- ocular pi'essure ; a series of small weights is supported by the resistance of the eyeball, and a pointer on a • scale indicates the result {Norsk. Mag. f. Lcegevidensk., 5 R., vi. p. 848, 1908). Topfer'S Test.—A qualitative and quantitative test for free hydrochloric acid in the gastric contents, based upon the coloration (carmine-red) which a 0 5 per cent, alcoholic solution of dimethyl-amido-azobensol takes in the presence of the acid. Topfer has also a test for estimating the amount of combined hydrochloric acid. See Webster, Diagnostic Methods, pp. 61, 63, 67, 1909. Totipotential.—/See Blastoma. Town Planning^.—The application of scientific forethought and the principles of hygiene to the establishment of villages, especially of those in the neighbourhood of large cities (such as London and Birmingham) where a rapid increase in population may be expected ; a Housing and Town Planning Bill passed through Parliament in 1909, the objects of which were stated to be "the securing proper sanitary conditions, amenity, and con- venience " in connection with the laying out and use of land. See J. Robertson, Hope, Horsfall, and Fremantle, Brit. Med. Journal, ii. for 1910, pp. 600-604. Toxogfenin.—See Anaphylaxis. Toxoids.—See IMMUNITY {Theories). Toxones.—Modified toxins, bodies hav- ing little affinity to antitoxins (Ehrlich). Trachoma Bodies. — The reputed cause of trachoma of the conjunctiva; the