68 BLOOD a round nucleus, poor in chromatin, and a cyto- plasm which stains deep red with the triacid mixture. Its significance is unknown. lied Corpuscles. — 1. Megahhlasts. — Isolated megaloblasts may occur in any bad case of anaemia, but the only conditions in which they appear in abundance are pernicious anaemia, bothriocephalus ansemia, anajmia from nitro- benzole poisoning, and anaemia in infancy. 2. Alypical Erythrohlasts.—Under this head we may group cells intermediate between normo- and megalol)lasts, cells with multiple nuclei, and cells showing fragmentation of the nucleus. 3. Basophile Degeneration of Red Cmpusdes.— Granular Basophilia.—Basophile I'ed corpuscles show a fine stippling or granulation when stained with basic dyes. The granules may be scanty (two or thi'ee only) or scattered thi-oughout the whole cell. Basophile degeneration usually occurs in non-iuicleated cells, and is believed to be a product of nuclear disintegration. The condition occurs in pernicious and serious forms of secondary anaemia, but is especially charac- teristic of chronic lead-poisoning. The Bacteriological Examination of the Blood can only be satisfactorily carried out by withdrawing blood from a vein. A drop of blood obtained through a puncture of the skin is extremely liable to accidental contamination with skin organisms. Technique. — The skin over a vein in the forearm or on the dorsum of the foot is thoroughly sterilised by wash- ing with lysol, sterile water, and ethei-. The vein is made turgid by a proximally placed bandage, and the needle of a sterile syiinge {e.g. an antitoxin syringe) is plunged obliquely into its lumen. Several c.c. of blood should be withdrawn and inoculated in bouillon, on the surface of an agar tube, etc. Cultures fi'om the blood made in this way often give positive results in septicaimia, pneumococcal infection, and other blood infections. It has been shown, for example, that in typhoid fever the organism can be detected in the blood from the very onset of the malady, before it appears in the stools—a fact which proves that the disease is in truth a general blood infection. See Typhoid. Alkalinity of the Blood. — Haycraft's method of estimating the alkalinity of the blood {Encyclop. and Did., i. p. 417) has Ijeen superseded by Engel's alkalimeter and Dare's hsemoalkalimeter. In the former a solution of blood is titrated with -^-^ normal tartaric acid against litmus; in the latter the amount of TTj^^ normal tartaric acid required to neutralise a definite quantity of blood is estimated by the spectroscope, and from the figure so obtained the alkalinity is calculated. Up to the pre- sent time clinical alkalimetry has not proved of any real value. Cryoscopj. — This method of examination has not realised the anticipations which were formed of it when first introduced. See Cryo- SCOPY. Coagulation of the Blood.—A great num- bei' of methods have been devised from time to time for estimating the coagulability of the blood, but since serious fallacies are introduced in all except Addis's apparatus, a short descrip- tion of some of the more commonly used is all that is necessary. Wright's coagulometer is perhaps the best known. It consists of a series of uniformly calibrated tubes, into which blood is sucked; these are, when filled, maintained at a fairly constant temperature of 37° C. by means of a small water-bath. The coagulation time is determined by successively blowing the con- tents of the tubes on to filter-paper and noting when fibrin has formed. Sabrazes's method depends on the fact that when blood coagulates in capillary tubes a fine thread of fibrin can be demonstrated when the- tube is broken across. The tubes are intended to- be kept at a constant temperature. M'Gowan's method is somewhat similar. A tube with a lumen of 1-5 mm., and about 7 in. long, is filled with blood, and portions of the tube are broken off every half-minute until the thread of fibrin is seen. Brodie and liusseU's Method.—The apparatus, consists of a circular box, which fits on the stage of a microscope. The floor is of glass, and the lid consists of an inverted truncated glass cone, on the tip of which a diop of blood can be picked up. When the glass cone is in position the edges of the drop of blood can be focussed by the microscope. A constant tem- perature is maintained by a water-jacket, and the blood is kept in circular motion by a stream of air from a small blowpipe, which perforates the lateral wall of the box, impinging against its edge. This coagulometer was improved by Boggs, and greatly modified by Addis, whose appai'atus, although complicated, is the only one which gives consistent and comprehensible results. Addis's Coagulometer.—The apparatus consists of Boggs's modification of Brodie and Eussell's coagulometer, with a thermometer for reading the temperature in the chamber. Instead of depending on a current of air to cause a stream- ing movement of the corpuscles, Addis employs- paraffin oil, so that when the coagulometer is in use the blood is completely surrounded by oil, except when it is in contact with the glass, cone. The oil is delivered from a large tank, and there are arrangements for maintaining (a) an absolutely constant temperature, and {!>) a constant pressure of outflow. Addis has proved that in all the coagulometers hitherto employed, the provision made for regulating the tempera- ture is very imperfect, and that variations in temperature which previous observers regarded.