OSTEOPATHY 281 manipulative therapeutics see A. Bryce {Brit. \ Med. Jouryi., ii. for 1910, pp. 581-584; Leading j Article, p. 638; and Letters, pp. 1004, 1564, i 1824 : also in i. for 1910, pp. 400, 656. Ova.ltine. — A proprietary food pre- ' paration described as "composed of malt j extract, fresh Swiss cow's milk, fresh eggs, and | converted cocoa, and containing active leci- j thin "; its analysis is given in the Brit. Med. ! Journ., i. for 1910, p. 30. j Oxidases. — Oxidising fennents (sub- stances setting free active oxygen), which are found in many of the tissues and secretions ' of the body, and which include laccase (ferments j oxidising guaiacum and other organic sub- stances directly by means of atmospheric or ! dissolved oxygen), tyrosinase (ferments acting on tyrosin), aldehydase (ferments oxidising aromatic aldehydes, etc.), indophenol oxidase, the purin oxidases, and glycolytic ferments (causing the disappearance of sugar from animal tissues) ; related to the oxidases are the peroxidases (bodies oxidising only in the presence of a peroxide), the catalases (ferments ; decomposing hj^drogen peroxide, but incapable j of effecting the oxidation of oxidase reagents by means of the peroxide), and oxj'gen carriers I {e.g. the iron-containing pigments of the blood) ; i the oxidases and true peroxidases are bodies j Avhich have great instability ; they are believed to play a part in the defence of the organism against pathogenic microbes, and even to ' destroy toxins {e.g. diphtheria and tetanus). See summary of J. H. Kastle's work in Lancet, i i. for 1910, p. 1561. OXO.—A proprietary- extract of meat with dry beef-powder added ; an analysis and details are given in the Lancet, ii. for 1908, pp. 1242-1243. I Oxygrenia Water.— A proprietary water containing oxygen as well as carbonic I acid gas. See Report, Lancet, i. for 1910, p. 36. Pabst Extract.—A proprietary tonic described as " a liquid preparation of malt and hops, combined with calcium hypophosphite ; and iron pyrophosphate-alcohol 5 per cent. "; an analysis is given in the Brit. Med. Journ. (ii. for 1909, p. 563), showing 6-2 parts of alcohol by measure, 4-1 parts of dextrin by I weight, etc. " I "Paco" Diastase iVIait Ex- | tract.—A pi'oprietary malt extract reported ; on in the Lancet, ii. for 1909, p. 1678 ; Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1909, p. 1805. Palaeog'enetiC.—This term is applied to conditions which are, it is believed, explained by the presence in the early embryo of a germ, which normally disappeais, but which may in certain circumstances remain and develop. On this theory^ of ])al<eogenesis. Sir Jonathan Hutchinson explains the pattern of various skin anomalies (leucoderma, etc.). HeeBrit. Med. Journ., i. for 1910, pp. 980, 1146, 1152, 1479> ii. for 1910, pp. 258, 340, 405, 658, 856, 914. Pal mine.—A proprietary vegetable fat recommended for cooking purposes for those who object to the use of animal fat (lard, drip- ping, etc.) See Brit. Med. .Journ., i. for 1909, p. 475. Palmoform.—Methylene guaiacol, one of the insoluble compounds of guaiacol. Pancreas, Diseases of tlie. Diagnosis 281 TkeatjiIENT 284 Since Mr. Mayo Robson contributed the article on diseases of the pancreas to the Enci/cJopoidia Medica (Vol. IX. p. 70) he has, in collaboration with Dr. Cammidge, published a compendious treatise on the same subject, Avhich has added enormously to our knowledge of the affections of this organ, and has to some extent revolu- tionised our methods of treatment. In the department of diagnosis, particularly, we owe to Mr. Robson and Dr. Cammidge the introduc- tion of several new methods. Diagnosis of Pancreatic Disease.—Very great assistance in diagnosis may be obtained by a careful pathological examination of the urine and of the faces. (1) Fceces.—In many instances the condition of the stools is almost charactLristic of pancreatic mischief. The motions are bulky, pale, greasy, and offensive ; though soft and frequent, they are not liquid. Patients, however, often com- plain of "diarrhcea,"' but inquiry will elicit the fact that the stools are not realh' liquid. The motions contain undigested fat and much fibre. This condition of affairs is more common in pancreatitis than in malignant disease of the organ, probablv because in cancer the appetite is usually impaired, whereas in inflammatory affections it is more or less undisturbed, at any rate during the early stages. Fatty stools have long been recognised as symptomatic of pan- creatic affection ; the steatorrhoea occurs inde- pendently of jaundice, and is directly due to the pancreatic lesion. AVhen fat is very abundant it may be recognised by the naked eye as an oily exudate, but if full advantage is to be taken of the occurrence of steatorrhosa as a symptom of disease of the pancreas a quanti- tative analysis of the faeces is required. J/e^Aoii.—Maj'o Robson and Cammidge re- commend the following method :—"Two clean.