155 FIBROLYSIN diminution is, however, followed by a great excess of white blood corpuscles. It is also claimed for it that I'ed cicatricial tissue, as for example that resulting from a recent burn, will become paler and turgid and more flexible, so that movement of the part can be carried out more freely. It is also said that the injections of fibrolysin determine greater activity of lymph flow in the scar tissue. Inflammatory bands loosen and soften. Exudation material dissolves and is absorbed. Individual connective tissue fibres appear swollen, their outline blurred, and the nuclei more distinct This action of fibro- lysin is claimed to be specific for fibrous tissue of pathological origin, tending to cause its ultimate disappearance. From the few facts concei-ning the action of fibrolysin that have been mentioned, it will be seen that, if it possesses anything like all the properties that are claimed for it, it is a drug whose action is unique, and whose therapeutic application is extremely wide. Fibrolysin has been used in a great variety of diseases, such as cicatricial contracture fol- lowing after a burn, Dupuytren's contracture, keloids, oesophageal and pyloric stenosis, post- operative abdominal adhesions, stricture of the urethra, etc., etc. Method of Administration. —The drug is administered by hypodermic injection. The most satisfactory method is by intra-muscular injection into the buttock. It may be injected between the shoulders or into the biceps muscle. Those who have used this drug and obtained satisfactory results in cases such as Dupuytren's contracture, or contractures follow- ing burns, find that the best results are obtained by direct injection into the tissues at the site of the lesion. This latter method is, however, usually more difficult to carry out, and accom- panied by slight discomfort. Where the former methods are practised, the injections are accompanied by absolutely no pain or discom- fort, apart from the prick of the needle. Intra- venous injection may be employed, when it is desired to obtain the effect of fibrolysin with greater speed. Occasionally a patient is met with who possesses an idiosyncrasy towards the drug, and the injection of it is found to be fol- lowed by headache, faintness, and drowsiness on the day after the injection. Slight feverish reaction is occasionally met with. In order to obtain its beneficial effects, it is necessary that repeated injections be administered. These may be given every second day, 15, 20, or even 50 individual administrations being given. When a large number of injections are being- given, it is advisable, however, that the interval be longer than that above mentioned. In estimating the true value of fibrolysin, there are certain difficulties that confront one at the outset. The pathologist is somewhat at a loss to explain the specific selective action I which the drug is claimed to possess towards fil)rous tissue. On the other hand, it is always extremely difficult to exclude the operation of concomitant factors which may contribute to- wards an improvement of the part under treat- ment, as, for example, the gradual stretching of the palmar fascia which is brought about by the patient massaging the part to test whether it has become softer or not, and extending the finger to test whether any lengthening in the fibres has taken place. It is still a fact that cannot be gainsaid that certain surgeons of wide experience and undoul)ted integrity have ob- tained most astonishing results from the use of this remedy. Thus cases are met with—to return to the illustration of Dupuytren's con- tracture already taken—where cure has followed its use in this disease after many other remedies had been tried without success. Sufficient time has not yet elapsed to enable a final judgment to be given on the value of fibrolysin in the practice of medicine. At present all that can be said is this, that in many diseases it would be well to try the efficacy of this remedy before embarking upon more serious treatment. Fibrosis.—The increased development of connective tissue in an organ or part as the result of chronic inflammatory action, and also from such non-inflammatorj^ processes as strain (seen in vessel walls) and neoplasm-formation. Fiiig^ree implantation.—Bartlett's method of dealing with large abdominal hernias otherwise incurable ; the filigree of silver wire is laid upon the peritoneum, or as near to it as may be (e.g. on the transversalis fascia). See M'G-avin, L., Practitioner, Ixxvii. p. 161, 1906 ; Lancet, ii. for 1907, p. 1445. Films, Blood.—'S'ee Blood {Examina- tion of Stained Fil/nis). F i n g^e r-an d -Toe D i sease. — See Cancer ("Etiology," Green's Theory). Fixateur.—Metchnikoff"s term for am- boceptor or imnunie body. See Immunity. Fixation of Complement.—&e Bordet-Genuov Phenomenon ; Immunity. FlailfbOt.—The abnormal degree of flexi- bility exhibited by the foot in cases of infantile paralysis ; dangle-foot; arthrodesis causing anchylosis has improved the limb for purposes of locomotion. Flexner's Serum. — See Cerebro- spinal Meningitis [Treatment, Curative). Fluoroform.—A substance analogous