347 STOMACH, ACUTE DILATATION OF THE times occurs without any apparent cause in healthy persons. Nearly half of Conner's series of cases followed operation. It seems that the most important cause of acute dilata- tion is incarceration of the duodenum between the root of the mesentery in front and the spinal column behind. Normally, the terminal part of the duodenum is slightly flattened between the mesentery and the vertebi'al column, and if from any cause the small in- testine is pulled down and backwards, towards the pelvis, the gut may be occluded. Acute dilatation is therefore rendered possible by such conditions as (a) favour compression against the spine—e.g. lordosis of the lumbar vertebrae —and (6) facilitate the descent of the small intestine into the pelvis. In order that the latter may take place the mesentery must be long, the intestines must be empty (as after an operation), and the patient must be lying on his back. The possibility of the occurrence of chronic duodenal obstruction bj^ the mesentery is suggested by Codman. He thinks it may cause duodenal stasis, and hunger pain. The treatment for acute dilatation must be prompt. The stomach should be washed out and the patient placed in the genupectoral position and kept in that attitude for several hours, so as to facilitate the return of the prolapsed small intestine from the pelvis. Smith reports a case which was cured by turning the patient over on the abdomen and raising the foot of the bed 12 inches. A high enema was also given. The patient responded quickly to this treatment, which has obvious advantages over the prolonged maintenance of the knee- elbow position. KEFERENCES.—Conner, Amer. Journ. Med. Sci. (literature), March 1907.—Smith, Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc., 14th Sept. 1907.—Laffeb, Annals of Surgery, Feb.-April 1908.—Codman, Boston Med. Surg. Journ., 16th April 1908. Strauss' Method.—A qualitative test for lactic acid in the gastric contents, depending on the action of ether and ferric chloride solu- tion. See Webster, Diagnostic Methods, p. 71, 1909. Strophanthin.—The name given to several preparations of the glucosides of stroph- anthus; there are three varieties, differing chemically, physically, and physiologically: (1) strophanthin gratus, crystallised strophan- thin or pseudo-strophanthin (of the B.P. Codex); (2) amorphous strophanthin of Merck, weaker in action than the crystalline form; and (3) amorphous strophanthin of Boehringer, still less active physiologically. Great care must, there- fore, be taken in prescribing these drugs. See Fortescue-Brickdale, Newer Remedies, pp 117- 121, 1910. Strophanthone.—A preparation, de- scribed as an "aseptic, non alcohol, stable pre- paration of the active principles of genuine strophanthus seed"; it is standardised physio- logically, and it is stated that 20 c.c. of it represent 1 gramme of strophanthus; the dose is 8 minims hypodermically, and 15 minims (1 c.c.) by the mouth. Stump - Pregnancy.—'See Ectopic Pregnancy {Tubal). Styptol.—Cotarnine phthalate, a yellow crystalline powder, soluble in water; it has been recommended in doses of |- to 1^ grains, as a vaso-constrictor in various forms of uterine bleeding, and it is said not to possess the ecbolic action of ergot, and therefore to be capable of employment in pregnancy. See Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1910, p. 388. Subinfection.—The name given to the condition in which bacteria are taken into the system from the alimentary and respiratory tracts, and destroyed in the various tissues and organs without proliferating. See Adami, Pathology, i. p. 462, 1910. Submucous Resection (Nasal). —An operation on the nasal septum introduced in 1904 by Killian and Freer, for the correcting of deviations ; the operation may be done under a local anaesthetic {e.g. cocaine) or a general one; if the deviation of the septum bulge into the right nasal fossa, the incision is made on the right side on the convex side of the bulge from just above the vestibule down to the floor of the nose, passing through mucous membrane and perichondrium dow n to the cartilage; an elevator is then passed in, and the membrane is raised from the cartilage by its means ; the cartilage is next cut, or scratched through in the line of the original incision till the peri- chondrium on the opposite (concave) side of the bulge comes into view, when the elevator is again introduced and the cartilage raised from the perichondrium and mucous membi'ane on this (left) side also; the plate of cartilage is now cut out, and the two muco-perichondrial flaps apposed, and the original (single) incision closed with a few (horsehair) sutures; the diffi- cult part of the operation is the separation of the muco-perichondrium from the cartilage on the concave side of the bulge without making an opening into the fossa of that side. See H. Bell Tawse's description and review of 120 cases in Lancet, ii. for 1910, pp. 91-94 ; T. J. Fauldner, Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1910, p. 1305. Suction Cups.—See Bier's Method. Sudanophiies.—The name given to