AETERIO-SCI.EROSIS 48 lin is distributed throughout the body, yet its eifects are only apparent in the aorta, where the pressure is highest. Similar, though milder, changes are produced l)y barium, digitalis, and nicotine. If the action of adrenalin on Ijlood- pressure be annulled by the simultaneous ad- ministration of nitrites, the arterial change is less extensive, but does not differ in character. Iodides do not seem materially to modify the action of adrenalin on the vessels. Clinical Varieties of Arterio-Sclerosis. —More fruitful of practical results, perhaps, than investigations as to the ultimate nature of arterio-sclerosis has been the recognition of certain symptom - groups due to vascular changes. Stengel points out that while normal senile arterio-sclerosis is a general and uniform pro- cess, accompanied by gradual failure of the organic functions, pathological arterio-sclerosis, though beginning as a general disease, tends in the long run to affect one organ prematurely ; hence in its clinical manifestations cardiac, renal, or cerebral symptoms may predominate. It is in this stage that the condition is generally diagnosed for the first time, but its early detec- tion is as important as the early detection of pulmonary tuberculosis. Stengel divides the disease into three stages:—(1) A preliminary stage ; (2) a middle period, during which the arterial thickening is easy to recognise, and secondary organic changes are beginning to dis- cover themselves; (3) a final stage of failure of the circulation, of organic failure, and of terminal infection. During the first stage the symptoms are indefinite. The blood-pressure is not perman- ently high, though temporary rises may occur. The patients suffer from loss of vigour, from mild neurasthenia, from dryness of the skin or ex- ces.sive perspiration. The renal equilibrium is disturbed, and reduced excretion of urine alter- nates with polyuria. There is often digestive disturbance and loss of weight. Three main clinical types of case occur :—(1) A nutritional type, in which loss of vigour, emaciation, and pallor (" pseudo-ansemia") from vascular con- traction are the leading symptoms. (2) The neurasthenic type, in which the symptoms of nervous exhaustion are predominant {v. infra). (3) The nervous type, accompanied by neur- algia, migraine, tinnitus, vertigo, and muscular weakness. In the second stage the signs of arterio- sclerosis are well marked. The vessels are thickened, the blood-pressure is raised, the arterial second sound is accentuated, there is a marked tidal wave in the pulse-tracing, and the sphygmometer shows high pressure. During this period Stengel classifies cases according to which organ is most afiected—cardiac, aortic, renal, intestinal, pancreatic, arterio-capillary, cerebro-spinal. In cardiac cases the heart is irregular; there may be angina. In aortic cases there are signs of aortic degeneration and dilatation. In the renal type we find evidences of chronic interstitial nephritis; cylindroids occur in the urine long before casts can be detected. In the arterio-capillary type the vascular thickening overshadows the other features. Arterio-Sclerosis of the Splanchnic Vessels.—Stengel describes the features of intestinal arterio-sclerosis as atrophy of the mucous membi'ane, sudden attacks of painful obstruction, and chronic colitis. This symptom- complex has also been carefully studied by Buch, of Helsingfors, who gives its leading symptoms as follows:—In simple arteiio- sclerotic colic the patient is usually over forty, and suffers from frequently-recurring attacks of severe epigastric pain, the individual attacks being of short duration. The pain is evoked by exertion or emotion, and is associated with tenderness over the abdominal aorta. In a second group of cases the colic is complicated by the existence of granular contracted kidney, and in a further group by angina pectoris. The chief diagnostic features of the seizures are their suddenness and frequency (many during the twenty-four hours), their association with mental shock or physical strain ; and the absence of any digestive disorder to account for them. Arterio-sclerotic colic may occur as an early symptom of arterio-sclerosis ; usually, however, by the time it develops, general vascular thick- ening can be made out. Arterio-Sclerosis of the Nervous System. Cimljal proposes the following grouping of cases, based chiefly on the views of German clini- cians:—(1) Neurasthenia. (2) Cerebral destruc- tive form, the most definite type being pseudo- buUmr palsy. (3) The results of (1) and (2) —apoplexy, and late epilepsy. (4) Spinal arterio-sclerosis. (5) Angio-sclerotic neuritis. Of these five groups the first and last are the best defined. Arterio-Sclerotic Neurasthenia.—The symptoms on the whole resemble those of ordinary neurasthenia, but come on more sud- denly, without definite cause, and without any of the minor prodromal symptoms which usually herald an ordinary attack of neurasthenia. The patients are generally over middle life. Fore- most among the symptoms is chronic headache, which is exacerbated by exertion and by the use of alcohol. This aggi'avation of the symptoms by alcohol is somewhat characteristic of arterio- sclerotic neurasthenia. Other pronounced symptoms are a feeling of swaying and in- security in walking, disturbed sleep, and mental depression. Both physical and mental work rapidly cause a feeling of exhaustion. Cimbal lays stress on the following as aids to diagnosis:— The face tends to flush and pale by turns, and in the later stages is congested. There is no