214 IODOFORM SUBSTITUTES Iodoform Substitutes. — On ac- count of its unpleasant odour, its not being aseptic, and its tendencj' to set up dermatitis or symptoms of general poisoning, various sub- stitutes have been suggested to take the j^lace of iodoform, such as iodoformiu, iodoformol, aristol, iodol, iodofan, sanoform, loretin, isoform, sozo-iodol compounds, and nosophen. See Fortescue-Brickdale, Newer Remedies, pp. 9-17, 1910. Iodoformum Bituminatum.— An iodoform substitute in which tar is mixed with the iodoform in order to conceal its smell. lOdOg'enoL—A substitute for the alkaline iodides, in which the iodine is combined with peptone. lodOgrlidine. — A substitute for the alkaline iodides, in which the iodine (10 per cent.) is combined with vegetable albumin. See Report in Lancet (i. for 1909, p. 247). lodoma.isin.—A substitute for the alka- line iodides in which the iodine is combined with the protein (maisine) contained in gluten derived from maize: the dose is li to 2 grains daily in the conditions for which iodine is indicated. See Lancet (i. for 1906, p. 1191). lodOSerum. — A substitute for the alkaline iodides, said to be formed by the action of iodine on blood-serum and to be fitted for intravenous or subcutaneous injection. See Fortescue-Brickdale, Neirer Remedies, p. 19, 1910. lodotannol.—An iodoform substitute, said to be a mixture of iodine with tannin. IOdura.se. — A proprietary preparation in which iodides are associated with a special form of yeast (levurine) in order to guard against iodism. lodyloform.—An iodoform substitute, described as a yellowish-brown, odourless powder, with antiseptic properties ; it is com- posed of iodine and gelatin. lola Food.—A proprietary food prepara- tion, being a palatable jelly free from acid, starch, and fat. See Lancet (i. for 1908, p. 947). Ionic Medication in Gynecol- Og^y.—There are certain gynecological diseases of an obstinate natui'e, such as chronic cervicitis, chronic endometritis, and membranous dys- raenorrhoea, for the relief of which the medical man is poorly supplied. He is recommended by the current text-books to try the effect of douches, of plugs, of caustics, and of curettage ; but he often finds little permanent benefit to accrue from such means, even if used for con- siderable periods of time. Dr. Samuel Sloan suggests that he try the employment of ionic medication, and encourages him by a record of cases in which this new therapeutic agent has been most beneficial. To quote from Dr. Sloan's article {Proc. Roy. Soc. Med., June 1908), "Ionic medication is the application of electro-chemistry to thera- peutics. To students of recent advances in l^hysical chemistry, chemical affinity comes simply to mean electric attraction and electric repulsion of the atoms or molecules in solution. These atoms or molecules have each a charge of electricity, some of them being positive and some negative. Being electrically charged and capable of moving in virtue of this charge, they are called ions or movers. Let an electric current be passed through such a solution, and at once, from a restless state of activity, the ions proceed to arrange themselves so that the — ions may move towards the + pole and the + ions towards the - pole; like charges re- pelling and unlike attracting. The ions moving towards the -I-pole are called anions, that is anode-goers ; those towards the - pole kathions, that is kathode-goers. Hydrogen and all metals are kathions; iodine, chlorine, etc., are anions. In the case of compounds the bases are kathions and the acids are anions. Thus, in the case of a solution of sulphate of copper, the sulphuric acid, being an anion, will drift towards the + pole ; whilst the copper will move towards the - pole. Any solution capable of conducting a current of electricity through it is called an electrolyte; and the passage of the current brings about decomposi- tion of the electrolyte. The motions of the ions constitute the current, each atom carrying with it an equal quantity of electricity. The human body is an electrolyte in virtue of the salines of its tissues. The principal saline being NaCl, the body acts electrically as a solution of chloride of sodium." These ionic movements can, therefoie, be produced in the human body, and their production can be regulated and employed for therapeutic purposes. "When the changes are at the poles only, electrolysis results ; and electrolysis, as is well knoM'n, has proved of some service in the treatment of fibroid tumours of the uterus : the nascent oxygen and acids of the tissue electrolyte which are set free at the 4-pole have a caustic or an antiseptic effect, whilst at the —pole (when it is made the active one) the sodium hydroxide which is liberated has a softening and solvent effect on the tissues. In the case of fibroid tumoui-s the -I- pole is usually made the active and intra-uterine one. Dr. Sloan, however, does not recommend simple electrolysis, but what is called ionic migration.