116 DIET -—exogenous uric acid; (2) from the disintegra- tion of the nuclear tissues of the body, and from the metabolism of muscles (Burian)— endogenous uric acid. The amount of endogen- ous uric acid excreted may be estimated l)y placing the subject on a diet approximately free from purins. It is then found to vary considerably in different persons, but to remain at a fairly constant level in each individual ; the average amount is from -3 to '6 gram. In some persons the metabolism of purin bodies appears to l)e abnormal. Cases are recorded in which on a purin-free diet the output of uric acid was much higher than the above, and others in which, after the consumption of articles rich in purin, enormous quantities of uric acid were excreted for a considerable period. Ob- servations of this kind render the existence of " a uric acid diathesis " at least probable. Purins are contained in many articles of ordinary food, especially those which are rich in nuclei. All forms of fish and flesh, jDarticu- larly sweetbread, liver, and the like, contain purins ; the pulses, oatmeal, and asparagus yield a considerable amount; tea, coffee, and malt liquors contain smaller quantities. White bread, rice, eggs, vegetables other than the above, nuts, dates, macaroni, raisins, milk, cream, butter, fruits, fat, and honey are practically free from purin. Guanin and adenin, the purin bodies derived from sweetbread (pan- creas and thymus), are absorbed from the bowel with difficulty, and can be recovered from the faeces. It is therefore doubtful whether these should be classed as purin- containing foods from this point of view. The whole question of the value of a purin free diet is unsettled. Luff believes that its benefit is due to its low proteid content. The metabolism of the purin bodies is discussed in Von,Noor- deu's Metabolism and Practical Medicine, vol. i., London, 1907. Dig^alen.—A solution of Dr. Cloetta's amorphous digitoxin (prepared from digitalis). See Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1909, p. 1243; Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc., vol. liii. p. 869, 1909. Dig^estion.—Movements of the Ali- mentary Tract. — The movements of the stomach and intestine during digestion have been studied by Cannon in unansesthetised animals by means of X-rays. To the food (bread and milk) given sufficient subnitrate of bismuth is added to render it opaque to the rays. The stomach is diA^ided functionally (v. infra) into two portions—the fundus, and the pyloric part or antrum. In the living animal this division is marked by the trans- verse band of the stomach—a contraction of the circular fibres—which separates the large sack-like fundus from the small pyloric antrum. When food enters the stomach it first accumu- lates in the fundus, being cut off from the pylorus by constriction of the transverse band, and during the whole process of digestion the fundus remains steadily contracted on its con- tents. In about twenty minutes or half an hour rhythmical contractions set in, beginning on the cardiac side of the circular fibres, and these pass towards the pylorus, into which they drive part of the food from the fundus. The pyloric sphincter remains firmly closed, and the food which is driven along the pyloric antrum is squeezed back in an axial stream towards the fundus again. It is thus thoroughly mixed in this pyloric mill, and everj^ part of it is brought into intimate contact with the mucous membrane. At intervals during diges- tion the pyloric sphincter relaxes, and allows a little of the now fluid gastric contents to escape into the duodenum. As the stomach gradually discharges its contents it little by little assumes the shape of a curved tube. Cannon shows that two factors are concerned in the mechanism of the emptying of the stomach — pressure on the food at the pylorus by the recurrent gastric waves, and the action of the pyloric sphincter. The pylorus is tonically closed when food is- ingested, and remains closed against recurrent pressure. The appearance of acid at the pylorus causes the sphincter to relax. The pressing peristaltic waves now force some of the acid chyme into the duodenum. The acid in the duodenum at once tightens the sphincter against further exit. This is what is known as- the " acid control" of the pylorus. Carbohy- drates stimulate secretion, but do not combine with acid, hence they escape quickly. Proteids- fix acid and delay the development of an acid reaction. Fats make a slow continuous exit from the stomach. Cannon has recently {Amer. Journ. Phys., Nov. 1908) discussed "acid con- trol " of the cardiac sphincter. He concludes' that it is kept closed by the pi-esence of acid in the stomach. Neutralisation of acid leads- to regurgitation, which continues until the normal acidity of the stomach is regained'. hdestine.—During digestion the food in the- small intestine forms a continuous column. Contractions of the wall of the gut appear, the effect of which is to divide the column intO' a series of segments. At intervals of a few seconds each of these segments is divided into- two halves by a fresh constriction, and the adjacent halves of the old segments fuse. There is thus a constant successive formation of new segments, and undoing the old ones, the effect being to bring every particle of chyme into close relation with the intestinal wall. This process of segmentation does not drive the food onwards; that takes place by true peristalsis—i.e. a co-ordinate proximal contraction and distal relaxation of the walls of the bowel. The food gradually escapes into-