CEREBELLUM, SYMPTOMATOLOGY OF TUMOURS OF 95 correct the latter by rotating the body so that the homolateral shoulder is in advance of the other. On days when the gait is improved they may over-correct this tendency to homo- lateral deviation, or deviate to the opposite side. Reflexes. — The knee-jerks vary much. In intra-cerebellar tumour they are usually diminished on the side of the lesion; in extra- cerebellar tumour, the reverse. Diagnosis between Cerebellak and Extra-Cerebellar Tumours.—In cerebellar tumour the cardinal symptoms — headache, vomiting, and optic neuritis — appear early ; in extra-cerel)ellar tumours, late. In intra- cerebellar tumours there is less implication of the 6th, 7th, and 8th cranial nerves than in extra-cei'ebellar tvimours. The characters of the vertigo {v. supra) are also of assistance. In cerebellar tumour homolateral paresis is more marked than in extra-cerebellar tumour. Tremor is present in many cases of extra-cerebellar tumour, absent in cerebellar tumour. Crossed hemiplegia is highly suggestive of extra-cere- bellar tumour compressing the pons. An extensor plantar response absolutely excludes uncomplicated cerebellar disease. (T. Grainger Stewart and Gordon Holmes, Brain, xxvii. pp. 522-591.) CerebrOSideS. — Nitrogen - containing, phosphorus-free bodies, resembling glucosides, found in brain protagon, e.g. phrenosin, kerasin, etc. Cerebro - SpinaB Meningitis, Epidemic.—After having been unknown in this country for many years, cerebro-spinal fever revisited it in 1906, and during the Avinter of 1906-1907 the disease occurred in an epidemic form. Belfast, Glasgow, and Edinburgh suffered most, though scai'cely any considerable area throughout the country was quite exempt. With the summer of 1907 the virulence of the epidemic declined, though the disease still lingered on in 1908, cases occurring especially during the colder months. The recrudescence of cerebro-spinal fever has only been a part of a rather general prevalence of the disease throughout the western world. In 1904 it appeared in epidemic form in New York and various other parts of the United States, and about the same time epidemics were reported from Germany, chiefly from Silesia and Galicia; thence it has spread in various directions over the continent of Europe, and has naturally engaged the attention of many bacteriologists, clinicians, and sanitarians. To the description of the clinical features of the disease as described in the Enci/clopcedia and Didimary, vi. p. 324 there is little or nothing to add. The type of the disease varies in no respect from the classical picture. Diagnosis has been rendered more sure by the intro- duction of lumbar puncture and the universal recognition of the specific organism, which in most instances can be easily and certainly detected in the cereln'o-spinal fluid. The chief new facts which have been bi'ought to light concei'uing epidemic meningitis since the present epidemic set in may be discussed under the heads of—(a) bacteriology; (i) mode of infection; (c) relation of epidemic to pos- terior basic meningitis ; and ('/) treatment. In the last of these, happily, marked advance has been made. 1. Bacteriology.—An immense amount of literatui-e has appeared on the bacteiiology of the disease, and it is not proposed to enter upon technical details as to the morphology and cultural chai'acters of the oi'ganism here. For these, original papers and special text- books must be referred to. Only some of the main points will be noticed. All observers have confirmed the specificity of the diplococcus intracellular is meningitidis of Weichselbaum. The oi'ganism can almost always be detected with comparative ease in the fluid withdrawn hy lumbal' punctui'e, and has also been detected in the lilood, although its isolation from the blood is difficult, and not always successful. It stains readily with ordinary dyes—for clini- cal purposes Leishman's or Jenner's stain is convenient — and is found inside as well as outside the polynuclear leucocytes. It is usually present in the cerebro-spinal fluid from the onset of the disease, but as time goes on it disappears therefrom. It may be found as late as the fortieth day. Oi'ganisms are usually scanty in the very acute (fulminant) cases, and in very mild infections ; they are, on the whole, most al)undant in the moderately severe type. Though the cultural and staining I'eactions of the meningococcus have l^een carefully studied, there is not entire agreement on some details. Here it is enough to say that one of the leading mattei's in dispute is their reaction to Gram's stain. Meningococci are, as is generally known. Gram-negative organisms, but some Imcterio- logists deny that this is an absolutely im-ariable character. Stuart M'Donald has described strains of meningococci which. Gram-negative ill smears of cerel^ro-spiiial fluid, became Gram- positive in cultures. Ritchie and others who hold strongly that the true meningococcus is always Gram-negative, believe that supposed variations are to be ascribed either to con- taminations of the cultures with extraneous organisms (Gram-positive diplococci) or to dift'erences in the technique of staining liy Gram's method. The supporters of the Yuri- ability of the organism hold that such an explanation is untenable, and here, at present, the matter rests. In most cases the menin- gococcus, and the meningococcus alone, is found on lumliar puncture and on post-mortem