LEUKEMIA 242 nently; in many cases, nevertheless, splenic and glandular enlargements subside, the blood becomes practically normal, and the patient enjoys a period of respite from symptoms which may be of very considerable duration. The following tables, compiled by Pancoast,^" give the results of 123 cases treated between 1901 and 1906 :— Spleno- Lym- Unclassi- medullary. phatic. fied. Symptomatic cure . 66 11 Q O Improved o o 1 improved; still under treatment 14 1 0 Unimproved 13 0 3 Unknown 1 0 2 be final results in 63 cases are:— Still living and well. 0 2 0 Symptomatic cure. fatal relapse . 11 5 0 Symptomatic cure. serious relapse 5 0 0 Improvement, fatal relapse . 14 3 1 Unimproved, died . 5 8 3 Relapsed and under treatment 4 0 0 The duration of symptomatic cure varies. Though it often lasts but a few months, four patients, at least, are reported as alive and well three, four, and six years after treatment. Myelocytic leukajmia appears to respond more readily than the lymphocytic type, and patients suffering from the acute form of the disease are more likely to derive harm than good from the treatment. Technique.—A hard tube should be used, as being more penetrating in its effect, and less likely than a soft tube to cause dermatitis. The sittings should be brief, from three to ten minutes thrice a week or oftener. Exposures should be made over the spleen, enlaig'ed glands, and bones, particularly the ribs and sternum. Neighbouring parts may be protected l)y lead shields. Effect of the Rays on the Hcemopoietic Organs and Blood.—As a rule the spleen becomes softer and diminishes in size after a few exposures. In many cases it speedily returns to normal dimensions; in a few instances, however, even repeated applications have produced no effect. Enlarged glands become smaller, though the change in them is less marked than in the spleen. Tenderness of the bones disappears. The general effect on the blood is to produce a steady diminution in the leucocytes. There is, it is true, a tempoi'ary rise of short duration, due, in all probability, to the profound changes in the lymphoid tissues causing a flooding of the blood with white cells; but this is followed by a speedy fall, which may amount to nearly 200,000 per c.mm. after a single exposure. Generally, however, the diminution is more gradual—perhaps 20 or 30 exposures spread over 5 or 6 weeks being required to bring the leucocytes down to an approximately normal number. The leucocytes, moreover, are altered qualitatively as well as quantitatively, the abnormal elements practically disappearing. Arneth and others have worked out the changes which occur. The lymphocytes, par- ticularly the larger forms, steadily diminish; the neutrophile myelocytes dwindle and may vanish altogether, while the polynuclears cor- respondingly increase. Mast-cells fall, while the eosinophile group becomes normal. There is, at the same time, a rise in the red corpuscles, and a disappearance of abnormal forms. Broadly, then, the effect of the rays is to produce an aleukasmic phase. Myelocytes are more suscep- tible than lymphocytes, and in lymphocythsemia, though the count may become normal, the percentage of lymphocytes usually remains high. With the symptomatic cure the general health improves correspondingly; relapse, sooner or later, inevitably occurs, and the treatment must be repeated with, on the whole, less pros- pect of success than before. Satisfactory on the whole, considering the nature of the malady, as Rcintgen rays are, the treatment is not devoid of risk. The rapid destruction of large numbers of leucocytes must be associated with the libera- tion of products of their disintegration, and it is not surprising that some cases of fatal toxaemia have been reported. Sudden death has occurred from this cause in not a few instances, and in some of these nejjhritis has been found. Treatment, therefore, should not be instituted unless the kidneys are sound, nor if there is any evidence of toxaemia. A mode- rate degree of pyrexia does not contra-indicate raying, but if the temperature is inclined to rise after exposure, it is probably safer to desist. The patient should be kept in bed during the early days of the course of treat- ment, until it is certain that the rays are doing no harm. At first the exposure should not exceed 3 minutes, and it should not be repeated for 3 or 4 days, until it is seen whether any reaction is going to occur. The action of the rays continues after the rays themselves have been stopped; it may sometimes be observed that glands which have begun to soften pro- gressively diminish in size for several weeks later. The immediate effect of the rays on enlarged glands is sometimes to jaroduce a temporary swelling and hardness, accompanied by a feeling of local discomfort or even pain. These symptoms, however, are of short dura- tion. Cases of acute leukaemia should not be treated with X-rays. Among minor incon-