SYPHILIS 364 molecules) for parasites, while having compara- tively little affinity for the tissues and cells of the host. In this way " 606 " was arrived at; it is the most potent known spirillicide. Ehrlich also showed that in experimental animal injections with trypanosomes and spirilla the best way of curing the animal is to give at one dose enough of the drug to destroy all the parasites ; this is possible only in virtue of the drug possessing an affinity for the trypanosome greatly in excess of its affinity to the tissues and cells of the host. This act of sterilisation at a single blow is designated by Ehrlich "Therapia Sterilisans Magna." The superiority of " 606 " over other drugs of the same series as regards their toxicity to the host is shown in the following table :— Dose tolerated per Curative dose per kilo, of body weight, kilo, of body weight. Atoxyl . . -06 -03 Arsacetin . . •! -03 Arseno-phenyl-glycin'4 '12 Dioxy-diamido- arseno-benzol •2 -0035 The chemical formula of the new drug is— / As = As \ I Jnr} 'nh., \ OH OH / At the time of writing, the drug is not procui'able commercially, though we are pro- mised that it will soon he so. Dose and mode of administration.—The dose is from "2 to "8 gram, the average for an adult being '6 gram. It may be given either intravenously or intra- muscularly. In the former case there is no local reaction, but there is a general febrile reaction of short duration. When given sub- cutaneously or intramuscularly some local tenderness may follow. After intravenous injection the drug is excreted rapidly, no arsenic being discoverable in the urine after four days. With intramuscular injection ex- cretion takes place more slowly—five days in recent syphilis, ten days in general paralysis. In experimental work on animals it is found that the effect is more prolonged after intra- muscular than after intravenous injection, the reason being that when the drug is injected into a muscle a depot forms, from which gradual absorption takes place. One injection, or sometimes two, seem all that is required. Technique.—The patient should be kept in bed for two or three days, and afterwards confined to his room for a week. Dioxy-diamido-arseno-benzol is a yellowish powder contained in ampoules in which a vacuum exists. The injection is prepared before use, and as it cannot be sterilised after it is made up, rigorous asepsis is required in its manipulation. Instruments must be steri- lised in the flame and solutions by boiling. 1. Herxheimer's Process.—The dose ('5 gram) is carefully triturated in a mortar with '3 c.c. of 20 per cent, caustic soda; while continuing the trituration 10 c.c. water is added in small quantities, and the injection is given immedi- ately so as to prevent separation and pre- cipitation. 2. Blaschko's Process.—To "36 c.c. of a 20 per cent, solution of caustic soda is added -5 gram of "606." The powder undergoes pro- longed trituration, and there is then added from 4 to 6 c.c. of hot boiled water. 3. Michaelis Process,—For a dose of '5 gram of the drug from 1 to 2 c.c. of ethylic alcohol is poured over the powder in a test-tube. Twenty cubic centimetres of hot distilled water are gradually added with constant stirring. When solution occurs, 1 c.c. of normal caustic soda solution (40 per 1000) per decigram of prepared powder is added. To the liquid is added from 2 to 3 drops of 1 : 200 phenoph- thalein. The colour becomes red. A drop or two of normal acetic acid is added until the preparation takes the colour of yellow sulphur. Then add 2 or 3 drops of the alkaline solution to neutralise the excess of acid, stopping the operation when the upper part of the liquid shows a pink halo. A sterilised syringe of 10 c.c. capacity is used, armed with a platinum needle of large calibre about 2 ins. long. The site of in- jection is disinfected by painting with tincture of iodine. Intramuscular injections are usually given into the glutei ; subcutaneous in the interscapulai^ or inframamraary I'cgions. Effect on the Lesions.—Improvement may occur within a few hours. Primary sores begin to regress within a few days, rashes fade, ulcers heal, mucous patches disappear. Large tertiary ulcers may be completely cicatrised in a few weeks. Good results have been obtained in syphilis of the nervous system, but so far the evidence of a beneficial action in parasyphilitic cases is slight. Herxheimer's reaction — a transient exacerbation of the eruption — is sometimes observed when the dose has been small and the roseola profuse. Effect OIL the Spirochfi'tes, and on Wasser- manns Reaction.—There seems to be no doubt that the improvement of the lesions is associ- ated with a disappearance of the spirochajtes. Iversen failed to detect those in the juice of the lymphatic glands a few days after injection. The Wassermann reaction is also lost; some- times as early as the fourth day, sometimes not vintil several weeks have elapsed. It is not, of course, possible to say that disappear- ance is invariable. In some cases there is an initial intensification of the reaction. The