BLOOD 67 blood examinations, but is the best for protozoa —e.g. malarial parasites and trypanosomes. For cyto-diagnosis of serous fluids Jenner's stain is perhaps the best. The triacid mixture is useless, as it does not stain bacteria. Wright's Stain, a modification of Leishman's, is strongly recommended by Gulland for the azurophil granulations of lymphocytes, as follows :—Drop a smear before it is dry into a weak solution of the stain in methyl alcohol ; leave it to stain for any time up to half an hour, dry, and mount in balsam. Examination of Stained Films.—For accurate work a ~ in. oil-immersion lens and a me- chanical stage are almost necessities. With practice it is possible to differentiate cells with a lower (|- in.) power, but their appearances must first have been learned with the aid of the immersion lens. Systematic diff"erential counts can scarcely be made without a me- chanical stage, and the examination of succes- sive fields by moving the slide with the fingers is a very laborious pi'ocess. Differential Counting.—This consists in enumerating the varieties of leucocytes seen in successive fields until 500 have been counted. The numbers of thedift'ei-ent cells are jotted down ■on a piece of paper as they are counted. It is customary to diff'erentiate small lymphocytes, large lymphocytes and mononuclears, polynu- ■clears, eosinophiles, mast cells, and myelocytes, and at the same time to note any abnormal red cells seen, as normoblasts, megaloblasts, frag- mentation of nuclei, basophilia, mitoses, etc. In ■diff"erential counting the chief diflficulty arises in connection with the " large lymphocyte," for, ■on the one hand, we have to draw a distinction between a typical large lymphocyte with strongly basophile protoplasm and a small lymphocyte, ■and, on the other, between a large lymphocyte -and a large mononuclear with a pale cytoplasm and darker nucleus. The distinction is often ■dependent on the personal equation of the ob- server, and some prefer to class as "lympho- cytes " both the small and large forms with basophile cytoplasm, and as "large mono- nuclear and transitional cells," those with pale ■cytoplasm and darker rounded or irregular nuclei. Differential counts may be stated as percent- ages, or converted into absolute numbers of cells per cubic millimetre. The latter is better, as by it we can distinguish between relative and absolute variations in the diff'erent cells. The following table shows in round numbers the percentages and totals of the leucocytes in the normal adult, taking the local leucocytes as 8000 per c.mm. :— Per Cent. Total. ■ Small lymphocytes . . . 20-30 1600-2400 Large do. (incl. " transitionals") 4-8 320-640 Polynuclears .... 60-75 4800-6000 Eosinophiles -5-5 40-400 Basophiles -5 40 The advantage of stating the absolute numbei-s of cells is obvious fi'om such an example as the following:— Total Leuco- Total Leuco- Per- cyte Count. cyte Count. centage. A = 4000 B = 20,000 p. c.mm. p. c.mm. Small lymphocytes 70 2800 14,400 Large do. 5 200 1,000 Polynuclears. 24 960 4,800 Eosinophiles . "5 20 100 Basophiles •5 20 100 From the percentage alone we can only infer that there is a relative lymphocytosis. Stated as totals, however, it is obvious that in case A the lymphocytes are normal and the poly- nuclears diminished (inactivity of the bone marrow) while in B the polynuclears ai'e normal and the lymphocytes increased (excessive activity of the lymphoid tissues, possibly leukaimia). Special Examination of the Poli/nuclear Neutro- philes.—Arneth has studied the neutrophile cells from a fresh standpoint. He ai'ranges them severally in groups accoi'ding to the shape of the nucleus — I. mononuclear, II. bilobed nuclei, III. ti'ilobed nuclei, and so on. He adopts Pappenheim's view that increasing poly- morphism of the nucleus is a sign of progres- sive ripening of the cell, and on this assumption it is natural to suppose that in health some fairly constant ratio must exist between the numbers of the different stages present. Arneth states that the normal percentage is as follows : —I. 5 per cent., II. 35 per cent.. III. 31 per cent., IV. 17 per cent., V. and over, 2 per cent. In disease, especially infectious disease, the neutrophile picture is altered, so that a larger number of the cells appear in gi'oups I. and II., and Arneth and some of his followers ascribe considerable diagnostic and prognostic import- ance to this " pushing the neutrophile pictui-e to the left." It must be said, however, that not all observers accept Arneth's figures as normal averages; some think that the number of young forms in health is higher than his estimate. Pathological Appearances. See Encydop. and Did., i. pp. 413, 415. Leucocytes.—1. Mast Cells.—The basophile cell which is normally found in small numbers in the blood has a convoluted nucleus and fine granulation. Mast cells differ from these in possessing round, faintly-staining nuclei, and coarse granules. They vary much in size (8 to 20 yu.); they occur in leukaemia, in the splenic anajmia of infancy, and occasionally in severe aiiEemia from other causes. The general meaning of basophilia is unknown. 2. Neutrophile Pseudo-Myelocyte (Ehrlich).—■ This resembles a myelocyte, but is much smaller. It is not uncommon in infantile ansemia, and is probably a dwarfed form. 3. " Ileizungs-form" {Tiirck).—This is a cell somewhat larger than a small lymphocyte, with.