46 ARTERIES, SUTURE OF Smith {La Fresse MSdicale, April 24, 1909), among them being Gliick's method, the essential feature of which is the protection of the line of A. 75 Fig. 2.- -Uorrance method. A, iii:ittress .suture, witli third .stitche.s dropped back (1, 1). U, continuous suture over mattress suture. sutures by a ring or cuff of arterial wall resected from another method, and Payr's method, in which an absorbable magnesium collar or plate is employed, through which the divided end of the vessel is passed and its edges then everted. With this plate as a support the whole is inserted into the other divided end (Fig. 3). Carrel brings the divided ends together by three equidistant tension stitches, and then unites the cut sur- faces by a continuous suture (Fig. 4). Smith himself advises a quill suture for longitudinal wounds, using chromic acid gut as a support. Sweet {Annah of Surgery, xlvi. 350, 1907) recom- FiG. 3.—Payr's method, showing magnesium collar (black) with everted lower end of vessel (white) inserted into upper end of vessel (shaded). 1, 2, ligatiu-es. (After Smith.) Fia. 4.—Carrel's method. 1, 2, 3, tension stitches. (After Smith.) mends a method practically the same as Carrel's. When the vessel is extensively injured, or where apportion requires to be resected, may it be possible to replace it by a graft % So far this has not been accomplished in the human sul:)ject. but Carrel's experiments on animals on peritoneal grafting, and patching with a piece of arterial wall from another vessel, may prelude success along these lines. Along with Guthrie {Amer. Journ. of the Med. ScL, Sept. 1906) he has demonstrated by experiments on dogs that by inter- posing a segment of vein between the two cut ends of an artery it is possible to re- store the arterial cir- culation. The inter- posed segment quickly undergoes anatomical changes, and from microscopic and macroscopic standpoints has a strong tendency to assume the character of an artery. A dog in which the operation of venous transplantation after divi- sion of the carotid artery was performed was in good health eight months later, while the venous segment presented to the touch the character- istics of the carotid artery. (See also Sweet, "The Surgery of the Blood-Vessels," Inter- national Clinics, vol. iii. seventeenth series, Philadelphia, 1907, a general review, with literature; and Levin, Annals of Surgery, xlix. p. 320, 1909). Arterio-venous Anastomosis has been performed in a small number of cases as a means of healing actual or impending senile or arterio-sclerotic gangrene of the foot (Miiller, Annals of Surgery, li. p. 246, 1910). In the cases operated on by Ballance and by Wieting a good result followed. The method adopted is to make an anastomosis in Scarpa's triangle between the femoral artery and vein, so as to deflect the arterial blood into the vein. The presence of the valves in the vein is not an insuperable obstacle, as they are forced in a few hours, allowing a reversal of the circulation (Carrel). Miiller concludes (1) that in the early stages of arterial disease producing ulcers on the toes, pain, etc., revei'sal of the circulation may do good, and should be tried if other means fail. (2) Where gangrene is present a line of demarca- tion should be awaited. If the process involves several toes, or tends to spread to the dorsum of the foot, an anastomosis between the femoral artery and vein, with ligation of the external saphenous, will almost certainly induce a line of demarcation in the region of the ankle. (3) If the superficial and deep veins are also throm- bosed the operation is contra-indicated. Records of 26 cases of arterio-venous anasto- mosis will be found in a paper by Monod and Vanverts {Archives Generales de Vhirurgie, May 1910). Mauclaire is of opinion that there is at present only a limited field for the operation.