SYMPHYSIOTOMY 359 AND PUBIOTOMY of labour and to operate after several hours of second-stage pains have demonstrated that the head cannot pass through the superior strait. Pubiotomy can be safely performed under such circumstances, while in Csesarean section the prognosis becomes progressively worse the later in labour it is performed. If the future substantiates these views, pubiotomy will still further narrow the field for the induction of premature labour, and practically do away with the use of high forceps, version, or craniotomy in moderate degrees of contracted pelvis when the mother is in good condition. It is also indicated in certain cases in funnel- shaped pelvis, and possibly in face presentations when the chin has rotated into the hollow of the sacrum. ... I do not believe that the operation should be undertaken when signs of infection are present, as the interests of the mother will be better served by craniotomy, or Csesarean section followed by removal of the uterus. For the present, at least, I feel that the employment of pubiotomy should be limited to well-equipped hospitals or the prac- tice of experts, since four well-trained assist- ants are necessary to its proper performance, and, moreover, serious complications may occur at any time, which will seriously tax the resources of even a competent surgeon." Williams's estimate may be taken as a fair one in respect, at any rate, to British and American opinion ; and one cannot help think- ing that little will be heard of pubiotomy in five years' time. Csesarean section meets the requirements of high degrees of pelvic con- traction, and the last word has not yet been spoken in favour of the induction of premature labour in the moderate degrees. Syncytiolysins. — See Eclampsia (T'heories). Syncytioma Maligrnum.—<S'ee Uterus, Malignant Tumours. Syncytiotoxines. — See Eclampsia {Theories). Synkaryon.—See Protozoa {Zygosis). Syphilis. Etiology 359 Spirochcete Pallida . . . .359 Diagnosis 360 Relation to Nervous Diseases . .361 Treatment 362 Intramuscular Injections . . .362 « 606 " 363 Etiology.—On 17th May 1905 Schaudinn and Hoffmann communicated to the Medical Society of Berlin their discovery of a spirochsete {spiro- chmte pallida) in syphilitic lesions, and thus solved the problem of the etiology of syphilis. In the early part of the same year Siegel had described a protozoon-like organism as the cause of the disease {cytorrhyctes lids); and although the correctness of his observations was soon disproved, it was their publication which induced Schaudinn, a protozoologist of established reputation, to study the subject. It is also a matter of historic interest that, although the whole credit of the discovery rests with Schaudinn, it was by the merest accident that he was not anticipated by Bordet and Gengou. Two years before Schaudinn described his spirocheete, they had found a spirillum (in all probability the spirochajte pallida) in smears from a hard chancre, but did not appreciate the significance of their discovery; and Metchnikoff, failing either to verify their observation, or to find such spirilla in the experimental syphilis in apes at which he was then working, declared against syphilis being a spirillosis. Very shortly after Schaudinn's account of his work, Metchnikoff reported that he had found in his infected monkeys a spirochsete resembling (and soon identified by Schaudinn as identical with) the new organism. Thus within a few days two important facts were made public, and very quickly a further link in the chain of evidence was furnished bj^ Buschke and Fischer, who demonstrated the spirochfete in the oi'gans of a congenital syphi- litic infant, and by Levaditi, who detected it in the bullae of congenital syphilitic pemphigus. In the former site, at least, a saprophytic para- site was unlikely to occur. Since that time observations all over the world have led to the same results. The spirochsete pallida is found in the primary sore, in the enlarged glands, in the secondary lesions, in the blood stream— and it has never been found except in syphilis. It has been found in the saliva, in the urine, in the ovaries, but not in the cerebro-spinal fluid, nor, curiously, in the semen. It has even been detected in the tertiary lesions, but not in the parasyphilitic group of diseases, such as tabo- paralysis. It is abundant in all the organs of syphilitic foetuses ; in the umbilical cord ; in the placenta. Schaudinn has differentiated the varieties of spirochsete which occur in healthy and diseased genital organs. He has shown that there are two—the spirochete refringens, a normal sapro- phyte, and spirochete pallida, in syphilis only. Sjnroclicete Pallida.— A very delicate spiral organism, averaging 6 to 16 /a long; smaller and larger individuals are also met with. It consists of from 6 to 26 delicate spiral undula- tions, each measuring from "8 to 1"6 fj.. The diameter is about '25 jj.. The organism retains its spiral form when at rest. An undulatory membrane has not been demonstrated, and the