198 IMMUNITY 2. Senmi Diagnosis of Syphilis.—The sero- diagnosis of syphilis which is associated with the name of Wassermaun is based on the principle of complement fixation. The method is too complicated to be carried out except in a laboratory; it is said by those who have practised it to be as reliable in the diagnosis of previous or active syphilis as is the Widal test in typhoid fever. The test depends on the fact that when syphilitic virus is mixed with the serum of a syphilitic patient the anti- bodies in the latter unite with the virus and with complement. The complement is thus fixed, and is not available for uniting with any other antibodies. If, on the other hand, a non- syphilitic serum (containing, therefore, no anti- bodies) is mixed with syphilitic virus there is no fixation of complement, which is consequently free to combine with any other antibodies. The diagnosis of a syphilitic serum, therefore, depends on the recognition of the complement, and the presence or absence of free complement is determined by adding to the mixture of virus, complement, and suspected serum, inactivated hasmolytic serum and red blood corpuscles. If free complement is present lysis will occur; if the complement has been fixed there will be no lysis. To carry out the test the following are required—(1) Antigens, obtained by extract- ing the livei' of an hereditary syphilitic foetus with salt solution. (2) Antibodies as contained in the suspected serum—blood serum, cerebro- spinal fluid, etc. (3) Complement — fresh guinea-pig's serum 1 :10. (4) Ha;molytic serum, from a rabbit highly immunised against sheep's corpuscles, inactivated by heating. (5) Washed sheep's corpuscles. In carrying out the test a complete system of controls is required. Citron employs ten, and gives the following scheme for their employment:— Result Expected sis 1. '2 c.c. syphilitic antigen -t- -2 syphilitic serum -i- '1 complement 2. '2 c.c. syphilitic antigen +'1 syphilitic serum-f-'l complement 3. '2 syphilitic serum+1 com- plement 4. '2 c.c. syphilitic antigen 1- "1 com- plement 5. '2 c.c. syphilitic antigen-1-'2 normal serum -I-1 complement 6. '2 nornjal serum-1-1 complement 7. "2 c.c. extr. normal liver + '2 syphilitic serum -I-1 complement 8. "2 c.c. extr. normal liver-I-'2 normal serum +1 complement 9. '2 c.c. extr. normal liver \-1 com- plement 10. 1 complement -f 2 lysing doses hsemoly tic serum +1 c.c. 5 per cent. sheep's blood -t- 2 lysing doses haemolytic serum -t-1 c.c. 5 per cent. sheep's blood -I- 2 lysing doses haemolytic serum 4-1 c.c. 5 per cent. sheep's blood -t- 2 lysing doses hemolytic serum +1 c.c. 5 per cent. sheep's blood -f- 2 lysing doses hasmolytic serum -1-1 c.c. 5 per cent. sheep's blood + 2 lysing doses hemolytic serum +1 c.c. 6 per cent. sheep's blood -f 2 lysing doses haemolytic serum -f 1 c.c. 5 per cent. sheep's blood -f- 2 lysing doses hsemolytic serum -t-1 c.c. 5 per cent. sheep's blood + 2 lysing doses hsemolytic serum -f-1 c.c. 5 per cent. sheep's blood -t-2 lysing doses hsemolytic serum 4-1 c.c. 5 per cent. sheep's blood no hsemoly partial ,, complete In the tubes 3, 4, 6, 9, and 10 the absent substance is replaced by 1 c.c. '85 saline solution Results estimated thus. Tubes 1 =no hsemolysis and 2 no haemolysis = syphilis 4- + + + 1 = no haemolysis and 2 partial haemolysis = syphilis -f 4- l = no haemolysis and 2 haemolysis = syphilis 4- -1- 1 = partial haemolysis .and 2 haemolysis = syphilis-f 1 = almost complete hemolysis and 2 haemolysis = syphilis (?) 1 = complete haemolysis and 2 haemolysis =no syphilis Value of Wassermann's Reaction. — Non- syphilitic persons never give a positive reaction ; a large proportion of syphilitic persons give it. A positive reaction, therefore, is proof of syphilis; a negative one renders it unlikely, but does not disprove it. Syphilitic patients may give a negative reaction (1) during the primary stage of the disease ; (2) during the second stage, in rare cases only ; and (3) during the later stage, if thorough treatment has effectively driven away all symptoms. In general terms, a positive reaction is given in about 80 per cent, of syphilitic cases. Time is required for the development in the patient's serum of antibodies, hence the reaction may be negative at first, and appear after six or eight weeks have elapsed. The secondary cases which do not react are generally in the early eruptive period. In tertiary cases the reaction is very constant. Tabes, general paralysis, and aneurism give a high percentage of positive results. In general paralysis both blood serum and cerebro-spinal fluid give the reaction ; in tabes the blood serum commonly gives it, but the cerebro-spinal fluid rarely does so. A positive reaction from the cerebro-spinal fiuid is said to be almost pathognomonic of paralysis. Under mercurial treatment a positive reaction may become negative. The longer the syphil- itic virus has been active, and the oftener relapse has occurred, the more constant is the reaction. The earlier mercurial treatment is instituted, and the more effectively it is carried out, and the shorter the time since the last course was undergone, the fewer the antibodies in the serum and the less marked the reaction.