104 CHOREA GRAVIDARUM No very striking advance has been made in the past five or six years in the understanding of chorea gravidarum, and the malady still remains one of the most serious complications of the pregnant state. Still, there have been additions to our knowledge of the disease. Nature and Diagnosis. — Just as with eclampsia, so with chorea, there have been attempts to differentiate between the cases which may be called true chorea gravidarum and those in which a large hysterical or purely neurotic element is present. M^hilst most of the patients are no doubt suffering from ordinary chorea (Sydenham's chorea), modified by the metabolic and other changes of preg- nancy, there are some in whom the morbid state is really hysteria (L. Launay, These de Paris, 1901), and there are others in whom hysterical symptoms (ovarian hyperesthesia, tenderness of the spine, and globus hystericus) are combined with the choreic phenomena. Etiology.—Many of the patients have had chorea at an earlier age {e.g. in the fatal case reported by Ballantyne, Journ. Obstet. and Gyncvc. Brit. Emp., xv. p. 182, 1909), and in them the malady commonly recurs in the first half of pregnancy; other cases are due to shock, injury, or emotional disturbance, and then the onset of the choreic symptoms is commonly later in gestation (Hirschl, Monatssch. f. Geb- urtn/i. u. Gynak., xvii. p. 56, 1903). Rheumat- ism no doubt plays a part in the causation of chorea gravidarum; but there is a growing tendency to ascribe considerable etiological importance to the special conditions present in pregnancy, to the tendency to auto-intoxication due to poisonous matters retained in the maternal organism and produced by the mother's tissues or those of the foetus, or by both, to the diminished power of emotional control then present (Wall and Andrews, Journ. Ohstet. and Gynmc. Brit. Etnf., iii. p. 541, 1903), and to the wony and mental suffering due to the patient's state being undesired by her or alto- gether illegitimate. The toxsemic theory of the origin of chorea gravidarum would seem to be gaining considerable ground (Fletcher Shaw, Journ. Obstet. and Gynitc. Brit. Emp., xi. p. 289, 1907), and it is supported by the pro- clivity of primigravidaj to the malady; the toxin is probably very similar in nature to that causing acute rheumatism, and it probably acts by making the nervous system irritable and unstable, and so bringing it back to the state in which it was in childhood (the other period in life which shares with pregnancy the tendency to the development of chorea). Prognosis.—Chorea gravidarum is a very grave complication, and as yet it cannot be said that new plans of treatment have materially altered its dangerous character. It is true that 't is very rare for it to recur in successive pregnancies, although Martin {Deutsche med. Wochensch., xxxii. p. 1265, 1906) has seen two such cases, and H. K. Wallace {Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1906, p. 260) one; but the explanation of this fact may be that the preg- nant women who are specially susceptible to its attacks are carried off by it in their first preg- nancies. It is difficult to determine the effect which the artificial interruption of pregnancy has upon the prognosis ; but Wall and Andrews (J,oc. cit.) think it is not good enough to make the procedure desirable. Spontaneous abortion apparently is not to be looked for: for the pro- portion of women with chorea who abort is only 5 per cent., while in normal (sic) pregnancies it is 16 per cent. Treatment.—The adoption by many of the toxajmic theory of origin for chorea gravidarum has led to a change in the line of treatment employed, although it must be said that the introduction of the new methods is taking place very slowly. In 1903 Wall and Andrews {loc. cit.), from their exhaustive analysis of the cases occurring at the London Hospital, were in- clined to recommend good nursing and full feeding (especially with carbohydrates), with chloral hydrate or chloralamide (in small doses not frequently repeated) as hypnotics. They condemned treatment by the bromides, and thought the induction of abortion undesirable, although they admitted that the more rigorous antisepsis now in use might diminish the risks of this operative interference. Opium, they thought, was unsuitable, and alcohol to be preferred to arsenic. Martin {loc. cit.), on the other hand, thought well of the bromides, and gave the bromides of sodium and ammonium in doses of 2 grams, and bromide of magnesium in doses of 4 grams (60 grains); iron and arsenic were useful in mild cases ; but he did not recommend morphine or chloral. He thought that if the life of the mother were seriously threatened induction of abortion or premature labour should be carried out; but if the chorea supervened in the later stages of pregnancy he did not think induction should be quickly adopted. If the immediate emptying of the uterus be desirable, Martin thought it was best done by colpohysterotomy. The influence upon treatment of the new views regarding the etiology of chorea gravi- darum is seen in the suggestion by Fletcher Shaw {Journ. Obstet. and Gyiwc. Brit. Emp., xi. p. 300, 1907; xiii. p. 347, 1908), Rudaux, and others that eliminative methods be adopted. Chorea is thus brought into into the same category as eclampsia and hyperemesis. Thy- roid extract has been tried for this purpose, but Shaw could not feel certain of its results. The treatment recommended was rest in bed, with a diet restricted entirely to milk, till the choreic movements showed signs of lessening, with a return to milk if they again increased; the skin and kidneys were kept acting freely