BLADDER, FEMALE 62 patient was a female infant of six weeks; the mass was removed, but the child died, and it was at the autopsy that the condition of affairs was discovered (E. von Hibler, IP'ien. klin. JForhenschr., xvi. p. 506, 1903). Cystitis.—It is now generally accepted that inflammation of the bladder is pi-actically always due to microbic invasion of the tissues, and that the other so-called causes {e.g. foreign bodies, such as hairpins, stone, tumours, ab- normal urine, operative or non-operative trauma, displacements, and " chills ") are only predispos- ing ; it is also believed that the causal organisms in their order of frequency are the colon bacillus, the gonococcus, the streptococcus and staphy- lococcus pyogenes, the proteus vulgaris, and the tubercle and typhoid bacillus. But whilst this is so, these predisposing and exciting ■causes are generally linked together : most of the microbes may be present in the urine with- out infecting the bladder wall if the vesical tissues be not predisposed to their action by one or more of the above-named causes; and even when the non-microbic cause (e.g. trauma or chill) is very obviously present, it may not result in cystitis in the absence of infecting organisms. At the same time it is believed that the gonococcus and the tubercle bacillus may infect a healthy bladder ; mixed infection {e.g. with the gonococcus and the colon bacillus) may also occur. In gynecology, it has always to be borne in mind that certain of the pre- disposing causes are more prominent than in oi'dinary surgery : for instance, the urethra is short, and there is evidence that foreign bodies are not infrequently introduced, carrying with them the risks of injury and infection (this may happen in connection with attempted abor- tion, with catheterisation, or with manoeuvres carried out to excite erotic feelings); again, the proximity of the bladder to the uterus and annexa will subject it to the risks accompanying morbid states of these organs (e.g. microbic infections, parametritis, ovarian abscess, rupture of dermoid cysts, incidents connected with ectopic gestation, formation of vesico-vaginal or vesico-uteiine fistulte as results of dystocia, etc.). These matters must all be kept in mind in dealing with cystitis in the female ; and the frequency with which hysterec- tomy (abdominal and vaginal) and hysteropexy ■or ventrofixation of the uterus are now per- formed must not be forgotten, for these pro- cedures liriug the bladder immediately into the sphere, and subject it to the risks of operative manipulations. The freedom with which cystoscopy is employed for diagnostic purposes, and the use of catheterisation of the ureters, etc., introduce additional risks of bladder-infection. Fortunately, these dangers of post^operative cystitis can be largely avoided by strict asepsis and by gentleness during •operation, and by the rigid application of the rules of surgical cleanliness in the performance of catheterisation afterwards. The treatment of cystitis in the female is facilitated by the topographical relations of the organ ; it is also modified to some extent thereby. The diagnosis must first be made by the discovery of pus in the urine; the possibility of renal or ureteric disease is in a number of instances to be ex- cluded hy cystoscopy ; and the particular variety of microbe which is present is to be settled by bacteriological examination of the urine. It may be noted here that Hunner (Amer. Med., vii. pp. 701-707, 1904) believes that the demon- stration of the tuljercle bacillus in urine can be made with comparative certainty. There have been of late years marked advances in the treatment of cystitis, and these are par- ticularly applicable to the disease as it occurs in women. With them has come the power of differentiating various morbid states and of settling upon the special method to be used in any given case. For instance, the diagnosis of the kidney as the seat of mischief will pre- vent the medical man wasting valuable time in the treatment, useless under the circum- stances, of the bladder. To prevent cystitis means must be taken to diminish the frequency of catheterisation, especially during and after labour and operations; for this purpose free drink- ing of water should be inculcated, and all other plans to aid micturition should be employed (e.g. injection of hot water into the rectum) before recourse is had to the catheter. Amongst the more useful medicines which may be given in cystitis, urotropin (in doses of 10 grs. thrice daily) and helmitol (also a hexamethylene- tetramine prepai'ation) and salol may be named. For local treatment, antiseptic irrigations, in- stillations, and topical applications have been found of great value; one may begin with irrigations of normal saline solution till the bladder is able to tolerate antiseptic solutions such as that of silver nitrate (from 1 in 5000 to 1 in 500) or of bichloride of mercury (from 1 in 150,000 to 1 in 5000). Instillations enable us to use stronger solutions at less frequent intervals {e.g. once or twice a week) ; for instance, the instillation of one ounce of protargol solution (1 to 3 per cent.) in this way is of great value. Topical applications cai'ried out with the patient in the genu- pectoral position, with the bladder distended with air, and through a tubular speculum, enable us to attack the mucous membrane alone and to concentrate upon the specially diseased spots in it (Hunner in Kelly and Noble's Gynecology, i. p. 483, 1907). In this way nitrate of silver solutions give good results in ulcers of the bladder. Among the directly surgical means now employed, curettage can hardly be said to be free from risk, and is not so much used, its place being taken to a large extent (in intractable cases) by the artificial