136 ECTOPIC PREGNANCY converted into a tubal mole, or bursts into the peritoneum, or is discharged as a tubal abortion into the abdominal cavity ; under these circum- stances the intra-uterine pregnancy may go on uninterruptedly or may end as an al>ortion, the extra-uterine pregnancy may be operated upon and the intra-uterine one may either abort or go on to full term, or both pregnancies may come to an early end with dangerous accompaniments. A third sub-variety is that in which both the extra-uterine and the intra- uterine gestation go on to the full term with living foetuses. Although this combination constitutes a formidable difficulty and a most dangerous type of case, the skill of the operator has occasionally saved one or other of the children or the mother ; while, in at least one case, the mother and both children survived (Ludwig). (7) A seventh variety to which reference must be made is pregnancy in the stump of an excised Fallopian tube. This may well appear to be almost an impossibility, nevertheless some well authenticated cases of stump-pregnancy have been put on record. Morfit(J/«d iVews, Ixxvi. p. 869, 1900) removed the right tube and ovary for pyo.salpinx in a young woman, and two years later he had to open the abdomen again, finding that there had been a pregnancy in the stump of the right tube which had ruptured. Vineberg (Amer. Jonrn. Obstet., Ivii. p. 527, 1908) had to deal with a patient complaining of the discharge of blood from the bowel. She had previously had the left tube and ovary removed by another operator, and now Vineberg found an irregular semi-elastic mass to the left of the uterus. On opening the abdomen he found the mass to be an ectopic gestation sac adherent to the sigmoid flexure, and he performed pan- hysterectomy ; the right ovary contained a corpus luteum, so there must have been migra- tion of the ovum. Another case of stump- pregnancy was reported by Hinder {Australas. Med. Gaz., xxi. p. 414, 1902). With the increase which has taken place in our knowledge of the pathology of ectopic gestation has come the possil)ility of more correctly deciding what the complications of the morbid state may be. A pelvic hsematocele, for instance, must now be generally regarded as a result of an ectopic gestation rather than a complication ; it is probably due, in most cases, to a tubal abortion. On the other hand, it is known that torsion of the tube may occur as a complication of tubal pregnancy (Pestalozza, Boll, di Soc. Tosc. di Ostet. e ginec, i. p. 117, 1902 ; Schauta, Zoitralh. f. Gyndk., xxx. p. 160, 1906 ; Santi, Ginecolocjia, iii. p. 333, 1907 ; and Weckerling, Diss, inaug. Giessen., 1907); it may be accompanied by uterine fibroids (Holmes, Amer. Joum. Surg, and Gynec, xvi. p. 113, 1902-3), by ovarian cysts (Arnold, Lancet, i. for 1907, p 1490), by pyosalpinx (Hitschmann, Zeitsch. f. Geburtsh. u. Gyndk., liii. p. 1, 1904), or by cancer of the cervix (Rech, Zentralb. f. Gyndk., xx. p. 421, 1896). It may also be followed by the development of a chorion-epithelioma (Hinz, Zeitsch. f. Geburtsh. u. Gyndk., lii. p. 97, 1904). Primary Abdominal Pregnancy. Whilst it may be said that the evidence in favour of the possibility of the occurrence of primary ovarian pregnancy is conclusive (see p. 140), the same cannot be affirmed of the lirimary abdominal variety. As a matter of fact, the demonstration of the ovarian type has weakened rather than strengthened the claims of the abdominal form, for it is very difficult to exclude the possibility of an early ovarian pregnancy undergoing rupture and becoming secondarily abdominal. Such a case as that reported by Herrenschmidt and Rigollot- Simonnot (Arm. de gynec. et d'obstet., 2 s. iii. p. 695, 1906) illustrates this possibility, for during the operation of abdominal section a small lacerated spot was seen on one ovary from which blood was issuing drop by drop ; during the handling of the ovary a small body, about the size of a pea, shot out of the opening in the ovary and was lost; the sac wall showed chorionic villi with syncytium and decidual elements. It is not difficult to imagine the same ejection taking place during a bimanual examination with subsequent attachment of the ovum to the peritoneum. It is doubtful, therefore, whether it will ever be possible to exclude entirely the possibility of an early ovarian pregnancy with rupture, or of an early tubal abortion in cases of alleged primary abdominal pregnancy. At the same time, a number of cases, with a high degree of proba- bility attaching to them, have been recorded during the past few years. Leaving out of account some cases reported near the close of the nineteenth century (such as those of Ashton, Ann. Gyncec. and Poediat., V. p. 667, 1891-2 ; Doran, Trans. Obstet. Soc. Lond., XXXV. p. 222, 1894; and Porro, Ann. di ostet., xviii. p. 577, 1896), there have been some ten or a dozen specimens examined in the beginning of the present century which have strong claims to be regarded as primarily abdominal. The first case of the century claiming to be of this nature was that reported by V. Atlas of Astrachan, in Russia {Ejened. Journ. Prakt. Med. (St. Petersburg), viii. p. 22, 1901 ; abstract in Zentralb. f. Gyndk., xxv. p. 1019, 1901); pregnancy went to the full term and was then operated upon. The gestation sac was in the abdominal cavity, and the placenta was attached to the left horn of the uterus and to the left broad ligament. The evidence in Witthauer's case {Zentralb. f. Gyndk., xxvii. p. 136, 1903) was stronger than