205 INFANT FEEDING to a large extent escapes gastric digestion. Lime water is therefore most useful in intes- tinal indigestion (colic, and passage of loose stools with mucus and " curd"); sodium bi- carbonate in gastric indigestion, with vomiting of curd. Methods of Feeding.—Turning to the newer methods of feeding which have come into vogue, it may be said that even in America percentage feeding has, to some extent, lost ground, and that there is less tendency now than a few years back to insist on the need for an exact correspondence between the proportions of proteid, fat, and sugar, in milk modifications with what is found in human milk. This change of opinion has arisen largely through its having been realised that milk is naturally of variable composition. The importance of securing a milk which is free from bacterial contamination is as strongly held as ever, and while all admit the superi- ority of fresh over-cooked milk, it is at present practically impossible to secure sterility except by some process of heating. Boiling, pasteur- isation at 156° F. for 20 minutes, and sterilisa- tion in a water-bath at 212° F. for periods of from 5 minutes to 45 minutes, all have their advocates ; the first and the last are perhaps the most widely used, as being free from the uncertainty of pasteurisation. " Bud- dised '■' milk—i.e. milk which has had added to it as much hydrogen peroxide as it will decompose when subjected to a temperature of 120° F. for 3 hours—has been introduced by Dr. Budde ; it is stated that milk so heated remains sterile, and does not present the dis- advantages of boiled milk. This milk is now on its trial, and it is very doubtful whether it will really prove superior or even equal to ordinary boiled or sterilised milk. The work of the Royal Commission on Tuberculosis (see TUBERCULOSIS) has drawn renewed attention to the conveyance of the contagion of tuberculosis by milk. In the opinion of the commissioners the danger of such transmission does exist. Some clinicians believe that abdominal tuberculosis is fre- quently caused by infected milk; others believe that the risk is very small. In any case, the disadvantages of the use of milk sterilised by heat are so trifling in comparison with even the remote possibility of infection with tuberculosis, that it is unjustifiable to feed young infants with raw milk unless one is assured that it is derived from cattle which haA'e passed the tuberculin test. In random samples of commercial milk the percentage which contain living tubercle bacilli is consider- able—7-8 per cent, in Manchester (1901-1906); 13-05 per cent, in Sheffield (1902-1906) ; 1-5 per cent, in Liverpool town milk, and 6*5 per cent, in Liverpool country milk (1906-1907). Thermal Death-Point of Tubercle Bacilli in Milk.—Boiling kills the organism. It may survive exposure to 158° F. for half an hour, especially if a pellicle is allowed to form on the milk, in the meshes of which the bacilli become entangled. Russell and Hastings found that a temperature of 140° F. maintained for 20 minutes ensured their destruction, provided the milk was in a closed vessel and that no pellicle was allowed to form. Feeding ivith Undiluted Milk.—This, which is more commonly known as " Budin's Method," has attracted considerable attention since the appearance of the late Professor Budin's work, Le Nourrison (English translation by Maloney, The Nursling (London), 1907). The feature of the method is the use of cow's milk, un- diluted and unmodified in any way except by the process of sterilisation. In Budin's hands it was extraordinarily successful, and although others have not been so fortunate in their experience, it is probable that some of the failures have been due to neglect of the details on which Budin insisted. Budin's method is only suitable for healthy infants. In most cases Professor Budin was able to supervise the feeding of his cases from birth onwards, and thus was dealing with a class of patients different from those attending dispensaries and hospitals in this country, most of whom already suffer from digestive disorder at the time they come under treatment. Another' point which is sometimes overlooked is that Budin himself advised that the milk should be diluted with water in the case of premature, weakly infants. Overfeeding is the most fertile source of diffi- cultj' in Budin's method, and in adopting this method of feeding the following rules must be adhered to:— 1. The milk must be sterilised at 212° F. for 45 minutes in a Soxhlet's or similar- steriliser. After the first few months the period is shortened, and when the infant is 8 or 9 months old 5 to 10 minutes is ample. 2. The quantities given must be small. On an aver-age a quantity of milk equal to one- seventh of the Ijody weight is giverr daily—to a baby weighing 7 lbs. 15 ozs. As a general rule it is best to begin at birth with 10 feeds of 1 oz. each. 3. The amount of food required is judged of solely by the weight curve. So long as the baby gains 4 or 5 ozs. every week the daily ration should not be altered. If the weight be stationar-y, or fall, 2 or 3 ozs. of milk should be added to each day's feeds. The advantages of Budin's method are (1) simplicity; (2) economy; (3) normal develop- ment and absence of rickets. There is no special liability to scorbutus. The dyspepsia which is said to occur after a month or two is almost certainly due to overfeeding, and can be avoided. The chief disadvantage is the cost