1 Aba,die'S Sig^n.—A phenomenon noticed in exophthalmic goitre, and consisting of spasm of the levator palpebrse superioris muscle. Abattoirs.—Steady progress is being made in the hygiene of the slaughter-house, and in many places the methods employed are beyond reproach. The plan of killing bullocks by stunning them with a blow from a pole-axe has been criticised, but when it is done by an expert (as is always the case in large abattoirs), and when followed immediately by cutting the throat, the suffering of the animal is very little. Pigs are slaughtered by having their throats cut, and they ought to undergo an ante-mortem as well as a post-mortem examination before they are passed for food ; in the former any external mischief can be detected, and the animal kept back for separate slaughtering, while by the latter (carried out immediately after the bristles have been removed) signs of tuberculosis or other disease are carefully looked for, and the carcasses are either passed, condemned, or held back for further examination. All the by- products in cattle slaughtering are now made use of : the blood is turned into a fertilising agent; the fat is used for butter and lard substi- tutes ; the oil from the fat is utilised in making oleo-margarine ; buttons are manufactured from the white hoofs and glue from the sinews; the intestines are turned into sausage skins; the bones are ground down into bone-meal, etc. The abattoirs and meat-packing houses of Toronto, which seem to be admirably managed, are interestingly described in the Lancet (vol. i. for 1910, pp. 331-333); a new abattoir at Sampierdarina is described by Giovanni (Igiene mod., i. p. 127, 1908); Guerin and Rolants have written of rural abattoirs (Rev. d'hyg., xxx. p. 942, 1908); Hoth and Hengst have dealt with different methods of slaughtering and with the Leipzig abattoir {Zeitschr. f. Fleisch- u. Milch-hyg., xix. pp. 157, 163, 1909); and articles treating of different aspects of the matter have appeared in Hyg. de la viande (1909, iii. pp. 224, 230) and in the Lancet (vol. i. for 1909, pp. 793, 868). Abdominal Section. Examination and Preparatory Treat- ment 1 General ...... 2 Local 2 Instruments 3 Incision 3 Exploration of Abdominal Cavity . 5 Adhesions 5 Special Technique .... 5 Peritoneal Toilette . . . . & Closure of Incision . . . . & Dressing 7 After-Treatment 7 Complications 9 See also Cesarean Section; Surgery, Asepsis in; Uterus, Tumours of. Whilst many of the details of an abdominal section (celiotomy or laparotomy) differ in no whit from those of any other surgical procedure (see Surgery, Asepsis in), there are some which can be most conveniently studied apart. In no department of surgery has there been more rapid progress and more brilliant success than in abdominal work; the initial advances were made by the gynaecologist in his operations upon cystic ovaries and diseased conditions of the Fallopian tubes, but the general surgeon has- carried the work on into the sphere of the liver, stomach, intestine, spleen, kidney, ureter, bladder, prostate, and pancreas with marked success. Preparatory Examination and Treat- ment.—There are cases in which the abdomen must be opened at once {e.g. twisting of the pedicle of an ovarian cyst, ruptured gastric ulcer or ectopic pregnancy, perforated appendix vermi- formis), when of course no preparatory treatment is possible, when even the preparation of the patient for the operation itself must be hurried; but in most cases of celiotomy there is abundant time to make every needful preparation and to take every possible preliminary precaution. At the same time lengthy preparation is to beavoided