PLAGUE 294 {d) In an infected godown the infection is effective in proportion as the test animals are accessible to fleas, (e) Infection can take place without any contact with contaminated soil, if) Aerial infection is excluded, {g) The experiments lead to the conclusion that fleas, and fleas alone, were the transmitting agents of infection." Turning next from experimentally infected godowns, to experi- ments made by placing susceptible animals in naturally infected native houses, we find —"(1) Guinea-pigs may contract plague if allowed to run loose in plague-infected houses ; and many rat-fleas are found upon them. (2) In houses whei'e all plague germs are killed by disinfectants, guinea-pigs still are in the same proportion, and an equal number of rat-fleas is found on them. (3) Fleas caught on rats dead of plague are capable of infecting healthy rats or guinea-pigs not otherwise exposed to infec- tion. (4) Fleas from guinea-pigs which have been allowed to run loose in infected rooms are similarly infective to healthy rats or guinea- pigs not otherwise exposed to infection. (5) Guinea-pigs in cages which protect them from the floor or other source of infection, but which are exposed to the attacks of fleas in plague- infected rooms, contract plague in a certain proportion of cases. Those similarly placed but protected from fleas do not develop the disease. (6) Most of the fleas caught in the above manner are rat-fleas, and have plague bacilli in their stomachs in 19-7 per cent of those dissected. (7) Almost all the primary buboes in animals thus infected are in the neck, and the commonest place for fleas to be found is also in the fur round the neck. (8) Plague-infected houses have twelve times the number of fleas in them than those free from suspicion of infection have " (Bannerman). In con.sidei'ing how man becomes infected it is important to remember that the avenue through which the germs gain entry is the skin, at least in the ordinary bubonic and septictemic type of the disease. Pneumonic plague may be ignored, as it occurs in only about 2-5 per cent, of all cases. In man there is no seat of election for buboes; the primary bubo develops in connection with the area of skin attacked. There is a definite time relation- ship between the rattus epizootic and the human epidemic. First comes the epidemic among the brown rats, then the epidemic among the black rats, last the epidemic among men. When the epidemics are at their height the intervals between the maximum death-rate in rats, and the maximum death-rate in man is about 10-14 days. Lamb explains this interval thus : There is first a period cori'esponding to that between the disappearance of the rat and the time when the flea, pi'essed by hunger, will attack man. This has been experimentall}'^ proved to be about three days. After the fourth day fleas rapidly become less infectious. Second, there is a period corresponding to the incubation of plague—three days. Thirds there is the period corresponding to the- average duration of plague—five to six days. Adding these together we get a period of eleven to twelve days, corresponding to the interval between epizootic and epidemic. Travellers are the chief agents in distributing plague Fleas fed on man may remain alive for three weeks, and may remain infective for 15 days There is thus ample time for their con- veyance from place to place. In the new district the fleas escape to the abundant rats, infect them, and thus start an epidemic. Clothes containing fleas may, of course, trans- mit infection in the same way. Carriers of infected fleas may themselves escape infection. The plague germ undergoes no transforma- tion in the flea; they are excreted in the fajces on the skin of the host, and invade the wound made by the flea's pricker. They are not ex- creted by the saliva or mouth of the flea. The common cat and dog flea {P. felis) cannot transmit the disease, but both ceratophylhis fatsciaf us, the common rat - flea of Northern. Europe, and P. irrilans, the human species, can do so, the former with ease, the latter with difficulty. The above is abridged from Col. Bannerman's paper {Edin. Med. Journ., May 1908), which gives the literature of the subject. Plasmon.—A proprietary food prepara- tion consisting of the casein of milk, and con- taining over 80 per cent, of pure protein, along with phosphorus combined as it is in milk (to an amount equivalent to 2"66 per cent, of anhydrous phosphoric acid) ; plasmon can be procured as plasmon cocoa, plasmon custard powder, beef plasmon, etc. See Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1910, p. 452 ; Lancet, ii. for 1908, p. 99. Poliomyelitis anterior acuta.— Owing to the epidemic prevalence of anterior poliomyelitis in certain countries in recent years, the infectious nature of the disease must now be regarded as ceitain. Both the Swedish and New Yoi'k epidemics have afforded oppor- tunity for much work on the pathology and clinical features of the disease, but the infective agent has not yet been discovered. Holt and Bartlett have collected records of .35 epidemics, the chief being those which occurred in Norway and Sweden in 1905-1906. There was also an epidemic in Australia in 1904 (108 cases), and in Vermont (132 cases), but nowhere has the disease been so widespread as in the Scandi- navian peninsula, where over a thousand cases occurred during 1905 and 1906. The influence of season is very definite ; most cases occur in July, August, and September, or in the corre-