167 GROCOO'S SIGN OF PLEURAL EFFUSION Siciliano, viz. that the fluid lying against and pressing anteriorly over the bodies of the vertebrfe acts as a mute in suppressing the sonorous vibrations of the spine. This deaden- ing of the resonance is naturally appreciable for a certain distance beyond the median line over the area occupied by the transverse processes and the first part of the ribs. It is more marked and extends over a wider area at the base, where the fluid, collecting in the sinus of the pleura, comes into wider contact with the vertebra?, and pushes farther around toM^ards the affected side. The displacement of the contents of the mediastinum—aorta, azygos vein, oesophagus, and heart—may play a part, especially in eff'usiou on the right side of the chest, in producing this dulness as well as in bringing about a certain degree of compression of the lung on the opposite side. REFERENCES.—Fabtan and Thayer, A mer. Journ. Med. Sci., .Jan. 1907.—Ewart, Lancet, ii. p. 216, 1905.— Badhel and Siciliano,-Sii". crit.di cUn.med., vi. p. 411, 1905. Group - Action. — See Immunity {AgghUination). Grouse Disease.—A form of avian coccidiosis clue to Eimeria {coccidiv.vi) avium, Avhich has a destructive effect on the epithelium of the duodenum and cseea in grouse chicks setting up diarrhoea; the esecal droppings contained spores (schizogony and sporogony occurring in the intestine), and these were a source of infection on the moors, aided probably by the larvfe of Scatophaga; other parasitic protozoa have been found in the intestine of the grouse, but they do not appear to be very harmful to the birds. See papers by Fantham summarised in the Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1910, pp. 59 and 1252. GuacamphOi.—An insoluble guaiacol compound (camphorate), having the advantage over guaiacol of being tasteless. Guaco.—A plant from Caraccas, Vene- zuela, reputed to possess remedial qualities in cases of snake-bite, black scorpion bite, and in hydrophobia. See Lancet, i. for 1908, p. 1084. GuaiacOSe.—A proprietary preparation containing somatose and calcium guaiacol-sul- phonate ; it is recommended in wasting diseases and convalescence for its nutritive and anti- septic properties. For analysis see Lancet, ii. for 1908, p. 1375. Guaiac Reaction. — See Digestive Functions, Tests for. Guaiaiin. — A formaldehyde derivative which does not liberate formaldehyde even on boiling ; according to Soltman it has practically no action as an intestinal antiseptic. Guaiamar. — A soluble guaiacol com- pound, being guaiacol-glycerin-ester, recom- mended in doses of from 3 to 15 grains in phthisis and as an intestinal antiseptic. Guanase.—The ferment by whose action guanin is converted into xanthin when finely divided pancreas acts upon the guanin for some hours at 40° C. Guipsine. — An alkaloid (volatile and liquid) prepared from fresh mistletoe, under the supervision of Leprince, and said to con- stitute its active principle ; it is recommended in cases of arteriosclerosis, hfemoptysis, gout, etc., for the relief of arterial hypertension. See Lancet, i. for 1909, p. 925. Gull's Renal Epistaxis.—A form of hsematuria in which no definite lesion has been discovered ; it has been termed renal haemo- philia, angioneurotic hajmaturia, and renal aneurism. Hsemagrgrlutinins. — <S'6e Immunity (^Agglntijiation). HsemamoebiasiS.—Malaria or palud- ism, so called from the parasitic organism [Hcemamoeha vivax, etc.) present in that disease. Hsematoi.—An organic preparation of iron. Hasmatopan.—An organic preparation of iron (from blood), along with about 40 per cent, of malt extract, possessing a pleasant taste and smell. HsematOSe.—An iron preparation, being a compound of albumin with naphthol green ; it is insoluble in the stomach, but its iron is split off by the action of the intestinal secretion. See Fortescue-Brickdale, Guide to the Newer Remedies, p. 72, 1910. Haeminol.—An organic preparation of iron. Hasmoal kali meter. — See Blood (^Alkalinity). Hsemochromatosis with Dia- betes. —Bronzed Diabetes .—Hajmochrom- atosis is a rare disease. Up to 1906 only 35 cases had been reported. Futcher gives as the three cardinal symptoms manifested in the most advanced stages :—1. Pigmentation of the viscera and usually also of the skin. 2. Cirrhosis of the liver, almost invariably of the hj^per- trophic type and accompanied by striking pigmentation of the organ. 3. Diabetes mel- litus, which dominates the clinical picture in the latest stage of the disease. It is due to the final development of a pigmentary cirrhosis of the pancreas, thus interfering with its glycolytic function.