395 UTRICULOPLASTY described five cases in which utriculoplasty was employed {Lancet, i. for 1911, pp. 1266- 1268); and he is of opinion that it is a legitimate alternative to hysterectomy in the treatment of intractable uterine haemorrhage due to "hajmorrhagic metritis" or "chronic fibrotic metritis," and that it is also feasible to deal in this Avay with a uterus the seat of small fibroid tumours. It is preferable to hysterectomy when the cervix is healthy, and when the patient desires the menstrual function to be maintained. It has yet to be discovered how a future pregnancy and labour will be borne by such a reduced uterus. Uviol Glass.—A contracted form of ultra-violet glass, i.e. a filter which allows ulti'a-violet radiations much shorter than the glass to pass. Valerobromine (Lagrrand).—A proprietary preparation, being an organic com- bination of the valerianates and the bromides, for which it is claimed that it is not unpleasant to take, and does not produce bromism; it is a sodium salt or bromovalerianate; and it is recommended in neurasthenia, epilepsy, and other nervous disorders. See Lancet, i. for 1910, p. 653. Validol.—A synthetic valerian derivative, being the menthol ester of valerianic acid; it constitutes a fluid which is pleasant to take, containing 30 per cent, free menthol; the dose is from 10 to 15 drops, in conditions for which valerian itself is prescribed. See Fortescue- Brickdale, Newer Remedies, p. 264, 1910. Valisan.—Asynthetie valerian derivative, being the bromo-isovalerianic ester of borneol, an almost tasteless fluid, insoluble in water. Fortescue-Brickdale, Newer Remedies,^. 264, 1910. Valyl.—The diethylamide of valerianic acid, which has been recommended (in capsules) in the maladies for which valei'ian itself is pi-escribed. VanadiC Acid. — The pentoxide of vanadium (V.O^) has been used in medicine in solution, and also as the metavanadate of sodium (2Na20.V,05), the former in doses of Jy to grain daily, the latter in doses of to ~ grain daily ; hypodermically the former is given in doses of grain and the latter of -p-V grain ; these drugs have been used in phthisis (early) as oxygen carriers. See Fortescue-Brickdale, Newer Remedies, pp. 245-247, 1910. Vanadium.—sve Vanadic Acid. Vapor i sat ion.—See Atimooausis. Vaquez's Disease. —-S'ee Polycy- THvEMiA Vera ; Osler's Disease. An auto- toxic enterogenous cyanosis. Varicose Veins. — Schede suggests that in operating for varicose veins it is advis- able to make an incision down to the deep fascia completely or partially around the leg, below the knee, and to tie every vein which bleeds. This may be combined with multiple ligature or extirpation of the long saphenous. When a varicose ulcer is present it may be excised along with its indurated border, and the surface covered with Thiersch-grafts. Radical excision of the whole of the long- saphenous vein by the open method involves a large incision, which may be slow in healing, and to obviate this several methods of sub- cutaneous enucleation of the vein have been devised. Mayo (Surg., Gyncec, and Ohstet., April 1906) employs a ring vein-enucleatov con- sisting of a quarter-inch steel ring set at an oblique angle on a long handle. The instru- ment is not unlike an ordinary uterine curette. After dividing the vein in the upper part of the thigh and tying the proximal end, the operator threads the lower end of the vessel through the ring, and while an assistant fixes the tissues on each side, he gently pushes the ring-enucleator under the skin down the vessel, making tension at the same time on the loose end. After separating six or eight inches of the vein in this way, the ring is made to pro- ject against the skin, and a second incision is made in it. The vein is then pulled through this incision, and the instrument having been withdrawn from the upper wound, is again threaded with the vein and used to enucleate another portion from the second incision. In enucleating a vein in this way the small lateral veins are of course divided, but they usually close of themselves without difficulty. In about 10 per cent, of cases the vessel walls are too friable to allow of the operation being- successfully performed. The Mayos state that the subcutaneous removal of the internal saphenous vein from a point eight inches above the knee to a point four inches below it inter- rupts the superficial circulation as effectively as Schede's circumcision. Keller has employed a somewhat analogous method. He divides the vein in two places some distance apart, and ties abo^ e and below. A strong suture is then attached to the distal portion of the vein in the upper incision, and a long wire is passed along the lumen from the lower incision. The suture is then threaded through a loop in the wire, and the wire, caiTying the suture, withdrawn by the lower opening. By pulling on the suture the vein is then invagiiiated into its own lumen and removed by being turned outside in. Babcock