CESAREAN SECTION 79 traction of the uterine incision, and greater ease in the extraction of the child—and showed that only one of them (the last) was really of much importance. Further, Munro Kerr pointed out that against this single advantage (greater ease in extracting the infant) had to be placed the tendency there was for the uterus to become attached higher up to the abdominal wall and to remain larger. On the whole, he was prepared to state that the best incision for ordinary cases was an anterior longitudinal one made hujh up in the uterus; but the transvei'se fundal cut might be found useful in cases in which the uterus was to be removed. Thei's is a second detail in the performance of Cesarean section which has been the subject of contro- versy, viz. coincident sterilisation of the 'patient. The question which has arisen is this: If the uterus is left, ought means to be taken to prevent a subsequent pregnancy, and if so, what is the best method of procedure 1 It has been urged by many that sterilisation should accompany Caesarean section, because of the danger of rupture of the uterus in a subsequent pregnancy, and because of the increasing risk of repeated sections; on the other hand, it has been stated that if the uterine wound be care- fully sutured there is little danger of rupture (and certainly not many cases of rupture have been reported), and that the repeated operation is, as a matter of fact, less dangerous than the primary one, because of the presence of adhesions between the uterus and the anterior abdominal wall, which shut off the peritoneal cavity and enable the obstetrician to carry out the operation extra-peritoneally (Sir Wm. Sinclaii', Jovrn. Obstet. and Oyncec. Brit. Emp., xii. p. 335, 1907). So far, howevei', as the surgical question is concerned, it must be admitted that the arguments in favour of sterilisation are the stronger ones, for it cannot be maintained that subsequent pregnancies and Caesarean sections are as safe as subsequent sterility. The ethical question is a much more open one. Some have said that the right plan is not to sterilise but to tell the patient and her husband the possible results of a subsequent pregnancy and a re- peated Caesarean section, and so to shift the I'csponsibility on to their shoulders (Green, Amer. Journ. Obstet., xlvii. p. 773, 1903); others have recommended sterilisation in pauper patients, but not in those of the better class until the operation has been twice performed (Whitridge Williams, ibid.); and yet others have taken the high ground that the obstetrician's duty is to deliver his patient as safely as he can and leave her organs in as natural a condition as possible, repeating the operation of Caesarean section when called upon to do so (Spencer, Trans. Obstet. Soc. Land., xlvi. for 1904, p. 334). Sir Wm. Sinclair {Journ. Obstet. and Gyncec. Brit. Emp., xii. p. 342, 1907) is of the same opinion. Galabin {Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1902, p. 1124) says, " I think it right to leave to the patient the decision as to whether she should be sterilised for the future; considering that, if a woman is so formed by Nature, that she cannot bear a child spontaneously, she is en- titled to be relieved from the perils of artificial delivery." The question of sterilisa- tion is obviously a very difficult one, especially from the ethical side ; but on the whole, the progress of events and the trend of opinion would seem to be in the direction of carrying it out in as few cases as possible. The next question has reference to the best method of sterilising, if the procedure be determined on. There are three plans—removal of the ovaries, supravaginal amputation of the uterus, and resection of the Fallopian tuljes. Save in the case of osteomalacia (where there is evidence that I'emoval of the ovaries checks the progress of the bone disease) the first of these procedures is not usually followed; the value of the ovarian secretion in the general economy of the body is now too well known and appreciated for it to be lightly dispensed with, and there are, as well, risks of ligatures slipping, etc., which are peculiar to the operation of oophorectomy when conjoined with Caesarean section. Supravaginal hysterectomy is, of course, a certain method of sterilising the patient, and has the advantage of preserving the ovaries; but it presupposes a greater amount of operative experience than is usually possessed by anyone save a specialist in obstetrics, and it may tui'n out that the uterus, like the ovaries, has an internal secretion which is of value in the regulation of the metabolism of the female bodily economy. Further, it is not, of course, available in cases of Caesarean section. The third method of sterilising the patient, viz. by resection of the tubes, is the most suitable in the great majority of cases of the conservative operation; it consists in ligaturing the Fallopian tubes in two places, and removing the portion of the tube between the ligatures; since it has been known to fail (pregnancy again occurring), it may be well to biing the peritoneum over the openings in the tubes. Munro Kerr {Operative Midivifery, p. 425, 1908) points out that this method has an advantage which the other two lack—it may be undone again by operation, if, for any reason, the patient desire to conceive; the abdomen can be opened and the ends of the tubes reunited. What may be regarded as a fourth method of performing Caesarean section is the supra- sympliysary extra-peritoneal plan, or extra-peritoneal abdominal hysterotomy. It has also been called cervical Cesarean section, a name which, although correct enough anatomically, is apt to lead to confusion, suggesting, as it does, the vaginal Caesai'ean section. Sectio Ccesarea abdominalis inferim; but for its unwieldiness, would be a satisfactory appellation. This new method