385 URETERS, SURGERy OF temporary application of a clamp with subse- quent necrosis of a part of the wall, or its blood supply may be interfered with, or a too free dissection of it from its sheath with rough handling may lead to the same result. When a fistula is present after an operation, it is important to decide whether it is due to com- plete or partial division of the ureter, as in the former case there is little prospect of spontane- ous cure, while in the latter case cure is probable. The matter is decided by cysto- scopic examination, or the use of the separator (q.v., p. 60). When a ureter is divided during an opera- tion, several procedures may be adopted according to the nature and locality of the lesion. When the wound lies within an inch or an inch and a quarter of the bladder, the upper end can be drawn down and implanted into the bladder. When the injury is higher up we may have to do either with simple division and no loss of substance, or division with loss of substance. In the former case an end-to-end anastomosis, an end-to-side anas- tomosis, or a lateral anastomosis may be per- formed. Where there is loss of substance sufficient to prevent coaptation of the cut ends a lateral anastomosis into the other ureter, or an implantation of the ureter into the bowel may be performed. Lateral anastomosis into the opposite ureter—uretero-ureteral anastomosis— is advocated by Bernasconi and Columbini, on the basis of their experiments on animals and on the cadaver. The injured ureter is carefully separated from its peritoneal covering and carried across the median line to a position parallel to the opposite ureter. The divided end is closed by a ligature, and the two ureters are united by two stitches. The anterior sur- face of each is then incised longitudinally, and the edges of the wounds are united first posteriorly, then anteriorly. The procedure is said to be easier than uretero-enterostomy. In an operation in which end-to-end anasto- mosis of a divided ureter was performed over a sound introduced from the bladder and kept in position for twelve days Boasi got complete cure. The sound is said to have caused no discomfort while in situ. When a fistula has developed, Sampson advises uretero-vesical implantation, nephrec- tomy, or uretero-ureteral anastomosis. When uretero-vesical implantation is possible, he pre- fers to establish a fistula by fixing the divided end of the ureter to the wound and performing a nephrectomy subsequently (Bernasconi and Columbini, Annales des maladies des organes genito-urinaires, 1905, 15th Sept.; Boasi, ibid., 1908, ii. p. 1761; Sampson, Surgery, Gynecology, and Obstetrics, 1909, p. 479 ; Alksen (experi- mental work), Folia Urologica, Bd. iii.. Heft, 2). Ureteral Transplantation.—This may be done into («) the opposite ureter—uretero-ureteral implantation ; (6) into the bladder—uretero- vesical implantation ; (c) into some other viscus colon, sigmoid, vagina. These operations are performed either for fistula, or for extroversion of the bladder. Uretero-ureteral anastomosis has been referred to above. It is seldom possible in cases of fistula. Uretero-vesical implantation may be performed either by the intra - peritoneal or the extra-peritoneal—in- guino-peritoneal—route. Sampson advocates the former as the simpler procedure. The abdomen is opened by a median incision, and the peritoneum is divided below and parallel tO' the pelvic brim. The ureter can then be lifted up in a peritoneal flap, which serves the double purpose of preserving its blood supply and being; of use in fixing it to the bladder. The bladder is drawn up and fixed to the side of the pelvis, the ureter being united to the bladder by three or four stitches. Ureteral Implantation into the Rectum for Extroversion of the Bladder.—Peters, of Toronto, devised a method, briefly as follows :—A rubber catheter is passed into the mouth of each ureter for about an inch, and fixed in position with a fine silk stitch. The mucous membrane round the ureteral opening is incised, and the coats of the bladder are divided until about an inch and a quarter of the ureter projects from the wound. The terminal portions of the ureters are then drawn through the anterior rectal wall. The operation was also independ- ently originated by Bergenhein. In 1892 Maydl introduced trigono-sigmoid anastomosis—the implantation of the intact ureters and trigone of the bladder into the sigmoid. In this operation the peritoneum is necessarily opened. A semilunar incision is- made along the upper border of the wall of the extroverted bladder, the peritoneum is opened, the ureters (into which small catheters are passed) are freed, and a rhomboidal piece of the trigone is resected. This is then implanted into the sigmoid, which lies immediately behind the bladder to the left. Mucous and serous coats are separately sutured. A great many instances of these operations are on record, and numerous modifications have been tried. For instance, the ureteral orifices have been implanted into the pelvic colon, being first freed, with a rosette of mucous membrane, from below, and then implanted by an abdominal incision above the level of the bladder. Dowden {Edin. Med. Journ., Jan. 1909) implanted them into an excluded loop of colon (having previously made an anasto- mosis between the iliac and pelvic colon), with the idea of lessening the risk of ascending in- fection from the constant proximity of faecal matter to the ureteral orifices. Diakonow dis- sects up a cuff" of bladder wall, and makes from it a new urethra which passes within the sphincter ani and opens in front of the rectum. 25