124 ECLAMPSIA Obstet. and Gyncec. Brit. Emp., vi. p. 386, 1904). Nicholson recommended that the dose ■of the thyroid extract should be large, and the drug continued till symptoms of thyroidism appeared (30 to 60 grs. at a time, Trans. Edin. Obstet. Soc, xxxi. p. 229, 1906). To a patient under the care of Ballantyne, in the Edinburgh Royal Mateinity Hospital, Nicholson gave as much as 100 grs. within twelve hours; it was a, serious case of eclampsia, and recovery followed, but a transient attack of hemiplegia was noticed on the eleventh day after the ■occurrence of the eclamptic fits. It is difficult to judge if the giving of thyroid ■extract has greatly benefited cases of eclampsia or no. In Sturmer's series of 41 cases (Joiirn. Obstet. and Gynrec. Brit. Emp., v. p. 531, 1904) at Madras, the mortality was reduced to 12-2 per cent, for the mothers, and 27 of the infants were alive at birth, although 8 of them died within 3 days (54 per cent, infantile mortality). Baldovsky's 2 cases {Vrach Ga.z., xi. p. 31,1904) recovered. The remedy would appear to be most beneficial in those cases in which there is hard cedema, and those in which there is a myxoedematous or pseudo myxoedematous con- dition ; at any rate, clinical evidence shows that the drug may be safely given, even in large doses, in cases of eclampsia, and that it may also be administered for prolonged periods dur- ing pregnancy. Latterly, the question has been complicated by the problem of the action of the parathyroids. Frommer {Monatssch. f. Geburtsh. u. Gytidk., xxiv. p. 748, 1906), for instance, has proven experimentally that re- moval of the parathyroid glands in non-pregnant rabbits and bitches has no effect on their health, but that when placental substance was placed in the abdomen death from tetany followed; further, removal of the parathyroids from preg- nant bitches and rabbits caused eclamptic seizures and tetany. It is, however, to Vassale {Arch. ital. de bioL, xliii. p. 177, 1905) that we owe the parathyroid theory of the origin of eclampsia and its treatment by paraganglin or parathyroidin (Bellotti, Gaz. d. osp., xxviii. p. 91, 1907 ; Kaisei', Zentralb. f. Gyndk., xxx. p. 1240, 1907). According to this theory, it is parathj^'oid insufficiency (congenital or fi-om disease) which causes eclampsia, and in support thereof it has been fomid that removal of the parathyroids causes eclampsia in gr-avid bitches, and that this can be held in check by the administration of large doses of parathyroidin (Vassale, Arcli,. ital. de biol., xlvi. p. 143, 1906-7). At the pi'esent time, therefore, the theory of thyroid inadequacy in eclampsia has become one of parathyroid inadequacy, and the administration of parathyroidin or pai'aganglin is tending to supplant that of thyroid extract. In this connection it may be stated that Chirie (Obstetrique, N.S., i. p. 247, 1908) has found hyperplasia of the suprarenal glands (cortex and medulla) in eclampsia and nephritis. The occurrence of hypertrophy of the foetal thyroid in Fothergill's case of maternal eclampsia fol- lowing the administration of thyi'oidin ('J'/xms. Edin. Obstet. ^'oc, xxix. p. 41, 1903-4) may possibly be found to be of significance in con- nection with the pathogenesis of this grave complication of pregnancy. Theory of Placental or Chorionic Origin.—The idea that eclampsia is caused or at any rate pre- cipitated by the passages of poisonous materials from the foetus to the mother is not new ; but it has alwaj^s been rendered difficult of accept- ance by the occurrence of convulsions in the puerperium after the influence of the infant has been removed. This difficulty exists also in regard to the more recent views of a placental or syncytial origin for eclampsia, although the occurrence of cases in which convulsions accom- panied a vesicular mole {e.g. Hitschmann's obser- vation in the Zentralb. f. Gyndk., xxviii. p. 1089, 1904), where, of course, there was no foetus but where there was a great proliferation of syn- cytium, is in favour of the latter theory. Liep- mann (Miinch. med. Wochensch., lii.p. 2484, 1905 ; Zeitsch.f. Geburtsh. u. Gyndk., liv. p. 366, 1905, and Ivi. p. 232, 1905) supported this view, and stated that a solution made from the placentas of eclamptic patients had a toxic character ; he believed that the toxine, which was very labile, was fixed in the protoplasm of the cells of the placenta, and that it was absent from the normal placenta; he was also of opinion that the fewer the fits which occurred the greater was the amount of toxine in the placenta, and that, con- versely, the more numerous were the fits the less toxine was found in the placenta. He thought that the toxine had a special affinity for the cells of the brain which fixed it, neu- tralised it, and were paralysed by it; that it acted deleteriously on the renal and hepatic par enchyma, and that the lesions in these organs were, therefore, secondary to the toxaemia, and that the epithelium of the chorionic part of the placenta appeared to play an important part in forming the toxine. Liepmaini surmounted the difficulty of the puerperal cases by supposing that the liver might temporarily store up the toxine during pregnancy and labour to liberate it later {Zentralb. f. Gyndk.,-x-xx. p. 693, 1906). His reason for not accepting the theory that the ftetus was the source of the toxine was the fact that the child itself was so seldom injured by it. Before Liepmann's observations were published, Koenig {Zentralb. f Gyndk., xxvii. p. 1175, 1903) had pointed out the occasional association of eclampsia and large placenta (with a relatively small infant); but this fact can- not be freely used in support of the theory of placental origin, for the large size might be due to syphilis. Dienst {Zentralb. f. Gyndk., -axix.. p. 353, 1905) regarded the causal factor in eclampsia as the mixing of the foetal and