265 METHYLATKOPINE BROMIDE ing of its toxicity; it is recommended in whooping cough and as a substitute foi' mor- phine. See Fortescue - Brickdale, Newer Remedies, p. 255, 1910. Methylxanthin.—One of the purin bases. Metra.inine.—Another name for uro- ti'opin. Motte'S Test.—A quantitative te.st for pepsin in the gastric contents, in which tubes of coagulated albumin are used to determine the quantity of pepsin by the amount of diges- tion which takes place in a given time. See Webster, Diagnostic Methods, p. 75, 1909. Microcytase.—In Metchnikoft's theory of immunity the complement (cytase) developed by the microphages (polymorphonuclear leuco- cytes, etc.) is called the microcytase. MiCironucleuS.—The smaller of the two nuclei of the infusorian cell which becomes active during conjugation and fertilisation ; it has been thought by some that the centrosome ■of the ordinary cell is the homologue of this raicronucleus of infusorian cell activity. Microphag'eS.—The small phagocytes •of Metchnikoff's theory of immunity, including the polymorphonuclear leucocytes, the eosino- philes, etc. Microsphyg^mia. —A morbid condi- tion of the pulse, having as its chief character its difficulty of being felt with the finger (6r. fiixgog, small; acpvy/u^og, the pulse) ; it was noted as a permanent condition associated with idiocy and ichthyosis by Variot (in 1898), but later observers (e.g. Richet and Saint-Girons, Progres med., 3 s., xxiv. p. 529, 1908 ; Rev. de mcd., xxviii. p. 987, 1908) found that ichthyosis was not constantly present, and that it was only one of several dystrophic states (dwarfism, malforma- tions of the genital organs, hare-lip, etc.) any one or several of which might be combined with the mental state and the peculiarity of the pulse to form the clinical picture ; the state of tlie pulse (which varied in degree from feebleness with perceptibility up to imperceptibility under all circumstances) was ascribed to per-manent spasm of the muscular coats of the artery. Mintz'S Test.—A quantitative test for free hydrochloric acid in the gastric contents. See Webster, Diagnostic Methods, p. 63, 1909. Miol.—A proprietary food preparation described as "a preparation of the richest ■diastatic malt, the finest product of the olive, free phosphorus, the active principle of cei-tain seaweeds, and other nutritious substances, also the necessary properties for forming bone and muscle." Its analysis is given in the Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1910, p. 29. IVI itOChond ria.—Minute globules which pass out of the nucleus of the cell into the cytoplasm in metabolism ; chromidia or plas mosomes (Gr. p^o'vSfog, a grain; /a/Vog, a thread). Mnemism.—The name of a theory introduced by Richard Semon which attempts to connect somatic variations due to outside influences with the sexual glands so as to make them (the sexual glands) causal to their pi-o- geny qua this somatic variation ; it has to do with the mechanism of the transmission of acquired peculiarities ; it is quite hypothetical (Dr. B. Hart, Evolution and Heredity, pp. 75- 78, 1910). Molluscum Contagiosum. —Although for some time it has been known that molluscum contagiosum can be artificially produced by inoculation of the central core of the lesion, containing the so-called molluscum bodies, from one person to another, the causal organism has not yet been discovered. The incubation period of the disease is a long one, usually from two to four months. Juliusberg has advanced our knowledge a step further by showing that, if the molluscum bodies are pounded up with sand and bouillon in a moitar and then filtered through a Chamberland filter , the disease can still be reproduced by inocula- tion of the skin with the filtrate. This would lead to the supposition that the causal organism must be very much smaller than the ordinary pathogenic organisms which we know in other diseases. REFERENCE.—Juliusberg, Deutsche med. Wochen- sch., p. 1598. 190.5. Momburg^'s Method of Arrest- ingf Hsemorrhagre.—In 1908 Momburg described {Zenfralbl. f. Chir., xxxv. pp. 697, 1193, 1908) a method of preventing or of stop- ping bleeding in the lower half of the body by consti'icting the waist with a rubber tube. At first it was thought that the plan carried no danger with it, and it was adopted for a number of morl)id states in surgery (in operations on lower limbs and pelvis), in gynecology {e.g. in hysterectomj^ for fibroids), and in obstetrics {e.g. in post-partum hasmorrhage). The pelvis is raised so as to allow the intestines to gravi- tate towards the diaphi'agm, an Esmarch's bandage is applied to each leg, then the india- rubber tube is wound so tightly round the waist that pulsation in the femoral arteries ceases. It is not, however, entirely free from risk. In cases of post-partum haemorrhage a