ATROPHY , 207 INFANTILE these at one time, of another later, and because any one of them may result from each of the above sets of causes. The general idea is to group together under one general rubric, "nutritional disturbances," all the vai'ious clinical types of gastro-intestinal disorder which ultimately tend to produce atrophy, and to try to trace exactly the difFei-ent causes which lead to this. The most important form of nutritional disturbance is that described by Czerny and Keller as " milk injury" {Milchndhrschaden). The child, dieted on cow's milk, becomes rest- less, his sleep is disturbed, his motions become greyish instead of yellow and are dry and crumbly; he becomes pale, wasted, his belly is blown out with gas. Ultimately the picture of extreme atrophy develops, complicated by intractable diarrhoea, and by infections of all kinds. According to Czerny and Keller this condition may arise even when the quality of the milk is beyond reproach, and when all attention is paid to its sterility. It depends on some chemical peculiarity of coav's milk. Czerny and Keller deny that the casein plays any part. They think that there is no evidence that this is less digestible than that of human milk. The masses of so-called "curd" in the stools do not consist of undigested casein, but of soaps. Neither will Czerny and Keller admit that undigested casein is specially prone to undergo abnormal decomposition in the intestine and thus prove deleterious. If the faeces of such cases are examined they are found to contain quantities of the soaps of fatty acids, and it is found that the child's nutrition impr-oves when the amount of fat in the food is restricted, and is replaced by carbohydrate. This is one of the chief results of Czerny and Keller's work. When an infant, hitherto fed on cow's milk, often in excessive quantity, begins to manifest the above symptoms and to lose weight, the indication is, not (as is usually done) to increase the daily ration or to render the casein more digestible, but to cut down the fats and add some starch. In mild cases it is sufficient to reduce the amount of cow's milk considerably, and to substitute for what is withdrawn a cereal decoction—e.g. oatflour gruel. In bad cases milk should be withdrawn altogether for a time, and a purely cereal diet given. The substitute which Keller especially recommends is a malt extract prepared accord- ing to a method he has devised. This is sold under the name of LoefflundJs Malz-Suppe Extrakt. It is used in the following way :— Fifty grams of floui' are beaten up with \ litre of milk, and the mixture is strained. One hundred grams of Loefflund's malt extract are dissolved in f litre of warm water, and this is added to the milk and flour. The whole is heated to boiling point, with continuous stir- ring. This is given in the ordinary quantities. Keller believes that buttermilk, as ordinarily prepared for an infant {see Infant Feeding), is useful simply as a food poor in fat and rich in cereal. The diagnosis of " milk injury " as a cause of marasmus depends largely on the history. In regard to prognosis, auscultation of the heart is important. "As long as both sounds are clearly heard, even when the child is restless, life is not in immediate danger. As soon as the sounds become difficult to hear, and cease to be clearly defined, or if the first sound is fainter than the second, the infant is danger- ously ill, even although from its general ap- pearance it may appear to be doing well." The present writer's opinion is that marasmus of this kind is not nearly so common in this country as it seems to be among Czerny and Keller's cases. Undoubtedly, however, cases of the kind do occur, and the adoption of the line of treatment suggested—diminution of the quantity of milk, and the substitution of a cereal decoction or a malted food, or a butter- milk mixture—sometimes proves extremely satisfactory. Metabolism in Infantile Atrophy.—Even when there is great failure of nutrition, nitrogen is well absorbed from the intestine. What is more remarkable is that along with a progres- sive loss of weight there is usually a positive nitrogen balance—i.e. intake of N exceeds out- put. This assimilation of protein, despite a falling body weight, is referable to the fact that though the body is losing weight it is building up new cells; Camerer hss oliserved that even weakly wasted children grow in height. These facts go in the direction of showing that we cannot base a theory of marasmus on faults in the proteid element of the food. The ill effects of an excessivelj' fatty diet are supposed to be connected with ACIDOSIS {q.v.). Acidosis may be relative (decrease of alkali in the tissues), or absolute (increase of acid); in either case it is measured by the amount of ammonia-nitrogen in the urine. When acids are formed in the tissues or absorbed from the intestine, absolute acidosis results; when acids, still in the intestine, are neutralised there by alkalies withdrawn from the tissues for the purpose, there is relative acidosis. Keller found that in children gastro- intestinal disturbances and marasmus were associated with increased ammonia-nitrogen in the urine; he ascribes this to an increased excretion of fixed alkali by the intestine. " The primary event is the excretion of fixed alkali by the intestine, brought about by the fat taken as food. The alkalies are got rid of either unchanged or as soaps, but besides this they also serve to neutralise the increased phosphoric acid, the cause of which is the