109 CULIOIDES wise, which are destructive to the mosquito (culex), e.g. sulphur, camphor-phenol, pyro- fume, etc. Curetta.g'G*—There has heen no radical change in either the method of performing uterine' curettage or in the indications for its use during the past five or six years. For a time interest was centred in the opei'ation of vaporisation of the uterus (atmocausis), which was expected by some to take the place of curettage; and although this expectation has not been realised, it has been thought well to give a description of this competing method of treating uterine morbid states. »S'eeATMOCAUSlS. Considerable discussion has taken place, more particularly in the pages of the Zentralhlntt fur Gynakologie, regarding the explanation of the cases of curettage and sounding of the uterus in which the instrument perforates or appears to perforate the uterine wall. That there is a real danger of uterine perforation with the curette was abundantly proved during a discussion which took place in the American Gynecological Society in 190-5 {Trans. Amer. Gynec. Soc, xxx. p. 15, 1905), when cases were reported in which prolapse of intestine through the uterus had followed curettage. Congdon, also, has put on record (Amer. Journ. Obstet., liv. p. 618, 1906) an extraordinary case in which sixteen inches of gut had been torn away during curetting; the patient came under his care, and he opened the abdomen, closed the uterine wounds, and attached ileum to csBCum by means of a Murphy button; recovery followed without pyrexia. There are other instances, however, in which there is reason to believe that the perforation of the organ by the curette is only apparent: the curette slips in suddenly as if it had passed through the wall, but after-events (e.g. the opening of the abdomen) show complete integrity of the uterine tissue. Various explana- tions have been given of these " false perfora- tions": it has been thought that sudden uterine relaxation (atony or loss of tone) occurs, or that the curette (or sound) passes for some distance into a Fallopian tube, or that there has been a septate condition of the uterus. Articles on the subject have appeared by W. Thorn {Zentralh. f. Gynak., xxviii. pp. 1072, 1128, 1253,1904), by O. SchaefFer {ihid., xxix. p. 1209, 1905), by Robert Asch {ihid., xxix. p. 1250, 1905; xxx. p. 172, 1906), by R. Kossmann {ihid., xxix. p. 1529, 1905), by Catharine A^an Tussenbroek {ihid., xxx. p. 47, 1906), by Jakob {Diss, inaug. (Miinchen), 1905), by Meyer {Zentralh. f. Gynak., xxx. p. 1045, 1906, by Braun-Fernwald {ihid., xxxi. p. 1161, 1907), and Kuntzsch {ihid., xxxi. p. 1590,1907). Some of the cases are possibly explicable as partial perforations in which the curette has passed through the muscle without wounding the peritoneum. Cuti-rea.ction.—See Immunity(<Speci/ic Tuherc'ulin Tests). Cyclic Vomiting. — See Acidosis {Types). Cycledia.lysiS.—An operation for acute glaucoma introduced by Heine in which a per- manent communication is opened up between the anterior chamber of the eye and the supra- choroidal space by partial detachment of the ciliary body (Heine, Mitth. f. d. Ver. Schlesw.- Holst. Aerzte, N.F., xviii, 35, 1909 ; Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1910, p. 1193). Cyclophoria.. — The morbid condition characterised by abnormal rotation of the eyes (Gr. xvxXog, circular motion, and pogew, I bear. Cyclothymia.—Circular insanity, or, according to others, a constitutional tendency to cyclic alternations of emotional exaltation and depression which may, but usually does not, lead on to actual insanity. See Deny, ASemaine med., xxviii. p. 169, 1908. CyesiOg^nOSiS.—The diagnosis of preg- nancy, founded upon the recognition of its signs and the ascertainment of its symptoms. Cyllin.—A proprietary preparation de- scribed disinfectant which combines the maximum of efficiency with the minimum of causticity and toxicity to the higher forms of life " ; it is to be had in a fluid form, made up in capsules or pastilles, as a dusting powder, and in soap, gauze, lint, etc. ; "cyllin inhalant" is stated to be beneficial in pulmonary tuberculosis, tonsillitis, diphtheria, etc. Cynarase.—A rennet ferment obtained from a plant {Cynara carduncidus). Cystinuria. — The morbid state, fre- quently hereditary, in which cystin is excreted in the urine. Cytase.—A synonymous term for comple- ment. See Immunity {Metchnikoff's Theory of Fhacocytosis). Danyscz's Phenomenon.—An ap- parently anomalous result obtained with certain toxins when treated with antitoxin; if the exact amount of toxin which completely neut- ralises a given amount of antitoxin serum be determined, and if only half instead of the whole amount of the toxin be used, and the addition of the other half be made at a later period, then the result is not a neutral but a poisonous mixture requiring more antitoxin to be added before neutralisation is reached; possibly this anomalous result may be due to an