BLADDER, FEMALE 61 carefully sterilised before use, and boiling water or steam is inapplicable in the case of the silk catheters, which have to be treated with corro- sive sublimate solution (1 in 1000). In this way catheterisation of the ureters can be easily carried out, and the separate urine from each kidney can be got free from bladder contamina- tion (which cannot be done with the Harris urine segregator). Malformations.—A curious anomaly of the bladder, the so-called intraligamentary bladder, has recently been described. In this condition the viscus is so developed as to distend and separate the two layers of one or both the broad ligaments of the uterus. It was first noted by Ziegenspeck in 1887, who described a case; another instance was reported by Tandler and Halban in 1901 {Topography of Female Ureter); and four further cases were given by Natanson and Zinner (Monatsschr. f. Geburtsh. u. Gyncik., xxii. p. 615, 1905). It would appear to be a congenital anomaly; it may be unilateral or bilateral; and when it is unilateral the uterus is pushed over to the opposite side, and the relations of the uterine annexa and round ligaments are altered. Clinically, it forms a fluctuating tumour in the pouch of Douglas or in the parametrium. It is of practical importance, for when it is present the ureters are further removed from the vagina than usual, and since the peritoneum reaches deeply down into the pelvis in front of the bladder, the suprapubic operation can be no longer performed without opening into the peritoneal cavity. Fothergill recently operated on a patient for obscure vesical troubles; on opening the abdomen and distending the bladder, it was seen that there was no utero-vesical pouch and that the bladder reached the upper limits of the broad ligaments in the middle line and extended into them on each side; the peritoneum was incised and the bladder separated from the uterus down to the level of the OS internum, and as a result of the operation the patient's condition was consider- ably improved, and she was able to retain several ounces of urine (Journ. Obstet. and G-yncec. Brit. Emp., xii. p. 444, 1907). T. Arthur Helme (ibid., p. 447) has recorded one case in which abdominal hysterectomy for carcinoma of the cervix uteri was made very difficult by reason of the presence of an intraligamentary bladder, and a second instance of this anomaly, in which the intraligamentary bladder formed a cystic swelling in the pouch of Douglas, which protruded from the vulva. Doubtless other instances of this vesical malformation will be reported as its existence comes to be better known. Ectopia vesicce, extroversion of the bladder, or vesical inversion, one of the most trying malformations which a woman has to bear, has continued to engage the attention of the surgeon. Maydl led the way in recent years in the new direction of throwing the urine into the rectum so as to control the urinary incon- tinence, which is the leading and the most dis- agreeable symptom caused by the anomaly. He transplanted the entire trigone of thebladder into the rectum or sigmoid flexure. The Maydl method was an intra-peritoneal operation, and had a considerable mortality (about 33 per cent.). Moynihan's procedure {Ann. Surg., xliii. p. 237, 1906) marked an advance, for it was carried out extra-peritoneally; he catheterised the ureters and excised the entire bladder wall; he then pushed the recto-vesical peritoneum up off" the anterior aspect of the rectum, which he incised; and he finally inverted the bladder and implanted it into the rectal wall. Moyni- han's method, however, is not applicable to the female. Hunner (Kelly and Noble, Gynecology, i. p. 465, 1907) regards Peters's operation as the best: in it there is an extra-peritoneal transplantation of each ureter (with enough of the bladder wall to preserve the uretero-vesical musculature) into the corresponding side of the rectum; the ureters are first catheterised, they are then dissected out with the piece of bladder wall to which they are attached, and they are then transplanted into the rectum just above the internal sphincter {Brit. Med. Journ., for 22nd June 1901). London, New- land, and Bond {Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1906, pp. 961, 964, 1151), as well as Sherman {Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc., xlv. p. 890, 1905), have used this method, with a 20 per cent, mortality, but with good permanent results in the surviving patients ; it is quite extra-peritoneal, it preserves the musculatui-e, and it is said to be easier than the other plans. One of the aggravations of ectopia vesicae is the possibility of the develop- ment of cancer in the malformed organ, an instance of which has been reported by Keitler {Monatsschr. f. Geburtsh. u. Gyndk., xxii. p. 186, 1905). Displacements.—It has been found neces- sary to distinguish between the various con- ditions in which the bladder or a part of it or of the urethra is displaced downwards and appears at the meatus urinarius. The displaced mass may consist of the bladder (urethral cystocele; hernia, inversion, or prolapse of the bladder); then the two ureteral orifices will be seen on it. In other cases it is simply the mucous membrane, loosened from the other layers of bladder wall, which projects; it is. softer and smaller than in the former variety. In yet other instances, the mucous membrane of the urethra itself is the displaced part, and then a depressed orifice in the centre of the mass can be recognised (Villar, Arch. prov. de chir., xiv. p. 373, 1905). A case has been reported in which a cystic ureter was displaced downwards and protruded from the urethra ; it formed a mass the size of a hen's egg; the