SPINAL OORD, SURGERY OF 345 Spinal Cord, Surg^ery of. Suture of the Cord .... 343 Tumours of Cauda Equina . . . 343 Resection of Posterior Roots . . 344 Chronic Spinal Meningitis, Surgical 344 Treatment 345 Among the chief contributions which have been made to the surgery of the spinal cord during the past quinquennium, papers dealing with the possibility of treating transverse wounds by suture, with the operative treatment of tumours, and with the relief of certain forms of meningitis, may be mentioned. Suture of the Cord.—The possibility of suc- cessfully suturing a divided cord has been discussed by Haynes {New York Med. Journ., 22nd Sept. 1906). He deals especially with injury due to bullet wounds, and reports a successful case of myelorraphy. Laminectomy is indicated:—(1) To remove the bullet, or other foreign bodies ; (2) to remove clots and arrest haemorrhage ; (3) to allow drainage in traumatic oedema and sepsis; (4) if par'alysis is advancing; and (5) to suture the cord. He discusses:—(1) The anatomical possibility of suturing the cord, and states that it is feas- ible when the ends are separated by three- quarters of an inch ; (2) the possibility of a severed cord uniting, quoting cases of stab, and experimental section in animals to prove that it does occur. He points out that in every case of complete transverse lesion of the cord not operated on the patient dies in less than a year, and argues that all patients with complete division should be operated on at the earliest moment after recovery from the immediate shock of the injury before degenera- tion takes place. The following are the main points in the technique of the operation :—The dura is exposed by laminectomy, from three to five vertebrae being dealt with ; it is opened to the full extent of the wound and four trac- tion sutures are placed on its cut edge. After removing the bullet, and washing away clots with a stream of saline, the cord is brought into view by raising the dura by the stitches. The bruised ends are carefully trimmed of}', and the ends coapted by fine chromic gut sutures introduced well away from the ends. One suture may be placed antero-posteriorly and two transversely. To aid in coapting the ends the head and thighs should be fully extended. In the upper dorsal and cervical regions greater motility of the ends of the cord may be obtained by dividing the attach- ment to the dura of two pairs of serra- tions of the dentate ligament above and below the site of the lesion. When the sutures are drawn tight the dura is closed by two loose sutures and drained with strands of gut. Murphy {Surgery, Gynaecology, and Obstetrics, April 1907) is not at all sanguine as to the possibility of suturing a divided cord. He lays it down that when the true cord is divided suture is useless, because functional regenera- tion of the grey matter and columns cannot occur. Only in injuries below the 11th dorsal vertebrae is there any prospect of successful union, because here we have to deal with the Cauda equina, which consists essentially of peri- pheral nerves whose neuraxones are covered with neurilemma, and may therefore regenerate as a motor nerve does. The afferent nerves in the Cauda equina are also capable of regenera- tion after accurate suture. Tumours of the Cauda Equina.—The symp- toms of tumour of the Cauda closely resemble those of certain other conditions—hysteria, multiple neuritis, disease of the lumbar or sacral vertebra, intra-pelvic tumour, ha3morrhage or tumour of the conus, and extradorsal lesions (Spiller, American Journal Medical Sciences, March 1908). The development of symptoms is very gradual, beginning with pain and loss of reflexes in the lower limbs, followed by paralysis, and anajsthesia especially in the perineum, genitalia, and around the anus. The pain is often unilateral at first, but as a rule soon becomes bilateral. If the tumour develops at the lower end of the cauda, it will implicate the nerves supplying the bladder and rectum. In hysteria a differential diagnosis is usually possible after carefully going into the case. Midtiple neuritis is very rarely confined to both sciatic nerves and their branches — double sciatica is usually indicative of tumour ; multiple neuritis of the lower limbs is often alcoholic, and the tenderness over the calves is very diagnostic ; the bladder is very seldom impli- cated. Intrapelvic tumour may simulate a lesion of the cauda; the nerve plexus in the pelvis are much more spread out than the roots in the cauda, hence the symptoms are more likely to be unilateral. In pelvic lesions a tumour may be felt per rectum; the motor and sensory symptoms are more likely to synchronise than in caudal lesions, because in the pelvis motor and sensory fibres are combined in the nerves, whereas in the cauda they are separate. In tumours of the vertebrm pain is very prominent, and is likely to become bilateral sooner than in pelvic tumour. Pressure over the lower vertebraj or sacrum may be exceedingly pain- ful. The fact that the symptoms are likely to be at first confined to the distribution of a few nerve roots when the tumour begins in a vertebra is of some differential value in the diagnosis from tumour of the cauda. Lesions of the Conus. — The nerve tracts occupy so small a space that a lesion is likely to implicate most of them simultaneously. The symptoms are very much the same as in lesions of the cauda, the affection of the bladder and rectum, however, being of more constant and early occurrence. There is less pain in conus