90 CANCER Baiubi'idge {Scientific Report on the Enzyme Treatment nf Cancer, New York Skin and Cancer Hospital, 1909), who has treated a hundred cases over a period of neai'ly three years. The materials used consisted of :—(1) Holadin capsules, a pancreas gland extract containing trypsin, amylopsin, and lipase, given to aid digestion; (2) Pepule ox gall compressed, containing inspissated ox bile and pancreatic extract, for the same purpose; (3) Lotio pancreatis, a solvent of broken down tissues applied locally to ulcerated surfaces; (4) injection of trypsin, which, according to Beard, kills cancer cells; (5) injection of amylopsin, which was thought to digest dead cancer cells. The main conclusions arrived at are:—The internal medication—(1) and (2) —aids digestion and increases elimination. Panci'catic lotion cleans the ulcerated surface. Injections of trypsin seem to disintegrate cancerous tissue. While it may accelerate the breaking down of the interior of the tumour, the periphery gr'ows rapidly. This disintegrating action may lie dangei'ous («) by eroding A-essels or {li) by setting free toxins. Injections are often painful. The injections of amylopsin appear to have little efiect. Control cases, given injections of glycerine and ^vater, did as well as those treated with enzymes. Thus the enzyme treatment, given according to Beard's suggestion, is not success- ful. It neither checks the cancerous process nor does it prevent metastasis. See also Bainbridge, Brit. Med. Journ., March 2, 1907. Treatment by Mixed Toxins of Ery- sipelas AND B. Prodigiosus. —Coley, in two recent papers {Amer. Journ. Med. Sci., March 1906, and Netv York Med. Record, July 27, 1907), reports on the late results in the treat- ment of inoperable sai'coma \>j this method. He gives the following directions for the pre- paration of the mixed toxins :—" One pound of minced beef soaked overnight in 1000 c.c. of tap water. Then boiled for an hour ; filtered through flannel. Add peptone (Witte's), 10 grains, NaCl, 5 grains, test reaction to litmus, and render alkaline by addition of sufficient quantity of ten per cent. NaOH. Boil for one hour. Sterilise by boiling half an hour on three successive days. 25 c.c. of bi'oth, in a small flask, is sown from a cultui'c of streptococcus in broth (a few c.c. of such culture Ijeing used). Allowed to grow in the incubator for three weeks. These sown with bacillus prodigiosus (agar oi- broth cul- ture) and allowed to grow at room temperature in the daylight (not direct sun) for ten days more. Poured in sterile bottles, heated to 60° in water bath for one hour. Four to five c.c. of glycerine and a small lump of thymol added. Kept on ice till used." As result of personal use of the toxins in every variety of inoperable sarcoma over a period of thirteen years Coley offers the following suggestions :—(1) Begin with a minimum dose. The more vascular the tum- our the greater the reaction. (2) For local injections (into the tumour) the initial injec- tions should be \ to | minim ; for injections remote from the tumour, 1 minim. (3) Increase the dose until a chill, followed by a tempera- ture of 101°-104", occurs one and a half to two hours after injection. (4) If patient can bear daily injections, so much the better; if the reaction is followed by depression give the injections every second day. (5) If the tumour is so placed that injections are difficult or dangerous, give systemic injections. (6) If the tumour becomes soft and fluctuating, incise and drain softened areas. (7) Give strychnine, iron, and quinine during treatment, and keep bowels open. (8) In successful cases improve- ment occurs in from one to four weeks. If at the end of that time there is no benefit the treatment may be abandoned. If there is improvement continue injections till tumour totally, or almost, disappears. In some cases treatment has been continued in small doses more than a year, and patients are well years after the cessation of treatment. (9) Toxins should be kept in a cool dark place; they remain active for at least a year. The aver- age dui'ation of treatment in successful cases is two to three months. An ordinary sterile syringe is used. Dilute toxins with boiled water for smaller doses. Sterilise skin with alcohol. (10) In post-operative prophylactic use of toxins small doses should be given—a slight rise of temperature with malaise is enough reaction. (11) Long-continued use of toxins is harmless. In the two papers Coley reports 42 successful cases—17 round- celled sarcoma, 17 spindle-celled sarcoma, 2 mixed-celled sarcoma, 1 chondro sarcoma, 1 epithelioma, 4 not examined microscopically; of these 21 patients remained well 5 to 14 years after treatment, 26 well from 3 to 14 years, 10 well from 10 to 14 years. Other surgeons have reported some 60 more or less successful cases, of which 12 remained well for less than a year. In 6 the tumour disappeared and the patient was alive and well from 1 to 2 years later; in 12, alive and well from 3 to 5 years later; in 10, alive and well fi^om 5 to 12 years later. Five cases recurred in from 6 months to 2 years, and two cases died diiring treatment. Doyen's Serum.—Like many other vaunted "cures" for cancer. Doyen's serum has not stood the test of scientific scrutiny. In 1901 Doyen stated that he had isolated a micro- organism from simple and malignant tumours, which, when inoculated into animals cause neo- plasms ; this organism he named micrococcus neoforivam. In the natural sequence of events thei'e came, a few years later, an anti-cancerous vaccine and serum, for which it was claimed