LIPOIDS 244 garded them as bodies which (like ordinary fats) are dissolved in ether, alcohol, benzene, chloroform, and carbon bisulphide. Bang further classifies them into (1) substances con- taining neither phosphorus nor nitrogen, e.g. fatty acids, neutral fats, soaps, and cholesterines and phytosterines; (2) nitrogen-and phosphorus- containing lipoids or phosphatides, e.g. lecithin, kephalin, and sphingomyelin; (3) nitrogen- containing phosphorus-free bodies, e.g. the cerebrosides (phrenosin and kerasin) and the lipoproteins; and (4) bodies of fatty nature not as yet analysed, e.g. lipochromes and certain antigens. See Adami, Pathology, i. pp. 92, 304, 1910. Lipoproteins.—-S^ee Lipoids. Liposarcoma.—A lipoma in which areas of sarcomatous change appear, the whole tumour growing much more rapidly. LiposiS.—A synonym of obesity. Lip-Reflex.—See Reflexes; Spasmo- PHiLE Diathesis. Liver, Cirrhosis of the—Surgi- cal Treatment.—Seeing that attempts to relieve the ascites of hepatic cirrhosis by medi- cal means so often fail to produce more than temporary amelioration, several operative pro- cedures have been introduced. The underlying- principle of most of these is to avert the extravasation of serum into the peritoneal cavity by sending the venous blood through the veins of the belly wall instead of through the portal system. Fixation of the omentum to the abdominal parietes (omentopexy), or fixation of the spleen to the same structure, has been found in a fair number of cases to remove the ascites by establishing a collateral circulation. Greenough in 1902 collected statistics of 104 cases of cirrhosis in which one or both of these procedures had been employed. In 57 per cent, there was no real impi ovement; in 42 per cent, there was improvement. Omentopexy is the less serious and therefore preferable operation; it will probably do good in one case out of every three. According to O'Malley (Amer. Jour. Med. Sci., May 1906), Schiassi's method of operating is the most effective. A right-angled incision down to the peritoneum is made in the left hypochondrium and epigastrium. A triangular flap is dissected up from the peritoneum. The peritoneum is then divided horizontally along the upper edge of the wound, and the omentum is brought through the opening and sutured to the peritoneum along the lips of the opening, the projecting part of the omentum being attached by a few stitches to the outer surface of the peritoneum towards the lower part of exposed area. If splenopexy is to be performed the peritoneum is incised vertically, and the spleen is stitched by deep sutures through its sul)stance to the M'ound. The flap of skin and muscle is replaced. Paterson {Lancet, 29th October 1910) suggests treating ascites by draining the fluid from the abdomen into the subcutaneous tissue of the parietes. To create a channel he employs a flanged glass cylinder, one flange of which lies in the abdomen, the other in the subcutaneous tissue. He removes the omentum in order to prevent its blocking the orifice of the bobbin. The operation has been performed in the ascites of cirrhosis and malignant disease. In hypertrophic cirrhosis 2vith icterus (biliary cirrhosis, Hanoi's cirrhosis) Cumston (Amer. Jour. Med. Sci., July 1906) advocates drainage of the biliary tract by cholecystenterostomy or cholecystostomy. The underlying idea being to get rid of the (probable) infective element in the bile, the latter is preferable. These surgical procedures, though in some cases very successful, have so often failed altogether, or proved merely palliative in their effects, that they have to some extent fallen into disuse. They have, at all events, scarcely fulfilled the hopes which their inventors raised, and during the last year or two comparatively little has been said about them. " Lodai."—This preparation is described as an oxidation product of laudanosine (one of the minor alkaloids of opium), and resembles in its action cotarnine and hydrastine ; it has been shown experimentally to cause a persistent rise in blood pressure when injected intra- venously (in animals) and to slow the heart's action; it also produces tonic contraction of both the pregnant and the non-pregnant uterus ; it has been recommended in uterine haemorrhage and pain. See also Lancet, i. for 1910, p. 1210; Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1910, p. 84. Lohnstein's Saccharometer.— An apparatus for estimating quantitatively the sugar in urine ; it depends upon fermentation. Long^inymph Condition. — The enlargement of the labia minora (nymphse), which is apt to occur in association with steatopygy (lipomatosis of gluteal region) in Bush women and Hottentots; " Hottentot apron." Long^'s Coefficient. — See also Haeser's Coefficient. The total solids in urine may roughly be estimated by multiplying the last two figures of the specific gravity by 2-6, the result being the number of grams in every 1000 c.c. of urine. The 2-6 is called Long's coefficient.