ACIDOSIS 22 strongly of acetone, and the urine generally gives a marked ferric chloride reaction. Not all these symptoms, however, necessarily occur in any one case. They may be grouped around five heads—nervous, gastric, respiratory, col- lapse, and excretion of ketones, and sometimes one, sometimes another series predominates. It will be seen that in this varied symptom- atology the clinical picture of acid intoxication departs to some extent from that produced experimentally in animals, and it is not quite certain that all the above symptoms are due exclusively to acidosis. The purest type of the condition exists in diabetic coma, which responds, moreover, temporarily at least, to alkaline injec- tions much more rapidly than do any of the others. Types of Acidosis and Acid Intoxica- tion.—From a clinical point of view, we may group cases as follows: — 1. Symptomatic acidosis. 2. Acid intoxication from drugs. 3. Diabetic acidosis. 4. Cyclic vomiting. 5. Delayed chloroform poisoning. 6. Acidosis in infancy. The diiTerent groups overlap to some extent, but in their leading features they are sufficiently distinct from one another. 1. Symptomatic Acidom.—Acetonuria, accom- panied or not by an odour of acetone in the breath, hut not associated with any other symptoms which at present can be referred to acidosis, occurs in a great variety of conditions. It is met with in sepsis, acute pneumonia, fevers of all kinds, appendicitis, peritonitis, gastric ulcer, diphthei'ia, toxic gastro- intestinal disorders, starvation, and indigestion, especially in children. Its occurrence in these cases has been ascribed to organismal toxaemia and auto-intoxication, but the view held by most of those M^ho have paid particular attention to the subject, is that in these, as in other cases, defect in the oxidation of carbohydrates is to blame. 2. Acid Intoxication from Drvgs. — Among drugs which cause acidosis, phloridzin, morphine, and phosphorus may be mentioned. By far the greatest practical interest, however, attaches to the acid intoxication which may result from the administration of sodium salicylate, especially when the drug is given in very large doses. Air hunger is the first danger signal; it indicates a cessation of the salicylate and the free ad- ministration of sodium bicarbonate. Dr. Lees advises that twice as much sodium bicarbonate as salicylate should be given when the latter drug is being freely used, and that constipation should be treated. If these precautions are taken, serious intoxication is unlikely to occui'. 3. Diabetic Acidosis.—The clinical features of diabetic coma are described elsewhere. It is easy to understand why a diabetic is specially liable to acidosis. He takes little carbohydrate, and cannot utilise what little he does take. The greater his intolerance of carbohydrate, the more certain is he to suffer from ketonui'ia; if, however, he can assimilateas much as 80-1 OOgrams of carljohydrate per day, ketonuria will probably remain absent. The inhibition of ketonuria by carbohydrate depends, of course, not on the amount eaten, but on the amount catabolised. When the acetone in the urine amounts to about '5 grams per day, diacetic acid (shown by ferric chloride test) is generally also present. The ketonuria of diabetes, though on the whole similar to that of inanition, differs from it in the following particulars (Noorden):—1. A diabetic patient may tolerate starches in quantities which, in a normal person, would be enough to prevent ketonuria; yet, notwith- standing this, he may develop ketonuria. 2. In a diabetic a change from a mixed to a carbo- hydrate-free diet may cause ketonuria, which does not disappear when carbohydrates are again added to the food. 3. In other cases ketonuria disappears on a strict diet, on accovmt of the improvement in the general condition. 4. Diabetic ketonuria varies, though the diet and catabolism of sugar remain constant; and different persons, on the same diets, and having identical powers of catabolising sugar, exhibit differences in the amount of ketones they eliminate. 4. Cyclic Vomiting. — This has only been recognised as a definite clinical entity within recent years. It is also known as periodic vomiting, vomiting with acetonsemia, and food fever with recuixent gastric catarrh (Eustace Smith). It usually occurs in childhood, from the second or third year and onwards ; it tends to cease spontaneously at puberty, when, it is said, it may be replaced by migraine. The attacks recur at irregular intervals of a few weeks or months. The vomiting, which is the outstanding feature, sets in suddenly, usually in the midst of perfect health. It is projectile, extremely severe and uncontrollable, the smallest quantity of fluid l^eing at once rejected. With this vomiting the child looks extremely ill; he is at once prostrated, the eyes Ijecome hollow, the face has a dusky flush, the tongue is dry, and there is great thirst. The fruity odour of acetone is very evident in the breath, and there is usually also acetonuria. The attacks generally last for five or six days— rarely much longer ;, they are accompanied by very apparent wasting. The -^'omiting ceases as suddenly as it began, and there is, simul- taneously, rapid improvement in the general condition. The appetite returns immediately, there is no sign of indigestion, and recovery is very rapid. In another group of cases the clinical features are somewhat different. The patients are children who suffer from chronic indigestion, and are particularly intolerant of carbohydrates. They are liable to attacks of pyrexia, to urticaria, and to paroxysmal vomiting with