28 ANESTHESIA AND ANAESTHETICS KeGIONAL ANiESTHESIA . . . .31 Local Anmthesia . . . . .31 Venous Ancesihesia . . . .32 Spinal Ancesihesia .... 32 In recent years there has been witnessed a pro- found alteration in the methods of inducing anaesthesia during surgical operations. The reason of this lies in the perfection which has been obtained in the practice of methods of local and regional anesthesia. General Anesthetics. Under this category chloroform and ether still maintain their position as the anaesthetics of choice in major surgical operations, and nitrous oxide and ethyl chloride are the drugs most depended upon when anaesthesia of short duration is required. The trend of popular opinion as to the relative merits of chloroform and ether has altered considerably of late in favour of the use of the latter, and this is especially to be noted in the home of chloro- form, the Edinburgh Medical School. In spite of much advice from without, and of occasional alarming experiences within, the graduate of that School held to the opinion expressed by Lister in 1870, "that the danger of chloroform may be compared not inaptly to that of railway ti'avelling. In both cases the risk incurred by any individual is so small that it does not enter seriously into our calculations, and just as rail- way accidents are generally occasioned by culp- able mismanagement, so death from chloroform is almost invariably due to faulty administration." The explanation of the alteration lies, not in the discovery of new dangers during the actual ad- ministration of the drug, but in the revelation of risks more remote, and to which the term " delayed chloroform poisoning " has been given. Delayed Ancesiketic Poisoning—Delayed Chloro- form Poisoning.—Up to within a few years ago it was generally considered that, though the use of chloroform might give rise to a certain increased degree of responsibility to the operat- ing surgeon during its administration, he was compensated for this by the knowledge that the complications to which it might give rise at a later date were less serious than was the case when ether was the anaesthetic. According to certain observer's, however, this appears not to be correct, and especially in those cases where sepsis is present, the use of chloroform is attended with an increased amount of danger. Delayed chloroform poisoning has been in- vestigated in this country, more especially by Guthrie, Stiles, and M'Donald. In 1894 Guthrie published an article on " Some Fatal After-Effects of Chloroform on Children," and in it he drew attention to a class of case, the clinical characteristics of which were usually pronounced and the pathological features dis- tinct, but the actual cause of death somewhat obscure. The cases all possessed the factor in common that operations under chloroform had been performed. In the majority the operation had been one of no undue severity, but instead of making a rapid recovery the child developed acute delirious mania, uttering shrill, piercing screams at short intervals. Its eyes were dry, the pupils often dilated ; its face usually was flushed, but in some cases pronounced pallor was noticeable. In certain of the cases these symptoms came on directly after the child had been returned to bed; in most they were not noticeable until the evening, and the child was observed to be restless and sleepless and often in a state of wild terror and anxiety. The temperature, which had been subnormal after the operation, had usually now risen to from 101° to 103" Fahrenheit. Consciousness was lost early, and at intervals the child was dull and apathetic. Grating of the teeth was present in some cases. A salient feature of the condi- tion was the occurrence of extremely violent, persistent, and copious vomiting. This vomit- ing occurred even when the child was fed by the rectum. At first, food was returned from the stomach, and thereafter a clear or yellowish fluid, and this in most cases was succeeded by a vomit having the appearance of the dregs of beef-tea. This last Guthrie considered to be specially characteristic of this disease. Only in a very occasional case could it be described as having a "coffee ground" appearance. Death, preceded by coma and exhaustion, usually occurred within from one to nine hours. The type of breathing was like that which is common in cases of death from gradual respiratory failure. The inspiration was spasmodic, irregular, and gasping, with gradually increasing intervals between the acts, until the last breath was drawn; while expiration throughout was in- effective and attended by little or no action of the extra expiratory muscles. The pathological examination of the organs after death in these cases showed evidences of the widespread opera- tion of an intense poison, as manifested by the degeneration of the parenchymatous tissue in many organs. This was especially observed in the liver, where an extreme degree of fatty degeneration was constantly present. The kidneys usually showed a similar appearance, but less pronounced in degree. The heart in certain of the cases showed fatty degeneration of its muscle fibres. No other pathological find- ing was at all constant. The most careful exam- ination failed to detect the presence of sepsis or fat embolism. There was also no evidence that death had been caused by the absorption of any of the various antiseptics used during the treat- ment, such as carbolic acid or iodoform. The ultimate conclusion to which Guthrie was driven as to the cause of death in these cases was that it was due to the after-effects