154 FAITH-HEALING Faith - Healing^. — Healing by faith- cure, i.e. a cure wrought by means of " the prayer of faith" (vide Bible, James v. 15). It has been described from the medical sta);dpoint by Sir Clifford AUbutt (Brit. Med. Jotim., i. for 1910, p. 1453), by Sir Henry Morris {Ibid., p. 1457), and by Professor William Osier {Ibid., p. 1470); and, from the standpoint of the Church (Anglican and Catholic), by the Rev. Francis IBoyd {Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1910, p. 464), the Right Rev. Francis Aidan Gasquet {Ibid., p. 465), and the Rev. Herbert Thurston, S.J. {Ibid., p. 467). See also leading article in the Lancet (ii. for 1910, p. 320). Familial.—Peculiar to or belonging to the family, e.g.familial characters or properties, those which are possessed by the family of one or other parent; familial inheritance, the remarkable tendency which exists for certain traits in a family {e.g. the Hapsburg lip), to re- appear generation after generation notwith- standing constant marriage with a stock which does not possess these particular traits \ familial diseases, such as albinism. Daltonism, and haemophilia. Fasting' Cure.—A form of treatment introduced to the public in a book entitled The True Science of Living, by Dr. Dewey of the University of Michigan ; it is founded on the idea that diseases are due to eating, and consists in abstaining from food for periods of from two to three weeks at a time. See Lancet, i. for 1908, p. 1028; Riitimeyer (.^ew^m^i^. / innere Med., xxx. p. 233, 1909 ; Penny, Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1909, p. 1414). Fat Disease.—See Diabetes {Diabetes and Obesity). Fat PhanarosiS.—A term applied by G. Klemperer {Deutsche med. Wochnschr., xxxv. pp. 89-92, 1909) to the rendering visible of pre- viously fixed fat in the condition of fatty degeneration of the kidney, spleen, lung, and nervous tissue, as described by H. G. Wells {Chemical Pathology, 334 fF., 1907). Favus.—Favus of the scalp should be treated by X-rays in exactly the same way as described under tinea capitis ; but in this dis- ease the application of X-rays is essential if the disease is at all extensive. As the disease itself causes permanent baldness, one does not hesi- tate to reapply the rays soon should the first exposiu'c not cause epilation. Felon.—A whitlow under or near the nail ; paronychia. Fermenlactyi Tablets.— A pro- prietary preparation, described as containing a pure lactic ferment prepared from the special bacillus of Bulgarian milk, and said to prevent intestinal putrefaction by introducing into the bowel bacilli which are antagonistic to those which attack proteins, and so, according to Metchnikoff's theory, to delaj^ senility. See Reports in Lancet, i. for 1908, p. 650 ; Journ, Amer. Med. Assoc., lii. p. 397, 1909. Ferro-SiliCOn.—An alloy of iron and silicon used in the manufacture of certain grades of steel; it gives ofi'poisonous fumes, and has caused deaths in connection with its trans- port and storage. See Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1910, p. 269. Fibroblast. — A growing connective- tissue cell which enters into the formation of granulation tissue, of thrombi, etc. Fi brogiia Fi bri Is.—Connective-tissue fibrils present in fibromata {e.g. in spindle cell sarcomas or fibro-sarcomas). See Adami, Pathol- ogy, i. p. 711 (Fibroma), 1910. Fibroin.—A simple protein, albuminoid, or sclero-protein, insoluble in neutral solvents, forming a constituent of connective tissue. Fibrolysin. — Fibrolysin is the name given by Merck of Darmstadt to a preparation of thiosinamine. It is prepared from oil of mustard, and occurs in colourless rhombic crystals of bitter taste and garlic odour. It is a therapeutic remedy that is at present being widely used in cases where it is desired to soften cicatricial tissue. Von Hebra in 1892 published some of the results he had obtained by the therapeutic use of thiosinamine. He employed it in 15 per cent, alcoholic solution as an injection for the treatment of lupus and cutaneous scars. Beneficial results followed, but the treatment was open to this objection, that the injection of the alcoholic solution was exceedingly painful: the drug was unstable and insoluble in water. These drawbacks have been remedied by the modification sug- gested by Dr. Felix Mendel, of Essen, who, by comliining one molecule of thiosinamine with a 1^ molecule of salicylate of soda, foi'med a white crystal powder, to which the name of fibrolysin has been given. This substance is absolutely non-iri-itant, so that injections of it are consequently painless and are found to be harmless. The preparation is put up in aqueous solution of 15 per cent, strength, in sterile glass ampullae, each containing 2'3 c.c. This represents '2 gram (3 grs.) of pure thiosinamine. Physiological Action of Fibrolysin.— The injection of fibrolysin into the tissues is followed by a temporary pronounced diminu- tion of the leucocytes in the blood. This