SYMPHYSIOTOMY AND PUBIOTOMY 358 the needle in position. It is difficult to express a preference ; probably the operator will be advised to use a needle with which he is familiar. Berry Hart {Trans. Edin. Obstet. Soc, xxix. p. 109, 1904) used a large sinus probe with an eye in it. Whilst there is still much discussion going on in current literature regarding the best method of performing pubiotomy, the most important matter for decision is whether the opei'ation is to be preferred to symphysiotomy. The following advantages are commonly claimed for hebosteotomy or pubiotomy. It is said to be easier and to be capable of being more rapidly performed, and this would seem to be correct if the operator has taken care to study the topography of the pubic region {see Tandler and Sellheim's articles, Zentralb. f. Gyndk., xxix. pp. 889, 1097, 1905). The natural sup- ports of the bladder, urethra, and vaginal walls are less interfered with than in symphysiotomj^, and extension of the operation wound into the vagina is less likely to occur. It has also been affirmed that there is less risk of haemorrhage ; but there is much difference of opinion upon this point, Rosthorn having lost a patient from bleeding {see Williams's Obstetrics, p. 459, 1908), and Jessen {Zentralb. f. Gyudk., xxx. p. 252, 1906) having had to finish by doing symphysiotomy after having begun a hebotomy. The wound does not communicate with the vagina, and the operation can therefore be performed in septic cases with less risk of general infection ; unfortunately, however, tears communicating with the vagina may occur. It is claimed that a section through bone heals more quickly, safely, and thoroughly than one through a joint; but it must be re- membered in accepting this advantage that the symphysis pubis is not an easily infected joint like the knee. The pelvis is said to be per- manently enlarged after pubiotomy (Sellheim, Monatssch. f. Geburtsh. u. Gyndk., xxiii. p. 362, 1906), and there is evidence that subse- quent labours have been easier, but, of course, it would have to be clearly shown that the size and shape of the foetal head were the same in the cases which are thus contrasted. The urethra is not so apt to be wounded in pubi- otomy, and the bladder is less likely to be injured; but whilst this is true of the time when the section is being made, it is not so certainly true of the extraction period (Bar, Bull. Soc. d'obstet. de Paris, viii. p. 76, 1905). It is claimed that the mortality is less with 2)ubiotomy than symphysiotomy ; but this can hardly be regarded yet as an established fact. Carefully selected cases may shoAv little or no maternal mortality, but when large numbers are considered it may be as high as 5'6 per cent. (Maier, Diss. inau<j. (Tiibingen), 1907). The dangers from haemorrhage, septic infection of the wound, lacerations or perforations of the bladder and urethra, and subsequent vulvar and vaginal hsematomata are real; among the earliest cases there were two deaths from sepsis (Baumm, Alonatssch.f. Geburtsh. u. Gyndk., xvii. p. 632, 1903), and one from the late effects of chloroform apparently (Berry Hart, loc. cit.), and there have been fatal terminations from haemorrhage and other causes (Hammerschlag, Zentralb. f. Gyndk., xxxi. p. 1001, 1907); and Seitz {Milnch. ined. Wochensch., liii. p. 1993, 1906) is of opinion that it is much better to publish the dangers of the operation and its drawbacks than to be loud in its praises, and does not think that pubiotomy is yet to be recommended to the general practitioner. Before the future of this operation is fore- casted, reference may be made to what has been called prophylactic pubiotomy, i.e. sec- tion of the pubic bone performed during the pregnancy of a patient suffering from pelvic contraction. It is claimed that in this way the woman is saved from the double strain of labour and a serious operatiA'e procedure, and that the injuries have time to heal befoi'e labour comes on. Gauss {Zentralb. f. Gyndk., xxxi. p. 857, 1907) thinks that the operation should not be done earlier than the thirty-fifth week of pregnancy; and he reports the case of a primipara of 19 j^ears, whose pehas was generally contracted with a con- jugata vera of between 7*4 and 7"9 cm., upon whom he performed pubiotomy (by the open method) at the ninth month ; she was delivered spontaneously of a living child, weighing 3000 grams at the full term. It is doubtful if this prophylactic procedure will commend itself to many obstetricians ; but it is an interesting development, pointing, as it does, to a desire for earlier recognition of such pelvic contrac- tions as may be expected to lead to difficult parturition. It may be added that hebotomy has been performed at least once (by R. H. Pomeroj') for impaction of the Ijreech in a justo-minor pelvis {Amer. Jovrn. Obstet., Ivii. p. 511, 1908), surely a very exceptional indication. In endeavouring to estimate the future of pubiotomy, it will be well to neglect the views at present being expressed in Germanj', and take those of such an American obstetrician as Whitridge Williams. This author, while favourably disposed towards the operation, is critical, and would restrict the employment of the operation in various ways {Obstetrics, p. 459, 1908). " Pubiotomy is not indicated in cases in which the conjugata vera measures less than 7 cms. Accordingly, it scarcely enters into competition with Cajsarean section, except for the broadened relative indication. ... I feel that one may look forwai'd to pubiotomy practically displacing Caesarean sec- tion in the so-called ' border-line ' cases, as it enables one to subject the patient to the test