381 TYPHOID FEVER technique. Bacilli can always be found in the j blood before a positive Widal test is obtained ; ' in some cases they have 1)een cultivated from it j during the incubation period. They disappear i from the blood as the temperature falls. The bacilli are exci'eted by the liver into the bile, [ by which they pass over into the gall bladder and bowel; in both these structures they set up local lesions—cholecystitis and ulcers. In the bowel some die, some are expelled in the stools; probably they do not multiply. They are not found in the fieces during the early stage of the disease, and can be regularly demonstrated only when ulceration is estab- lished. On post-mortem examination they are most abundant in the duodenum, and diminish in number as we pass down the intestine ; they are not found in the rectum. Relapses are due to reinvasion of the blood stream. On these facts, the pathology of the disease may be briefly stated as follows : — Typhoid bacilli enter the blood stream directly (possibly by the pharynx or stomach), and multiply there during the incubation period. At this time their presence can sometimes be demonstrated directlj'^, or, before they themselves can be isolated, their products can be detected by the precipitin test (Fornet). At or before the onset of the symptoms, they enter the gall bladder and bowel, ultimately set up cholecystitis and ulceration of the Peyer's patches, and are excreted in the feeces. The symptoms of the disease are caused by the destruction of enor- mous numbers of bacilli in the blood and liberation of their endotoxins. When the bacilli invade the body locally {e.g. in typhoid abscess or meningitis) the liberation of the endotoxins does not cause the general symptoms of typhoid fever. Blood Cultures in Typhoid.—Kayser's ox-bile medium is used. Peabody ^ procures 1-2 c.cm. blood from a puncture of the lobe of the ear, and adds it to 5 c.c. sterile ox-bile, then incubating for fifteen hours. Microscopic examination of a drop may show the organ- isms, otherwise a tube of coagulated serum is inoculated with the bile and incubated for several hours, when the motile bacilli can be found in the water of condensation. 2. Clinical Syndrome " Typhoid Fever " due to more than one organism. — the existence of so-called "paratyphoid" has now been recognised for a number of years, and the position now taken up by many authorities is that («) a disease clinically indistinguishable from typhoid fever may be caused by several varieties of organism, and {h) both the Eberth's bacillus, and the other organisms to be referred to, may cause local diseases—e.g. meningitis, cholera-nostras, etc. — which have no resem- blance to typhoid fever. Staiibli,^ in discussing the question of paratyphoid, gives as causes of the typhoid sjmiptom complex — Eberth's bacillus, h. paratyphoid A, h. paratyphoid B, and the bacillus enteritidis of Gartner, which is closely allied to the paratyphoid B. Brion and Kayser * found the b. jiavosepticxmi (an> organism of the pyocyaneous group) in some cases. Thus some paratyphoid bacilli closely resemble those which give rise to certain forms of meat poisoning. There are three main forms- of meat poisoning — (1) Botulism, in which nervous symptoms predominate, due to the toxins produced in preserved meat, sausages, etc., by a non-pathogenic anaerobe, b. Botulinus. (2) Acute diarrhoea due to putrid meat, from b. proteus. (3) Meat infection due to the presence of b. enteritidis. It may cause epidemics of acute gastric enteritis or " typhoid"; in some cases the symptoms of the latter succeed the former. In the one case the infection is mainly local ; in the other, general. As a rule, epidemics of "typhoid" due to b. paratyphosis, are milder than those due to Eberth's bacillus. It might seem as though this departure from- an insistence on the specific nature of typhoid fever, and the return from the bacteriological to the clinical definition of the disease, is rather' a retrograde step, but this is only apparent. The difficulty is that only by careful bacterio- logical examination is it possible to distinguish between the different infections causing clinical typhoid. Even the agglutination test is of little use on account of the occurrence of "group agglutination" {vide Immunity, Diag- nosis, p. 193). It is, therefore, impossible to- establish a clearly defined group of " para- typhoid " infections by reference to the agglu- tinating power of the patient's serum, and it is equally impossible to do so from the post- mortem appearances. Courmont and Lesceur urge that the words " paratyphoid," etc., should be allowed to drop. The Widal test being inapplicable to the diff"erentiation of the various typho-colon infections, the diagnosis should be made from blood cultures, on which an etio- logical classification can be based. Transmission of the Infection of Typhoid. Flies and Dust.—There is no doubt that the- infection of typhoid may be conveyed both by flies and by dust. In the South African War both these factors played an important part in the spread of the disease. The bacilli may simply adhere to the limbs of flies, or may be swal- loAved by them and subsequently deposited in the excreta. It is stated that the bacilli may live in the body of the fly for more than three weeks. Typhoid bacilli soon perish if they are dried, but where dust storms are frequent, as was the case in South Africa, some organisms may survive and be deposited on food in this way. Typhoid Carriers.—As has been stated above, typhoid bacilli, after entering the blood stream, are excreted by the liver, and some penetrate