SYMPHYSIOTOMY AND PCJBIOTOMY 356 looked upon in the future as typical. All other methods hitherto used in the treatment of labour in contracted pelvis should be looked upon as atypical." When it is borne in the mind that the atj^pical methods of treatment to which Schauta refers include craniotomj^ on the dead as well as on the living child and the induction of premature labour, and that he says that " the application of forceps above the brim and prophylactic turning should, if possible, be entirely remoAed from the list," it will be evident at once how far distant German obstetric theor}' and practice have re- moved themselves from British and American. Schauta speaks of the time in the futiu'e when the rules he has laid down shall be generally adopted as the " golden age of the treatment of labour in contracted pelvis"; and, truly, if the ideal method of dealing with difficult labours is to be by section (abdominal or pelvic) rather than by dilatation, and if the obstetrician of the next generation is to choose the knife rather than the forceps, we may join with him in looking for such an age, but with less enthusiasm in the outlook. In the mean- time there are at least two circumstances which militate against any such wholesale adoption of the cutting procedures, two conditions which Schauta admits must be fulfilled before sym- physiotomy or Ca3sarean section can be per- formed, viz. " the patient must reach the expert in an absolutely aseptic condition with- out any obstetrical interference of any kind having been made," and the consent of the patient must be obtained. Schauta seems to doubt whether the patient has any right to refuse, and says that she claims no such right in the case of gynecological operations ; but, again, if this be so, it simply demonstrates the deep-seated difterences which exist between Continental and British practice. The method of enlarging the pelvic capacitj^ now commonly employed diflers considerablj'^ from that in use when the article on Sym- physiotomy appeared in the Encyclopedia and Dictionary of Medicine (Vol. V. p. 297). At that time symphysiotomy, in the strict sense of the term, was going out of favour ; it had been introduced and recommended with extra- ordinary fervour, but the first enthusiasm had subsided, its difficulties were recognised, its limitations were defined, its dangers were known and its inconvenient after-effects had been experienced ; the circumstances were pro- pitious for the advent of a new method, and the new method came, division of the bone (hebotomy, pubiotomy, pelvitomy, or heboste- otomy) taking the place of division of the joint (symphysiotomy). As early as 1902 there were signs of the coming change. Zweifel {Centralb. f. Gyndk., xxvi. p. 321, 1902) admitted that there was serious opposition to symphysiotomy in Ger- many based upon its dangers, and thought that these might be lessened by drainage with tubes and per vaginam of the prevesical space (cavum Retzii). Ayers {Amer. Journ. Obstet., xxxvi. p. 1, 1897 ; Mew York. Jtled. Journ., Ixxv. p. 629, 1902), who had introduced the sub- cutaneous method of performing symphysi- otomy, was able thereby to report good results, but he allowed that the growing prejudice against the operation was founded upon dangers which really existed. Buist {Journ. Obstet. and Gyncec. Brit. Emp., ii. p. 32, 1902), who used Ayers's subcutaneous method, showed that the operation of division of the symphysis pubis could be carried out in domestic practice and so made more generally applicable; but in the same year Sandstein {Trnng. Edin. Obstet. Soc, xxvii. p. 68, 1902) published his experimental study of the pelvic changes produced by separation of the pubic bones in symphysiotomy, which demonstrated that the increase in pelvic capacity was due more to the movement downwards than to the rotation outward, that a separation of 6 cm. was all that could be safely allowed, and that the gain in the antero-posterior diameter thus obtained was only 1 cm., and that, therefore, the indications for the operation were some- what narrow, while its dangers were real, Tissier's observations on the after-histories of patients upon whom symphysiotomy had been performed were far from encouraging (Bull. Soc. d'obstet. de Paris, 19th Feb. 1903). Interest in symphysiotomy was greatly lessened, and the first wave of enthusiasm had passed, so that, as Munro Kerr has put it {Operative Midwifery, p. 375, 1908), "it appeared as if history were going to repeat itself, and the operation were again to be forgotten." In 1903, however, interest in pelvic section was again aroused by the proposal of Gigli {Centralb. f. Gyndk., xxvi. p. 1298, 1902; Bull. Soc. d'obstet. de Paris, vi. p. 68, 1903) and of Van de Velde {Centralb. f. Gyndk., xxvii. p. 969, 1902 ; Nederl. Tijdschr. v. Geneesk., 2 R. xxxix, d. 1, p. 1303, 1903; Wien. klin. Wochensch., xiv. p. 847, 1903) to divide not the joint but the bone of the pelvis, to perform what is now known as hebotomy, pubiotomy, pubotomy, hebosteotomy, lateral section of the pubes, ischio-pubiotomj', lateral pelvitomy, or extra- median .symphysiotomy. Gigli, indeed, had proposed section of the pubic bone in 1893, and had invented the flexible wire saw named after him {Ann. di ostet. e ginec, xv. p. 557, 1893 ; xvi. p. 649, 1894), and Bonardi (in 1897), Calderini (in 1899), Van de Velde (in 1901), and Gigli himself (in 1902) had carried out the procedure successfully ; but with regard to the first suggestion of the operation we have to go as far back as 1786, when John Aitken of Edin- burgh {Priticiples of Midwifery, 3rd ed., p. 83) proposed " sawing through the two rami of the