350 SURGERY, ASEPSIS IN ■are no angles in which dust can lodge, for all the corners are rounded ; the floor has a slope so that fluids can run towards an escape pipe or drain, which facilitates the washing of the place by means preferably of a hose pipe ; the fittings are all of metal, of marble, or of glass; the operating table, instrument cabinet, table for ligatures and sutures, the sisters' table (for lotions, etc.), the sterilisers, the boxes for dress- ings, and sometimes even the spectators' gallery, all run easily on wheels ; the lighting is from a large north window and the roof, and by means of electric light so arranged as to be brought close to the field of operation ; and the heating is largely by hot water or steam pipes, and to some extent also by warm filtered air, whilst the vitiated air is drawn out by means of an electric fan. If gas can be entirely excluded so much the better. The room in which the operator and his assistants prepare themselves is provided with self - emptying basins, supplied with taps with long handles, which can be turned on and oft' by the elbow. All the doors into the theatre are swinging ones, so as to obviate handling during ingress or egress. Such are the conditions found in the London Hospital, but very similar arrange- ments prevail elsewhere. In Nursing Homes the operator must be ■content with less elaborate preparations for the attainment of asepsis, and with still less in private houses. Indeed, it is problematical whether strict asepsis can be obtained in the patient's own dwelling, although Treves and Hutchinson {Manual of Operative Surgery, i. p. 37, 1909) say : " Provided that the greatest <;are is exercised, there is no reason why as complete asepsis should not be secured in the patient's room as in the most elaborately fitted hospital theatre." Of course the house itself must be in a sanitary condition, and the patient should not sleep the previous night in the room in which the operation is to take place. The preparing of the room (removal of unnecessary furniture, of curtains and hangings, scrubbing of floor, brushing down of walls, dusting, etc.) should be done several hours before the room is required. The carpet may be lifted, but an easier plan is to cover it with waterproof, drugget, or a sheet. Ventilation should be good, and an open fire is most useful, for the after-treatment will be carried out in this room. Even when the surgeon is conscious of weak points in his aseptic precautions, he may recollect that in private houses, especially in the country, the bacteria causing wound- infection are not so common as in hospitals. The Operating Table.—The operating table is now a much more elaborate piece of furni- ture than it was some years ago, before, for instance, the Trendelenburg position came to be so frequently used in abdominal operations. In a private house a narrow and strong kitchen table may still be employed, and a chair be placed upon to improvise the Trendelenburg position ; but portable tables can now be had, and some surgeons prefer to take their table with them to their patient's dwelling. Comyns Berkeley has designed such a portable table {Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1909, p. 154). In Hospitals and Nursing Homes more or less elaborate tables are used. They should not be too complicated, which means they should not be designed with too ambitious a scope. The head and foot rests should work smoothly, and so should the more complicated apparatus for placing the patient in the lithotomy or the Trendelenburg posture. The whole working should be tested just before the operation, so as to avoid unseemly and disconcerting struggles after the operator is ready to begin. The price of a " comparatively inexpensive table " is given as ,£25. Preparation of the Patient.—Even in small operations it is well for the patient to spend a few days in bed before he actually submits himself to the knife ; the bodily functions (bowels, kidneys, skin) are then regulated, the diet is limited in amount and made more similar in quality to that which will be neces- sary after the operation, and the patient is accustomed to invalids' ways. The bowels ought to be thoroughly evacuated by a purga- tive the day before the operation, and an enema should be given in the early morning to ensure the lower bowel being quite empty just before the operative procedure is com- menced. No breakfast should be given, and, therefore, an early hour (8 to 10 A.M.) should be chosen, if at all possible. But the chief preparatory measure is concerned with the skin of the operation area. Most operators are agreed that the site of operation, if a hair- covered one, should be shaved, and that it should be well washed with soap and water, a nail brush being used unless the skin is too tender; but opinions differ as to further pro- cedure ; indeed, all are not at one as to the washing with soap and water. A common procedure is to remove the fatty matter from the skin with ether, and again to wash with soap and water ; next an antiseptic solution is applied to the skin on gauze or wool swabs. The antiseptic employed may be car- bolic acid (1 in 20), or bichloride of mercury (1 in 500), or mercuric potassium iodide (1 in 500), the solution being an alcoholic one. Treves and Hutchinson specially recommend the last named (mercuric potassium iodide solution) as being easily prepared (with recti- fied or methylated spirit), less toxic than the bichloride of mercury, having no corroding effect on plated instruments, and not irritating the skin itself. After these applications, by which it is claimed that the skin is made really aseptic, have been made, a compress of moist