SLEEPING by Dr. Greig, arrived in Uganda to study sleeping sickness, and were met there by Castellani's report of his discovery of the trypanosome in the cerebro-spinal fluid. The subsequent work of the Commission, whose report is summarised here, conclusively settled the nature of sleeping sickness. 1. The cerebro-spinal fluid of every case of sleeping sickness taken by lumbar puncture during life contains trypanosomes. 2. Trypano- somes are found in the cerebro-spinal fluid of cases of sleeping sickness occurring outside Uganda. 3. Cerebro-spinal fluid from diseases other than sleeping sickness does not contain trypanosomes. 4. The peripheral blood of all cases of sleeping sickness contains trypano- somes. 5. The trypanosome of sleeping sick- ness and the trypanosome of trypanosomiasis are probably the same ; if confined to the blood they give rise to slight fever, whereas if they reach the cerebro-spinal fluid they cause sleep- ing sickness. Trypanosome fever is therefore an early stage of sleeping sickness. 6. In an area infected with sleeping sickness a consider- able proportion of apparently healthy natives harbour trypanosomes ; in non-sleeping sickness areas not a single trypanosome is found. 7. When monkeys are inoculated with the blood or cerebro-spinal fluid from trypanosomiasis or sleeping sickness, they manifest symptoms of the disease, and trypanosomes can be recovered from their blood and cerebro-spinal fluid. Sleeping sickness was introduced into Uganda from the Congo in 1900 and spread widely round the north shore of Lake Nyanza, being roughly limited to a 20-mile radius round the coast. The distribution, taken along with the nature of the parasite, led the Commission to conjecture that the infection might be conveyed by a biting insect, and on the analogy of Nagana they suspected a tsetse fly. The distribution of a species of tsetse (glossina palpalis) was found to correspond with that of the disease. Feeding experiments then showed that the tsetse fly could convey the trypanosome to monkeys. Detection of Trypanosoma Gambiense.— The parasite is present in such small number in the peripheral blood as to render its detec- tion in ordinary smears very difficult. Bruce adopted the method of repeated centrifugalisa- tion, using about 10 c.c. of blood, to detect it. The greatest number of trypanosomes were found as a rule in the sediment of the third centrifugalisation ; in this living trypanosomes can usually be seen with a low power. Details of the trypanosome are best brought out by Leishman's stain (vide p. 66), which is allowed to act for 10-15 minutes. The macronucleus appears red, the micronucleus black, the flag- ellum red, and the body protoplasm blue. When once the symptoms of sleeping sickness have developed the parasite is comparatively readily SICKNESS 339 detected in the deposit obtained by centrifug- ing 10-15 c.c. cerebro-spinal fluid for half an hour. Enlargement of the lymph glands is an early sign of infection, and Greig made the important observation that the organism could be recovered with great ease from a drop of the gland juice removed by a hypodermic syringe. Nature of Infection.—The trypanosome is introduced into the blood by the bite of an infected tsetse fly (glossina palpalis, and possibly other species), but not by other suctorial flies. It first reaches the lymph glands, causes a general adenitis, and thence enters the general blood and lymph stream. It lives in the fluids of the body, and does not enter the cells. In the later stage of the disease it gains access to the cerebro-spinal fluid. The trypanosome reproduces itself in the body by longitudinal fission. It does not leave the body by any of the natural channels, but is withdrawn by the bite of the tsetse. After one of these flies has fed on an infected subject, trypanosomes can be seen in its pro- boscis, and at a later period (up to 118 hours) they are still active in its stomach, but after 140 hours no live parasites can be seen. They do not undergo metamorphosis in the glossina, but apparently die, and are excreted by the intestine. The trypanosome rapidly loses its virulence in the glossina, and an animal cannot be infected by the bite of a fly longer than two days after the latter has fed. T. gambiense has not yet been grown on artificial media; it is rapidly destroyed by a temperature of 45° C. Blood containing the organism loses its virulence forty-eight hours aftei' withdrawal from the body. T. gambiense is pathogenic to monkeys, cats, dogs, guinea- pigs, rats, mice, and rabbits, but on the whole the disease is more chronic than in man ; sheep, horses, and cattle are very slightly susceptible. It was believed (on the analogy of what obtains in Nagana) that the game in a sleeping- sickness district harboured the trypanosome, and that the tsetse fly conveyed it from them to patients as well as from man to man. Koch has recently ascribed special importance to crocodiles as reservoirs of trypanosome in- fection. According to the Ninth Report of the Sleeping Sickness Commission of the Royal Society, however, there is no ground for supposing such to be the case. There is reason to suppose that in man a second phase in the development of the try- panosome occurs, and a special line of treatment is based on this supposition (vide infra). Symptoms.—The symptoms of the disease were well known before its cause was dis- covered, but since the parasite has been recognised it has become possible to make the diagnosis before the characteristic symptoms develop. After the organism enters the body a considerable time elapses before it gains