132 ECTOPIC PREGNANCY capsular is. That it is not decidua is proved by the presence of muscular fibres in it. It is very likely that as in the uterus so in the tube the fertilised ovum, by the action of its proliferating trophoblast, penetrates the epithe- lium of the mucous membrane ; in the tube it further bores its way down into the muscular layer, an occurrence which is rare in uterine pregnancy, but not unknown although always pathological. Of course it is possible that the ovum m&y sometimes reach its deep position in the tube wall by entering a diverticulum, but this must be rare, and it is generally conceded that it is by destruction of maternal tissue that the trophoblast penetrates the tubal tissues and carries the ovum in amongst the muscular fibres. It is probably by the same action of the trophoblast upon the maternal blood-vessels that communication is established between the ovum and the blood of the mother. The so- called "deportation of villi," or of pieces of their epithelial covering, is, therefore, not only possible but probable in all pregnancies, whether intra- or extra-uterine ; for it has been shown that the action of the trophoblast (especially Langhans's cells) in opening into maternal vessels is the method by which the ovum is brought into contact with the maternal blood in normal pregnancy. Decidual reaction in the vessel walls and the invasion of these walls with trophol)last cells are both regarded as common occurrences, and may be seen in the same tube wall (Schambacher, Zeitsch. f. Gehirtsh. u. Gyndk., xlviii. p. 428, 1902-3). At the same time, great care has to be taken, in expressing an opinion on the subject, not to confuse Langhans's cells with true decidual ones. In connection with the embedding of the ovum in the tube wall, it is more correct to speak of the destructive action of the tropho- blast than of the villi, for the former has bur- rowing powers in its early stage when it consists simply of syncytium and Langhans's cellular layer, and before the mesoblast has, by sending projections into it, formed the villi. Further, with the disappearance of Langhans's cells about the sixth week, the destructive or pseudo- malignant action on the maternal structures probably ceases ; the later developments of the gestation sac in the tube wall must thereafter be due to other factors. To sum up, it is probable that the phenomena of pregnancy in the tube wall, which diflfer from those met with in the uterine wall, are due not so much to any difference in the action of the trophoblast or villi upon the tissues of the tube, but rather to the nature and extent of the tissues of the wall; in the tube there is not the thick layer of mucous membrane which exists in the uterus, and connective tissue is scanty, so that the trophoblast comes into contact with and has to make its way into muscle. The third question in the problem of tubal gestation relates to the cause and mode of rupture of the wall of the tube. The discovery of the submucous or intra-muscular position of the gestation sac in tul)al pregnancy has thrown some light upon this question, and it brings two apparently different occurrences into line, viz. tubal rupture and tubal abortion. The latter is so important that a special paragraph is devoted to it (vide infra), but it may be stated here that the problem has been greatlj? simplified by the recognition of the fact that tubal abortion must necessarily be preceded by rupture, by internal rupture, of the gestation sac before the ovum can be free in the tubal lumen or find its way out of the tubal ostium. If internal rupture of the capsule of the sac do not occui', then external rupture may take place, or the wall of the tube may give way in such a position as to enable the ovum to pass between the layers of the broad ligament and become intra-ligamentary. To take the latter occur- rence first, it may be said that the recent work done in this department seems to show that intra-ligamentary rupture is comparatively rare ; but Andrews, in his admirable synopsis of the whole subject of tubal gestation (Journ. Obstet. and Gynmc. Brit. Evq)., iii. p. 419, 1903; ix. p. 469, 1906), is unable to assign any satis- factory explanation for this rarity. It may possibly be connected with an absence of decidual reaction in the connective tissue of the broad ligament, although this remains to be demonstrated. In respect of external rup- ture of the tube into the peritoneal cavity, various causes have been alleged. There can be very little doubt that traumatism (e.g. a bimanual examination under an anaesthetic) may efi'ect it, and such a possibility must, of course, be borne in mind in connection with the diagnosis or attempted diagnosis of ectopic gestation. In most cases, however, it is not external but internal causes which lead to rupture. Of the causes inherent in the tube itself we may name the destructive action of the ti'ophoblast of the ovum, the hemorrhage into the tube wall, and contractions of the muscle of the tube. In early ruptures {i.e. those before or at the seventh week) the first-named factor (destructive or burrowing action of the tropho- blast) would appear to be the common agent; it may act directly and cause perforation of the muscular and peritoneal coats of the tube, or it may lead to the rupture indirectly by causing perforation of a blood-vessel, effusion of blood, consequent stretching and final bursting of the tube. Later ruptures (after the seventh week) are probably to be ascribed more often to such mechanical causes as stretching of the sac wall from htemorrhage into it, aided or not by contractions of the tube itself, than to the destructive action of trophoblast cells. There is a tendency at present to disregard simple stretching of the tube by the growing ovum as