60 BLADDER, FEMALE Displacements 61 Cystitis 62 Literature 63 Many of the advances which have been made during the past quinquennium in the diagnosis and treatment of diseases of the bladder in the female apply also to maladies of the bladder in the male; they may be consulted under other headings. But it will be well to gather together here (in a separate article) some of the most noteworthy of them, and especially those which have a special bearing upon gynae- cology. Examination.—Before any instrument (sound or catheter) is passed into the bladder, careful cleansing of the external parts, and especially of the meatus urinarius, should be carried out. This may be done by means of a number of cotton-wool pledgets soaked in an antiseptic lotion or simply sterilised. When the patient is the subject of leucorrhoea, this cleansing must be very thorough, for there is evidence that organisms from the original discharge may find their way into the bladder and set up cystitis (Porter, Trans. Edin. Obstet. Soc, xxxi. p. 92, 1906). The patient is placed in the dorsal or left lateral position, and the sound (shorter than that used in the male and less curved), which has been sterilised by boiling, is introduced by sight into the urethra, and the bladder cavity is carefully examined. If the catheter be employed, in order to obtain urine for microscopical, chemical, or bacteriological examination, then the following precautions should be taken. A glass catheter, which has been sterilised by boiling and kept ready for use in a sterile solution, is taken; over its distal end is a short sheath of indiarubber tubing which can be easily I'emoved after its introduction; the part so covered is grasped by the operator with his fore and middle fingers (which may be provided with sterile rubl^er fingei-cots, oi' may wear a three-fingered rubber glove) and passed into the bladder; the rubl^er sheath is then Avithdrawn and the urine allowed to flow into the sterile receptacle (the first few drops being rejected). After it has been emptied by the catheter the holding capacity of the bladder may be deter- mined by hydrostatic dilatation: normal saline solution, at a temperature of 100° F., is used; it is kept in a graduated glass jar or douche-can ; hy means of a catheter and tubing it is run into the bladder till it is uncomfortably full; then the level of the fluid in the reservoir is compared with what it was before, and so the quantity which has passed in is estimated. It must not be forgotten that simple palpation of the female bladder is very easy, and that it yields much important information ; it is best done by the vagino-abdominal touch. Cystoscopy was dealt with in a special ai'ticle in the Encyrlo- pedia ami Dictionary (ii. p. 264); but the few addi- tional facts to be recorded about this method of bladder-examination may be placed here. There is perhaps a tendency to limit the use of the cystoscope to a greater extent on account of the risk of infecting the bladder, and a contra- indication is found in the presence of acute urethritis, especially when it is of a gonorrhoeal nature. Simple cystitis and that following gynaecological operations often clear up with the administration of medicines (e.g. urotropin) and the free administration of water to drink, and do not require cystoscopy. For the ex- amination, the patient is placed in the semi- prone position, in the elevated dorso-sacral, in the Trendelenburg, or in the genu-pectoral position. Kelly {vide Kelly and Noble, Gyne- cology, i. p. 444, 1907) prefers the last-named posture, the patient being on her knees and chest, not on her knees and elbows; and cer- tainly one gets the best view of the interior of the bladder thus, only it is necessary to remember its irksomeness, and to shorten as far as possible the time during which the patient is kept in it. A few drops of a 5 per cent, or 10 per cent, solution of cocaine are introduced into the urethra, which is then dilated by conical dilators, but not beyond 16 or 18 millimetres. Then the Kelly speculum (or the Nitze cystoscope if it be preferred) is introduced into the bladder; air then rushes in, ballooning the bladder (Kelly recommends previous ballooning of the rectum and vagina to prevent displacement backward of the bladder at this stage), and light from a head mirror is thrown into the cavity, which is then inspected in its various parts. Residual urine may be removed with Snell's evacuator (or Ashton's modification of it, vide Ashton's Gyve- cology, p. 622, 1905), or with small balls of absorbent cotton introduced with alligator-jaw forceps. Kelly's ureteral searcher (a long deli- cate sound) may be used to find the openings of the ureters (the left first); the interureteric ridge is a useful landmark in cystoscopy in looking for the orifices of the ureters, and must not be confounded with another fold called by Kelly the vesico-uterine (because it corre- sponds with the vesico-uterine sulcus outside the bladder), which lies further away from the internal urethral orifice (Kelly and Noble, op. cit., i. p. 448, 1907). Having found the ureters, a flexible silk catheter may be intro- duced to obtain a specimen of urine from each kidney, or, if a stricture be present, a metal catheter {e.g. Kelly's metallic ureteral catheter) may be employed, or flexible hard rubber sounds may be used for sounding the ureters and kidneys. The latter may be wax-tipped svhen a calculus is suspected to be present, for the rough parts of the stone will then leave marks on the sound. Conducting forceps may be needed for introducing these sounds and catheters. All the instruments should be very