389 UTERUS, MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF developed after a full time pi-egnaney. Out of 99 cases submitted to radical treatment (vaginal hysterectomy), Teacher's collected statistics showed 63 recoveries, of which "24 remained well for more than a year. The occurrence of metastatic deposits while lessening the chances of recovery does not necessarily preclude operation. LITERATURE.—In addition to the articles already referred to, those of KiSEL (Uber das malignc Chorion- epithcliom, 1903 ; Zeitsch. f. Gehurtsh. u. Oyndk., Ivi. p. 154, 190.^), of Gakkisch (ibid., Ix. p. 115, 1907), of IIdhge [Zivei Beitrdqe (Greifswald), 1907), of Green and Hdntkr (Internat. Clinics, 17 S. iv. p. 188, 1907), of W. RiSEL [Ergeh. d. allg. Path. Anat., xi. p. 928, 1907), of Brennek (Monatssch. f. Geburtsh. u. Gynak., xxvii. pp. 574, 713, 1908), of Pazzi {Ginecologia, v. p. 504, 1908 ; Olin. ostet., x. p. 314, 1908), of Lockhakt (Montreal Med. Journ., Kxxvji. p. 784,1908), of Hokmann {Monatssch. f. Geburtsh. ti. Gyndk., xxix. p. 198, 1909), and of Lab- HAUDT [Zentralb. f. Gyndlc, xxxiii. p. 805, 1909) may all be consulted with profit. Napiee Burnett's monograph, which appeared in the Northumberland and Durham Medical Journal for September 1908, is an admirable sunnnary of the chorionepitheliouia problem. Cancer of the Cervix.—Two matters of considerable importance fall to be chronicled vuider progress in the subject of uterine cancer ; one has to do with the earlier recognition of the disease, and the other relates to the choice of the plan of surgical procedui'e to be adopted. What has been called the " crusade against cancer of the uterus " may be said to have com- menced in 1890 when Clement Godson wrote a paper on the importance of the earlier recog- nition of the disease by paying attention to the symptom of bleeding occurring at, aftei', or near to the menopause. He showed that in 600 cases of cancer of the cervix bleeding had been the first symptom in 461 (76'6 per cent.), and the only symptom in 225 (37'5 per cent.); pain and discharge usually came on later {vide Grod- -son's letter in the Bi-it. Med. Journ., ii. for 1907, p. 854). Winter approached the subject in 1891 {Berl. klin. Wochensch., xxviii. p. 809, 1891), and returned to it again in 1904 (Die Bekd7npfimg <les Uterios Krebses (Stuttgart), 1904; Zentralb./. Gyndk., xxviii. p. 441, 1904), when he was able to report that wonderful progress had been made in securing earlier recognition of the disease in East Prussia. It is interesting to note that Winter found to be the causes which prevented patients consulting their doctors early, in 30 out of 69 patients the delay was due to ignorance of the symptoms of uterine cancer, in 19 it was ascribed to laziness, in 4 to modesty, in 14 to fear of doctors, and in 2 to lack of money. W. Anstruther Milligan summarises in a useful fashion the progress of the movement in the various countries of Europe up to the end of 1906 {.Journ. Obstet. and Gyncec. Brit. Emp., xi. pp. 45-63, 1907). The literature of the subject is already considerable {vide Milligan's article, p. 57); but little had been done of a practical nature in this country till the late Dr. Cullingworth wrote to the British Medical Journal (14th Sept. 1907), and the Council of the British Medical Association appointed a Committee to consider the best means of promoting the eai'ly recognition of Titerine cancer. H. R. Spencer's paper and the discussion which followed the reading of it {Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1907, p. 431 fF.) were instrumental in arousing the attention of the medical profession. Since then more systematic efforts have been made to disseminate a know- ledge of the first symptoms of cancer of the womb : an appeal has been made to medical men to investigate at once (by a physical examination) all cases showing these symp- toms ; the significance of bleeding at the menopause is being insisted on in the lectures and text-books given to and prepared for nurse pupils in hospitals; and pamphlets setting forth the advantages and means of early recognition of the disease are being circulated among mid- wives, nurses, and health visitors. The British Medical Association, for instance, in its circular appeal to midwives and nurses, points out that "cancer of the womb is a very common and fatal disease in women, but it can be cured by operation when it is recognised early. A woman sometimes tells a nurse or midwife her ailments before she speaks to a doctor, and the nurse or midwife has then an opportunity of aiding our crusade against this terrible disease. Cancer may occur at any age, and in a woman who looks quite well, and who may have no pain, no wasting, no foul discharge, and no profuse bleeding. To wait for pain, foul discharge, or profuse bleeding, is to throw away the chance of successful treatment. The early signs of cancer of the womb are—1. Bleeding, which occurs after the change of life. 2. Bleeding after sexual intercourse, or after a vaginal douche. 3. Bleeding, slight or abundant, even in young women, if occurring between the usual monthly periods, and especially when accompanied by a bad-smelling or watery blood-tinged discharge. 4. Thin watery dis- charge occurring at any age. The nurse or midwife who is told by a patient that she has any of these symptoms should insist upon her seeing a medical practitioner in order that an examination may he made without delay. By doing so she will often help to save a valuable life, and will bring credit to herself and to her calling." Information such as is contained in the above circular will doubtless lead to the earlier recognition of cancer and therefore to operation at a time when there is some reason- aisle hope of cure. Already there are signs that women are beginning to understand the possible significance of metrorrhagia and even of menorrhagia at, after, or near the meno- pause (Meyer-Ruegg, Zentralb./. Gyndk., xxxi. p. 629, 1907). Even extreme old age does not seem to interfere with the rule that a red