PANCREAS, DISEASES OF THE 284 associated inflammatory change in the organ. Ill interpreting the result of the test in this group of cases, therefore, the results of an examination of the faeces must be considered along with it. Oxaluria is a common symptom in pancreatic disease (63 per cent, of cases), and may therefore be of confirmatory value. Treatment of Pancreatitis.—In acute pancreatitis the abdomen should be opened and drained. Mayo Robson reports two recoveries out of four cases so dealt with. Otherwise the disease is invariably fatal. Chronic Pancreatitis.—Mayo Robson em- phasises the importance of preventive treatment directed to the cure of conditions which tend to favour the development of chronic pancrea- titis, e.g. gall-stones, duodenal catarrh, duodenal ulcer, alcoholism, or syphilis. If after a fair trial of general treatment, care in diet, wet packs to the epigastrium, rest, and mild mer- curial purges, the symptoms persist, and the signs of failure in pancreatic digestion are manifesting themselves, the question of surgical treatment should be seriouslj^ considered, especially when jaundice is present, because if unrelieved the condition will certainly lead to ser'ious degeneration of the liver and pancreas, and endanger life. In operating for chronic pancreatitis, the surgeon must be prepared to expose the whole length of the common bile-duct, as well as the head of the pancreas. He will then be able to remove the cause, should it be a gall-stone, or a pancreatic calculus, or any other removable condition. In the absence of some obvious removable cause, it is advisable to secure efficient drainage of the infected bile and pancreatic ducts, either by cholecystotomy or cholecysten- terostomy, preferably the latter. When the pancreatic disease is dependent on duodenal catari'h, associated with ulcer of the duodenum, it may be advisable, at the same time that the bile-passages are drained, to perform also a gastro-enterostomy in order to cure the original cause of the disease. Experience has taught that if the cause can be removed at an early stage an absolute cure is possible, and though complete restoration of the damaged gland in more advanced cases cannot always be promised, yet an arrest of the morbid process may be looked for, and the remaining portion of the pancreas will be able to carry on the metabolic, even if it can only incompletely carry on the digestive, functions of the gland. Results.—Mayo Robson gives the following after-results of the surgical treatment of the class of case under consideration :— "Of 102 operations undertaken in patients where chi'onic pancreatic trouble constituted the chief disease, or where it formed a serious complication of other diseases, 96'1 per cent, of cases were followed bj^ recovery, giving a mor- tality of 3-9 per cent. Of the four cases that died, one was a cholecystotomy undertaken in a patient very deeply jaundiced, and reduced to the last stage of exhaustion before a surgical opinion was sought, and where at autopsy a cirrhotic condition of the head of the pancreas was found. The second M'as a cholecystenter- ostomy undertaken in a deeply jaundiced patient in the presence of extensive adhesions, which, on account of the feeble condition of the subject, seemed too formidable to deal with. In this case a necropsy revealed a cal- culus in the pancreatic portion of the common bile-duct, occluding the opening of the pan- creatic duct, which would have been discovered had the patient's condition permitted a thorough exploration. A third, in a very feeble patient operated on away from home, extremely jaundiced, and suffering from repeated rigors. Drainage was imperfectly carried out, and she died of cholsemia two weeks later. And a fourth was a choledochotomy in an aged feeble man, who died of heart failure, accelerated by intestinal htemorrhage, in the third week after operation, when the wound had healed. " In the 55 cases of catarrhal interstitial pancreatitis, where gall-stones were found obstructing the pancreatic portion of the common duct, choledochotomy was performed in 42, cholecystotomy in 9, and cholecysten- terostomy in 4. " Of the 52 patients that recovered, 48 were living and well when last heard of; 1 is apparently well nine and a half years subse- quent to operation, though sugar has recently been found in his urine ; 1 died from cirrhosis of liver and ascites a year after, it being present and far advanced at the time of operation. Another has since died of acute bronchitis, and another from some non-specified ailment. " In one case where the cause was pancreatic lithiasis, where calculi were removed both from Wirsung's and Santorini's ducts, the patient is now in very good health. "In 46 cases of interstitial pancreatitis without gall-stones or other removable cause, the bile-ducts, and thus indirectly the pan- creatic ducts, were drained in 19 cases by simple cholecystotomy, in 17 by cholecysten- terostomy, and in 5 by separation of adhesions and thoroughly freeing the ducts. Of the 45 patients that recovered, no reply to letters was received from 6, who were well some time after operation. The rest were in good health when last heard of, with the exception of one (not drained) who has developed glycosuria some years after operation, but is otherwise well; one who shows signs of permanent damage to the pancreas by the ordinary test; and one Avho has anaemia, suggestive of the pernicious type. "Besides the 19 cholecystotomies were 5 where the pancreatitis was associated with