299 POLYCYTHiEMIA VERA emphysema—must be considered. The history of an iUness capable of causing enlargement of the spleen will render the diagnosis uncertain. Weber states that in polycythaemia an enlarge- ment of the liver without much enlargement of the spleen is in favour of polycythaemia secondary to stasis. (2) In some cases chronic polycythivmia is apparently due to primary tuberculosis of the spleen. (3) In any obscure case of cyanosis the possibility of chi-onic poisoning with coal tar products (acetanilide, etc.) should l)e investigated. Course, Duration, and Treatment.— Mackey states that the average duration of the disease from the time of the appearance of the first symptom to the date when the patient came under observation or died is four years. Remissions may occur. Treatment is unsatisfactory. The diet should probably be as free from iron as possible ; "sour milk," or some preparation of lactic acid bacilli, might be used to influence the intestinal flora. Arsenic, quinine, thyroid, and vaso- dilators have proved of no use. Iiuniction with unguentum hydrargyri iodidi is said to have benefited one case. Splenectomy is useless, and often fatal. The X-rays generally fail ; in one or two cases they seem to have done good. Inhalations of oxygen have been tried fruitlessly. Venisection sometimes relieves the symptoms for the time being. Drugs which are likely to produce cyanosis (acetanilide, etc.) should be avoided. LITERATURE.—OsLEE, Trans. Aisoc. Amer. Physn., p. 316, 1903 ; Brit. Med. Journ., Itith Jan. 1904.— Anders, Amei: Journ. Med. 5ct., June 1907.—Lommell, Deutsche Arch. f. klin. Med., l.xxxvii. Hft. 3-4, 1906.— Blumesthal, Bull. Acad. roy. de med. de Behjique, 30th Dec. 1906.—Sauniibt, Brit. Med. Journ., 18th May 1»07. —Mackey, Birmingham Med. Rev., Sept. and Oct. 1907 (literature, and analysis of 46 case.s).—Parkes Wi-ber, Quarterly Journ. of Med., Oct. 1908 (full bibliography of erythrocytosis and erythraemia, and analysis of cases).— Herringham, Brit. Med. Journ., 9th May 1908. Polygrlobulia. — An increase in the number of red cells in the blood ; polycythsemia. Polyplasmia.. — An increase in the volume of the blood due to its liquid and soluble constituents being in excess; a serous plethora; the converse condition is oligo- plasmia. Porcupine Patch {sep also Pal^eo- GENETIC),—The name given by Sir Jonathan Hutchinson to a hair-covered area in the lumbo- sacral region, which is occasionally noted in the human subject, and which is believed hj him to be the remains pala;ogenetically of the patch of quills seen in the porcupine; it may be associated with spina bifida occulta (Hutchin- son, Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1910, p. 8-57). Porges - Meier Reaction. — Sen Syphilis {iserum-Dinyiiosis). Postural. — Pertaining to po.sition, e.g. postural albuminuria is that which depends upon the position of the patient, hypostatic album.inuria coming on when the patient is lying and orthostatic only when he is erect. "Prana" Apparatus.—An apparatus for producing the freezing caustic carbon dioxide snow used in the treatment of several cutaneous aflections (naevi, lupus erythematosus, etc.); it is descril)ed and figured in the Lancet, ii. for 1910, p 1840. Precipitin Test.—A test for deter- mining the origin of a blood-stain, i.e. from what animal it has come. Precipitins are anti- bodies (other antibodies being antitoxins, ag- glutinins, lysins, etc.) which arise in the blood and tissues as the result of the entrance of ceitain foreign bodies of albuminous or proteid nature (antigens). In this test the antigen is serum albumin or globulin, and when a liquid containing antibody is added to one containing the antigen the clear liquid shows opacity, and finally a precipitum or cloudy deposit; but, further, the antigen has an action which is specific, i.e. the antigen derived from any other species of animal will not produce the result. For details of technique, etc., see M'Weeney, Lancet, i. for 1910, pp. 1669-1674. Preg^nancy, Manag^ement of. Vaginal Examination in Pregnancy . .300 Diet in Pregnancy .... 300 Analysis of the Urine . . . 300 Consultations in Pregnancy . . 300 Hospital Management of Morbid Pregnancies 301 During the past few years increased attention has been paid to the physiology and pathology of pregnancy, and the medical profession is beginning to regard pregnancy as a period during which supervision is required if the health of the mother and her unborn infant is to be secured. The days have passed when in better-class practice the medical attendant was satisfied that he had done all his duty to his pregnant patient if he went at once to attend hei' at her confinement Avhen sent for. Now it is beginning to be realised that the obstetrician's services may be of value in pregnancy, and that it may be well for the patient to have the advice of her doctor upon even the minor ail- ments of gestation, foi-, indeed, out of them may grow such major disasters as eclampsia and hyperemesis. Articles dealing with the management of pregnancy from the pens of Professors Davis,