MENSTRUATIOiV •257 which its generative organs were capable of the reproductive function ; the " breeding season " was the whole of the consecutive period during which any male or female mammal was con- cerned in the production of young, and it did not include (in the case of the female) the nursing period, although it did include the " sexual season" and gestation; and the " sexual season" was for both male and female mammals the particular time, or times, in the year during which their sexual organs exhibited special activity, and it might consist of one or more periods, long or short, inter- rupted or not by gestation (in the female). It was desirable to restrict the terms " rutting season" and "rut" to the phenomena of re- production in male mammals ; but " rutting season" might be regarded as synonymous with the "sexual season in the male." In some mammals, such as the stag, the rutting season was a limited and defined period of the year, during which alone the male had power of inseminating the female ; in others, such as the dog, there was sexual capability all the year round. Having in this way simplified and defined the terminology of the subject, Heape proceeded to deal with the female sexual season and its phenomena, especially as they were manifested in the absence of the male, for his presence, and more particulai'ly the occurrence of gestation, introduced compli- cations. He found that the sexual season consisted of four consecutive periods. In the case of mammals {e.g. the bitch and wolf) which are named " monoestrous" the four periods were as follow :—(1) There was the pro-oestrum, or " coming in season," during which the internal and external genital organs showed congestive and hypertrophic changes and ex- hibited a discharge, generally mucous in char- acter, but sometimes containing blood also; (2) this was followed by the " oestrus," the climax of the whole cycle, and the time during which the female had desire for the male and was capable of being fertilised by him; as a rule oestrus succeeded the pro-oestrum, and during its occurrence the wave of vascular disturbance which had aftected, in turn, the external and the internal generative organs passed back again to the external parts ; (3) a period ("met-a3strum") during which the functional activity of the organs was subsiding, followed upon cestrus; and (4) " an-oestrum" or the ancestrous period, a resting time during which the repioductive organs lay fallow, so to speak, brought the whole cj^cle to a close. A " monoestrous" mammal might have one, two, or three such ancestrous cycles in a year, thus (representing the periods by their initials) there might be P : CE : M : A (of ten or eleven months) ; or P : ffi : M : A (of two or three months): P : GE : M : A (of two or three months). But there was also another type of sexual season, such as was met with in the mare. In that type there occurred the pro-oestrum, oestrus, and the metoestrum as in monoestrous mammals ; but then followed, not anoestrum but a short resting time called di-oestrum," and then the cycle recommenced (pro-oestrum, oestrus, metoestrum), to end this time in anoestrum, or, perhaps, once more to have dioestrum and a third cycle. The sexual season consisted of a series of such cycles, which might be termed dimstrous, and the mammal which had this type of sexual season was called "polycestrous." The human subject had this dioestrous type in so exaggerated a degree that, during her whole reproductive life, she never had anoestrum at all; there was a continuous series of dioestrous cycles, and she had a sexual season which (in the absence of gestation) was coterminous with her reproduc- tive period. There were ethnical traces, how- ever, of a time in the development of the human race when the series of cycles had been broken by ancestrous periods, and at the present day there was some evidence that Esquimaux women had such occasional resting periods. It was possible, therefore, to regard the polyoestrous type as a concentration of several monoestrous sexual seasons ; on the other hand, it could be argued that the monoestrous type was a decentralised poly- oestrum. Of course, the occurrence of con- ception, of gestation, and of the suckling period interfered with the symmetry of these cyclical processions ; the mammal which became impregnated then had a pro-oestrum and oestrus, followed by gestation and parturition, and, after that, passed through what was left of an ancestrous period, or entered at once into another oestrus and another gestation. The cause or origin of the sexual season was difficult of determination, but there was some evidence that a nutritional stimulus had something to do with it; at any rate the special feeding (the so-called " flushing") of ewes hastened the appearance of the sexual season in them. Having cleared up the comparative physiology of the sexual season for mammals, Heape pro- ceeded to fix the position of menstruation in the human female and the primates with regard thereto. He identified menstruation with the pro-oestrum; and he pointed out that in both there was congestion and growth followed by destruction of tissue, in both there was re- currence, and that the phylogeny of the subject indicated this identification. The difficulty which was presented by the absence of the discharge of blood in most mammals, and by its presence in the primates, was capable of explanation. There were gradations between the mammals in which the discharge consisted of mucus with a few epithelial cells and those in which it was made up of blood and some of the uterine stroma. Again, the absence of an