9 ABDOMINAL SECTION they may be left in for ten or twelve days, unless any one of them is giving rise to irrita- tion or inflammation, when it ought to be removed. If catgut sutures have been used throughout, and buried, they will not of course require to be removed; but if there are also surface ones they will come away with a little traction about the sixth or seventh day, leaving the buried part to be absorbed. The wound itself is best kept dry; and it is a good plan to paint with iodine when the stitches are re- moved. After these have been taken out the quantity of dressing material may be lessened, and it will be well to fix it by strips of ad- hesive plaster, which also serve to support the wound. An abdominal belt should be begun to be worn about the twenty-first day, and it should be continued for a year after the opera- tion. It may not, doubtless it does not, pre- vent ventral hernia, but it serves to give strength to the abdominal wall in cases of sudden strain, and may also act as a sort of reminder to the patient that he or she has had a severe operation, and is not to take liberties too soon. The belt should be of light material, it should not be elastic; it should be carefully fitted to the figure, and it may be kept down for a time by thigh straps. A great deal of the patient's comfort depends on the regular cleansing of the skin which the nurse gives. Kegular washing of the face and hands and sponging of the body should be done; if the patient be a woman her hair will require to be combed and braided, and the vulvar and anal regions will require washing, and, possibly, vaginal douching may be beneficial. The question of early or late resumption of the erect posture has been already referred to, and, speaking generally, the twenty-first day is soon enough. During the first week no visitors should be allowed; after that time the patient may see one or two visitors a day for a few minutes, and, if everything goes well, in the third and fourth weeks more freedom may be allowed in this respect. Complications of various kinds may occur during an abdominal section and during the post-operative period. Among the former (the operative complications) may be named injury of the bladder, intestine, tumour, etc., in open- ing the abdomen; these are to he. avoided by remembering the anatomical relations of the bladder (especially in children and in patients with subperitoneal pelvic growths), and by noting whether the edges of the incision bleed much, and whether the preperitoneal fat is injected (indicating peritonitic adhesions). Other complications are vomiting (to be guarded against by having an experienced anaesthetist), bulging of the intestines through the wound (generally due to faulty anssthetisation), haemorrhage (due to the slipping of knots, the tearing of vascular adhesions, or the injury of viscera), and tears of the intestine (to be closed by the Lembert suture, or, in large losses of tissue, by intestinal anastomosis). The chief post-operative complications are shock {see Shock), persistent vomiting (best relieved by gastric lavage with carbonate of soda solution), ab- dominal distension due to intestinal atony (to be treated in different ways varying in severity from the administration of purgatives and the passage of the I'ectal tube to re-opening the abdomen to relieve intestinal kinks or ad- hesions), secondary haemorrhage (requiring re- opening of the abdomen), general septic peri- tonitis (an almost hopeless complication), localised suppuration in the wound (stitch abscesses, calling for syringing with peroxide of hydrogen) or in the abdominal cavity (necessi- tating re-opening of the abdomen, or the incision and drainage of the abscess through the vaginal canal in women), suppression of urine indicat- ing wounds or occlusion of the ureters (as by ligature or clamp, when, of course, the abdomen should be re-opened), or nephritis (calling for the special treatment of that morbid state), or the removal of what was the patient's only kidney or only functionating one, and femoral thrombosis (usually a late complication, calling for the treatment appropriate thereto). See also Tetan us. LITERATURE.—MoYNiHAN, Abdominal Opera- tions, 2nd ed., 1906.—Kelly and Noble, Gynecology and Abdominal Surgery, 2 vols., 1907.—Treves and Hutchinson, Operative Surgery, 2 vols., 1909.— Deaver and Ashhurst, Surgery of the Upper Abdomen, 1909.—GuiNARD, Affections chirurgicales de Vabdomen (in Le Dentu and Delbet's Nouveau traite de chirurgie, vol. xxiv., 1910).—Crandon, Surgical After-Treatinent, 1910.—Mercade, La periode post- operatoire, 1910. Abiotrophy.—A term introduced by Gowers, with the meaning of premature exhaus- tion, degeneration and death of the tissues, e.g. of groups of nerve cells, not the result of any immediate irritant. The condition has been invoked to explain certain diseases of the nervous system, many of them hereditary, in which it may be supposed that some neurons become prematurely senile, the rest of the nervous system being apparently unaff'ected. By this theory Thomsen's disease and locomotor ataxia (of syphilitic origin) have been elucidated; abiotrophy has been used, also, to explain the effect of the X-rays upon the spermatozoa of the frog, which can still fertilise ova, but the larvae produced from them die prematurely (Adami, Fathologij, i. pp. 876-878, 1910). Abortion. Frequency 10 Classification 11 Etiology 12 Diagnosis 13 Treatment 14