ABDOMINAL SECTION 6 or less complicated procedures occupying a longer or a shorter time ai'e undertaken by the laparotomist, and the special technique may be that of an appendicectomy, a cholecystotomy, a gastrotomy, a gastrectomy, a gastropexy, a pyloroplasty, a gastro-enterostomy, an intestinal anastomosis, a colotomy or colostomy, an in- cision of the pancreas, a splenectomy, a supra- pubic prostatectomy or lithotomy, an aljdominal nephrectomy, a hysterectomy, an ovariotomy, a myomectomy, a hysteropexy, an Alexander- Adams operation, a salpingo-oophorectomy, or a Cesarean section. The Peritoneal Toilette.—It is doubt- ful whether the use of the words "peritoneal toilette " have not given too great an emphasis to the part of the technique of an abdominal section which is indicated by them. Certainly it is well to remove blood clot, cyst-fluid, shreds of tissue and the like from the peritoneal cavity before it is closed, but in non-septic cases it will be well not to spend much time and not to exer- cise too much vigour in the cleansing or clearing out of this serous sac, for under such circum- stances the peritoneum will usually absorb any little quantity of fluid, etc., which may be left behind. Neither continued swabbing with pledgets or sponges nor prolonged irrigation are safe procedures. If, however, a septic focus has been opened during the operation {e.g. by the rupture of a pyosalpinx), or if purulent peritonitis exist, then time may be, should be, devoted to cleansing the peritoneal cavity, preferably by irrigation ; but even here general flushing will not take the place of careful local management of the focus of mischief (perforated bowel or stomach, pus-tube, etc.), and the upper part of the abdominal cavity (the so-called "diaphragmatic area") with its greater sensi- tiveness should, if possible, be left alone. The counting of instruments, especially catch-forceps and needles, and of swahs and sponges is probably of far more importance than what is usually meant by the peritoneal toilette. Every swab or forceps used during the opera- tion should be accounted for, and their number should be compared with the list (hung up on the wall or placed in some other conspicuous place); the fact that the best operators have occasionally left a pair of artery forceps or a pledget in the abdomen is no excuse for care- lessness but an additional call for the most scrupulous care. Special notice should be taken of any swab or instrument used by the assistant during the operation {e.g. during unexpected haemorrhage or other emergency), for it is more likely to be overlooked. The attaching of tapes to the swabs is a precaution of considerable value. Finally, if the operator closes the abdominal incision upon a large flat pledget or sponge he must never tie his sutures till he has removed it. The Closure of the Incision.—The incision may be closed by the " through-and-through" method of suturing, or it may be done layer by layer (" in tiers "). The former is perhaps to be preferred when the operation has been a long one, for it occupies far less time, but the resulting cicatrix is more apt to yield to hernial protrusions than when layer is accurately attached to layer in the tier method, and there is also some evidence that suppuration of the wound is more frequent. The " through-and- through " method is likewise indicated in the somewhat rare cases in which drainage is to be employed. The technique of the "through-and-through" plan is as follows :—The suture material which is to be preferred is silkworm gut, silk being too'prone to become infected. Curved needles applied by a needle-holder are usually employed, but in some operations {e.g. Csesarean section) straight ones are better suited; as a rule the needle in the fixed handle is rather clumsy. The needles should be ready threaded so that no time may be lost. A large flat pledget or thin sponge is placed inside to protect the intestines during the suturing, and this must, of course, be removed before the sutures are tied. There are many kinds of needle-holders, but the best form is that which gives a secure hold of the needle and which releases the same when its handle is compressed; a special one may be needed if very fine needles are being used, but this want does not arise when the " through-and-through" method is the one chosen. Grasping the needle (carrying the silkworm gut suture) in his right hand, and picking up the margin of the lower end of the incision with the thumb and forefinger of his left, the operator introduces the first suture. If any of the tissues have retracted (as is often the case) it is well to draw them forward with a pair of dissecting forceps, and care must be taken that the peritoneal margins are brought together. The needle is introduced into the skin about a quarter of an inch from its cut edge and should be then directed outwards until it reaches the pei'itoneal fat of the wall, then it is turned inwards and made to traverse the peritoneum about a quarter of an inch from the peritoneal edge of the incision; it is next brought through with its suture and inserted in the opposite side of the wound in the reverse order (first through peritoneum, then through muscular and fascial layers), and finally brought out through the skin at about the same distance from the edge of the wound as that at which it entered. The suture is now held fast by a pair of catch-forceps, but is not tied until all the others have been passed. The operator works his way upward, passing the sutures at a distance of about a third of an inch from one another, taking care that no blood clot is included, and being accurate in introducing and bringing out the needle at the