ANTENATAL PATHOLOGY 37 those of the embryonic period are the mal- formations of the embryo (corresponding to a large part of teratology), and those of the germinal period are morbid heredity showing itself in vaiious ways. Such is a generalisation of the multiform morbid states gi-ouped together in antenatal pathology ; if an attempt be made to particularise, it is found that there are no ■clear-cut lines of demarcation, and that the pathological developments of one time cannot lie separated with mathematical precision from those of another, but overlap to a great or small extent. Keeping this modifying circum- stance in mind we may try to form some idea ■of the scope and contents of each of the three periods. FcETAL Pathology.—During the foetal period of life the organism (the foetus) shows its vitality chiefly by growth along lines which have been *ilready definitely laid down. In this respect it resembles the subsequent postnatal period of infancy rather than the precedent antenatal one of embryonic existence. It is growth rather than development that is its distinguishing mark. It is true that the intra-uterine environ- ment has very distinctive and peculiai' characters —the unborn infant exists in a fluid medium of practically constant temperature, it is protected from traumatism by the matei'nal structures, and it is shut in from the light; further, the foetus has several of its organs almost inactive, iind its most important and most active organ, the placenta, is extra-corporeal. Nevertheless, the chief phenomenon of foetal life is growth, rapid and continuous, along lines ali'eady indi- oated; within seven months the organism increases from a structure 1 inch in length to one measuring 20 inches, and its increase in weight is from 1 ounce to 7 or 8 pounds. In these facts is found the explanation of much that is puzzling in foetal pathology ; the more clearly we recognise the physiological characters of foetal existence, the more easily shall we solve the riddle of the peculiarities of the diseases which affect the unboi'n infant. At the basis of the understanding of foetal morbid states is the knowledge of the anatomy and physiology of the foetus. In his work referred to al)ove {Manual of Antenatal Pathology, i. pp. 172, 429), Ballantyne applies these principles to the study of the transmitted and idiopathic diseases of the foetus and of foetal death. Thus, in connection with infection of the unborn infant with typhoid fever, he points out that the characteristic intes- tinal lesions are seldom met with, and he explains this by the fact that the intestinal functions are almost quiescent during antenatal life, and by the avenue of entrance of the infecting agent in the case of the foetus. The latter fact is one of consideral>le interest and importance. Since the maternal l)lood comes into close relationship with the foetal only in the placenta, it follows that geims can pass from the former to the latter only through that organ; foetal infection, therefore, is by way of the placenta, the umbilical vein, and the umbilicus, and the unborn infant has diseases transmitted to it, not through the buccal, pharyngeal, pulmonary, or intestinal mucous membranes, but through the blood which reaches it at the umbilicus. The lesions which this infection will cause will therefore have a localisation different from that which is found in the adult; they will have the umbilicus as a centre, and will be most likely to be discovered in the organs nearly related by vascular connec- tions to the umbilicus. Consequently, in foetal typhoid the typical bacillus is found commonly in the placenta, the blood, the brain, the spleen, and other oi-gans, but intestinal lesions are very uncommon. In such cases the foetal blood has shown Widal's test, proving that agglutinins also are transmitted from the mother to the foetus, or are developed independently in the latter. Foetal tuberculosis is another malady which is affected by the antenatal environment, and the foetal method of acquiring a microbic morbid state : the lungs of the unborn infant suffering from tubercle usually show only scattered bacilli, whilst the liver (which is the first organ to receive the infected Iblood of the umbilical vein) contains, as a rule, great numbers of them and exhibits tubercular lesions; the spleen likewise is affected, and bacilli are to be found in the placenta and in the blood of the umbilical vein; and, on the other hand, tubercular lesions of the intestine are very rare. The same general system of distribution may be traced in other transmitted diseases of the foetus, such as smallpox, syphilis, and malaria; and in transmitted toxicological states, such as lead-poisoning, the same rule applies, the metal being discovered in the liver, spleen, and brain, as well as in the placenta. The idiopathic diseases of the foetus, such as general dropsy, ichthyosis, elephantiasis, etc., do not indeed show any peculiarity in the matter of the localisation of the chai'acteristic lesions of these maladies, but they do exhibit the effects of the intra-uterine environment and the preponderating influence of the placenta in antenatal life. Foetal ichthyosis, for instance, reaches a stage and a degree never seen in postnatal life; and the explanation is to be found doubtless in the fluid medium in which the foetus lies, which, on the one hand, prevents the action of friction, and on the other, en- courages an extraordinary proliferation of the epidermic layers of the skin. General foetal dropsy, also, attains a degree never seen in oedema of the adult; and the reason is to be found in the placenta, which can keep even a seriously diseased foetus in life, the latter being a semi-parasite upon its mother through the placenta. The proof of this statement is found in the fact that such a foitus is incapable of an