143 ECTOPIC PEEGNANCY operated by the vaginal route ; but whilst it is true that good results have been obtained, both by posterior and anterior colpotomy, and whilst it must be admitted that an operation begun by abdominal section may require to be terminated by vaginal drainage, still the practice of gynecologists seems to be to employ abdominal section more frequently than vaginal for gestations of all ages. With regard, next, to details, several matters must be looked upon as still undecided, but we are rapidly approaching the time when a definite policy shall have been settled for all the varieties and possible emergencies of ectopic gestation. Let us consider first the fairly well decided methods to be employed in early pregnancies, and then the less defined plans for the later cases. In the presence of an early rupture of the pregnant tube with signs of internal hgemorrhage there is, of course, no doubt that the abdomen should be opened, the sac removed and the haemorrhage stopped. The only matter in dis- pute is whether this should be done during the continuance of the state of shock or after re- action has come on. While there is some advantage in waiting till the period of shock is past, it is not great, and the weight of opinion, at any rate among operators, is on the side of immediate operation, by the abdominal route, and under light anajsthesia. A saline may be infused during the section. There is no great change in the technique; but it is of service to clamp the broad ligament with pressure forceps outside and inside the ruptured tube before doing anything else. There is no need to remove the ovary unless it be diseased, but it is not yet clear whether any attempt should be made to conserve a ruptured tube. In early ectopic pregnancies in which as yet there are no cataclysmic symptoms pointing to the inundation of the peritoneum with blood from a ruptured tube the indication is still to open the abdomen and remove the gestation sac. The sac may be found in the wall of the tube, partly extruded through the ostium, free in the peritoneal cavity, or attached to the omentum ; in any case, its blood-supply is to be secured and itself removed. In the case of tubal moles and even of ordinary growing tubal pregnancies the attempt has been made to conserve the tube by dilating it or by splitting its wall and re- moving the sac; of course if this be done great care will have to be taken to secure all bleeding points and suture the opening. As a general rule, however, the tube is to be taken away and the ovary left, and the details of the operation are usually quite simple. Where the gestation has become intra-ligamentary the difficulties may be more formidable, and it may be necessary to drain the sac with gauze brought out through the vagina. If the gestation be in the isthmus or in the uterine wall (interstitial) it will always be well to try to save the uterus (Wimmer, ZentraW. f. Gynak., xxvii. p. 52, 1903); but in some cases this will be found to be impossible, and then subtotal hysterectomy will be needed, as in Bertram Hunt's patient [Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1906, p. 777). The operative treatment of ectopic gestations in the latter half of pregnancy and at or after the full term is a matter about which there is not yet the same crystallisation of expert opinion as exists regarding the management of the earlier cases. Shall we delay operation till the full time in order to give the child a chance? Shall we wait beyond the full term for the death of the foetus in order to have to deal with a dead instead of a " quick" placenta? Shall we try to remove the placenta at the same time as the infant, or shall we allow it to remain till its vascularity has lessened and then take it away 1 These are three of the undecided problems in the management of ectopic gesta- tion at or near full term. There seems, however, to be a general inclination to answer the first question in the negative, and I believe that ultimately the second one will receive a similar answer; the reply to the third must depend upon circumstances. If, on opening the ab- domen, the operator finds that he can easily secure the blood-supply of the gestation sac, he ought to do so and then remove the sac entire with the foetus and placenta inside. Potocki {Aym. de gynec. et d'ohstet., 2 s., v. p. 92, 1908), from experience gained in the treatment of some diiiicult cases, is of opinion that hffimostasis gained by clamping the uterine and ovarian arteries on the aftected side should be the first step after the abdomen has been opened. As a general rule, however, the operator opens the sac and removes the foetus ; if the foetus be macerated and the placenta in consequence be not " living," it may then be good treatment to strip off the latter and close the sac and the abdomen. It may, however, be wiser to stitch the margin of the sac to the abdominal incision (marsupialisation). If the foetus be alive (or only recently dead) and the placenta consequently " quick," the operator will have to decide whether he will take away the placenta or leave it; if he can secure the vessels of the broad ligament he may take the placenta away, and if it lie above the foetus in the sac he will require to take it away ; but if not, he will probably be well advised not to try to sepai'ate it, as the bleeding from the site will certainly be very great, and ma}' even be impossible to check. He may remove the foetus, cut off the umbilical cord close to the placenta, and marsupialise the sac, making an attempt to remove the after-birth in ten or twelve days; or he may entirely close the sac on the abdominal side and open and maintain a con- munication with the vagina by means of a gauze drain, and hope to remove the placenta