POLYCYTHEMIA VERA •297 the disease usually occurs between the thirtieth and fiftieth years. A relative large number of the patients have been Jewish, but the evidence of racial proclivity is slender. The char'acter- istic features may be discussed under the heads of (1) plethora, (2) splenomegaly, (3) blood changes, (4) general symptoms. (1) Plethora.—Cases of polycythsemia vera always present a plethoric appearance. The face is deeply congested or cyanosed. In some cases cyanosis, in others unnatural floridness, predominates. The engorgement or cyanosis is most conspicuous in the face, ears, and ■extremities; it seldom affects the general sur- face of the body. A similar condition of the mucous membrane of the mouth, tongue, and conjunctivaj is present; the retina shows the same change. The degree of congestion varies from time to time in the same person; cold increases the cyanosis, warmth tends to make the face more ruddy. Under the influence of emotion cyanosis may give place to flashing. (2) Splenomegaly.—Some degree of splenic tumour can generally be made out. The organ may only reach a few finger-breadths below the ribs, or it may extend down to the umbilicus. On the whole, the enlargement is moderate, and the enormous hypertrophy met with in some cases of leukaemia does not occur. The spleen may vary in size from time to time, and complete subsidence of the enlargement has been observed. The organ is small and firm. There is moderate increase in the size of the liver in most cases ; excessive enlarge- ment is rare. (3) Blood Changess.—The red corpuscles and haemoglobin are always, the leucocytes usually, increased. The specific gravity, and, what is of more practical importance, the viscosity, of the blood are high. The red corpuscles generally number from 7,000,000 to 9,000,000 per c.mm., though counts of 13,000,000 have been recorded. Mackey gives 8,900,000 as the average. As a rule the cells show few changes otherwise; poikilocytosis, polychromasia, or the presence of a few normoblasts are men- tioned by some authors. The hsemoglobin is raised, but not proportionately the red cor- puscles ; the colour index, therefore, is below J '0. Moderate leucocytosis is the rule; Mackey found that the average in 40 cases was 14,250. The percentage of polynuclears is high—70 per cent, or so. A few myelocytes may be present. Blumenthal has recorded a ■case in which 36 per cent, of myelocytes were found, but the case was an exceptional one in other respects as well. (4) Other Symptoms.—Subjective symptoms vary considerably, and may be absent. Head- ache, vertigo (suggestive of Meniere's disease), fulness in the head, paroxysmal dyspnoea, abdominal pain, dj'spepsia, thirst, and con- stipation are all common. Haemorrhage from the gums, nose, uterus, and other mucous membranes occur. The arterial pressure is often high (180 mm. Hg); there is sometimes cardiac hypertrophy. Distension of the super- ficial veins is common. Albuminuria is present in the majority of patients. As among the more frequent complications, jaundice, cirrhosis of the liver, erythromelalgia, and arterio- sclerosis maj^ be mentioned. Morbid Anatomy. — The only constant lesion, apparently, is the evidence in the marrow of excessive erythropoiesis. This will again be referred to. Infarcts of the enlarged spleen, obvious distension of the abdominal veins, and thromboses are also characteristic. In not a few cases cirrhosis of the liver, portal obstruction, or tuberculosis of the spleen has been found, and, of course, many other com- plicating lesions—e.g. cerebral haemorrhage. The relationships of these pathological changes will become more apparent as the pathology of the disease is considered. Pathology.—Polycythaemia, using the word in a general sense to imply an increase of the red corpuscles in the blood, may be either relative or absolute. Relative 'polyci/fho'mia T-esults from concentration of the blood Ijy loss of fluid from the body, and with it we have nothing further to do. Absolute ]w]ycyth(i'mia, however, occurs either as a primary or a secondary condition. As secondary polycy- thsemia, we reckon the polycythsemia of high altitudes, and the polycythsemia of stasis. It is well known that in many cases of chronic cyanosis, whether from congenital heart disease, acquired heart disease, emphysema of the lungs, or, in fact, any condition leading to interference with the oxygenation of the blood, the red cor- puscles may rise and remain very much above the normal figure. At high altitudes the same occurs, and in both the explanation usually accepted is that the hyperglobulia is a com- pensatory response of the oi'ganism to lack of oxygen. In secondary polycythsemia of this description there is evidence, after death, of increased erythropoietic activity of the marrow. As other possible causes of secondary polycy- thsemia Weber enumerates the following:— 1. Stasis due to portal obstruction. 2. Toxic conditions, such as phosphorus poisoning, and chronic intoxication with coal tar derivatives— antipyrin, etc. 3. Chronic infectious diseases —tuberculosis, syphilis, malaria. 4. Ill-defined conditions—suprarenal lesions, affections of the marrow—e.g. in osteitis deformans), arterio- sclerosis of the vessels of the limbs. In erythrsemia proper there is always e^'idence of increased formation of red cells by the marrow—this is the sole constant anomaly found. It may thus be regarded as analogous to leukaemia, in which there is increased leucoblastic activity. It is, however, remark- able that in cases of polycythsemia vera there