AND PUBIOTOMY SYMPHYSIOTOMY 357 ischium and those of the pubis on either side of the pubic bone." Stolz also described the operation in 1844. Since 1903 a great mass of literature has gathered round pubiotomy, how great may be in part estimated from the fact that the ZentralbJatt fiir Gyiidkologie for the year 1907 contained eleven original articles on hebosteotomy and between thirty and forty refer- ences to articles occurring in other journals. It is unnecessary, however, to consider in detail the many conti'ibutions that have been made to the subject, for most of them are concerned with details which are hardly of the importance that the writers of the articles give to them. The chief methods of performing hebotomy may be briefly described. The ordinary pre- parations are made and the skin over the sym- physis, external genitals, and neighbourhood is rendered as nearly aseptic as possible. If Gigli's pla7i be adopted, an incision is made over the pubes and the soft parts are cut through down to the bone ; the cut begins a very little to the left of the middle line and runs downwards and outwards obliquely down to the subpubic tubercle aboiit half-way down the pubic arch. A carrier is then passed behind the pu.bic bone and the Gigli saw is drawn by it into position ; the bone is quickly sawn through, and, as Grigli has said, the pelvis " opens like a book." The infant is usually delivered by forceps, or, in some cases, the natural eff'orts are waited for. Van de Velde's metlwd differs slightly. The incision in the skin is made from the left pubic spine passing downvvards and inwards to the outer surface of the left labiimi majus opposite the vestibule. The operator's finger is introduced at the lower end of the wound thus produced and is pushed below and behind the pubic bone ; a curved, blunt^pointed needle, with a slot eye, is then guided up behind the bone (the point being kept close to the bone by manipulation of the handle) until it reaches the upper angle of the wound; the ring of Gigli's saw is then fixed to the needle which is withdrawn so as to bring the saw in contact with the posterior surface of the pubic bone; a few strokes of the saw cut through the bone ; and the instrument is now withdrawn from the lower end of the wound and pressure applied to check the haemorrhage. The child can then be delivered. It is claimed that by following Van de Velde's line of in- cision the internal pudic artery and the corpus cavernosum of the clitoris are less likely to be injured. Ddderleins method (Arch. f. Gynaek., Ixxii. p. 275, 1904 ; ZentraJb. f. Gyndk, xxviii. p. 1240, 1904; xxx. p. 84, 1906) has certain advantages. A colpeurynter is passed into the vagina to dilate the parts, to keep the mem- branes intact, and to prevent the head coming into the brim. When the cervix is fully dilated the membranes are ruptured, the bladder is emptied, and the section of the bone is carried out. A small transverse incision is made over the pubic bone between the symphysis and the spine, generally on the left side. The finger is passed into the incision and is directed down- wards behind the pubes, separating the parts from the bone; then, the way having been prepared, Doderlein's curved needle is carried down along the back of the bone, which it is made to hug closely, until it can be felt under the skin of the labium majus free of the lower margin of the bone ; a cut sets the point of the needle free, Gigli's saw is attached to it and is drawn up along the wound until it is in position, and then the bone can be cut through with six or ten strokes (keeping the saw vertical). At this stage the patient is in the dorsal position, and assistants press the pelvis together, although there is no great risk of the two segments sud- denly flying apart; haemorrhage is controlled by pressure as a rule ; and now the legs of the patient are allowed to hang down (Walcher's position), and spontaneous delivery is waited for, or, if necessary, the forceps is applied. After the placenta has been expelled the vagina is tightly plugged with gauze and compresses are placed over the wounds. In this way hsematoma, a troublesome complica- tion, may be avoided. The plugging is removed in eight hours, and the bladder emptied. Ad- hesive plaster and a tight binder close the wounds and hold the pelvis together. Rest in the dorsal position for twelve days is neces- sary ; thereafter the patient usually recover.? as after an ordinary delivery (Gibson, Journ. Ohstet. and Gynwc. Brit. Emp.. xi. p. 380, 1907). Buniin'n method is somewhat similar ; as de- scribed by Kroemer {Berl. kUn. Wochensch., xlv. p. 1044, 1908) it is as follows. A Bumm needle is passed in below the symphysis till it touches the bone ; it is passed up with its point keeping in contact with the posterior surface of the pubic bone ; it is brought out through the skin above the symphysis, close to the middle line ; the Gigli saw is led along the passage thus made, and the bone divided with it from above downwards and outwards. It is the usual practice in Bumm's clinique to allow the labour to proceed naturally, unless there are special reasons for haste, and then forceps or version is employed. Bumm's method is practi- cally subcutaneous, and Doderlein's nearly so. There seems to be a general tendency to adopt the latter plan, and so to get rid of long open incisions (Henkel, Zentndb. f. Gyndk., xxx. p. 233, 1906). Various needles or carriers have been suggested, such as de Lee's {Ob- stetrics for 1906, p. 190), Seeligmann's (which is grooved, vide Zentralb. f. Gyndk., xxix. p. 1206, 1905), and Walcher's {ibid., xxix. p. 1102, 1905). In most of them the needle is used to pull the Gigli saw into the wound, but if Seeligmann's (which is hollow and grooved) be employed the sawing can be carried out with