176 HEART, DISEASES OF is now known to be invariably due to heart- block, and to have for its pathological basis a lesion of the conducting fibres between auricle and ventricle. Clinically, heart-block reveals itself l)y a per- sistently infrequent pulse. The infrequency is due to the dropping out of ventricular beats, owing to blocking of impulse descending the a-v bundle. The ventricular systole may only drop out at rare intervals, or it may drop out at every 2nd, 3rd, 4th, .... beat, giving rhythms of 2 : 1, 3 :1, 4 :1, . . . , just as in experimental block referred to above. When the pulse-rate is as low as about 30, the prob- ability is that there is complete dissociation of the ventricular and auricular rhythms, and that each set of chambers is beating independently. The exact relationship of the auricular and ventricular beats is only to be determined by the aid of tracings. Thus, in Fig. 5 it is seen Fig. 5.—The ventricle only responds to every alternate auricular systole. Ventricular rate 48, auricular rate 96. (After Mackenzie. that only every second auricular wave is followed by a ventricular contraction. Fig. 6 shows the tracing obtained in complete heart-block ; the ventricles pursue one rhythm, the auricles another. In some sphygmograms of the radial pulse in heart-block the auricular waves appear as a series of notches in the descending line of the tracing (Mackenzie). G. A. Gibson points out that on auscultation it is often possible to hear the faint sounds produced by the auricles during the intervals between the ventricular beats. Ritchie has shown that (as in experimental block) the paralysing effect of atropine on the vagus affects only the auricles; in an observation of this kind the auricular rate rose to 275, while the ventricles continued to beat at 36. The inde- pendent rhythm of the two sets of chambers can be demonstrated on the fluorescent screen, or by the electrometer (Gibson). The blood- Fig. 6.—Complete heart-block, the auricles pursuing one rhythm (a) the ventricle another. (After Mackenzie.) pressure may be well maintained even when the pulse is very infrequent. In a case of Gibson's, with a rate of 25, the maximum pressure reached 270; in another the maximum was 230, the minimum 75. The syncopal attacks which go to make up the Stokes-Adams syndrome have already been described, and need only a brief mention here. They vary greatly in frequency and severity. They may consist merely of a dazed feeling of short duration, with some restlessness or faint- ness ; from this, up to serious or fatal syncope attended by Cheyne-Stokes respiration, all grades occur. They have the common feature, however, of being attended by a cessation of the pulse lasting for several seconds, and when the beat returns it may for some time be less frequent than prior to the seizure. Whether this temporary abrogation of the action of the ventricles is the cause or effect of the seizures was for long in dispute; it is now, however, agreed that in these cases the stoppage of the pulse precedes, and is the cause of, the attack. Syncopal attacks may supervene either in partial