189 HYPERCHLORHYDRIA considers that each case should be treated according to its cause. Treatment of Hypbrchlorhydria.—Two different lines of dietetic treatment, each have their advocates. In one the carbohydrates are limited; in the other a mixed diet, with abundant carbohydrates, is given. Russell, who limits the amount of carbohydrates, explains the symptoms in the following way :— AVhen the equilibrium between the amount of gastric secretion required to digest a meal and the quantity of food in the stomach is upset, and there is, in consequence, excess of HCl, the result is that the proteid elements of the food are digested with exceptional alacrity and pass out of the stomach, while the carbo- hydrate elements are retained. The retained unaltered starch keeps up the gastric secretion, while presenting no constituent with which the acid can combine. At this stage, the gastric contents are extremely acid, and contain only a residue of unaltered starch. The perpetual recurrence of this state of matters ultimately leads to catarrh and atonic dilata- tion. Russell advises the administration of alkalies, the restriction of the diet to the actual requirements, and the limitation or exclusion of unaltered starches, especially l)read and potato. In bad cases he gives a purely proteid diet (raw eggs) for a day or two. When the paroxysms are severe, immedi- ate relief is given by withdrawal of the acrid stomach contents. On the other hand, those who advocate a mixed diet, with liberal carbohydrate, do so on the ground that proteids tend to provoke a more active secretion of gastric juice than do the starches. The following points may be noted :—Pawlow's work has shown that the extractives of meat are par excellence among exciters of gastric secretion {see Digestion). Hence soups, beef extracts, beef tea, and underdone beef should be excluded from the food. In the same way, the food should be bland, and should not require much mastica- tion, in order that the stomach may be stim- ulated neither by the food itself, nor reflexly by the act of chewing. Alcohol and spices are forbidden. The meals should not exceed three in the day, and no food should be taken between meals, unless there is pain, when a little milk may be allowed to fix the free hydrochloric acid. Fat checks the secretion of gastric juice, hence it should enter liberally into the diet; it also checks the tendency to constipation which is so common. Soluble carbohydrates, particularly solutions of sugar, lead to a very scanty production of acid. A dry diet is inadvisable. Among the articles of diet permitted are eggs, butter, boiled meats, steamed fish, milk, the milder forms of cheese, especially cream cheese, oysters, sardines, cream, most vegetables and farinaceous foods, both of which must be well boiled. Starchy food should be taken as early during a meal as possible. Jams, jellies, and creams are allow- able. Drugs.—Alkalies are always given. Car- bonate of magnesia is best, on account of its laxative action. A teaspoonful should be taken when the discomfort begins. The irritability of the stomach is relieved by bismuth or nitrate of silver. Boas prescribes sodium citrate after meals in place of sodium bicarbonate. Bickel recommends atropin to diminish the gastric secretion. Large doses of olive oil are advocated by Cohnheim. He gives it either in a single dose of 2-3 ozs. by the stomach tube every morning, or in |-oz. doses before each meal. REFERENCES.—Russell, Brit. Med. Joiirn., 18th April 1903.—Bickel, Arch. f. Verdauunysk., Bd. xiii. Hft. 6, 1907.— Boas, Deutsche med. Wochensch., p. 135, 1907.—Strauss, Diiitbehandlung innerer Krankheileii (Berlin), 1908.—Cohnheim, New York Med. Journ., 12th Oct. 1907.—Salisbury, Therapeutic Record, 15th Jan. 1906. Hypermyotrophy. — See Arterial Hypertonus. Hyperpiesis.—See Arterio-Sclerosis {Definition). Hypertrichosis. — Hypertrichosis in females may be successfully cured by X-rays, but the hair requires to be repeatedly brought out by the rays before it ceases to regrow. A reaction from X-rays is to be avoided, as that greatly increases the subsequent atrophic con- dition of the skin; but at the best, some atrophy of the skin is bound to be produced before the hairs are permanently destroyed. This method of treatment should only be undertaken by an expert. REFERENCES.—JUTASST, Fortsch. a, d. Geb. d. Rontrjensk., ii. p. 194, 1898-99.—Keinbock, Verhandl, d. deutsche derm. Gesellsch. (Breslau), 1901. Hypnoidal State and Hypnoid- isation.—Hypnosis, as a means of psycho- therapy, has proved to have limitations; many patients hesitate to place themselves under its influence, having exaggerated fears of being too much under the power of the hypnotiser; some patients can only with diiiiculty be hypnotised or not at all, and not a few of the members of the medical profession altogether distrust this form of treatment, or are sceptical of its benefits. For the above reasons attempts have been made to make use of a sort of inter- mediate mental condition, the sub-waking or hypnoidal state ; this, on the one hand, touches on the waking state, and, on the other, merges into hypnosis and sleep. Boris Sidis has pointed out that this is a state of suggesti- bility in which mental life can be affected