DEPORTATION OF VILLI 112 tion of villi or of the syncytium or Langhans's cells covering them in the wall of the pregnant uterus, and their transference in the blood stream to other parts of the body. See Ectopic Pregnancy {Pathology). Dermatitis Artefacta.—Inflamma- tion of the skin, produced by chemical or mechanical means employed by the patient himself or herself in malingering, or for the feigning of disease. See articles by Norman Walker {Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1910, p. 1481), and Adamson {Ibid., ii. for 1910, p. 15). De Seig^neux'sCervical Dilator. —See Accouchement Force {Methods). Desmoid Reaction.—^S'ee Digestive Functions, Tests for the (Sahli's Reaction.) Desmon.—A synonymous term for am- boceptor or immune body ; it is hardly ever used now. See Immunity. Determinants.—In the language of heredity, as set forth byWeismann, determinants are biophores or groups of biophores, each of which " controls or determines the structure and function of one particular cell area of the body"; combinations of determinants are termed ids. Diabetes. — Pancreatic Diabetes. — Opie's work on the relation of pancreatic disease has attracted a great deal of attention, but his views are not universally held as proved correct. According to his theory, diabetes is associated with a lesion of the bodies in the pancreas known as the islands of Langerhans. Opie described two forms of interstitial pancreatitis—an inter- lobular and an interacinar type. In the inter- acinar variety the chief new development of connective tissue takes place between the acini, and is likely to involve the islands of Langer- hans. The lesion characteristic of diabetes is either a disappearance of many or all of the islands, or a hyaline degeneration. The pan- creas may show no changes to the naked eye, although extensively involved on microscopic examination. On this theory it is easy to ex- plain why some cases of gross lesion of the pancreas are associated with diabetes, and others not; and also why in some cases of diabetes the pancreas appears diseased, while in others it is healthy to the naked eye. The theory involves the assumption that the islands are intimately related to carbohydrate metabol- ism, possibly by furnishing an internal secretion to the body fluids. A very ingenious explana- tion of the nature of the glycolytic action of the pancreas has been promidgated by Cohnheim. He found that, whereas neither pancreatic juice (expressed from the crushed gland) nor muscle juice was glycolytic, a mixture of the two was actively glycolytic. He suggests that the two tissues provide com- plement and amboceptor respectively, which together split up glucose, or, alternatively, that the muscle juice contains a proenzyme, which requires to be activated by a pancreatic ferment before it becomes glycolytic. The objections to Opie's theory of the function of the islands of Langerhans are partly based on the anatomy and development of the structures (see Diges- tion, p. 118). Van Noorden states that Cohn- heim's experiments have been completely dis- proved by experiments in his laboratory. He believes that probably all cases of real diabetes are of pancreatic origin, but doubts whether Langerhans islands are really blood glands. Renal Diabetes.—Phloridzinpoisoningleads to diabetes—" phloridzin diabetes." This is due to a lesion of the renal epithelium, whereby the cells become permeable to the sugar normally present in the blood. Attempts have been made to show that renal diabetes may occur in man (apart, of course, from phloridzin diabetes, which is only observed experimentally in animals). In renal diabetes it would be neces- sary to prove (1) that the glycosuria was largely independent of the carbohydrates of the food, and (2) that the sugar in the blood was at least not increased, but rather diminished, in conse- quence of the loss by the kidneys. Klemperer's case is usually quoted in support of the exist- ence of " renal dial)etes." The patient suffered from chronic nephritis, and excreted consider- able quantities of sugar, but did not suffer from hyperglycemia. Van Noorden looks on the case as doubtful. He points out that, if renal diabetes exists, it must have a clinical course quite different from ordinary diabetes, agreeing only in having glycosuria as a symptom. There is great doubt as to whether true renal diabetes actually exists. Diabetes and Obesity.—That diabetes is often associated with obesity is well known, and Van Noorden has recently brought forward a suggestive theory of the connection which exists between the two conditions. In health, the carbohydrate of the food which is not at once burned up or stored as glycogen is con- verted into fat. When carbohydrate metabolism is disturbed, this fat synthesis may also be affected. In some persons there is deficient power of katabolising carbohydrate, but fat synthesis is carried on; in others, both kata- bolism and fat synthesis are interfered with. In the former case the tissues would be bathed in fluid rich in sugar, which they could not assimilate, but which would be converted into fat. Such patients suffer from faulty metabolism of sugar, but do not eliminate it in the urine. They become obese; the " fat disease " masks the diabetes. Van Noorden gives the following clinical scheme:— " 1. There is the case in which the com-