LUMBAR PUNCTURE 245 LumbarPuncture.—(<S'e€ also Encyd. and Diet, of Med., IX., 306.)—Lumbar puncture is now fully recognised as a legitimate and valuable diagnostic procedure. It is simple, practically devoid of danger, and often gives information of the greatest possible worth. Technique.—In the adult the spinal cord terminates at the lower part of the first lumbar vertebra. Lvimbar puncture is performed be- tween this point and the upper sacral vertebrae, the site usually selected being between the third and fourth or fourth and fifth vertebrse. The position is easily determined by drawing a transverse line at the level of the highest point of the iliac crest, and puncturing below the spinous process which this line intersects— the fourth lumbar. The needle used should be about three inches long; it may be one of platinum and iridium specially made for the purpose, but an ordinary exploring needle answers pei-fectly well. It must be provided with a wire stylet to clear it if it becomes blocked. It is convenient to have the needle mounted on a syringe, which serves as a handle. The needle should be boiled before use, and the skin of the patient should be thoroughly puri- fied with lysol and ether. In performing lumbar puncture it is important to have the patient's spine flexed; in cases of meningitis this may necessitate the use of a general anaesthetic; otherwise ansesthesia is not required. In chil- dren, lumbar puncture may be performed as the patient lies in bed, the body being held in the flexed position by the hands of an assistant, one of which controls the head, the other the pelvis. In adults the operation may be performed with the patient either in the recumbent or stooping posture. The needle should be introduced in an interspace rather to one side of the middle line, and pushed steadily forwards with a slight inclination upwards and inwards. The most common error is to direct the point too much up and in. The tissues through which the needle has to pass are somewhat dense, and it is generally easy to feel when the point has entered the subarachnoid pond. In place of introducing the needle laterally the middle line may be selected and the puncture made directly forwards and slightly upwards. When the needle is felt to have entered the subarachnoid space the syringe is removed to allow the fluid to escape. If none flows out the stylet should be passed to clear the needle, and if this man- oeuvre fails, the needle may be pushed in a little farther, lest it should not actually have entered the spinal canal, or very gentle suction may be made with the syringe. As a rule the fluid drops out freely, and may be collected in a sterile tube. The first few drops should be rejected, lest they be accidentally contaminated with blood. Exceptions.—L ''Dry Taps." It is some- times impossible to withdraw fluid by lumbar puncture. The reason for this is not always apparent. In some cases it is due to occlusion of the channels between brain and spinal canal. In commencing hydrocephalus from meningitis a "dry tap" is a bad sign for this reason. 2. Hmnorrhage. If the fluid is blood - stained, cytological examination is useless. The fluid may be hsemorrhagic either because of a cer e- bral hsemorrhage, or, much more commonly, from wound of one of the subarachnoid veins. This is most likely to occur if the needle is thrust in too far, and impinges against the venous plexes on the bodies of the vertebra. Dangerous haemorrhage into the spinal canal may occur in this way. 3. Injury to Cauda Equina. If a trunk of the Cauda equina be touched, the patient may complain of pain shooting down the legs. Headache may follow the operation. Lumbar puncture, however, is a very safe proceeding; haemorrhage is the only real danger, and this can to a large extent be prevented by not making the puncture too deep. Quantity of Fluid Withdrawn.—In most cases it is suflicient to withdraw 5 or 10 c.c. of cerebro-spinal fluid. When the fluid is under great pressure it may be allowed to escape until the pressure falls. In infants the efl'ect which is being produced may be judged of by noting the fall in the tension of the anterior fon- tanelle. It is undesirable to withdraw more fluid than is necessary, as temporary collapse may occur. Cerebro-Spinal Fluid.—The cerebro-spinal fluid is a secretion, probably from the choroid plexus, not an exudation (Mott). Normally, it is a perfectly limpid fluid containing no true albumin or fibrinogen ; it yields traces of a Fehling-reducing body, not sugar. It has a specific gravity of 1006-1008, is sterile, and is practically free from cells. From a diagnostic point of view the physical characters, chemical characters, bacteriology, and cytology of the fluid have to be considered ; the last is the most important. 1. Physical Characters.—(Y) Pressure. Normal fluid emerges from the needle in drops at the rate of 2 to 3 per second ; in pathological con- ditions it may drop out more rapidly, flow out in a continuous stream, or even spurt out in a jet of some length. It is not difficult to judge from observing the rate of flow whether or not the fluid is under pressure, and the knowledge so gained is sufficiently accurate for practical purposes. The pressure can, however, be meas- ured easily enough. A glass tube about 18 ins. long, with a bore of about ~ in., is connected by an inch of rubber tube to the needle, and the height to which the fluid rises when the tube is held upright, is measured. The normal pressure is about 125 mm. HjO ; in disease {e.g. tuberculous meningitis) it may rise to 700 mm. or more. The chief information obtained from