THYROID, SURGERY OF 369 damage to the brain, above all mental shock. This, probably, accounts for some deaths soon after operation (see a paper by Crile, Aniiah of Surgery, June 1910). When the pulse has become very irregular, especially in tension, there is danger of heart failure after operation. Operations on patients suffering from albu- minuria and nephritis are also very dangerous, and should be postponed until the symptoms have improved under treatment. The greatest risk of all is the presence of the status lym- 'pliaticus — enlargement of the lymphatics, thymus, spleen. Status lymphaticus develops early in the course of the disease. Kocher states that he has not seen a single case in which the patient has not benefited from opera- tion, and urges that the disease should be treated surgically in its early stage, not leaving to the surgeon, " after the ship has gone on the rocks, to deal with the wreckage." In the discussion which followed, Hector Mackenzie agreed as to the frequency of lymphatism in exophthalmic goitre. His experience of opera- tion was much less favourable than that of Kocher; he has not seen any cases he should consider cured, and doubted whether Kocher got the same class of case to operate on as are found in England. A large proportion of the cases seen abroad seem to be of the mild type. Under medical treatment 36 per cent, of hospital cases recover completely, 23 per cent, die. In private the results are much better. Bruce of Toronto gave as collected surgical results 4 per cent, mortality, 16 per cent, absolute cures, 85 per cent, enough improve- ment to enable patients to lead a normal life. Most of the other speakers favoured operation in exophthalmic goitre. In coiuiection with the question of the operative treatment of Graves's disease, an interesting paper by Hale White {Quarterly Journal of Medicine, Oct. 1910) on "The Outlook of Sufferers from Exophthalmic Goitre " may be referred to. It is based on an attempt to follow up the after-history of a large series of hospital and private cases. Of 169 hospital cases, 21 died in hospital and 54 can be traced. Of these, 49 were not operated on. Added to these, 53 private cases not operated on—102 in all. The total deaths among them were 15, the expected deaths, according to the " Healthy Females Experience Table," should have been 8. These cases were all either ill enough («) to go into hospital, or (6) to desire a second opinion, and probably the inclusion of all cases of goitre, therefore of many slight cases, would make a better showing. As it is, the mortality, though not high, is about double the expected death-rate. On the other hand, 18 cases died in hospital without operation— 26 in all, of a known series of 68. This, how- ever, is too high, because 94 hospital patients could not be traced; but, assuming the mor- tality to be the same as those who left hospital and were traced, we get a total mortality of 41 out of 161 hospital cases. Taking hospital and private cases together, we get a total of 48 deaths in 214 patients, or 1 to 4-5. Hale White comes to the conclusion that, apart from the most encouraging statistics (Kocher, Mayo), the figures given by most surgeons are not materially better than these, when it is remembered that cases selected for operation are usually mild cases, and that if the very bad cases are excluded medical statistics give a low mortality. A large proportion of the cases followed up are not only alive, but absolutely cured; many have married, borne children without ill effect. Very few, only 5 out of 87, have not improved. Patients who are once cured do not often relapse. The most important factor in the treatment is rest in bed, with freedom from anxiety. Probably it is be- cause private patients are better able to rest than hospital ones that the outlook for the latter is more serious than for the former. Technique.—Ether is the best ansesthetic, preceded by \ gr. of morphia, and ^^-^ grain of atropine to diminish the amount of bronchial secretion. The patient is placed in the reversed Trendelenburg position (head raised), and a transverse incision is made midway between the thyroid cartilage and sternum (Collar, or Kocher, incision) through the skin and platysma. The hyoid muscles are then separated by a vertical incision, reaching from the thyroid cartilage to the sternum. If the tumour is not very large, access may be got to it by separating the muscles; if more room is re- quired, the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid may be divided near their upper insertions, so as to cut above their nerve supply, and turned down. The gland is now dissected out from above and without downwards and inwards, the superior thyroid vessels being tied as early as possible. The posterior part of the capsule should be preserved so as to protect the parathyroids and recurrent laryngeal nerve from injury. The inferior thyroid vessels must also be found and tied. The isthmus is clamped, divided, and closed by suture. Great care is necessary in tying the superior thyroid vessels, as haemorrhage from them is a rela- tively frequent cause of death. This is usually due to the inclusion in the ligature of some fibres of the omohyoid, which may be dis- lodged by movements of the neck. If a large cut surface of the gland is exposed, it may be swabbed with pure carbolic followed by alcohol, or Harrington's solution (alcohol, 640; water, 300; hydrochloric acid, 60; mercury per- chloride, 8) may be brushed over it to close the lymphatics. The wound should be freely drained. To delay absorption, large quantities 24