ABORTION 14 time there may be a tubal pregnancy. In such cases reliance must be placed on the bimanual examination carefully carried out, and the detec- tion by this means of a tumour at the side of or behind the uterus when it is an ectopic gestation, and the absence of this swelling when it is an uncomplicated abortion. The difficult cases ar'e the retroversions of the gravid uterus and the interstitial and cornual pregnancies. It has sometimes been main- tained that the cervix uteri does not soften in ectopic pregnancy, and that this negative sign may be used in diagnosis; but Pinard (Compt. rend. Soc. d'obstet., de gyndc, et de pediat. de Paris, V. p. 108, 1903) insists that softening occurs Avhether the gestation be extra-uterine or intra- uterine, and that the firmness which is some- times observed is due to the death of the ovum. It is easy to mistake an "angular pregnancy," i.e. a case in which the ovum is implanted in the corner of the uterus over the tubal ostium, for an extra-uterine gestation ; and it is difficult to imagine a means of differentiating the one from the other, especially if the latter be of the tubo-uterine variety (Munro Kerr, Trans. Edin. Ohstet. Soc, xxxiii. p. 185, 1908). Treatment.—In the management of abor- tion there are several questions which must still be left unsettled ; liut, on the whole, there is a more marked tendency for operators and teachers to come into line upon all the more important matters. Nothing can be added to the various precautions which have been recommended in cases of recurrent abortion; but no obstetrician must omit the searching examination of the local and systemic organs of any woman who has repeatedly aborted, every care must be taken to remove or modify any causal state (uterine displacements, endo- metritis, syphilitic poisoning of one or other parent, etc.), and no rules can be too rigid for the hygiene, week by week, and even day by day, ■of any patient who has had several miscarriages. In the case of a threatened or evifable aboition there is an increasing tendency to exhaust every means of prevention before labelling the case (even in one's mind) as unavoidable. With a falling birth-rate it has become of the gi'eatest importance to conserve antenatal life (Ballan- tyne, Trans. Edin. Ohstet. Soc, xxxii. p. 23, 1906-7), and medical men are beginning to find that many threatened miscarriages may be averted if prolonged and rigorous care be taken. There is no noteworthy addition to our means of comlmting the tendency to abort: most practitioners rely on clearing out the I'ectum with an enema, on the insertion of a morphia suppositoiy, and on strict maintenance of the horizontal posture, with absence of all mental excitement and emotional disturbance. Medicines other than opium cannot be said to have established themselves as better uterine sedatives than morphia. There has been no increase in the means of preventing the empty- ing of the uterus ; but there has been increased rigour in the use made of the means already known and tested. So long as the uterus continues to grow, even if haemorrhage also continue to some extent, so long may the hope of the continuance of the pregnancy be retained. When, however, it has become evident that the abortion is inevitable, it is an almost univer- sal practice to endeavour to obtain the complete emptying of the uterus as quickly as possible. While there are still some practitioners who prefer to trust to vaginal douching, followed by vaginal plugging and the administration of an oxytocic drug (e.g. ergot or quinine), there is an increasing tendency to evacuate the uterus with greater rapidity and completeness by means of the finger or the ovum forceps. If the os be dilated to the extent of allowing two fingers to pass in, it is difficult to understand why there should be any delay in emptying the uterus digitally, unless indeed it be the fact that by so doing the interference comes to be regarded as an "operation," and is necessarily accompanied by the administration of an anaesthetic. The advantages of this rapid evacuation are the thoroughness with which it can be carried out (the operator's left hand pressing down the uterus so as to bring its whole interior under the influence of the curetting fingers), the diminution of the probability of any fragments of the sac being left behind, and the shorter convalescence which follows. Of course the vulva should be thoroughly cleansed and the vagina douched (before and after the scraping out of the uterus); the cavity of the uterus should also be washed out with a two-way tube, sterilised water at 118° F. being used, and the douche not being held high; and the uterus and vagina should be packed with gauze (iodo- form, nosophen, or simple sterilised). Whilst this plan of procedure is being more generally adopted in cases of inevitable abortion, there are still many men (e.g. H. J. Boldt, Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc, xlvi. p. 791, 1906) who would trust to vaginal packing and the use of an oxytocic if the cervix be not dilated. Un- doubtedly the closure of the cervix causes a difficulty which can only be got over by dilata- tion with metal or rubber cones or with the more slowly acting tents; a risk is thus intro- duced, but it must be remembered that an in- evitable abortion with a closed cervix is always a dangerous case, and it is maintained by some that the dilatation of the cervical canal (with a carefully prepared tent) and the rapid empty- ing of the uterine cavity do not increase but diminish the consequent risk. Of course the dilatation must be carried out with care, and the aseptic precautions must be complete. In incomplete abortions nothing is to be gained by waiting, for the use of oxytocic drugs (such as ergot) cannot be trusted to cause complete