LABOUR, INDUCTION OF PREMATURE 224 of pregnancy, that which has perhaps had most weight has been the high mortality amongst the infants both at birth and within some days or weelts thereafter. In 1902 Ballantyne {Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1903, p. 1196) insisted that the problem of the premature infant was the root-difficulty standing in the way of a more general acceptance of the operation of induction of premature labour. So long as a third or a half of all infants l^rought prematurely into the world perished at or soon after birth, so long the operation which brought them there (however well performed and however safe it might be for the mother) would suffer obloquy. Obstetricians had to learn to keep premature infants in life if they were to continue pre- maturely to bring to a close their intra-uterine existence ; the survival of the premature infant was the necessary complement of its early arrival in the world. Ballantyne, therefore, emphasised the value of researches bearing on the anatomy, physiology, and pathology of the premature infant; and he pointed out the self-evident, but little recognised, fact that it was really a foetus placed before its time in an extra-uterine environment which severely tried all its tissues and organs. Camille Hahn's work {These (Paris), 1901) on the characters, prognosis, and treatment of premature infants, marked a noteworthy advance in the right direction ; and the improvement of the in- cubator, the scientific study and management of the feeding of such young infants, the aseptic treatment of the umbilical cord, and perhaps the addition of iron to the dietary (as suggested by Ballantyne, loc. cit.) may before long so improve the infant's chances of survival as to do away with this, the most serious, objection to the operation of induction of premature labour. At the same time it must not be forgotten that each advance in our successful treatment of the prematurely born infant will tend to push back- wards a little the earliest date of viability, and so make possible the performance of induction at an earlier week of pregnancy; in this way there will be a temptation to induce labour earlier in higher degrees of pelvic deformity, and so, for a time, the advances that have been made and the difficulties overcome may be overshadowed by a further advance which brings with it new olostacles. Nevertheless it is in this direction that progress is to be looked for ; indeed, it is essential for the very survival of the operation that the peculiai'ities of the prematurely born infant be studied, and that he be fitted as far as is possible to his environment. From what has been stated, it will easily be understood that the indications for the perform- ance of the operation of induction of pre- mature labour are not, at the present time, well defined. With regard to the commonest indi- cation, the existence of a degree of pelvic con- traction which makes it unlikely that a full-time infant can be extracted alive and uninjured through the canals by forceps, version, or the unaided efl:brts of Nature, there is a tendency to limit its performance to those cases in which the conjugata vera measures from 3^ to 3^^ inches (see Munro Kerr's Operative Midwifery, pp. 442-444, 1908; and Baisch's Reformen in der Therapie des engeri Becke7is {hei'pzig), 1907). But the pelvic measurements are not enough in themselves to decide whether induction should or should not be performed; one must take into account the size and state of ossification of the foetal head, for if these be above the average even a conjugate of 3| inches may no longer be large enough to warrant the opera- tion. It is also necessary to remember that the age of the foetus cannot always be ascer- tained with certainty, and that even when it can be fixed it does not follow that all foetuses of the same age are of the same size. Whilst various plans of antenatal mensuration of the foetus and of its head-diameters have been tried, there seems now to be a consensus of opinion that Miiller's method or its modifica- tion by Hirst or Munro Kerr {Journ. Obstet. and Gynoic. Brit. Emj)., iii. p. 341 ; iv. p. 293, 1903), by which the foetal head is pressed down into the pelvic brim, and made to act as the pelvimeter, is the most satisfactory (Cooke, Amer. Journ. Obstet., Iv. p. 753, 1907). By means of Miiller's grasp applied every other day or so the obstetrician will be able to choose the most suitable time for induction, for, of course, so long as the foetal head can be pressed easily through the pelvic brim there is no im- mediate necessity for the induction of labour. Apart from this, however, it may be stated generally that there is little hope of saving the infant if labour be induced before the thirty-fourth week {i.e. six weeks before the full term), and that the most hopeful date is the thirty-sixth week. The obstetrician who is considering induction of premature labour for pelvic contraction is ever on the horns of a dilemma; if he iiiduces it before the thirty-fourth week in order to get a foetus small enough to pass through the maternal canals, the infant will almost always fail to j survive its birth, while if he waits till after fl the thirty-sixth week the child may be too I large or have too well ossified a head to pass m or be drawn alive through the pelvis. He must also act in accordance with an opinion founded upon three things, none of which can be accurately estimated, viz. the age of the preg- nancy, the size of the internal pelvic diameters, and the size of the foetal head (Morse, Amer. Journ. Obstet., liv. p. 824, 1906). Yet, with all its difficulties and disadvantages, the induc- tion of labour is a valuable method of dealing with pelvic contractions of moderate amount; it has a very low maternal mortality, it in- volves no such cutting as pubiotomy and