366 TATOO MARKS soap and water, then tatoo the skin with eight or ten fine cambric needles tied together and •dipped in glycerole of papoid [glycerinum papain], driving the needles into the tissues so as to deposit the digestive in the corium, v/here the carbon is located. Repeat as necessary. The pigment is liberated by the digestant. Taylor's Diet.—An ash-free diet con- sisting of the whites of 18 eggs, 120 grams of olive oil, and 200 grams of crystallised sugar; it is given when it is desired to study the chlorides of the urine. Telectro - Card iogf rams. — See Heart, Diseases of (Einthoveri's Work). Test Meals.—See Digestive Functions, Tests for the {Schmidt's Test Diet); RiegEL's Test Meal, etc. Tetan us.—Post-operative Tetanus.—The accident of tetanus supervening after a surgical operation has been discussed in a paper by W. Gr. Richardson [British Medical Journal, 17th April 1909), who lost a patient, on whom he had operated for gall - stones, from this cause. The operation was performed on the last day of September, the initial symptoms of tetanus developed six days later, and the patient died within forty-eight hours of their onset. Richardson has collected records of twenty-one such cases, and in all of them, including his own, catgut was used for liga- tures. In his case, and in fourteen of the others, the catgut was examined bacteriologi- cally. In four cases a bacillus resembling B. tetani was recovered, and in one, though the catgut was sterile, a bacillus was cultivated from the pedicle of an ovarian cyst. Apparently none of the bacilli cultivated infected experi- mental animals. In Richardson's own case the catgut was sterile. Thus, in spite of careful seai'ch, there is no positive proof that catgut is to blame for the occasional occurrence of post^operative tetanus. Richardson also found that practically all the raw catgut used for ligatures throughout the United Kingdom comes from Germany, and if it were the vehicle of infection, tetaiuis ought to occur in all parts of the country. The south and east of England, however, are exempt. Now there exists among sheep a group of disorders allied to tetanus, the bacilli of which can scarcely be distinguished from B. tetani. In these diseases the bacilli are normal denizens of the bowel, but at certain seasons pass into the blood, and give rise to symptoms. During these seasons the bacilli are found in the peritoneum and in no other part of the body. These diseases are endemic in certain parts of Great Britain, and (a) the 21 cases of post - operative tetanus have occurred only in these districts ; (6) more than 90 per cent, of post-operative tetanus follows operations involving opening of the peritoneal cavity. Richardson's suggestions are:—(1) Post-operative tetanus is not true tetanus, but one of this group of "sheep tetanus." (2) It is not introduced by catgut, but that the patient, at the time of the operation, harbours the bacillus. (3) The disease is idiopathic tetanus, but it is not to be assumed that it would have developed irrespective of the performance of an operation. Treatment.—In America, where tetanus is so common a sequel of accidental gunshot wounds received on the 4th of July (1907, 73 cases; 1908, 76 cases; 1909, 150 cases.—Census com- piled by the Journal of the American Medical Association) the practice of treating patients who have sustained lacerated wounds in which there is a possibility or probability of infec- tion, by prophylactic injections of serum is becoming common. As regards serum treat- meut when the symptoms are actually present, opinions differ concerning the best channel of administration. Hessert states that none of the special methods have proved of any great value, and advises the subcutaneous route. Kuster {Therapie d. Gegenioart, Feb. 1907) points out that the poison of tetanus travels along the nerve trunks, and recommends intra- neural injections into the nerves supplying the area wounded, especially in cases of localised tetanus, and intraspinal injections when there is trismus. (For experimental work in connec- tion with intraneural injections of antitoxin, see Meyer and Ransom, Arch. f. Exper. Path, u. Pharmacologic, 1903; Marie and Morax, Annales de I'lnst. Pasteiir, 1902-3 ; for clinical aspects, Rogers, Joi&n. Arner. Med^ Assoc., 1st July 1905.) Kenyoun {Journ. Amer. Med. Association, 18th Aug. 1906) has emplo3'ed the dried antitoxin as a dressing. Intracerebral and intravenous injections have also been employed. It seems rational to em.ploy a combination of methods—e.g. when the wound is being exposed for the purpose of purifying it to inject antitoxin into the main nerves lead- ing to it, and at the same time to give an intravenous or intraspinal injection of 10-15 c.c. Intrasp>inal injection of magnesium sulphate is one of the latest methods of treatment. Haubold and Meltzer {Journ. Amer. Med. Association, 3rd March 1906) show that this salt, which, when applied locally, lowers the conductivity and excitability of motor and sensory nerves, may be used as a spinal anajs- thetic, and although it is probably too danger- ous to compete with such anaesthetics as stovaine, eucaine, etc., it has been taken up in the treatment of tetanus, in which spinal anes- thesia by eucaine B. and morphine had already been successfull}'' employed. The salt is used in solution of the strength of 25 per cent., 1 c.c.