INTESTINES, SURGERY OF THE 213 staltic or antiperistaltic action; in the latter, an artificial opening must be made (if there lie no existing fistula) with the skin surface for draining the segment, but on a later occasion another operation may be done and the excluded segment entirely removed, or it may even be found to be possible to reinstate it in the intestinal tract. Another operative procedure which is some- times undertaken in cases of intestinal obstruc- tion is enterotomy (Nelaton's operation), or the opening of the bowel above the seat of occlusion and the evacuation of the contents. Since it is customary not only to incise the bowel but also to establish a faecal fistula with the cutaneous surface, the name enterostomy would be more exact than enterotomy. The operation is for the small intestine what colotomy is for the large. The opening in the abdominal wall is made either in the right iliac region or in the middle line below the umbilicus, and may be from two to three inches in length. A distended loop of bowel is drawn into the opening with its free border pr-ojecting, and the skin incision is narrowed by some through-and-through sutures at each end so as to fix the bowel in position. Next with fine silk sutui'es the intestine is attached very carefully to the skin ; the sutures pass through the skin and through the peritoneal and muscular (not the mucous) coats of the bowel. If there be no urgency the rest of the operation may be postponed, but if the symptoms of obstruction be marked the opening of the bowel must be at once proceeded with. The area to be incised is determined upon, and a purse-string suture passed round it; an opening within the area thus circum- scribed is made, a tube {e.g. a Paul's rectangular glass tube) introduced, and the purse-string suture is tightened and fixed round the groove in the tube; and, finally, the tube should be packed round with sterile gauze and a long and thin india-rubber tube placed in it to carry off the bowel contents (which are fluid) to & suitable receptacle. Many modifications are in use in performing enterotomy, and the plan described is that recommended by Treves and Hutchinson {Operative Surgery, pp. 280-285, 1909); but if time be not pressing, a useful procedure is to unite the peritoneum in the wound to the skin surface before bringing the loop of intestine oat, for then in the later stages peritoneum is brought into contact with peritoneum and a firmer union established. Other surgical procedures affecting the in- testines are described in the Encyclopedia and Dictionary of Medicine, under the headings Appendicitis, Colotomy, Hernia, Surgical Diseases of the Intestines, etc. Invertase.—See Digestion {Intestinal Juice). Ioda.lb£iciol.—A medicinal substance in which iodine is combined with a protein. lodalia..—A medicinal substance in which iodine is combined with sugar and tannin. IOCla.lOSe.—An alkaline-iodide substitute, in which the iodine is combined with peptone. lodan.—A solution of iodine in goose- grease, recommended as a substitute for the alkaline iodides. lodca.Sein.—An iodoform substitute, forming a yellow, insoluble (in water) powder ; it is composed of iodine and casein. Iodide Substitutes.—The disagree- able results which may follow the internal administration of alkaline iodides have led to the introduction of various substitutes supposed to obviate these results ; among the substitutes may be named certain protein combinations, such as iodalbin and iodalia, some saturated oils, such as iodipalin and iodipin, as well as the propane combination (iothion), iodival, and sajodin, iodipcliin.—A substitute for the alkaline iodides, in the form of an oil saturated with 10, 20, or .30 per cent, iodine. See Fortescue- Brickdale, Newer Remedies, p. 19, 1910. lodiva,!.—A substitute for the alkaline iodides, being a compound of valerianic acid and urea, containing one atom of the halogen element in place of a hydrogen ; it contains 47 per cent, of iodine. See Fortescue-Brickdale, Newer Remedies, p. 21, 1910. iOdofa,n. — An iodoform substitute, forming a reddish-yellow, crystalline powder which has no odour; it is an " addition product of formaldehyde and iododioxy-ben- zene (Cg H3.1. (0H)2) in which iodine is in the ring." {See Fortescue-Brickdale, Newer Remedies, p. 14, 1910. iodoformog'en.—An iodoform substi- tute in which the iodoform is combined with albumin; it is a yellowish, nearly odourless powder, which can be sterilised by heating. See Fortescue-Brickdale, Newer Remedies, p. 11, 1910. lodoformoi.—An iodoform substitute, being a hydriodide of ethyl-hexa-methylene- tetramine (ethyl-urotropin), and acting as a powerful antiseptic ; but it is easily decomposed with the production of iodoform vapour. See Fortescue-Brickdale, Newer Remedies, p. 11, 1910.