8 ABDOMINAL SECTION than resumption of the erect posture after ab- dominal section. The conventional rigid im- mobility was, no doubt, wrong in principle, and systematised movements without leaving the horizontal position give a means of preserving muscular tone and general health without the risk of thrombosis and embolism. The immediate management after abdominal section is concerned with avoiding evil results from the anissthetic and from shock. The patient, well wrapped in blankets and already partly conscious, is to be transferred to a bed prepared by having hot bottles in it. Too much care cannot be taken to prevent burns from these bottles, as such burns are easily inflicted during the semi-conscious weakened condition of the patient; they ought to be separated from him by the blanket, and a nurse ought to be in charge to see that he does not disturb them by his restlessness. The head is kept low. The nurse will also watch the respira- tion and pulse, and will be ready to support the abdominal wall with the hands if vomiting (from the anesthetic) occur. Oxygen inhalation is often of benefit. Morphia is, as a rule, to be avoided, but the use of warm saline enemata (1 or 2 pints) is of great value in the state of post-operative shock, and many surgeons order such as a matter of routine. A stimulant (whisky or brandy) may be added to the saline, and strychnine may be given hypodermically. The enemata lessen the thirst and restore fluid to the circulation, and so they enable the patient to get through the first eight or nine hours without swallowing anything by the mouth. Certainly, the less given in this way the better. Ice is generally condemned, and the best thing will be hot water in small quantities (table- spoonful) every two hours; but, as has been said, low saline enemata (every six hours) will greatly lessen the need for putting anything into the stomach, and will thus prevent much of the distress of the post-operative sickness. The stage of reaction, indicated by the rising of the temperature from subnormal to normal, should be watched; it may be accompanied by free diaphoresis, rendering it necessary to change the patient's underclothing. The temperature is not likely to rise above 100° F. during the first twenty-four hours. An opportunity should be given, some eight or ten hours after operation, for the patient to pass his urine ; the use of the catheter may be needed, but in most abdominal operations its employment is little called for. During the second tiventy-four hours in normal cases the temperature may be a little over the 100° (possibly 100-6° in the evening), with a tendency to fall to the normal. If vomiting should continue, the drinking of a quantity of warm water containing soda will relieve the patient by causing free vomiting, but if it be bilious in type and still continue, washing out the stomach with a stomach tube will often be beneficial, and may save the patient prolonged nausea. Vomiting and nausea which continue beyond the second twenty-four hours usually point to commencing peritonitis; in such cases the washing out of the stomach is to be done, followed by the administration (by the tube) of a saline cathartic (e.g. an ounce or two of magnesium sulphate). During the second day, if the nausea has stopped, the hot water by the mouth is continued, or a little hot tea may be given in its place; milk, as a rule, is to be avoided, as it increases flatulence, but meat juice will sometimes be very welcome. The pulse will be in most cases about 100 for the first two days, and ought to fall below that towards the close of the second day; if it remains quick thereafter, more especially with a rising temperature, there is danger. The patient's position should still (on the second twenty-four hours) be mainly dorsal, and may be entirely so unless he finds it irksome; but he may be turned on the side if it be thought desiraljle. It is well to have the bowels thoroughly moved on the morning of the third day; some operators, indeed, employ an earlier catharsis, giving medicine (e.g. 2 grains of calomel, followed by fractional doses) twenty-four hours after the operation. At any rate, by the evening of the second day, or early in the morning of the third, the purgative should be administered. Many surgeons give magnesium sulphate (as Henry's solution) or citrate of magnesium, but the more old-fashioned plan of giving castor-oil should not be lightly aban- doned, for it is often most satisfactory. In any case, the action of the purgative may be aided and made more complete by an enema {e.g. of turpentine). The passing of flatus on the second day and the thorough evacuation of the bowels on the third day are very good indica- tions that the patient is doing well. The pass- age of flatus may be aided by the passage of a rectal tube of soft rubber, and the tube may be left in for a few minutes; this manoeuvre will be specially valuable on the second day when distension is complained of. After the bowels have been well moved liquid food may be given more freely, and on the fourth day tea and toast, milk, beef-tea, and possibly some boiled fish may be given in such quantity as the patient desires. On this day, also, the bowels should be moved again, preferalsly with an enema, and, afterwards, a purgative may be given—one twenty-four hours, and an enema the next, so as to keep the intestinal functions going on smoothly. Eggs may be added to the dietary on the fifth or sixth day, and meat on the seventh or eighth. The wound may be inspected about the sixth or seventh day, or earlier if pain in the incision or a rising temperature is noted; if through-and-through sutures have been used