H^MO-RENAL SALT INDEX 169 Haemo-renal Salt Index. — The ratio obtained by comparing the electrical re- sistance of the blood and of the urine; in health this is equal to three, four', or five whole numbers—viz. Electrical resistance of blood 900 ^ Electrical resistance of urine " 225 ' and the higher the number the healthier {ceteris paribus) the state of the patient; an increase in the index meant that the urine contained more salts and the blood fewer salts or was richer in corpuscles, whilst a diminution in the index indicated sluggish renal action. See Dawson Turner, Lancet^ i. for 1907, p. 58. Haemostasin.—One of many names for the active principle of the medulla of the adrenal gland. Hsemostasis, Momberg's Method.—Momberg has proposed as a method of checking haemorrhage in operations on the lower half of the body to apply a con- stricting band round the waist so as to com- press the abdominal aorta {Centralhl. f. Chir. 1908, No. 23). A rubber tube the thickness of the finger, stretched to its full extent, is gradually applied until the pulsations of the femoral artery can no longer be detected. The procedure was first tried on two healthy persons lor five minutes, and no evil effects resulted. An anajsthetic is not required for the application of the ligature, but after it has been on for one quarter to half an hour considerable pain is caused. It is said that for operation a smaller quantity of ansesthetic than usual is required, and that patients come out of its influence quickly when the ligature is relaxed on account of the detection of the ansesthetic by the released blood. At the German Surgical Congress, 1909, Momberg stated that he knew of thirty-four cases in which it had been employed without giving rise to any complication. The first result of applying the tourniquet is in some instances to increase the rate of the pulse, and, again, on removing the tourniquet ther'e may be disturb- ance of the circulation. Momberg's method has been used in ampu- tations at the hip, operations on the pelvis, excision of the rectum, prostatectomy, and the like, and so far as preventing haemorrhage is concerned, appears to be very successful. It is not, however, as safe a procedure as its inventor would have us believe. While in most case? the changes in the pulse rate on applying and removing the constriction are comparatively slight, in some cases they are serious. Thus Rimann reports a case {Zeitschift f. Chirurgie, May 1909) of collapse and heart-failure on the application of the tourniquet during the coarse of an operation for cancer of the rectum; and another in a healthy woman, where the tourniquet caused the blood pressure to fall rapidly from 115 mm. Hg to zero. Both recovered when the tourniquet was removed. Gross {Jiev. de Chirurgie^ May 1910) lost a patient after the operation was completed from collapse produced by removal of the tourniquet. Apart from collapse, paralysis of the bladder and rectum, cramps in the legs, hsemophysis, epistaxis, and haemorrhage from the intestine have been observed. So far as can be gathered from the reported cases it seems at present that Momberg's method labours under several dis- advantages, and though undoubtedly it will prove most valuable in selected cases, it cannot come into very general use. It should not be used in persons suffering from arteriosclerosis ; the constricting band should be applied and removed very slowly; the legs should be elevated and bandaged befoie the tourniquet is used, and the bandages should be slowly re- moved after the tourniquet is taken off". Although Momberg's method has been employed for operations lasting over an hour, it is prob- able that other methods of hajmostasis would be safer in prolonged operations. It is said to be of advantage to employ the Trendelenl)urg position along with Momberg's method. Haemothymia.—The term proposed by T. Claye Shaw for the condition of irresistible craving or lust for blood which is a prominent motive for murder in certain cases, leading the unfortunate and dangerous possessor of it to attack selected or in some instances indiscriminate victims {Lancet, i. for 1909, pp. 1735-1738). Haeser's Coefficient.—The multi- plier (2-33) by which the two last figures of the specific gravity of the urine are multiplied in order to get the approximate number of grams of total solids in every 1000 c.c. Haines' Coefficient.—The multi- plier (I'l) by which the last two figures of the specific gravity of the urine are multiplied in order to get (as the result) the number of grains of solids in each fluid ounce. Haines' Solution.—A test solution for the detection of glycosuria; it contains sulphate of copper (30 grains), water (half an ounce), glycerine (half an ounce), and liquor potassae (half an ounce): asmall quantity is boiled, and then a few drops of the suspected urine are added, and it is again boiled, when a yellowish or reddish precipitate indicates the presence of sugar. Hamartoma.—Albrecht's name for an angioma, which is simply a swelling composed of blood-vessels, and shows no independent growth of the vessels.