QUINIC ACID 320 Quinic Acid.—A reputed uric acid sol- vent, which has itself a bitter taste, but has been used in the form of a compound with urotropin (quinotropin), with urea (urol), and with piperazine (sidonal) ; the dose of quinic acid is 8 grains. Quinine - i-lydrochioro-Car- ba.niide. — A quinine substitute, being a compound of quinine and urea; it has the advantage of being soluble, and may therefore be used hypodermically (dose, 10 grains). Quinine Substitutes. —•S'ee Quin- APHTHOL, QUINAPHENIN, QUINOPYRIN, SaLO- QUiNiNE, Thalline, Thermifugine, etc. Quinopyi'in. — A quinine substitute, being a compound of antipyrin with quinine hydrochloride ; it is only for hypodermic use, being too toxic to give by the mouth. See Fortescue-Brickdale, Newer Remedies, p. 210, 1910. Quinotropin.—A reputed uric acid sol- vent, being a compound of quinic acid and urotropin; 90 grains a day may be given. Quinquaud's Sign.—/See Alcohol- ism. Race-Culture.-'S'ee Eugenics. Race-Suicide.—See Abortion; Natal- ity AND Depopulation. Rachianaesthesia. — Spinal anaes- thesia. See Anesthesia and Anesthetics [Regional, Spinal). Radium.—See Eontgen Rays and Rad- ium ; Li pus Vulgaris, etc. RasnriOCine.—A resinoid obtained from the root of cimicifuga racemosa, recommended (in doses of 1 to 6 grains) in rheumatism, neuralgia, lumbago, dysmenorrhoea, etc., as an anti-rheumatic, antispasmodic, and tonic; it can be had in palatinoid form combined with euonymin and quinine sulphate. Rat-bite Fever.—The name proposed by T. J. Border for cases of irregularly periodic fever associated with the bite of a rat. See Border, Quart. Journ. Med., January 1910, and Middleton, Lancet, i. for 1910, p. 1618. Ray TlierapeutiCS.—The treatment of disease by radium emanations (alpha, beta, gamma rays). X-rays, etc. See RoNTGEN Rays AND Radium. Reactivity of Blood.—A term used to express the property possessed by the blood of combining with both alkalies and acids in such a way as not to raise its ionic composition. See Webster, Diagnostic Methods, p. 383, 1909. Receptors.—-See Immunity (Ekrlich's Theory). Recessive.—In Mendelism this term is used to describe the characters that are non- dominant in heredity; those that are latent. See Beredity (Mendel's Law). Rectal Feeding.—The influence of rectal alimentation on metabolism has been carefully investigated by Boyd and Robertson. Absorption of Nitrogen.—Using white of egg, or white of egg and milk, they found that extremely little nitrogen was absorbed from nutrient enemata. The absoi'ption, however, was as good when small quantities of proteid were given as with larger amounts—e.g.:— Obs. VI. N of enema, 4-9 ; N absorbed, 2-22 ; Caloric value, 56. Obs. I.N of enema, 11-43; N absorbed, 1'54; Caloric value, 39. In Observation VI. the absorption of N was better than in any other case, though milk (which is generally regarded as being very poorly assimilated by the bowel from enemata) was used. In all the cases observed by Boyd and Robertson the N-balance was negative. Absorption of Fat.—There is a definite relation between the amount of fat given and the amount absorbed—e g. :— Obs. I. Fat of enema, 103-37 grm.; Fat absorbed, 45-85 grm.; Caloric value, 426. Obs. VI. Fat of enema, 14-35 grm. ; Fat absorbed, 3-47 grm.; Caloric value, 32. The amount absorbed varied from 12 per cent, to 51 per cent, of that given. Fat absorption is an important factor in sparing nitrogen; emulsions of fat are very useful ingredients in enemata, and are much better absorbed than is generally supposed. Absorption of Sugar.—Pure dextrose was used. The amount of sugar lost by bacterial action is small, and the substance is well absorbed—e.g. :— Obs. II. Dextrose in enema, 38 grm. ; Dex trose absorbed, 38 grm.; Caloric value, 155. Obs. V. Dextrose in enema, 88-14 grm.; Dextrose absorbed, 81-1 grm.; Caloric value, 332. The proportion of sugar absorbed varied according to the different capacities in different individuals. Commercial dextrose may cause