243 LEUK^.MIA veniences, dermatitis, palpitation, vomiting, and diarrhoea have been reported. Nature of the Action of X-rays.—Theoretic- ally, the fall in the leucocytes produced by the rays might be due either to lessened production or stimulation of leucolysis. In animals subjected to the action of the rays, Heinecke,^** whose work has been confirmed and is generally ac- cepted, found mai'ked evidence of destruction of the lymphocytes throughout the body—in the splenic pulp, marrow, glands, and follicles of the intestine. The process begins within 3 hours of exposure, and is complete in from 36 to 48 hours. Probably the circulating leucocytes are also destroyed. The red corpuscles, on the contrary, resist the action of the rays. The destruction of the lymphoid tissue is always more marked in the spleen than in the glands or marrow. Young forms of cell—myelocytes and lymphocytes—are most aflfected. Regen- eration is slow after prolonged or repeated exposure (Warthin ^^). The diminution of leucocytes is accompanied by an excessive output of urinary phosphorus and nitrogen. Warthin's final conclusions are, that improve- ment is more marked in cases seen early ; that lymphatic cases require more energetic treat- ment than myelocytic; that the prolonged action of X-rays is due to a leukolytic toxiu formed in the serum ] that X-ray treatment should be combined with arsenic; that no permanent cure has ever been effected. X-ray treatment has also been employed in pseudoleukcemia, with results which are said to be better than in leuka3mia, for about a quarter of the patients remain alive and in good health for three or four years ; in polycythajmia without benefit; and in pernicious anaemia. In the last-named disease the liability to the occurrence of toxaemia, and the frequency with which the kidneys are diseased, contra-indicate this line of treatment. LITERATURE.—The literature is extensive. Many of the references in the text give bibliographies on special subjects. General literature is regularly ab- stracted in Folia hccmatologica, which is an invaluable source of reference in all blood diseases. 1. Berl. klin. WochenscL, p. 35, 1905. 2. Ibid., 24th June 1907. 3. Amer. Journ. Med. Sci., Sept. 1903. 4. Internat. •Clinics, ser. 13, vol. iii., 1903. 5. Olas. Med. Journ., 1907. 6. Zeitsch. f. klin. Med., Ixv. pp. 87, 411, 1902. 7. Johns Hopkins Hasp. Bull., March 1907. 8. Lancet, 20th July 1903. 9. Ibid., 19th Aug. 1905. 10. Glas. Med. Jo um.^ Sept. 1905. 11. Ccnirdlh. f. ifinev. Med.^ p. 836, 1898. 12. Amer. Journ. Med. Sci., Sept. 1907. 13. Bdin. Med. Journ., Sept. 1908. 14. Liverpool Med. Journ., Jan. 1907. 15. Trans. Path. Soc, London, Ix., 1904. 16. Qtmrterly Journ. Med., Oct. 1907. 17. Univ. Penn. Med. Bull., 1906. 18. Miinch. med. WochenscL, No. 48, 1903. 19. The Physician and Surgeon, Jan., Feb., March, 1907 (full references to X-rays). Leukolysis or Leucolysis.—De- struction and dissolution of leucocytes in the blood, resulting in reduction in the number of white cells {leucope7iia or leukopenia). Leukopenia or Leucopenia.— Diminution in the number of leucocytes in blood. See LeukoLYSIS. LevuiOSUria.—Arare condition in which levulose is found in the urine, levulose (CjHi.jO^) being specially the sugar of fruits and honey ; it may occur either as a pure levulosuria or in association with glycosuria (an association which is common in diabetes) ; it may be detected by Seliwanoff's Test. Lieben'S Test.—A test for acetone in the urine, consisting in the addition to a few c.c. of urine of a few drops of concentrated potas- sium hydrate and a few drops of a solution of iodine in iodide of potassium; then, on warming, yellow crystals of iodoform will separate, recognisable by their odour and by their microscopical characters (hexagonal shape). See Webster, Diagnostic Methods, p. 306, 1909. Lig'ht-touch Palpation.—Amethod by which the outlines of underlying organs, such as the heart, liver, and spleen, and even of affected parts of the lungs, can be deter- mined by lightly feeling the skin with the tip of the finger ; it is probably a skin reflex ; a slight degree of rigidity of the muscles over- lying the organs, or inflammatory changes may also give diagnostic information. See F. M. Pottenger, Trans. Amer. Climat. Assoc., XXV. p. 82, 1909 ; South. Med. Journ., iii. p. 149, 1910; and A. Wolff-Eisner, Deutsche med. Wochnschr., xxxvi. p. 755, 1910. Lin Aulag'ne.—A proprietary prepara- tion of Parisian oi'igin, constituting a linseed- meal poultice ; it consists of linseed meal (ren- dered antiseptic by boric acid), finely powdered over several layers of gauze, which are com- pressed, sewn together, and made up in rolls ; a piece of the shape and size can be cut out, dipped in boiling water, and applied to the skin. See Report in Lancet (ii. for 1910, p. 1143). Lin in.—Part of the nuclear matter ; more particularly the achromatic network in which the chromatin (the part which can be stained) lies. Lipochromes.—'S'ee Lipoids. Lipoidaemia.—The presence of lipoids in the blood. Lipoids.—Intracellular fatty compounds which are believed to be of great importance not only in cellular metabolism but also in connection with immunity. Overton, who introduced the term, defined them as bodies which dissolved narcotics; but Bang has re-