282 PANCEEAS, DISEASES OF THE dry, Schmidt-Stokes milk tubes, labelled A and B, and provided with a 10 c.c. mark, are taken, and into the lower bulb of each is introduced an accurately weighed quantity (about half a gram) of the finely powdered ffeces. that have been dried to a constant weight in a water-bath. The residue on the watch-glass used for weigh- ing, and on the sides of the short-necked funnel with which the powder is introduced into the tube, is washed down with a fine jet from a wash-bottle, which for the A-tube contains hydrochloric acid (1 :3), and for the B-tube plain water. The sides of the tube are also washed until the whole of the sample is col- lected in the lower bulb and the 10 c.c. mark is reached. The A-tube is then heated in Ijoiling water for twenty minutes, occasionally rotating it so as to well mix the contents. After cooling, both of the tubes are filled to the 50 c.c. mark with ether, securely corked, and inverted forty times, taking care that the whole of the solid material runs through at each turn. Each tube is then rotated between the hands, and allowed to stand for half an hour or more, in order that the solid residue may be collected into the lower bulb. Considerable care is necessary in carrying out this part of the process in some instances, or a perfectly clear supei'uatant layer of ether, free from solid particles, is not secured. With a pipette, exactly 20 c.c. of the clear ethereal extract are drawn oil' from each tube and delivei'cd into two COo flasks of known weight, the amount of ether left in the tubes being noted. The ether in the flasks is then evaporated, the residue dried on the water-bath, and the flasks again weighed. From the amount of extract yielded by 20 c.c. of ether, and the quantity of ether left in the tubes, the total amount yielded by the weight of dried faeces used may be calculated, and from this the percentage in the stool determined. The result from the A-tube gives the total fat in the fasces, including the neutral fats, free fatty acids, and combined fatty acids, or soaps, since the latter will have been decomposed by being boiled with the hydrochloric acid and thus rendered soluble ; that from the B-tube represents the neutral fats and fatty acids only, as the soaps will I'emain undissolved by the ether : the difference between the two will therefore give the proportion of saponified fat present. Other substances in the faices soluble in ether, such as cholesterin, lecithin, cholic acid, and pigments, are included in the esti- mates, but as the quantity is small it does not appreciably affect the results. For convenience of reference we shall speak of the yield from the A-tube as ' total fat,' that from the B-tube as 'neutral fat,' and the flifference between the two as ' fatty acid.'" When the functions of the pancreas are seri- ously interfered with, the amount of " total fat" in the stools is usually excessive. There is also 10 27 a disturbance of the normal ratio between " neutral fat" and " fatty acids," the former, instead of the latter, being in excess. Eobson and Cammidge give the following average figures :— Total Neutral Fatty Fats. Fats. Normal, per cent. . .21 11 Malignant disea.se, per cent. 77 50 Chronic pancreatitis, per cent 50 32 18 In some cases of undoubted pancreatic disease there is no excess of fat in the stools. This may be due to (1) the food containing an unusually small proportion of fat; (2) the fat in the food Ijeing of a readily digestible kind— e.g. milk; (3) the action of the fat-splitting ferment in the stomach. An excess of fat may sometimes be detected microscopically, but this method of examination is far inferior as a diagnostic aid to chemical analysis. In estimating the significance of steatorrhtea, the following facts should be taken into con- sideration :—(1) An excess of fat in the stools maj^ be due to ingestion of food containing abnormal quantities of fat. (2) It may also be due to disease of the intestine, etc., interfering with the absorption of fat—e.g. tuberculosis. (3) Even if jaundice be present, an excess of neutral fat over fatty acids points to some interference with the fat-splitting action of the pancreas. (4) Disappearance of the steatorrhoja on the administration of a preparation of pancreas confirms the diagnosis of pancreatic mischief. Other signs of pancreatic disease afforded by the examination of the stools are—(1) The presence of large numbers of undigested muscle fibres (see Digestion, p. 119, examina- tion of the gastric functions, Schmidt's diet). (2) The application of the test for stercobilin may differentiate between jaundice due to cancer of the head of the pancreas and jaundice due to chronic pancreatitis or gall-stones. In the former stercobilin is absent, or present only in faint traces ; in the latter, though less than normal, it is distinctly present. The test for stercobilin advised by Cammidge is the following :—" The solid residue from the B-tube \_supra\ can be used. . . . For this purpose it is filtered off, extracted with acid alcohol, the extract neutralised with ammonia, and mixed with an equal quantity of 10 per cent, zinc acetate in alcohol. The precipitate that forms is removed by filtration, and the clear filtrate examined with a lens, against a Ijlack background, for the green fluorescence that indicates the presence of stercobilin. The intensity of the colour varies with the amount of pigment, so that by always using approxi- mately the same proportion of faeces and of the reagents any marked variation from the normal can be detected."