5 ABDOMINAL SECTION its exact position is found in the tumour, which can be felt, or in the anatomical situation of the fundus of the gall-bladder; and Treves and Hutchinson {op. cU., i. p. 149) recommend the making of two small transverse cuts at the upper and lower end of the incision (the upper one passing inwards and the lower one out- wards) so as to make the incision sigmoid in shape. For gastrostomy an incision running obliquely downwards and outwards and ending just within the left linea semilunaris is advised ; it is parallel to and about 1 inch distant from the margin of the left costal cartilages; its centre will correspond to a point a little less than an inch below the margin of the liver (left lobe), and it should not be much more than 2 inches in length. The incision for the radical cure of inguinal hernia is made parallel to and above Poupart's ligament on the affected side, the aponeurosis of the external oblique is ex- posed and incised (usually from one inguinal ring to the other), and the superficial epigastric artery and vein secured (with catch forceps); the holding apart of the edges of the incision and some dissection will reveal the cord and the sac of the hernia. In exceptional cases the abdomen is opened by two incisions, a median vertical one and one over the affected organ. Thus in cases of disease of the gall-bladder Kelly has advised the opening the abdomen in the middle line, the introduction of the left hand and its passage upwards to the neighbourhood of the gall- bladder, and the making of an incision over that organ by the knife held in the right hand and with the left acting as a guide and protec- tion. This is a method of procedure which may be employed in other instances and which ought perhaps to be more often used. The Exploration of the Abdominal Cavity.—The next step in most celiotomies is to pass the hand (gloved or ungloved, according to the surgeon's practice) into the peritoneal cavity and explore it. However accurate may be the opinion formed by the operator before opening the abdomen, it is capable of revision when a hand is actually inside, and it may perhaps be said with confidence that surprises are the rule rather than the exception. Thus such an examination with the intra-abdominal hand may reveal cancer of the liver as well as of the stomach, stone in the gall-bladder accom- panying intestinal disease, a pedunculated fibroid of the uterus where solid tumour of the ovary had been expected, the presence of both ovaries (with dermoid cysts in them) packed one on the top of the other in the pouch of Douglas, the absence of the other kidney in cases of renal displacement and mal- formation, pyosalpinx when inflamed appendix had been diagnosed, etc. Another matter which such a manual exploration will disclose is the presence or absence of adhesions between the affected organ and its neighbouring struc- tures. If these be recent they will usually also be easy of separation {e.g. in localised peritonitis of short duration): the simple pass- age of the hand between the adherent parts may be sufficient, or they may be sponged apart by means of a sterile swal) or sponge ; of course if one is working deep down in the pelvis it will be wise to put the patient in the Trendelen- burg posture and guide one's manipulations by sight, the edges of the wound being held apart by the retractors. Any hsemorrhage will usually be checked by the continuous pressure of a swab, but a surface which persistently bleeds may require to be sewn over or sewn in ("sequestrated"). Chronic adhesions which are commonly fibrous and not spidery in their nature require greater care and may need other methods of separation, especially when they exist between the affected organ and the bowel. Sometimes they may be safely separated with the fingers or cut through with scissors, but care has to be taken that one does not injure the peritoneal or even the muscular coat of the intestine in so doing. If they are to any degree vascular they will need to be ligatured, and this is specially necessary in connection with omental adhesions—then the adhesion may be in one mass if small, or in sections if large, or, better still, the individual vessels may be secured. It is not bad practice to leave even considerable portions of adhesions attached to the bowel— indeed it may be much safer than prolonged attempts at separation. In a few instances an inflamed ovary may be so embedded amongst pelvic adhesions as to be altogether incapable of separation, unless the operator is prepared to deal with a large rent in the rectum. Where the adhesion is firm and affects the intestinal coils, binding them to the tumour, it will be wise always to approach it through the tumour, getting under the peritoneum. Then in the case of a parovarian cyst it will be advisable to tap the cyst first and then with the hand inside the collapsed cyst to strip off the capsule of that tumour, leaving the peritoneal investment at the point of adhesion untouched (enucleating the growth in fact by the subperitoneal route). The same plan may have to be adopted with adherent fibroid tumours of the uterus. The ligature material will be strong catgut or fine silk. Special Technique.—The next step in the celiotomy will depend upon the morbid state for which the operation has been undertaken, and the organ affected. It may turn out that nothing more than exploration is possible (as in some cases of advanced malignant disease), or it may end, and end happily, in simple removal of the fluid contents of the peritoneal sac (as in tuberculosis of the peritoneum); then the closing of the abdominal wound follows almost immedi- ately upon its opening. In other cases more