PREGNANCY, PHYSIOLOGY OF 302 come to us from Professoi- Paul Bar of Paris. Bar's work (Ler^ns de pathologie ohsU'tricale (Paris), 1907) contains between 900 and 1000 pages of clinical observations and experimental reseaches, and, although there is much in it relating to eclampsia and the morbid changes found in that disease, there is also a great mass of materials for the formation of more correct views regarding the physiology of pregnancy than those at present existing. The author has endeavoured to determine the modifications in the nutrition of a healthy mother produced by a normal pi'egnancy, employing for that purpose the stiuly of the urine. With regard, in the first place, to the existence of a polyuria of pregnancy, a matter about which there had been doubt, Bar came to the conclusion that it was not a constant phenomenon at the close of gestation, but that it was observed in some primiparas, and that it was common in multi- paras ; from experimental work upon dogs he discovered that the excretion of water by the kidneys was more abundant during joreg- nancy than when the animal was not pregnant; and he was therefore of opinion that pregnancy by itself was a cause of polyuria. The deimity of the iirine was diminished towards the close of pregnancy; the solid extractive matters of the urine were also less in quantity, and Bar ascribed this reduction largely to the fact that the foetus subtracted from the mother certain materials for its upbuilding. The question of the nitrogenous interchanges between mother and foetus was a difficult and complicated one. From observations made upon four pregnant women fed upon a mixed ■diet, the elements of which were known and in fixed amount, it was found that thcie was a tendency to a reduction of the residual faecal nitrogen ; in a word, there was more complete utilisation of nitrogenous materials in the alimentary tract. These results were confirmed by experiments upon dogs, and this experimental work showed further that the increased utili- sation of the nitrogenous material was not regular and steady but occurred in phases. With regard to the urinary nitrogen, and especially to the urea, it was found from experiment that, in pregnant dogs, submitted to a constant dietary, there was diminished excretion of urea in the second half of gestation, and that the decrease was in proportion to the development of the foetus; it was the same in the human subject, and the differences in the results obtained by authors were often to be explained by variations in the amount of food taken. With regard next to the equilibrium of the nitrogenous exchanges during pregnancy. Bar found that the healthy pregnant woman, under a rational regimen, retained some nitrogen and that she retained more than if she were not pregnant (the other conditions of health, diet, etc., being the same); further, the nitrogenous material that she retained was often greater than was required for the needs of the foetus. The mechanism of this disturbance of the equilibrium of the nitrogen exchange could not be precisely stated ; it might be due to a degree of renal impermeability which prevented the excretion of nitrogen, or it might be due to the fixation of nitrogen in the form of albumen. If the latter explanation were the correct one then there would be a real increase in the nitrogen capital (so to say) of the mother in pregnancy. This peculiarity of the chemical interchanges taking place in gestation led Bar to consider whether pregnancy constituted for the mother a period of loss or of gain. From his own observations, and from those of Hagemann and others, he drew the conclusions that pregnancy did not constitute a period of sacrifice for the mother ; that when she was healthy, she found in her diet the necessary elements for the development of the foetus ; that when the diet was sufficiently plentiful the healthy mother pregnant of one or more healthy foetuses retained more albumen than the foetus or foetuses required, and of this excess she kept a part for herself; and that therefore the healthy mother carrying one or more healthy foetuses profited from the period of gestation. To this associated condition of the mother and foetus, in which the latter does not live in a parasitic fashion at the expense of the former, Bar gave the name of " harmonious homogeneous sym- biosis" {symbiose harmonique homogene). The term symbiosis was not used in its strict bio- logical sense, which is, that association which gives life to two individuals incapable of living by themselves in the conditions in which they are found, for, of course, the mother could live without the foetus ; but Bar had been unable to find a better name. It was a harmonious symbiosis, thus differing from such an in- harmonious association as parasitism, in which one of the individuals is a source of injury to the other. Further, it was homogeneous, for the association was that of two individuals of the same and not of different natures. This is a very important deduction for Bar to have made, and is contrary to the idea which is widely held, that fa>tal life is a parasitic or semi-parasitic state of existence. Apparently it is a unique sort of association. Gestation in the mammalia, says Professor Bar, is perhaps the only, certainly it is the best, example of homogeneous harmonious symbiosis between two beings ; the foetus lives upon the mother but also gives to her the power of giving him life without suffering damage herself, indeed she sometimes gains by it. But these deep-seated modifications of nutrition, developing so quickly, maintain the nitrogenous equilibrium or cause a gain to the mother only if the latter be