INTESTINES, SURGERY OF THE 212 sutures are then buried below a second row, which are Lembert ones, and may be either ordinary interrupted Lemberts or a continuous one. If this plan be followed exact approxima- tion of the intestinal ends is difficult, and to make it easier preliminary guide sutures may be inserted at intervals immediately after the first suture has been introduced at the mesen- teric margin. The final step here also will be the suturing of the mesentery. Another method of end-to-end anastomosis is by means of the Murphy button (or some similar device). The bowel is clamped and emptied of its contents in the way already described ; the mesenteric vessels of the aff"ected part are tied, but no presection sutures are passed ; then the bowel is resected along with a wedge-shaped portion of the mesentery. Then round each of the two ends of the divided bowel a purse-string silk suture is passed in order to pucker in their edges. The suture is introducecl on the aspect of the bowel farthest away from the mesentery, passes through all the layers of the intestinal wall, and goes right round till it comes out again at the antimesenteric surface near to its point of entrance. The female part of the Murphy button is then grasped by a pair of forceps and inserted into the distal end of the bowel; it is fixed in position by drawing the purse-string suture tight around it, and tying it firmly. The same thing is done with the male part of the button and the proximal end of the intestine. Then the two halves of the Murphy button (with the two ends of bowel attached to them) are held by the operator whilst his assistant removes the forceps by which they have been introduced; the male half is then pushed slowly into the female till they come closely together, bringing the two ends of bowel also into complete apposition. The final step is the fixation by a continuous Lembert suture passing round the bowel (bury- ing the button), and by the suturing of the divided edges of the mesentery. The mode of action of the Murphy button is to cause necrosis of the portion of intestinal wall caught within its bite ; this sets loose the button which is discharged ultimately per anum. Of course, if the pressure-necrosis be a little too much leakage from the bowel may take place, and danger at once arise. Lateral {side-to-side) anastomosis differs in some particulars from the end-to-end method, but resembles it in being carried out either by sutures alone or by suturing reinforced by the use of the Murphy button or other mechanical contrivance. In cases of enterectomy it takes longer to do the anastomosis by the lateral than by the end-to-end method, for there are three separate acts of suturing : the two ends of the divided intestine have to be closed, and next these two blind sacs have to be laid, side by side, openings made in them, and then united by sutures. But the time required is not three times as much, for the closing of the two ends is rapidly done, and the plan has the advan- tage of giving a wound which will be entirely surrounded by peritoneum, thus avoiding the dangerous mesenteric border area. The side- to-side plan is specially useful where the anas- tomosis has to be established between the small intestine and the large, or between two pieces of bowel which diff'er much in calibre. As in the end-to-end method Halsted's mattress sutures may be used. The early steps of the operation (clamping, emptying the bowel, ligation of mesenteric vessels, and resection) are the same, save that the clamps are put on farther away from the excision lines to give room for invagination of the ends. The invagination is done by means of forceps, and the openings are closed with a single row of Halsted sutures; the mesentery belonging to the invaginated part is turned in with it. Then the two blind ends are placed side by side, their free (or antimesenteric) surfaces being in contact, and fixed together by a row of Halsted sutures which are row-tied; a second row is now introduced (nearer to the operator), but not yet tied; next an opening is made in each bowel between the two rows of sutures, bringing the lumen of the one into communication with that of the other; and finally, the second row of sutures is drawn taut and tied, and the edges of the mesentery united by a continuous suture. Of course, if it is not intended to resect the affected portion of intestine, then the closing of the two ends will not be needed, and the two parts of bowel to be united by anastomosis will simply be brought into lateral contact, and a communication established as above. Lateral anastomosis may also be done by the aid of the Murphy button (an oblong one); the com- munication is closed over the button with Lembert sutures as usual. In some cases an end-to-side anastomosis may with advantage be performed; then the Halsted suture or the round button is used ; it is specially in cases of enteric exclusion (exclusion of a portion of the bowel " from the fa?.cal circuit") that this mixed method of anastomosis is likely to prove of value. There are two varieties of exclusion : in one (unilateral or partial as it is called) the intestine is simply divided (not resected), the proximal part of the distal end is closed, and the distal end of the proximal part is implanted by end-to-side anastomosis (sutures or Murphy button) upon the intestine, below the point of tumour or disease ; in the other (complete or bilateral) both ends of the excluded portion of bowel are closed, and the normal bowel on both sides made continuous by end-to-end anastomosis. In the former plan there may be some regurgitation of fteces into the excluded segment, but they are expelled again by peri-