HEART, DISEASES OF 179 is carried on under the new conditions, and how the heart responds to treatment. 5. Irregularity due to Depression of the Contractility of the Ventricle (Mackenzie), Pulsus alternans (Hering).—The four forms of arrhythmia ah'eady described depend on abnormalities in the stimuli which lead to contraction, but are not necessarily associated with any failure of contractility. In the long run, however, heart failure means inability of the heart to maintain its power of contraction, iind failui'e of contractility alone may cause irregularity. Normally, after each contraction of the muscle fibres they are so exhausted that a brief period of repose is needed to restore their function ; if the renewed stimulus occurs too soon the ensuing contraction is short and feeble. Depression of conti'actility is shown by pain (angina) and by pulsus alternans— large beats followed by small ones. The explanation of this phenomenon is that after the large beat the period of rest is insufficient to rest the muscle, and the next beat is feeble ; owing to the shoit duration of the feeble beat the subsequent period of rest is longer, and so on. The rhythm of the beats in pure pulsus alternans is quite regular : on the other hand, when, as is often the case, it is combined with extra-systoles, it becomes extremely irregular. Pulsus bigeminus (an extra-systole interpolated after each beat) is distinguished from pulsus alternans by the fact that the beats occur in couples, not in regular rhythmical succession. Clinical Diagnosis. — It must not be supposed that for the clinical diagnosis of the various forms of cardiac arrhythmia graphic methods are essential. On the contrary, as Hering points out, the modern classification has a great advantage over the older one in point of simplicity. Only five possibilities require to be considered, and some of these can at once be eliminated. Even when combina- tion of different forms of irregularity occur, difficulty is not likely to arise, for in most cases the combination proves to be an associa- tion of extra-systoles with one of the other four varieties. Certain combinations do not occur, e.g. continued irregularity with delayed s 0- a -A / Fig. 10.—A long pause after tbe extra-systole r'. The auricular stimulus a' provokes no ventricular coutractiou (Mackeuzie). conduction or pulsus alternans, and delayed conduction with pulsus alternans. Extra-Systoles, the most common form of irregularity, are characterised (in many cases) by the subjective sensation of thumping in the prsecordial region, and by the sharp drum-like tone of the sound they produce. When in an otherwise regular pulse a premature beat suddenly occurs, it is an extra-systole. An intermission is most likely to be an extra- systole, and, if accompanied by a " bump" in the prsecordial region, is certainly one. It is distinguished from a missed beat from failure of the ventricles to contract by auscultation ; in the extra-systole the characteristic sharp sound is usually audible, but in a true missed beat no sound is produced. This difficulty in differential diagnosis is most likely to occur in cases of bigeminal pulse, when the question may arise, whether or not every third beat is being missed from failure of the ventricle to contract. In true bigeminal pulse, due to extra-systole, every second beat is accompanied by a sharp first sound. Respiratory (Sinus) Irregularity is easily recognised by the fact tnat only the time intervals, not the force of the beats, vary. The arrhythmia depends on the respiratory movements, and ceases when the patient stops breathing. When the l:)reathing is irregular (as in meningitis) it is less easy to make out the association between the pulse and the respiration. The chief practical point is to decide whether or not respiratory arrhythmia is caused by a cerebral lesion. Contimious Irregularity {Nodal Rhythm) is characterised by its persistence, and by the great variations in the force and time of the pulse beats. The venous pulsations in the neck synchronise with the apex beat. Irregu- larity of this type diminishes, but does not disappear, under the influence of digitalis. Bradycardia due to lowered conductivity is easily recognised. When the pulse is about 30, there is probably complete dissociation between auricular and ventricular action. More than this cannot be said without the aid afforded by tracings. The differences between an occasional missed beat and the intermissions of extra-systole have been referred to.