258 MENSTRUATION external discharge of blood was not necessarily indicative of the lack of intia-uterine hsemor- T'hage, for in certain cases blood was undoubtedly extravasated into the uterine cavity, to be re-absorbed or expelled as a clot. Heape, therefore, not only showed the analogies between the sexual season in mammals and the reproductive processes in the human female, but also brought menstruation, as it occurs in the primates, into line with analogous phenomena in other mammals, identifying it with the pro-cestrum or period of " coming in season," or "in heat." It was not long before other observers followed the path of investigation and research which Heape had entered upon; and Francis Marshall {Froc. Roy. Soc. Lo7id., Ixxi. p. 354, 1903; Phil. Tr. (Lond.), cxcvi. p. 47, 1904; Quart. Journ. Microsc. Sc. (Lond.), xlviii. p. 323, 1904-5 ; Internat. Clin. (Phila.), 17 s., ii. p, 190, 1907), Marshall and Jolly (Proc. Roi/. Soc. Lond., s. B., Ixxvi. p. 395, 1905 ; Proc. Physiol. Soc. Lond., p. xxvi., 1906), and Emrys-Roberts {Proc. Roy. Soc. Lond., s. B., Ixxvi. p. 164, 1905) all made important contributions to our knowledge of the comparative physiology of the sexual season by their inquiries into the oestrous cycle in the sheep, the ferret, the bitch, and other mammals. The oestrous cycle of the lower mammals was to be regarded as homolo- gous with the menstrual cycle of monkeys and the human female, for similar histological changes occurred in the uterus and external genital organs during these cycles. While, however, the changes were essentially similar, there were differences in detail: thus the destruction of uterine tissue was greater in menstruation than in the pro-oestrum, and the monthly phenomena in the human female showed, at first sight, little resemblance to the sexual season of the sheep or bitch. The identification of menstruation with a part and not with the whole of the oestrous cycle helped to bring out the homology of the two processes, and the following schematic representation may be usefully kept in mind :— Histological Changes. Periods of the OEstrous Cycle. Period of growth . | Pro-oestrum > Period of destruc-■ [Period of tion . (Menstruation) I "Heat" Period of recupera-j CEstrus ) tion . . .1 Metoestrum j Not in Period of rest . Anoestrum ("Heat" Menstruation corresponded simply with the period of pro-oestrum in the lower mammals; it differed from it, in detail, by reason of the greater destruction of uterine tissue which took place in it, but the difference was insufficient to obscure the homology. Menstruation, therefore, did not correspond with the period of "heat" in the lower mammals, but only with the early part of that period, known as " coming into heat" or " season." If there was a definite period of desire in the human female, it would be the time immediately following menstrua- tion, the period of " oestrus" (commencing recuperation of tissue) in the lower mammals. Questions next arose as to the light these discoveries and identifications might throw upon the vexed question of the relation of ovulation to menstruation. There was evidence that in the rabbit, the ferret, and sometimes in the sheep, ovulation did not take place without the stimulus of coitus, and not, therefore, till the period of oestrus ; in the bitch, also, ovulation occurred either during oestrus or in the later stage of the pro-oestrum. It was evident, therefore, that in these mammals the destruction-period of the pro-oestrum could not be regarded as the undoing of a preparation for a fertilised ovum (the preceding growth-stage), for the pro-oestrum was over or nearly over before ovulation (and fertilisation) occurred. Neither could menstruation, the homologue of the pro-oestrum, be so regarded, and therefore Sigismund's view (which looked upon the period of growth as a preparation for a fertilised ovum, and the period of destruction as the undoing thereof) could no longer be maintained. Further, the destruction-period of the pro- oestrum (and therefore also of menstruation) could not be regarded as of the nature of an abortion (as Beard had suggested in 1897), for ill the case of the bitch, at any rate, it occurred before ovulation, and it could hardly be associated with the ovulation which had taken place at the preceding period of "heat" or oestrus six months before. Recent researches in the comparative physiology of the sexual season went to support the theory that men- struation in the human female and the periods of pro-oestrum and oestrus in other mammals were of the nature of preparation for an embryo—a sort of " surgical freshening " of the uterine mucosa for the reception and attachment of an impregnated ovum ; there was also some evidence that the ovum was that discharged at the ovulation period immediately following the pro-cestrum (menstruation). It was prob- able that in the human subject the whole sexual season had lost its original characters, and had been changed, by evolution, into what it now was ; there had, no doubt, once been a chronological arrangement of events similar to that now obtaining in the lower mammals ; in other words, the usual period for ovulation in women had occurred after pro-oestrum (menstruation) during a period of oestrus. Even now there was some evidence to show that the most likely time for fertilisation to take place was during the week following menstruation. We must turn next to the light which recent researches have thrown upon the influence of the ovaries upon menstruation. On the whole, these investigations went to support the view