ECLAMPSIA 127 Weber,however(4rcA./ Gynaek., Ixxxii. p. 717, 1907), and Keyserlingk (Zmtrtdb. f. Gi/ucik., xxxi. p. 711, 1907) still prefer Bossi's method to Diihrsseri's incisions and vaginal Cesarean section. It must be admitted that in cases in which the cervix is not taken up its use is attended by grave danger of serious cervical lacerations ; it finds, therefore, its most distinct indication in the cases in which the cervix is undilated, but in the shape of a ring. During the past few years a good deal has been wi'itten in favour of vaginal section (the so- called vaginal Csesarean section) as a means of rapidly emptying the uterus in serious cases of eclampsia. With the patient in the litho- tomy position, the operator exposes the cervix (with a speculum) and draws it down to the vulva (with volsellse). If (as is often the case) the patient be a primipara, with a narrow vulva and vagina, it may be well to do an episiotomy at once, in order to give room. An incision is then made through the mucous membrance of the anterior lip of the cervix and the anterior vaginal wall of an inverted T (x) shape. The bladder is now separated from the cervix by the fingers or by the handle of the knife until the peritoneum of the utero-vesical pouch comes into the view ; the latter is not incised. The cervix is next split in the middle line with scissors, pulled further down with the volsellas, and the incision (four inches long) is carried further up into the lower uterine segment If the operation be performed near the full term it will be well to incise the posterior as well as the anterior lip of the cervix. Bleeding is controlled during the making of the incisions by down- ward traction upon the cervix. The delivery of the infant is now rapidly accomplished, the placenta removed, and the uterus massaged and sometimes packed with gauze. The incisions in the cervix are closed with sutures (continuous or interrupted catgut) placed near together ; the posterior incision (when present) is closed hi-st Care must be taken that the sutures do not catch in the gauze packing. The vaginal incision is closed by a continuous catgut suture, and the perineum is repaired if a preliminary episiotomy has been performed. Carstens, in 1904 {A'tuer. Journ. Ob.'<tet., 1. p. 633, 1904), spoke very favourably of this operation, and affirmed that it could be performed by any general practitioner ; but Zinke [ibid.) doubted this, and, as a matter of fact, vaginal section is more difficult of performance than a reading of the descriptions given in text-books would lead us to expect, for it must not be forgotten that the anatomical relations of parts are con- siderably altered in late pregnancy. Fry (Surg. Gynec. and Obstet., i. p. 58, 1905) emphasised the short time (10 minutes) required to remove the child by the vaginal section, and reported a case of eclampsia at the sixth month success- fully treated by this means. Hammerschlag (ZeitscLf. GehiorUh. u. Gyndlc, Ivi. p 351, 1905) regarded it as an excellent operation, involving only slight injury and danger, and Keyserlingk {Zentralb.f. Gi/ndk., xxxi. p. 711, 1907), Biittner (Beitr. z. Gfiburtsh. u. Gynaek., xi. p. 401, 1907) and Weisswange {Zeidralb. f. Gyndk., xxxii. p. 337, 1908) have all written favourably of it, and described cases in which it was used. Bumm's recent statistics give forty consecutive cases of eclampsia thus treated with one death, whilst Veit has had thirty-three cases with one death. If it be admitted that rapid delivery is the treatment in serious eclampsia, then vaginal Ceesarean section will be the operation of choice in the very instances in which Bossi's dilator is contra-indicated, viz. those occurnng early in pregnancy, with an undilated cervix, not yet taken up. A recent paper on the subject is that by Humpstone {Amer. Journ. Obdet., lix. p 92, 1909), who reports five cases (none of them in labour) thus treated, with one maternal death. A somewhat extraordinary case was reported by Boldt in 1905 {Post-Graduate, xx. p. 1251, L905), in which ordinary Csesarean section was performed upon a girl, twelve years and eight months old, who had a small pelvis and severe eclampsia ; but. as a general rule, the ordinary operation has been very seldom employed in cases of convulsions, and where it has been done the mortality was high. Digital dilatation and dilatation by means of the Champetier de Ribes's bag are still occasionally used in eclampsia for rapid evacuation of the uterus, but Bossi's dilator and the vaginal Csesarean section are more in evidence. Quite apait fi'om operative dilatation of the cervix two other surgical pi-ocedures have found advocates within the past few years, viz. lumbar jmncture and renal decapsulation The former, perhaps, can hardly be called surgical, for it is an extremely simple operation. Helme of Manchester used this method in December 1903 {Brit. Med. Journ , i. for 1904, p. 1131) in a typically severe case of eclampsia in which saline injections, thyroid extract, and chloral had previously been given ; he noted that the cerebro-spinal fluid escaped as if under consider- able pressure; the patient recovered. The theory which was advanced to explain the mode of action of lumbar puncture was very siinple. It was taken for granted that the convulsions were due to increased cerebro-spinal tension ; therefore, if some of the fluid was removed by puncture of the arachnoid space, it was con- cluded that the tension would be reduced and the fits would for the time cease; the interval of freedom from fits could be utilised for the application of other forms of treatment, which would effectually and permanently remove the cause of the high tension. Three cases treated by lumbar puncture by Kronig also recovered (Zentralb. f. Gyndk., xxviii. p. 1153, 1904), but out of sixteen cases dealt with by Max Henkel