133 ECTOPIC PREGNANCY a cause, or, at any rate, as a common cause of rupture. The great advance that has been made in our knowledge of the whole subject is the proof that has been obtained that tubal abortion is nothing else than a form of rupture, albeit internal rupture of the gestation sac. For this cause tubal rupture is now considered more in detail. Among the various results which may follow the implantation of the impregnated ovum in the Fallopian tube is the process known as tubal abortion ; as a matter of fact, it is now known that external rupture of the gravid tube is less frequent than was formerly thought, whilst the shedding of the gestation sac, in whole or in part, from the tube into the peritoneal cavity is much commoner than was supposed. Munro Kerr {Operative Midwifery, p. 538, 1908), indeed, regards tubal abortion as a more common occurrence than tubal rupture in cases of ampullar ectopic pregnancy ; it is certainly much more often reported than it was at the time when the article on Ectopic Gestation was written for the Encydopmdia Medica (Vol. III. pp. 183, 184, 1900)'. Tubal aboi'tion may be complete, the whole ovum passing from the tube ; haemorrhage into the peritoneum is then inconsiderable, and probably ceases at once: this is comparable to the complete variety of ordinary abortion. There may, however, be an imperfect expulsion of the ovum from the tube, when what has been called the " ostial trickle " or drip-drop of blood from the infundibulum will continue and cause the formation of a hfeniatocele. Complete tubal abortion may yield the explanation of some anomalous cases of the abdominal variety of ectopic pregnancy. In the case reported by Seeligmann {Deutsche med. Wocheyisch., xxxii. p. 879, 1906), for instance, gestation went to the full term, and the placenta was situated on the undersurface of the liver and gall-bladder, while a macerated foetus, weighing 10 lbs., was found lying in a sac in the abdominal cavity; and the author believed that the ovum at the end of the third month had escaped, with very little bleeding, through the open end of the tube, had not lost its vitality, and had been carried by the peristaltic movements of the bowels to the undersurface of the liver, where it had become attached, and had secured a vascular supply sufficient to enable the foetus to attain the weight of 10 lbs. If this be so, tubal abortion is not an unimportant occurrence. It is possible that Felix Meyer's case of pri- mary (^) abdominal pregnancy {Intercolon. Med. Journ. Australas., x. p. 145, 1905) may be explained in the same way as Seeligmann's. At any rate, there can be no doubt about the reality of tubal abortion, for the gravid tube has been, so to say, caught in the act by several operators. Alban Doran, for instance, operated upon a patient regarded as suffering probably fi'om right-sided tubal pregnancy; he found the right tube greatly distended, there was a mass of clot projecting from the ostium, and the peritoneal cavity contained not a drop of blood. The tube contained clot, and in the clot was an amniotic sac without an embryo ; under the microscope numerous chorionic villi were found in the coagulum surrounding the sac {Journ. Obstet. and Gyvxec. Brit. Emp., x. p. 621, 1906). But a still more clearly demonstrated case was that reported by M. v. Strauch of Moscow {Zentralb. f. Gytiak., xxiii. p. 1294, 1899), and Phillips {Journ. Obstet. and Gyniv.c. Brit. Emp., ix. p. 443, 1906) found a tubal mole in process of abortion during the operation of hystero- salpingotomy for ectopic pregnancy and periton- itis. In a patient whom Galabin (TVn/w. Obstet. Soc. Loud., xlvii. p. 332, 1906) was examining bimanually under anesthesia, a mass on the right side suddenly diminished in size, and on abdominal section some days later a fleshy mole was found in the pouch of Douglas ; Galabin was of opinion that tubal abortion had occurred in consequence of the bimanual examination. In Karpow's patient {Monatssch. f. Geburtsh. u. Gyiidk., xviii. p. 778, 1903) the passage of the gestation sac from the tube into the abdomen seems to have been caused by a fall ; at the time of operation a five months' fo3tus was found in the epigastric region, and the placenta was in process of extrusion from the ostium tubee. But there is not, as a rule, any history of traumatism to account for the occurrence of tubal abortion, and the question of its patho- genesis must then find another explanation. y^&xt\{Zentralh.f. Gyndk.^n^Vxx. p. 851, 1903) has made the whole matter more easy of com- prehension by calling tubal abortion " rupture of the internal capsule" in contrast with rupture of the tube into the peritoneum or broad ligament ("rupture of the external cap- sule ") ; and Berkeley and Bonney {Journ. Obstet. and Gyncuc. Brit. Emp., vii. p. 93, 1905) speak of three varieties of rapture of the primary gestation sac—intra-tubal, or rupture into the lumen of the tube or tubal abortion, extra-tubal, which may be intra-peritoneal or extra-peritoneal, and intra-mural, when the sac ruptures into the substance of the tube wall. Rupture of the tubal pregnancy when it occurs into the lumen of the tube may be regarded as due to the destructive action of the trophoblast whose villi penetrate the internal capsule (Schambacher, Zeitsch. f. Geburtsh,. n. Gyndk., xlviii. p. 428, 1903 ; von Franque u. Garkisch, Zeitsch. f. Heilk., xxvi. p. 274, 1905), or to haemorrhage into the intervillous spaces, due to destruction of the vessel walls by the tropho- blast or to blocking of the veins with deported villi (Veit, Zentralb. f. Gyndk., xxvii. p. 849, 1903), or to contractions of the tube. The last- named theory would seem to derive some sup-