TETANUS 367 for each 25 lbs. of body weight. M'Phedran (Canadian Journal of Medicine and Snrqery, June 1909) had a successful case, and states that of 11 cases thus treated 5 have recovered. The risk of the proceeding is paralysis of the respiratory centre. The drug, therefore, must be used with caution, and it is probably advis- able to raise the head, so as to prevent the solution from reaching the medulla. Th al ass i n.—See Anaphylaxis. Theocine.—The trade name of theo- phylline, a derivative of theobromine ; it forms a white crystalline powder and has a marked diuretic action; it is soluble in 180 parts of water at ordinary temperatures, and is, on this account, best given as soluble theocine (acet- theocin sodium, a combination of acetate of sodium with dimethylxanthine sodium); it is recommended in cardiac dropsy in doses of 1^- to 5 grains, but care should be used, and some authors restrict the quantity to 3 grains every other day; it has been found to cause gastric irritation. See Fortescue - Brickdale, Neiver Remedies, pp. 90, 92, 1910. Theocine Sodium Acetate {see Theocine).—It contains about 60 per cent, of theocine, is more soluble (viz. in 23 parts of water), and is believed to cause less gastric irritation. Theoiactine.—A double salt of theo- bromine, being theobromine-sodium lactate, and containing 57 per cent, of theobromine; the dose is from 8 grains, which may be gradually in- creased up to 15 grains, thrice daily ; it acts as a diuretic. See Fortescue-Brickdale, Newer Remedies, p. 94, 1910. Theophorine. — A theobromine com- pound, being a double salt (theobromine- sodium-formate) thereof ; it contains 62-5 per cent, of theobromine ; it acts as a diuretic, and the dose is 8 grains ; but it is said to be contra- indicated in nephritis. See Fortescue-Brickdale, Newer Remedies, p. 94, 1910. Theophylline.—See Theocine. Therm if Ug^ine. — A quinine substi- tute, given in doses of 1| to 3 grains; but it is little used. Thermodin.—A drug (urethane deriva- tive) of the phenacetin group, acting as a mild antipyretic and a weak diuretic. See Fortescue- Brickdale, Newer Remedies, p. 218, 1910. Thermo-penetration. — See Dia- thermy. ThiOCOl "Roche." —A proprietary preparation, described as the potassium salt of guaiacol sulphate, C7H7O2SO3K, and said to con- tain 52 per cent, of guaiacol; it is readily soluble in water; the dose is 15 grains, in pulmonary tuberculosis, etc. ; Report in Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1910, p. 1242 ; Lancet, i. for 1910, p. 653. See also SiROLiN. Thiodine.—A thiosinamine derivative, being produced by the action of ethyl iodide upon it; it is given in doses of from 3 to 6 grains in the twenty-four hours ; but it does not appear to have any superiority to fibrolysin (the combination of thiosinamine with sodium salicylate). See Fortescue-Brickdale, Newer Remedies, p. 37, 1910. Thiophene.—A colourless fluid, with HC CH the formula || 11 HC CH; it may be combined \S/ with iodine and bromine to form yellow crystal- line substances, which are solulile in alcohol and are intended as ichthyol substitutes for external use. See Fortescue-Brickdale, Neiver Remedies, p. 28, 1910. Thiosinamine.—See Drugs, IIecent {Fibrolysin); and FiBROLYSIN. Third Corpuscles.—The blood plates, hajmatoblasts or blood plaques, colourless bodies in the blood containing no hEemoglobin, having a size of about 3 microns, staining like nuclear material, and considcT-ed by some authorities as the direct forerunners of the erythrocytes. Thoracostomy. — An operation for freeing the heart from costo-pericardial ad- hesions, consisting in the resection of parts of certain ribs and costal cartilages, and sometimes of a portion of the sternum; Brauer's cardiolysis. See Lancet, ii. for 1908, p. 7 ; ii. for 1909, p. 1494. Thorium. — See Rontgen Rays and Radium. Thorn-Apple Crystals.— B rown spherical bodies covered with spicules, found in alkaline urine and consisting of ammonium urate Thrombase.—A ferment which con- verts the fibrinogen of the blood into fibrin ; its forerunner is prothrombase, present in ths leucocytes. Thyminic or Thymic Acid.— SOLUROL.