86 CANCER mouse embryos. The other tissues used showed 110 constant effect in the direction of immunity. This, however, might be due to the blood intro- duced, for that, as Bashford had previously shown, can, like embryo pulp, produce a certain degree of immunity. Dr. Bashford and his colleagues of the Imperial Cancer Research Laboratoi'ies have I'ecently investigated certain problems in con- nection with carcinoma, as it occurs in mice. They have found that when mice were injected with normal tissue, immunity was conferred when the tissue injected was similar to that from which the neoplasm ai'ose. Othei' oi'gans, whether used collectively or individually, were devoid of this power. They were thus able to induce a neai'ly al^solute degree of protection against squamous-celled carcinoma, by injecting macerated skin. By heating the skin previous to inoculating it, instead of pi'otection being obtained, a condition was set up which favoured the growth of the tumour. The question of malignancy has recently been experimentally investigated by Apolant, and the conclusions he derives fi-om his work are of interest and consideralile consequence. Prior to embarking upon his investigations, he held the view that the degree of apparent malig- nancy of a tumour was a question entirely of its rate of gi'owth, and that the progxessive apparent increase of malignancy was due to a pi'ogressively increasing I'ate of growth with each succeeding inoculation. He now holds that " the type of sti'uctui'e of the tumour is dependent upon Inological changes in the organ- ism of the animal host." He found experi- mentally that in one tumour which had for fifty genei-ations reproduced a solid I'eticulated type of carcinoma, that it assumed an innocent adenomatous type in such animals as had been pi'eviously tieated by the immunising methods of Ehrlich and Bashford, which, of course, does not in eveiy ease prevent the tumour's develop- ment. He found that in the cases whei-e he commenced the immunising injections just after the inoculation of the tumour, this developed with a structure of the usual malignant type. When the animals were inoculated at a later period, however, or when secondary nodules developed, these were found to have the struc- ture of the innocent adenomatous type. His work shoAvs an exact countei'part of the develop- ment of malignant characteristics in a pi'evi- ously innocent tumour due to loss of tissue resistance, and it demonsti'ates clearly how, by immunising methods the loss of tissue resist- ance may he restored, and a malignant tumour become an innocent one. Cathcart has published a study of tumoui' growth, maintaining the essential similarity of innocent and malignant tumours, and showing- how gi'adual transition-stages from one to the other are met with. It will be seen from the record of the afore- described investigations that, although many results of great interest have been obtained, no discoveries have been made which have a direct therapeutic application. At the same time, it cannot be denied that a great advance in our knowledge of cancer has recently occurred. Although only detained experimentally in laboratoiy mice, it is a fact of profound signifi- cance that animals have been immunised against cancer growth, that the type of groAvth has been altei'ed from malignant to innocent, and that spontaneous disappearance of cancer can be in- duced with fairly I'egular constancy in animals in which tumours have Ijccome well established. The etiology of cancer is still obscure. Most of the investigators whose work has been already referred to would seek to explain the origin of cancer in some perverted Ijodily metal^olism. There are many able investigators who, on the other hand, maintain that tumours arise by the operation of a living virus intro- duced from without. Ford Robei'tson has done much work at this subject, and hy inA'esti- gatiiig the histological features of carcinomatous tumours, rcA'ealed by an improved ammonio- silver method of staining, claims to have ob- tained a considerable amount of additional evidence of the occurrence of intra - cellular parasites in human carcinoma. The expei'i- mental evidence of the infectiA'e origin of carcinoma has been investigated fuithei-. He experimented with mice, and injected into their abdominal Avail a fluid which had been obtained from the jjei'itoneal ca^dty of a case of malignant peritonitis following cancel', and which had Ijeen incubated at 37" C. for tAvo months. The result of the experiments Avas negatiA'e. Other mice Avere given the same fluid in their food, Avith a similar negative result. Thirty mice Avere simi- larly fed on one occasion Avith fluid from the pleural cavity of a case of malignant pleurisy. This fluid had been incubated at 37° C. for seven Aveeks. On the folloAving day they Avere giA'en fluid from a ease of malignant peritonitis, Avhich had been incubated for nine Aveeks. In the course of the succeeding five to foui'teen months, scA^en of these mice developed carcinomatous tumours, viz., three of the mamma, tAvo of the lung, one of the testicle, and one of the uterus. These tumours possessed the structure and chai'acteristics of true carcinoma. Ford Roliert- son's results are undoubtedly of interest, for although it is not denied that carcinoma may arise spontaneously in mice, the number of animals in Avhich tumoui'S dcA eloped is A'astly greater than is found ^^'hen they arise sporadic- ally. The prolonged incubation period to Avhich the malignant fluid Avas subjected has the effect, accoi'ding to Ford Robertson, of enabling the intra-cellular parasite to reach that stage in its cycle, at Avhich it is capable of pi'opagating the disease to another species.