138 ECTOPIC PREGNANCY of similar conditions in the lower animals, e.g. Leiserung's case in a cat, and Bruno Wolff's in a bitch, is not conclusive. Primary abdominal gestation must still be regarded as a probable, but as yet unproved, occurrence in the course of extra-uterine pregnancy. The secondary abdominal variety is, of course, well known, and the possibility of the implantation of the placenta, in whole or in part, on the peritoneum has been clearly established. Secondary Abdominal Pregnancy. Perhaps the most important addition that has been made to our knowledge of the secondary variety of abdominal gestation has been the increased experience which operators have gained in the management thereof. In the early months, before the placenta has become the important organ into which it develops later, the operative interference necessary does not differ in any marked fashion from that required in early tubal or ovarian pregnancy. The embryo may be found, with or without its amnion, rolled up in a fold of the omentum, while a portion of the foital sac with the develop- ing placenta remains in the ruptured tube; under these circumstances, the part of the omentum containing the embryo may be liga- tured and removed, while the tube is taken away in the usual manner. Again, the foetal sac may not yet have acquired any firm connec- tions with the omentum, but be only slightly adherent to the intestines, then it will usually be easy to separate it and remove it along with the tube from which it has emerged. The difficult cases are those in which the pregnancy is prolonged to the full term and beyond it; in which the placenta has time to acquire strong vascular connections with the peritoneum, intestines, or even with the liver; and in which the fcetal sac, being intra-peritoneal, and being composed sometimes of nothing save the deli- cate amniotic membrane, does not lend itself readily to marsupialisation. Then, indeed, the operator requires all his skill and judgment to deal successfully with the emergency which is almost certain to arise at or soon after term is reached, unless, indeed, the foetus dies, remains uninvaded by microbes, and becomes converted into a lithopsedion. In the last-named circum- stances the state of affairs may only lie dis- covered at a post-mortem examination made many yeais later, the patient dying from some other disease (e.g. pneumonia or heart disease). In Wallart's case {Zeitsch. f. Geburtsh. u. Gyndk., lix. p. 222, 1907), for instance, the patient died at the age of eighty-five, while in Haultain's {Joiirn. Obstet. and Gyncek. Brit. Emp., vi. p. 308, 1904) the lithopsedion must have lain for forty-one years in the abdomen. But the formation of a lithopsedion with subsidence of active symptoms and the disappearance of danger cannot be counted upon, and prepara- tions ought to be made for the operative treatment of full-term abdominal pregnancies. Diagnosis is not the difficulty. J. W. Taylor {Journ. Obstet. and Gyyice.e. Brit. Emp., x. p. 511, 1906) says : " In many cases the child may be almost seen through the loose abdominal walls, and, as the liquor amnii is usually deficient, the foetus can be palpated with extraordinary pre- cision and facility." Of course it is possible that the pregnancy may be tubo-ligamentary {i.e. the child may have developed between the layers of the broad ligament and consequently outside or behind the peritoneum) or even tubal, but the probabilities are, that if an extra- uterine gestation reaches full term and has the characters described by Taylor it is a secondary abdominal one. What, then, is to be the treatment? In the first place, it may be well to recognise the difficulties and dangers to be met with when the abdomen has been opened, and Potocki's case will serve as a useful warning {Aym. de gynec. et d'obste't., 2 s., v. p. 92, 1908). The patient, twenty-three years of age, was pregnant for the first time, and was nearly at the ninth month. At the end of the fourth month she had suffered from intense abdominal pain, lasting for three days; it was thought that she was aborting or was suffering from peritonitis, but no haemorrhage occurred, and she gradually recovered. About a month later the pain returned, with vomiting and syncope, and after this the patient remained at rest in bed until the full term. The abdomen was. markedly irregular in its enlargement; pal- pation discovered the foetal parts, which were very easily felt, the head lying in the left flank, while a structure, believed to be the uterus, was. on the right side. The foetal heart was heard in the middle line, above the level of the umbilicus. Full-time extra-uterine pregnancy with a living infant was diagnosed. It was determined to open the abdomen at once. The amnion was found to be slightly adherent to the anterior abdominal wall. When the ad- hesions were separated the placenta could be seen in the lower part of the amniotic sac with the foetus lying above it; to the right side was the uterus, congested, and somewhat enlarged. An opening into the gestation sac was made as. far as possible from the placenta, and the foetus was quickly extracted ; it was alive, and soon began to cry. The placenta now seemed to be separating of itself, but Potocki, on attempting to trace its connections, was met with a terrific hasmorrhage, which did not cease till he had clamped the uterine and ovarian vessels. Since the wall of the sac consisted of the amnion alone, it could not be marsupialised, and so the whole mass, with the placenta, was separated from its surroundings and removed. The uterus and the left tube and ovary were left