232 LABOUR, MANAGEMENT OF stant personal presence of the medical practi- tioner as the obstetric anaesthesia with chloroform does." Whilst it cannot be said that the scopolamine-morphine method has established itself with any degree of security in obstetric practice either in Germany, America, or in this country, neither has it, as yet, been shown to be so unsuitable or so dangerous for mother or foetus as to forbid further experiment being made with it, both in hospital oi' private practice. One has a feeling that it will probably give way, as so many other new plans have done, to chloroform inhalation ; but it is only fair that it should have a prolonged trial. It may be true that chloroform inhalation weakens the pains of labour and lengthens the intervals, although there is evidence against as well as for this statement {vide M'Kerron's summary in the Udiri. Med. Journ., N. S., ii. p. 581, 1909), and so delays the birth of the child ; it may be, also, that there is an increased tendency to third- stage bleeding and postpartum haemorrhage when chloroform has been employed (more especially if complete anaesthesia has been required); but these inconveniences can all be minimised by giving the chloroform with care and in accordance with the rules for obstetric anaesthesia, and the general practitioner will doubtless continue so to use it until some other drug or some other method has established a much stronger claim upon him than either spinal anaesthesia or the scopolamine-morphine plan has yet done. AVhen so many long-established methods of managing confinement cases are being attacked, it is little wonder that the obstetric hinder (maternal and infantile) has come under censure. Of course, the wearing of a binder after labour is a national rather than a uni- versal custom, being, for instance, common in Great Britain and America, and uncommon in Germany ; but within the past few years it has been much discussed, even in the last-named country, and Brose {Berl. hlin. Wochensch., xliii. p. 1339, 1906) now argues for its general adoption there, and Semmelink [Zentralb. f. Gymik., xxix. p. 1595, 1905) describes a new model. On the other hand, it has been criticised in America, and Whitridge Williams (Obstetrics, p. 341, 1908) has probably voiced the extreme view when he writes : "I am not in favour of its employment, and do not believe that it serves any of the purposes for which it is recommended. On the other hand, I am of the opinion that it occasionally gives rise to retroversion or retroflexion of the enlarged and soft uterus, especially if it be applied sufficiently snugly to exert compression. . . . Nor can I find any evidence of its value in restoring the figure, which will gradually return without its use, provided the tonicity of the abdominal muscles be retained." In conclusion, Williams thinks it can do no harm after the tenth day, and that " it is perhaps as well to permit its use by those patients who feel strongly that it will aid in restoring the figure, for if it be forbidden the physician will probably be blamed in case a shapeless figure follows." Edgar (Obstetrics, p. 730, 1903), however, names its advantages and urges its employment: "It tends to prevent atony and lack of contraction in the uterus, splanchnop- tosis of the abdominal viscera, and obviates the danger of sudden filling of the abdominal veins due to the greatly lessened abdominal pressure after confinement; the binder, when properly applied, conduces to the patient's comfort, especially by permitting her to assume the latei'al position." With regard to the material of which the binder is made, un- bleached muslin is preferred by Edgar, and a sort of crape, very elastic, porous, and airy, by Brcise (loc. cit.). It cannot be admitted that a convincing case has been made out against the routine use of the binder, although, perhaps, the patient and nurse may expect too much benefit to accrue from its employment; there can be little doubt that it adds to the comfort of the lying-in woman, and, for this cause alone, it may well be continued, unless it can be definitely proven to do harm. In addition to its routine use immediately after labour and in the puerperium the obstetric binder may occasionally be employed during the course of labour; it has been found to be valuable in maintaining the fcetus in its cor- rected presentation and position after version has been performed, and in some cases of accidental hsemorrhage with or without vaginal plugging. The infant's hinder has also been objected to as unnecessary, or dangerous, or both. Waring (Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1908, p. 1410), for instance, states that the only possible justification for its use is its protection of the ligatured cord, and he names the follow- ing evils which he thinks may be ascribed to its employment, viz. discomfort, vomiting, inguinal and umbilical hernia, prolapsus ani, thoracic deformities, and overlaying. It is possible, indeed probable, that when the infant's binder is tightly applied, some of these evil results may follow ; but there seems to be a general consensus of opinion that, if properly applied and fixed by means of a few stitches down the back, it keeps the cord in position and free from injury, and so serves a useful purpose. The ordinary treatment of the umbilical cord of the infant is another detail in the manage- ment of labour which has passed under criticism during the past few years. As long ago as 1899 Dickinson (I'rans. Amer. Gynec. Soc. for 1899) asked the question, "Is the sloughing process at the child's navel consistent with asepsis in child-bed 1" and of course there could be no possible answer save one in the negative.