IMMUNITY 195 groups, one a combining {haptophore), the other a poisonous {toxophore) group. Ehrlich conceives of living cells as possessed of constitutions analogous to the ring of the Benzene molecule, to which, as a centre, out- lying molecules are attached. Those outlying molecules {side-chains or receptors) ai'e supposed to subserve the nutrition of the cell by com- bining with food molecules, oxygen, etc., circu- lating in the blood. They are, also, the mechanism by means of which toxins act on the cell; the haptophore group of the toxin molecule combines with a corresponding side- chain and brings the toxophore group into relation with the cell. In consequence the cell may die, or, short of that, the side-chain may be destroyed. In the latter event the cell produces new side-chains to replace those which have been damaged, and at last, as the result of repeated doses of poison, these side- chains are manufactured in excess of the cell's needs, and are thrown off into the blood. When the haptophore group of a toxin mole- cule combines with a free side-chain the toxo- phore group is impotent, as it can no longer link itself to, and damage, the tissues. Anti- toxin is simply blood serum containing large iiumbers of free side-chains. The side-chain theory also explains the facts of haimolysis. When an animal receives a large •dose of heterologous blood cells it may be killed. It is supposed that death is caused by the union of the red blood corpuscles, or their products, with certain somatic cells. Should the dose be insufficient to kill the animal, immunity is gradually developed (sometimes supersensitisation, vide infra), and, as has been shown, an immune serum containing ■complement and amboceptor can be obtained, the amboceptor, it will be remembered, having the power of linking itself to red corpuscles. Like antitoxin, this immune serum owes its properties to containing side-chains which the attack of the injected red blood corpuscles had stimulated the body cells to cast off in excess. These side-chains constitute the amboceptor, which attach themselves to red blood corpuscles ■on the one hand and complement on the other, whereby the latter is enabled to lyse the former. Amboceptors, therefore, have two .affinities—cytophile and complementophile. The action of complement is conceived of as re- sembling that of a ferment; it must also possess two groups—haptophore, by which it anchors itself to amboceptor; zymophore, by which it destroys the cells. By a well-known simile, the cell is a lock, the amboceptor a key, the complement the hand which turns the key. Many hands may do this, but only one key will fit the lock. Ehrlich supposes that three varieties of side- chain exist. (1) Receptors of the first order. These are single haptophore groups by which toxins or food molecules become anchored to the cells. Antitoxin molecules are receptors of the first order. (2) Receptors of the second order. The side-chains consist of two groups— one haptophore, and the other possessed of some other property—digestive, agglutinative, precipitating, etc. (3) Receptors of the third order. These consist of two haptophore groups, to one of which the food molecule anchors itself, while the other has an affinity for some molecule possessed of digestive properties. Amboceptors, which need for their bactericidal or hsemolytic action the co-operation of com- plement, are receptors of the third order. Antitoxin Formation. HAEMOLYSIS. Haptophore side-chain. (Antitoxin. Receptor of first order.) Toxin—Antitoxin. Cytophile haptophore 1 Amboceptor. \ Immune body. Coiriplementopbile haptophore ) Receptor of tJhird order. Immune body uniting complement to blood corpuscle—lysis. Fig. 1. The mechanism concerned in immunity is that through which food is assimilated by the cells, and on which the normal nutrition of the tissues depends. 2. Metchnikoff's Theory of Phagocy- tosis {see Encyclop. and Diet, of Med., Vol. IV., p. 344).—According to this theory resistance to bacteria depends on phagocytosis. In man there are two main varieties of phagocytes—the poly- nuclear leucocytes {microphages), and certain large cells of the tissues which have the power of ingesting bacteria {macrophages). Insus- ceptibility to a disease results from phago- cytosis sufficiently active to destroy bacilli.