82 CAISSON DISEASE symptoms; (2) accidents during decompression are due to the liberation of bubbles of nitrogen from the blood and tissue juices, leading to air-emliolism ; (3) these effects can be prevented by slow decompression. One atmosphere equals 15 lbs. on the square iOO Multiples of Time required to produce lialf-saturation. Fig. 1.—Curve sliowiny the prot,Tess of saturation of any pai t of the body with nitrogen after any ^iven sudden rise of air- pressure.—(After A. B. Boycott.) inch (actually I4"7), and is practically equal to the weight of 3-3 feet, or 5| fathoms, of water. A pressure of " + 30 lbs." means 2 atmo- spheres above normal, or 3 atmospheres in all, or 66 feet of water. As a rule caisson workers are not exposed to higher pressure than this. Divers commonly descend to depths of 20 to 25 fathoms—120 to 150 feet, or +53 to +67 lbs. The difference Ijetween the two trades is that the former are subjected to relatively lower pressure for a longer period; the latter to higher pressure for a shorter period. The importance of this will be seen when the phenomena of saturation are discussed. Compression, at any rate to the extent generally employed, is not dangerous; it is the process of decompression which leads to the evolution of buljljles of gas in the tissues as the body, on exposure to the lowered pressure, gives up the gases with which it has been saturated at higher pi-essure. The bubbles of gas occur most commonly in the pulmonary veins, causing an emljolus which may be rapidly fatal; in the -white matter of the cord, causing paralysis; in the fluids of the body—bile, and possibly synovia;—"bends" are supposed to be due to their production in the latter situation. The bubbles consist chiefly of nitrogen. The tissues are capaljle of combining with considerable excess of oxygen (up to 10 atmospheres at least); even under very high pressure the percentage of COg in the body remains constant, as has been shown by Hill and Greenwood, hence only nitrogen has to be considered. The composition of air in the bubbles is-—Nitrogen 82, CO., 16, Oxygen 2. In ordei' to understand the rationale of the prevention and treatment of caisson disease, it is necessary to realise how saturation and desaturation of the body with nitrogen occur. Under normal circumstances the tissues dissolve a given quantity of nitrogen, x. After pro- longed exposure to 2 atmospheres of pressure (+15 ll)s.) the quantity will be 2x; at 3 atmospheres (+ 30 lbs.), 3,r, and so on. Nitro- gen is not equally soluble in all tissues ; fat takes up about five times as much as blood ; neither do all tissues become saturated at the same rate—those with a sluggish circulation saturate and desatui-ate very slowly as com- pared with the rest. Both these statements have practical bearings. The blood in the pulmonary capillaries becomes saturated with nitrogen at the pres- sure of the air in the pulmonary alveoli, and carries this excess of nitrogen to the tissues, where it is partially desaturated, and partially saturates them. It then returns to the lungs and is again saturated. Allowing for the fact that fat can dissolve large quantities of nitrogen, the body, as a whole, can take up 35 times as much of the gas as can the total volume of l)lood. From this it follows, that at the end of one complete round of the circulation the tissues will have received from the blood ^-^ part of the nitrogen required to saturate them com- pletely. But during the second round of the circulation the tissues will not receive another .j'g- of their total capacity, but only -j^g of the difference between their actual content and their total capacity, i.e. -^^g- of f|^. Thus with each I'ound of the circulation the amount taken up diminishes. In other words, the process of saturation is not steady; I'apid at first, it Ijecomes slower and slower as times goes on, for as the differences between the tissue pressure and the atmospheric pressure diminishes, the rate at which nitrogen is taken up diminishes also. The same holds good, mutatis mutandis, as regards desaturation. Experience shows that visitors to caissons, who are never exposed to the effects of com- pressed air for any great length of time, do not suffer from caisson disease. Shifts of 8 hours are definitely more dangerous than shifts of 4 hours. In all probability the body is pretty thoroughly saturated aftei- 5 hours' exposure to compressed aii'. The fact that some tissues satui'ate and desaturate more slowly than others is practically important. It is tliis property of the white matter of the cord which renders paraly.sis so common a