HEART, DISEASES OF 178 auricular fibres of the a-v bundle, from the node, or from the auriculo-ventricular bundle itself; that is, it may be an auricular, a nodal, or a ventricular extra-systole. For the differentiation of these forms simul- taneous tracings of the jugular and radial pulse are required. (a) Auricular Extra-Systole.—In the jugular trace each extra-systolic carotid pulse is pre- ceded by an auricular wave, showing that the extra-systole of the ventricles has been preceded by an extra-systole of the auricles (Fig. 7). (5) Nodal Extra^Systole.—In this form the auricles and ventricles contract both simul- taneously and prematurely. This is shown by a premature auricular wave in the venous trace coinciding in time with a premature radial beat. The auricular wave nearly obliterates the carotid wave, which, of course, also almost coincides in time with the radial beat (Fig. 8). (c) VentricularExtra^Systole.—Inthesimplest form (Fig. 8) a ventricular systole is interpo- lated between two normal beats. In the venous trace a corresponding carotid wave is interpo- TlG. 8.—In the nodal extra-systole (a' and r'), the auricular and ventricular systoles are premature and simultaneous (Mackenzie). lated, but there is no auricular wave, since the extra-systole is not initiated by a contraction of the auricles. A more common form than the above, however, is a ventricular extra-systole, which, instead of being followed by a normal beat, is followed by a long pause. This points to failure of the auricular contraction succeeding the extra-systole (the " post-extra-systolic" contraction) to initiate a contraction of the ventricles. In the venous trace, therefore, the premature ventricular systole is shown by a carotid wave. This is succeeded at the normal time by an auricular (post-extra-systolic) wave, which, however, has no carotid wave following it, and no corresponding wave in the radial tracing (Fig. 10). As we have seen, the auricular wave normally precedes the ventricular contraction. It is therefore obvious that a premature ventricular contraction may coincide in time Avith the auricular wave. In such a case the tracing resembles that of nodal extra-systole in showing simultaneous auricular and radial waves. The condition is distinguished from nodal extra- systole that in ventricular extra-systole the normal auricular rhythm is maintained, whereas in nodal extra-systole the auricular wave is premature. Mackenzie regards extra-systoles as due to affection of the a-v bundle. He finds that its conductivity is impaired (lengthening of the a-c interval), and that, post mortem, degenera- tive changes can be detected in it. Clinically, extra-systoles are met with in four groups of cases (Wenckebach):—(1) In healthy persons, with no organic disease of the heart; in neurasthenics. (2) In toxic con- ditions, e.g. tea and tobacco poisoning; in infections, e.g. pneumonia. The early occur- rence of extra-systoles in the course of this disease is a bad sign. (3) In cases of arterio- sclerosis and high blood-pressure. (4) In organic heart disease. 4. Nodal Rhythm (Mackenzie), Pulsus irregu- laris perpetims (Hering).—Under this head are included continued irregularity of the heart (such as occurs in most cases of heart failure) and paroxysmal tachycardia. In nodal rhythm the ventricles and auricles contract simul- Jucfular Fig. 9.—Ventricular extra-systole (/) interpolated between two normal beats, c' is the corresponding carotid wave. (Semi-diagrammatic, modified from Mackenzie.) taneously, and Mackenzie believes that the stimulus to contraction originates at the node of the a-v bundle. The heart's action is always irregular and generally rapid. The radial tracing shows this irregularity, while in the venous trace, instead of the normal sequence of auricular and carotid wave, there is a single wave due to auricular contractions coinciding in time with the radial beat (Fig. .3). The nodal rhythm is very embarrassing to the heart; clinically it shows itself by irregularity of the pulse, by disappearance of a pre-existing presystolic murmur, and usually by signs of heart failure. The rhythm may develop suddenly or gradually ; it is sometimes sudden in onset and of transient duration (paroxysmal tachycardia). Most cases of nodal rhythm occur in persons who have suffered from rheumatism or cardio sclerosis; there is evi- dence of fibroid change in or near the a-v bundle (Keith). Nodal rhythm is one of the most serious forms of cardiac arrhythmia; it is due to changes which cannot be cured, and the prognosis depends on how the circulation