ALTMANN'S GEANIJLES 27 ence is noted in inflammatory conditions and in innocent neoplasms, but that in malignant new growths they tend to disappear or are altogether absent from the particular type of cell involved. It has been maintained that there thus exists a " granularity" test for malignant disease, and Beckton's conclusions are (1) excluding new growths originating in cells not normally containing Altmanns granules, absence of granules from all or nearly all the essential cells of a new growth indicates malignancy ; (2) presence of Altmann's granules in all or nearly all the essential cells of a new growth is usually associated with non-malignancy, or only with malignancy of a special kind or limited degree {cf. thyroid, ovary) ; and (3) in a tumour the diagnosis of which lies be- tween inflammation and sarcoma, presence of Altmann's granules indicates the former, absence the latter. See H. Becton, Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1909, pp. 859-861 ; ii. for 1910, pp. 1422-1425. Amphimixis or Amphimyxia. —The fusion and intermixture of the germ plasm contained in the nuclei of the spermato- zoon and ovum (pronuclei) taking place in the fertilised ovum; it is a factor in variation. (Gr. dfi<j)o, on both sides, ju-t^ts, a mixing.) Amyloidosis.—General amyloid (waxy) or " chondroid" infiltration of an organ, such as the liver or spleen. Anaemia, Pernicious. — {See also Leukemia, Leukan^mia).—Hunter has elabor- ated his theory of the toxic nature of pernicious anaemia, and has described as characteristic of the disease a peculiar condition of glossitis. He regards this as one of the initial lesions, and associates it with exposure to drain infection. Hunter's observations have not, however, been generally confirmed. From a careful study of the morbid changes in a large series of cases GuUand and Goodall have arrived at the following general con- clusion :—Pernicious anaemia is essentially a megaloblastic anaemia. The evidences of blood destruction throughout the body are so widely spread as to indicate rathei' a generally increased vulnerability of the blood-cells than a patho- logically excessive haemolytic action on the part of so many tissues. In some part of the body, not necessarily the intestine, a toxin is produced which acts directly on the marrow, interfering with normoblastic blood formation, leading to megaloblastic formation, and exert- ing negative chemotactic influences on the leucocytes. The megaloblastic degeneration is a reversion to the foetal type. Treatment. — The X-rays having proved useful as a palliative remedy in leukaemia, have also been employed in pernicious anaemia. The reports which have been published are by no means encouraging, and it seems probable that the rays are as likely to do harm as good in pernicious anaemia. Byrom Bramwell advises that in the event of arsenic arresting the dis- ease and producing a certain degree of improve- ment, a course of iron should be given. He records ten striking cases in which the adminis- tration of iron after arsenic was attended with marked improvement. Aplastic Anemia.—Although this form of anaemia was described by Ehrlich in 1888, little attention has been paid to it until recently. It may be defined clinically as a severe form of pernicious anaemia which progresses steadily downwards without any of the remissions which are so characteristic of the ordinary type of the disease. The individual symptoms differ in no respect from those of any severe anaemia, but the blood picture diverges more or less from what is generally considered characteristic of pernicious anaemia. There is a marked fall in haemo- globin, red corpuscles, and leucocytes; the red corpuscles show the ordinary deformation, but megalocytes and nucleated red corpuscles are entirely, or almost entirely, absent, and the colour index is low. There is leucopenia, with relative lymphocytosis. When the absolute number of the different varieties of white cells is counted it is foinid that the diminution in the total is due to the small numl)er of poly- nuclears. From the absence of nucleated reds and the diminution of polynuclears, it may be inferred that the marrow is inactive, and, in fact, such is the case. Instead of the red jelly-like marrow which is characteristic of pernicious anaemia, the marrow in aplastic anaemia is pale yellow and shows no sign of regeneration. The cause of aplastic anaemia is unknown ; for the present it seems best to classify it as a variety of pernicious anaemia. The recognition of the existence of such a group of cases is practically important, because the prognosis is much worse as regards the duration of life than in pernicious anaemia, and a case in which the above blood picture is observed must always be looked upon with anxiety. LITERATURE.—Hunter, Lancet, i. pp. 283, 367, 1903.—GuLLANi) and Goodall, Jovrn. Path, and Bact., Jan. 1905. Aplastic Anaemia.—Hirschfelu, Berl. Iclin. Wochenschr., April 30, 1906.—Lavensen, Amer. Journ. Med. Sci., Jan. 1907, and Trans. Assoc. Amer. Phys., vol. xxi., 1906 (with discussion). Treatment.—Bramwell, Brit. Med. Journ., Ja,n. 23, 1909. Anaesthesia and Anaesthetics. General Anesthetics .... 28 Chloroform ...... 28 Narcosis Ancesthesia .... 30 Scopolamine-Morphine .... 30 Psychical Effects . . . . .31