ABORTION 13 tion we would fain hope that estimates are exaggerated; but a few lines may be quoted from Frank H. Jackson's article (Amer. Journ, Obstet, Iviii. pp. 662-670, 1908) indicating the opinion formed therein on this matter. "To our disgrace, the men who are performing most of the abortions in this State (Maine) are not outcasts from their profession ; some of them are members of this State society and its county bi-anches . . . they are often pointed out as honest, hard-working physicians, yet some of them will kill a baby in its mother's womb with as much compassion as the butcher in the abattoir performs his daily work. Putting it at a conservative estimate, I believe that there are performed fifty thousand abor- tions annually in this State." It is to be hoped that Jackson's estimate is excessive; but if it be at all near the mark, then it is high time for the adoption of such a clause in the statutes of the State of Maine as is suggested, viz. " Who- soever shall by any means whatsoever bring about, commit or attempt to commit an unlaw- ful abortion, or whosoever may aid or abet in such abortion or the bringing about of such abortion, shall be guilty of a felony." Elsewhere (p. 11) we have taken notice of the evidence regarding lead-poisoning in the arti- ficial production of abortion ; and it seems to be undeniable that diachylon in the form of pills is being largely used to terminate preg- nancies (Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1906, p. 428 ; and Lancet, ii. for 1907, p. 83). Reference may here be made to the belief that lead-poisoning in the case of the husband may have an aborti- facient effect upon the wife. Professor Oui (Compt. rend. Soc. d'obstet., de gyndc, et de pMiat. de Paris, ix. pp. 33-36, 1907) relates the case of a woman—the wife of a stereotyper—who gave birth first to three infants who died in early infancy, then after her husband had suffered from lead colic she bore seven dead and macer- ated foetuses; but, further, the man had been married before, and had had a living child by his first wife, and he had also had a living child by this woman, but these two births were before he became a stereotyper. Professor Oui refers also to Brouardel's statement regarding the wife of a house-painter who had five mis- carriages in succession and who then gave birth to a healthy full-time child; when she was questioned, she admitted that she had grown tired of aborting, and had on this occasion chosen a healthy man to be the father of her offspring. It is difficult to explain exactly the manner in which lead-poisoning in the husband causes abortion in the wife, for it is difficult to imagine that a spermatozoon can carry sufficient life to impregnate an ovum, and yet, at the same time, sufficient death (so to speak) to bring to an end the gestation it has thus initiated: one wonders whether the wife has not been poisoned by the lead in some other way than through the ovum. But, of course, the same difficulties arise in connection with paternal syphilis. (See Clement Lucas, Lancet, i. for 1908, p. 277.) There is a question which may be asked here ■—which is asked sometimes by the patient her- self : If the actual abortion be prevented, more especially if it threaten on several occasions and be finally averted, will the infant suffer in any way from the early dangers through which it passed ? No answer to this question can as yet be formulated; on li priori grounds it is reason- able to fear evil results for the child, but, as a matter of fact, many threatened abortions go on to the full time and end in the birth of per- fectly normal and living infants. At the same time, it is interesting to note that lead-poisoning in the parents has been followed by the presence in their offspring of idiocy, imbecility, epilepsy, and of macrocephaly with convulsions (Ballan- tyne. Antenatal Pathology, i. p. 262, 1902); and in a case reported by Heelis, Jacob and Trotman {Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1906, p. 2-57), a hydro- cephalic foetus was borne by a patient who con- fessed to taking three or four diachylon pills daily for a week with the hope of producing abortion ; the child survived its birth for a few hours, and after the post-mortem examination the liver was found to show traces of lead. Now, it is well known that lead in the mother's circulation may reach the foetal tissues; it is also a well-known peculiarity of lead to attack the nervous tissues by preference; and it is therefore not improlmble that the lead which this mother took to induce abortion while fail- ing as an abortifacient may have succeeded in causing structural defects in the nervous system of the foetus. Diagnosis.—No great advance in the means of diagnosing abortion falls to be recorded. The first step must always be the diagnosis of pregnancy, for of course there can be no mis- carriage from a non-pregnant uterus ; and every means of recognising early pregnancy which may be discovered will aid us in the recognition of the interruption of pregnancy. Further, the great advances which have been made in our knowledge of ectopic pregnancy {vide ECTOPIC Pregnancy) must ultimately help us more clearly to differentiate between this morl)id state and abortion; in the meantime, it must be confessed that the two are very often con- fused. Sittner {Deutsch. med. Wochenschr., xxix. pp. 743, 759, 787, 1903), Rudaux {Clinique, i. p. 246, 1906) and many others have pointed out the frequency with which an ectopic gestation has been regarded as a threatened abortion, and, conversely, a miscarriage has sometimes been taken for an extra-uterine pregnancy. In the former case the expulsion of a uterine cast may lead the medical attendant to the con- clusion that the threatened has become a com- plete or an incomplete abortion, while all the