DUSMO 123; (i. for 1909, p. 925) where it is stated that it promises to be a useful sanitary adjunct. Dyostosis, Cleido~Crania.l.-- See Ckanio-Cleido-Dyostosis. Dyspraxia,. — Difficulty in performing certain actions (e.g. protruding or withdrawing tongue, bending arm, etc.) ; it may be hysterical, and is then sometimes removable by suggestion (Williams, Lancet, ii. for 1910, p. 1548) ; it is derived from Gr. dvg, bad, and 'jroa^ig, a doing. Eclampsia. Pathogenesis 123 Thyroid Inadequdcy . . . .123 Placental or Chorio7iic Theory . . 124 Treatment 125 Accouchement Force . . . .126 Bossi's Dilator. . . . .126 Vaginal Ca;sarean Section . . 127 Lumbar I'uncture . . . .127 Renal Decapnulation . . . .128 Prevention/, . . . . . .129 One is justified in using the word " enormous " to characterise the literature which has gathered round the eclampsia gravidarum during the past five or seven years. New theories of origin have been put forward, and new methods of treat- ment founded thereon have been tried ; but it has still to be confessed that all this wealth of research, with its theoretical discussions and its therapeutical novelties, leaves the mortality of this complication of the pregnant and parturient state very much where it was ten years ago. Eclampsia is still the opprobrium medicorum in obstetrics. At the same time, it may be well to indicate briefly the new theories of pathogenesis and methods of treatment, for in some of them may lie concealed the long- looked-for explanation and cure of this disastrous malady or group of maladies. Theory of Thyroid Inadequacy.—This novel theory had its origin in Lange's observations, published in 1899 {Zeitsch.f. Geburtsh. u. Gy7,dk., xl. p. 34, 1899). Beginning with the fact that normally the thyroid gland is enlarged in pregnancy, Lange noted that in twenty out of twenty-two cases in which this hypertrophy was aljsent there was albuminuria ; he observed that thyroidin given to pregnant women in whom hypertrophy had occurred caused diminu- tion in the size of the gland; diminution in size also followed the administration of thyroidin in a case in which there was pathological enlargement of the gland ; and he found that iodothyrin, given to patients suffering from the nephritis of pregnancy, was productive of diuresis, although the albuminuria was not much lessened. These observations led Oliphant Nicholson, in October 1900, to test the effect of thyroid extract in eclampsia (Trans. Edin^ Obstet. Soc, xxvi. p. 188, 1900-1), in one case under the care of Elmslie Henderson, and in another in the Edinburgh Eoyal Maternity Hospital, under Ballantyne; later, Nicholson reported four additional instances (Traris. Edin. Obstet. Soc, xxvii. p. 160, 1901-2), and since- then has discussed on several occasions the theoretical aspects of the subject, and given details of other cases similarly treated {Ibid.^ xxviii. p. 84, 1902-3; xxix p. 50, 1903-4; xxxi. p. 213, 1905-6; Kdin. Med. Journ., N. S., ii. p. 456, 1909). This theory proceeds on the assumptions that there is always a toxaemia in pregnancy (the result of foetal metabolism) ^ that this state is more marked towards the close of gestation (causing increased blood- tension and cardiac hypertrophy); that errors of diet, etc., may at any time so increase the toxic condition as to cause convulsions ; and that, although the toxfemia is constant, the toxic agent causing the convulsions may differ, and (for this is the pait in which this theory stands apart from others) may in some instances be produced by thyroid inadequacy. So long as the kidneys are able to eliminate the toxines no grave symptoms will result, ])utany checking (especially a sudden one) of the renal functions will produce evil consecjuences. Nicholson discussed the pre-eclamptic signs and symptoms (oedema, albuminui'ia, diminished secretion of urine, high arterial tension, headache, eye conditions, diai'rhoea, and muscular twitchings), and maintained that they were all capable of exjjlanation by the theory of thyroid inadequacy. He thought, also, that through defect of the thyroid secretion the action of the suprarenal glands might be permitted to become excessive, leading to constriction of arterioles (especially those of the kidney) and increased blood- pressure, that the formation of urea ("the most powerful diuretic substance with which we are acquainted ') would be diminished and the quantity of urine be lessened, and that the liver, being unable to cope with the untrans- formed proteids sent to it, would also become inadequate. These factors would combine to produce eclampsia. In a later article (1902), Nicholson introduced inadequacy of the para- thyroids as well as of the thyroid gland into his scheme of pathogenesis. For the treatment of eclampsia and the pre-eclamptic state he therefore recommended and practiced the use of thyroid extract alone or in combination with moi'phia ; the morphia was employed for its immediate effect in checking the convulsions, and was given in a dose of half a grain (repeated once or even twice) hypodermically, and the thyroid could be admin stered before the con- vulsions or between them (if the patient were unable to swallow), or it might be given, as the liquor thyroidei, by the hypodermic needle, or dissolved in saline solution (MacNab, Journ.