CHOREA GRAVIDARUM 105 by a saline diaphoretic and diuretic mixture, and the bowels were regulary opened with calomel or jalap; enemata of saline solution were to be given in serious cases. No hypnotics were recommended, and the induc- tion of labour was regarded as strongly contra- indicated. Of course this plan of treatment is revolutionary as regards the management of chorea gravidarum ; but its good effect is borne out by Shaw's statistics, and, if the toxa3mic theory of the malady be the right one, the eliminative method of dealing with it is, at any rate, theoretically correct. The next quin- quennium will show whether it has answered expectations. Christian Science.—A system of healing by religious suggestion, introduced by the late Mrs. Eddy, who published her book, ^Science and Health, in 1875, and organised the first Christian Science Church in Boston in 1879; it is stated that "the only means employed in Christian science practice for the healing of sickness and sin are mental" (C. Lilias Ramsay, Encyclop. Relig. v. Ethics, iii. p. 578); the whole matter is discussed from the medical aspect in the British Medical Journal (i. for 1910, pp. 1453-1478, 1483-1503) by Sir Cliflford Allbutt, Sir Henry Morris, Mr. H. T. Butlin, Professor Osier, Dr. Claye Shaw, and others, and by Mr. Stephen Paget in his book. The Faith and Works of Christian Science (1909). Chromaffin Cells.—Cells possessing a marked affinity for chrome salts, found in the medulla of the suprarenal body, in sympathetic ganglia in the abdomen, in the coccygeal gland, a.nd in the carotid body ; they differ in their functions from ordinary nerve cells, and they seem to be always associated with the production of adrenin. ChromatophoreS. Pigmented cells found in the choroid coat of the eye, in the corium and between the cells of the stratum malpighii, and also in pigmented moles (melan- omas) ; they are stellate in form, and are believed by some to absorb certain substances from the blood, to elaborate these substances into melanin, and to carry them (hence the name chromatophore) to the epithelial cells, but differences of opinion exist as to their origin and actions. Chromidia.—Nucleolar matter in the form of globules or granules discharged from the nucleus of a cell into the cytoplasm ; plasmo- somes ; mitochondria. Chromidiation. — The discharge of nucleolar globules (chromidia or plasmosomes) into the cytoplasm of the cell. Citrated Milk.—See Infant Feeding {Use of Sodium Citrate). Cleidorrhexis. — See Embryotomy {Cleidotomy). Cleidotripsy.—See Embryotomy {Cleid- otomy). Clupeine. — A basic amino-acid, derived from simple proteins (protamine) in the fish sperm ; it has the formula CaoHj^Nj-Og -1- 4H2O ; salmin. Coagulometer.—'S'ee Blood {Coagtda- tion). Coccid i idea.—See Protozoa{Sporozoa). Cod renin.—A proprietary preparation, being a solution containing cocaine hydro- chloride and adrenaline chloride, acting as a local anaesthetic and hajmostatic ; for Report, see Jourti. Amer. Med. Assoc., xlix. p. 1029, 1907. Coliuria. — The presence of bacterium coli in the urine ; colibacilluria. Collarg'Ol.—A colloid solution of silver in a state of tine suspension ; it has been used in the treatment of sepsis {e.g. puerperal infec- tion) in the form of pills (10 grains), as an inunction (1 drachm to 1 oz. of lard), jDer rectum, and by intravenous injection (10 c.c. of a 1 per cent, or 2 per cent, solution); and it is also known as colloidal silver, Argentum col- loidale, and Argentum Crede. Complementophile. —'S'ee Immun- ity {Ehrlichls Side-Chain Theory). Concrement.—A term used often as a synonym of calculus, but better restricted to deposits of calcareous salts (growing by concre- tion) within the ducts and passages, the word calculus being reserved for deposits of the specific excretions of various glands. See Adami, Pathology, vol. i. p. 934. Confabulation. — See Alcoholism {Korsakoffs Psychosis). Cong^estin. — See Anaphylaxis ; Im- munity. Conjunctival Reaction.—See Im- munity {Siiecific Tuberculin Tests). Conservation of Child Life.— The attempts that are being made to increase the birth rate and to preserve in life and health the new-born infants of parents living in