268 MULTIPLE MYELOMA entering blood - stream ; no Bence - Jones's albumosuria—myelogenous leukaemia, myelocy- thsemia. REFERENCES. — Parkes Webek, Med. - Ckir. Trans., vol. Ixxxvi., 1903 (gives abstracts of recorded cases, and literature).—Christian, Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., 7th May 1908 (histology, with literature). MusiCOtherapy.—The employment of music as a means of treating disease. The subject is exhaustively dealt with in Professor I^a Torre's La Jfnsica al Tribimale d'lgea (Torino, 1910), which is a well-illustrated book ■of over 250 pages. Muskoka Sanatoriums. — Sana toriums for tuberculosis in the Muskoka Lake Disti'ict, about 100 miles from Toronto, Canada. For description see Lancet, ii. for 1910, p. 1041. Mutation.—A term (introduced by De Vries) for the sudden formation of a species, in contrast with variation (De Vries, Die Mutatio7is-theorie, 1901). Myatonia Cong^enita.—This name was applied by Oppenheim in 1900 to a congeni- tal condition of localised or general atony of the muscles, especially of the legs. He conjectured that the disease was due to an arrested develop- ment of the muscles. Myatonia congenita is a rare affection, and not very many cases have been recorded. The disease is apparently always congenital, though the pai-esis and atony of the muscles may escape notice for a few months—until such time as a normal infant ought to be trying to hold up the head and use its muscles more freely. The chief symptom is a marked hypotonicity, with loss of the power of voluntary movement, of the muscles generally, including those of the trunk. The diaphragm, and the muscles innervated by the cranial nerves, escape. The patients can neither stand, sit upright, nor hold up the head. The palsy is not necessarily complete, and slight movement of the limbs or hands may be possible. Though they feel soft and flabby, the muscles are not really atrophied ; the electrical reactions are quantitatively diminished or absent in bad cases ; normal in slight ones. The tendon-jerks are abolished. The sphincters appear to act normally ; swallowing is unimpaired. In Oppenheim's original description, the mental function was said to be unaffected, l)ut in Baudouin's case there appeared to be some mental dulness, and in Spiller's case the vision was apparently very defective. Myatonia congenita is not a family disease, and it is not related to rickets, con- genital syphilis, or malnutrition. Post-mortem examinations have been made on at least two cases. Baudouin found that the anterior horns of the grey matter of the spinal cord and the anterior roots were abnormally small, and that the medullation of the sciatic and other nerves was defective. The muscles showed marked changes of a retrogressive character—sclerosis, inequality of the muscle fibres, increase of the nuclei, and disappearance of the transverse .striation. Spiller describes the nervous system of his case as healthy ; the muscles had a hyaloid appearance, and contained much fatty tissue ; the fibres were small, and the striation was indistinct. In a later communication dealing with the findings in the same case. Smith described fibrosis of the thymus and enlargement of Hassal's corpuscles, and endo- thelial proliferation in the thymus and in the spleen. There was also proliferation of the lymphoid elements of the mesenteric glands. Smith looks on the muscular lesion as definitely a part of the pathology of the malady, and suggests that the fibrosis of the thymus may, in some way or other, have so altered the function of that organ as to have brought about the muscular change. Diagnosis and Prognosis.—In connection with the differential diagnosis of the disease, the following maladies have to be excluded— post-rachitic pseudo-paralysis, myopathies, pro- gressive musculai- atrophy, amaurotic idiocy, and mental defect generally, associated with extreme hypotonicity and flaccidity of the muscles. Collier and S. A. K. Wilson state that while the post-mortem findings are com- patible with a condition of myopathy, the following clinical facts tend to show that myatonia (or, as they would call the disease, amyotonia) is distinct from that malady:— Myatonia is not a family disease, and has not been reported in a myopathic family. In the large majority of cases it is congenital, whereas myopathy is not. There is marked flaccidity, but not local muscular wasting—in myopathy it is the reverse. Myopathies pursue a down- ward course ; myatonia undergoes progressive amelioration, with return of the deejo reflexes. The chief points to be borne in mind are that the disease is congenital, or noticed for the first time during the earlier months, and that it is not progressive. The prognosis is not necessarily bad, for some cases recover. The chief danger to life arises from the presence of bi'onchitis. REFERENCES.—Oppenheim, Monatsscli. /. Psijchi- atrie u. Neurologic, Sept. 1900.—Spiller, Univ. Penn. Med. Bid!., Jan. 1905.—S.mith, Ibid., Oct. 1905.— Baudouin, Sem. vied., 22nd May 1907.—Collier and S. A. K. Wilson, Brain, p. 1, 1908. Myelaemia.—Asynonym of splenomyelo- genous leukajmia. Myeloblastoma. — See Chlokoma {Glassification).