BLOGD-PRESSURE 73 and eliminate articles which stimulate the circulation — alcohol, condiments, extractives. 2. Reduce the proteid of the diet, and the fluid drunk. 3. Encourage thorough mastication. 4. Moderate use of tea and coffee. Forbid alcohol. 5. A lacto-farinaceous diet for a period of several weeks is sometimes useful. 6. Tobacco should be prohibited, as it causes the pressure to rise. 7. There should be a period of absolute rest, followed by carefully graduated exercise. 8. Various forms of baths are useful. 9. The cutaneous function should be attended to. The bowels ought to be evacu- ated freely. Intestinal antiseptics may be given. 10. Vaso-dilator drugs—thyroid and nitrites. Action of the Nitrites.—The action of the different nitrites in high blood-pressure has been worked out comparatively by Matthew. He finds that liquor trinitrini (COii) produces an average fall of 28 mm. Hg with in 5 minutes; the action is short-lived, the pressure regaining its old level in half an hour. Sodium nitrite (2 grs.) produces an average fall of 32-5 mm. Hg in a quarter of an hour. The effect lasts longer, and the old level is not reached until 1 to 2 hours has elapsed. Ery- throl tetranitrate (1 tablet) produces an average fall of 34 mm. Hg in 22 minutes. The pres- sure remains low for 1 to 2 hours, and the effect does not wholly pass off for from 4 to 6 hours. LITERATURE.—The following are some of the chief sources of information. — Oliver. Studies in Blood-Pressure, 2nd ed. (Lond.), 1908.—Janeway. New York Med. Journ., Feb. 2, 1907; The Clinical Study of Blood-Pressure (Lond.), 1905.—Strasbdrgek. Zeitschr. f. klin. Med., liv. p. 373, 1904; Deutsch. Arch. f. klin. Med., Hefte 3 and 4, 1907.—Mdller. Ergeh. d. inn. Med. u. Kinderheilk., ii. 1908 (biblio- graphy).—Gibson. Quarterly Journ. Med., Oct. 1907. —Matthew. Ihid., April 1909.—Lauder Brdnton. Therapeutics of the Circulation (Lond.), 1908.—Hutchi- son. Applied Physiology (Lond.), chap, v., 1908.— RussEi.L. Arterial Hypertonus and Blood-Pressure, ed. 1907-—Leonard Hill and Flack. Brit. Med. Journ., Jan. 30, 1909. Bordet-Geng^ou Phenomenon. —A term used in bacteriology and immunity to signify certain phenomena obsei'ved indepen- dently by Bordet and Gengou. It consists in the deviation of the complement by means of an antigen and its antibody, and it is of use in the diagnosis of syphilis (Wasserraann's reaction) and of hydatid disease. See Adami, Pathology, i. p. 547, 1910 ; Editorial in Lancet, i. for 1910, p. 734. Bovril Wine.—A proprietary meat wine containing alcohol, meat extract, and glucose. Vide analysis in Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1909, p. 795. Boy-Scout Movennent. — A move- ment initiated in 1908 by Lieut.-General Sir Robert Baden-Powell for the training of boys and youths in scouting, including physical exercises and drills and the development of the faculties of judgment and observation; besides its other advantages it possesses that of giving the lads healthy outdoor exercise with some measure of adventurous excitement, but the advice of the familj^ doctor ought to be invoked before any boy is permitted to take part in it. See Annotation in Lancet, i. for 1910, p. 445. Brevon Bread. — An easily digested and highly nutritive bread. For Report see Lancet, i. for 1910, p. 36. Brill's Disease.—One of the diseases which simulates typhoid fever in its clinical symptoms, and yet seems to be a separate malady, has received the above name, after Nathan E. Brill, who first described its char- acters in 1898 {New York Med. Journ., Ixvii. pp. 48, 77, 1898). Dr. Brill's article was entitled " A Study of Seventeen Cases of a Disease Clini- cally Resembling Typhoid Fever, but without the Widal Reaction, together with a Short Review of the Present Status of the Sero- Diagnosis of Typhoid Fever," and since its appearance E. Libman {Johns Hopkins Hosp. Bull, xvii. p. 215, 1906) and H. F. L. Ziegel {Med. Itec, June 25, 1910), and others have agreed with the conclusions reached. Dr. Bi'ill himself has recently brought the whole subject afresh before the medical world in a paper entitled "An Acute Infectious Disease of Unknown Origin : a Clinical Study Based on 221 Cases " {Amer. Journ. Med. Set., N.S.,cxxxix. p. 484, 1910), and the matter has been discussed in an editorial in the Medical liecard of April 30, 1910. There are several morbid states which resemble typhoid fever, viz., tuberculosis, septic endocarditis, malaria, influenza, some forms of meningitis, intestinal saprajmia, the coli infections, meat poisoning, and what has been called paratyphoid fever, but Brill is of opinion that the disease described by him is none of these, and yet is not typhoid fever. The Widal test is always negative, and the Eberth bacillus is invariably absent; leucopenia is exceptional, and the leucocyte count is usually normal. In place of the roseolar eruption of typhoid there occurs a maculo-papular one ; the spots appear in a single crop, generally before the seventh day, on the abdomen and back at first, but elsewhere (chest, neck, hands, feet) later, are profuse, and do not entirely disappear on pressure. The rash disappears rapidly with defervescence. At the commencement of the disease fever begins abruptly (after a feAV days' malaise) and is often high, reaching its acme in about three days, and remaining high till defervescence (in one or two weeks), which is either by crisis or rapid lysis. There is severe headache, and in some cases meningism, but recovery is very frequent and convalescence