KIDNEYS, SURGERY OF 222 or simple incision of the capsule, or puncture of the kidney, as well as, or along with, capsulec- tomy, have been performed. Kienbock's Method.—A method of X-ray application for the cure of favus and ringworm of the scalp. See Adamson, Lancet, i. for 1905, p. 1715 ; i. for 1909, p. 1378. Kinematog^raphy. — See Rontgen Rays and Radium {Rontgen Kinematography). Klapp's Suction Cups.—Bier's Method ; Skin Diseases {Bier's Treatment). " Klopfversuch."—Literally the tap- ping experiment, being the name given to Croltz's method of artificially producing syncope ; if one taps a frog o\ er the intestines, the effect is to cause an arrest of the circulation associated with accumulation of the blood of the body in the abdominal veins; there is evidence that the effect is due either to inhiljition of the splanchnic vaso-constrictor centres (whereby the abdominal veins become dilated), or to stimulation of the cardiac inhibitory centre (whereby the heart's action is arrested). See Adami, Patholog^j, i. pp. 582-583, 1910. Knop-Hufner Method.—A ^Dlan for determining the amount of urea in urine; it depends upon the decomposition of the urea by means of sodium hypobromite and the measure- ment of the nitrogen set free. Kobelt'S Tubes.—The outer vertical tubules of the parovarium (or organ of Rosen- miiller) which do not reach the ovary, but end in flask-like dilatations (which may form cysts, KobeWs cysts). KokO.—A proprietary preparation, a hair- grower, whose anah^sis is given in the British Medical Journal (i. for 1910, p. 151) ; it con- tains borax, glycerine, formaldehyde solution, perfume, alcohol, and water. Kolle's Serum.—See Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis, Epidemic {Treatment, Curative). Kolynos Dental Cream.—A pro- prietary preparation recommended for the care of the teeth ; according to the Lancet Report {Lancet, i. for 1910, p. 1007), the antiseptic agents it contains are benzoic acid, eucalyptus oil, peppermint oil, and thymol, whilst the vehicles are soap, precipitated chalk, alcohol, and glycerine ; it is said to cleanse the teeth without injuring them, and to maintain mouth asepsis. Drs. Thresh and Beale report upon the action of liquid kolynos on the bacillus of influenza {Lancet, i. for 1910, p. 1406), finding that it apparently destroys that organism when used as a spray. Kromayor Lamp.—A quartz lamp of mercury vapour, of U-shape, used for the sterilisation of water, and for local application of actinic rays in phototherapy in such diseases as lupus, vascular nsevi, acne rosacea, alopecia areata, etc.; it is well to use it with a uviol (ultra-violet) glass screen. See Nogier, Arch, d'electric. med., xviii. pp. 174, 481, 1910. Kuatsu.—See Abrams' Heart Reflex. Kyrins.—Proteins or bodies of a "poly- peptoid " nature, which are resistant to tryptic digestion, and which on treatment with acid yield amino-acids, some of which are present in the products of tryptic digestion and some not. See Adami, Pathology, i. p. 62, 1910. Lab.—Chymosin or reunin ; the gastric ferment which has the power of curdling milk by coagulating the casein ; pepsin and lipase are the other two ferments. Labour, Forceps in.—Little requires to be said regarding the position of the forceps- operation in obstetric practice during the past quinquennium. The revival of symphysiotomy and pubiotomy has tended to narrow the sphere of the forceps, whilst, on the other hand, the neglect of version has had the effect of slightly broadening it. There seems to be a growing feeling against the use of the instrument in high cases, especially in contracted pelves ; and it is only too true that such an application of the forceps is sometimes simply a craniotomy in disguise, an embryulcia under a wrong name. On the other hand, it would seem, from some discussions which have taken place on the subject, that the use of forceps in cases of simple delay in labour, without marked pelvic contraction, is increasingly frequent. Thus in a discussion on the use and abuse of midwifery forceps {Trans. Edin. Obstet. Sac, xxix. p. 231 et seq., 1904) in 1904, Drs. Dewar, Macvie, Somerville, Hamilton, and Spence all spoke strongly in favour of having frequent recourse to the forceps, and bore witness to the safety of such a practice and to the good results arising from it. Even mider these cii'cum- stances, however, the late Dr Horrocks and those who advocate his policy of non-interference in from 90 to 95 per cent, of all labours {Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1906, pp. 712, 713, 737, 773, etc., etc.) would forbid the employment of forceps ; this may be described as an extreme opinion. It is on the Continent, and especially in Germany and Austria, that the revolt against the routine use of forceps in contracted pelves has taken its orgin and made its influence felt. Leisewitz {Arch. f. Gynaek., Ixxxi. p. 686, 1907), for instance, publishes statistics which must be described as startling. He states that