REFLEXES 322 the legs being flexed and slightly rotated outwards. The examiner stands on the outer side of the leg, and presses firmly over the middle and lower third of the calf muscles. Bechterew's Dorsal Foot Reflex.^— When the outer aspect of the dorsum of the foot in the region of the cuboid bone is tapped with a percussion hammer, a more or less distinct extension of the toes, from the second to the fifth, or of some of these, occurs. In many cases of organic nervous disease, accompanied by spastic paralysis of the legs, the extensor movement is replaced by flexion. The reflex is abolished in tabes, polyneuritis, and polio- myelitis. A flexor reflex is accompanied by positive Babinski, but positive Babinski is not always associated with Bechterew's flexor reflex. Osann, after a careful study of the reflex, concludes (1) that it is a direct muscular reflex, depending on stimulation of the extensor brevis digitorum; (2) that its absence is not important; {3) that the flexor reflex is pathological, and occurs in spastic paralysis, often with Babinski's sign; (4) that although these two are often associated, they are not essentially related : the plantar reflex is purely cutaneous, and independent of muscular tone; Bechterew's reflex is purely muscular, and depends on the presence of tonus. Achilles Tendon Reflex.^—This is most easily tested by making the patient kneel on a padded stool or chair with the feet hanging over the edge, and tapping on the tendo-Achilles with a stethoscope or percussion hammer. It is as constantly present in health as the knee- jerk, and its abolition has the same significance as loss of the knee-jerk. Out of 3290 patients, Congen found that it was diminished or absent only under pathological conditions. Toe-Reflex (Rossolimo).'^—This is a patho- logical reflex which, according to Rossolimo, is observed only in afl"ections of the pyramidal tract. It is elicited by gently stroking the plantar surface of the great toe, whereupon, after a longer or shorter time, flexion or abduc- tion of the toe occurs. The great toe, the other four toes, or all five, may show move- ments. It is said that the toe-reflex never occurs in neurosis, and that it may be present when Babinski's sign is absent. Reflexes in Children.^—Engstler ex- amined the plantar reflex in 1000 children. In newly-born children an extensor response is normal; from the sixth to the eighteenth month plantar and dorsal flexion are equally common ; after the second year there is usually a flexor response. Anything which delays develop- ment—e.g. rickets—tends to hinder the trans- mutation of the one type of response into the other, but the flexor type may be foinid in children who have never walked. Practically, the examination of the plantar reflex is value- less below the third year. The knee-jerk is constantly present from birth, and the Achilles jerk from the fifth or sixth month. The abdominal reflexes are absent in 80 per cent, of cases during the first month, in 65 per cent, during the second month, in 45 per cent, during the third month, and in 50 per cent, during the fourth month. The cremasteric reflex is constant after the eleventh month (Bychowski). The lip-reflex of newly-born infants is re- ferred to in connection with Spasmophilia {q.v.). Moro has described another reflex in newly-born infants ; it consists of a contraction of the orbicularis palpebrarum, which is brought about by tapping over the glabella or root of the nose. It is a protective reflex. Reflexes in Infectious Diseases."—The abdominal reflex in typhoid fever is referred to under Typhoid Fever. This reflex is often abolished in cerebro-spinal fever. In pneumonia the knee-jerk is often lost; its early dis- appearance (before the third day) is a sign of severe infection. Absence of the knee-jerk is of some use in diagnosing between lobar and broncho-pneumonia in children, for in the latter it is seldom abolished. Kernig's Sign.*—Normally, the extended leg can be flexed on the trunk almost to a right angle. In certain diseases, especially menin- gitis, when the thigh is flexed to a right angle with the trunk, the leg cannot be extended at the thigh; this is known as Kernig's sign. It is easily tested for with the patient lying on his back. The knee is raised until the thigh is vertical, and an attempt is made to raise the heel until the leg is horizontal. When the sign is well marked the hamstring muscles prevent the leg being extended beyond a right angle. Kernig's sign is so constantly present in meningitis as to be of considerable value in diagnosis, but it is not pathognomonic. It also occurs in meningeal hajmorrhage, in some infectious diseases, especially typhoid, in uraemia, and occasionally in sciatica and lumbago. Ker- nig's sign is due to contraction of the hamstring muscles, and this in its turn has been ascribed to hypertonicity, either from increased pressure of the cerebro-spinal fluid, or irritation of the cord or nerve roots. Another explanation is that it is simply a reflex due to pain, its object being to prevent dragging on the roots of the sacral plexus. A different explanation is pro- pounded by Moncano. According to him, flexion of the extended limb in the trunk involves rotation of the pelvis round a transverse axis ; when the spine is rigid this caruiot take place, hence complete flexion is impossible. Moncano believes that Kernig's sign is due to rigidity of the lumbar region of the spine, which is often met with in cerebro-spinal meningitis. REFERENCES.—1. WnrrE, Med. Rcc, New York, 5th July 1905.—2. Gordon, Amer. Med.. 3rd Dec. 1904 ;