HYPNOIDAL STATE AND HYPNOIDISATION 191 that when she should open her eyes she would feel better than she had in a great many years. A cure followed, although there were two slight recurrences easily removed by waking suggestion. Other instances might be given, but the above will serve to indicate the type of case which is suitable for such treatment, and the method of using the hypnoidal state. LITERATURE.—In addition to the articles already mentioned, reference may be made to Yung, Arch, de Psychol., viii. pp. 263-285, 1908-9; and to SiDls, Month. Cycl. and Med. Bull., ii. p. 473, 1909 ; Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., cxli. pp. 242, 287, 323, 356, 1909. Hypnone.—A hypnotic of the ketone group, said to be unreliable in action and apt to cause headache. See Fortescue-Brickdale, Guide to the Newer Remedies, p. 142, 1910. Hypoalimentation. — A term em- ployed by Merklin (vide La Clinique Infantile, Ann., ix. pp. 41-53, 1911) to designate the troubles in infants due to insufficient feeding, and regarded by him as more exact than inanition ; the troubles include wasting, re- tarded growth, vomiting, constipation, crying, oliguria, slow sucking (bradyphagy), etc. Hypochlorite Treatment. — The treatment of inoperable cases of cancer by means of hypodermic injections of a solution of the hypochlorites of potassium and sodium made near to but not into the tumour. See Becker's article in Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1909, p. 274. Hypochromatosis, Nuclear.— The condition of the nucleus of a cell in which there is a reduction in the number of chromosomes; the process by which it is pro- duced is therefore termed a hypochromatic mitosis and is the converse of hyperchromatic mitosis (in which the number of chromosomes is in excess of that which is normal for the species). Hypogenesis, Polar.—Cessation of growth and development at one of the grow- ing points in the embryo, e.g. arrested growth at the superior pole giving rise (as is supposed) to the Cyclops monstrosity, and the same defect at the inferior pole causing the sireniform monstrosity (sympus); the converse condition is polar hyperplasia leading to superior and inferior dichotomy (dicephalus, etc.). Hypopharyng^OSCOpy.—The inspec- tion of the hypopharynx (laryngeal part of the pharynx) lying behind the lamina of the cricoid cartilage. See P. Tetens Hald {Lancet, i. for 1907, pp. 1421-1424). " Hypoplastic Constitution."— The morbid state, often due to congenital infec- tion (syphilis, tuberculosis), chai'acterised by excessive deposit of fat, under the skin, an infantile condition of the genitals, persistence of the thymus, and various anomalies of development (open foramen ovale, uterine mal- formations, etc.) ; Bartel has given the results of 100 post-mortems performed in cases of this condition [Lancet, ii. for 1908, p. 339). Hypostatic Albuminuria. — A form of functional albuminuria which is present only when the patient is in the recumbent position ; it is sometimes, but not always, associated with enlargement of the spleen. Hysterorrhaphy.—Ven tral suspension of the uterus. See Uterus, Prolapsus and Retro-Deviations of (Operative Treatment). IC h t h ofO rm.—Acombinationof ichthy ol with formaldehyde, forming an odourless, tasteless, insoluble powder ; it is recommended as an intestinal antiseptic, in doses of 15 to 30 grains (for adults). Ichthyol Substitutes.—On account of its unpleasant taste and smell there are objections to the use of ichthyol, and these have been met by such sul)stitutes as ichthalbin, ichthoform, and desichthyol (ichthyol deodorised by superheated steam). Idants.—The name given to the loops of the aster of the nucleus of the ovum (Weismann) or other cell; the chromatin bodies. ids.—A term used in Weismann's theory of heredity to signify combinations of determinants or biophoric groups (aggregates of molecules each controlling or determining one particular cell area of the body); each id or unit of germ-plasm contains the full complement of determinants necessary to give origin to the complete individual, and each comes into the ovum from a different ancestor. For a criticism of this theory of ids, see Adami, Pathology, i. pp. 134, 135, fr. llOSvay Reagent.—The Griess-Ilosvay reagent or simply the Ilosvay reagent is a means of detecting the nitrites in water, saliva, etc. ; it consists of half a gram of sulphanilic acid dissolved in 150 c.c. of dilute acetic acid and treated with one-tenth of a gram of naphthylamin dissolved in 20 c.c. of boiling water ; on standing a blue sediment falls which is separated and dissolved in 150 c.c. of dilute acetic acid, forming the reagent; a few drops added to the fluid to be tested and heated, show a red colour if nitrites be present.