3 ABDOMINAL SECTION the following morning a large enema (e.g. of salt solution) should be administered. Some operators prefer calomel (2 or 3 grains in divided doses), followed by a saline purgative (e.g. Epsom salts). The chief point is that the bowels shall have been thoroughly emptied some hours befoi'e operation, and that their action shall have ceased at the time when the surgeon arrives. The diet should be of the kind given to an invalid for two or three days prior to operation ; for twenty-four hours he should have nothing save liquid food, and breakfast should be at least three hours before operation, and should consist of a cup of tea and some toast, or of a bowl of meat soup. The patient should rest in bed for a day or two so as to accustom himself to invalid ways (use of bed-pan, etc.) and to encourage the regular action of the skin, and for this latter object he should take two or three baths. If he be in feeble health a longer time may be required, during which he may be fed up, may receive massage, and may take such tonics as tincture of nux vomica, iron, and possibly digitalis. Immediately before the operation the patient ■empties the bladder. After he has taken his place on the operating table the administration of the anaesthetic is begun, and the final sterilisa- tion of the abdomen is carried out; this should include the back if operation on the kidneys is contemplated, and the lower part of the thorax if the liver or stomach is to be operated upon, but, as has been pointed out by Treves and Hutchinson (op. cit., i. p. 74), there is no need in every case to shave and prepare the skin "from the nipples to the knees." It is import- ant that the patient's body (the part of it not within the operation area) be warmly clad during the operation. The Instruments.—Many of the abdominal operations require special instruments, but those •enumerated here are common to all cases of laparotomy. There will be two or three knives, one of which should be curved and probe- pointed ; two pairs of dissecting forceps; two pairs of scissors (curved and flat); numerous small pressure forceps (ten to twenty pairs); three or four pairs of large pressure forceps; abdominal retractors, simple or self-retaining, two at least; needle-holders (easily worked): needles, curved and straight; ligatures and sutures (catgut, silkworm gut, silk, perhaps kangaroo tendon); swabs or sponges (a definite number), and sponge-holders. These are all placed on a tray or trays on the instrument table, which is in immediate proximity to the operator (usually behind him), and may be in charge of an instrument clerk; near him also will be basins containing sterile water and an antiseptic solution for hand-cleansing during the operation. The anaesthetist's armamen- tarium (mask, tongue forceps, hypodermic syringe, anaesthetics, etc.) will be near him (as he sits at the head of the operating table) on a small table or stool. What has been called the supply table is usually in charge of a nurse or sister, and on it will be found the dressings, antiseptics, jars of sterile water, brushes, towels, and exceptionally used apparatus such as cautery, saline solution jar, cannula and tubing, catheters, extra gloves sterilised in bag, and medicines. The Incision.—When the patient is put on the operating table (a narrow one, known and tested immediately before for conversion into Trendelenburg posture, etc.) a blanket should be wrapped round his lower limbs, and this should be carefully covered by a mackintosh ; his upper limbs should be protected by a flannel jacket or another blanket and mackintosh; the abdominal area should be surrounded on all sides by dry sterilised towels so that nowhere shall the blankets or mackintosh come within touch of the operator's hands or instru- ments. The patient's arms should be kept out of the way and fixed at the wrists by bandages passed under the table. The sterile gauze pad covering the abdomen must now be removed and the skin finally cleansed. The operator, having ascertained that the patient is fully under the anaesthetic, and having steadied the tissues of the abdominal wall with his left hand, makes a clean cut with the knife held in his right hand. The usual incision is a median vertical one, and it is usually made between the umbilicus and the symphysis pubis. The first cut should go through the skin and subcutaneous tissue down to the aponeurosis. As there is much difference in the amount of fat in the anterior abdominal wall, an attempt should be made to gauge it beforehand by picking up a fold of the parietes between the fingers and thumb. Any bleeding points should be accurately caught up by catch forceps, which can be left on for a little time. Keeping carefully to the middle line the operator cuts through the recti muscles in their sheaths; no time need be wasted trying to find the linea alba, but if the tissues of the abdominal wall be much stretched it will be possible to make the incision between the recti and without opening their sheaths ; the handle of the knife may be used to separate the fibres of the recti muscles. The transversalis fascia is now reached and must be divided, as must also the subperitoneal or (better) preperitoneal fat behind it; folds of the fat should be picked up with the dissecting forceps and cut through so as to avoid premature division of the peri- toneum itself, and it is important not to mistake the fascia for peritoneum and the fat for omentum. Having cut through the above- named structures, the operator must be pre- pared to find the peritoneum; he and his assistant should pick up a fold of the membrane