LABOUR, MANAGEMENT OF 228 He proposed fuither that it should be called an obstetric satchel, and that name reserved for any form of metal steriliser contained within a washable or leather cover; the words "mid- wifery bag" might be given to an ordinary bag of leather closing with a lock or clasp. Ballantyne still further reduced the size of his satchel, and had it made of aluminium for the sake of lightness (Trans. Edin. Obstet. Soc, xxix. p. 194, 1904; xxx. p. 173, 1905). He thought it was to be preferred to the appliances suggested by Veit {Zentralb. f. Gyndk., xvi. p. 440, 1892), by von Yl&vW {ibid., xix. p. 1033, 1895), by Fehling {ibid., xix. p. 1062, 1895), by Albers-Schonberg {ibid., xix. p. 1361, 1895), and by de Seigneux {ibid., xxvii. p. 1240, 1903). Certainly there seems to be a growing practice in the profession of sterilising instru- ments and the like before attending upon a confinement case, of taking the armamen- tarium wrapped up in clean towels to the patient's house in a steriliser of some sort, and of re-sterilising at the case such implements {e.g. forceps) as may be required. It is more than likely that modifications in the construc- tion and mode of preparation ("guarding") of the labour bed in private as well as in hospital practice will be introduced. In the maternity hospital the labour bed is now practically an operating-table in the later stages of the con- finement ; but in ordinary practice the obste- trician delivers his patient on her own bed prepared in various ways (with mackintosh sheeting, wood-wool pads, draw sheet, etc.) for the event. The labour bed (Gebarbett), which has been introduced by Miklaschewsky {Zen- tralb. f. Gyndk., xxxi. p. 504, 1907), can, it is true, be easily converted into an operating- table ; it makes the thorough cleansing and irrigation of the genital organs much easier ; it allows the patient to be quickly put into Walcher's position or into Trendelenburg's; and it lessens the number of assistants necessary in complicated and instrumental cases. Never- theless, labour beds of this type can hardly be looked for in private practice, and the general practitioner will have to content himself with the ordinary bed, protected as far as possible by means of waterproof sheeting and kept clean with antiseptic pads and sterilised towels. Wooden blocks, with small depressions in their upper surfaces, may be used for raising the lower or upper end of the bed as circumstances may demand. Another question in connection with the management of labour which has arisen during the past few years is the protection of the hands of the obstetrician with rubber gloves and of his face with a mask. Many articles dealing with this matter have appeared, among which may be named Schumacher's paper {Arch. /. Gynaek,, Ixviii. p. 399, 1903) and Maguire's {Detroit Med. Journ., iv. p. 198, 1904-5), as well as numerous short references in the Zentralblatt fur Gyndkologie {e.g. xxxi. pp. 12, 251, 757, 872, 885, 1302, etc.). It may at once be stated that the face mask is not in use for ordinary confinements, and is not likely to be employed save for Csesarean sections and the like. With regard to rubber gloves, there is a considerable difterence of opinion, and, of course, circum- stances alter cases. Certainly, if a medical practitioner be called to a midwifery case after dealing with any septic wound or any condition suspected to be septic, he will be well advised to wear rubber gloves which have been freshly sterilised; if, in addition, he find it necessary to pass a hand into the cavity of the uterus during the confinement, the putting on of the gloves will be clearly indicated (Wormser, Deutsche med. Wochensch., xxx. p. 1645, 1904). At the same time, he will not be released fi'om the necessity of cleansing his hands as thoroughly as he would have done if he had not been about to employ gloves. It must ever be borne in mind that rubber gloves do not replace hand- washing and disinfection ; they are an additional safeguard, not an alternative measure of pre- caution. It will probably be found from ex- perience that if a medical man is careful to put on gloves in dealing with doubtful cases in his general practice, he may with safety use his bare hands in his midwifery work ; he will find it easier to proceed in this way rather than attempt to work in gloves in all his confinement cases, many of them extending in time over some hours and necessitating frequent sterilising of the gloves. But, if he have on occasion to remove the placenta manually or to make any such intra-uterine manipulation, he may for additional security put on the rubber glove. There is one disadvantage in so doing, the diffi- culty which exists in grasping the leg of the child in version, and in removing pieces of retained or adherent membrane, and Munro Kerr {Operative Midwifery, p. 310, 1908) has had under such circumstances to remove the gloves before he could accomplish his purpose. There is, however, another standpoint from which this question may be looked at: if the medical man know or suspect that his parturient patient is suffering from sepsis, gonorrhoea, or syphilis, he will find it necessary to protect himself and his other patients by covering his hands during any manipulations which may become necessary. To sum up: the medical man ought to carry a pair of rubber gloves in his obstetric satchel for use in exceptional cases and under special circumstances. The question of prophylactic vaginal doucliing in ordinary midwifery practice remains very much where it was when the fifth volume of the Encycl. OAid Diet, of Med. was published. See V., p. 191. Eoutine douching before, during, or after labour is probably not practised anywhere now ; but vaginal douching with lysol or with