217 JAUNDICE and slight lymphocytosis in another (aged 7). In three cases the serum was strongly tinged with demonstrable bile pigment." In the cases reported by Hutchison and Panton similar changes were found, with, in addition, the presence of a few neutrophile myelocytes. In the series of cases described by Buchan and Comrie under the name "congenital anaemia with jaundice and enlargement of the spleen " the blood changes were more profound, nucle- ated reds, abnormal mitoses, and a fair pro- portion of myelocytes being present. Though the disease is perhaps best described us "family acholuric jaundice," isolated cases, without hereditary antecedents, and cases associated with bile pigment in the urine have been reported. In a very remarkable series of cases placed on record by Buchan and Comrie, which apparently come into this category, four successive infants in one family were affected. The first-born child (male) was in all respects normal. The second (male) was jaundiced at birth, developed splenic enlargement and marked changes in the blood within the ^st few weeks, and then made an absolute recovery b}'^ the time he was nine months old. The third child (female) had jaundice, splenic en- largement, and anaemia from birth, and died when two days old. The fourth child (female) also suffered from jaundice and anaemia, and died when a week old. The leading features of Buchan and Comrie's cases were—(1) Pro- found anaemia. (2) Active haemopoiesis leading to the appearance in the blood of large numbers of premature or foetal types of cell. The active haemopoiesis was taking place in the bone marrow, and also to an abnormally marked degree in the liver. (3) Destruction of the red cells was going on, as was evidenced by the presence of phagocytes containing blood pigment in the spleen, and phagocytes en- gulfing red cells in the circulating blood. (4) Obstructive jaundice was present, as evidenced by distension of the biliary canaliculi. There are two main hypotheses as to the nature of acholuric jaundice with anaemia. (1) On the one hand the jaundice may be primary, due perhaps to defective development of the larger biliary passages, with consequent ab- sorption of the bile by the hepatic lymphatics, and splenic enlargement and blood changes secondary to the cholaemia so produced. (2) On the other hand the anaemia may be the cause of the jaundice. In this event we have a primary haemolysis, producing anaemia, and causing hairaolytic jaundice. The second hypo- thesis is that which has most in its favour. There is no proof that the serum in these cases is endowed with abnormal haemolytic power, but there is some evidence that the red cor- puscles are abnormally fragile. Both Hawkins and Dudgeon, and Hutchison and Panton found that lysis of the cells occurred in a solution of sodium chloride up to '6 per cent., whereas normal corpuscles are not lysed except by solutions weaker than --t per cent. Hawkins and Dudireon also found that the serum of their cases contained haemagglutinms. As regards the treatment of the condition, the only point worth noting is that, unlike pernicious anaemia and splenic anaemia, it shows no improvement under arsenic. LITERATURE.—Several of the following papers contain fairly complete bibliographies :—Hawkins and Dudgeon, Quarterly Journ. of Med., Jan. 1909.— HnxcHisoN and Panton, Jbid., July 1909.—Buchan and .MacGibbon, Scott. Med. and Surg. Journ., Sept. 1906.—Buchan and Comrie, Journ. Path, and Bact., xiii. p. 398, 1909.—Benjamin and Sluka, Berl. klin. Wochensch., 26th Aug. 1907.—Glaus and Kalbeelah, Ibid., 12th Nov. 1906.—Strauss, Ibid., luth Dec. 1906. JeCOVOl.—A proprietary preparation de- scribed as an egg emulsion of cod-liver oil, with glycerophosphates of calcium, sodium, and iron. According to the British Medical Journal analysis, the preparation contains practically 50 per cent, of oil (see Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1910, p. 209). Jeddah Ulcer, — A synonym of "oriental sore" or "Aleppo boil"; it has recently been named " Leishmaniose cutanee " by the French writers. Jenner's Stain.—A polychrome methy- lene-blue-eosin stain. :See Blood {Examination of Stained Films). Jensen's Tumour.—^See Cancer. "Joint-Mouse."—A foreign body in a joint, e.g. the knee ; it may be a detached piece of bone or a loose cartilage. Joiles's Ferrometer.—A colorimeter showing the amount of iron in the blood. See Webster, Diagnostic Methods, p. 425, 1909. Jousset's Fluid.—«S'e« Inoscopy. Justus Test.—The fact that the injec- tion or inunction of mercurial preparation causes a reduction in the percentage of hajmoglobin (10 to 20 per cent.) in persons suffering from syphilis: this lasts for a few hours or days ; it is not, however, an absolutely I'eliable test. JuviS.—A proprietary food preparation described as being made solely from beef with vegetable properties added. For report and analysis, see Lancet, ii. for 1908, p. 803. Kahier'S Disease.—Myelopathic Al- bumosuria. See Multiple Myeloma.