344 SPINAL CORD, SURGERY OF lesions, and it does not radiate so widely as in root lesions. Surgical Intervention. — Notwithstanding Miiller's opinion that the prognosis from surgical intervention on the sacrum and lumbar vertebrse is better than on the other vertebrae and cranium, the results of operation for tumour of the Cauda are not good. Six cases have died after operation, and in five there has been some' benefit. The tumours are usually such as to make complete removal impossible—the well- defined fibromata, or fibrosarcomata, occurring at higher levels in the cord are rare in the caudal region. They are usually infiltrating sarcomata. It may, however, be possible to relieve pain by dividing posterior roots. The whole question of the surgical treatment of tumours of the spinal cord and cauda equina is very fully discussed by Sturzberg in a critical review in the Centralblatt f. d. Greuzgebiete d. Medizin u. Chirurgie, 1908, Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7. According to his very complete statistical survey, the best prospect is afforded by tumours in the dorsal region, 46 per cent, of which were cured, or permanently improved by operation. In the case of tumours of the cervical region only 36 per cent, come into the above category, and in the case of lumbar, sacral, and caudal tumours only 16 per cent. The operative treatment of tumour is most dangerous in the cervical region (40 per cent, of deaths), next ■comes the dorsal region with a mortality of 26"4 ; last, the lumbar region and below with 16 per cent. The general conclusions arrived at are :—(1) Operation does good in about half of all cases, and produces permanent cure, or permanent improvement, in about one-third. The mortality is about 30 per cent. (2) Neglect to operate in the presence of a certain or highly probable tumour, which is not definitely recog- nisable as malignant, is a serious failure of duty. (3) AVhen the diagnosis is doubtful, an explora- tory laminectomy should be performed if there is any possibility of the existence of an operable tumour. Resection of Posterior Roots for tlie Relief of Spasticity (Spiller and Frazier, Univ. of Penn- sylvania Medical Bulletin, Jan. 1910).—Hy cutting the posterior roots an artificial tabes is produced—hypotonia, ataxia, loss of tendon reflexes, and shooting pains result. Most of these symptoms, particularly the pains, are temporaiy. The hypotonicity depends on the number of roots divided. The operation is permissible in almost every case where spasticity is great and motor weakness slight, provided the condition of the patient justifies it, whether the lesion be spinal or cerebral, unilateral or bilateral. It is useless where motor palsy is great. A case is recorded in which the opera- tion was extremely beneficial. The voluntary power was about normal, but spasticity was extreme. The legs could not be separated. walking was impossible without the aid of sticks, as the patient stood his heels did not touch the ground on account of the spasticity of the calf muscles, the patellar tendon reflex was so exaggerated that a tap on the tendon threw the leg into closure. After the operation he could walk much better, could separate the thighs normally, could put his feet flat on the ground, and could go upstairs alone. The operation was performed under spinal (stovaine) ana3sthesia by Dr. Frazier, the second, third, and fifth lumbar sensory roots being divided. Among technical details of the operation, stress is laid on the necessity for lowering the head and shoulders below the level of the pelvis to reduce the escape of cerebro-spinal fluid and to minimise haemorrhage from the plexus of dural veins. For identifying the roots Forster's plan is simple and practical. Before the spinous processes are removed a pin or suture is introduced into the skin to one side of the incision on a level with the spinous process of the fifth lumbar vertebra. This corresponds to the level at which the first sacral nerve leaves the dural sac. Resection has also been undertaken for the relief of the crises of tabes [Fliirclien, Miinch. med. Woch., 5th July 1910); the results are said to be good. Chronic Spinal Meningitis—Circurti scribed Serous-spinal Meningitis.—The credit of having emphasised the importance of a form of chronic meningitis of obscure origin is due to Sir Victor Horsley in this country (Prit. Med. Journ., 1909, i. p. 513) and Dr. Spiller in America {Amer. Journ. Med. Sciences, Jan. 1909). The condi- tion had previously been described by Spiller, Krause, Oppenlieim, and others, but the point of practical importance which Horsley moie especially brings out is that they are extremely amenable to operative treatment. Horsley has operated on twenty-one cases of the disease, in most cases with very marked benefit. Chronic spinal meningitis gives rise to symptoms re- sembling those of tumour of the cord. An adult (the disease is very rare before puberty) begins to complain of pain and progressive loss of power in the legs, and perhaps also a slight degree of kyphosis; he ultimately develops a progressive paraplegia, which runs the ordinary course and terminates fatally. Horsley has only had an opportunity of ex- amining two cords, one of a patient who was not operated on, and one of a patient who had undergone laminectomy and died six weeks later of a cardiac lesion. In both a meningo- gliosis was found. The spinal cord was con- tracted, and exhibited typical glial sclerosis. All the cases Horsley has seen have been sent to him with the diagnosis of tumour of the spinal cord, or disease of the vertebra;, but there are certain features which should lead to their being recognised as chronic meningitis and not tumour. In the first place, contrary