380 TUBEROSE SCLEROSIS retrogressive changes and gliosis. The develop- mental origin of renal tumour in childhood is also generally admitted. Adenoma sebaceum is also regarded by Crocker as a maldevelop- ment of the glandular structures of the skin. Two types of adenoma sebaceum are recognised : one affecting chiefly the face, and consisting of .small nodules symmetrically distributed, chiefly on the cheeks; the other, affecting the skin of the head and back as well as the face, in which the nodules are much larger, and are asym- metrically distributed. Adenoma sebaceum has been recognised by dermatologists as being most frequent in mentally defective children ; it is common among the inmates of institutions for the care of imbeciles. Clinical Features.—Like so many other imbeciles, children with tuberose sclerosis often have a bad heredity. The degree of mental defect is usually considerable; some cases are merely vegetative idiots; others have intelli- gence enough to benefit from ordinary element- ary education. What is more characteristic than the grade of mental defect is the fact that it is progressive. In many cases the intelligence appears to have developed fairly noi'mally for the first year or so, until the first convulsions occurred. With the onset of epilepsy deterioration sets in, and with the progress of the disease the patient may sink into dementia. The epilepsy is not specially characteristic. At first the convulsions tend to remain limited to the head and eyes, but ultimately they become general. Minor epi- lepsy usually accompanies the major seizures. The fits tend to occur in small series of three or four at a time at intervals of a week or a fortnight. Many patients succumb in a status epilepticios. Some patients ultimately develop spastic paralysis and become bedridden. In a few cases epilepsy does not supervene ; there is merely mental defect. Diagnosis. — The possibility of tuberose sclerosis has to be considered in all cases of epileptic imbecility, and search should be made for any sign of tumour of the kidneys or other viscera. Adenoma sebaceum is highly sug- gestive of the existence of tuberose sclerosis, if not, indeed, pathognomonic. Few of the patients survive to adult life ; many die about puberty. Death may result directly from the renal tumours, or from epilepsy. Most cases in which there is a lesion of the heart appear to die in infancy, sometimes before convulsions or symptoms of mental defect have occurred. LITERATURE.—References to the older literature will be found in most of the following recent papers : — VoGT, Miinch. med. Wochensch., 29th Sept. 1908 ; Zcitsch. f. d. Erforschuny u. Behandlunr/ des jtigendlichen Schvach- siniis, Bd. ii. Heft 1, 1908 ; Monatssch. f. Psijchiatrie v. Neurologic, Bd. xxiv. p. 106, 1908.—Jacobaeus, Nord. rued. Archil'., Abt. ii. Nr. 2, 1903.—Sailer, Journ. Mental and Nervous Diseases, p. 402, 1898. — Markuse, Nevrol. Zentralb., 2, p. 104, 1909.—Volland, Zeitsch. f. d. Erforschung u. Behandlung d. jugendlichen Schwach- sinns, Bd. iii. Heft 3, 1909.—Fowler and Dickson, Quart. Journ. Med., Oct., 1910. Tumenol.—A substance (an artificial ichthyol) got from the action of sulphur and sulphuric acid on mineral oils; it is used in eczema and lupus as a 2 per cent, dusting powder. TurbinectOmy.—Excision (partial or total) of the inferior and middle turbinates of the nose, as recommended by Moure, Berbineau, Lack, and others in obstinate cases of hay fever and paroxysmal sneezing, etc. Turk's Sta.in.—An iodine solution in potassium iodide of the strength of 1:300; it is used for the staining of polymorphonuclear basophilic leucocytes. See Webster, Diagnostic Methods, p. 480, 1909. Tussol.—A remedy lauded for its action in whooping-cough ; it is the mandelic acid salt of antipyrin (antipyrin amygdalate) and prob- ably owes its action to antipyrin; it is a soluble white powder, incompatible with milk and alkaline mixtures; the dose is from 1 to 8 grains, and for infants from i to f grain. See Fortescue-Brickdale, Newer Remedies, p. ■335, 1910. Tylmarin.—A cinnamic acid derivative, being acetyl-coumaric acid, recommended in 5 grain doses for phthisis. Typhoid Fever.—The conception of typhoid fever in vogue a few years ago, namely, that of a disease due to an intestinal infection by a specific organism, which proliferates in the bowel, whence it invades the body through the intestinal wall, causing a general infection, has undergone considerable modification recently. In the first place, typhoid fever must now be regarded as a primary bacterial infection of the blood with secondary involvement of the intes- tine, and, in the second place, it has to be admitted that the clinical group of symptoms known collectively as typhoid is not always due to the Eberth bacillus. 1. Typhoid a Bacill.emia.—The bacillus of typhoid is constantly present in the blood from the onset of an attack of typhoid fever. Cole- man and Buxton ^ found that out of a total of 1602 cases examined 75 percent, showed bacilli in the blood. A positive result is most con- stantly obtained towards the beginning of the disease—during the first week in 89 per cent.; during the second, 73 per cent. ; during the third, 60 per cent.; during the fourth, only 38 per cent., of those examined. So many observers have found the organism in approximately 100 per cent, of their cases, that probably the failure of the minority to detect them is due to faulty