44 ARTERIAL HYPERTONUS incidental. The renal vessels are peculiar. In the artery outside the kidney the above changes are found; in the intra-renal arteries there is atrophy of the muscular coat, and very marked hypertrophy of intima and adventitia, culmi- nating in occlusion of the vessels and their transformation into fibrous cords. The term arteriosclerosis, then, is applied to all cases of vascular thickening other than atheroma, in- cluding (a) pure hypermyotrophy, (b) hyper- myotrophy with thickening of the internal coat, and (c) with the adventitia also thickened. The two important points which Russell has elucidated are—(1) that there exists a perman- ent diffuse thickening of the arteries which is not atheroma; and (2) that sclerosed vessels retain their contractility (hypertonus). The reasons for the first proposition have been stated; evidence of the cori'cctness of the second is afforded by clinical observations that under appropriate treatment tightened up arteries can be made to relax. While sclerosis is irremedi- able, hypertonus is not; the vascular thicken- ing of arterio-sclerosis is therefore not wholly beyond the reach of treatment. Hypertonus may be produced by vaso-motor influence; a much moi'e important factor, how- ever, is the composition and condition of the blood. Nitrogenous waste, and the products of imperfect metabolism circulating in the blood, cause a contraction of the arteries and capil- laries, and this is the first step in the chain of events which lead to increased blood-pressure and arterio-sclerosis. The action of the deleteri- ous substances (the exact nature of which is un- known) is conceived of as a direct one on the vessels, not an indirect effect brought about through the agency of the nervous system. It has a twofold protective action on the tissues: (a) in diminishing the supply to them of the impure blood, and (b) in producing symptoms which lead to blood purification. Effect of Arterial Hypertonus on Mano- METRic Readings and on Blood-Pressure.— Russell is very definitely of opinion that the high readings in arterio-sclerosis do not repre- sent the actual blood-pressure, hut are caused by the resistance which the thickened vessel Avail offers to the compression of the armlet. Expei'imenting with a .system of rubber tubes of various diameters and thickness of wall con- nected with a series of manometers, he got results of which the following is an example :— The internal pressure of the system being 30 mm. Hg by the manometers, the pressure (as measured by Oliver's haemodynamometer) required to obliterate the lumen of the tubes was 10 mm. Hg in the case of the thinnest (A), 40 mm. Hg in the medium one (B), and 84 mm. Hg in the thickest one (C). The walls of tube A were so flaccid that they were only kept apart by the internal pressure, and this internal pressure Avas overcome by a lateral pressure of 10 mm. Hg, hence in B the resistance of the walls must have been 30 mm. Hg (40 - 10), and in C, 74 mm. Hg (84 - 10). Deleterious matters ("muscular excitants") being present in the blood, they cause a tighten- ing up of the arterioles and arteries, at least vessels up to the size of the brachial. The aortic blood-pressure is raised in consequence. It is not, however, raised in the constricted arteries themselves. Less blood flows through them, and less reaches the capillaries. The curi'ent idea is that in a constricted area the blood-pressure rises and increases the circula- tion through it. This doctrine has received support from the belief that the hsemomano- meter with its high readings in such cases records the blood - pressure pure and simple. Sclerosed vessels are more liable to hypertonus than normal ones. Hypertonus disappears when deleterious substances disappear ; prolonged hypertonus leads to permanent thickening of the arterial wall. In addition to the above, the grounds upon which Russell denies that the haemomanometer affords a true index of blood-pressure when the vessels are thickened are as follows :— 1. He accepts the physiological teaching that the normal brachial blood-pressure in man is somewhere about 100-120 mm. Hg; it rises after violent exercise to about 140 mm. Hg, and this difference of 20 mm. represents more or less the reserve power of the heart. How is it possible then to reconcile with this a doctrine that in disease the heart is capable of exerting pressure equal to 200 or 250 mm. Hg? 2. In clinical work, in cases of interstitial nephiitis, for instance, very high manometric readings occur. These may go on rising until just before death, when the heart is obviously failing; on the other hand, they may be reduced by measures Avhich diminish hyper- tonus, and the softening of the • artery which goes along with the falling pressure can be detected by the finger. Such high pressures as 300 mm. Hg in the last stage of Bright's disease simply mean that the vessels are grow- ing steadily thicker and their lumens smaller. 3. In the interpretation of manometric read- ings it must be remembered that the condition of the brachial artery may differ from that of the radial. With a thickened brachial and a soft radial a reading of 200 mm. Hg may be obtained. Occasionally the removal of hyper- tonus raises the reading from 110 to 120 mm. Hg ; the explanation given is that the relief to the heart allows it to ])eat Avith greater vigour. Cause of Hypertonus.—The chief cause of hypertonus is the absorption from the boAvel of the results of impeiiect digestion or stagnation of the intestinal contents ; excessive (especially proteid) food, improper food, and alcohol also conduce to it. Russell also recognises the