CANCER 87 In C. E. Green's recently published book, The Cancer Problem (Edinburgh, 1911), there is described a theory regarding the origin of cancer which is worthy of careful consideration. The author divides his work up into three parts. The first is concerned with parasitic tumours as they occur in the vegetable kingdom, especially with that disease which occurs in turnips, and is known as " Plasmodiophoi-a brassicm," or " finger- and-toe disease." There is a most suggestive chapter on the local incidence, and the other portion of the work is concerned with a care- ful analysis of the statistical retui'ns of the mortality from cancer in various trades and professions, and an investigation of the factors possessed in common by these where the cancer mortality is high. Although at fii'st it might appear that thei'e was little in common l^etween the various occupations having a high mortality from cancer. Green shows that they have this one factor in common, that they are occupa- tions where imperfect oxygenation of the tissues takes place. The point of his argument is that a fungoid organism cannot grow in a freely oxidised medium, and sulphuric and sulphurous acid are powerful de-oxidising agents. In the case of Plasmodiophora brassicce, it is fouud that it is a disease that is started and fostered l)y manures which have been dissolved in sulphur- ous acid In the case of those trades and pro- fessions in which the cancer mortality is high. Green has been able to show also that in many of them there is exposure to sulpho acids. Doyen described an organism which he called the micrococcus neoformans, and which he claimed to be the causal parasite in the produc- tion of carcinoma. The organism can un- doubtedly be found in many new growths, but it is looked upon by all pathologists as a mere casual concomitant. Wright, however, has pub- lished an account of a case of inoperable cancer of the larynx treated by him by the subcutaneous injection of a vaccine prepared from the micrococcus neoformans. The treat- ment is claimed to have produced some l5ene- ficial results; the patient, however, ultimately died of the malignant growth. Cancer following Exposure to Rontgen Rays.—It is unfortunately now only too clearly proved that prolonged exposure to X-rays may, under certain circumstances, lead to the develop- ment of cancel'. There are now on record a numlDer of cases where this has occurred, and ultimately proved fatal. Porter and White have collected eleven cases of an undoubted X-ray cancer, and six of these proved fatal. In the case which Porter had the care of himself, he found this interesting result, that where he skin-grafted for the intractalale ulceration which precedes the epitheliomatous change, the majority of the grafts adhered, they never broke down afterwards, and epitheliomata did not develop in them. He recommended accord- ingly that early excision be practised in cases of persistent X-ray ulceration, to avoid the development of malignant charactei'istics in them. Now that certain of the properties of X-rays are more clearly understood, the risk of the occurrence of this disaster are not great. It is recognised that it was especially in those who were exposed to the douljle irritant of the X-rays and the chemicals used in afterwards developing the plates that cancer occurred. As a contriljution to the etiology of cancer, Lazarus Barlow has carried out a line of in- vestigation starting from the assumption that workers exposed to X-rays are liable to become affected with true squamous-celled carcinoma. He examined electrically and photographically a variety of substances which are commonly looked upon as predisposing to cancer by the irritation their presence produces. He en- deavoured to find out whether these irritants shared with the X-rays any factor in common. He found such substances as paraffin, soot, gall-stone, clay pipes, etc., did not fall exactly under the category of recognised radio-active substances. It was not common radio-activity which was responsible for their share of the accusation of predisposing under certain cir- cumstances to the production of cancer. As has already been said, no treatment has so far been discovered to replace the surgeon's knife, where the use of such is practicable. Every yeai' witnesses the arrival of a new method of treating cancer. The popularity of these usually A^aries directly with the extent to which they are advertised in the lay press. The pancreatic ferment, as originally suggested by Beard and Mackenzie, is still l^eing used occasionally to treat cases of inoperal^le cancer. The results obtained do not warrant the assumption that this form of treatment is ever likely to be widely adopted. It is a treatment which is based on the assumption that cancei'ons growths arise from a wandering germ cell which has settled in some situation other than the germinal ridge. After having lain dormant for a varying period, it is excited to active division by any of the irritants which ai'e generally recognised as predisposing to the production of cancer. By its gi'owth it gives rise to a tumour which, although simulating in struc- ture the tissue in which it is developed, is really, according to Beard, of the nature of aberrant tropholilast. The normal trophoblast is recognised to behave at first in the manner in which it invades the-maternal tissue very like a cancer. Very soon comes a period, how- ever, when this active invasion ceases. Accord- ing to Beard, this stage of arrest of the active invasion by the trophoblast is coincident with the appearance of the pancreas as a functionat- ing gland. He thus considers that the scientific method of treating a malignant growth, a struc- ture which, as has l)een said, consists of nothing