215 IONIC MEDICATION IN GYNECOLOGY In this phenomenon there is a further "transfer of the ions of the applied solution or soluble electrode from one pole in the direction of the other, of zinc or copper, as the case may be, from the + pole, and of iodine, sulphuric acid, or salicylic acid, as the case may be, from the — pole." A solution of cupric chloride is placed on one side of a mucous membrane (e.g. that of the vagina or uterus), whilst on the other side is the chloride of sodium of the tissues ; an electric current is now passed, with the result that there is an actual trans- ference of ions. The result can be expressed by means of Dr. Sloan's diagram, the copper being applied at the + pole— Mucous membrane. + + + Cu Cu Cu + + + + + Na Na Na Na Na CI CI CI CI CI CI CI CI Before current. Mucous membrane. + + Cu + + + Cu Cu Na Na Na Na Na CI CI CI CI CI CI CI CI After current. This ionic medication has been employed in cases of chronic cervicitis with very good results; "the discharge, from having been muco-purulent and copious, has become milky and of small amount, whilst the gaping os has become normal in size, with the everted mucous membrane drawn in, and erosions have rapidly healed. Improvement in the general health has followed the amelioration of the local septic condition. In a case of membranous dysmenorrhoea the amount of membrane has gradually decreased until none has been found. In uterine haemorrhage and in bacteruria ionic medication has proved beneficial." A glass speculum is used and a 1 per cent, solution of cupric chloi"ide ; the cervical and intra-uterine electrodes (spirals of copper wire) are inserted through the speculum, the neutral electrode (a large clay one) being applied to the hypo- gastrium or sacral region, or preferably to the hands (no rings being worn). A special vulvo- vaginal electrode has been contrived by Sloan and described by him in the present year {Froc. Roy. Soc. Med., May 1909) ; it allows the physician to apply at one and the same time the ionic solution to the whole of the genital surface from the vulva to the orifices of the Fallopian tubes. The current is got from a battery of from fifteen to twenty Leclanche cells of good size; a rheostat is needed to regulate the current and a galvanometer to register the quantity used. An average dose is 15 ma. for 15 or 20 minutes. In subacute cases Sloan prefers to begin with iodine instead of copper as the ionic agent; then the negative pole is made the active one and the electrode is of carbon ; and the solution is a 2 per cent, one of iodide of potassium, combined with "2 per cent, solution of liquor iodi. In some of Dr. Sloan's earlier cases considerable pain, and, in some cases, some pelvic cellulitis followed the ionic medication; but he thinks these results can be, with care, eliminated. It will be interesting to find whether this novel plan of treatment helps the gynecologist to over- come the exceedingly troublesome cases of chronic cervicitis and endometritis of a septic nature for which it has been proposed. lonisation in Skin Diseases.— The treatment of skin diseases by electrolysis with zinc and other metals is quite a recent one. Leduc was the first to try it, in 1903, and since then Lewis Jones and others have worked at the subject. For the treatment are required an ordinary continuous current battery with a galvanometer, connecting wires, a flat pad on the negative pole, and a zinc electrode at the positive pole. The zinc is covered with several layers of lint, and is dipped in a 2 per cent, solution of zinc sulphate in distilled water. The negative pole, with the pad electrode, is applied to any convenient part of the patient, and the zinc electrode, moistened with the zinc sulphate solution, is placed on the diseased area, and a current of from 5 to 10 milliamperes allowed to pass for about 10 minutes. In a solution of zinc sulphate (ZnS04) the salt is partly divided up into zinc atoms, which carry a positive charge of electricity, and SO4 atoms, which carry a negative charge of electricity. When the current is passed, the zinc ions move from the positive towards the negative pole, and the SO4 ions in the opposite direction. Therefore, when the current is turned on, the zinc ions immediately start to move towards the negative pole, and are thus carried into the tissues and deposited there. The difference between this method of introducing a drug and the hypodermic injection is that by electrolysis the zinc is introduced into the actual lymph- spaces and protoplasm of the cells. KoDENT Ulcer.—Rodent ulcer is the disease in which the best results have been obtained by this method. After one application a small rodent disappears in about three weeks. If any disease is left, the treatment may be repeated in a month. Rodents of considerable size have been reported as cured by this method. The great disadvantage of the method is the pain, which is very considerable, and although the application of cocaine is said to prevent that, unfortunately it does not always do so. Various drugs may be applied similarly to the zinc sulphate. It must be remembered that the correct electrode must be used with