TUBERCULOSIS 37& culosis. In the whole series of 84 patients there were 21 cases of primary abdominal tuberculosis, of which 7 gave the human bacillus. Weber's results, therefore, are quite comparable to those of the Royal Commission, and they are rendered if anything more Aveighty by the fact that abdominal tuber- culosis is less common in Germany than in England (vide infra). Raw holds an extreme, and in some respects isolated position on this subject. According to his theory, bovine and human tuberculosis are essentially different infections. He points out (1) that in pulmonary tuberculosis the disease is nearly always strictly confined to the lungs, with, in a fair percentage of cases, secondary ulcers of the intestine, but seldom any other tuberculous lesion. Phthisis is essentially a disease of adult life. (2) Tuber- culous joints, enlarged glands, spinal disease, and abdominal tuberculosis are essentially affections of infancy and childhood ; moreover, it is rare for such patients to develop true phthisis pulmonalis. Raw believes that true primary pulmonary tuberculosis arises from the inhalation of tuberculous matter; other forms are probably caused by ingestion of bacilli. His main contentions are :—(1) Tubercle bacilli of the human type produce pulmonary tuber- culosis, tubercular ulcers of the bowel, and tuberculous abdominal glands. (2) Bovine bacilli produce mesenteric tuberculosis, tuber- culous peritonitis, acute miliary tuberculosis, tubercle of bones and joints, tuberculous meningitis, and probably lupus. (3) The two forms are antagonistic, and a mild attack of bovine tuberculosis protects against pulmonary phthisis. (4) Human tuberculin has a curative effect on bovine tuberculous infection ; bovine tuberculin has a curative effect on the pul- monary form of the disease. Raw's theory is based on clinical observation ; he regards the nature of the infection—alimentary or inhala- tion, as practically synonymous with its source —bovine or human. One difficulty in the way of accepting Raw's theory as it stands is the lack of evidence that bone and meningeal tuberculosis are due to ingestion of bacilli. Weber, whose results have been quoted, ex- amined 27 cases of tuberculosis of bones and joints, and 48 cases of tuberculous meningitis and phthisis, and found that only one of the former, and none of the latter, were due to the bovine bacillus. Behring's theory of tuberculous infection, though it has no direct bearing on the I'elative frequency of bovine and human tuberculosis, must also be referred to, because if carried to its logical conclusion it stands directly opposed to Koch's views. Behring believes that tuber- culosis is invariably acquired in infancy. Phthisis in the adult is simply the last episode in a life-long infection—" the concluding verse of the infant's cradle song." This is really the essence of Behring's theory. The infant becomes tuberculous by ingesting bacilli; these may be bovine, as when the milk of infected cattle is used; they may also be derived from human beings, from dust, dried sputum, in- fected rooms, etc., but in any case they gain entry to the mouth in the first instance, and are swallowed along with the food. The need for accepting the latter possibility as well as the former is shown by the occurrence of tuber- culosis in infants reared on the breast or on sterilised milk. The deduction Behring draws is that all efforts to eradicate tuberculosis must be primarily directed towards shielding children from infection, both by securing tubercle-free milk, and by keeping them awaj' from infected adults and houses. Direct infection of adults he regards as relatively infrequent, and looks on the exaltation of systematic disinfection of sputum as tending to divert the attention of the public from the real source of danger. Behring's theory is not very widely held. It is referred to here chiefly because it brings into prominence one aspect of the tuberculosis problem which has attracted renewed attention of late years, viz., the frequency and importance of tuberculous infection in infants and children. Without depreciating the importance of sys- tematic disinfection of the sputum, it must be stated that in view of the enormous suscepti- bility of infants to tuberculosis they have very special claims to consideration in the campaign against tuberculosis. Holt goes so far as to say that when an infant or young child suffers from chronic cough and is known to have been exposed to a " house infection" it must be regarded as presumably tuberculous. He regards pulmonary tuberculosis as common in infants, and as probably due to infection from a case of phthisis (45 per cent, of cases in his own observation). As has been said, there is little or no bac- teriological evidence that ordinary pulmonary phthisis is ever due to the bovine bacillus, and there is a fair amount of evidence that primary abdominal tuberculosis is often due to the bovine bacillus. While bacteriological investi- gation is the only way of proving definitely to which virus a case is due, the fact that bovine bacilli are most likely to give rise to an alimen- tary infection, leads up to the question of the relative frequency of primary abdominal tuberculosis. Alimentary Infection.—At the 1908 Con- gress there was a general consensus of opinion that tuberculosis could be acquired either by ingestion or inhalation. In his article on Tuberculosis in the Encyclopedia and Dic- tionary of Medicine (Vol. X. p. 137), Dr. Shennan gives 27 per cent, as the proportion of cases of alimentary infection in post-mortems on children in Edinburgh up to 1901 ; at the