IMMUNITY 194 certain. They are of two main types: the opsonins of normal serums, and the opsonins of immune serums, which differ from those of normal serums in withstanding heat, and in being specific. The latter, therefore, may be regarded as true antibodies, comparable to agglutinins. By comparing the number of bacteria in- gested in (a) a mixture of normal corpuscles, bacterial suspension, and normal serum, and (6) 7iormal corpuscles, bacterial suspension, and the serum of a patient suffering from a bacterial disease, a ratio, called the Opsonic Index, is obtained. In cases of localised infection with staphylococcus aureus—e.g. sycosis, boils, etc. —Wright invariably found this ratio lo\ver than normal—from '1 to "87, 1"0 being normal. The inoculation of such patients with a vaccine of dead staphylococci is followed, first, by a temporary fall in the index ("negative phase"), and then by a more prolonged rise ("positive phase") to, or above, normal. Coincidentally with the rise in the opsonic index there is a great amelioration of the lesion due to the bacterial invasion. In connection with the subject of bacterial invasion, Wiight lays great stress on what he terms the bacteriotropic pressure, i.e. the mass effect exerted on the invading bacteria by the protective substance contained in the body fluids. This does not stand at the same level throughout the organ- ism. In fatal typhoid or Malta fever, for instance, the agglutinating action may be as much as 200 times greater in the circulating blood than in the spleen pulp. Bacteria live and multiply in these regions of lowered bacteriotropic pressure. Thus in the case of an abscess the opsonic power of the pus serum was found to be only one-sixth of that of the blood. Wright's work on opsonins has chiefly been made use of and extended in connection with tuberculous infection. Tubercle may be either localised or general, and attended with constitutional disturbance. In localised tubercle the opsonic index is low ; in the generalised form it may be either low or high, up to as much as twice normal. When the infection is acute the opsonic index rises and falls within wide limits, because the patient is inoculating himself with successive doses of tubercle, and in consequence negative and positive phases are alternating with one another. The question naturally arises. Is the low opsonic index in localised tuberculous and staphylococcal infec- tion a cause, or a result, of the bacterial in- vasion 1 Wright is of opinion that it is an evidence of failure of the defences of the organism, and that to it the infection is due. (Precipitines.—When an animal is immunised with the serum of a different species, precipi- tines appear in the serum of the former, and confer on it the power of causing a precipitate, or cloudiness, in the serum used for immunisa- tion. The reaction is so delicate that xtnny of the serum used for immunisation can be detected. The reaction is, within limits, specific. It is always most marked towards the serum of the particular species used, but serums from allied species give a similar though less marked reaction. Thus an anti-human serum gives a slight precipitate with the serum of the anthropoid apes.) Theories of Imbiunity.—Two theories, Ehrlich's and Metchnikoff's, fall to be con- sidered. 1. Ehrlich's Side-Chain Theory. — Al- though many criticisms have been levelled at it, the " side-chain" theory may be said to receive general acceptance in its main outlines as a working hypothesis of the nature of immunity. It must be remembered that it is a theory only, and that it will probably require modification in the future. Some of its details are open to question, yet as it, more than any other, offers a fairly coherent explanation of many of the phenomena of immunity, it deserves some consideration here. Ehrlich looks on the neutralisation of toxin by antitoxin as a chemical, not a physiological process, and in this the majority of observers agree with him. In standardising diphtheria toxin against a standard serum of which a given quantity was able to neutralise 100 minimum lethal doses of toxin, certain anoma- lies occurred:—(1) A less quantity of toxin than 100 M.L.D. neutralised the serum, and (2) to a neutral mixture of toxin-antitoxin more than one extra M.L.I), of toxin had to be added in order to kill a guinea-pig within the conventional time. Ehrlich explained these discrepancies by showing that in crude toxin some of the toxin molecules underwent modification to toxoids, which, though almost non-poisonous, could still combine with anti- toxin. Their combining affinity might be equal to, greater than, or less than, that of toxin. Where a crude toxin ^j??«s toxoid of low affinity is used to neutralise antitoxin, and more toxin is subsequently added to the neutral mixture, the first molecules to be set free will be the loosely combined non-poisonous toxoids, and until these are all liberated no free toxin will be present, and no poisonous effect produced. Variations in the number of M.L.D. of crude toxin required to neutralise completely a standard antitoxin depend on the relative amount of toxin and toxoid present, while the fact that more than one M.L.D. is needed to convert a neutral into a lethal mixture arises from the presence in the neutral mixture of loosely combined non- poisonous toxoids, which go on being liberated, and having their places taken by the added toxin, which is thus rendered innocuous. From the above observations Ehrlich assumed that the toxin (toxoid) molecule consists of two