11& DIGESTIVE FUNCTIONS, TESTS FOR THE attached material is determined. The test substances are—catgut, thin fish bone, fibre of raw beef, potato with a piece of the skin, fat, and thymus. Catgut is digested in the stomach and intestine, fish bone in the stomach only— from the state of the corresponding beads the relative activity of the stomach and intestine is estimated. The raw beef, potato, and fat give a clue to the digestion of proteid fat and starch. Thymus is used to test the activity of the pancreas. Unless the pancreas is active the nuclei of the thymus are not digested. REFERENCES.—EtNHORN, Arch. f. Verdanungsk., 20th Feb. 1906 ; ibid., 28th Feb. 1907 ; ibid., 25th Oct. 1907. Sahli's Desmoid Reaction.—This depends on the fact that raw connective tissue is digested only by the gastric juice, not by the pancreatic or intestinal solution. It is therefore a test of gastric activity, and was intended to replace, or to be an adjunct to, the use of the test meal. " Desmoid capsules" consist of small rubber bags containing methylene blue. The mouth of the l)ag is tightly tied up with fine catgut. One of these is swallowed during a meal, and when the catgut is loosened by digestion the methylene blue is set free and discolours the urine. It seems that if the drug- appears in the urine within eight hours of administration, the functions of the stomach may be regarded as active. REFERENCES.—Sahli, Corr. Blatt. f. Schiodg. Aerzte, pp. 8-9, 1905 ; Deutsche med. Wochensch., No. 30, 1907.—HiLLMAN, Arch. f. Verdauungsk., 28th Aug. 1907.—HoRWiTZ,30th Aug. 1906. Schmidt's Test Diet.—To estimate the functional activity of intestinal digestion, Schmidt gives a diet consisting of—Breakfast, half a litre of milk or cocoa and 50 grams of rusks. Lunch, half a litre of gruel (40 grams oatmeal, an egg, 10 grams butter, 200 grams milk, 300 grams water). Dinner, 125 grams underdone minced meat cooked with 20 grams butter, and 25 grams of potato puree (mashed potato, milk, and butter). Afternoon, as breakfast. Supper, as lunch. The essential components of the diet are the cereals and the underdone meat. The diet is continued for several days ; some colouring matter (charcoal) may be added to show when the stools are beginning to be affected. The faeces are rubbed up with water and a quantity is spread out for examination on a suitable black surface. They are then examined for (1) mucus; ("2) residue of connective tissue and muscular fibre; (3) carbohydrate residue ; (4) fat. The exam- ination is conducted with the naked eye, and by the microscope. Mucks indicates intestinal catarrh. Large shreds occur in mucous colitis, and in affection of the colon generally (e.y. constipation masked by irritative diarrhoea); small, bile-stained flakes of mucus come from the small intestine. Conii.ective tissue fibre. — If these are present, gastric digestion is deficient, for the gastric juice alone can digest fibrous tissue. Muscle fibre is digested both in the stomach and intestine. Connective tissue may be found either on account of gastric inadequacy, or because the contents of the stomach are hurried too rapidly into the duodenum. Therefore connective tissue residue only = gastric indiges- tion; muscle fibre alone = intestinal indigestion; connective tissue and muscle fibre = gastric and intestinal indigestion. Carbohydrate. —OwXy a few cells of potato should be fomid under normal circumstances If there is any excess, the digestion of starch is faulty. Under the name of "intestinal dyspepsia with fermenta- tion," Schmidt describes a symptom-group of colic, loose stools containing quantities of starch but no fat or proteid, and malnutrition. Fat is rarely present. Excess can only be estimated roughly, hence the diet gives little information as to the digestion of fat. If the stools are normal, or nearly so, solid particles are so small as to require microscopic examination for their identification. Three slides are made— one of the liquid fasces alone, one stained with iodine in iodide of potash to show starches, and one with the addition of 30 per cent, acetic acid to dissolve soaps and lime salts and show fatty acids. Chemical examination has also been I'esorted to (Steel) and a fermentation test has been applied, but the main information obtainable from the test diet is got by simple inspection. REFERENCES. — Schmidt, Die functionsprufung des Darmes laittels der Frobikost (Wiesbaden), 1904.— Roux and Riva, Gaz. d. Hop., 17th June 1905.— Steel, Med. News (New York), 16th Dec. 1905. Occult Blood in the F^ces.—By the term "occult haemorrhage" is meant that the amount of blood is so small as to elude visual detection, and requires the application of chemical tests for its recognition. The presence of even these very minute quantities of blood in the motions is sometimes of considerable diagnostic import- ance in deciding as to the presence or absence of gastric cancer or ulcer. Boas states that in hyper-and hj'po chlorhydria, in hyper secretion, and in simple dilatation occult blood is never found. In cases of pyloric stenosis secondary to ulcer, it may or may not occur, while in gastric cancer it is invariably, and in gastric ulcer usually, present. Certain precautions must be taken in testing for occult blood. For two or three days before the test is made the patient's diet must have contained nothing which will give a reaction—i.e. no flesh, no meat extract containing haemoglobin. A stomach tube must not have been passed recently, as it may have caused an abrasion of the oesophageal or gastric mucosa. Other sources of haemorrhage