PREGNANCY, PATHOLOPxY OF 306 most serious type and shows a distinct rise in the ammonia coefficient (above 10 per cent.) and calls for the termination of pregnancy. There are, of course, other causes, such as gastric ulcer and gastric cancer and urtemia ; but these can generally be excluded, and the diagnosis narrowed down to vomiting of the nervous or of the toxaemic type. Tuszkai {Berl. Klin., xviii. p. 218, 1900) is opposed to the toxsemic theory, and would explain true hyperemesis gravidarum as due to peritoneal irritation, the result of the great stretching to which that membrane is subject by the growing uterus and of the defective nutrition following upon the stretching ; but it has to be remembered that great enlargement of the uterus, as in twin pregnancies and hydram- nios, is not always accompanied by vomiting. Dufour and Cottenot {Rev. neural., xvi. p. 1345, 1908) also look to the nervous system for the cause, and record two cases in which the in- tractable vomiting of pregnancy seems to have been due to locomotor ataxia. There are cer- tainly several facts M^hich point to a neurosis, e.g. the cure of certain cases by the performance of a small operation, such as stretching the cervix or applying caustic to it, by suggestion or by the rest cure (Fieux, Bull, et mhn. Soc. de med. et chir. de Bordeaux, p. 406, 1907 ; Hcholomo- witsch, Russ. med. Rundschau, v. p. -517, 1907) ; but, on the other hand, the toxgemic theory is favoured by the cessation of the vomiting when there is timely emptying of the uter'us. The safest conclusion to which to come (in the present state of our knowledge) would seem to be to regard most cases as nervous in origin, l)ut to be prepared for the occasional occurrence of toxaemia as a cause. Under the circumstances treatment must neces- sarily be unsatisfactory, but K. Baisch {Berl. klin. Wochenscli., xliv. p. 297, 1907) lays down certain useful rules. Believing, as he does, that there is a special predisposition to intract- able vomiting in some pregnant women and that this predisposition resides either in the uterus (overproduction of or alteration in some chemical substance therein), or in the central nervous system (abnormal irritability), or in the stomach (weak digestion in the past), Baisch orders complete rest in bed, sometimes with an icebag on the abdomen ; then he with- holds all food, solid and fluid, for twenty-four hours, giving saline fluid subcutaneously to relieve the consequent thirst; thereafter food is given with great care, iced milk in teaspoon- fuls, dry biscuit, then later tea and coffee with milk, and so on, the return to ordinary diet being very gradual ; after these means have been tried, the patient, if uncured, should l)e placed in a hospital {e.g. in the pre-maternity ward of a maternity hospital). Baisch regards scopolamine as the best sedative. When all these remedies fail and the symptoms continue to threaten the life of the patient, the preg- nancy should be interrupted, and Baisch prefers to empty the uterus at one sitting. H. Freund {Deutsche med. Wochensch., xxxiii. p. 1625, 1907) also discusses the treatment of the uncontrol- lable vomiting of pi-egnancy in great detail ; he looks for a predisposing cause in congenital or acquired anomalies of the stomach, in blood diseases and cachectic conditions, in the nervous and hysterical temperament, and in naso- pharyngeal aftections. When a woman with such a predisposition becomes pregnant, treat- ment ought to be begun before the appearance of the vomiting ; her medical attendant must keep her under observation and there ought to be a nurse in charge ; at first the treat- ment must be physical and any discoverable anomalies in the genital sphere should be corrected ; thereafter, when the hyperemesis is in existence, rest in bed, the wearing of a tight abdominal binder, warm rectal injections of saline, the application of hot alcohol to the epigastrium, and the administration of caco- dylate of sodium per rectum or subcutaneously should be relied on. Freund's dietetic and psychical treatment resembles that recom- mended by Baisch ; and the termination of pregnancy is to be a last resort. Among the rare complications of pregnancy (affecting the digestive system) must now be placed axial torsion of the large intestine, a fatal case of which was recorded bj' Georg Becker in 1908 {Monatssch. f. Gehurtsh. u. Gyndk., xxviii. p. 155, 1908). The patient was 45 years of age, and was pregnant for the fifteenth time. She had twice given birth to twins. In the eighth month of gestation abdominal pain came on followed by vomiting, and there were all the signs of intestinal ob- struction ; the cervix was dilated and a dead female foetus was removed; the mother died five hours later. At the necropsy the sigmoid flexure, which had a long mesocolon, was found to be twisted on the axis of the mesentery and to be in a gangrenous state. Becker has gathered together from literature seven other cases, all of them, with one exception, fatal. Acute Yellow Atrophy o_f the Liver is associ- ated in some measure with both eclampsia and hyperemesis gravidarum. Like them, it is obscure in its etiology and generally fatal in its issue. Amongst several contributions of value which have been made to the understand- ing of it within the past few years may be named Bertino's paper {Ginecologia, v. pp. 417- 448, 1908). In this article ten cases of icterus gravidarum were recorded, of which seven were benign, one was serious from the first and proved fatal, and two became serious although benign at first and both ended in death. Bertino came to the conclusion that in cases of epidemic or sporadic icterus in pregnancy the disease, although apparently benign, might very easily