HORMONES 188 pp. 88-91 (London), 1906. See also DIGESTION, p. 117. Hung^er Days.—See Diabetes {Diet). Hydrobilirubin. — A reddish - brown pigment found in the fasces and in the urine (in fever); its formula is CjaHjoNjOy, and it is closely allied to urobilin. HydrocenOSiS.—The reduction of a dropsy either by medicinal means or by operation (paracentesis); it is derived from the Greek Zbuo, water; and pcsvo'g, empty. Hydropyrin. —A proprietary medicine, stated to be sodium acetyl-salicylate, and claimed to be preferable to aspirin on account of its neutral reaction, greater solubility, and the absence from it of irritative action. For report, see Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1909, p. 960. Hygiama.—A proprietary food prepara- tion, described as " a perfect food," to be given mixed with milk and boiled; an analysis showed protein 21'7 per cent., fat 8'9 per cent., vvater 4'1 per cent., ash 3'6 per cent., and carbohydrate (comprising both starch and a reducing sugar) 61*7 per cent.; the calorie value was 4'25. See report in Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1910, p. 1240. Hygiene, Antenatal.— See Eugenics. HygTOmedry. — A term signifying medical hygroscopy or the quantitative estima- tion of the water vapour given off from limited areas of the skin; the instrument employed is called a hj'gromed or medical hygroscope. See H. E. Wetherill, Hygromedry (Philadelphia), 1906. Hylic Tissue.—One of the two sub- divisions of the tissues of the adult body (the other being the lepidic), viz., those which arise from the " pulps " of the embryo {e.g. the chief mass of the neuroblast, the notochord, and the mesenchyme), (see Adami, Pathology, i. pp. 700- 704). From the hylic tissues arise the hylomas, {q.v.). Hylomas.—Tumours arising from tissues derived from the embryonic pulp (Gr. raw material or matter); the term is employed by Adami to differentiate between his two great groups of tumours—the lepidoraas (tumours arising from lepidic or " lining membrane" tissues), and those under consideration arising from the hylic tissues; the hylomas include growths of epiblastic origin (neuroma, glioma, gliosarcoma), of hypoblastic origin (chordoma), and of mesenchymal origin (fibroma, lipoma, chondroma, osteoma, myxoma, leiomyoma, angioma, myeloma, sarcoma, with its varieties, and rhabdomyoma). See Adami, Pathology, i. pp. 700-705, 1910. HypamniOS.—Scanty amount of liquor amnii in pregnancy or at the time of labour; oligohy d ramnios. Hyperchlorhydria. —The most common of all forms of indigestion—acid dyspepsia—is that which is associated with abnormal acidity of the gastric contents. Hyperchlorhydria, or hypersecretion, has been the subject of many communications during the past five or six years, and there is much diversity of opinion as to its nature. For some, the fault is a secretion of hyperacid gastric juice, and it is stated that the presence of more than '2 per cent, of HCl one hour after Ewald's test breakfast is evidence of hyper- acidity. It appears, however, that in some persons a higher percentage than this may be unaccompanied by symptoms, and that in others symptoms may exist with a lower percentage. According to Bickel's latest researches, the fault is more often quantitative than qualitative, and the percentage of acid secreted remains at a uniform level. The main justification for retaining the term hyper- chlorhydria is the definiteness of the symptom- group. It is most common in youth or middle age, and among the chief causes which predispose to it are mental worry and overwork, especially in persons of a nervous disposition, indiscre- tions in diet, abuse of alcohol and tobacco; it is also related to gastric ulcer and duodenal ulcer, to chlorosis, and to chronic constipation. The chief symptoms are heartburn, acid eructations, and severe epigastric pain. The pain comes on from two to four hours after a meal, and often radiates to the back; it is relieved by the ingestion of food, especially bland albuminous food, such as milk, and by alkalies. Vomiting is rare; the appetite remains good, chronic constipation is the rule. In point of diagnosis, the principal matter is to exclude gastric ulcer. It must be remem- bered that hyperchlorhydria exists as a symptom of ulcer, so that the difficulty may be very great. The pain of gastric ulcer is said to be more directly influenced l)y the bulk of the food taken ; it also begins sooner as a rule. The stools should be examined for " occult bleeding." Looking at the question of diagnosis from another point of view, some deny that hyperchlorhydria is ever an inde- pendent disease; thus Cohnheim, for example, classifies cases under the following heads :— (1) Acid gastritis; (2) ulcer and stenosis of the pylorus; (3) chronic constipation; (4) gastric crises of tabes; (5) neurasthenia—and