142 ECTOPIC PREGNANCY medical attendant, must be regarded as sugges- tive of the ectopic variety. The occurrence of irregular uterine hiemorrhage accompanied by abdominal pain (often of the colicky type) and sometimes with the discharge of a decidual membrane, along M'ith feelings of sickness and sometimes of syncope, should rouse our sus- picions, but very often rather direct our thoughts to threatened or incomplete abortion. Indeed one of the commonest mistakes is to confound an ectopic pregnancy with an abortion and an abortion with an ectopic pregnancy. When, as in one of Munro Kerr's cases {Operative Midwifery^ p. 560, 1908), there is appendicitis as well as abortion, such a mistake in diagnosis is not difficult to make. Other errors are the confusing of the ectopic preg- nancy with retroversion of the gra^'id uterus, with pyosalpinx, with an ovarian or a uterine tumour, with malformations of the uterus, or with pregnancy in a rudimentary horn, etc. In all these cases the bimanual examination will give a chance of accurate diagnosis ; but it must be very carefully and very gently carried out, as the chance of rupturing an ectopic gestation sac during such a manipulation is not imaginary. The use of the uterine sound may be helpful, but it is not free from risk ; the curette also is dangerous, and the microscopic examination of the scraping, unless it show villi, does not serve to distinguish an intra-uterine from an extra-uterine pi'egnancy. The Rontgen rays have been used in diagnosis by Salin, Stein, and others, l)ut with no very certain advantage or results. In many cases the gynecologist will still be in doubt as to his diagnosis when he opens the abdomen. When the ectopic gestation _goes on to full term the diagnosis is not nearly so difficult; the previous history of the patient, the disturbance of the pelvic functions of micturition and defsecation, the presence of two tumours in the abdomen (uterine and extra-uterine), the ease with which fcetal parts are felt, and sometimes the occurrence of a " spurious labour" all help the gynecologist to a correct estimate of the condition. The possibility of mistaking hydramnios in a thin- walled uterus for an extra-uterine pregnancy must, however, be borne in mind. Perhaps the most puzzling cases are those in which the foetus has died and the ectopic sac has shrunken and become " sequestered " ; such remains of old extra-uterine pregnancies may be met with in the abdomen in women of any age up to seventy and even eighty. Of course, in making a diagnosis one has to keep the possibility of ectopic pregnancy existing along- side of a normal pregnancy or of some other morbid state, such as an ovarian tumour. Sittner's article {Deutsche med. Wochensch., xxix. pp. 743, 759, 787, 1903) gives a good .account of the difficulties of diagnosis in ectopic gestation, and other useful papers are by Sir Halliday Groom {Practitioner, Ixxii. p. 601, 1903), Eustache {Journ. d. sc. med. de Lille, ii. p. 97, 1903), Fabricius {Wien. med. Presse, xlviii. pp. 498, 542, 1907), Grandin {Amer. Gynec, ii. p. 42, 1903), Haultain {Journ. Obstet. a7id Gyncec. Brit. Emp., ix. p. 403, 1906),Lichtenstein {Miinch.med. Wochensch.,\m. p. 498, 1906), Milligan(/o?M-«. Obstet. andGyncec. Brit. Emp., ix. p. 423, 1906), Pestalozza {Gine- cologia,\. p. 545,1904), Reynolds {Bosto7i Med. and Surg. Journ., cxlvi. p. 306, 1902), and by Vine- berg {Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc., xxxvi. p. 1305, 1901). There are certain very difficult matter.?, such as the distinction between an interstitial or tubo-uterine pregnancy and an angular pregnancy {i.e. implantation of the ovum in the i;pper angle of the uterus over the tubal ostium), which the diagnostician can hardly hope to settle prior to abdominal section. Treatment. During the past few years the experience of gynecologists has been such as to encourage, more and more, operative methods in dealing with ectopic gestations of all kinds and at all stages. The expectant plan of treatment has been less and less used ; for while it is quite likely that tubal moles and tubal abortions may in time be absorbed or rendered innocuous by pi'olonged rest, yet there are risks of no small magnitude during the process, and these operation is generally able to remove ; at any rate, the convalescence will be much hastened after a properly carried out laparotomy or vaginal section. If, therefore, an ectopic gesta- tion has been diagnosed, the rule is to operate, and expectant treatment is permissible only while the ectopic gestation remains intact and its diagnosis consequently uncertain. With regard to the question of which is the better route to be followed in operating upon early extra-uterine pregnancy, it cannot be stated that the vaginal has yet been shown to be preferable to the abdominal. Strassmann {Berl. klin. Wochensch., xxxix. pp. 563, 588, 613, 1902) and Orthmann {Deutsche med. Wochensch., xxxiv. p. 192, 1908) are strongly in favour of the vaginal route ; and the latter supports his argument with much statistical evidence, maintaining that vaginal section, especially anterior colpo-coeliotomy, gives a sufficiently good survey of the field of operation, allows rapid access to the diseased tube, avoids shock and the after-risk of hernia, and has a shorter convalescence. He admits that the vaginal operation is more difficult, and is only to be employed up to the end of the third month. Brose {Zeitsch.f. Geburtsh. u. Gyndk., xliii. p. 389, 1900), Child {Yale Med. Journ., x. p. 101, 1903), De Paoli {Rassegna d'ostet. e. ginec, xvi. p. 273, 1907), Ford {Trans. Amer. Gynec. Soc, xxxi. p. 157, 1906) and others have