283 PANCREAS, DISEASES OF THE (2) Urine.—Cammidge's " Pancreatic Re- action."—The original method of performing the test, as described by Cammidge in 1904, has undergone more than one modification, and has been superseded by the improved or " C-reaction," the technique of which is de- scribed by Robson and Cammidge in these words :— " A specimen of the twenty-four hours' urine, or of the mixed evening and morning secre- tions, is filtered several times through the same filter-paper. If it is found to be free from sugar and albumin, and is acid in reaction, 2 c.c. of strong hydrochloric acid (sp. gr. 1-16) are mixed with 40 c.c. of the clear filtrate, and the mixture gently boiled on a sand-bath, in a small flask, fitted with a funnel condenser. After ten minutes' boiling the flask is well cooled in a stream of water, and the contents made up to 40 c.c. with cold distilled water. The excess of acid is then neutralised by slowly adding 8 grams of lead carbonate. After standing for a few minutes to allow of the completion of the reaction, the flask is again cooled in running water, and the contents filtered through a well-moistened, close-grained filter-paper until a perfectly clear filtrate is obtained. The acid filtrate is then well shaken with 8 grams of powdered tribasic lead acetate, and the resulting precipitate removed by filtration, as clear a filtrate as possible being secured by repeating the filtration several times if necessary. Since the large amount of lead now in solution would interfere with the subsequent steps of the experiment, it is removed, either by a stream of sulphuretted hydrogen, or, what we have found to be equally satisfactory and less disagreeable, by precipitating the lead as a sulphate. For this purpose the filtrate is well shaken with 4 grams of powdered sodium sulphate, the mixture heated to the boiling-point, then cooled to as low a temperature as possible in a stream of cold water, and the whole precipi- tate removed by careful filtration. Ten cubic centimetres of the perfectly clear, transparent filtrate are taken and made up to 17 c.c. with distilled water; it is then added to -8 gram phenylhydrazin hydrochlorate, 2 grams of sodium acetate, and 1 c.c. of 50 per cent, acetic acid, contained in a small flask fitted with a funnel condenser. The mixture is boiled on a sand-bath for ten minutes and filtered hot through a small filter-paper, moistened with hot water, into a test-tube provided with a 15 c.c. mark. Should the filtrate fall short of 15 c.c, it is made up to that amount with hot distilled water, the added water being well mixed with the fluid by stirring with a glass rod, but in our own work we find that any addition is rarely necessary, as, •with a little practice, it is possible to so regulate the boiling that the final result almost always comes out at between 15 and 16 c.c. " In well-marked cases of pancreatic inflam- mation a light yellow, flocculent precipitate should appear in a few hours, but in less characteristic cases it may be necessary to leave the preparation overnight before a deposit occurs. Under the microscope the precipitate is seen to consist of long, light yellow, flexible, hair-like crystals arranged in delicate sheaves, which, when irrigated with 33 per cent, sulphuric acid, melt away and disappear in ten to fifteen seconds after the acid first touches them. The preparation must always be examined microscopically, as a small deposit may be easily overlooked with the naked eye, and it is also difficult to determine the exact nature of a slight precipitate by microscopical examination alone. " To exclude traces of sugar, undetected by the preliminary reduction tests, a control ex- periment is carried out by treating 40 c.c. of the filtered urine in the same way as that in the test just described, except that it is not boiled with hydrochloric acid. Any albumin that may be present in the urine is removed, previous to commencing the test, by faintly acidulating, boiling, filtering off the albuminous precipitate, cooling, and making the specimen up to its original bulk with distilled water. The urine employed for the experiment should be fresh, and not have undergone fermentative changes. If alkaline in reaction, it should be made dis- tinctly acid with hydrochloric acid before the test is commenced. Any dextrose that may be present can be removed by fermentation after the urine has been boiled with the acid and the excess neutralised." This " C-reaction" is slightly more compli- cated than the earlier tests advised by Cam- midge. It is said, however, to be more reliable, in that the result is more absolute, and less dependent on the personal equation of the observer. It may be added that the manipu- lations sound more troublesome than they actually are, and that with a little practice the test can be readily enough performed by any- one with the aid of a little simple apparatus. A positive reaction may be expected in all cases in which active inflammatory changes are going on in the pancreas. Acute pancreatitis can thus be distinguished from intestinal obstruction, and other conditions, while chronic pancreatitis associated with obstruction of the common duct can be distinguished by this means from obstruction of the duct due to gall- stones, etc. In the diagnosis of chronic pancreatitis from cancer of the organ the test is also of value. In about three-fourths of all cases of malignant disease the reaction is negative, while in the remaining fourth it is positive. The positive reaction in these cases shows that there is an