NERVES, SURGERY OF 276 the primary lesion renders the final complete recovery almost impossible (Clifford Allbutt, A System of Medicine, 2nd edition, vii. p. 381, Lond., 1910). Treatment of Cerebral, Spinal, and Peripheral Nerve Palsies and Athetosis by Nerve Transplan- tation.—Spiller, Frazier, and van Kaathoven have made an important contribution to this subject [Amer. Journal Medical Sciences, Mar. 1906). In 1902 Spiller suggested that in anterior poliomyelitis it might be possible to bring diseased peripheral nerve fibres into union with healthy nerves, and thereby to restore function, and in accordance with this suggestion a patient was treated in this way with distinct benefit. The chief dangers in operating on anterior poliomyelitis are delayed union and overgrowth of connective tissue in the nerve at the site of operation. Where a, whole nerve is diseased and is so large as the peroneal, it is probably necessary to cut a portion of the sound nerve used for grafting, either transversely or transversely and longi- tudinally, and when the latter is done, to insert the split portion into the diseased nerve, but where the fibres are small, as are those supplying the anterior tibial muscle, probably enough fibres are cut in the healthy nerve by the longitudinal splitting and the insertion of the diseased fibres within the slit. The new axis cylinders which develop after an injury of nerve fibres are more numerous than those existing before the operation, and probably by growing into the diseased nerve suffice for its innervation. Even at the date of Spiller's paper, grafting for limited paralysis due to anterior poliomyelitis had passed the experi- mental stage, Hackenbruch {Deuts, med. Woch., 22nd June 1905) had treated such cases with a measure of success; Kilvington (Brit. Med. Journal, 29th April 1905) had discussed the subject, and Harris and Low had grafted the fifth cervical into the sixth for deltoid paralysis. In athetosis it seemed to Spiller that it might be possible by nerve grafting to divert some of the excessive innervation of the flexors into the extensors and thus check or diminish the movements. In a case in which this was tried, the athetosis was relieved at the expense of causing a partial paralysis of the flexoi's, but as the athetosis had previously been very severe and incapacitating, the patient's life was ren- dered much more comfortable by the operation. It is obvious that in treating athetosis thus the source of irritation is not removed, and it might have the impulses sent over the motor tracts from the diseased cortex, having been arrested, would overflow into other tracts and cause dis- comfort. Nothing of the kind, howevei', took place. The operation performed in this case .showed that when the peripheral end of a healthy nerve is inserted into another healthy nerve by longitudinal and not transverse incision in the latter, return of function will occur in the inserted nerve. The musculo-spiral nerve was not cut transversely, yet partial return of function occurred in the distributions of the median and ulnar nerves. This justifies end- to-side anastomosis—the peripheral end of the affected nerve inserted into the unaff'ected nerve—in anterior poliomyelitis if the paralysis is confined to one or two muscles. If an entire nerve domain, such as that of the peroneal, were aff"ected, end-to-side anastomosis might not be enough, and it would be advisable to insert some healthy fibres into the diseased nerve. Frazier enunciates the principles of anasto- mosis from a surgeon's point of view. We have (1) lateral anastomosis (Fig. 1). Theoretically end-to-end anastomosis should give the best results ; but one must bear in mind that failures will occur, and if we split ofi" from an unaffected nerve some of its fibres, we are robbing a healthy group of muscles of part of their nerve supply. Hence lateral anastomosis causes less interfer- ence with the healthy nerves, and is to be pre- ferred when the paralysis is not extensive. (2) End-to-end anastomosis (Fig. 2). This would become the operation of choice if it be shown that the healthy muscles are not permanently damaged. It would probably be necessary to operate thus where the paralysis is extensive. (3) Lateral anastomosis of the central end of a segment split from the unaflfected nerve into the affected nerve (Fig. 3). This is Hagen- bruch's method, and, as a believer in the central theory of regeneration, he argues that it will ensure the young axis cylinders from the central stump sprouting into the diseased nerve, in- stead of leaving it more or less to chance as in ordinary lateral anastomosis. (4) End-to-end anastomosis of both central and peripheral ends of the affected nerve into the split segments of the unaff'ected nerve (Fig. 4). The object is to preserve the function of any unaffected fibres which may happen to persist in the diseased nerve. Technique.—The nerves must be injured as little as possible. They should never be handled with forceps. To avoid the need for steadying the nerves during suture, the sutures should be inserted before the nerve is divided ; the sutures should only include the sheath. A knife should be used to divide the nerves in preference to scissors, which cause bruising. Dissection should be as delicate as possible, with a minimum of trauma, so as to avoid the formation of scar tissue. Wound infection is fatal to success. After operation a plaster splint should be employed to ensure rest; the limb should be kept perfectly quiet for four to six weeks. The operative technique of nerve suture is also discussed by Murphj'- {op. cit.). First, remove all connective tissue from the nerve endings, even though this involves considerable