363 SYPHILIS Both soluble and insoluble preparations of mercury have been used. The disadvantage of the former is that, to be of any benefit, in- jections must be made daily, or at least three or four times a week; they are also painful, and the reaction is uncertain. The advantages of the insoluble prepai'ations are that they are more active, reaction is more lasting, and that they need be injected less frequently—once a week or once a fortnight. Lambkin advises mercury cream, of the following composition :— Hydrargyri g/s. Adipis lanpe anhjal. ..... 3ii- Paraffin liquid (2 i)er cent, carbolic) ad. . 3v- Maximum dose, in,x. =gr. i. Hg once a week. Technique of Treatment.—Very thorough trituration of the mercury and lanoline is essential. Two hours should be spent on the process. The carbolised paraffin is then added, and the whole thoroughly stirred. It should again be thoroughly stirred before each in- jection. In hot climates it should be kept in an ice chest, as at a temperature above 90° F. the mercury tends to sink; in cold weather it should be warmed to about 90° F. so as to allow it to run through the needle. Injections are made into the gluteal muscles with a platino-iridium needle attached to an all-glass syringe. The needle should be driven into the muscle with a single vertical thrust. Careful antiseptic precautions are required; the skin should be purified with 1 to 500 solution of perchloride, and the needle sterilised with boiling oil. Lambkin's practice is to give a grain of metallic mercury every week until all symp- toms have subsided—on an average, in six weeks to two months; then the injections are given once a fortnight for three months. A two months' rest is then allowed, then a second three months' course of fortnightly injections. During the second year these three-month periods of treatment are alternated wdth tw^o- month periods of rest, as may seem indicated. The aA crage duration of treatment is two years. As adjuncts to treatment, hot air or Turkish baths should be taken, or daily hot baths, with plenty of exercise. The diet should be liberal; spirits are interdicted, and smoking discouraged. The gums require special care ; the teeth should be brushed twice or thrice a day with an astrin- gent mouth-wash (lead subacetate and alum). The body weight should be noted weekly, and the urine examined for albumin. REFERENCES.—ScHADDiNN and Hoffmann, Arhei- ten a. d. Kaiserlichen Gcs. Amte. (Berlin), xxii. 1905. —Buschke and Fisher, Deutsche med. WochenscL, passim, 1905.—BoRDET and Gengon, Arch. Soc. Roy. de Med. deBrux., 1905.—Shknnan, Lancet, 10th and 'l7th March 1906 (with bibliography).—An admirable account of the discovery of the cause of syphilis from the pen of Prof. Metchnikoff will be found in Keogh Murphy and D'Akct Power's Systevi of Syphilis, vol. i.— Spielmetkr, Munch, med. Wochensnh., 28th May 1907.— MoTT, Brit. Med. Journ., 4th Jan. 1908.—Lambkin, ibid., 11th Nov. 1905.—Lane, ibid., 21st March 1908.— Sebum Diagnosis, Fleming and Others, Lancet, 29th May 1909.—Noguchi, Journ. Exper. Med., Jan., March 1909.—PORGES, Wien. klin. Wochensch., No. 8, 1908. 2Veat}nen.t by Salvarsan 606 ").—Although at the time of writing it is impossible to say whether the new drug introduced by Ehrlich for the cure of syphilis will fulfil the hopes which are justly entertained for it, the discovery is of such scientific interest, the immediate re- sults of treatment are so striking, and the steps which have led up to the production of the new drug are so suggestive of possible future de- velopments along analogous lines of research,, that " 606," a name which became very familiar to readers of the medical journals during the latter part of 1910, merits more than a merelj'' passing reference. The full name of the drug is dioxy-diamido- arsenobenzol; it is more conveniently referred to under its number 606, or as the Ehrlich- Hata remedy for syphilis. It is used by sub- cutaneous or intravenous injection, and the idea underlying its use is to give in one dose sufficient utterly to annihilate the spirochsetes in the body. Whether this is actually possible or no, it is an undoubted fact that after a single injection syphilitic manifestations— primary, secondary, and tertiary—may under- go rapid regressive changes and disappear in a manner which has never been seen under any system of mercurial treatment. In a disease which runs so protracted a course it is obvious that several years must elapse before the real efficacy of the remedy is determined; up to the present it is only possible to speak of its immediate action, and that is sufficiently striking. Dioxy-diamido-arsenobenzol was in no sense a " lucky hit" of its discoverer ; it was led up to by years of patient work on trypanocidal and spirillicidal drugs. In experimental trypano- some injections in animals Ehrlich found that by giving trypauocides, such as atoxyl, or fuchsin, or trypan-red, he could destroy large numbers of the trypanosomes, but that ultimately the organisms became resistant to a drug to which formerly they were susceptible; in his own words, he produced " atoxyl-fast " or " fuchsin- fast" strains of trypanosome. It followed that the drugs in question had molecular groupings adapted to attaching them to certain receptors of the trypanosome, and further research showed that a parasiticide maj^ anchor itself to a trypanosome by several sets of receptors—e.g. arseno-phenyl-glycin anchors itself l)y its acetic acid as well as its arsenic-containing group. It thus became a problem of " chemotherapy " to produce by synthesis drugs which should have a special affinity (by reason of containing appropriate