•261 MENSTRUATION accepted that in women otherwise normal the occurrence of menstruation may be the sole, or at least the onh^ obvious cause of abnormal nets. Marx [Berl. kiln. iVocheusch., xlv. p. 1776, 1908) has thrown some light upon this last-named question. He has pointed out that shop-thefts are nearly always perpetrated by women, a fact which is generally known, but he has further stated that the thief is nearly always found to be menstruating at the time when she is caught stealing. This fact, he adds, is specially noticeable in those apparently purposeless thefts, when the criminal is a woman in comfortable circumstances and even wealthy. Marx further is of opinion that menstruation may aftect the reliability of the evidence of female witnesses in law cases, by altering their •capability of observation and their soundness of judgment, although he admits that Wollen- burg had found little difference in this respect between women in the intra-menstrual and in the extra-menstrual period. It is also pointed out that female suicides in most cases take away their lives during menstruation. Marx therefore comes to the conclusion that even women apparently healthy may pass into a condition of " transitory mental inferiority during the time of ovulation." But to settle this and other cognate questions is hardly possible on the evidence that has been collected ; what is needed is a work containing full statistics of large numbers of cases in which the relation- ship of menstruation to the physical and mental health of the woman has been carefully ascer- tained and recorded, an expansion, in fact, of Mary Putnam Jacobi's Essay on 7V/e Qicestion of Rest for Women during J/eiistruatioii which was published more than thirty years ago. Tobler's contribution {Monatssch. f. Geburtuh. n. Gi/)idk., xxii. p. 1, 1905) to the subject, although small, is important; she finds that in most women at the present day menstruation is associated with distinct deterioration of the general health and diminution of functional «nergy, but in a small luimber of cases (3-3 per cent.) there is greater strength in the mental and other functions during the period. Menstruation, Morbid. Amenorrhcka 261 Dysmenorrhcea 262 MiTTELSCHJIERZ 263 Menstruatio Pr.ecox .... 263 Menorrhagia and Metrorrhagia . 264 1. Amenorrhgea.—In addition to the causes of amenorrhoea usually enumerated (vide En- cijclopedia and Dictionary of Medicine, Vol. VI. pp. 341-3-43), it may be found necessary to mention eye diseases, such as hasmorrhagcs into the vitreous. J. E. Gemmell (Journ. Ohstet. and Gynoec. Brit. Emp., v. p. 445, 1904) has, at any rate, recorded a case in which a girl of 16 years of age ceased to menstruate, and at the same time lost the sight of the right eye, and developed a faint floating vitreous cloud in the left. There was no amemia, and the blood and urine were found to be normal. The only other possible causes of the amenorrhoea were that the girl had left home for the first time to go to school, and had been subject to some mental strain in connection with her lessons. Under the administration of iron and aloes and thyroid tabloids, along with local treatment of the eyes, menstruation returned, and the sight of the left eye was fully recovered, but very little improvement took place iji the right. The author was of opinion that the haemorrhages into the vitreous might be regarded as due to vicarious menstruation. Blondel and Seudral {Gyne'cologie, ix. p. 5, 1904) have also reported a case in which amenorrhcea was asso- ciated with eye disease. The patient, at the age of 29, lost her husband, and began to suffer from irregular menstruation, followed in a year by amenori'hu'a. At the same time the sight of the left eye began to depreciate, and, notwith- standing sympathectomy and iridectomy, was lost by the age of 32 years ; an ulcer developed on the cornea of the right eye. Under emme- nagogue treatment (ovarine capsules, apiol tabloids, and iron and aloes), menstruation was restored, and the sight of the right eye recovered, through healing of the corneal ulcer ; the useless left eyeball was removed. These two cases strengthen the belief, that has often been expressed, in the possibility of vicarious menstruation {xenomenia), although they cannot be regarded as affording absolute proof; they, at any rate, indicate close sympathy between menstrual phenomena in the utei'us and the functions of other bodily organs. Other alleged instances of vicarious menstruation have been reported by Delaney {Virginia Med. Semi- Month., ix. p. 536, 1904-5), Gillmore {Amer. Jonrn. Obstet., liii. p. 520, 1906), Scherer {Beitr. z. klin. d. Tuherk., vi. p. 287, 1906), Shambaugh {Laryngoscope, xvi. p. 53, 1906), and Larrabee {Boston Med. and Surg. Jour?/,., clvii. p. 217, 1907). Recent researches have shown that the so- called physiological amenorrhcea of lactation is by no means so constant as has been supposed. Thus, Elis Essen-MtiUer {Zentralh. f. Gyndk., XXX. p. 175, 1906) has found that in 59'3 per cent of 428 nursing women, menstruation went on normally ; no discharge occurred in 32'3 per cent. ; whilst 8'5 per cent, showed irregu- larities. Karl Heil {Monatssch. f. Geburtsh. u. Gyndk., xxiii. p. 340, 1906) studied the histories of 200 women, with, in all, 540 deliveries, and found that 125 of these women experienced the return of menstruation while they were suckling their babies. In 234 of 499 lactations the pei-iods were re-established before weaning, the