122 DRUGS, RECENT contractions following burns and injuries, scler- oderma, lupus, Dupuj'ti'en's contraction, etc. It has also been employed in the treatment of corneal opacity, deafness associated with scler- otic processes in the ear, strictures of the urethra and oesophagus in association with the use of bougies, stenosis of the pylorus, poly- arthritis, pleuritic thickening, neuritis, and a great many other diseases. The reports of its efficacy vary a good deal, but the remedy is at least worthy of trial in such conditions. In- jections should be given on every second or third day ; a course of twenty-five or fifty may 1)6 required before much improvement is seen, but good results may follow a considerably smaller number. Formic Acid and the Formates.—Formic acid and the formates have been introduced on account of their supposed stimulant and tonic action on the muscles. It has not been proved that they really have the efficacy ascribed to them; Goodall was unable to as- certain any definite pharmacological action on the blood-pressure, heart-beat, or voluntary muscles. No diuresis was observed. Formic acid is used as a twenty-five per cent, solution in doses of 2-10 minims; the sodium salt (-g-S grs.) is also employed. Ker and Groom speak favourably of formic acid in preventing heart- failure in diphtheria. The formates are largely used as "tonics," and seem to produce at least a subjective sensation of well - being and to remove fatigue. Heroin (acetomorphine) hydrochloride is a morphine derivative chiefly used in respiratory aff'ections. It is a sedative to the respiratory centre, increasing the force of the expiration and inspiration, and reducing the rate. It is also an expectorant, and soothes irritable cough. It does not tend to produce the disagreeable secondary effects of morphia—nausea, constipa- tion, headache. It is not depressant, and does not tend to produce a craving for the drug. It is used in hsemoptysis, and as an expectorant generally. The dose is -i-i gi'- The elixir heroin c. terpen. (B.P.C.) is a convenient prepaiation. Veronal.—This is a recently introduced hypnotic drug, also known as malourea. The dose is from 5 to 10 grs. It should be admin- istei-ed about half an hour before bedtime, dissolved in a cup of hot fluid. Toxic symp- toms are rare. Its chief use is in simple insomnia; it has also been employed as a prophj'lactic against sea-sicknes.s during short voyages, and as an aid to chloroform narcosis, a dose being given an hour befoie the ansesthetic is admin- istered. Veronal may be administered b}^ the rectum instead of the mouth. It is not cumulative. Proponal is a somewhat similar drug. Dug^Ong^ Oil.—An oil obtained from the fat of Halicoye australis and Halicore dugong by boiling, proposed by Hobbs, of Brisbane, as a substitute for cod liver oil, and used as such in Queensland in various wasting diseases. Diihrssen's Method.—The making of multiple deep incisions in the cervix uteri to hasten delivery, ^ee ACCOUCHEMENT Force {Methods). Diihrssen's Operation.—Vaginal Cesarean Section or vaginal hysterotomy. See Accouchement Force {Methods). Dukes' Disease.—See Erythema In- FECTiosuM (Fourth Disease). Dupre, Syndrome of.—^See Mening- ISM. Dupuytren's Contraction.—Keen {Amer. Journ. Med. Sci., Jan. 1906) describes a new operation for Dupuytren's contraction of the palmar fascia. He dissected out the entire palmar fascia in the following manner. An incision was made from the ball of the thumb on a line with the interspace between the fore- finger and middle finger down almost to the web between these finger.s, then across the palm along the roots of the fingers to a point opposite the web between the ring and little fingers, and then up to the ball of the little finger to a point opposite where it started from. The entire flaj) was dissected back, down to the sheaths of the tendons. It included on its under surface the entire palmar fascia. The next step was to direct the palmar fascia oft" the flap. Then the small fibres of fascia going to the index and little fingers were dissected out from under the skin at the edges of the wound. Half a dozen small vessels were tied, and the skin flap re- placed and held in position by sutures. The movement of the fingers were almost normal when the patient left hospital. To have dis- sected up the skin alone first before removing the fascia, M'ould almost certainly be followed by sloughing of the flap, but by lifting a flap consist- ing of all the tissues down to the tendons sufficient nourishment for the flap was ensured, and at the same time the palmar fascia was rendered readily accessible for removal. It was perfectly easy to reach the fibres to the index and little fingers by simply undermining the skin slightly. Dusart'S Wine.—A proprietary tonic wine, described as a '■ lacto-phosphate de chaux, ferrugineux"; for analysis, see Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1909, p. 1309. DusmO.—A hygroscopic sawdust used for removing dust from carpets and renovating their colour ; it is reported on in the Lancet