ANESTHESIA AND ANESTHETICS 31 cases this method of inducing anaesthesia is found to be simple and satisfactory, but occa- sionally a case occurs where, probably from some personal idiosyncrasy to the drug, diffi- culty is experienced in bringing the patient under its influence. The Psychical Effect of Jnceslhetics.—Mention has already been made of the value of adminis- tering a narcotic prior to giving a general anaesthetic. The value of quieting the state of mental perturbation into which many patients are thrown can be easily realised and appreci- ated, but it is difficult to Ijring forward definite proof of this fact. Crile, in an article upon the " Psychic Factor in Graves' Disease," provides such a proof very clearly. From facts observed clinically, and from evidence obtained from ex- perimental investigation, he submits the hypo- thesis that in Graves' disease the most powerful factor producing hyperthyroidism is psychic excitement. In some way, either directly or indirectly, this leads to the discharge into the circulation of an excessive amount of thyroid secretion, which in itself may cause death. According to him, the greatest factor in the mortality, when such cases are treated surgic- ally, is not the operation, but what has occurred prior to this. In other words, at the time the surgeon makes his first incision the fate of the patient has been already decided. When Graves' disease is to be treated by surgical operation, this should be performed virtually without the patient's knowledge. The gland should be " stolen." In order to do this, Crile has devised a procedure which consists of a deliberate deception of the patient as regards the nature of the treatment to be undergone. On the evening prior to the opei'ation bromides are given; in the early morning, if the condi- tions are favourable for operation, a hypodermic of morphia is administered. When under its influence ether is administered, the patient hav- ing been previously trained to believe that this procedure is part of a medical treatment. The operation of removing a part of the gland is then carried out. As a result of eliminating the psychic factor from the risks incidental to the surgical treatment of this disease, the author claims to have obtained a much higher per- centage of recoveries. Regional Anesthesia. Local Ancesthesia.—Local anaesthesia is now very widely practised, and the results ol^tained are found to be almost uniformly successful. It is an extremely safe method of inducing analgesia, and can be used in a wide variety of surgical operations. The uniform success which now attends its use is due to a variety of fac- tors. The most important of these is the addi- tion of the active principle of the suprarenal gland to the fluid infiltrated into the tissues. Braun was the first to use this substance in combination with cocaine as a local anaesthetic. Its presence causes contraction of the blood- vessels, and thus a smaller dose is required, the drug being localised, and its action intensi- fied and prolonged in consequence. There would also appear to be evidence that, when it is ultimately absorbed into the general circula- tion, it has been changed into an innocuous compound. The result is that the amount of the aufssthetic required is considerably less when adrenalin is used, and the amount that can be given with safety is much greater. Another factor which has contributed to the success which has attended the practice of local ansBsthesia in recent times is the much greater degree of dilution in which the fluid is used. As early as 1891 Schleich pointed out that it was possible to produce a very complete degree of analgesia if the tissues were thoroughly in- filtrated with a cold, neutral, salt solution, and when given in such a manner the anissthetic properties of such drugs as cocaine were greatly intensified. It is now customary to administer the anaesthetic dissolved in physiological salt solution. The advantage of injecting an iso- tonic fluid is that no irritation is caused, and the pi ocess is usually rendered absolutely pain- less. Braun has demonstrated that, when fluid such as distilled water is injected, this may be accompanied by a marked irritation of the part, even resulting in local necrosis. Probably also, to a certain extent, the increased success with which anaesthesia can now be induced locally is to l)e attributed to the use of certain drugs, such as novocaiue, which are less toxic than cocaine. Novocaine is one of the more recent substitutes for cocaine which have been introduced as a local anaesthetic. It is obtained in the form of a crystalline powder, which may be heated to a temperature of 120° C. without decomposition, and melts only at 155° C. It is soluble in its own weight of cold water, and the aqueous solu- tion is isotonic with human fluids, and in more dilute solutions it can be made up in normal saline solution. Novocaine is said to possess as great anaesthetic potency as cocaine, whereas the toxicity of it is extremely slight. It also would appear to be almost devoid of any irritat- ing action on the tissues. Local anaesthesia may be practised either by (1) directly infiltrating the drug into the part to be operated upon, or (2) by investing com- pletely the area to be operated on by peripheral infiltration. Both of these methods give very satisfactory results. The latter is now being very widely practised, and by means of it many operations can l)e most successfully performed. Thus large skin grafts may be removed from the front of the thigh, a finger may l)e ampu- tated by infiltrating the base of the digit, and so on. It possesses the advantage that there is no risk of disseminating infection by it, or of devitalising the site of the wound.