170 HAMMAESTEN'S TEST Hammarsten's Test.—A chemical test for bile pigments, the reagent being a mixture of one part of a 25 per cent, nitric acid and nineteen parts of 25 per cent, hydro- chloric acid; before use one part of the reagent is mixed with four parts of alcohol ; a few drops of urine added to the mixture cause a green colour if bile pigments are present. See Webster, Diagnostic Methods, p. 316, 1909. Hammerschlagr's Method.—An areometric method of ascertaining the specific gravity of the blood by means of a mixture of benzol and chloroform. See Webster, Diagnostic Methods, p. 387, 1909. Hanoi ine.—A proprietary preparation recommended as a detergent, especially for removing grease and grime [Lancet, ii. for 1908, p."l375). Harmaline.—An alkaloid (one of two, the other being harmine) found in the seeds of Feganiim harmala (the wild rose, irriyawv aypov, of Dioscorides) ; its formula is C13H14N2O, and its pharmacological action is similar to that of ([uinine (even in the detail of inducing sus- tained tetanic contraction of the uterus). See J. A. Gunn, Trans. Roy. Soc. Edin., vol. xlvii., Pt. ii., pp. 245-272, 1909-10. Harris's Urine Segregator.— Bladder, Female (Catlietensation). Hay Fever.—In 1902 Professor W. P. Dunbar, the Director of the State Institute for Hygiene, Hamburg, working at the cause of hay fever, disproved the bacterial theories of the origin of the disease which were then prevalent, and confirmed the correctness of Blackley's much earlier observation, viz. that the paroxysms were excited in susceptible persons by inhaling grass pollen. He showed that pollen collected in such a manner as to ensure its sterility retained the power of causing attacks; that pollen does not act merely as a mechanical irritant ; that its effects are due to a toxalbumin. Pollen capable of producing hay fever has been obtained fi'om 25 kinds of gi'asses, and from the privet, lily of the valley, rape, thistle, and some other plants. The pollen of roses, limes, and worm- Avood, which have been accused of producing the disease, is inactive. North American autumnal catarrh is due to the pollen of rag- weed and golden rod, two common weeds of that continent; it is also caused by the pollen of asters and chrysanthemums. The toxalbumin was prepared by precipitation with alcohol from a salted-out extract of crushed pollen. It is so active that xo^ott i^ig- (the amount contained in one or two grams of pollen) may bring on an attack in a susceptible person. It resists heat, requiring a temperature of 150° C. to destroy its properties. When hay-fever toxin is applied to the conjunctiva, nose, or throat, it produces (in susceptible persons) lachrymation, photophobia, sneezing, irritation of the nose, coryza, cough, dyspnoea, stridor; when rubbed into the skin there is a local redness or urticaria; sub- cutaneous injection may produce a severe attack of hay fever, with asthma, cyanosis, urticaria, and oedema—the last named per- sisting after the respiratory symptoms have subsided. Normal persons are insusceptible, but Semon points out that in persons who are liable to causeless attacks of sneezing a mild grade of reaction may occur. From this toxin an antitoxin (pollantin) can be prepared by actively immunising horses. An antiserum has been obtained strong enough to neutralise 60 times the dose of toxin required to produce marked reaction. It can only be standardised by using hay-fever patients as test-subjects. By injecting this antitoxin passive immunity limited to about 24 hours is obtained. The obvious drawbacks to repeated injection render this method of using it impracticable. Owing to the short duratio)i of passive immunity active immunisation is desirable, but on account of the unpleasant results of injections of toxin it cannot be employed for this purpose. Dunbar points out, however, that as the patient during the hay-fever season is constantly exposed to infection, active immunity will be acquired naturally ; during this time he advises the use of pollantin as a prophylactic, therefore his method of treatment is a combination of active and passive immunisation. He advises the daily instillation of one drop of liquid pol- lantin, or a mass of dry pollantin equal to the size of a pin's head, into each conjunctival sac, and into the nose. This should be done in the morning, before the patient is exposed to infection. If an attack occurs during the day the dose may be repeated. It is of importance during the treatment that the patient should do his utmost to ward off attacks, by avoiding umiecessary exposure to pollen, and that the treatment should be persisted in, not desisted from, because there has been freedom from hay fever for a few days. He gives the fol- lowing results of this treatment (1908):—696 cases with excellent results, 381 cases with partial success, 163 cases with no success. Semon finds that it is impossible to foretell which cases of hay fever will respond to treat- ment. Various surgical procedures have been employed, such as the correction of intranasal abnormalities (see Submucous Resection), partial and total turbinectomy, and resection of the nasal branch of the fifth nerve (as suggested and practised with some success by