226 LABOUR, INDUCTION OF PREMATURE internum with a specially constructed instru- ment (never an easy procedure); but there was until lately a general consensus of opinion that its disadvantages were much greater than its advantages. The bag of Avaters, so important as a dilating agent, was lost; the labour was rendered "dry" by the escape of the waters (generally complete by reason of the inability of the presenting part to fit accurately into the brim of the pelvis); and the foetal mortality was higher than with other methods. These disadvantages were held to do more than counterbalance the advantages that were alleged, viz. that the procedure was simple and easy (it was neither when the plan of perforat- ing the membranes high up was tried), that it was certain to be followed by labour pains, that it was painless, and that no anaesthetic was needed. Most obstetricians, therefore, must have read with some surprise that Otto von HerfF {Milnch. med. Wochensch., Iv. p. 2595, 1908) employed rupture of the membranes and thought very highly of it, that Polano (Miinch. med. Wochensch., liii. p. 1852, 1906) thought it the most harmless and simplest method, although it might take some time to bring on pains, and that de Reynier (Beitr. z. Gehurtsh. u. Gynaek., ix. p. 97, 1904) strongly advocated it. Hannes {Milnch. med. Wochensch., liv. p. 1974, 1907), also, although he did not re- commend it, did not apparently strongly dis- approve of it; he thought it was unnecessary. Munro Kerr {Operative Midivifery, p. 446, 1908) took up a more orthodox position in simply ignoring puncture of the membranes ; and we shall be sin-prised if Scheel's method (as it is sometimes called) is restored to favour once more. In the meantime the method in common use in the maternity hospitals of this country would seem to be the insertion of a bougie between the membranes and the uterine wall. It has been termed Krause's method, but, as Moir {Trans. Edin. Ohstet. Soc, xxiii. pp. 15, 153, 1897-8) showed, it was being employed by Professor Hamilton at Edinburgh in the first quarter of the last century. Great care should be taken in sterilising the bougie (usually a large-sized rectal gum elastic one) by soaking it for twenty-four hours in a solution of per- chloride of mercury (1 in 1000), and washing off the chemical in lysol solution just before use. Preliminary douching of the vagina should also be carried out for two or three days, and this itself is sometimes sufficient to bring on labour. The bougie is introduced either with or without an anaesthetic : in the former case it can be done with less risk of rupturing the membranes and with more hope of maintaining asepsis, but there is the risk that the sickness which may follow the chloro- form will drive out the bougie or burst the membranes. If haemorrhage come on during the introduction of the bougie (fi'om separation of the placenta), it must be withdrawn and the cervix and vagina tightly packed with gauze. This accident twice happened to the writer and was rather alarming at the time ; but packing stopped it, and in each case the labour followed promptly within twenty-four hours. The bougie, to be effectual, must be pushed well into the interior of the uterus; in fact, the outer end of it should be just within the vulva. It may be left m sitzi, for forty-eight hours, and by that time labour pains are often in progress. It is here, however, that the disadvantage of the bougie method is often unhappily evident, for sometimes the uterus retracts very slug- gishly to mechanical stimulation, and it becomes risky to leave the rod long inside the organ even when vaginal douches are being regularly given. For this reason, some obstetricians pre- fer the bag method, at any rate for multiparas, as it is more certain to excite uterine contrac- tions {e.g. Robecchi in Tibone's clinique, Gior. d. r. Accad. di med. di Torino, 4 s., ix. p. 806, 1903) ; but for primiparae the bougie is still to be preferred. Perhaps the plan pursued by Munro Kerr {Operative Midwifery, p. 447, 1908) is the best; the bougie is introduced, and if, at the end of forty-eight hours, labour is not in progress, it is taken out and a dilating bag is put in. Even in a primipara this can usually be done, for the presence of the bougie has made the cervix dilatable. The other favourite procedure for inducing premature labour is the hydrostatic dilating bag, such as Champetier de Ribes's or Barnes's or Miiller's. Pomeroy's bag {Trans. Amer. Gynec. Soc, xxxi. p. 127, 1906) is rather too complicated. The operation is then sometimes known as metreurysis or hystreurysis, the dilator being called a metreurynter. The bag is introduced in a collapsed state into the cer- vical canal. This may usually be done at once in a multipara ; but in the case of a primipara preliminary dilatation is required, and hence many have abandoned the use of the hydro- static dilator altogether in first labours. Cham- petier de Ribes's bag is generally allowed to be better than Barnes's, but it requires to be passed in by means of a special pair of forceps. When the bag is well in position in the cervix and lower uterine segment, its action may be assisted by making traction occasionally on it or by attaching to it by means of a string a weight which hangs over the end of the bed (Robecchi, loc. cit.). It is well to test before- hand how much fluid is needed to distend the bag, else it may l)urst in utero, always an awk- ward accident. Labour usually comes on in about fifteen or eighteen hours ; and it is good practice to allow the natural efforts to expel the bag, thus thoroughly preparing the canals for the passage of the infant. The greatest inconvenience caused by the bag is its tendency