HEREDITY 185 clear, therefore, why there are "pure " gametes and "impure" gametes: to the former group belong the 2 D and 2 R, whilst to the latter belong the 4 D(R); the former always breed true among themselves, whilst the latter split up again in the proportion of 3 D to 1 R, shortness (the recessive unit character) re- appearing over and over again in succeeding generations, and always in the proportion of one to three. It is unnecessary, in a short article such as this, to enter into the elaborations of the Mendelian theory; they are most interesting, but very complicated, and are in danger of being made too subtle. It is only necessary to study the results of breeding pure types with impure dominants in order to demonstrate this complexity and bring into play this subtlety. Suffice it to say that Mendel's Law has received confirmation in several plants other than the common pea, in maize, for instance, in wheat and barley, in stocks, in nettles, and in mirabilis jalapa; and it has been extended to some animals, e.ff. mice, rabbits, snails, poultry, and cattle. In mice, for instance, the coloured coat would appear to be a dominant, and the albino a recessive character. These discoveries open up a wide and most attractive field for experimentation and speculation, and suggest that there may be characters in the human subject which will be found susceptible to arrangement as domin- ants and recessives. It must be admitted, however, that no secure evidence of Mendelian phenomena in man have yet been noted: for the white negro is a rara avis, and he ought to be common if Mendelism be true of the human subject; and the suggestion that the presence of congenital cataract may be a dominant character seems to be highly para- doxical. It will take many years, however, before the far-reaching consequences of Mendel's Law have been investigated, and it is more than likely that results of considerable practical importance may flow from its application in various novel directions {e.g. in the elucidation of the differentiation of sex, as tentatively worked out by Berry Hart). LITERATURE.—The already copious literature of this subject will be found in Bateson's Mendel's Principles of Heredity (1909), and in J. Arthdb Thomson's Heredity (1908). The following articles may be consulted hy the medical reader :—Batkson, Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1906, pp. 61, 106 ; i. for 1908, pp. 1132, 1195, 1252 ; Mudge, Brit. Med. Joiirn., ii. for 1908, p. 523 ; Berry Hart, Trans. Edin. Obstet. Soc, vol. for 1908-9 ; Proc. Boy. Soc. Edin., xxix. p. 607, 1909 ; Phases of Evolution and Heredity, London, 1910. Galton and Pearson's Work.—The law of Mendel brings mathematics into the sphere of biology and heredity; but in the work of Sir Francis Galton and Karl Pearson mathe- matics dominates biology to such an extent as to cause the latter to pass almost entirely out of sight. If the reader will consult Pearson's Grammar of Science (1900), or take into his hand any part of the journal Biometrika, he will be persuaded that the above statement is no great exaggeration. Sir Francis Galton's Law of Filial Regression or Correlation, that tendency towards mediocrity, towards sustain- ing the same average level from generation to generation, is expressible as a formula; whilst the law of Ancestral Inheritance can hardl}' be expressed in any other way. The latter law, as stated by Galton, is as follows : " The two parents between them contribute on the average one half of each inherited faculty, each of them contributing one quarter of it. The four grandparents contribute between them one quarter, or each of them one-sixteenth ; and so on, the sum of the series i + | + ^ + yV -1- .... being equal to 1, as it should be. It is a property of this infinite series that each term is equal to the sum of all those that follow : thus i = i-Fi + TV+ • • • i==i + TV+ , and so on." Pearson states the law more com- pletely in mathematical form when he says, "Each parent contributes on an average one quarter or (-5)", each grandparent one-sixteenth or ('5)^, and so on; the occupier of each ancestral place in the nth. degree, whatever be the value of n, contributes (•5)"" of the heritage." The medical man who may wish to study these matters without entering far into problems of algebra and mathematics will find a clear exposition in Thomson's Heredity (pp. 309-335), already quoted from. It may be noted, however, that Mendel's law and that of Ancestral Inheritance do not harmonise. At the same time it is not wise to make too much of this or to argue from it that all Galton's and Pearson's results must go to the wall ; " for the Mendelian formulse," as Professor Thomson says, "apply to the progeny of known crosses or hybrids, while Galtonian formulae apply to intra-racial heredity." Herpes Zoster.—Whilst Herpes Zoster, where the lesion is in the ganglia on the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, causing a vesicular eruption on the body, neck, or ex- tremities, and in the Gasserian ganglion, caus- ing an eruption on the face in the distribution of the three divisions of the 5th nerve, is a well-recognised condition, a less well-known form is that caused by a lesion in the genicu- late ganglion of the 7th nerve. In this case one gets a vesicular eruption on the outer aspect of the auricle, associated with pain in the ear, deafness or noises in the ear. The auditory symptoms are due to the swollen geniculate ganglion, as it lies in the aqueduct of Fallopius, pressing on the adjacent auditory nerve. As there is often considerable swelling of the outer ear, and after the vesicles burst the ear is covered with crusts, the true cause