CERVICAL RIBS 100 until much later—fifty in one of Thorburn's cases. Symptoms rarely occur during child- hood ; Keen collected only six cases in which they began before the fourteenth year. When symptoms appear for the first time in advanced life, their onset is apparently due to senile changes (rigidity) in the arteries. Although cervical ribs are almost always bilateral, the symptoms which they produce are often limited to one side (nine out of thirteen in Thorburn's cases). The right arm is more commonly affected than the left, probably because it is moi'e freely used. The onset of the symptoms is sometimes preceded by a strain or wrench. For some reason cervical ribs more frequently give rise to symptoms in women than in men. Affection of the Subclavian Artery is shown by weakening of the radial pulsations, which become stronger when the arm is raised so as to remove the bend in the vessel where it crosses the rib. From the abnormally high position of the vessel, aneurism in the neck may be simulated. Thrombosis of the artery and gangrene of the finger-tips may occur. The subclavian vein is seldom compressed ; oedema of the hand has, however, been observed. Affections of the Nerves is more im- portant ; neuralgia or paralysis may be caused. In neuralgic cases the pain has a characteristic distribution, corresponding with the area sup- plied by the first dorsal or first dorsal and eighth cervical roots. It is most marked along the ulnar border of the forearm, extending from above the elbow to the wrist or fingers. It is of a tingling character, and is associated with a sensation of coldness. Pressure above the clavicle may aggravate it. In paralytic cases there is generally a history of antecedent neuralgia. The motor symptoms are due to irritation of, and pressure on, the brachial plexus, and differ in degree in different cases. The intrinsic muscles of the hand are partially or completely paralysed, and some or all of them are wasted; adduction and abduc- tion of the fingers and thumb are impaired ; cramps, clonic twitchings, and spasms may occur. There is often aniesthesia or hyperses- thesia of the skin of the inner aspect of the arm and the ulnar half of the hand. The paralysis involves the domain of the first dorsal or first dorsal and eighth cervical roots, and, as in other affections of the brachial plexus, dissociated disturbances of sensation may occur. In rare instances the cervical sympathetic is involved, perhaps from pressure, perhaps, as Keen suggests, from associated syringomyelia ; inequality of the pupils and palpebral fissures and unilateral sweating result. Scoliosis is a not uncommon associated symptom (twenty-two out of sixty-one cases). In some cases the association is merely accidental, in others (con- genital scoliosis) the curvature is due to inequalities in the sizes of the vertebrae, or intercalated vertebrae. Torticollis may also be met with. Diagnosis. — Hitherto the true nature of these cases has frequently been overlooked, but the diagnosis is not difficult if the possibility of cervical ribs be borne in mind. Unless the rib is palpable, a diagnosis can only be made by X-rays. Sometimes, even when the rib is long, it may, from its position and angle, be hidden by a transverse process and cast no shadow. The association of vascular with nervous symptoms is of diagnostic importance, particularly the fact that the pulse becomes stronger when the arm is raised. Cervical ribs have been mistaken for Raynaud's disease and writer's cramp; the condition has also been diagnosed as "brachial neuralgia," "sym- metrical palsy of the hands," or "radicular paralysis." Thorburn states that " uniradicular paralyses due to causes other than cervical ribs are very rare, and their true pathology is unknown." According to Keen, affection of the cervical sympathetic is presumptive evidence of an associated syringomyelia. Treatment.—The rib should be removed. The fact that paralysis may, and often does, supervene upon neuralgia warrants operation as soon as the condition is diagnosed. Thor- burn advises a vertical incision in the posterior triangle of the neck, the vessels and nerves being displaced forwards. The suprascapular nerve must be carefully guarded from injury. After clearing the rib, it, with its periosteum, is cut through near the spine, and then drawn forwards. " If attached in front by ligaments only it comes up into the wound very readily, and can be excised with scissors, but if its anterior attachments be bony, its total removal becomes very difficult on account of its relation to the pleura. In such cases it may be cut away anteriorly with gouge forceps. In any event, the radial pulse should be watched, and enough of the anterior part of the rib should be removed to make it certain that all pressure is removed from the artery" (Thorburn). Certain definite dangers may be encountered during the operation: — (1) Paralysis (not always transient) of the brachial plexus from the stretching to which it is subjected. (2) Consecutive aneurism of the subclavian artery. (3) Injury to, or wound of, the pleura. The result of removal of the rib is very satis- factory ; even wasted muscles may recover. LITERATURE. — Thorburn, Manchester Medical Chronicle, vol. xiv., 1908.—Keen, Amer. Journ. Med. Sci., Feb. 1907.—Gardner, Oaz. des Hdpitaux de Paris, 25th May and 1st June, 1907 (General Review, with References). Chauffeur's Fracture.— Fracture of the lower end of the radius due to the firing back of motor car engines when an