ACCOUCHEMENT FORCE 20 of the supravaginal portion of the cervix and to the lower segment of the body of the uterus. If the operation is carried out in the later weeks of pregnancy it is generally recognised that some modification of the details is neces- sary. It is then necessary to incise the posterior wall of the uterus as well as the anterior. Thus Bar {Bev. gin. de din. et de tMrap., xxi. p. 769, 1907) makes an incision in the middle line in the posterior lip of the cervix, reaching the length of the vaginal cul-de-sac and extend- ing for 4 cm. on to the vaginal wall; the peritoneum can be stripped off the posterior aspect of the cervix through this incision. Diihrssen makes a vertical incision in the posterior lip of the cervix and a transverse one in the posterior vaginal vault. Then the anterior incision is made. By this means both the anterior and posterior aspects of the lower uterine segment are exposed. Regnoli (Foliclin., xi. sez. chir., p. 49, 1904) makes the posterior incision, and limits the anterior one to the cervix. Doderlein [Zenfralhl. f. GynilL, xxxi. p. 1027, 1908) does not divide the vaginal fornix from the cervix and push up the bladder ; he simply divides the uterine wall higher and higher, applies his forceps further and further up, and draws the uterus more and more down- wards ; the bladder and other structures separate themselves. The other stages of the operation are much the same as when the section is performed earlier; but it has been found, more especially if the patient be a primipara, that it is very helpful to do a preliminary episiotomy to give more room in the vagina for manipulation. Diihrssen makes a right-sided vaginal and perineal incision, and if the levator ani be divided he is thus able to pass his whole fist into the vaginal canal and vault, pull the cervix down into view, and limit the haemorrhage. After the extraction of the child and placenta, the posterior incision is closed first, preferably by through-and-through catgut sutures tied on the cervical mucous membrane; then the vagina is closed by a continuous catgut suture tied on the vaginal mucous membrane; next the anterior wound is sutured; and finally the perineal wound is secured. Of course the operation of vaginal Cesarean section is not without its risks. The peritoneum may be opened into or the bladder may be wounded by extension of the incisions during extraction of the child, although some operators have never met with this (Bumm). There is danger of haemorrhage from the incisions and from the placental site; but the head of the child acts as a plug during the operation, and the uterus can be packed with gauze afterwards. The downward traction which can be made upon the cervix also helps to check the bleeding. The danger of rupture of the uterus in subsequent labours would seem to be exaggerated. It may be stated, in conclusion, that vaginal Csesarean section, in the hands of specialists, offers a I'apid and reasonably safe method of opening into and emptying the uterus at any date in pregnancy, whatever be the state of the cervix; it may be anticipated that it will continue to be employed in a limited number of cases which can other- wise hardly be satisfactorily dealt with. Acetomorphine. See Drugs, Re- cent (Heroin). Achilles Jerk. Reflexes. Acholuric Jaundice. See Jaun- dice. Achylia Gastrica.—A condition of permanent anacidity of the stomach described by Einhorn, in which the secretion of hydro- chloric acid is in abeyance : according to some writers pepsin is also absent. The symptoms, are variable ; lienteric diarrhoea is the most characteristic. Gastric achylia occurs in many cases of carcinoma : apart from this, it is chiefly a disease of the senile period, and is probably often a complication of some underlying con- dition-—cirrhosis, etc. The diagnosis of gastric- achylia rests on an examination of the stomach contents. 1. During fasting the stomach is. empty, and after an Ewald's test breakfast only a little undigested bread can be recovered—i.e.. there is no stagnation of food in the stomach. 2. Gastric contents neutral, or faintly acid ; no pepsin. 3. No gastric mucus after Ewald's test breakfast. 4. The gastric mucosa is fragile, and bleeds readily when a tube is passed. LITERATURE.—LiEFSCHUTZ, Arch. f. Verdau- tmgsL, 27th October 1906. "Acid Control." See Digestion. (Movements of Alimentary Tract). Acidosis. Definition Pathological Chemistry Clinical Features Types .... Therapeutics . Literature . 20- 21 21 22- 2a 24 The condition known as acid intoxication, or acidosis, has assumed considerable importance during the past few years. While there is a, belief, apparently well founded, that acid intoxication exists under a variety of different circumstances, and that it is at the root of several clinical groups of symptoms, it must be admitted that the only condition which has been definitely proved to be due to acidosis is diabetic coma. Next in importance and prob- ability as clinical manifestations of acidosis, come the cyclic vomiting of children and delayed chloroform poisoning, while it is also possible that some forms of infantile atrophy are