LABOUR, MANAGEMENT OF 229 one of the mercuric salts, when there are indi- cations that the mucous membrane of the canal is in an unhealthy state (free purulent dis- charge), when an operation of greater magni- tude than forceps application at the outlet is to be employed, or has been employed, and when the placenta or membranes have had to be removed with the hand thrust deeply into the utero-vaginal canal, is regarded by many obste- tricians as not only permissible but desirable. The abolition of routine preliminary douching is largely due to the result of such carefully conducted comparative methods of investigation as were instituted by K. Baisch [Arch.f. Gynaeh., Ixxix. p. 325, 1906); from these observations it emerged that rises of temperature were more common in douched than in undouched patients, even when rubber gloves had been employed in giving the douches, and even after careful vulvar cleansing had been carried out. One is led to the conclusion that prophylactic douching in normal cases is hai'mful even when gloves are worn and the vulvar toilette is not omitted, and that, therefore, it is still more dangerous when these precautions are not taken. In the exceptional circumstances, above referred to, the douche, however, may, in the opinion of many, be wisely employed, not, of course, with- out the other precautions (careful handwashing and vulvar cleansing). The vaginal and intra- uterine hot douche (temperature 118° F.) is also of considerable value in the checking of post- partum hsemorrhage. Vulvar cleansing is now regarded as the important thing; but it is unnecessary to shave the hair, although it may be well to clip it short if it be very long (Herman, Brit. Med. Joivrn., i. for 1906, p. 1-516). The cleansing of the obstetricians hands, all are agreed, must be carefully and repeatedly carried out during the progress of a confinement case. It is now admitted that it is impossible to sterilise the hands, but thorough cleansing of them gives a degree of security which is very nearly complete, and it is matter for congratula- tion that this thorough cleansing can be cai'ried out without elaborate apparatus. With hot water, soap, and a clean nail-brush much can be accomplished, if the obstetrician will only give time enough to the scrubbing of the hands and nails, if he will rinse frequently and use running water, and if he will repeat these cleansing operations each time that he examines his patient. A midwifery case differs from even a prolonged surgical operation in the fact that there are times during its progress when, of necessity, the hands of the obstetrician must, by touching unsterilised things, become techni- cally unclean again. It is also to be borne in mind that, as the labour lengthens, and as the amount of interference required increases, the attendant ought to increase the care he bestows on the disinfection of his hands ; too often, un- fortunately, the very opposite plan is pursued, and with continued delay, and more particularly with rapidly arising danger, precautionary cleans- ing is apt to be perfunctorily performed, or omitted altogether. Perhaps the most important modification in the actual technique of hand- washing which has been introduced of recent years, is the employment of alcohol for the removal of fatty matter as well as for its anti- septic and skin - hardening action (Tjaden, Zeitsch. f. Geburtsh. u. Gyndk., xxxviii. p. 351, 1898 ; von Herlf, Milnch. med. Wochensch., lii. pp. 1132, 1203, 1905 ; etc.). Many now cleanse the hands by fii'st washing thoroughly with hot water and soap, using the nail-brush persistently, and changing the water frequently; the hands are then rubbed with turpentine and washed in methylated spirit; finally they are soaked in, and washed with, a solution of perchloride of or biniodide of mercury. It is useful to dip the hands in a solution of lysol just before they are introduced into the patient's vagina, for the lysol, by its oily character, aids their passage and does away with the necessity for the use of such unguents as vaseline (which, in the past, were often a source of danger rather than a means of security). Since (in 1847) Sir James Young Simpson introduced ancesthesia into the management of labour, normal and abnormal, using, first, ether, and, later, chloroform, more than sixty- four years have passed away. After the first prolonged and stormy opposition to the use of anaesthetics in labour had been met, there followed a period of calm acquiescence in the practice on the part of the profession, and it is only within the past few years that the routine employment of chloroform has been challenged anew. A good deal of what has been written regarding the dangei' of this anesthetic in mid- wifery practice has been founded on experience gained in surgical practice, but, as has been pointed out many times, surgical and obstetrical anaesthesia can hardly be fairly compared. Careful scrutiny of statistics and of the views of obstetricians shows that chloroform in mid- wifery practice is singularly free from risks, and while this immunity from danger has been variously explained as due to the elimination of emotion, the absence of the fear of operative consequences, the presence of acute pain, etc., the true explanation would seem to be the threefold one given by Alex. Ballantyne {Trans. Editi. Obstet. Soc, xxii. p. 13, 1896-7). Accord ing to this obstetrician the increase of vascular tension in pregnancy, the increase in the total mass of blood in the system, and the eccentric hypertrophy of the heart, all tend to meet and overcome the dangers of chloroform anajsthesia, these dangers being chiefly paralysis of the vasomotor and respiratory centres and of the cardiac ganglia. Chloroform, in pregnancy, is acting upon a system specially prepared to resist its dangerous effects and to utilise its