72 BLOOD-PRESSURE exercise ; it falls after exercise. Cold contracts the peripheral vessels and raises the pressure; warmth has the opposite effect. After a meal the pressure first rises, then falls; during sleep it falls, then rises. A supernormal pressure is much more common than a subnormal pressure. It seems as though the normal degree of pressure is pretty near the minimum at which life can be constantly sustained, and every effort is made to uphold it (Hutchison). High arterial pressure occurs as a result of senility. After middle life the systolic pres- sure in particular tends to rise; the diastolic rises more gradually, or may for a time remain normal. The chief conditions in which per- sistent supernormal arterial pressure is met with are arterio-sclerosis and chronic interstitial nephritis. The pressure is also raised in many forms of neurasthenia, in melancholia, in in- somnia, in cerebral hemorrhage, in angina pectoris, in polycythsemia, and in the crisis of locomotor ataxia. Low arterial pressure is found in collapse, in anaemia, in Addison's disease, in diphtheria, in typhoid, and in exhausting diseases gener- ally. In pneumonia a sudden rise before the crisis presages a complication; a sudden fall, heart failure (G. A. Gibson). Aortic incompe- tence is characterised by a high systolic and a low diastolic pressure. In typhoid fever the blood-pressure is usually low—below 100—and if it remains fairly steady during the course of the disease, Barach {New York Med. Journ., p. 348, 1907) looks on the prospects of the patient as favourable. A steady fall, on the other hand, is a bad sign. Equally ominous is a sudden rise, which is said by Huchard (liev. de viM., p. 609, 1907) to precede haemorrhage or perforation. When perforation actually occurs there is a rise in the blood-pressure to 160 or 200 mm. Hg. (Shephard, Lanret, i. p. 1293, 1907). The whole subject of arterial pressure, and the inferences to be drawn from sphygmomano- metric observations, is an extremely difficult one. The blood-pressure depends on many factors: the force and output of the left ventricle ; the peripheral resistance; the elas- ticity of the arteries ; and the volume of blood in the circulation. Variations in any of these will cause alterations in the pressure. The difficulties introduced by thickening of the walls of the vessels, and by arterial hypertonus, are discussed under Arterio- sclerosis and Arterial Hypertonus, and will not be further mentioned here, except to say that great difference of opinion exists as to what part a thickened artery plays in vitiating the correctness of a high reading as a witness to the state of matters inside the artery. Midler sums up the main problem in the diagnosis of diseases of the circulation thus :— To discover a ready clinical means of estimat- ing changes in the volume of the heart-beat (Schlagvolumen), on the one hand, and changes in total sectional area of the vessels on the other. Unfortunately (he says), the compara- tively simple methods of sphygmomanometry do not furnish the necessary information. Strasburger has made an effort in this direc- tion. He assumes that the brachial pressure is identical with that of the aorta. It alters (a) with changes in the volume of blood expelled by the ventricular contractions, and (b) with contraction and expansion of the sectional area of the peripheral vessels. Strasburger further takes the pulse amplitude (Pulsdruck), defined above as the difference between the maximum and minimum pressures, as a measure of the volume of blood expelled by each ventricular contraction — factor (a) above. When the volume varies, so does the pulse amplitude; when it remains constant the pulse amplitude does the same. The sectional area of the vessels —factor (b) above—is measured by the mini- mum blood-pressure. The relation of the two factors is expressed as the hlood-'presmre quotient Pulse amplitude _^ rpi P. A. = 25-30 _ Diastolic pressure ^" D. P. = 88-100 ~ about "3 on the average. On this basis he formulates the following general state- ments :— 1. When the systolic pressure alters and the quotient remains the same there is alteration in the work of the heart. S. P. -(- = increased work ; S. P. - = diminished work. 2. When both the systolic pressure and the quotient vary equally in opposite directions, there is alteration in the vascular tone. S. P. + and Q. - = increased tone; S. P. - and Q. -f = lowered tone. 3. When both the systolic pressure and the quotient vary in the same direction or unequally in opposite directions both the work of the heart and the tone of the vessels are altered. A very important practical point in con- nection with supernormal arterial pressure is made by Janeway, namely, that high arterial pressure is often a necessary evil, being a compensatory effort of the organism. In some patients " an average level of arterial pressure far above the normal is absolutely necessary to insure the r equisite speed of capillary blood- flow. For them the optimum pressure for the maintenance of a normal circulation may become 200 mm. or more, instead of 100 to 145 mm. .... a systolic pressure of 200 mm.—yes, even 250 mm. and over—is not incompatible with a number of years of comparative com- fort and activity, paiticularly if the response to treatment is favourable, and the patient co-operates heartily." Treatment of Supernormal Pressure.— The following are the main points as laid down by Oliver:—1. Reduce the bulk of the meals