ANESTHESIA AND ANESTHETICS 32 Technique.—If novocaine be the local anaes- thetic to be used, this may be obtained either in powder or tablet form. In the case of the sur- geon who is practising local anaesthesia at all frequently, it is advised that he obtain it in the form of a powder, and make up his own stock solutions from that. The stock solutions neces- sary are (I) a 1 per cent, solution of novocaine, made by dissolving 1 gram of the powder in 100 c.c. of normal saline solution ; (2) a solution of sterile physiological salt solution, made by dissolving '9 gram of sodium chloride in 100 c.c. of distilled water; (3) a bottle of adrenalin chloride (I in 1000). The two former solutions should be prepared and preserved in a flask stoppered with sterile cotton-wool. Immedi- ately prior to the performance of the operation the anaesthetic solution is made up by mixing equal parts of 1 per cent, novocaine and salt solution, and to this four or five drops of the adrenalin chloride should be added. It will be found that for most purposes the | per cent, solution prepared is eminently satisfactory, but where a wide area has to be infiltrated a ^ or ^ per cent, solution may be used with perfect success. The amount which may be infiltrated with safety when the drug is prepared in the dilute forms described is really so great that there is no fear of inducing toxic phenomena. It is essential that, if ansesthesia is to be in- duced with the least amount of discomfort to the patient and annoyance to the surgeon, a satisfactory syringe should be used. There are many of these in the market, and with most of them, if care is taken to keep them in proper working order, no trouble will be found in their use. If care is taken of it, the " Record" syringe is very useful, or an " all metal" one may be employed. The syringe should be fitted so as to carry Schimmel's aseptic needles, and have a piece of bent tubing to allow of the point of the needle being introduced into the tissues obliquely. Hypodermic injection is found to give the most satisfactory results, and this is carried out in a manner that will render the subcutaneous tissue extremely oedematous. After the fluid has been introduced the surgeon should allow at least ten minutes before com- mencing his operation, so that the anaesthesia may be absolute. The disadvantages attending the use of local anaesthesia are few. The addition of adrenalin, although it confers a markedly increased degree of potency to the drug, and renders the anaes- thesia much more complete, has this disadvan- tage, that, when its action has passed away, and the contracted vessels dilate, slight haemorrhage may occur. In most situations this is a matter of trifling moment, but occasionally, when operat- ing in loose cellular tissue, such as the scrotum, troublesome bleeding may ensue. The use of the local anaesthetic has also this disadvantage, that it must of necessity to a certain extent lower the vitality of the tissue, and by this means possibly lead to the further dissemina- tion of a septic focus. Venous Anivdhesia.—This form of anaesthesia has only recently been introduced by Professor Bier, of Berlin. He was led to devise the method by observing how small an amount of the drug was required to induce very wide- spread anaesthesia when it was introduced into the lumber sac, in contrast to the large amount necessary to penetrate a nerve trunk by hypo- dermic injection. It appeared to him that the natural channel in which the anaesthetic should be conveyed to the nerve was the blood-stream, and in order to do this he has devised a tech- nique whereby the area to be operated on is emptied of blood. A vein is exposed, and into it the anaesthetic fluid is introduced. The method is carried out as follows:—The region to be operated on is rendered bloodless by the application of an Esmarch's bandage from below upwards. A sterile, soft, thin rubber bandage is then wound round the upper and lower limit of this bloodless area, a vein is then selected, as, for example, the basilic, when the elbow joint is to be operated upon. This channel is opened into as near to the upper bandage as possible, and its proximal end ligatured. There is then transfused into the lower portion of the vein a solution of ^ per cent, novocaine, without the addition of adrenalin. The amount which can be introduced, according to Bier, is from 40 c.c. to 80 c.c, or (if a solution of one-half the strength is injected) from 100 c.c. to 150 c.c. A considerable amount of pressure may be re- quired to overcome the venous valves. The effect upon the part is, that it becomes blanched and swollen, and is rendered soon completely anaesthetic. The portion of the limb beyond the bandage is also rendered " indirectly" anifisthetic. The former anaesthesia is almost immediate in onset. When the operation is completed, it is found advisable to wash out a certain amount of the anaesthetic from the vessels, by allowing slight bleeding to occur. This form of anaesthesia has not yet stood the test of time, but it will probably prove to be of very considerable use in cases where such operations as excision of joints are being practised. Spinal Ance.4hesia. — The rapid perfection which this form of anaesthesia has reached is one of the triumphs of modern surgery. A method which will allow of such scenes being witnessed as a patient lying quietly on the operating-table, and discussing topics of popular interest with the surgeon who is engaged in removing his rectum, or prostate, must com- mand respect. "When the same patient is seen an hour later lying in bed and reading a news- paper, obviously suffering little if any pain, profound admiration for the practice responsible for such a state of affairs cannot be withheld.