25 ACROTERIC Sir Jonathan Hutchinson (Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1910, p. 1497) to denote the white marks found on animals' (e.g. horses') feet, the tip of the tail, the forehead, and the ears; these marks are believed by him to find their representatives in the human subject in such abnormalities as the piebald negro." " Acute Abdomen."—A general term indicating all the acute conditions developing in the abdomen and calling for immediate (emer- gency) operation. Among such are acute appendicitis, acute intussusception, general peritonitis, strangulated hernia, twisting of the pedicle of an ovarian cyst, etc. See Spencer, W. G., Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1909, pp. 1789- 1792 ; and Carmichael, E. S., International Clinics, s. 20, vol. iv. p. 98, 1910. Adams-Stokes' Disease or Syn- drome.—Slow heart's action (bradycardia) associated with fainting or epileptoid attacks, and occurring as a complication of heart-block. See Heart, Diseases of (Irregular Action). Add i ment.—A term used in bacteriology, synonymous with complement. See Immunity. Adenomyoma. — A myoma (or "fibroid") containing scattered gland tubules, which have been regarded as cell-rests of parts of the Wolffian body (paroophoron) or duct, but they may be simply inclusions of uterine glandular tissue in the developing myoma (Adami, Pathology, i. pp. 748, 749, 1910). Adrenal Glands.—Hutchison (Quar- terly Journ. of Med., Oct. 1907) directs attention to the existence of a definite clinical syndrome occasionally met with in children, viz. supra- renal sarcoma with metastases to the skull. He gives the following epitome of the symptoms, based on ten cases :—The ages of the patients varied from nine months to nine years. In most cases the first thing noticed was swelling of the bones of the skull, with proptosis, and sometimes ecchymosis of the eyelids. Ansemia is a striking feature, the blood picture being that of secondary anaemia, without leucocy- tosis. An abdominal tumour in one or other loin was felt in five cases. The progress of the disease is rapid—one to six months—and is marked by advancing exhaustion and anaemia, signs of increased intracranial pressure, optic neuritis, and blindness. The tumours of the skull increase in size, fill up the temporal fossae, and give a very characteristic appearance. Post mortem, there was found in all cases a sarcoma of one or other suprarenal with metastases to the skull bones, ribs, and vertebrae, but not, as a rule, in the long bones, and only exceptionally in the viscera. The disease simulates scorbutus with orbital haemorrhage, and chloroma (q.v.). In either case the differential diagnosis is easy —failure of antiscorbutic diet, and absence of lymphocytosis. While the condition is usually described as a sarcoma, it is possible that some cases are really malignant hypernephromata, which are more closely allied to carcinomata. Precocious obesity, with premature develop- ment of the sexual organs, has been described by Bulloch and Sequeira, Guthrie, and others, as an accompaniment of hypernephroma (Trans. Path. Soc. Land., 1905; Rep. Soc. Study Dis. in Children, vol. vi. 1906; vol. vii. 1907). Tilerton and Wolbach (Amer. Journ. Med. ScL, June 1908) divide cases of suprarenal sarcoma into four categories:—(1) Those with meta- stases to the skull (Hutchison's type). (2) Simultaneous of liver and adrenals. (3) Those associated with precocious maturity. (4) Those not falling under any of the preceding heads. See also Frew, Quart. Journ. Med., Jan. 1911. Adrenalin.—The extract of the supra- renal gland ; a proprietary preparation. Adrenin.—The extract of the medulla of the adrenal gland (Schafer). Aeropathy.—A comprehensive term (Gr. a.y]P, the air, ivado';, suffering) suggested (by Seward Erdman, Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc., xlix. p. 1665, 1907) for the various symptoms due to greatly altered barometric pressure ; it includes, therefore, caisson disease, balloon sickness, divers' paralysis, compressed air illness, and " bends." Agglutinogens. See Immunity (Ag- glutination). AggreSSinS.—A term used in bac- teriology to signify bodies cr substances, not toxines proper, which are excreted or dis- charged from virulent microbes, which have an inhibitive action upon the cells of the organism, and which either neutralise the action of the opsonins or directly repel the body cells ; they have been regarded as new undescribed sub- stances, or as free bacterial receptors, and it has been suggested that they are to the bacterial organism what the opsonins are to the animal (Adami, Pathology, i. p. 557, 1910). Air Hunger. See Kcidosiq (Clinical). Alan in.—Amino-propionic acid (C,H~ NO,). " Albulactin."—A soluble salt of lact- albumen which is intended to be added to diluted cows' milk (for infants' use) in order to make its protein constituents similar to those in human milk, i.e. about equal amounts of casein and albumen. The British Medical Journal report (vol. i. for 1910, p. 1242) states that it is a fine dry powder, containing 12-71 per cent, of nitrogen and 5-22 per cent, of mineral constitu- ents, and that on the addition of acid to a solu- tion of it no clots are formed, but the albumen is precipitated in finely divided form. It is to