141 ECTOPIC PREGNANCY ("epovarial" implantation of Schickele) ; in the specimen described by Munro Kerr the ovum was embedded in ovarian tissue outside the Graafian follicle (corpus luteum) ; and in that of Kelly and M'llroy the pregnancy had occurred in a Graafian follicle, but was found separated from it by a layer of connective tissue and fibrin. It is evident, therefore, that an ovarian gestation may have its seat in a Graafian follicle or in a corpus luteum, in ovarian tissue outside either, or on the surface of the ovary. In other details there are also differences. The gestation sac may have been converted into a mole (Micholitsch, loc. cit.; Gilford, loc. cit.), or it may show amnion and chorion and an embryo (Freund, Deutsche med. Wochensch., xxx. p. 1670, 1904), or a chorion containing an embryo (Freund and Thome, Virchow's Arch. f. Path. Anat., clxxxiii. p. 54, 1906). The villi of the chorion have been found showing both syncytium and Langhans's layer of cells. The presence of decidual cells or of lutein in the immediate neighbourhood of the gestation is far from constant. Webster (loc. cit., 1904), Herrenschmidt and Rigollot- Simonnot {^Ann. de gynec. et d'ohstet., 2 s., iii. p. 695, 1906), and van Tussenbroek (loc. cit.) have described decidual cells or large cells closely resembling them ; but Gottschalk {Zeitsch. f. Geburtsh. u. Gyndk., xlviii. p. 360, 1903), Hewetson and Lloyd {loc. cit.), and Kelly and M'llroy {loc. cit.) found no decidual elements, and Freund {loc. cit.) saw neither decidual cells nor a lutein layer. The absence of decidual cells in ovarian pregnancies has a bearing upon the pathogenesis of ectopic gestation in general ; for it seems to show (contrary to Webster's contention) that pregnancy can occur without a preceding decidual or genetic reaction. Indeed, ovarian pregnancies apparently prove that the impregnated ovum can be implanted upon a tissue which is not Miillerian in origin, although it has been argued by Webster {loc. cit., 1904) that there may be an occasional extension of Miillerian tissue into the omslvj leading to the development (in pregnancy) of localised areas of decidua-like cells. Some of the recorded specimens seem, on the other hand, to support the \'iew that the ectopic gestation can be best implanted on vascular connective tissue (Kelly and M'llroy and Munro Kerr, loc. cit.)—a view which has been strongly advocated in the past but never fully established. It is very interest- ing to observe how closely the ovary resembles the uterus in the response it makes to the presence of an impregnated ovum in it, although it differs so completely in its histological char- acters. Clinically, an ovarian pregnancy can- not be diff'erentiated from the other forms of ectopic gestation. Early death of the embryo or the conversion of the gestation into a mole is probably the common result of pregnancy in this organ, and early rupture would seem to be the rule. Menge {Miinch. med. Wochensch., No. 49, p. 2452, 1907), however, has recorded a case in which a right-sided ovarian pregnancy went to the full term and was removed by abdominal section, the child in it being alive. Further, to make this remarkable case absol- utely unique, a living child had been expelled from the uterus, without causing rupture of the extra-uterine sac, just before the performance of the abdominal section ; the mother, Menge adds, was suckling both infants. In Munro Kerr's case, also, there was a coincident intra- uterine gestation ; the right ovary, containing a gestation sac of about five weeks, was removed by abdominal section on 13th January 1903, and on 19th August of the same year the patient was delivered of a full-time healthy child {Operative Midwifery, p. 545, 1908). Ovarian pregnancy, therefore, must now be regarded as one of the well proven varieties of ectopic gestation taking its place alongside of tubal and cornual pregnancy. As our know- ledge of this variety grows with the multiplica- tion of records and specimens, it is certain that its pathological possibilities will be more clearlj'^ appreciated, and it is possible that its clinical characters may be better defined. Diagnosis. It cannot be claimed that during the past few years any very remarkable advances have been made in the diagnosis of ectopic preg- nancy. Operative successes have indeed made us better acquainted with the varieties and comjilications of extra-uterine gestation, and the gynecologist is better able to deal with the conditions he may find when he has opened the abdomen; but, previous to operative interfer- ence, there nuist still be considerable doubt as to diagnosis. The recognition of the nature of the morbid state is not difficult when rupture of the tube into the peritoneum has occurred and is accompanied by great haemorrhage causing profound collapse ; we have, of course, to keep in mind the possibility of rupture of a gastric or duodenal ulcer, of a violent attack of appendicitis, and of torsion of the pedicle of an ovarian cyst or uterine fibroid. In such cases, the general surgeon will think first of intestinal states, and the gynecologist of tubal and uterine ones; but both will open the abdomen, and thereafter diagnosis is easy. More difficulty is met with in connection with early ectopic pregnancies in which the symptoms are slight and irregular, and in which such occurrences as tubal abortion, rupture between the layers of the broad ligament, or formation of a tubal mole are taking place. Irregularity in the symptomatology of the first months of preg- nancy, leading in many cases to the abandon- ment of the diagnosis of ordinary pregnancy which had been made by the patient or her