292 PITUITARY GLAND, SURGERY OF the vomer as far back as he can ; and so, finally, he gets to the sphenoidal cells. As stated above, he does temporary resection of the frontal sinus to gain space. On reaching the sella turcica he opens it in the middle line, but not too far forward for fear of injuring the carotid arteries and the optic chiasraa; he removes the tumour, drains the cavity, and packs the nasal cavity ; and last of all closes the skin incisions. Hochenegg's plan is similar, but certain devices are added to lessen the subsequent deformity, including the perform- ance of the excision of the gland through a very small opening {Aim. Surg., xlviii. p. 781, 1908). Indeed, the resulting deformity is a serious consideration; and Church, in his estimate of the different methods of doing hj^pophy- sectomy, warns operators about it; at the same time he regards the nasal route as the best; for, after all, a tumour of the pituitary body is practically extracranial. The Infranasal Extracranial Ojieration.— Partly to lessen deformity, and partly to prevent the risk of infection of the cerebral membranes through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, Kanavel was led to turn the nose upward. An entrance is made into the inferior part of the nasal cavity, the septum is cut along its inferior part and its attachment to the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, the middle turbinates are removed and the septum deflected to one side; in this way he gets a good view; then he locates the sphenoidal foramina, he bites away the intervening attachment of the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid and the vomer, and then he breaks into the anterior wall of the sphenoidal cells. Kanavel has practised this method upon nine cadavers, and is satisfied with its practicabilitj' and advantages. Mixter has successfully used Kanavel's method for a case of infantilism associated with tumour of the hypophysis (as revealed by the X-rays). The posterior nares were packed, and a U- shaped incision was made beneath the nose, the nasal processes were divided with a chisel and the nose turned upwards and held by a stitch through the septum and forehead, the mucous membrane was separated from the bony septum, which was cut away; with the use of retractors a good view was now got of the upper part of the vomer where it was attached to the sphenoid, and this was avulsed, opening the sphenoidal cells; the hsemorrhage was controlled by adrenalin gauze and pressure; a blunt instrument was thrust through the posterior wall of the sphenoidal cells, and this was followed by the escape of fluid from the cyst of the hypophysis; the opening was enlarged, the cyst cavity was swabbed out and packed with a cigarette wick brought out through the nostril, and the wound was closed, a plug being- put in the other nostril to keep the septum straight. Kanavel's operation certainly has the advantage of the greater width of the lower pai't of the nasal opening, and the fact that access to the spenoidal cells is got by removal of the vomer alone is also important. Oskar Hirsch removes the pituitary tumour by an endonasal method based upon Hajek's radical operation. There are several stages. Under cocaine he removes the middle turbinated bone at the first sitting; in a few days the anterior and posterior ethmoidal cells are taken away, exposing the sphenoidal cavity ; a few days later the anterior wall of the sphenoid is removed in toto, and this is followed at once (or in a few days) by opening the hypophyseal prominence and partially removing the hypo- physis. Hirsch occupied five weeks in carrying out these operative procedures (all under cocaine ana3sthesia), but he thinks they might be done in two or three weeks. Halstead's method is named oro-nasal; and two cases have been reported (one of which was a success, whilst death followed in the other). The details as summarised by Loch- head were as follow :—Under ether anaesthesia a high tracheotomy was performed, and a Trendelenburg balloon cannula inserted; the nasal cavities and pharynx were plugged with adrenalin gauze ; then chloroform was given; the upper lip was raised, and the mucous membrane incised parallel to the alveolar process, and five-sixths of an inch from the muco-cutaneous junction ; the soft tissues were freed and the nose gradually drawn up with retractors, the septum being divided Avith bone forceps, and displaced upwards and to the side ; the inferior turbinates, vomer, and ver- tical plate of the ethmoid were removed (the middle turbinates having been previously taken away); the anterior wall of the sphenoidal sinus was opened and the tumour removed with a blunt curette ; the cavity was flushed out and then packed with iodoform gauze ; and, finally, the septum was sutured in position, the mucous membrane of the mouth replaced and stitched, and the tracheotomy tube removed. From what has been said, it is obvious that none of the surgical plans for reaching the hypophysis cerebri is easy; the operation, further, carries grave risks with it; and whilst subsequent advances may reduce these risks, it is clear that hypophysectomy ought not to be undertaken except to save life or to preserve the most important functions. LITERATURE.—Paulksco, N. C, Joum. de med. int., xi. pp. 1.52, 165, 182, etc., 1907 ; Journ. de physiol. et de path, g^n., ix. p. 441, 1907.—Reford and C'DSH- ING, Johns Hopkins Hosp. Bull., xx. p. 105, 1909 ; Editorial, Lancet, i. for 1910, p. 381.—Cushing, Amer. Journ. Med. Sc., xxxix. p. 473, 1910 ; Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc., liii. p. 249, 1909.—Delille, L'Hypophyse et la Medication Hypophysaire, Paris, 1909.—Blair Bell and P. Hick, Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1909, pp. 517, 592, 6^f>, 716, 717 ; ii. for 1909, pp. 1409, 1609.—Rowell, G., Brit. Med. Jonrn., n. for 1910, p. 757.—LOCKHAET