TRACHOMA BODIES 372 Giemsa stain reveals them; they are also known as Prowazek-Greef bodies. Trachyochromatic Eryth oo- blasts.— Nucleated red blood corpuscles, known as normoblasts, similar in size, shape, and colour to the normocytes but differing from them in having a nucleus and in not uniting in rouleaux ; they are not normally present in the blood after birth. Treitz's Muscle. — The musculus suspensorius duodeni. See P. T. Crj^mble, Brit. Med. Jonrn., ii. for 1910, pp. 11.56-1159. Treponema Pallidum.—The spiro- chsete pallida of syphilis, q.v. Trexta.—Proprietary preparations, being concentrated tinctures with the alcohol so far as is practicable omitted. See Lancet, ii. for 1909, p. 788. Trichocephaliasis. — The morbid state (viz. severe antemia) resulting from the presence in the intestine of the parasitic nematode worm, the trichocephalus dispar. Triferfin.—An iron preparation (the paranucleinate), containing 22 per cent, of iron and 2'5 per cent, of organically combined phosphorus; it is insoluble in water but soluble in alkalies ; its absorption begins when it reaches the small intestine; dose, 5 grains thrice daily. Triferrol.—A solution of triferrin (para- nucleinate of iron). Trigemin. — A compound of butyl- chloral and pyramidon, resembling pyramidon in its action, and recommended as an analgesic and hypnotic. TrikreSOl.—A purified coal-tar disinfect- ant. For description, tests, etc., see Lancet, ii. for 1909, p. 1529. Trimethyixanthine.—Caffeine. See PURINS. Trommer's Elixir.—A proprietary preparation containing the active enzymes of malt, glycero-phosphates, and the alkaloidal extractives of cod livers. See Lancet, i. for 1910, p. 65.3. Trommer's Malt Extract and Cod Liver Oil.—A proprietary food pre- paration, which contains, according to an analysis in the Jh-it. Med. Jour7i. (i. for 1910, p. 30), 29 9 per cent, of oil, 41-4 per cent, of reducing sugars calculated as maltose, and 2-4 per cent, of pi'otein. ^ Tropeolin Test.—A qualitative test for free hydrochloric acid in the gastric con- tents, the reagent being a saturated alcoholic solution of tropeolin oo. See Webster, Diag- nostic Methods, p. 62, 1909. Trophoblastoma. — See Uterus, Malignant Ti'irouRS. Tropical Broncho-oidiosis.— Broncho-oidiosis. Trypanosome Feven—See Sleep- ing Sickness. Trypan-Red.—'S'ee Sleeping Sickness {Treatment). Tsetse Fly.—See Sleeping Sickness [Cause). f Tuberculin, Beraneck's. — See Tuberculosis {Tubercidin Treatment). Tuberculin, New.—See Tubercu- losis {Tuberculin Treatment). Koch's New Tuberculin (1897) or T. R. Tuberculin Reaction.—Koch's sub cutaneous reaction (1890), Pirquet's cutaneous reaction, or Calmette's oculo - reaction. See Immunity {Tuberculin Tests). TuberculOCidin.—Klebs's Tuberculin, See Tuberculosis {Tuberculin Treatment). Tuberculosis {see also Campto- dactyly).—The literature of tuberculosis has assumed such enormous dimensions as to render it impossible in the available space to summarise even any single branch of it. All that is attempted here is to give some general account of the work which has been done in one or two directions—the relation of human and bovine tuberculosis, the question of the role played by alimentary infection, tuberculosis in infancy, and the treatment of the disease by tuberculin and other specific remedies. The diagnosis of tuberculosis by the various biological tests (oculo-reaction, etc.) is discussed in the section on Immunity (pp. 200-202), where the opsonic index is also referred to. The more general aspects of the tuberculosis problem—the admin- istrative control of phthisis, notification of the disease, sanatorium treatment, the control of the milk supply, the isolation of advanced and dangerou.sly infectious cases of phthisis in rate- supported hospitals, municipal sanatoria dis- pensaries, and colonies for convalescent cases— are, each and all of them, questions which must