111 DEMENTIA PRECOX are dream perceptions and occasionally halluci- nations, often of an unpleasant nature. (3) Consciousness remains clear, except in the excited and stuporose conditions. Attention, however, is aflt'ected, and sustained conversa- tion is impossible. On the other hand, it is not infrequent to see such patients observe stealthily what goes on around them, look curiously in at open doors, follow people at a distance, and manifest generally a sort of morbid curiosity in their surroundings. (4) Memory is relatively little disturbed, except after severe stupor. Even up to the time of the occurrence of deep dementia, patients retain all they have learned at school. (5) Mental processes undergo deterioration sooner or later. There is incoherence or repeti- tion of (often unmeaning) words—" verbigera- tion." The phenomenon known as "stereo- typism"—i.e. the recurrent use of phrases expressive of special ideas which dominate the mind for long periods—is almost always present as a symptom of a disordered mentation. (6) Judgment is always affected; patients are incapable of coi'rectly comprehending their position, and are helpless when placed under new or novel conditions. (7) Delusions are apt to arise on this basis. At first these tend to be sad ; later, grandiose. Owing to the mental weakness the delusions ultimately, as a general rule, become non- sensical, and at last terminate in forgetfulness. (8) The disposition changes. At first the patient is depressed, with outbursts of exalta- tion. Next follows a state of good-natured dementia, with dislike for recreation, apathy towards friends, and complete indifference towards bodily discomfort. (9) Conduct. There is loss of initiative and neglect of work ; suicidal, destructive, or self- mutilation impulses occur. The ordinary actions of life are traversed by moi'bid impulses, and mannerisms result. (10) This loss of volition and the dominance of impulses leads to a state of matters called " negativism," which shows itself by an obstin- ate opposition to all the ordinary practices of daily life—such as going to bed, eating, going to stool, etc. (11) The working capacity of the patients fails greatly. (12) Kraepelin also gives the following bodily symptoms :—Epileptiform spasms, choreiform movements, increased tendon reflexes, increased mechanical irritability of muscle and nerve, dilatation of the pupils, irregular cardiac action, increase of the sweat and saliva, diffuse enlarge- ment of the thyroid, disturbed sleep, variations in the body weight. Dementia prsecox is subdivided into three great groups, defined as follows :— (1) Hebephrenia {nl3ri, puberty; (pgvv, mind). —" By hebephrenia is meant all those forms of dementia prsecox in which a uniform, more or less profound, condition of mental weakness is developed under the accompanying influence of subacute—more seldom of acute—mental dis- turbances. " (2) Kataiotiia (yMrarsifu, I stretch tightly).— "Katatonia is essentially a peculiar disease process, progressing through stupor or excite- ment to a condition of dementia, with inter- current symptoms of negativism, stereotypism, and auto-suggestibility in the spheres of action and work." (3) Dementia paranoides {'Tra.ea, beyond ; i/osw, I know).—"Dementia paranoides includes a group of cases in which delusions and hallucina- tions are produced in an otherwise clear mind throughout many years of a steadily advancing mental weakness." Kraepelin admits that these distinctions are largely artificial, and that cases run into each other and overlap continually. The hebephrenic type begins in adolescence ; heredity is a factor in 70 per cent, of cases. Three-quarters of the patients pass into dementia; of the other quarter, two-thirds recover partially, and one- third completely. Katatonia begins a little later (at the average age of 24—the youngest of Hecht's cases was 15, the oldest 30). Brain workers are most prone; a bad heredity is given in 45 per cent. The special features of katatonia are muscular rigidity leading to the assumption of bizarre attitudes, constrained gait, puckering of the features, etc. Stupor and excitement alternate ; during the excitable stage, self-mutilation, coprophagia, and other filthy habits may be practised. Kraepelin holds that 60 per cent, of katatonics become dements, 27 per cent, practically so, and 13 per cent, recover. Dementia paranoides is a rapidly pro- gressive dementia, with delusions, illusions, and hallucinations. These may lead to suicide, infanticide, fire-raising, etc. The delusions are mostly of an exalted nature, and are not co- herent. The outlook is very unpromising; weak-mindedness sets in rapidly. Diagnosis.—Dementia precox has to be differentiated from circular insanity, from par- anoia, and from general paresis. Hecht lays stress on the negativism of dementia priecox as opposed to the simple inaction of circular in- sanity, on the absence of systematised delusion and the presence of feeble-mindedness as op- posed to paranoia, and on the absence of organic signs and the retention of memory until a late stage of the disease as against general paralysis. It would take more space than is available to mention the criticisms brought against Kraepelin's views. A summary of them is given by Hecht in the paper referred to, which also contains a large number of references to the literature of the subject. Deportation of Villi.—The separa