55 BIER'S. METHOD OF TREATMENT BY HYPEREMIA rapid improvement has been brought about, and a cure obtained without the necessity of an incision being made. These cases are, however, the exception, as in the majority, when seen twenty-four hours after the bandage was origin- ally applied, the patient is found to be in improved health, to have less pain in the wound, and to have slept well, but examination of the local lesion shows evidences of the accumulation of pus. When such is the case, it is treated by prompt evacuation, as was formerly practised. In practising Bier's treat- ment in cases of acute infection, it should never be used as an excuse to avoid the evacuation of pus by incision, when the presence of such is diagnosed. The incision which is necessary where Bier's treatment is being practised is a much smaller one. A puncture wound, to per- mit of evacuation, is often all that is required. It is also not necessary to introduce drainage- tubes. The use of Bier's treatment, where suppuration is present, causes a more abundant discharge to take place. This discharge, how- ever, will be found to cease earlier, and the amount of sloughing of tissue with which it is associated is much less. In the earlier cases that Bier treated, he found that, where cases of teno-synovitis and osteomyelitis were treated by passive congestion, sloughing of the tendons did not take place so readily, the amount of osseous necrosis was not so extensive, and the sequestrum was more rapidly exfoliated. The regions in which the bandage may be used are more especially the exti'emities, and particularly the lower parts of these. Whei'e the hip-joint or shoulder-joint are to be treated, however, this may be done by so arranging that the constriction ring is applied as high up as possible, tapes round the ti'unk being used for this purpose. Obstructive hyperemia has also been practised where the lesion is one involving the head and neck. To do this, the bandage should be wound loosely round the lower part of the neck, or, if desired, an elastic neck- band can be obtained, which is specially made for this purpose. The technique to be practised where it is de- sired to induce obstructive hyperemia in diseases of the testicle is as follows :—A piece of thin rubber drainage-tubing is applied around the base of the scrotum, with a piece of boracic lint intervening between it and the skin. Where the ends of the tubing cross, these are tied with a piece of tape or caught in a clip. To prevent slipping, it will be found necessary in some cases to fix this rubber ring by means of tapes passing round the pelvis. The cojitra-indications to the use of Bier's treatment are few. As has already been men- tioned, it was never the intention of the intro- ducer of this method to advise that it be used in preference to incision, where acute abscesses are formed. In cases where extensive lymph- angitis and lymphadenitis have taken place, it is usually found impossible to apply the constriction above the level of the site of the disease. In these cases the bandage, applied in the usual way, will often be found to give an excellent result, but in some of them pain from direct pressure is found to be produced. It is obvious that where septic thrombosis has occurred in a vein, the use of Bier's bandage would be attended with an increased danger of septic embolism. Obstructive Hyperemia by Means of Klapp's SucTroN-CuPS.—This method, which has been specially worked out by Klapp in Bier's clinique, has many advantages. It is a form of treatment which is now especially adopted in cases where Bier's bandage cannot be conveniently applied. There can now be obtained from the instrument-makers a large number of different cups, made to fit the different parts of the body. The principle of construction of these is identical. They all consist of a glass bell jar, with a broad everted rim, and a neck on the summit of the con- vexity, which is connected with a rubber tube. In the smaller jars a negative pressure is created by compressing the rubber bulb at the end of the tube. In the larger jars this suction is brought about by using an exhaust pump. The regions in which Klapp's suction-cups are found to be especially useful are the breast, the neck, and the groin. The use of the suction-cup possesses the advantage over the rubber bandage that, in cases where a sinus exists, leading to a buried septic focus, the negative pressure within the bell jar not only leads to an engorgement at the site of disease, but it also, by its suction, draws out the purulent content and cleans the abscess cavity. This is especially manifest in the treatment of cases of carbuncle, where the slough is separating. The method of application is extremely simple. There are, however, a few points that require to be attended to. A cup is selected which is of a size adapted to the area to be treated. The instrument has, of course, been previously care- fully sterilised. The rim is anointed with A'aseline before the jar is applied to the skin. If this detail is neglected, unnecessary pain may be caused the patient by the skin catching on the jar when suction is applied. The suction- cup is now held loosely applied, and suction obtained. The suction should be gradually induced. A mistake commonly made with this form of treatment is to use too great a degree of suction, and to develop the same too rapidly, with the result that pain is caused, and haemor- rhage occurs from the capillaries of the granu- lating wound. Sometimes, owing to the in- equality of the surface to which the cup is applied, it is found impossible to develop a partial vaccuum, as air gets in at the side of the bell. When this is the case, it is to be