PROPONAL 308 soluble in dilute alkalies, it may be given in sodium bicarbonate solution ; but it has to be remembered that its " toxic dose is only a very little greater than the effective hypnotic close." See Fortescue-Brickdale, Newer Remedies, pp. 165-166, 1910. Prostate, Surgery of.—At the time of issue of the Encyclopcjedia Medica prostat- ectomy as a means of treating prostatic hypei'- trophy was considered by many, if not most, surgeons, to be a questionable operation on account of the high mortality it involved. Now^adays it has come to be looked upon as an almost routine treatment for cases requiring frequent catheterisation with its attendant dangers of sepsis. The pioneer of suprapubic prostatectomy in this country was Freyer, and in his hands the mortality of the operation is as low as 3 per cent. In the operation of suprapubic prostatectomy it is advantageous to have the empty rectum distended by a bag filled with air or water so as to raise the floor of the bladder. The first steps in the opera- tion are the same as in suprapubic cystotomy. A sound is then passed into the bladder, and the dimensions of the prostate are examined by the finger. The capsule of the prostate is then incised with blunt scissors, and the gland is enucleated by separating it from the capsule with the finger. In some cases it can be removed entire ; in others piecemeal enucleation is required. If there is much oozing from the bleeding cavity a gauze packing may be required, ordinarily it is sufficient to drain the bladder through the suprapubic wound. One of the most important points in the after-treat- ment of cases of prostatectomy is the manage- ment of the drainage of the bladder. This may be most effectively carried out by using Cathcart's method. This is a modification of Sprengel's air-pump, the essential feature being the insertion of an S-tube into the pump in the lower drainage-tube. Other surgeons have employed a simple suprapubic drain, or a re- tained catheter, or a combination of both these. While the majority of English surgeons appear to prefer the suprapubic to the peri- neal operation, the latter has strong supporters among foreign operators. While it is less easy to perform, drainage is said to be more efficient, and the risk of severe bleeding is obviated. On the whole, however, the suprapubic opera- tion is steadily gaining ground at the expense of the perineal method, and in the hands of equally expert operators there is not much to choose between the two operations so far as risk to the patient is concerned. Among the advantages of the suprapubic operation, putting aside the ease and rapidity with which it can be performed, are the facilities it aflbrds for a thorough exploration of the bladder, including the detection of calculi, and for the removal of the middle lobe. Walstein has introduced a modification of the suprapubic method which consists in a temporary resection of the symphysis pubis. A curved transverse incision, with its con- vexity downwards, is made across the lower part of the hypogastrium close to the root of the penis. The tissues are then cut through down to the pubes, and the bladder is separated with the finger. The symphysis is then re- sected by passing a wire saw round the pubes on each side and dividing the bone through the pubic spine. A small portion of bone attached to the root of the penis and subpubic ligament is detached from the rest with the chisel. The symphysis is then displaced upwards, and the bladder, distended with air, is pushed into the wound by the finger of an assistant in the bladder. After the bladder condition has ])een dealt with, the wound of the organ is closed by separate suture of the mucous and muscular coats. The incisions are so planned in these two coats that they do not coincide. The symphysis is then replaced and fixed with two silver-wire sutures. The opera- tion is specially indicated in diseases of the prostate, in recto-vesical fistulse, and in tumours of the fundus of the bladder. Prostatectomy is indicated when retention, necessitating frequent use of the catheter, is present. Some advocate an earlier operation ; others advise that when symptoms of prostatic enlargement are present the catheter should have a fair trial before operation is recommended. Frequent micturition, with pain and hsemat- uria, even without retention, probably render prostatectomy desirable. De Quei'vain gives the following indications :—(1) Uninfected bladder, capable of being emptied: delay operation; (2) incomplete retention with residual urine : operate to prevent infection; (3) chronic re- tention, with overflow : operate; (4) acute re- tention, supervening on (2) or (3): operate; on (1) delay, to give catheterisation a chance. Prostatectomy is contra-indicated by (1) bad general condition of the patient; (2) general arterial sclerosis ; (3) long-standing catheter life; (4) diffuse bronchitis ; (5) renal inade- quacy. "Prostatism." In some cases all the symp- toms of hypertrophy of the prostate (con- veniently designated as "prostatism") are pre- sent without enlargement of the gland. In such cases the neck of the bladder is surrounded by a ring of fibroid tissue which interferes with the opening of the urethral orifice during micturition. If this is diagnosed before open- ing the bladder, the Bottini operation with the galvano-cautery—canalisation of the base of the prostate—is the method of choice. This operation was introduced for prostatic hyper- trophy, and is still advocated by some surgeons