24 ACIDOSIS readily catabolised by diabetes than other forms of carbohydrate, might prove useful in such cases. In the class of case described by Eustace Smith as " food fever," the line of treatment which has been found most satisfactory has been the limitation of the carbohydrate elements in the diet. This seems to point to such patients being unable to deal with carbohydrates in a normal fashion, and perhaps some inability of this kind is the factor which determines the occurrence of acidosis. Noordeii points out that many diabetics can assimilate more starch when only one variety is given than when the diet contains mixed carbohydrates, and has introduced an "oatmeal cure" based on this fact (see Diabetes). A similar line of treat- ment seems worthy of trial in children with defective power of dealing with carbohydrates. Among " antiketogenous" substances which may, to some extent, replace ordinary sugars and starches, Noorden enumerates albuminates, pentoses, glyconic acid, glycerin, citric acid. Fats.—Seeing that the acetone bodies are derived from fats, should these not be with- drawn from the food where acidosis is feared 1 Apparently little is gained by doing this. The giving of fats does not increase fat catabolism ; it only leads to the food fat being catabolised instead of the body fat. Only the lower fatty acids, especially butyric acid, have a marked effect in increasing ketones, so that practically the chief matter is to restrict the intake of butter and cream. In the acidosis of infants the indication is to reduce the ration of milk greatly, and to give malted and unmalted starchy foods. In addition to these causal indications, the symptoms of acid intoxication require treat- ment on the ordinary lines. LITERATURE.—Van Noorden, Metabolism and Practical Medicine, English edition, edited by Walker Hall, London, vol. i. p. 169 ; vol. iii. pp. 586, 882, 1907.—JoSLiN, Traw. Assoc. Amer. Phys., xxii. p. 246, 1907.—FoLiN, idem, p. 256.—Guthrie, Spriggs, Brit. Med. Journ., ii., 1908. —Langmead, Brit. Med. Journ., ii. p. 820, 1907.—Beesly, Brit. Med. Journ., May 19, 1906. Acromeg^aly.—Surgical Treatment. -—There are now on record a number of cases where acromegaly is said to have been cured by surgical means. The procedure adopted has been to remove the tumour of the pituitary gland, which is so constantly present in this disease. The function of the pituitary gland has been carefully investigated in recent years by SchaefFer, Herring, and others. The fimction which its secretion subserves is not yet understood, but it would appear that it is intimately concerned with growth and develop- ment. When this is the case it is not surpris- ing that disease of the pituitary gland should so frequently be associated with gross malforma- tion of the osseous and other tissues. The successful removal of tumours of the pituitary gland by surgical operation in cases of acro- megaly has been attended by so pronounced an improvement in the patient's condition that it can now be considered as definitely proven that in many, if not all, cases of acromegaly the cause is to be found in an aberrant function of the pituitary gland. Von Eiselsberg, of Vienna, was one of the first to obtain a successful result after operation in cases of acromegaly. One of his cases was that of a patient of thirty-three years of age. It showed the typical features of acromegaly. Eight years prior to operation she noticed, while pregnant, enlargement of the hands, feet, and face. She had previously suffered from headaches and visual disturbances. X-ray ex- amination revealed a considerable enlargement of the sella turcica. An operation for the removal of the tumour was undertaken at the patient's request. A solid growth was found involving the pituitary, which proved on ex- amination to be of the nature of a sarcoma. The patient died two days after operation, from meningitis. The method adopted by von Eiselsberg for obtaining access to the pituitary gland is one where a nasal flap is made, and access gained by the removal of the wall of the frontal sinus. Hochenegg, of Vienna, has recently operated on a patient who was thirty years of age, and in whom the diagnosis of acromegaly had been made. The Rontgen-ray photograph of the skull showed a tumour of the pituitary to be present. The disease first appeared when the patient was aged fifteen years. At first, intense headache and periodic attacks of perspiration and epistaxis were complained of. This was followed by defective vision. At twenty-five years of age a marked improvement took place in the patient's condition. This was, however, followed later by a return of the disease in a more aggravated form. Enlargement of the hands and feet now developed, and marked thickening of the lips and face appeared. She was operated upon after the method of von Eiselsberg. A nasal flap was made, the nose turned back, and the hypophysis by this means exposed on chiselling through the sella turcica. The neoplasm was removed by means of the curette. It was found to be, on examination, an adenoma. The patient made an excellent recovery ; the headaches disappeared, the eye- sight became much improved, the hands and feet are said to have become much reduced in size. The pronounced improvement that followed the removal of the pituitary tumovu' in this case is strong evidence in support of the growth having been responsible for the acromegalic condition. Acroteric.—Belonging to the outermost points (Gr. a/cpos, at the end)—a term used by