CONSTIPATION, CHRONIC, 107 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF in length, and the ileum must not l)e divided, for division means leaving the caBCum and the greater part of the colon literally as a blind receptacle—a condition which a priori would seem more likely to perpetuate than to relieve the condition of stagnation. Convulsions in Infancy.—Dr. John Thomson has drawn attention to the occurrence of a group of cases which may conveniently be termed "idiopathic convulsions," because no organic or peripheral cause can be found to ac- count for them. Their special features are:—(1) Appearance very early in life, often during the first few weeks. (2) The fits are at first short, not very severe, but fairly numerous—two or three in the day. (3) If untreated, or ineffici- ently treated, they soon increase in frequency, and as many as twenty or thirty may occur in the day. (4) This state of matters may last for weeks. (5) A condition of drowsiness or stupor may remain after the fits have ceased, but permanent mental impairment does not occur. The best treatment is to get the baby thoroughly under the influence of chloral. Bromide is of little or no use. Chloral hydrate should be given in doses of from 1 to 2 grs. every two hours, the object being to keep the baby constantly asleep. By regulating the dosage it is easy to keep the baby so drowsy that the fits are checked, yet not so drowsy as to prevent him swallowing. When once the baby is thoroughly under chloral the fits cease, but the drugs should be continued for thirty- six or forty-eight hours longer, and gradually withdrawn. Infants Avho suffer from fits of this kind are often small and puny, hence special attention should be paid to the diet. Most cases can be cured by the above line of treatment, but some die. No naked-eye lesions of the nervous system are found. The prog- nosis is least favourable in weakly infants. {See also Spasmophile Diathesis.) REFERENCE.—Thomson, Practitioner, Oct. 1905. Coolie Itch.—A dermatitis set up by the larvae of Strongyloides intestirmlis and Ankylostoma duodenale which have passed in through the skin of the human host. Copula,.—A disused synonymous term for amboceptor or immune body. See Immunity {Anti-bacterial Action). Coryfin.—A proprietary preparation, de- scribed as the ethyl-glycollic ester of menthol, recommended for its analgesic and sedative effects in neuralgia, headache, and respiratory affections (nasal catarrh), and stated to have a more prolonged effect than that possessed by menthol ; it is a yellowish oily fluid. See reports in Lancet, i. for 1908, p. 1778, and Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc., xlix. p. 1921, 1907. Cranio-Cleido-Dysostosis. Definition 107 Morbid Anatomy 107 Clinical Features .... 108 Etiology 108 Pathology . . . . . .108 Pathogenesis 108 Cranio-cleido-dysostosis or cleido - cranial dysostosis is the name which has been proposed by Marie and Sainton (in 1897) for the associa- tion of cranial and facial defects (persistence of the fontanelles, imperfect ossification of the bones of the vault and face), with absence or defective development of one or both clavicles ; heredity can often be traced. The morbid anatomy varies somewhat. One of the clavicles may be entirely absent (P. Niemeyer, J'agehl. d. Versammldeutsch. Naturf. ih. Aerzte, Hannover, xl. 68, 1865) ; but entire absence of one or both bones would appear to be rarer than incomplete development. The form taken by the latter anomaly is absence or non-ossification of the outer or acromial end of the bone, and this has the clinical effect of allowing the shoulders to be closely approxi- mated in front of the thorax (just as happens naturally in the cat). A man, described by L. H. D.van denBussche (Z)m. mar/gr.,Freiburg, 1890), had bilateral absence of the corpus and acromial part of the clavicle; and the state of the platysma, pectoralis major, deltoid, trapezius, sterno-mastoid, omohyoid, rhomboideus, and serratus anticus muscles agreed with the osseous defect, e.g. the clavicular part of the sterno- cleido-mastoid muscle was poorly developed. In an another man (G-iannettasio, Arch, di ortoped., xvi. 65, 1899), fifty-four years of age, the clavicles were represented by sternal frag- ments, the ends of which, instead of reaching the scapula, floated free among the soft parts of the supra-clavicular triangle. In some sixty cases collected by Fitzwilliams {Lancet, ii. for 1910, pp. 1466-1475), both clavicles were absent in six instances, and the left bone was totally absent in two ; but in all the other cases some trace of one or both bones was found. In the great majority of cases it was the acromial end that was wanting, but in three it was the sternal end. When both ends of the clavicle were present, but ununited, it was common to find the condition on both sides of the body. When the sternal end alone was to be made out, there was often a fibrous or ligamentous prolongation to be detected running out from it, and, somewhat unexpectedly, this band generally passed not to the acromion or to the glenoid cavity, but to the coracoid process. Cranial deformity is not invariably met with in association with the clavicular defect, but in Fitzwilliams' collected list of cases the head was described as normal in three only. As a