183 HEBRA'S PRURIGO and Dictionary of Medicine^ Vol. VIII. pp. 328-329. Hectine.—A sort of French equivalent to Ehrlich's 606 for syphilis, said to have been introduced (by Mouneyrat) prior to it, and to be equally efficacious and far less dangerous ; arsenic enters into its composition (see Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1910, p. 1929). Hectargyre, the invention of Dr. Salmon, is another French preparation of a similar kind. Heine-Medin's Disease.—'S'ee Poliomyelitis anterior acuta. Hemidystrophy.—A morbid condi- tion, often congenital, in which the two sides of the body differ in appearance; it differs from hoth hemihypertrophy and hemiatrophy in its irregularity. Hemiparesis.—See Cerebellum, Tumours of. Heredity. Mendel's Law 183 Historical Note . . . . .183 Statement . . . . .. .184 Explanation . . . . .184 Results . . . . . .185 Literature . . . . . .185 Galton and Pearson's Work . .185 In two directions advances have been made during the past five or six years in our know- ledge of the phenomena of heredity : Mendel's law regarding the inbreeding of hybrids has been brought to the light and applied in various relations, and Galton and Karl Pearson have attempted to solve the problems of heredity from the statistical side. Mendel's Law.—There is no more extra- ordinary page in the annals of science than that on which is written the story of Mendel's discovery. In a paper " which is a model of lucidity and expository skill" (Bateson), Gregor Johann Mendel, Abbot of Briinn, gave to the world in 1866 the results of experiments in hybridisation which he had been patiently conducting for eight years ; the plant experi- mented upon was Fisum sativum, the edible pea, and the work was done in the large garden of the cloister at Briinn, of which Mendel was Pralat or Abbot; he published another paper in 1869 on Hieracium-Hybrids ; and he died, early in 1884, without having seen the slightest notice taken of his work, but with the firm belief that his time would come. The scientific world, however, had to wait till the dawn of the twentieth century before it heard of Mendel's Law, for it was not till 1900 that De Vries, Correns, and Tschermak, independently of each other, rediscovered it and confirmed it by experi- ment ; since then, AV. Bateson has done much to make it known in Great Britain, and has experimented afresh along similar lines. So Mendel's article was exhumed froni the Proceedings of the Natural History Society of Briinn, where it had lain buried for thirty- four years. The Law referred to is one of inheritance in hybrid varieties, a fact and a limitation which is at the present time in some danger of being lost sight of. "It must be clearly noted," writes Prof. J. Arthur Thomson {Heredity, p. 381, 1908), "that Mendelian phenomena are not known except in certain cases of hybridisation ... the danger is of trying to universalise the Mendelian formula, and some of the attempts that have been made to give a Mendelian interpretation to dis- crepant facts seem to us very far-fetched." With this caution in mind, we must approach the subject of Mendel's Law. Taking the common pea, which, in its sub- species or varieties, possesses constant differ- entiating characters, allows easy artificial pollination, has fertile hybrids, and can be readily protected from foreign pollen, Mendel crossed two varieties and then inbred (self- fertilised) the resulting hybrids ; in this way he discovered the laws of dominance and segregation. Thus, taking the length of the stem (tall or dwarfish) as the differentiatmg characters, he crossed the tall and the short varieties; the result was that all the hybrid offspring were tall; tallness, therefore, was regarded as the dominant character, for it prevailed, whilst shortness, because it was the suppressed or apparently suppressed character, was called recessive. So, T crossed with S gave T, or DxR gave D. Self-fertilisation of the hybrid plants was now permitted, with the result that the next generation were not all alike tall, but showed the two original forms in the proportion of three talis to one short, or three dominants to one recessive (in percentages, 75 to 25). This is the law of segregation or splitting, viz. that the cross-bred plants when self-fertilised produce plants with the dominant character in the proportion of three to one with the recessive. If, now, the short-stemmed plants (recessives) were self- fertilised they bred true, that is to say, they never again produced tall ones, but only dwarfs. Further, if the tall-stemmed plants (dominants) were allowed to be self-fertilised, they produced one-third dominants, which thereafter always bred true, i.e. produced nothing but tall (dominant) plants; the other two-thii'ds, on the contrary, when self-fertilised gave rise to a mixture of dominants (tails) and recessives (shorts) in the proportion of