FRACTCJRES 157 Fractures.—We have to consider both passive and active movement. The former are valuable in preventing adhesions ; the latter in main- taining nutrition. Both forms of movement require to be used with care so as to avoid displacement of the broken ends; pain or serious discomfort must always be avoided. The patient's voluntary effort may be used in the reduction of displacements due to muscular action. If, for example, in a case of Potts's fracture, the surgeon tries to pull the foot into position the antagonistic muscles (here the peronei) will start into opposition and the patient will be caused scA^ere pain. If, instead of this, the surgeon steadies the foot and encoui'ages the patient to turn the foot inwards, he will be surprised how much ground he can gain, especially if he helps a little in the same direction. The voluntary effort ensures relaxa- tion of the opposing muscles. The same method may be applied in other cases on the principle that when one set of muscles in spasm causes displacement, relaxation of these will be induced by contraction of the opposing set. Acting on these principles, Cathcart advises the following simplified appliances in the treat- ment of the various fractures :—Clavicle.— Bandage the arm to the side and support elbow for a few days; thereafter only a sling is needed. Surgical neck of humerus.—Except in the rare case of persistent abduction of the upper fragment, or when the lower fragment is markedly drawn inward, rest in bed for a few days with the arm steadied ; then a sling. Fracture of olecranou.—After the initial pain and swelling have subsided, a sling at an angle of 135°, the angle of flexion being diminished as the condition improves. Colles's Fracture.— An anterior splint for the first few clays. Impacted extracapsular fracture of the neck of the femur.—The impaction should not be undone. Rest and extension for a few days will relieve pain, after which no apparatus is required. Fracture of patella.—The choice is between operation and massage and movement. In the latter case the knee should be steadied at first in slight flexion by a simple splint; afterwards the limb may be left free in bed Avith only an encircling strip of plaster round the lower third of the thigh. The operative treatment of fractures has been discussed by a number of surgeons. Vaughan lyAmer. Journ. Med. Scl., March 1907) gives as reasons for operating on fractures which are almost certain to get better without operation:— (1) To prevent deformity, especially shortening. (2) To prevent loss of function, especially pronation and suppuration. (3) To obviate delayed union or non-union. (4) To give opportunity to repair injured soft parts. (5) Because as a rule it is the only way to get a perfect result. The dangers attendant on the operation are—(1) Anaesthesia, common to many forms of treatment of fractures. (2) Fat embolus, as likely to occur from efforts to reduce a fracture by the blind as by the open method. (3) Extensive detachment of periosteum. This must be avoided. (4) Infection. Technique.—Of the various means of holding fragments in position—plates, screws, nails, pegs, bone ferrules, animal sutures, and wire— wire is the best in a large majority of cases. He has recently vised iron wire, which is cheaper and stronger than silver, and equally non- irritating. Wire may be used in several ways. (1) Drilling each fi'agment twice at right angles and using two strands of wiie. (2) Drilling each fragment once, and using one loop of wire. (3) In oblique fractures drill fragments while in position, pass wire through and carry several times round fracture. (4) Carry wire circularly round fragments. Bennett's Fracture of the Base of the Meta- carpal Bone of the Thumb.—In 1881 E. H. Bennett of Dublin first directed attention to the fact that fracture through the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb is a common injury, but his claim to the frequency and importance of the injury was not generally admitted, and little attention was paid to the subject until 1904, when Miles and Struthers reported a series of cases {Edin. Med. Journ. 1904, XV. p. 297). They describe the fractui'e as a chipping off of the palmar pro- jection of the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb with a varying amount of upward and backward displacement of the rest of the bone, the short palmar fragment retaining its normal relation to the trapezium. The line of fracture varies according as the metacarpal is flexed or extended on the trapezium. It is nearer the dorsal aspect of the metacarpal if the bone is flexed at the time of the accident, nearer the palmar aspect if it is fully extended— the more the metacarpal is extended the smaller will be the fragment chipped off. The fracture is caused by indirect violence, being the result of a blow on the tip of the thumb or, if the terminal phalanx be flexed, on the tip of the first phalanx. The usual history is that the patient fell, and to save himself put out his hand, which brought the thumb violently against the ground. A " stave " of the thumb frequently causes this fracture. Clinical features.—The right thumb is more frequently afi'ected, and in many cases the injury seems so trivial that patients do not come under treat- ment for some days, until the continued pain and weakness makes it evident that they are not merely suffering from a sprain. Crepitus may be present two, three, or four weeks after the injury. The signs and symptoms are constant and not difficult to recognise. Move- ment is limited, the thumb and little finger cannot be opposed, while abduction is also feeble. The displacement of the main portion