259 MENSTRUATION that the changes in the uterus were dependent on those in the ovaries, for both in the human subject and in the lower mammals the removal of the latter organs caused the cessation of menstruation (in woman) and of the pro- oestrum and oestrus (in other mammals). The small number of exceptional cases were prob- ably to be explained by failure to remove the whole of the ovarian tissue (see Bondi, Wien. klin. Wochensch., xvii. p. 104, 1904; French, Joiirn. Coinp. Med. and Vet. Arch., xxii. p. 284, 1901 ; Taylor, Vet. Journ., N. S., ^^ii. p. 282, 1903 : F. D. Thompson, Texas Med. Gaz., in. No. 12, 1903 : and Wackerhagen, Brooklyn Med. Journ., xvi. p. 424, 1902). At any rate, instances of pregnancy occurring after double ovariotomy or oophorectomy, such as the case reported by Doran {Journ. Ohstet. and Gyncec. Brit. Emp., ii. p. 1, 1902), could hardly be accounted for in any other way; and if pieg- nancy might occasionally follow, why should not menstruation sometimes persist ? There have been several theories as to the nature and mode of transmission of the ovarian influence. It could hardly l)e of a nervous character, cerebral or spinal, for experimental section of the spinal cord in animals did not prevent them coming into " heat" : ovarian grafting, also, was effectual in causing a reappearance of heat, although, of course, all the nervous connections of the transplanted glands had been severed (see Halban, J., Monatssch. f. Gehurtsh. u. Gyndk., xii. p. 496, 1900; Marshall and Jolly, Proc. Physiol. Sac. Lond., p. xxvi., 1906). The weight of e\adence was in favour of the view that the influence was chemical, and most probably of the nature of an internal secretion {a hormone or "activator"). The statement of L. Fraenkel's theory in 1903 {Arch.f. Gynaek., Ixviii. pp. 438-545, 1903) did much to focus .attention upon the corpus luteum as the centre of ovarian activity. Born had already sug- gested that the corpus luteum of pregnancy was a gland %vith an internal secretion, which ad to do with the embedding and develop- ment of the impregnated ovum in the uterus, ut he was unable to carry out the experimental investigation necessary to establish his views, nd this was done for him by Fraenkel. The results were striking, and carried Fraenkel lUrther than Born had foreseen. He soon came to the conclusion that the corpus luteum was a gland ; the character of the lutein cells and their mode of arrangement; its size, which was out of proportion to that of the unruptured Graafian follicle ; and the signs of functional activity in the corpus luteum when all the rest of the ovary was quiescent and anfemic ; these all pointed to its glandular character. Experi- ments showed that destruction or removal of corpora lutea brought an existing pregnancy to an end, or in the non-pregnant state pre- ented the onset of the next menstrual period. Andrews, in his summary {Journ. Obstef. and Gynac. Brit. Emp., v. p. 459, 1904), says that Fraenkel's deductions were as follow:—The corpus luteum was a gland which was renewed every four weeks in women during repi'oductive life, and at varying intervals in animals. It controlled the nutrition of the uterus in a cyclic fashion, prevented it from relapsing into its infantile or passing into its senile condition, and pi-epared the endometrium for the recep- tion of the ovum (or rather, in the light of Peters's work on ovum implantation, stimulated the activity of the trophoblast, and so fixed the ovum to the uterine wall). If the ovum were not fertilised, the corpus luteum produced the hyperemia of menstruation and then de- generated. Menstruation was caused by the secretory activity of the corpus luteum, and not by the pressure of the gro^ving follicle on the ovarian nerves ; and this activity pro- duced the four-weekly hyper?emia which led on either to pregnancy or to menstruation. Anomalous uterine bleeding and some cases of sterility might depend on pathological condi- tions of the corpus luteum. Ameuorrhcea and uterine atrophy might result from the same cause. Lactation-atrophy was a good example, for ovulation ceased, as a rule, during lactation, and therefore no fresh corpora lutea were formed. Fraenkel believed lutein to be the active principle, and recommended its use in troubles occurring at the menopause, and when ovariotomy had to be performed during pregnancy. \X^hilst it may be said that in the main Fraenkel's theory of the importance of the corpus luteum in menstruation holds the field, it must be admitted that later researches have tended to undermine parts of it. The some- what inert character of lutein, as determined by the physiological chemists, does not strengthen the view that it has such far-reaching effects upon the female economy. Again, the re- searches of J. Jankowski {Arch. f. mikr. Anat., Ixiv. p. 361, 1904) on the cells of the corpus luteum, showing that they arise from the tissue of the theca interna, and are therefore mesodei'mic in origin, weaken the claim that has been made for them that they perform secretory functions in connection with ovarian activity In appearance they resemble epithelial cells, but appearances are deceitful in such matters, as may be shown by the puerperal changes of the stroma cells of the uterine mucous membrane. Further, the destruction or excision of a corpus luteum does not invari- ably prevent the occurrence of menstruation at the following period (Hies, Amer. Journ. Ohstet., xlix. p. 165, 19()4 ; Kleinhaus and Schenk, Zeitsch. f. Gehurtsh. n. Gyndk., Ixi. p. 283, 1907), as Fraenkel expected it would do. If, however, it cannot be stated that Fraenkel's