388 UTERUS, MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF epithelioma began to be discovered in the male. Schlagenhaufer {Zentralb. f. Gyndk., xxvii. p. 82, 1903 ; Wien. med. Wochensch., May 1902) recorded how a man, 43 years of age, suffered from a tumour of the left testicle of a friable nature ; there was, also, a secondary growth in the lung; and the tumours from both organs showed, under the microscope, syncytium and the cells of Langhans's layer. Further, the testicular growth described by Breus in 1878 was re-examined by Schlagenhaufer and was found to be associated with secondary growths in the veins of the spermatic cord, and these could be traced through the inferior vena cava with the right auricle of the heart; the tumour itself contained sj'ucytial masses. Here, then, were cases of deciduoma malignum in the male, and of hydatidiform mole in a man's heart! These occurrences bridged across the gulf l)etween malignant tumours of the uterus and teratomata of the testicle, and at once brought what had been a purely local manifestation of disease into touch with the whole problem of cancer and of its possible origin of malignant growths in embryonic structures or " relics." Ritchie's discovery of a mediastinal tumour with the characters of a chorionepithelioma in a young man tended to draw attention more directly in this country to the occurrence of " deciduoma malignum " in the male. Other cases were reported by Wlassow (Virchow's Arch., Bd. clxix. p. 220), and more recently by Emanuel (Zentralb. f. Gyncik., xxviii. p. 143, 1904), by Fisch {Interstate Med. Journ., xiii. p. 441, 1906), by Bernstein [W. London Med. Journ., xii. p. 128, 1907) and Ijy Emrys-Roberts {Journ. Path. Bacterial., xiv. p. 135, 1909). It must now be regarded as certain that chorionepithelioma occurs in both sexes, and in both has malignant characters, although it is more frequent in women, probably because of its well-known connection with pregnancy and the hydatidiform mole. In the male sex it would seem to be generally connected with a teratoma in which, it must be conceded, that there were embryonic relics corresponding to the stage of development in which the chorion and its \'illi are present (Eden, Journ. Ohstet. and Gijnmc. Brit. Emp., xii. p. 433, 1907). This conclusion is supported by the fact that this malignant growth has been found to arise from ovarian teratomata in the female, when the presence of pregnancy could be excluded {e.g. in Pick's patient who was 8J- years old, Berl. klin. Wochensch., xii. pp. 158," 195, 1904). We may summarise the progress of our know- ledge of the pathology of the chorionepithelioma by saying that it is a malignant tumour consist- ing mainly of syncytium and of cells closely resembling those of Langhans's layer in the chorionic villi ; that it most often occurs in the female and in the uterus, but may be met with in other organs (either secondarily or, very rarely, primarily), and even in the other sex (generally in association with teratomata of the testicle); and that it arises either from cells of the chorionic villi (especially in connection with a hydatidiform or cystic mole) or from some structure which has " the morphological value of an included matured and fertilised ovum." Since it arises either from the chorionic epithelium or from its forerunner, the tropho- blast, it might be termed a trophoblastoma, but the term chorionepithelioma has been fairly well established in use and may be accepted as satisfactory^ But it must be borne in mind that such a neoplasm is peculiar neither to the uterus nor to the female sex. Little can be safely affirmed of the etiology of chorionepithelioma. When we know the cause of cancer, we m&y perhaps be within touch of that of the chorionepitheliomata; on the other hand, the investigation of the latter may throw a flood of light upon the former question and the wider one. The following facts have been established :—Chorionepithelioma occurs most often in individuals in adult life, and it is noteworthy that the age of predilection is actually thirty-three ; its tendency to follow a molar pregnancy or an abortion is well known (but unfortunately the cause of the hyda- tidiform mole is itself a mystery, and it is not yet possible to say what form of mole is most likelj^ to precede a chorionepithelioma) ; and it may be surmised that excessive trophoblastic activity has a causal influence, especially if combined with deficient resistance of the maternal tissues. There is little to be added to the clinical signs and syynjjtomatology of chorionepithelioma (vide Encyclopedia and Dictionary of Medicine, VIII. p. 380; X. 372). Its clinical connection with abortion has been fully borne out by reported cases, but it may follow on full time labour and even the birth of a living child (Hicks, Journ. Ohstet. and Gyncec. Brit. Emp., xvi. p. 179, 1909); it may also occur after the menopause, e.g. Krosing's patient was fifty-two years of age, and it was three years since her climacteric was reached {Arch. f. Gynaek., Ixxxviii. p. 469, 1909). In Fairbairn's case {Journ. Obstet. and Gynaic. Brit. Emp., xvi. p. 1, 1909) there were almost no uterine symptoms, and operation revealed what was apparently a primary chorionepithelioma of the left ovary. Diagnosis founded upon curetting of the uterus is not always reliable, for the scrapings may not contain the distinctive cellular elements; the symptomatology, there- fore, should not be lost sight of in coming to a conclusion. After removal the tumour can easily be recognised by its microscopical appear- ances. Prognosis is less grave than was at first thought ; apparently the chances of recovery after operation are greater when the tumour has followed a hydatid mole than when it has