309 PROSTATE, SURGERY OF in preference to prostatectomy. The advan- tages claimed for it by Freudenberg are—the patient is willing to submit to it early ; a local ansesthetic is sufficient; there is little risk either of impotence or incontinence. Among the possible sequelaj of prostatectomy are—persistence of a fistula ; incontinence from destruction of the vesical sphincter; stricture; impotence ; psychical disturbances. For further details as to suprapubic prostat- ectomy, Freyer's papers in the Brit. Med. Journ., 24th July 1901 and 7th October 1905, should be referred to. PfOta-iriins.—Very simple proteins, the simplest found in nature, resembling in this respect synthetically produced polypeptids. Protea,nS. — Primary derived proteins or bodies showing only slight alteration of the protein molecule. Proteoses.—Secondary protein deriva- tives, showing a greater amount of alteration of the protein molecule than do the proteans. Prothrombase.—A zymogen taking part in the coagulation of the blood; it is present in the leucocytes and is changed into thrombase, the active agent in coagulation. Protozoa..—During late years our know- ledge concerning the pathogenicity of the protozoa has received many additions, and we have now to recognise in many of these organisms infective agents second in importance only to the bacteria. They are higher life forms than the bacteria, and while no hard- and-fast line can be drawn between the two, the following characteristics serve generally to distinguish the protozoa. The protozoa are unicellular organisms endowed usually with organs for locomotion as well as for the capture, devouring, and digestion of food. Their bodies have either no cuticle, or, if there be one, it is rarely of cellulose ; they invariably contain nuclear material. Reproduction takes place by cell division, which is in most cases supplemented by some form of conjugation. This alternation of asexual and sexual phases is one of the chief characters distinguishing the protozoa from lower forms; it is the feature, also, which renders their study so difficult, because the different phases of an organism are often so dissimilar as for long to escape identification. Reproduction may take place by (1) simple fission, resulting either in the formation of two symmetrical organisms (binary fission); by (2) asymmetrical fission— budding, or gemmation; or by (3) multiple fission — sporulation — in which the nucleus breaks up simultaneously, or divides succes- sively, into a number of individuals. This asexual generation may go on for many generations, but cannot continue indefinitely. Like the metazoa, the protozoa ultimately become senescent and die, unless rejuvenation takes place by sexual conjugation. Such weakening with age has been experimentally demonstrated in the paramoscium, by isolating the individuals as they are reproduced by fission, and thus eliminating sexual conjugation. After a number of generations unmistakable signs of old age appear, and the race dies out. Sexual reproduction (zygosis) may occur at different points in the life cycles of diff'erent forms; it consists in the fusion of the nuclei of two individuals {gametes), which may be either young individuals or adults, and may be similar or dissimilar. Nuclei which are about to conjugate are called pronuclei ; the nucleus which is formed is a synkaryon, and the new individual, a zygote. Gametes prob- ably always undergo a process of maturation, with extrusion of polar bodies, before zygosis takes place. In the case of union of dissimilar gametes {anisogamy) one is usually smaller and more motile, the other larger, and full of reserve material; the former is regarded as the male, the latter as the female, partner. Not only may the gametes differ from one another, but the generation {gametocytes) which produces the gametes may be differentiated from the ordinary members of the species. Thus a species may be highly polymorphic with a recurrent cycle of diff'erent forms : ordinary asexual or vegetative cycle, and gametocytes, gametes, male and female of the sexual cycle. Under special circumstances a sexual individual may revert to asexual re- production (parthenogenesis). Protozoa are divided into four classes— sarcodina, mastigophora, sporozoa, and in- fusoria. I. Sarcodina.—This group includes the amcehfe, some of which (e.g. amcjeba coli) are pathogenic to man. The cytoplasm has no envelope, and movements for the capture of food are eff"ected by pseudopodia. Repro- duction takes place by simple fission, the latter being associated with some form of zygosis. There are three parasitic species of amoebse— entammhw buccalis, entamoebce coli, and enta- moehoi histolytica (Schaudinn). Schaudinn proved that the amoeba of dysentery was not identical with the amoeba coli. The organisms differ in their life histories, and the spores of amoeba dysenteriaj (histolytica) are infective to cats. II. Mastigophora.—This group consists of protozoa with flagellse. It is a large group, with many subdivisions, of which the Try- panosomatidse are by far the most important from a medical standpoint. The Trypanosomatidse include various genera, all having as a common feature the