315 PSYCHO-THERAPy AND PSYCHO-ANALYSIS symptom arises not from one, but from many, of these submerged, repressed wishes, and that the most essential of them belong to the first half of childhood. This leads, if accepted, to the general statement that nothing happen- ing to a child after the age of six can cause a psycho-neurosis. Having reached this point, most readers will demand a pause, and will ask whether these con- clusions haA'e been rigorously examined. That they have been denied and scouted is certain, but it can hardly be said that they have been either scientifically examined or logically refuted. An Editorial in the Lmicet (i. for 1910, p. 1425) puts some doubts forward. "Of what nature," it asks, "are these unpleasant, unbearable incidents, feelings, or ideas that woukl appear to be so prolific in the establish- ment of psychical ill-health 1 In all cases that Professor Freud has analysed it has been the sexual life that has furnished the material. Be it hysteria, obsession, phobia, or anxiety- neurosis, it matters not; the painful, repressed idea is always and only sexual, according to the Viennese professor. Again, he naively remarks, that it is not possible theoretically to exclude its arising in other spheres ; he, how- ever, has not found it so. The reader who has hitherto been unfamiliar with Pr'ofessor Freud's work may be reasonably excused for expressing surprise that every case of hysteria, even in earliest childhood, has for its origin some sexual experience ; that acquired anxiety- neurosis (a form of neurasthenia, but to be distinguished from it) is the result of coitus interruptus, or of insufhciently gratified libido, or of other sexual factors which need not be specified here ; and that very many, if not all, phobias and obsessions have the same etiology. Professor Freud is candid enough to admit that he cannot deny the occurrence of other causal elements in the development of the defence neurosis, but these pale into insignifi- cance compared with the sexual. If he thinks so, the difficulty of maintaining an open and unbiassed mind in the course of a long and intimate psycho-analysis must be enormous. The temptation to fasten on the most trifling sexual incident must be overwhelming. Wher- ever one looks for these incidents of the sexual life, they can be found near at hand. In fact, Professor Freud's hypothesis explains too much. At the same time there is little attempt to deal seriously with those instances of hysteria the etiology of which is palpably not sexual, cases in which cures result without any application of the psycho-analytic method." For the non- sexual cases and for patients who are incapable of psycho-analysis, the Freudian theory explains too little. These ciiticisms on Freud's work are so far just, and his genius has been fairly described as that rather of the poet than of the scientist; but his conclusions are none the less deserving of careful analysis, and it is true that many of the greatest advances in medicine have had more than a soupcon of imagination in them. At any rate it will not be unprofitable to look for a moment or two at the application of Freud's beliefs to treatment as expressed in psycho-analysis. Psycho-therapy, it must be remembered, is not treatment of the mind, but treatment by psychical means, and psycho- analysis is an important part of it in this sense, and has for its watchword, " You can do better when you know." Psycho-analysis is the method employed to bring into the bright light of the patient's attention the disagreeable experiences of life which have been, so to say, pushed into a dark corner but not prevented from influencing the conscious life of the individual. These ex- periences have been repressed liut not de- stroyed, they have been crowded out of clear consciousness into a soi't of quasi-independent existence, and they constitute "the submerged complexes " of the mental life. Psycho-analysis attempts to discover and uncover the sub- merged complex, to cure the disease by reveal- ing it. The first step is a detailed conversation with the patient, during which the physician leads him or her to talk not only about symptoms, but also about the main events of the whole life. From this an idea is gained of the personality of the individual, and at a later interview the information gained is expanded in directions which seem likely to prove fruitful. One may, of course, make false starts and have to retrace one's steps, and, equally, of course, time is required, for what it has taken a lifetime to build up cannot be analysed in an hour or two. The next step is to institute a more penetrating search for the submerged complexes, and this may be done by "free association," " word association," or analysis of dreams the patient may haAe had. In the " free association " method, the attempt is made to put the patient in a com- fortable position, to prevent such distracting influences as sounds (banging of doors, foot- steps, chiming of clocks) or bright lights, whilst all other persons, save the physician, are excluded from the room ; the result is "a genei'al state of quiescence and passivity," which resembles in some particvilars the hyp- noidal condition {q.v., p. 189), and which can usually be made to pass into it by causing some monotonous sensory stimulus {e.g. the buzzing of a faradic coil) to act upon the patient's brain. Now the patient's thoughts are directed to some occurrence in his or her past history, and he or she is told not to try to remember but simply to hold the occurrence in mental view and announce the thoughts which follow, however inconsequential, unim- portant, or apparently absurd they may be.