LUPUS VULGARIS 253 ment, cases must be kept for some time under observation, as recurrences are not uncommon, because the deeper nodules are not readily accessible to the rays, and the disease heals on the surface but reappears, starting from some deep nodule which has been overlooked. In the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary the Finsen light treatment has been almost entirely replaced by the X-rays. X-Rays.—The rays should be given regularly for a period and then stopped, as the disease continues to heal for weeks and sometimes months after X-ray treatment has been discon- tinued. A combined method of treatment gives the best results. X-rays alone are not advis- able. Locally a very good application is an ointment consisting of Ichthyolici nixv., Ac. salicyl. gr. x., and Ung. hydrarg. oleat. (5 per cent.), 51. This ointment should be rubbed very well into all the nodules for at least half an hour, night and morning. The advantage of this ointment is that the patient can use it himself at home for an indefinite time without supervision. Combined with simultaneous X- ray exposures very rapid results may be ob- tained. Drbuw's Method.—For those who cannot obtain X-ray treatment, a useful method is that introduced by Dreuw. This method consists in first freezing the diseased area by ethyl chloride or carbon dioxide snow, and then rubbing crude hydrochloric acid well in. Pieces of wood with cotton-wool wound round the end are dipped in the hydrochloric acid, which is very thoroughly rubbed in. The acid has a selective action on the lupus tissue, causing it to slough off. After the acid is applied, the area is dressed with a bland powder. A crusted slough forms, and when that falls ofi' the resulting scar is a good one. For large areas it is recommended to give the patient chloroform, as the treatment can thus be much more thoroughly carried out. This method is suitable for lupus of the mucous membranes as well as of the skin. Dreuw claims that the preliminary freezing makes the operation practically painless, but that is not the case, the pain, although of short duration, often being very considerable. The cauterisa- tion has to be repeated as often as necessary. After the greater part of the disease has been cured, any isolated nodules, which are left, ar-e spiked with the crude acid, which is introduced by a small sharp - pointed glass tube. The advantages of the method are its cheapness, rapidity of action, and good cosmetic result. Tuberculin.—Tuberculin (T. R.) has now been used fairly extensively in the treatment of all tuberculoses of the skin, but the results recorded are very various. Some claim to have cured the disease with tuberculin alone, but the majority report improvement only in certain cases, the dry scaly forms without ulceration being least affected by tuberculin. Tuberculin (T. R.) may safely be given in doses of ~ ToVo ™gm- every three weeks, and the counting of the opsonic index is not essential. The effect on the disease and on the general condition should be watched, and if these improve the injections continued. The injections should not cause any rise of tempera- ture or local reaction in the diseased area. Tuberculin treatment should be combined with local treatment, such as X-rays, etc. The use of old tuberculin (A. T.) is now entirely reserved for diagnostic purposes in doubtful cases. It is given subcutaneously in an initial dose of mgm. This usually causes a rise of temperature and a marked local red- ness and swelling of the lesions. The local reaction is the only reliable one, as the general reaction may be due to tubercle of the internal organs. It should also be remembered that a rash not infrequently follows the injection of old tuberculin. The rash is usually a small papular one, and often indistinguishable from lichen scrofulosorum. It has no significance, and fades as a rule in a few days, but may persist as a chronic eruption like lichen scrofu- losorum. Calmette's and Pirquet's Reactions.— The ophthalmic tuberculin reaction and Pirquet's cutaneous tuberculin reaction are of no value in the diagnosis of skin diseases. If a positive result be obtained, it is simply an indication that the patient has either active or latent tuberculosis in his body somewhere, and does not imply that any skin lesion present is tuber- culous in nature. Radium.—Radium is also useful in the ti'eat- ment of lupus. The duration and frequency of the applications depend on the quantity of radium used, and can only be learned by ex- perimenting with a given specimen of radium. Its action is very much like X-rays, but it has the further advantage that it can be applied to the mucous membrane of cavities, such as the nose and mouth, where it is difficult or im- possible to apply X-ray treatment. It can also be readily applied to lesions which are in close proximity to the eye. The disadvantages are the high price and its applicability to only limited areas at a time. REFERENCES.—MOERIS and Dore, Light and X- Ray Treatment of Skin Diseases, 1907.—Dkeuw, Berl. Mill. Wochcnsch., No. 17, 1904.—Retn and Petersen, Lancet, p. 1004, 1908.—Raw, Lancet, p. 481, 1908.— Low, Scott. Med. and Surg. Journ., May and Sept. 1905. Lymphaemia,.—Lymphatic leukaemia; it differs from splenomyelogenous leukaemia in that the increase is marked in the mononuclear non-granular cells rather than in the granular ones. LymphangiopIasty.—An operation for the relief of lymphatic oedema, a number of