115 DIABETES creas led to its being tried as a remedy for diabetes, on the theory that the latter was due to failure of an internal secretion of the pan- creas. Secretin was usually given in the form of an acid extract of the duodenal mucous membrane. Unfortunately the results of the secretin treatment have not realised anticipa- tions, though some favourable cases have been reported. Little has been heard of it during the past year or two. REFERENCES.—Moore, Edie, and Abram, Bio- chemical Journ., p. 28, 1906.—FOSTER, Journ. Biolog- ical Chemistry, Jan. 1907. —Dakin and Bransom, Ibid. Dia.dOCOCinesia.. — The inability to perform accurately and rapidly alternate move- ments, such as pronation and supination ; it is regarded by Babinski as pathognomonic of cere- bellar tumour ; it is derived from Greek giaao-xog, succeeding, and air/iaig, a moving. See Cerebel- lum, Symptomatology of Tumours of (Diad- ococinesia). Dia,ma.lt.—-A proprietary preparation, an analysis of which appeared in the Brit. Med. Journ. (ii. for 1909, p 1478) ; reducing sugars amounted to 63-9 per cent., protein to 6 52 per cent., dextrin to 12'7 per cent., and ash to 1-2 per cent. ; the diastatic power was 1060. Diamalt with Cod Liver Oil.— A proprietary preparation, the analysis of which is given in the Brit. Med. Joura., i. for 1910, p. 30 ; according to this, it contained 64 per cent, of reducing sugars, 4 1 per cent, of oil, and 5 6 per cent, of protein, and had a diastatic power of 74. Diathermy.—The heating of diseased tissue by electrical currents of high frequency as employed for surgical purposes (coagulation of tumours followed by their removal by curette, etc.), and for medical {e.g. in neuritis) ; «lecti-o coagulation ; thermo penetration {Brit. Med. Journ..ii. for 1910, p. 1547). Diet. — Chittenden's work {Physiological Economy in Nut7-ition) on the amount of pi'O- teid required by the normal adult has led to a great deal of discussion since its publication in 1904. Voit's standard dietary, which was based on the average of a large number of observations on actual diets, and was given as that suitable for a man of 11 stones doing moderate work, is 118 grams protein, 56 grams fat, and 500 grams carbohydrate—roughly equal to 3000 calories. Chittenden found that he could maintain himself in nitrogenous equil ibrium on a diet containing only from 37 to 40 grams of protein, and furnishing from 1500 to 1600 calories. He instituted a series of obser- vations extending over several months on 26 individuals who were divided into three groups —(1) the laboratory staff; (2) volunteers from the army medical corps ; (3) students engaged in athletics. The first and second groups were doing moderate, the third group hard, muscular work. The main restriction on the diet was to enjoin moderation, and, without in most cases eliminating animal food from the diet, Chitten- den gradually reduced the protein intake very greatly below Voit's standard. It was found that to keep these men in nitrogenous equil- ibrium only from 47 to 55 grams of protein were required. In most cases there was a slight initial fall in weight, but thereafter the weight remained stationary at the new level. Bodily strength was gained (100 per cent, as registered by the dynamometer in group (2) ; 50 per cent, in the case of the athletes who were previously in training) ; endurance was heightened ; the subjects enjoyed a feeling of increased well-being, and remained in excellent health throughout the experiment. Chittenden's experiments undoubtedly prove that the minimum protein intake required is much below Voit's standard. In the opinion of most competent judges, however, they do not prove that this minimum standard is also the optimum. It is urged that Chittenden's subjects were in an exceptional position ; they were leading quiet, regular lives, with ample sleep and abstinence from alcohol; their work, though hard, was that to which they were accustomed ; they were interested in it, and in the experiment they were making. These cir- cumstances, along with a natural enthusiasm for the new regime, tended to favour the success of the experiment. The chief arguments against the general adoption of a very low protein standard are, that it may not improbably lower the power of resistance to disease, and that Voit's standard has proved reliable from a hygienic and social standpoint. Purin-Free Diet.—a purin-free diet has been advised in gout and other conditions— renal disease, headaches, migraine, recurrent vomiting, etc., on the theory that such condi- tions are associated with the retention or abnormal metabolism of uric acid. The purin bodies are formed from nucleo-proteids ; their relations are shown in the following :— Purin Hypo-Xanthin Xanthin Uric acid Adenin . Guanin . Caffeine. Theobromine C,H.N, C,H,N,0 , c,h,na[''''^p"""'- C^N^H.NH ) . C,N,H,ONHr™«-P"™^- C5N,H(CH3)302 trimethylx- anthin C5N,H,(CH,).,02 dimethylx- anthin. Uric acid arises from two sources—(1) from the nucleo-proteins and purin bodies of the food