17 ACCOUCHEMENT FORCE rightly called a kolpeurynter {e.g. Carl Braim's instrument), but when it is placed in and exercises pressure on the cervix it ought to be termed a metreurynter. A certain amount of cervical dilatation is presupposed. The bag is thoroughly disinfected, and is introduced (in the case of the Champetier de liibes's instru- ment) folded together closely in the grasp of a special pair of forceps into the cervical canal; it is then partly distended by pumping water (lysol solution) into it by means of a syringe, and the forceps is unlocked and withdrawn. Since the broad end of the cone is uppermost, there is little tendency for the bag to slip out; it is now further distended with water and left to dilate the canal, although some operators recommend that traction (continuous or inter- mittent) be made on it to hasten the dilatation. It is not so rapid a method as manual dilatation, and of course it is much slower than vaginal Caesarean section or Bossi's plan; but it is claimed for it that, forming as the bag does a fluid dilating wedge, it more closely resembles the natural process. J. B. De Lee {Internal. Clinia^, 16 s. i. p. 147, 1906) states that the hydrostatic bag is, without question, the safest method of opening the cervix, and recommends the Voorhees bag, an American modification of the French style ; he admits that if care is not used the uterus may be ruptured. The general opinion would seem to be that hydrostatic bags are finding their special sphere of usefulness in the modified accouchement force which is employed in the treatment of placenta prsevia. Had this summary been written two or three years ago considerable space would necessarily have been given to the discussion of Bossi's metallic dilators and of the somewhat similar instruments of Frommer, Tarnier, and De Seigneux {Zentralbl.f. Gyvdk.,xxix. p. 717, 1905); but less attention need now be given to this method of performing accouchement force, for it has been abandoned by many obstetricians. Bossi's invention of a branched metallic dilator consisting of three or four rods ending in blunt points, which could be accurately and equally separated by a registering screw apparatus at the bases of the rods, had much to do with the temporary popularity of this form of rapid dilatation (viz. 30 to 35 min.) of the cervix; and Leopold's strong recommendation {Arch. f. Oynaek., Ixvi. p. 198, 1902) quickly spread its fame abroad. Soon after the appearance of Leopold's article the instrument of Bossi was successfully employed in Edinburgh by Sir. A. R. Simpson {Trans. Edin. Obstet. Soc, xxviii. p. •21, 1902), by Frost (ibid., p. 15, 1902), and by Ballantyne {ibid., xxix. p. 76, 1903-4), generally in cases of eclampsia; Gairdner used either the Bossi or the Bossi-Frommer dilator in fourteen cases in Glasgow {Journ. Obstet. and Gyncec. Brit. Empire, iv. p. 384, 1903); De Paoli {Arch. f. Gynaelc., Ixix. p. 12, 1903) treated nineteen cases of placenta prsevia thus, with one maternal death ; and Schiirmaini {Monatsch. f. (rehnrfsh. V. Gi/iiafk., xviii. p. ol3, 190H) reported ten cases in which Preiss s modification of the Rossi was used, and thought that for al)ortions between the fourth and sixth month, and for labours at term, Bossi's plan was a great addition and a safe method. Ehrlich's lengthy article {Arch, f. Gj/nuek., Ixxiii. pp. 439 543, 1904) was more critical than any of the preceding contributions ; this writer, from an experience of forty-seven cases in Leopold's clinique, thought that rapid mechanical dilatation of the cervix should be employed only when the life of the mother or of the infant was seriously threatened, that the earlier in pregnancy the plan was resorted tO' the greater was the care and foresight necessary, and that special precautions were needed for primiparse and patients in whom the cervix was not taken up. The critical period thus ushered in was continued throughout 1905 and 1906, till Runge {linl. klin. lFi)c}un>ir]ir., xliii. p. 1190, 1906) gave it as his opinion that in skilled hands the instrument could yield good results, but that very few practitioners should use it, and that it should never be employed when the cervical canal still existed. Diihrssen's method (deep cervical incisions) and Bossi's plan were brought into sharp contrast and conflict in a series of articles which appeared in 1905 and 1906 {Arch. f. Gynaek., Ixxv. p. 247, 1905; Zentralbl.f. Gyndt, xxx. pp. 289, 417, 509, 748, 811); and within the past two years little has been heard in favour of the latter method, while the former has been strongly pressed. Bossi himself, however {Gyraek. Rundschau, i. p. 789, 1907), defends forcible dilatation of the cervical canal, and states that he has in no way altered his views during the past seventeen years since he first introduced the instrument that bears his name. Cortiguera also {Journ. de med. Paris, 2 s. xix. p. 400, 1907) maintains that Bossi's method is far the best at our dis- posal at the present time ; the dilator is easy to sterilise and to use ; it acts quickly and dilates sufficiently; it is applicable even before the cervix is taken up; it causes no lacerations of any account; the haemorrhage is scarcely more than in normal labour; and it is as quick and less dangerous than Caesarean section. Yet, whilst these voices are heard in favour of Bossi's method, it can hardly be denied that general obstetric opinion is against it. The risks of serious cervical lacerations are real, even when cases are chosen with care and a proper interval of time allowed for the process of dilatation, and there are certain so-called indications for its use, e.g. placenta prsevia, and the ordinary induction of labour where haste is not needed, which are regarded by nearly everyone as indefensible. Whether or not a small field of usefulness remains for the Bossi dilator the future must decide. Grave cases of eclampsia 2