ABDOMINAL SECTION 7 same level. The gauze pledget or flat sponge is now withdrawn (with a pair of dissecting forceps), the sutures being relaxed to allow it to pass out easily; the omentum is drawn down so as to lie behind the incision, and the edges of the wound are swabbed clean; the sutures are tied from above downwards, and sufficiently tight to bring the different layers into exact opposition. They should be left in for from ten to fourteen days. The "tier" plan of suturing may be done in various ways. Thus each layer (peritoneal, fascial, muscular, subcutaneous, and cutaneous) may be in turn dealt with, or, what is more usual, the peritoneum is first united by a con- tinuous catgut suture and the remaining layers brought together by silkworm gut. The assist- ant operator with a pair of dissecting forceps holds in apposition the peritoneal margins at the lower end of the wound, and the operator transfixes them with a catgut suture in a curved needle held in a needle-holder or simply with his fingers. This first suture is knotted and fixed, and then the operator works his way upward, passing a continuous catgut suture through the peritoneal edges till the whole in- cision in the serous membrane has been closed; the second last stitch is not drawn quite tight, so as to leave the means of tying a knot. Then beginning at the top and working downwards the surgeon passes a second continuous catgut suture through the opposed edges of the recti muscles and aponeurotic layers; and finally he works his way up again, suturing the subcut- aneous tissues, and so bringing together the skin edges with another buried suture. In introducing the last-named suture it is well to pass the catgut vertically upwards in the sub- dermal tissue on the one side of the wound, then cross it transversely over to the other side, where it is introduced at a slightly lower level and again run vertically upwards and crossed back again to the other side. In this way a very accurate approximation of the skin edges can be got. This method takes some time, and therefore many operators prefer to close the peritoneum and perhaps, also, the aponeurotic layer with a continuous catgut suture, and then to approximate the more superficial structures by interrupted silkworm sutures ; the last-named sutures must, of course, be removed. Other sur- geons have used one or two silver wire sutures or silver filigree to give stability to the scar—these are left buried in the tissues—but, on the whole, this method has not been widely employed. The Dressing of the Wound.—The wound must now be covered with a dressing, and very various plans have been followed. There is a tendency to use more and more simple forms of dressing nowadays, especially if the practice of painting the whole incision, the sutures, and the surrounding skin with iodine be adopted. A few layers of sterilised gauze or of sublimate gauze, slightly moist, are then laid upon the wound; these are covered by a layer of sterile cotton-wool, and the whole dressing is held in position by strips of sticking plaster, or collodion may be painted on fixing the application to the wall, l)ut the former is probably to be preferred. Over all the binder is applied, care being taken that its lower edge (which comes close to the symphysis pubis) should not ruck up and expose the lower end of the incision. In order to pre- vent this happening some operators pass (on each side) a strip of bandage attached to the lower edge of the binder between the patient's thighs and bring it round on the outside, fixing it with a safety-pin to the binder in the neighbourhood of the iliac crest. Some surgeons omit the binder and make use of strips of sticking plaster alone ; these have the advantage of leaving the back and sides of the abdomen unswathed, and by cutting them on one side the dressing can be raised and the wound inspected easily. The After - Treatment. — Consideral^le changes have of recent years been made in the after-treatment of abdominal sections. In Ger- many the principle of earhj rising has been intro- duced, and an attempt has been made to get patients on to their feet on the second, third, or fourth day instead of leaving them in bed for three weeks or thereby. Carl Hartog did much to introduce this innovation, although the idea came from Ries of Chicago (Zentmlbl. f. Gyndk., xxxii. p. 1529, 1908); H. Kummell {Arch.f. Jdin. Chir., Ixxxvi. No. 2, 1908), F. Cohn (Zentralbl. f. Gyndk., xxxii. p. 12-33, 1908), and many others produced evidence in favour of allowing laparo- tomy patients to rise early. Cohn, for instance, allowed 13 out of 100 patients to rise on the first day, 16 on the second, 21 on the third, and 30 on the fourth day; there were three cases of thrombosis, but it was of a transitory nature. It was thought that the results were beneficial and that the moral effect on the patient was favourable. The danger of thrombosis and em- bolism following such early rising has been dis- cussed by Zurhelle {Zentralbl. f. Gyndk., xxxii. p. 1421, 1908), by Fromme {ibid., xxxiii. p. 15, 1909) , by Hofmeier {ibid., p. 21, 1909), by Bid well {Practitioner, Ixxxii. p. 214, 1909), by F. Mendel {Miinch. med. Wochenschr., Ivi. No. 42, 1910) , and several others, and it would seem that the risk is not imaginary. Mendel {loc. cit.) even gives the name thrombophilia to the peculiar tendency towards thrombosis which some patients show—a sort of inverted haBmo- philia—and it is not unreasonable to think that there will be increased danger of embolism if such patients are allowed to rise early; there is certainly no evidence that early rising after lapai'otomy prevents the formation of thrombi in a predisposed subject. Possibly Professor Schiicking {Zentralbl. f. Gyndk., xxxii. p. 1634, 1908) is on safer lines when he recommends gym- nastic exercises in the horizontal position rather