^6 "ALBULACTIN" be added to diluted milk in the proportion of 1 to 100, with milk sugar in addition. It is claimed that a soft, finely subdivided curd foi-ms in the stomach resembling that resulting from the ingestion of human milk. Alcoholism. — Quinquaud's Sign. — This is a phenomenon which, particularly in Germany, has been the object of study to a gi'eater extent than its importance merits. It was originally desci'ibed by Maridort in 1900 ; his attention had been drawn to it by Quinquaud seven years earlier. Quinquaud's sign, which was at one time expected to afford a means of detecting alcoholism, is elicited thus :—The patient allows his outstretched fingers to rest lightly on the palm of the observer's hand at an angle of about 45°—in the position assumed in playing the piano. After a few seconds the observer can feel a sort of crepitation, as if the phalanges of the patient were knocking against one another. The crepitations can be heard if the patient's fingers rest on a small resonator— a box made of thin wood—to which the chest- piece of the observer's stethoscope is applied. Unfortunately, Quinquaud's sign is not pathog- nomonic of alcoholism : it is common in alco- holics, fairly frequent in moderate drinkers, rare in abstainers. Fiirbinger states that if it is well marked the patient is probably a drunkard ; if absent, alcoholism is excluded. According to Minor, it is very common in tabes—a " hypo- tonic phenomenon." Lautscher looks on the sign as evidence of general nerve instability, and common in alcoholism. The mechanism of the sign is unsettled ; some have regarded it as a crepitation of osseous surfaces on one another from fibrillary contractions of the interossei; others think it is produced in the tendon sheaths. Statements as to its relation to tremor vary ; some assent, and some deny, an associa- tion between the two. LITERATURE. — Fuebingee, Devtsch. med. WocJieiifchi:, No. 27, 1904; Berl. kliii. Wochensclir., May 22, 1905.—Mikoe, ibid., Nos. 18, 19, 20, 21, 1907.—Lautschee, ibid., Nos. 34, 35, 1906. Korsakoff's Psychosis.—This is a peculiar symptom - complex which is most commonly associated with alcoholic peripheral neuritis, but may occur apart from neuritis, and may also result from other intoxications, e.g. chronic lead and arsenic poisoning, infectious diseases, or from senile arterial changes. It may be pre- ceded by delirium tremens, or by alcoholic stupor. The four cardinal mental symptoms are (1) poor retention—inability to impress pass- ing experiences on the memory ; (2) defective memory for recent events; (.3) disorientation in time and space ; (4) and confabulation. Owing to the memory defect actual events are hope- lessly mixed up and described in erroneous sequence and connection, leading to rather fantastic stories. The patient's memory has awkward gaps in it, and he advances ingenious fabrications to bridge over these, and to supple- ment the defects (confabulation). Notwith- standing the disorientation in time and space, the patient reacts fairly well to the immediate surroundings. Korsakoff's psychosis is much more common in women than in men. LITERATURE.—Chapin, Rev. Neiir and Psych., vol. V. p. 172, 1907.—BoNHOEFFEE, Allg. Zeitsch. f. Psych., Sept. 2, 1904. Aleuksemlc Leukaemia. SeeLm- KjEMIA {Atypical Forma). Allelomorphism. See Heredity [Mendel's Law). Allergficl (G-r. aXXa, in another way, and e'pyw, I do work).—A synonym of anaphylaxis {q.v.), introduced by von Pirquet. Alloaesthesia. See Allochiria. Allochiria or Allocheiria.—Dr. Ernest Jones believes that under the term allochiria (the false reference of a point stimu- lated to a corresponding point on the opposite side of the body) two quite different conditions have been placed. There may be a general defect in the localisation of cutaneous stimuli, and to this state the name of allocesthesia is to be given; or there may be a specific defect, in- dependent of any error in localisation—rfysc/ii/ ia —a state in which, independent of any defect in sensorial acuity or in the power of localisation, there is constantly ignorance or error in the patient's mind as to the side of given stimuli. Jones regards dyschiria as divisible into three stages, of which the first and third are quite tempoi'ary and transitional: achiria, in which there is no knowledge of the side of the stimu- lus ; allochiria, in which it is referred to the corresponding point on the opposite side; and synchiria, in which it is referred to both sides. Dyschiria is looked upon as characteristic of hysteria, being a form of psychical dissociation or disaggregation, the cleavage of certain nor- mally associated mental processes. LITERATURE.—i?ev. Keurol. and Psychiat., Aug. and Sept., 1909. Allomorphism (Gr. aAAos, another, jao/3</>/;, form).—A term introduced by Orth to signify a simple morphological change of cells due to mechanical action, as seen in the flatten- ing of cylindrical cells in cysts from the pressure of the cyst contents (Adami, Pathology, i. p. 641, 1910). Aloin Reaction, ^ee Digestive Func- tions, Tests for. Altmann's Granules. — Altmann's granules, also known as plasmasomes or fuch- sinophile granules, are found in most kinds of normal cells, and it is stated that their pres-