74 BRILL'S DISEASE rapid; relapses and serious sequelae are almost unknown. During the progress of the malady there is a good deal of apathy and prostration. The chief objection that may be raised against regarding the disease as a new one is, of course, the fact that it largely depends on negatiA-e signs. Broad Ligraments of the Uterus.—The advances in our knowledge of the broad ligaments of the uterus which have been made during the past few years are most conveniently described under Ectopic Pregnancy, under Pelvis {Diseases of Cellular- Tissue and Peritoneum and Hcematocele), and under Utekus [Displacements and Ivjiamma- tions). The reader is referred to these articles. At the same time, there are one or two matter's which may be alluded to here. The parovarium must still remain among the embryonic relics to which no function has as yet been ascrilied ; it lies, as has been said, on the " dust heap of the useless relics" of the human body. Time will show whether it may not yet be rescued therefrom by some physi- ologist, and placed, like the suprarenal capsule, the thyroid gland, and the pituitary body, among the structures which profoundly influence the working of the whole system by the elabora- tion of an internal secretion or otherwise. In the meantime, its interest is a purely patho- logical one, and it is, owing to its tendency to form cystic growths, a dangerous, or at any rate a troublesome, relic. Varicocele of the broad ligament (parovarian or tubo-ovarian varicocele) is a varicose condition of the veins of the mesosalpinx. Phleboliths in the bi'oad ligament of the utei'us may thus be produced. It is the homologue of varicocele in the male, but appai'ently occurs with much less frequency, perhaps liecause the ovarian veins follow a horizontal instead of a vertical course (Ashton, Gi/verolor/i/, p. 549, 1905). It forms a mass in the broad ligament (usually the left), varying in size from a walnut to a hen's egg, and very often gives rise to no symp- toms, although lancinating pains, obstinate menorrhagia, and recurrent abortion have been recorded. Pain and discomfort are relieved by the recumbent posture, but are made worse by any form of exercise. It is hardly ever diagnosed prior to operation (abdominal section), for its only physical sign is the presence of a soft compressible swelling in the region of the appendages (as detected hy the recto-abdominal bimanual examination), which becomes smaller when the patient lies down. There is always danger of rupture of the enlarged veins, although, of course, pelvic hsemorrhage from this cause is much less frequent than from ectopic pregnancy. If tubo-ovariarr varicocele exist apart fr'om tul)al and ovarian disease, each vein should be tied separately and then the whole mass removed without sacrificing the uterine annexa. Heed's operation (C. A. L. Reed, Gynecology, p. 685, 1904) consists in liga- turing the plexus of veins in sections and in- cising the veins between the ligatures. Of course if the tube or ovary be diseased the ordinary operation of salpingo-oophorectomy is performed. Camusset {These de Lyon, 1908-9) gives a good account of this morbid state of the broad ligament, and Michel arrd Bichat's article {Arch. g^n. de mkl., i. for 1903, p. 1419) may also be referred to. Bromiase.—A combination of bromides with yeast (levurine), stated to be free from the inconvenience of producing bromism. For Report see Lancet, i. for 1910, p. 307. Bromural. — A synthetic hypnotic (a-monobrom-isoval-erylurea), constituting a white crystalline substance, with a slightly bitter taste and nearly insoluble in cold water ; it is claimed to act as a gentle sedative without harmful effects. For Report see British Medical Journal, i. for 1910, p. 388; see also Drugs, Recent. BronchO-OidiOSiS.—A form of bron- chitis in which an oidium {0. tropicale) is pre- sent in the expectoration, of common occurrence in Ceylon ; clinically it presents resemblances to pulmonary tuberculosis, but is to be distin- guished by bacteriology. See Castellani, British Medical Journal, ii. for 1910, p. 868. Bronzed Diabetes. See Hemo- chromatosis. Buddised Milk. 5'ee Infant Feeding {Methods). Budin's IVIethod of infant Feeding^. See Infant Feeding {Methods). Bug^eaud'S Wine. — A proprietary tonic wine, described as " Nutritive-Tonic Wine of Cinchona Bark and Cocoa ;" for analysis see British Medical Journal, i. for 1909, p. 1308. Bumm's iVietliod. See Symphysi OTOMY AND PUBIOTOMY. Burns, X-Ray. See Rontgen Rays {Dangers of). Buttermilk. See Infant Feeding {Buttermilk). BUVO.—A proprietary preparation iir tablet form, stated to contain beef extract combined with the antiscorbutic principles of vegetables. For Report see Lancet, i. for 1910, p. 36. Bynin.—A proprietary malt extract, corr- tainirrg, according to analysis {Hrit. Med. Joxirn., ii. for 1909, p. 1478), 52-9 per cent, of total solids, 51'6 per cent, of reducirrg sugars calcu- lated as maltose, 3'39 per cent, of proteirr, 3'1