391 UTERUS, MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF and a fair estimate of the advantages possessed by the Wertheim oper'ation over simple vaginal hysterectomy and paravaginal section. Over the former operation (vaginal hysterectomy) Wertheim's panhysterectomy has the advantage of a far greater range of operability, and much larger number of permanent cures; but the primary mortality is higher. In other words, the patient runs a greater risk but has a better chance of permanent cure. The advantage would seem to be largely due to the removal of the parametrium in the Wertheim procedure, and to the thorough way in which the vagina is dealt with. Schauta's paravaginal section (Mouatssch./. Gehurtsh. u. Gy7idk., xix. p. 475, 1904), the operation devised in 1893 by Schuchardt, enables hysterectomy to be per- formed by the vaginal route, and at the same time secures free access to the parametrium which is to be removed. The pai'avaginal incision is " begun in the left vaginal vault, at about the level of the cervix, and is carried forward through the left paravaginal and pararectal tissues, the left labium, the left levator ani and coccygeus muscles, the cellular tissue of the left ischio-rectal fossa, and the skin of the perineum and of the lateral anal region back to the sacrum." Bleeding from the incision is dealt with by fine catgut ligatures. "The next step in the operation is to circumcise the vaginal wall at the junction of the upper with the middle third of the vagina, and dissect it off from the rectum and bladder. This cuff of vagina is then sewed over the cervix so as to shut off the cancerous area from the operative field. The ends of the ligatures employed for this purpose are left long and are used as tractors to control the position of the cervix. The cervix is now separated entirely from the bladder and ureters, and the vesico-uterine pouch is entered. Douglas's pouch is opened, and the dissection of the parametrium from the ureter and pelvic wall, the isolation and ligature of the uterine artery, etc., is begun. After the uterus and parametrium have been removed, the anterior and posterior leaflets of the peritoneum are united by suture, and the paravaginal incision is closed. Vaginal drainage is used " (Henrotin in Kelly and Noble's Gynecology and Abdomwml Surgery, i. p. 789, 1907). There would seem to be, according to Berkeley {loc. cit., p. 156), a general opinion that Schauta's paravaginal section is more difficult than Wertheim's operation, that its primary mortality is as great, that the percentage of operability is less, and that the percentage of cures is also less; at the same time Sir W. J. Sinclair (Journ. Obstet. and Gynmc. Brit. Emp., ix. p. 241, 1906) is strongly in favour of it. Both Wer- theim's panhysterectomy and the Schuchardt- Schauta paravaginal section are long and complicated operative procedures, but they are directed towards the complete removal of cancer of the uterus, and as the end is a great one, so the means by which it is to be reached may be expected to be arduous. The fact that Polosson had 36 consecutive cases of Wertheim's operation without a death does much to remove the dread of a high operative mortality (Berkeley, loc. cit., p. 168). Until some way of preventing cancer or of dealing with it by non-surgical means be found, the gynecologist must be prepared to use the methods which surgery provides. Uterus, Non-Maiig'nant Tumours of. FiBRO-MYOMATA 391 Etiology 391 Prognosis . . . . . .392 Degenerative Changes .... 392 Treatment . .' . . . . 392 During the past few years the chief advances that have been made in coiuiection with fibroid tumours or fibro-myomata of the uterus have been an extension of their operative treatment by abdominal sub-total hysterectomy and a clearer realisation of the dangers which may arise if they are left alone (as used to be done) until the menopause. Etiology.—Whilst it cannot be said that the causation of fibroids of the uterus is yet dis- covered, there is a general tendency to regard them as associated in some way or other with irregularities in the performance of the repro- ductive functions. Pinard {Ann. de gynec. et d'obstet., 2 S. ii. p. 1, 1905) believes they are connected with disuse rather than with use or abuse of the genital organs, and he thinks that the most evident predisposing cause is failure to permit the process of reproduction to pass through its usual stages on to its legitimate and proper conclusion. In other words, im- pregnation should be followed by pregnancy and a full-time labour, and labour should be succeeded by lactation. Further, late marriage (opsigamy) and secondary sterility have some- thing to do with the development of uterine fibroids, as is shown by the fact that out of 171 cases in which these growths complicated labour, no less than 94 were primiparee, and of them 80 were thirty years old or more; of the total number 85 per cent, had married late in life. Pinard puts his conclusion into an easily remembered phrase when he says, when you have to do with a primipara of thirty years or more in the labour room, cherchez le fibrome, and he adds that it is sterility that causes fibroids rather than fibroids that cause sterility. Alongside these facts one must jrat the records of uterine fibroids in two or more of the sai.ie family, suggesting family prevalence, if not heredity. Doran, for instance, operated by