186 HERPES ZOSTER of the condition is apt to be overlooked. This is especially so from the associated auditory symptoms, the inflamed condition of the auricle being put down to a secondary infection from a middle ear discharge. REFERENCE.—Ramsay Hunt, Ainer. Journ. Med. Sci., Aug. 1908. Herpetomonas.—*S'ee Protozoa. Heterochylia.—A form of hyperchlor- hydria of nei vous origin in which the degree of acidity varies with the nervous symptoms. Heterolysins.—Lysins which are active in another species, in contrast to isolysins where the activity is seen in the same species. Hexamethylene - tetramine. 'l ilt chemical name for urotropin, known also as formamine and hexamethylenamine : (CH.,)6N4. Hexone Bases. — Kossel's name for the nitrogen—containing amino-bodies, histidin, arginin, and lysin, for the reason that they all contain six carbon atoms (viz. histidin = CfiHgNjOo; arginin = CuHj^NjOs; Ivsin = C,H„N.A). Hirschsprung^'s Disease. — Idio- pathic dilatation of the colon, or megacolon, or ectocolon, causing chronic constipation of a most inveterate type ; it was first described by Hirschsprung in 1886, but isolated cases had been reported by other observers before that year, and Finney {Ann. of Surg., xlvii. p. 1062, 1908), writing in 1908, was able to pass in review over two hundred references to the subject. The outstanding pathological change is dilatation and hypertrophy of the large intestine; the sigmoid flexure is the part most often aftected, thus in ninety cases summarised by Lowenstein {Centralbl. f. allg. Path. u. path. Anat.,x\m.T^. 929,1907)andLorenz(Diss, inaug., Leipzig, 1909) there were eighty-five in which the sigmoid flexure was involved; the transverse colon was not so often affected, and the ascend- ing colon still less frequently. Many theories of causation have been advanced, but none of them explains all the cases ; in many instances it is certainly either congenital or the result of congenital anomalies. The intestine itself as well as the mesentery is usually elongated. The diagnosis of the morbid state is made from the symptoms (constipation or coprostasis, long periods intervening between successive actions of the bowels, a tympanitic note over the abdomen, upward displacement of the heart and lungs, obliteration of the liver dulness, etc.), and by the use of bismuth and the Rontgen rays. Medical treatment is almost of no use ; but surgery holds out a hope of benefit, even of cure, thus in forty-one cases which were operated upon, cure followed in sixteen and improvement in six (Lorenz). Various surgical procedures have been tried. Resection seems to offer the best chance ; the affected loop may be excised, the cut ends closed, and then a lateral anastomosis effected ; or an anastomosis may be made between the transverse colon and the descending loop of the sigmoid flexure ; or a preliminary enterostomy (ileostomy, cseco- stomy) may be done, followed by a colocolo- stomy some months later, and then by complete excision (Finney); plication (coloplieation) and replication of the surface of the intestine may be done, especially when the dilatation is marked, and when resection and anastomosis are impossible (Freeman, Ann. Surg., xlvii. p. 1063, 1908); or appendicostomy with washing out of the colon through the tube every day maj' be practised with relief of symptoms, as in one of Spencer's cases {Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1910, p. 545). One is justified in trying these more or less extensive operations, for the prognosis of the condition is bad, the mortality being69per cent, accordingto Murphy (Kelly and Noble's Gynecology, ii. p. 386, 1908). A well- written account of the disease is from the pen of D. P. D. Wilkie {Edin. Med. Journ., n.s., iii. pp. 203-230, 1909). Hirudin.—The active principle of the salivary secretion of the leech, which has the power of preventing clotting of the blood. Histidin.—A protone body obtained by hydrolysis from sturin (the protamine got from the sperm of the sturgeon), thus CasHggNigOj-f 5 H„0 = QEgNjO, (histidin) + 3 QHuN^O^ (arginin) + 2 CeHi4N.,0., (lysin). Histolysis.—The process of dissolution of a tissue (Gr. idToc, a web or tissue, and XxjGig, a setting free), as seen normally in the atrophy of the thymus after the second year of life, in that of the milk teeth later, and in that of the uterine musculature after labour, and abnormally in various degenerations and infiltrations. Histoplasmosis.—An infectious dis- ease of Central America resembling the kala- azar of India; it is due to the invasion of the endothelium of the smaller lymph, and blood- vessels, and capillaries, by a micro-organism {Histoplasma capsulatum), showing resem- blances to the Leishman-Donovan body of kala-azar, but differing from it in the form and arrangement of its chromatin laicleus, and in not possessing a chromatin rod ; the mode of infection and portal of entry are unknown ; the clinical features are splenomegaly, ema- ciation, irregular pyrexia, leucopenia, and ansemia; and it has proved very fatal. See