KALA. has made no such strides as our knowledge of its pathology. The mortality comes within sight of 100 per cent. Rogers advises the persistent, patient use of large doses of quinine ; he gives 60 grs. a day until the temperature falls, and then continues with smaller doses for many months. Under this treatment it is said that recovery takes place in a larger percentage of cases than by any other method. LITERATURE.—Leishman, Brit. Med. Journ., 30th May 1903 ; 26th Feb. 1901.—Donovan, Ibid., 11th July 1903.—Ross, Ibid., Uth Nov. 1903.—Manson and Low, Ibid., 23rd Jan. 1904 —Roger, Ibid., 28th May 1904.— Milroy Lectures, ibid., 23rd Feb., 2nd March, and 9th March 1907. —NicoLLE and Casshto, Presse mtd. (Paris), 8th Feb. 1908.—Bentley, Indian Med. Gazette, March 1904. Kangri Ca.ncer.—Kangri burn cancer is believed to be due to the irritation on the thighs and abdomen caused by the Kangri basket (a portable fire basket) carried under the clothes by the people in Kashmir; it is a typical squamous-celled epithelioma, with a malignancy which is slight in the early stages, with slow invasion of glands, and very amenable to operative treatment, but with, in the later stages, involvement of the deep glands and in- operability. E. E. Neve {Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1910, pp. 589-591) regards its occurrence as a fact opposed to the parasitic theory of cancer. See also-5rii!. Med. Journ., ii. for 1910, pp. 629, 912. Karell " IVIilk-Cure."—A mode of treating obesity, consisting in the taking of a tumblerful of milk four or five times a day at intervals of 2|- hours, for from 5 to 8 days; the patient is in bed during the whole period, is generally massaged, and may take an apple or an orange during the last two or three days of the treatment; there is usually a great loss in weight (from 8 to 11 lbs. in the week); it may be followed by an "after-cure," or period in which the milk is diminished and the patient is allowed small quantities of sausage, bread, lean meat, and vegetables, prepared without fat. Strauss (Med. Klhi., vi. pp. 500-503, 1910) is of opinion that a modified form of this treat- ment (a miniature Karell cure), which can be repeated at intervals of some weeks or months, may give better results than the longer periods. See also L. Roemheld, Monatschr. f. d. phys.- diatet. Heilmeth., i. p. 32, 1909; and Lancet, \\. for 1908, p. 979. Karyolobism.—The conditions found in the nucleus of cells, e.g. leucocytes, in respect to the number and character of the lobes ; Arneth, for instance, has used the number of the nuclear lobes as a means of classifying the polymorphonuclear neutrophiles of the blood into five groups. KaryolysiS.—The disappearance of the -AZAR 219 nucleus of the cell taking place in one of two ways : in one the nucleus swells up, becomes vesicular or cedematous, stains with nuclear dyes less and less markedly until it cannot be distinguished from the cytoplasm, e.g. in cloudy swelling; in the other (known as pathological chromidiation) minute bodies, which at first stain and later lose this power, pass out from the nucleus into the cytoplasm, and the nucleus itself in time becomes almost invisible, e.g. in the liver cells in phosphorus poisoning. See Adami, Pathology, i. p. 52, 1910. KaryorrhexiS.—An intracellular change consisting in disappearance of the nucleus through breaking down of the nuclear mem- brane, disintegration of the nucleus, and dis- charge of chromatin into the cell substance ; it differs in nature from karyolysis, but produces the same result. Kasauii Institute. — The Pasteur Institute in North India, near Simla, for the treatment of hydrophobia; there is another Institute at Coonoor in South India. Katabiotic.—The property possessed by cells of dissipating stored up energy in the form of functions other than growth, e.g. pro- ducing heat or nervous action ; it is opposed to bioplastic, but the energy in each is obtained from the assimilated food. Kataplasia.—The term introduced by Beneke to signify reversionary degeneration or metamorphosis of cells in which these structures (highly organised cells) lose their specific char- acters and come to simulate those possessed by the developing cell ; this is seen in striated muscular fibres, e.g. at the edge of an invading neoplasm; kataplasia differs from anaplasia, in that the power to return to the normal difTer- entiation is preserved, whereas it is lost in anaplasia. See Adami, Pathology, i. p. 878, 1910. Kathrein's Test.—A method of testing the urine for biliary pigments : to a few drops of urine rendered acid (if necessary) by acetic acid, a 1 per cent, alcoholic solution of iodine is added, so that the latter rests upon the former with a distinct line of contact; at this line an emerald-green colour is developed if bilirubin or any other bile pigment is present; a fallacy is to be guarded against if antipyrin and some other drugs are present; it is also known as Trousseau's test, and as Smith's test. Kations. — See Cataphoresis ; Ionic Medication ; Ionisation. Kawa.—A resin extracted from the root of Pij^er methysticiwi, and entering into the