274 NEPHRITIS, TREATMENT OF ment of salt, as estimated by the quantity- excreted by subjects who are fasting, is about ■6 gram daily, and this loss is more than replaced by the amount—1-5 to 2 grams— naturally present in an average mixed diet. In health, the body remains in a state of chloride equilibrium, the amount eliminated daily corresponding with what is ingested. All the tissues of the body are bathed in saline fluid, and it is imperative that the osmotic pressure, or concentration, of this should remain constant. The negative action of physiological salt-solution on the tissue cells as compared with the deleterious effects of stronger or weaker solutions is an illustration of this. Variations in the quantity of salt in the body must therefore be compensated for, and this is done, partly by the retention of enough water to keep it in solution of normal strength, and partly by the eliminatory action of the kidneys. If a healthy man be given a diet free from added salt he continues for several days to eliminate a quantity exceeding that ingested, losing weight the while ; at the end of that time chloride equilibrium — i.e. output equals intake—is restored and the weight remains stationary. The addition of a fixed ration of salt causes the weight to rise again, and there is a corresponding retention of chloride before equilibrium is re-established. From such experiments it has been shown that about 12 grams of sodium chloride and 1'5 to 2 kilos of water represent the floating quantity lost by a normal adult in the process of dechlorination. Owing to the ability of the kidneys to excrete chlorides freely, large doses are tolerated in health, yet the power of even the normal organ has its limits, and the habitual consumption of quantities of salt in excess of the renal capacity may, per se, lead to retention of salt, and oedema from the excess of water required to keep it in isotonic solution. In many forms of nephritis the kidneys become impermeable to sodium chloride, salt is retained in the tissues, and dropsy ensues. Patients with Bright's disease, swollen with dropsy, often lose weight steadily and recover from their dropsy when put on a diet containing no added salt. On adding salt the weight rises, and the oedema disappears. In such a case it will be found that on each addition or subtrac- tion of salt with its rise or fall in the weight curve, there is a definite level at which visible oedema makes its appearance. Widal calls the period during which the weight is rising towards this point the pre-ce-dematous period; it repre- sents the accumulation of fluid in the viscera. The kidneys, like the other viscera, suffer from the effects of interstitial oedema, and there is reason to believe that in curing this renal oedema we break a link in the chain of a vicious circle, in which the renal inadequacy produces a lesion of the kidney which still further im- pairs the efficiency of the organ. Thus, in removing oedema by dechlorination we are doing more than merely treating a sj'mptom. Whatever be the precise explanation, it is certain that a dropsical patient, whose kidneys are impervious to very small quantities of chloride, may, after dechlorination has abolished the dropsjr, regain part, at least, of his power of eliminating salt, and along with this there may be a marked diminution in the albuminuria. Dechlorination is said to be occasionally attended by nervous symptoms resembling those of urae- mia ; they are, however, rare and temporary. The practice of dechlorination is simple, and, contrary to what might be anticipated, patients do not rebel against being deprived of salt. Milk contains about 1 '6 grams of salt per litre, which is equivalent to about 5-6 grams in an ordinary daily ration. Although this consider- ably exceeds the proportion naturally present in a mixed diet, it is much inferior to the quantity habitually consumed as added salt (15 to 20 grams), and probably some of the efficacy of milk in the treatment of nephritis is as much due to its comparative poverty in chloride as to any spesial attribute of its chlorine content. In strict dechlorination recourse must be had to a mixed diet, which may be selected from among the following, cooked without the addi- tion of salt:—Fresh meat of all kinds, fresh- water fish, eggs, fresh butter, cream, potatoes, farinacese generally, sweets, vegetables, and fruit. The only article which requires special fabrication is bread ; as ordinarily baked it con- tains from "8 to 1 per cent, of salt; this, there- fore, must be omitted. Home-made scones, free from salt, may be used instead. Soups, sea-water fish, all forms of salted or preserved foods, cheese, and milk, are proscribed. In practice, Widal allows from 3| to 7 ozs. of meat daily, with cereals, eggs, etc., as the appetite demands. Patients subjected to dechlorination should be kept in bed until the weight ceases falling and becomes stationary. Should dehydration be slow, it may be assisted by diuretics, par- ticularly theobromine. To gauge the amount of fluid (and chlorides) lost, daily weighing is essential, and replaces chloride estimations. Biancardi (Ann. di ostet. e ginec, ii. for 1905, p. 641) and Cramer {Monatssch. f. (Jehurtsh. u. Gynak., xxiii. p. 437, 1906) reported cases of parenchymatous nephritis in pregnancy which improved markedly on chloride-free diet. Dechlorination has been successfully employed in all forms of dropsy, cardiac and hepatic as well as renal, in oedema of the legs from exertion, phlegmasia, etc. The rationale of its action is the same in all such .cases. Decapsulation of the Kidneys (Edebohl's operation) has been employed in the treatment of nephritis, but the operation is now generally