HEMOCHROMATOSIS WITH DIABETES 168 Bronzed diabetes was originally described by Hanot and ChaufFard in 1882, and the majority of French clinicians look on the diabetes as primary: the diabetic alteration of the blood causes a destruction of the red cells, with deposition of blood pigment in the skin and viscera. In 1899 v. Recklinghausen described a general pigmentation of the viscera under the name hfemochromatosis. The tissues contained two varieties of pigment: hasmosiderin, which contains iron, and is found in the glands, liver, pancreas, and skin ; and hsemofuscin, which is iron-free, and is found in some of the other viscera. The deposit of hsemosiderin in the cells of the liver and pancreas leads to cirrhosis, and when the islands of Langerhans are seri- ously involved, to diabetes. The ultimate cause of hsemochromatosis is unknown. It may be due to a toxic haemolysis or to a dis- turbance of iron metabolism leading to reten- tion in the system. It is also a disputed point whether the cirrhosis is due to the deposit of hajmosiderin or to the action of the hypoth- etical toxic agent which causes haemolysis. Clinically, the disease seems generally to be recognised when diabetes has developed. Futcher describes the appearance of his second case thus: " One was immediately struck by the remarkable pigmentation of the skin. This was most marked over the face, neck, and hands, where the skin had a very dark brown colour. The skin of the whole body was much more pigmented than normal, and there was intensification of the colour in the axillae. . . . There was no pigmentation of the sclerotics, nor of the buccal mucous membrane." A portion of skin removed showed the presence of hsemosiderin in the sweat glands. REFERENCES.—Opie, Trans. Assoc. Amer. Physn., p. 253, 1899.—Futcher, Ibid., p. 278, 1906. Both these papers have bibliographies. Hasmocla,StiCS.—Bodies which act on red blood cells, causing their dissolution and the setting free of their haemoglobin ; haemolytics. HaemoCOnien.—See H^MOKONIA (En- cyclop, and Diet. Med., Vol. IV. p. 35). Hsemo'fuscin. — See H.^:mochroma- TOSIS. HsemoiTlobinuria, Paroxysmal. —Some interesting light has been thrown by Eason on the pathology of this disease, and his work suggests a possible line of treatment. He found, in the first place, that the blister serum of a hiiBmoglobinuric patient, taken in the intervals between the paroxysms, partially dissolved normal blood corpuscles in vitro, interfered with the formation of rouleaux, and lessened the amount of fibrin deposited on standing. Serum obtained during a paroxysm lysed both normal corpuscles, and those of the patient himself; the latter were more markedly affected than the former. The amount of haemo- lysis produced was greatly influenced by tem- perature; it did not occur at 37° C, at room temperature it was definite, and at 1° C. it was extreme. Serum which was heated to 56° C. for half an hour lost its power of pro- ducing haemolysis ; in this respect it is com- parable to an ordinary haemolytic serum (see Immunity, p. 192), its activity depending, pre- sumably, on its containing a thermostable amboceptor and a thermolabile complement. Shortly after Eason's work was accomplished Donath and Landsteiner recorded some quite independent experiments, which confirmed his observations, and showed, in addition, that a low temperature was essential for the union of amboceptor and red blood corpuscles. Eason's next series of experiments showed that haemoglobinuric serum lysed corpuscles when it was allowed to act on them first at a low temperature, then at body temperature. During the period of low temperature the amboceptor unites to the corpuscles, but the complement cannot link itself to the amboceptor; in order that it may do so, a higher temperature is needed. As in the case of ordinary haemolytic serums, inactivated haemoglobinuric serum may be activated by the addition of fresh normal serum containing complement. According to these observations the paroxysmal haemo- globinuria is due to the existence in the blood of a potential toxin, consisting of haemolytic amboceptor and complement, the potential toxin only becoming active under special con- ditions of temperature. Atmospheric cold and stasis of the peripheral circulation reduces the temperature of the blood localh'^ sufficiently to permit of the union of amboceptor and cor- puscles, and the further union with complement (= haemolysis) I'apidly occurs when the blood returns to the internal organs. By immunising guinea-pigs (the serum of which does not haemolyse human blood cor- puscles) with the inactivated serum of a haemo- globinuric patient, Eason obtained an anti- amboceptor serum. The antiserum neutralised (in vitro) the lytic action of the original haemo- globinuric serum, and also that of the serum of a second haemoglobinuric patient. The obsei - vation shows that the haemolytic amboceptor of paroxysmal haemoglobinuriacs is a specific body, and suggests that it may pro\'e feasible to procure an antitoxin. LITERATURE. — Eason, Edin. Med. Journ., xi.x. p. 43, 1906 ; Scott. Med. and Surg. Journ., May 1906 ; Journ. Path, and Bact., 1906. — Donath and Land- STKINER, Miinch. med. Wochensch., 1590, 1904. Haemolysis. — See Immunity (Anti- bacterial Action). Haemopsonins.—See Immunity.