94 CATAPHORESIS skin in order that the current may pass uni- formly through it. The indiflferent electrode is connected with a basin of salt solution in which the patient places his hand. The active elec- trolyte is placed over the part it is desired to treat; its size is governed by the size of the ulcer, fistula, joint, etc. The object of using so many thicknesses of lint is to prevent burning of the skin, which is apt to occur when elec- trodes covered only with a thin piece of chamois- leather, or the like, are used. The current is gradually raised to as much as the patient can l)ear (40-60 ma.), and this is kept up for half an hour, then slowly reduced to zero. Turner gives the following list of maladies in which ionic medication has been used with more or less success :—Rodent ulcer, sinuses and listuliB, strictures, fibrous adhesions, tic douloureux, neuralgia, sciatica, I'heumatism, gouty condi- tions. Especially good results have been obtained in rodent ulcer from the introduction of zinc ions. A 5 per cent, solution of zinc .sulphate is used at the anode, applied on lint over the ulcer. Chronic ulcers, listula3, etc., are treated in the same way. Copper ions have been used in sycosis, CI ions in all forms of chronic fibroid change—e.g. Dupuytren's con- traction, stricture, and even sclerosis of the cord. Salicylic ions have l)een used in rheu- matic afiections, lithium ions in gout, iodine ions in chronic jjleuritic thickening. The method of cataphoresis has ol^viously many possibilities. LITERATURE.—Le Due. Brit. Med. Journ., 4th .Sept. 1907.—Dawson Turner. 764tli April 1908 ; Ediii. Med. Journ., April 1908. Ca.vernoma..—A blood-vascular tumour or a)igioma, not uncommonly found in the liver, sometimes congenital in origin, consisting of blood spaces lined with endothelium; it varies in size from that of a pea to that of an orange, or even larger. C£lvita.tion.—The formation of a vomica or cavity in the lung (e.r/. in tuberculosis). This tei'm is not found in Mvm'ay's A^eiu Enfjliah Dictionary, in Appleton's Medical Dictionary, nor in Gould's Practitioners' M&lical Dictionary, but it is creeping into common use. Ceila.Sin. — A proprietary preparation, stated to ho. a ferment prepai'ed from the culti- vation of fungi, and to be capable of resolving sugar and starch into lactic acid. It is claimed that the change is due to an enzyme and not to bacteria. It is stated to pass unaifected through the stomach and to exert an emulsifying effect upon fats in the alkaline environment of the intestine. It is recommended in tuberculosis and wasting diseases. See reports in Lancet, ii. for 1910, p. 895, and in Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc., li. p. 931, 1908. Cerebellum, Symptomatolog^y of Tumours of (See also Encyclop. and Diet., i. p. .526).—This subject has been exhaustively studied l)y Grainger Stewart and Holmes, whose paper is basecl on an analysis of forty cases. Their series is divided into intra-cerebellar and extra-cerebellar (cerebello- pontine angle) tumours. Vertigo.—When definite vertigo is present (indefinite giddiness is of no localising value) it consists either {a) of a sensation of the rotation of external objects, or {li) of a sen- sation of self-rotation. In {a) objects appear to move in front of the patient from the side of the lesion to the sound side. In (li) the movement is from the lesion to the sound side in cases of intra-cerebellar tumour; from the healthy to the diseased side in extra-cerebellar tumour. Deafness. — Some homolateral deafness always accompanies extra-cerebellar tumour; it is rare in intra-cerebellar tumour. Ocular Symptoms.—Nystagmusis invariable in both classes of tumour. Typically, it is a slow, jerking moA^ement towards the side of the lesion on looking in that direction. Motor Symptoms.—Homolateral hemiparesis is one of the most definite symptoms of uni- lateral cerebellar tumour. It is an atonic paresis, and is not accompanied by organic rigidity. The limbs are hypotonic, assume unusual j)ositions during rest, and the muscles are flabby. Hypotonicity is best marked in early cases of acute onset, or when the cere- bellum has been considei'ably damaged at operation. The hypotonicity is not associated with any constant change in the reflexes. Cerebellar ataxy diff"ers from that of tabes in being due to a lack of accurate co-operation and association of individual muscular con- tractions, not to impairment of the muscular sense and sense of position. It is not increased when the patient shuts his eyes. Ataxia appears only with active movement, and does not increase towards the completion of an act. In lesions of one lobe the inco-ordination is homolateral (though the other side may be slightly affected); in lesions of the vermis the inco-ordination is bilateral, or more pronounced on one or other side as the effect of the tumour varies. DiADOCOClNESlA.—A phenomenon described by Babinski as pathognomonic of cerebellar tumour, consisting of an inability to perform accurately and rapidly alternate movements— e.g. pronation and supination—is common, but is not, Stewart and Holmes think, either pathog- nomonic of cerebellar tumour, or constant. Homolateral Tremor is frequent in extra- cerebellar tumour ; absent in cerebellar tumour. Gait.—There is a tendency (a) to stumble towards the lesion, and (b) to deviate from a straight path towards the lesion. Patients