225 LABOUR, INDUCTION OF PREMATURE Csesarean section necessitate, and if a lower foetal and infantile mortality could be achieved it would soon become almost as popular as it is now neglected. Already there are signs of a lessened foetal mortality (Scheftczyk, Arch, f. Gynaek., Ixxv. p. 633, 1905), a hopeful indication for the future. Many other indications for the induction of premature labour are commonly enumerated, such as nephritis, heart disease (valvular), blood diseases, chorea, hyperemesis, and hydramnios ; but these stand on quite a different platform from that occupied by pelvic contractions. In most of the conditions named the primary question to be asked is whether the interrup- tion of pregnancy is to be recommended in order to save the mother's life ; if this be answered in the affirmative, then the age of the pregnancy will have to be taken into account, for it may be that the foetus is not yet viable, and that consequently an induction of abortion, not of premature labour, will re- quire to be practised. In a word, the life of the unborn infant is not relatively of such importance in this group of indications ; we are operating not so much for the purpose of getting a woman a living child as for that of saving a woman's life without immediate refer- ence to the existence of her foetus. It is quite a different category of cases ; and the question to be settled is, whether the disease from which the patient is suffering has so serious a prog- nosis, and depends to so large an extent upon the pregnancy itself, as to warrant the artificial terminating of the latter. The general trend of obstetric opinion and practice would seem to be greatly to limit the acceptance of these maladies of pregnancy as indications for the termination of gestation, and to encourage the treatment, by medical or surgical means, of the diseases themselves. Of course this conclusion presupposes the putting forth by the profession of a more determined and sustained effort to understand the etiology, pathogenesis, and nature of the maladies which are endangering the mother's life. The study of the pathology of pregnancy must be prosecuted if we are to prevent or cure the diseases peculiar to that state. At the present time, unhappily, the mother is too often allowed to come within sight of death, and then a consultation is asked for to determine whether induction of labour or abortion shall be practised or not; in many cases, especially, perhaps, in those of hyper- emesis and chorea gravidarum, it is already too late to discuss the question, and the patient is doomed whether the operation be performed or not. Early recognition of the gravity of such maladies is necessary, and each case must be decided on its own merits. The ideal treat- ment, of course, will be the cure of the disease with continuance of the pregnancy, and the birth at a latei' date of a living infant. W. Bokel- mann's article (Samml. zw. Ahh. aus d. Gebiet d. Frauenh. u. Gebiirtsh., vii., No. 6,1907) indicates a strong tendency towards the limitation of the induction of labour or abortion as a means of treating the maladies which may complicate pregnancy ; and Williamson (Journ. Obntet. and Gyncec. Brit. Emp., viii. p. 252, 1905; ix. p, 184, 1906), who has admirably summarised and digested recent literature, ends his contribution with the warning words that "in many of the conditions discussed it is only under exceptional circumstazices that the premature termination of pregnancy is the necessary or proper treat- ment." It may be added that Schauta (Journ. Ohstet. and GyncKc. Brit. Emp., xv. p. 318, 1909) regards the artificial induction of labour as an atypical method of treatment (both for contracted pelvis and for medical causes), and puts in its place Cesarean section, hebosteo- tomy, or expectant treatment; he would re- strict its use to cases "in which the mother is suffering from illness and Csesarean section or hebosteotomy at the normal term would be too dangerous, or where it is positively known that the children are abnormally large, or the mother absolutely refuses an operation." This may be taken as the extreme German view. We may now pass to the consideration of the methods of inducing premature labour. It may almost be stated that these resolve themselves into two alternatives—bougie or bag; and it may be added that most obstetricians precede the use of either by preparatory vaginal douch- ing. But whilst this really summarises current opinion and practice fairly accurately, it is necessary to refer, in a few words, to two other plans. When Bossi's metallic dilator of the cervix was introduced into obstetrics, more especially for the rapid emptying of the uterus in eclampsia, it was not long before the sugges- tion was made that it might be equally well employed for the induction of premature labour in cases of narrow pelvis. Many obstetricians so employed it, and converted a labour lasting sometimes 3 or 4 days (when a bougie was used) into an operation of a few hours. This can hardly be called induction of labour, it is rather to be described as accouchement force; and it is generally conceded now that whatever may be the verdict upon the value of Bossi's dilator in other circumstances it is neither a suitable nor a safe means of inducing labour. It is well to bear in mind, as Hannes {Miinch. med. Wochensch., liv. p. 1974, 1907) pithily puts it, that while the labour should be artificially induced it ought not to be artificially completed. The other plan for the induction of labour to which reference must be made is tapping the membranes and drawing off the liquor amnii. This is an old method, and it has been carried out in two ways, either by puncturing the mem- branes with a sound passed through the cervical canal or by perforating them above the os 15