FRACTURES 159 pain in the parts distal to the bandage, and swelling and discoloration from congestion. When the bandage is loosened these signs dis- appear, but the damage may have already l^een done, and the deformity slowly develops. The deformity produced resembles the mai7i en (jriffe of the neurologists, the wrist being flexed, the proximal phalanges extended, and the distal phalanges flexed. If the contracture is beginning the splints should be removed from the ai m altogether, and an attempt should be made to prevent the contracture of the fingei's by applying small metal splints to each. Sub- sequently, the fingers being kept straight, the attempt should be made to overcome the flexion of the wrist. When the contractvu'e is established, the best line of treatment is to shorten the bones, or lengthen the tendons, of the forearm. Greig {Edin. Med. Journ., June 1910) states that the results of operation are not gr-atifying, and concludes that in ischajmic paralysis pre- vention is better than cure. For full literature and list of cases see Thomas, Annals of Sv.rgery, 1909, xlix. p. 330. Fracture of the Ribs, complicated hy Ileus.— Adams {Annals of Surgery, li. 1910, p. 102) records two cases of fracture of the ribs fol- lowed by paralytic obstruction of the bowels, due, it is believed, to irritation of the sympathetic chain by the displaced fragments. Both patients suffered from acute obstruction, and were oper- ated on ; one died. The operation advised for this and other forms of paralytic obstruction is to make an incision close to the umbilicus, and to pass a No. 12 catheter into the lumen of the ileum. The relief required to overcome this state of paralysis is only temporary, and the main object of the operation is to provide for the safe exit of the imprisoned gas. If peri- stalsis is re-established there is little likelihood of the small opening failing to close spon- taneously if the catheter be removed after a few days. One of the chief objections to ileostomy—viz. that if the opening be made high up in the small intestine, the patient may go downhill from inanition before the bowel can be closed ; this second operation, moreover, being often delayed on account of the soreness and auto-digestion of the tissue round the artificial opening—is removed if the operation be performed on the above lines. Freezing".—See Lupus Erythematocus {Freezing) ; N^VI. Freud's M e t h o d.—See Psycho- analysis. Frohlich's Syndrome.—Dystrophia adiposa genitalis, or the group of symptoms often observed in tumours of the pituitary gland ; in this group are defective sexual power, hypoplasia of the genital organs, absence of sexual hair, a deposit of fat in large amount, and other features of eunuchism. These phenomena could be experimentally produced in animals by the removal of part of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland. See Pituitary Gland. Frommer's Dilator.—5ee Accouche- ment FoRCJ?;. FuigUration.—The electric discharge as seen in nature in the lightning flash; in the form of electric sparking it has been used, after surgical operation, as a local application in the treatment of malignant tumours, having been introduced in 1907 by de Keating-Hart {Comp. rend. Soc. de hiol., Paris, Ixii. p. 323, 1907 ; Marseille med., xliv. pp. 216, 306, 339, 1907 ; Rev. de therap. med.- chir., Ixxiv. p. 685, 1907 ; Bull. Soc. de dermat. et SypJi., xix. p. 118, 1908 ; Arch, d'electr. med., xvi. pp. 371, 773, 1908 ; Arch, internal, dechir., iv. p. 3, 1908-9 ; Arch. Roentg. Ray, xiii. p. 132, 1908-9 ; Anjou med., xvi. p. 129, 1909 ; Btdl. et Mem. Soc. de chir. de Paris, N. S., xxxvi. p. 820, 1910) and named fulguration by Pozzi ; the results of fulguration have hardly fulfilled expectation, although the procedure has been tried in many places by clinicians {Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1909, p. 1174.) Funicuiitis, Endemic.—Under this name Aldo Castellani {Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1909, p. 780) has described a suppurative condition of the spermatic cord occurring in Ceylon {Ceylon Med. Rep., 1904-7 ; Lancet, ii. for 1908, p. 15); the same disease was met with in Egypt by F. C. Madden and denomin- ated "cellulitis of the spermatic cord" {Lancet, i. for 1907, p. 505) ; and the names "corditis" or " phlebitis of the cord" have also been given to it. The symptomatology resembles that of strangulated inguinal hernia ; there is severe pain in the lower part of the abdomen, along the cord and the epididymis, and a large cylindrical swelling is found there running into the external inguinal ring; the skin covering the swelling is oedematous, and the swelling itself is hard and firm and cannot be reduced, gives no impulse on coughing, and a dull note on percussion ; if not operated on the condition becomes rapidly serious, and general septica;mia develops, followed by death in a few days. A chronic type has been described by D. K. Coutts {Lancet, i. for 1909, p. 227). In its pathology the disease is characterised by inflammation and infiltration of the whole spermatic cord, often extending to the epididymis but not to the testicle ; the other lesions found were those of septicsemia. A diplostreptococeus was found by Castellani in the pus of the veins of the pampiniform plexus, and the same micro - organism was