IMMUNITY 193 amboceptors concerned in such phenomena 1 Ehrlich has shown that the latter is the true state of affairs, and that it is possible by immunising animals with cells, both from different organs and from various species, to obtain a great variety of specific cytotoxic sera, each with its own amboceptor. But when we come to ask the same question concerning the complement, we do not get so clear an answer. Ehrlich holds that complements, like ambo- ceptors, are multiple; while Bordet adheres to the view that the complement is single. This and many other problems as yet await solution, and the complexity of the issues is too great to admit of any summary which would be at once brief and comprehensible. All observers are agreed as to the actual facts mentioned above, and at this we may leave the matter. The essential facts of hsemolysis hold good for the organisms of typhoid and dysentery as well as cholera, and we are justified in believing that other antibacterial serums act in a similar manner. (2) Agglutination.—The phenomena of ag- glutination were brought into general notice by the work of Durham, G-rliber, and Widal, which established the value of the agglutination test in the diagnosis of typhoid fever. When an antibacterial serum is added to an emulsion of the corresponding organism, the bacteria no longer remain diffused through the emulsion, but aggregate together in clumps. Under suitable conditions the phenomenon can be rendered visible to the naked eye. To a test- tube full of the slightly turbid bacterial suspension the antiserum is added, and owing to the agglutination which takes place the bacteria settle down to the bottom of the tube, leaving the supernatant fluid clear. If agglutination does not occur the suspension remains turbid. Aggkitination can also be observed under the microscope in hanging- drop preparations, or by staining smears. The phenomenon of agglutination depends on the presence in the antiserum of bodies termed agglutinins. Agglutinins are specific within certain limits, but they also show what is called "group action," i.e. an agglutinin not only clumps its specific Ijacillas, but also, though to a less degree, allied species. Thus, a typhoid serum may agglutinate typhoid bacilli in a dilution of 1/1000, paratyphoid bacilli in a dilution of 1/100, b. coli in a dilution of 1/30, and the cholera bacillus in a dilution of 1/10, while normal serum clumps all alike in a dilution of 1/10 (Citron). Agglutinins are probably distinct from immune bodies, because serums which are strongly bactericidal may be feebly agglutinative, and vice versd. They present, however, certain analogies to immune bodies— they are thermostable, and they become used up in the process of agglutination. They probably contain an agglutinating and a com- bining (haptophore) group (Receptor of third order, vide infra). The nature of agglutination is little understood. Apparently the bodies of bacteria contain agglutinable substances which give rise to, and are in their turn acted on, by agglutinins. Such aggluti^iogens are not all of one kind; some appear to reside in the flagellEe, others in the bodies of organisms (Theobald Smith). The agglutinins called forth by the flagellae appear to act in much higher dilutions than the others, a fact which mayexplain the greater sensitiveness to agglut- ination of motile bacilli than of non-motile bacilli. Besides bacterial agglutinins, hcemagglutinins, having an analogous action on blood corpuscles, exist. (3) Opsonic Action.—The most important recent advance in connection with the relations of what we may call cellular and humoral immunity is due to the researches of Sir E. A. Wright and his collaborators on opsonins. They estimated the phagocytic power of the leucocytes by counting the organisms ingested by these cells when equal parts of a standard bacterial emulsion and blood were incubated together at 37* for 15 minutes. They further devised methods whereby the respective parts played by corpuscles and serum in the role of phagocytosis could be determined, and proved that " blood-fluids modify bacteria in a manner which rendei's them a ready prey to phago- cytes." To this influence they gave the name opsonic action, and to the constituents of the serum which so act, opsonins (o-^mvsu, prepare victuals for). The method adopted {vide infra) is to centrifuge blood, pipette off the serum, and wash the corpuscles. Serums and cor- puscles can then be tested separately against a standardised bactei'ial suspension. Working with an emulsion of staphylococcus pyogenes aureus and his own corpuscles and serum, Wright found that the number of organisms ingested fell when the serum had been kept for four or five days, or heated to 60° to 65° C. for 10 minutes. When the serum was first allowed to act on the bacteria and then heated, and the mixture thereafter exposed to the action of the corpuscles, phagocytic action was unimpaired. It follows that serum contains some substance which so affects bacteria as to render them a ready prey to phagocytes. This opsonic power of the blood is exerted towards staphylo- and streptococci, B. pestis, M. Melitensis, diplococcus pneumoniae, B. coli, Shiga's bacillus, D. intracellularis meningitidis, B anthracis, B. typhosus, B. tuberculosis, and the cholera vibrio. It is not exerted towards Lliffler's bacillus or B. xerosis. The opsonic action of serum is greatly in- creased by the process of immunising against an organism. The nature of opsonins is un- 13