HISTOPLASMOSIS 187 Journ. Exper.Med., Lancaster, Pa.xi. pp. 515-531, 1909 : Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1910, p. 1074. Hola.din.—A proprietary preparation described as an extract of the entire pancreas, pi-esenting all the constituents both of the digestive and the internal secretion; it is recommended in intestinal indigestion, in diabetes, etc. Holzknecht Units.—-See Eontgen Rays and Radium {Dosage). Homax.—HofF's malt extract. For analysis see Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1909, p. 1478. HomogrentisiC Acid.—Hydroquinon acetic acid, one of the substances causing the colour of the urine in alkaptonuria ; it is so called because it can be prepared synthetically from gentisic aldehyde. Honeycomb Lung'.—A rare morbid state of the lung, following broncho-pneumonia in children, due to dilatation of the bronchioles, resulting from weakening of the walls, and consisting in the presence in the lung of numerous pus-containing cavities. See C. R. Box, Lancet, i. for 1907, pp. 16-19. Hordein.—Agliadin or prolamin of the simple protein group, obtained from barley. See Gliadins. Hormona,din.—A proprietary prepara- tion described as the internal secretion of the pancreas for therapeutic use in certain disorders of metabolism attributed to faulty pancreatic functioning. Hormone-Secretin.—See Digestion (Pancreatic). Hormones (og/^aw, to arouse, or excite). —This term has recently been used to describe certain internal secretions of the body, particu- larly in reference to a particular type of mechanism correlating the activities of various organs. The modern view of Hormones is well explained by Starling. " In the normal life of the higher animals, which must be considered as a continuous series of reactions to changes in the environment, ending only with the death of the animal, those reactions which are carried out through the intermedia- tion of the nervous system, play such a pre- ponderant part that we have almost forgotten the possibility of other means of coadaptation among the different organs of the body. Yet in the lowest organisms, before the appearance of any central nervous system, it is by chemical means that any co-ordination of function is determined, either among the different organ- isms of a colony, or among the various cells making up a multicellular organism such as the sponge. In this case the mechanism which determines the movement of phagocytic cells towards an irritant, the chase of food, the escape from noxious environment, or the approach of sexual cells has been given the name of chemiotaxis. Since the application of these chemical stimuli depends on their diffusion through the medium bathing thc- cells, the process is necessarily a very slow one." The need for quick reactions led to the development of a nerA'ous system about which the whole history of the evolution of the higher types centres. But the development of the special nervous system adapted for quick response to changes in the environment " has not abrogated the more lowly and primitive method. . . . Where the necessity does not exist for a specially rapid reaction, as, for instance, in the adaptation of the activities of the digestive glands to the presence of food in the alimentary tract, one might expect to find, as we have found, that the connection between the part of the body receiving the stimulus, and the part of the body which has to react to the stimulus, should be by chemical means." Of these chemical messengers or hormones as they may be termed, we know those which determine the activity of the gastric glands, the pancreas, the liver, and the intestinal glands. The suprarenal bodies manufacture adrenalin which, travelling over the whole body, seems to be a necessary condition for the excitation of any sympathetic nerves. The thyroid in the same way manufactures some substance necessary for the proper growth of the tissues; the foetus appears to secrete into the blood of the mother some substance which excites the growth of the mammary glands. "It is probable that with increasing knowledge the list of these messenger substances will be largely extended, and that, with their isolation, we shall have at our command means of in- fluencing the growth and activity of the majority of the organs of the body. It is worthy of note that these substances do not belong to the group of physiologically active agents of complex and indefinite chemical composition, such as the ferments and toxins, but are in all probability well-defined chemical substances, highly unstable in most cases, but capable of analysis, and, in some cases at any rate, of artificial synthesis. They are com- parable in many respects to the . . . drugs of our pharmacopoeia. The practice of drugging would seem therefore to be, not an unnatural device of man, but the normal method by which a number of the ordinary physiological processes of the organism are carried out."— Recent Advances in the Physiology of Digestion,