84 CAISSON DISEASE Mummery. Ibid , June 27, 1908.—Grant. Ibid.— Olivbe. Ibid., Jan. 30, 1909.—Boycott. Quarterly Journ. Med., April 1908. Ca.lcimeter. See Blood {Estimation of Cdlciiivi S(iJfs). Calcium Index. See Blood {Estima- tion of Calcium Salts). Calmette's Oculo - Reaction. See Immunity {Specific Tuhercidvu Tests). Caimine. — A proprietary preparation having a soporific eft'ect, and recommended (under medical adAdce) in epilepsy, hysteiia, and mania. It contains diethylbarbitui'ic acid combined with sodium, and is therefore nearly related to veronal. See Report in Lancet, ii. for 1910, p. U95. Calsa.—A proprietary preparation of agar- agar recommended for its softening eft'ect on the bowel-contents in the rational treatment of con- stipation. It contains no laxative drug, but may be combined therewith if thought desir- able. See Rei^ort in Lancet, ii. for 1910, p. 467. Cammidg^e's Reaction. SeeGMj. Bladder and Bile Ducts, Diseases of ; Pancreas, Diseases of the {Urine, Pancreatic Iteaction). Cam ptodactyly.—Camptodactylia or camptodactyly, from the Gieek Ka/iTrrw, I bend, and SciktuAos, a finger, is the term given by Landouzy to a deformity of the fingers which he regarded as a stigma of neuro- arthritism, and the result of some functional distui'bance in the cervical and dorsal I'egion of the spinal cord. It is chai'acterised by permanent and irreducible inflexibility of one or more fingers. There is no inflammation, and the stifthess develops gradually and painlessly. The joints affected are solely the interphalangeal ones, the bones show no nodosities, and the palmar fascia is not contracted. Other writers have regarded camjatodactyly as a stigma of tuberculosis, and Lesieur (quoted in the Lancet) has described the morbid state in detail. It may affect one or both hands, but the right hand seems to be more prone to be attacked. The little finger is that which is most often involved, but the ring and middle fingers are also susceptible. There is fixity at one or both interphalangeal joints, and the resulting de- formity is a hooking or bending of the finger which permits flexion but not extension of the digit, and does not interfere much with the use of the hand. The family history of patients suffering from camptodactyly has often been found to contain indications of tubei'culosis, and the patients themselves have yery fre- quently shown tubercular signs (pulmonary or glandulai-); further, the tubercular manifesta- tions have been noted to be tending towards cure, or even cured. Lesieur and others, therefore, have regarded camptodactyly as a means both of diagnosing tuberculosis and of forming a favourable prognosis. In Secheyron's case the defoi'mity was associated with a morbid state of the skin (cheloide verruqueuse). LITERATURE.—Landouzy, L. Pressemed., xiv. p. 251, 1906.—HoEAND, R. Gaz. d. hop., Ixxxi. p. 231, 1908.—Editorial in Lancet, i. for 1908, p. 579.— MiLiAN, G. Oaz. d. hop., Ixxxi. p. 280, 1908.— Dubreuil-Chambardel. Bull, et mem. Sac. d'anthrop. de Paris, 5 s. ix., p. 167, 1908.—Chretien, H. Poitou iiM., xxiv. p. 52, 1909.—Secheyron. Ardi. mid. de Toulouse, xvi. p. 228, 1909. Cancer.—The term cancer is used by many to designate malignant tumours arising in epithelium. It is a convenient term, which can be applied to malignant growths irrespective of the nature of their histological structure, and thus in this article it is proposed to apply the designation in the latter sense. There is at present no disease that has been the suliject of more widespread and thorough investigation than cancer. This investigation has been conducted mainly in institutions speci- ally endowed for this purpose, and many able pathologists have been engaged upon it. As the result, ther'e has been accumulated in recent yeai's a large amount of material concerning the nature of cancer and its mode of growth. Most of the facts have been obtained l)y experimental investigation, and many of them may ultimately prove to be of great value to the clinician. It should, however, be clearly understood that from our knowledge of cancer there is at present no treatment which is to be recom- mended in preference to removal of the growth by surgical operation, where that is possible. It should also be distinctly understood that, although certain therapeutic remedies have been found to influence the progress of new growths, there are none which may be used justifialjly when surgical operation is possible. The treatment of cancer, according to our present knowledge of the disease, consists in the prompt removal of the growth in its entirety. As has ali'eady been said, the facts brought out concerning cancer in recent years have been olrtained mainly as the result of experi- mental investigation. Until comparatively recently the experimental investigation of cancer was rendered difficult, as it was found almost impossible to propagate the disease by the inoculation of it into animals of the same or dift'erent species. Some eight years ago Jensen of Copenhagen gave a great impetus to cancer research by his discovery of a tumour which occurred in mice, and which could be propagated readily by inoculation into other mice. It is this tumour — Jensen's adeno- cai'cinoma—that has formed the basis of most