LUNGS AND THORAX, SURGERY OF THE 250 beginning apical tuberculosis ; (3) resection of several costal cartilages in emphysema with fixed thorax; (4) the production of artificial pneumothorax in selected cases with extensive cavity formation or in patients suffering from uncontrollable haemorrhage; and (5) total mobilisation of the chest wall by removal of the ribs from the second to the tenth inclusive. Rib-Resection over large Cavities.—When a large cavity has formed, the natural process of cure depends on fibrous tissue formation in and round its walls, and shrinkage. If septic infec- tion of the cavity has occurred this process is checked, and, on the other hand, where there is much development of fibrous tissue shrinkage may be prevented by the existence of firm pleural adhesions and the unyielding chest wall. In some cases, therefore, it may be advisable to resect several ribs without opening the pleura, and to apply a large pad to favour shrinkage. Freeman (Annals of Stirgery, July 1909) also advocates a limited resection, under local anaes- thesia if desirable, of two or three ribs near the apex, as perfectly safe, and of much service, especially when supplemented by the external pressure of a truss, the pads of which rest on the front and back of the chest, and are con- nected by a spring passing over the shoulder. The procedure should be reserved for refractory cases with marked, limited, apical lesions, especially those with a tendency to excavation. Two to three inches of each ril5 (second, third, and perhaps fourth) are removed below the clavicle. Recovery is protracted. He has per- formed the operation twice, with encouraging results. Ghondrotomy of First Rib m beginning A2ncnl Tuberculosis.—The rationale of this operation is based on the belief that in certain cases the apex of the lung is damaged, and infection with tuberculosis predisposed to, by ossification of the first lib and contraction of the bony wall of the thorax. Hart reports (from post- mortem findings) that arrest of apical foci is more common when a pseudo-arthrosis is established in the cartilage of the first rib. Seidel describes a method of producing an artificial joint. A skin flap is raised from the clavicle to the second rib, its base being lateral, and its apex towards the sternum. The cartilage is exposed and freed from muscle fibres, and the peiichondrium freed. A narrow segment of cartilage, about i inch thick, is excised, the line of its long axis running from the axilla towards the throat. A false joint is assured by placing a few fibres of the pectoral muscle in the channel made by the removed segment. The operation can be of little use when the tuberculosis process extends materially beyond the apex of the lung. Resection of Ribs for JEinjjhi/sema.—Patients suffering from emphysema with fixation of the thorax may be benefited by the resection of several ribs. The operation consists in the excision of 1| to 2| ins. of rib, with the periosteum, at the junction of bone and costal cartilage from the second to the sixth ribs inclusive. In emphysema, with the loss of the normal flexibility of the ribs and cartilages, the chest is permanently fixed in a position of more or less full inspiration, and the breath- ing is largely abdominal. Upon removal of the rigid cartilages and ribs the normal range of movement returns. The operation is said to give good results, and to be comparatively free from danger. Goodmann and Wachsmann (Medical Record, 16th May 1908) report favourably on four cases operated on, and conclude as follows :—"Freund's operation is of great benefit in emphysema with a rigid dilated thorax. A most convincing feature is observed during operation ; when the costal cartilage is resected the rib recedes immediately, at times below the level of the sternum. The ribs move so freely that the finger tip is distinctly squeezed when inserted between the sternum and rib. The lung visibly contracts; relief may be afforded by operating on one side. The operation is not dangerous and is not followed by shock. Cardiac insufficiency, asthma, chronic bronchitis, and albuminuria are not necessarily contra-indications. The best results are likely to follow when operation is under- taken before complications have arisen. A removal of, or plastic operation on, the perichondrium of the resected cartilages seems imperative to obtain lasting improvement." Passler and Seidel (Centralbl. f. Chir., 1907, 2nd Nov.) also report successful cases. Artificial Pneumothorax is only justifiable in exceptional cases. It has been employed with most success in cases of uncontrollable haemor- rhage, but it is futile to resort to it when there are extensive pleuritic adhesions. The originator of the idea of employing artificial pneumothorax in the cure of pulmonary tuber- culosis was Fortanini (DeiUs. med. Woch., 1906, XXXV., and other papers). On account of its slow absorption he employed nitrogen, injecting a little each day, so as gradually to increase the size of the pneumothorax. Murphy next took up the question (Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc., 1898), using larger quantities of nitrogen (1-3^ litres) and repeating every month or so, as Rontgen ray examinations showed it was being absorbed. Murphy regarded extensive bilateral pulmonary mischief, adhesions, and cardiac weakness as contra-indications ; as the chief dangers—infection, subcutaneous emphy- sema, air embolus and dyspnoea from two large injections. Schell applied pneumothorax in the treatment of intractable haemophysis with considerable success. Brauer independently (Bent. vied. Woch., 1906, xvii.) introduced the method into Germany, following in the main, Murphy's technique. Fortanini prefers gradual