130 ECLAMPSIA discovered, our watchword must, of necessity, be " prevention." Eclampsism.—The term "eclampism " (or " eclampsia sans acces ") has been proposed by Paul Bar (^Rev. mens, de gynec. d'obstet. et de pediat., lii. p. 41, 1908) for the group of signs a,nd symptoms which indicate that an attack of eclampsia is imminent. These are—(1) a per- sistent decrease in the amount of urine passed; (2) a diminution in the percentage of chlorides contained in the urine ; (3) the development of slight or of more marked oedema; (4) albu- minuria, especially if the albumen be associated with albumoses, with peptones, and with aceto- soluble albumen ; and (5) urobilinuria and slight jaundice. The signs and symptoms which have been named may exist for some time without convulsive seizures actually occurring; but if, in addition, there be arterial high tension, amblyopia, severe headache, epigastric pain, dyspnoea, ringing in the ears, and sudden paralysis of groups of muscles, the supervention of eclamptic seizures is imminent. Now, in a few cases eclampsism is present without eclampsia following it; or, rather, it is some- times followed by a condition known as "eclampsia without convulsions," and this may prove fatal, with post-mortem lesions similar to those found in fatal cases of ordinary eclampsia. For example, a patient with eclampsism may pass into a state of coma with- out the occurrence of convulsions, or she may have very grave dyspnoea, or severe trigeminal neuralgia, or a hallucination. Bar regarded these symptoms as equivalent to the more commonly observed convulsive seizures. It might be suggested that this morbid state, called by the Germans " Eclampsie ohne Krampfe" or " status eclampticus," is really uraemia, were it not that the post-mortem examination reveals the lesions peculiar to eclampsia (Schmorl, Miinch. med. Wochensch., Iv. p. 363, 1908 ; Schlutius, Zentralb. f. Gyndk., xxxi. p. 107, 1907). The treatment of eclamp- sism is that which has already been called the preventive treatment of eclampsia, and Bar was of opinion that if it were not very soon followed by the disappearance of the signs of toxa;mia, the induction of labour was indicated, and that this was specially to be recommended in the irregular cases of eclampsia sine co7ivulsioiiibus. In addition to the articles already named, the references of the following are added :—Binder, Zentralb. f. Gyndk., xxx. p. 1017, 1906; Esch, ibid., xxx. p. 29.5, 1906 ; Gaillard, Tri- bune med., N. S., xxxix. p. 629, 1907 ; Reinecke, Miinch. med. Wochensch., liv. p. 1522, 1907; Slemons, Johns Hopkins Hosp. Bull., xviii. p. 448, 1907; Brunet, Miinch. med. Wochensch., Iv. p. 702, 1908, and Gynoik. Rund- schau, ii. p. 177, 1908; Chirie and Stern, Bull. soc. d'obstet. de Paris, xi. p. 19, 1908, and Tribune med., N.S., xl. p. 261, 1908 ; and Daunay, Bull. soc. d'olistet. de Paris, xi. p. 317, 1908. EctclSia.. — A localised dilatation of a channel in the body which contains fluid, e.y. lymph varices, phlebectases, sacculated aneur- isms, etc. Ectopic Preg^nancy. Tubal Pregnancy . 130 Pathology ..... . 130 Tubal Abortion . 133 Etiology ..... . 134 Varieties ..... . 135 Complicatio7is .... . 136 Primary Abdominal Pregnancy . . 136 Secondary Abdominal Pregnancy . 138 Ovarian Pregnancy . . 139 Diagnosis . 141 Treatment . 142 Tubal Pregnancy. At the beginning of the twentieth century the investigation of the causes and method of implantation of the fertilised ovum in the Fallopian tube had reached a stage beyond which it could scarcely pass until there was an increase in our knowledge of the details of the embedding of the ovum on the endometrium ; in other words, the elucidation of the pathology of tubal pregnancy had to wait upon the dis- covery of the exact mode of commencement of normal uterine pregnancy. As it so happened, the publication of Leopold's (1897), Peters's (1899), von Spec's (1905), Teacher-Bryce's (1908), and Jung's (1908) Ova was most opportune, and did much to settle the latter question and make possible the better under- standing of the former. The settlement of the problem is not of purely academic interest; the carrying out the details of operative interfer- ence depends, in a large measure, upon it; it may mean the saving or losing of a life, maternal especially, but also foetal. The Jirst question in this problem is con- cerned with decidual reaction. In an ordinary intra-uterine pregnancy decidual changes are found in a very marked degree in the endom- etrium, sometimes in the cervix, and very rarely (almost never) in the tube, the ovary, and the peritoneum. These decidual changes consist in enlargement of the stroma cells of the endometrium until they become epithelioid in appearance (the cells enlarge more than the nuclei and come to contain glycogen), in the widening of the lumen of the glands, in the proliferation of their lining epithelium, and in the taking on of a more cubical character by the epithelial cells. All the evidence goes to show that true decidual cells are not formed in the uterus save in connection with pregnancy,