UTERUS, MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF 387 of the villi. Further, a year later, L. Fraenkel (Arch. f. Gynoik., xlix. pp. 481-507, 1895) described a case, and expressed the opinion that the tumour arose from the syncytium of the chorionic villi and not from decidua ("syncytioma malignum" or "carcinoma syn- cytiale"). But by far the most important contribution to the subject (since Sanger's paper of 1889) was contained in Marchand's articles of 1895, 1898, and 1901 {Monatssch. f. Gehurtsh. u. Gynak., i. p. 513, 1895 ; Zeitsch. f. Gehurtsh. u. Gyndk., xxxii. p. 405, 1895; Berl. klin. Wochensch., xxxv. p. 249, 1898 ; Zeitsch. f. Gehurtsh. u. Gyndk., xxxix. p. 173, 1898; Miinch. med. Wochensch., xlviii. p. 1303, 1901 ; Journ. Ohstet. and Gyncec. Brit. Emp., iv. p. 74, 1903). This writer maintained that the tumour was neither a carcinoma nor a sarcoma, but a special and peculiar growth resembling both ; that it was composed of cells from both layers of the epithelium covering the chorionic villi; and that it was, therefore (according to the conception then formed of the origin of the chorionic epithelium), of both maternal and foetal origin. It had been noted that a hydatid mole often preceded the appear- ance of deciduoma malignum, and Marchand applied himself to the histological consideration of the former and came to the conclusion that its essential character was not found in myxo- matous degeneration of the stroma of the villi, but in excessive growth of the epithelium covering these chorionic projections. He noted next that the cells of the hydatidiform mole and those of the deciduoma malignum were strikingly alike, and that they infiltrated the maternal tissues and invaded the blood-vessels in the same way ; and he found that in certain hydatidiform moles (termed malignant) the histological appearances were exactly the same as those in deciduoma malignum (the tumour which, from 1898 onwards, he named Cliorion- epitheliom.a}j. It was easy to trace the con- nection between the epithelium of the hydatid mole and that which covered the villi in the normal placenta; and by-and-by connecting links were found joining together the three formations (chorionepithelioma, hydatid moles, simple and malignant, and normal placenta); and the connecting links were chorionepithelio- mata containing villi (Apfelstedt and AschofF, Arch.f. Gyndk., 1. pp. 511-547, 1896 ; Neumann, Monatssch. f. Gehurtsh. u. Gyndk., iii. p. 387, 1896 ; Wien. klin. Wochensch., ix. p. 604, 1896 ; Monatssch. f. Gehurtsh. u. Giindk., vi. p. 17, 1897). These conclusions and identifications were materially aided by the researches of Peters and others on early human ova; and so it came to be established that both the layers of epithelium covering the villi were of foetal, or, better, ovular, origin, and that, therefore, the deciduoma malignum was not a maternal but a foetal tumour. This change of view is most clearly shown in the terminology of the subject, in the substitution of chorionepithe- lioma for deciduoma malignum. But some years elapsed before these new ideas could make their way in England against the opinion which the Obstetrical Society of London had formulated in 1896, although, in Scotland, Teacher and Kelly {Journ. Path. Bacterial., v. p. 358, 1898) and Haul tain {Journ. Brit. Gyncec. Soc, XV. p. 190, 1899) had described cases showing that the tissue of the tumour was the same as the epithelium of the chorionic villi, and that the tumour actually had its origin in the villi. British opinion may be said to have been finally brought into line with the Con- tinental and American view (as expressed by Marchand) only in 1903, when Teacher pub- lished his masterly monograph on the subject {Jour?!,. Ohstet. and Gywec. Brit. Kmp., iv. pp. 1-64, 145-199, 1903). It is true that for a time Yeit and his followers maintained that the tumour was a sarcoma of the uterus associated with a pregnancy, and that the latter fact accounted for the presence of foetal ele- ments, which were, therefore, not to be regarded as essential parts of the neoplasm; but Marchand's view has steadily gained ground whilst Veit's contention that disease of the mother cannot ai'ise from the foetus has not been strengthened. But it was not long till the occurrence of tum- ours closely resembling the chorionepithelioma outside the uterus, apart from pregnancy, and even in the male subject opened up a new field of inquiry. In the first place, typical chorion- epitheliomata have been found as primary growths of the vagina. Hicks {Journ. Ohstet. and Gyncec. Brit. Emj)., xii. pp. 119-129, 1907) reported such a case in 1907, and was able to gather together fourteen certain instances from literature, the earliest of which (Pick's and Schmorl's) were published in 1897. To explain these extra-uterine tumours it has been sup- posed that emboli containing the tissue of the chorionic villi migrate from the uterus and settle in more or less distant organs and tissues, and develop there into chorionepitheliomata. In the reported cases there was generally the history of a vesicular, mole, or, less often, of a simple abortion or of a full-term pregnancy ; the growth apparently spread by the peri- vaginal veins, and there was some evidence that the infecting cells might lie latent for months. Again, in 1897. Kanthack and Eden {Trans. Ohstet. Soc. Lond., xxxviii. pp. 149. 171, 1897) reported cases of tumours (in the liver) histologically indistinguishable from chorion- epitheliomata found apart altogether from preg- nancy, and Lubarsch's specimen {Arh. a. d. Posenen Instit., p. 230) of a growth ai'ising from the uterus came from a girl of 13 years who had never menstruated. But, further, tumours apparently identical with the chorion-