LABOUR, MANAGEMENT OF 231 of the patient as almost its only contra- indication. It may be said, in passing, that Baldy {Trans. Amer. Gynec. Soc, xxxiii. p. 6, 1908) paints rather a gloomy picture of the giving of ansesthetics in America (apparently referring to ether), and suggests that, in order to get over the difficulty of attracting skilled anaesthetists, women should be employed at smaller salaries. Ethyl chloride has been used as an anaesthetic during labour when deep anaesthesia by ether or chloroform was not called for. Lepage and Le Lorier (Ann. de la Policlin. de Paris, xiii. p. 160, 1903) have recommended it on account of the ease of administration, the rapidity with which an- aesthesia is produced, the rapid recovery, and the freedom from unpleasant after-effects ; it is said to be specially useful for short manipu- lations, such as forceps, internal version, removal of placenta or membranes, and suturing the perineum. Anesthesia may be begun with ethyl chloride and continued with chloroform, if necessary (Miiller, Deutsche med. Presse, ix. p. 76, etc., 1905). But, again, ethyl chloride is not without inconveniences and dangers {e.g. spasm of the masseter muscles), and its administration has been the cause of death {vide Luke's article, Internat. Clinics, S. 15, vol. iii. p. 214, 1905). Within the past few years, however, a still more formidable competitor has sprung up among the anaesthetics which may be used in midwiferj'^ practice. This is scopolamine (or hyoscine) given hypodermically in combination with morphine in order to produce semi-narcosis or drowsiness (Dammerschlaf of the Germans) during labour. It was introduced by Stein- biichel into obstetrics. As practised by Gauss (Arch./. Gynaek., Ixxviii. p. 579, 1906 ; Miinch.. med. Wochenscli., liv. p. 157, 1907 ; Zentralh. f. Gyndk., xxxi. p. 33, 1907) the method consists in the injection of about of hyoscine hydrobromate and \ gr. of muriate of morphine ; the ana3sthetic effect is fully evident in an hour, or in three hours at the latest; thereafter a second injection (with a smaller dose of mor- phine) may be given, and, if the labour be prolonged, still more medication with half doses may (according to Gauss) be carried out. The first dose is given when the pains begin to be distressing, and it is claimed that the method is safe for mother and foetus, that it does not affect the strength of the uterine contractions, and that it sufficiently relieves the pain of labour and prevents unpleasant memories of suffering. These are the opinions, founded upon 1000 cases, advanced by Gauss, and they are sup- ported by Preller from a smaller experience {Miinch. med. Wochensch., liv. p. 161, 1907), by Newell {Surg., Gynec, and Ohstet., v. p. 153, 1907), and by Lehmann {Zeitsch. f. Gehurtsh. u. Gyndk., Iviii. p. 297, 1906), although the last- named author mentions the deleterious effect of the drug upon the foetus. On the other hand, there is evidence that the scopolamine-morphine method is not without its disadvantages and risks. Stefien {Arch. f. Gynaek., Ixxxi. p. 451, 1907), Hocheisen [Zeitsch. f. Gehurtsh. u. Gyndk., lix. p. 131, 1907 ; Miinch. med. Wochensch., liv. p. 529, 1907), and Bertino (Ginecologia, 31st Oct. 1907) have all written strongly on this aspect of the subject. Steffen, for instance, found that the uterine contractions were weaker in 38'3 per cent, and stopped altogether in 5 per cent. ; Hocheisen noted weakening in 33 per cent, and arrest in 3 per cent. ; the former observer stated further that the pain accompanying the contraction was unchanged in 18'6 per cent., and both he and Hocheisen found some inconvenience from the fact that the patients wei'e unable voluntarily to control the contraction of the abdominal muscles at critical periods (e.g. when the head was crossing the perineum). Bertino, as well as Steffen and Hocheisen, noted that several of the infants at birth showed symptoms due to the hyoscine and morphine ; Bass, also, reported unfavourably in respect to the state of the foetus {Miinch. med. Wochensch., liv. p. 519, 1907). Gauss himself allowed that 18-1 per cent, of the children were affected with what he termed oligopnoea, and Holzback {Miinch. med. Wochensch., liv. p. 1228, 1907) has proved that this condition, when it persisted after birth, might in part be due to hyoscine passing from the mother's system by the milk to the child. Then, again, it has been stated that the hyoscine causes excitement and even delirium, that atonic uterine hajmorrhage may follow, and that the circulation maybe dangerously affected, although it must be added, in respect to the last-named inconvenience, that Gauss used the method with good results in twenty-three cases with marked heart disease. It may be stated here that the drugs require to be pure and invariable, that the solutions must be made with distilled water and sterilised, and that they should be kept in the dark. That the scopolamine-morphine method has not completely answered expecta- tions is shown by the fact that Professor Kronig (whose assistant is Dr. Gauss) recommends the inhalation of ethyl chloride as the child's head is passing over the perineum, and the adminis- tration of a small dose of veronal to quiet the nervous system at the opening stage of labour {Brit. Med. Jourri., ii. for 1908, p. 807). Some of those who have used the scopolamine- morphine method emphasise the need for close watching of the patient while she is under the influence of the drugs, and would therefore restrict its use to hospitals; others, such as R. C. Buist {Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1908, pp. 809, 1044), find attractions, for private prac- tice, "in method which relieves the patient's sufferings while it allows labour to progress regularly, and which does not require the con-