163 GASTROSTAXIS likely to occur; the morbid state is said to have a symptomatology closely resembling that of gastric ulcer ; but the existence of gastrostaxis as an independent disease has been doubted by some authorities {e.y. C. Bolton, Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1910, p. 1221). See also W. Hale White, Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1910, p. 1347, for evidence as to its occasional occurrence; H. J. Paterson {Lancet, i. for 1910, p. 712) for the theory that it may be due to latent appen- dicular disease ; and E. C. Hort {Lancet, ii. for 1907, pp. 1744-1747) for an analytical state- ment of different forms of gastric haemorrhage. Gastrosuccorrhoea. — An excessive production of gastric juice. GastrotOXin.—Gastrotoxic serum pre- pared l)y injecting an emulsion made from the gastric mucous membrane of one animal {e.g. a guinea pig) into the peritoneal cavity of another animal {e.g. a i-abbit) and taking the latter's blood serum. Bolton found that such a serum produced gastric ulcers {Lancet, i. for 1908, pp. 639, 1330-1333). GeligTlite.—A variety of gelatine dyna- mite, which when needed for blasting purposes has to be thawed, and the thawing should be done in hot water away from a naked flame if explosions are not to occur. For accidents arising in this way see Lancet, i. for 1910, p. 757. Gemmation.—'S'ee Protozoa. Genoform.—See Indoform. Geotropism.—Geotropism, or more •correctly positive geotropism, is a tendency to grow towards the centre of the earth as exhibited in the vegetable world by roots, etc. Geril Bread.— A proprietary food pre- paration, being a dark brown bread of close texture necessitating thorough mastication, and recommended in constipation, diabetes, and some other maladies. An analysis {Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1910, p. 146) shows 7-55 per ■cent, of protein, and 9'7 per cent, of reducing sugar, etc. See also Lancet, i. for 1910, p. 308. Giemsa Stain.— A bloodstain in which Griibler's azure ij., which is a combination of equal parts of methylene azure and medicinal methylene blue, is made up with eosin B.A. in methyl alcohol, and has thereafter glycerine (CP.) added to it. See Webster, Diagnostic Methods, p. 456, 1909. There is also a Giemsa Azur-eosin solution which is used for staining the spirochgeta pallida {ibid., p. 588). GieSSFlubier Water.—A mildly alka- line water, recommended in gastric catarrh and other allied conditions. See Report in Lancet, i. for 1908, p. 650. Gig^ii's IVIetiiod.—See Symphy.siotomy AND PUBIOTOMY. Ging'amint.—A proprietary preparation having an antacid and stomachic effect in dyspepsia; it is made in tabloid form and contains sodium bicarbonate, ammonium bi- carbonate, gingerin, saccharin, and oil of pepper- mint. See Lancet, ii. for 1907, p. 905. Glassworkers' Cataract.—There is some evidence that cataract is commoner in glassworkers than in the population generally, a frequency which has been ascribed to the glare of the molten glass {Brit. Med. .Joxirn., i. for 1909, p. 28). Glaxo.—A proprietary food preparation containing, according to the Lancet Laboratory analysis, exactly the same food elements as cow's milk, leaving out of account the water, but the constituents have been modified to increase their digestibility. For report and analysis see Lancet, i. for 1908, p. 947. Giiadins.—Proteins insoluble in water, in absolute alcohol, and in other neutral solvents, but soluble in relatively strong (70 to 80 per cent.) alcohol: also known as pro- tamins and alcohol-solulile j^roteins ; instances are found in gliadin itself (from wheat), in zein, and in hordein. Glidine.—A proprietary food, described as a pure vegetable protein food prepared wholly from wheat, containing lecithin and practically free from carbohydrates ; it is further stated that it may be considered as a lecithin-albumen, and that the lecithin is present in organic combination with albumen as it exists in nature ; it is tasteless and odourless and may therefore be added to ordinary articles of diet. An analysis {Lancet, i. for 1909, p. 247) showed that it contained over 90 per cent, of protein, associated with the phosphorus of lecithin, and that the mineral matter amounted to 0-30 per cent., and con- sisted apparently entirely of phosphates. It is recommended in tuberculosis and wasting diseases. It forms a loose compound with iodine (iodo-gliditie), and it has been stated that iodine may be thus given without the risk of iodism. GliOSarcoma. — A glioma, occurring most commonly in connection with the retina (when it is malignant and liable to form metastases) ; it is composed of small round cells mostly without processes, with here and there