211 INTESTINES, SURGERY OF THE thread. Some American surgeons specially recommend Cushing's "right-angle" suture; in it (a continuous suture also) the thread is not carried obliquely from one side of the wound to the other, but transversely; progress is made by carrying the suture for a shoit distance in the wall of the bowel parallel to the tear, then crossing over and carrying it again in the sub- stance of the bowel for a similar distance on the other side, and so on. The only case in which it is permissible to transfix all the intestinal coats (including the mucous) is when the tear is a large one, and it is necessary to bring together the middle point temporarily and so close the wound in two parts ; sometimes, also, •one may use the through-and-through suture when it is intended to bury it under a second row of tier sutures, but there is always a certain risk of faecal contents invading the tissue of the bowel wall in such cases by capillary attraction. The Connell suture passes through all the coats^ and by an ingenious procedure the knots, when tied, are within the intestinal lumen. Wounds in the mesentery should always be carefully closed (by an ordinary continuous silk or fine catgut suture), for, if left unmended, a small loop of bowel may be caught in the opening and ■obstruction set up, possibly with a fatal result. In all enterorrhaphy operations the peritoneum at the mesenteric attachment must be carefully adapted, preferably by overstitching. But there are wounds (irregular and exten- sive) and injuries (involving large areas) of the intestine that simple enterorrhaphy will not suffice to make good; for these some form of intestinal anastomosis will be required. Further, anastomosis enters into several other operative procedures which may be rendered necessary by diseased conditions of the bowel itself (tumours, obstruction, etc.). To the descrip- tion of such anastomosis-operations I now pass. Intestinal anastomosis consists essentially in the establishment of a permanent fistulous com- munication between one section of the bowel and another—e.g. between the section of the bowel lying above an obstruction or lai'ge wound and that lying below it; its purpose is to throw the affected segment of the intestine out of action, and it may be accompanied or followed by resection of that portion or not; in the latter case it will be not a radical but a palliative operation. The procedure is not new, for it was carried out by Maisonneuve, but its practical and successful application only dates from Senn's time. The anastomosis may be end-to-end or lateral (side-to-side), and it may be carried out by sutures alone, or by sutures aided by such a mechanical device as the Murphy button. The decalcified bone bobbin, the potato bobbin, and the Laplace and O'Hara forceps are not now much used. Knd-to-end anastomosis by sutures may be first described ; it will 1 )e considered as part of an enterectomy or intestinal resection opera- tion {e.g. for a tumour or for obstruction). The affected part of the bowel is first exposed (by abdominal section), drawn well out of the abdomen, and placed upon and surrounded by sterilised gauze; it should then be emptied of its faecal contents by stripping—i.e. pressing the fingers along it after the upper clamp (Doj'en's, for instance) has been fixed in position; next, the lower clamp should be applied; and both clamps should be quite beyond the diseased part, and they should not interfere with the circulation in the mesentery. For the actual suturing Halsted's interrupted mattress suture has been strongly recommended: on one side of the wound this suture (which is really a double Lembert) is united by a loop, the two free ends on the other side are the ones which are to be tied. The plan has been thus described. Before the bowel is resected the Halsted sutures are put in position, but not tied. Five of these " presection" sutures are usually employed on each side of the part of the bowel which is to be removed, about \ of an inch beyond the line of section. Of the five one is put on each side of the mesentery, one at the apex of the bowel, and one on each lateral aspect. They are placed just beyond the vessels from the mesentery which supply the part of the bowel which is to be removed. The next step is to tie (with fine silk) the vessels in the mesentery which supply that part of the intestine, taking care not to tie those which supply the parts in which the presection sutures are embedded. Then with straight, blunt-pointed scissors, the intestine is cut straight across at the two pre-determined places, just inside the loops of the Halsted sutures, and, at the same time, a triangular piece of mesentery (containing the ligated vessels) is excised. The ends of the bowel are now brought into apposition, and the presection sutures of the one side are tied to those of the other, thus fixing the two ends of the intestine in five places. The next step is to pass a large number of Halsted sutures so as to bury these five presection ones, and make the union quite firm and secure; these pass quite round the intestinal circumference, and must not include any of the vessels from the mesentery at the base of the bowel lest they cut off the blood supply and cause gangrene. Finally, the edges of the wound in the mesentery are brought together by a continuous suture, care again being taken not to include any of the vessels which supply the intestine. Other operators excise the portion of bowel marked oft' before passing any sutures. Under these circumstances the first suture transfixes all the coats just at the mesenteric edge, and then by continuous suturing the two pieces of intestine are approximated and united ; these