EARLY 324 RISING, Rising^, Early. — See Puerperium, Management of. Robert's Method. — A method for determining the amount of sugar in urine; it depends upon the fact that the specific gravity of the urine is changed in a quantitative way when its sugar is fermented. See Webster, Diagnostic Methods, p. 289, 1909. " Roboleine."—A proprietary prepara- tion described as " a scientific reconstructive tonic food, containing a palatable combination of fresh red bone marrow, expressed juice of calves' rib bones, cream of malt with hypophosphites of lime, soda, and potash"; it is recommended as a substitute for cod-liver oil, the dose being from a teaspoonful to a tablespoonful after meals. Robora.t.—A proprietary food prepara- tion stated to consist of unaltered vegetable albumen, containing also nutritive salts and lecithin ; an analysis showed 73 per cent, of protein, 4'7 per cent, of fat, 10 per cent, of water, 2-9 per cent, of ash, and 9'4 per cent, (by difference) of carbohydrate {Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1910, p. 1241). Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever. —Tick fever, a malady due, it is believed, to a parasite in the red blood corpuscles called piro- plasma hominis, whose host is the wood tick. Rocia Natural Tonic Water.—A natural water containing iron in the form of soluble protosulphate (which becomes persulph- ate after a time), and traces of copper and arsenic. See Report in Lancet, ii. for 1909, p. 1443. Rodagren {see also Graves's Disease).— The dried milk of thyroidectomised goats with 50 per cent, of milk sugar added ; it is recom- mended in cases of exophthalmic goitre. See Brit. Med. Jouryi., ii. for 1905, p. 1251 ; i. for 1906, p. 326. Romanowsky Stain.—A stain for the chromatni substance of malarial organisms, obtained by adding a watery eosin solution to an aqueous methylene - blue solution till an insoluble precipitate began to form. Romer's Experiment.—The experi- ment (on the action of abrin on the conjunc- tiva) by which Romer demonstrated the local development of antitoxins. Roncegrno Water.—A water contain- ing arsenic and iron which has been recom- mended in cases of Graves's disease. Rontg^en Rays and Radium.— 1. ReiNTGEN Rays. Many of the advances which have enlarged the sphere of usefulness of the X-rays in medicine and surgery—e.y. the shortened exposure which is now required to obtain satisfactory skiagrams ; the greater ease with which deeply seated strictures, such as the hip-joint or stones in the pelvis of the kidney, can be photographed ; the more accurate localisation of foreign bodies in the eye and elsewhere—are due to improvements in tech- nique and in the apparatus available. For information on these points a standard modern text-book, and the special journals on X-rays, must be referred to. Here only a general description of some of the advances will be given. Dangers of X-rays.—The efi"ect of the rays on normal skin is to produce {a) pigmentation, {b) erythema, and (c) blanching and loosening of the hairs. If exposures are continued an X-ray burn may occur. According to their severity, four degrees of burns are recognisable (Pusey and Caldwell). 1. Dry dermatitis with- out destruction accompanied by burning or tingling. It begins as a punctate redness round the follicles. If the process stops at this stage, there is some desquamation, and except for more or less residual pigmentation, recovery ensues. 2. Dermatitis with vesicles which rupture and leave a weeping surface. Healing is gradual. 3. Intense vesicular and bulbous dermatitis with superficial necrosis. The necrotic skin bleeds readily. Ulcers form, which heal slowly; recovery in from three or four weeks to as many months. The skin is left thin and softer than normal. 4. Intense congestion of the skin with necrosis of the skin and subcutaneous tissue. The sloughs separate very slowly, possibly requiring months to do so. Healing like an ordinary ulcer, except that the scar is more vascular. Workers with X-rays who do not take pre- cautions against unnecessary exposure are liable to develop a chronic dermatitis with atrophy of the deeper layers of the skin. The backs of the hands are chiefly affected ; the skin becomes thin and cracked, telangiectases develop, the nails become loose and brittle and the nail bed may suppurate. In not a few cases malignant disease has ultimately developed in such lesions. The action of the X rays on deeply-seated organs and tissues is referred to in connection with the treatment of Leukemia {q.v.). A further effect of exposure to the rays is sterility. Sexual power is unimpaired, but there is com- plete azoospermia. The changes in the testicle seem to require several months for their de- velopment, and the sterility which results is of considerable duration, or may perhaps be permanent. The dangers of X-rays can be guarded against by avoiding unnecessary exposures, by the use