EMBRYOOARDIA 145 has reported a remarkable case of jugular em- bryocardia, in which " foetal heart sounds" were heard in the jugular area where the sounds were from 208 to 228 per minute, whilst the systemic pulsation was only 108 to 114 ; the patient had a double mitral lesion with tricuspid regurgitation {Lancet, i. for 1909, p. 19). Embryotomy or Embryulcia. Indications 145 Methods 145 Cleidotomy 145 Definition and History . .145 Indications . . . .146 Techtiique . . . . ■ .146 Advantages. . . . . .146 Spinal Tapping 147 History . . . .147 Indications. . . . . .147 Technique .... .147 Advantages. . . . . .148 Indications. — The past three or four years have witnessed not an extension but a restriction of the sphere of application of destructive operations upon the unborn infant. The operation of embryulcia is more and more being restricted to those cases in which the infant is already dead in utero or in which its life is almost negligible (on account of gross malformations or teratological states), and in which there is some serious obstacle to delivery, such as contraction of the pelvis (conjugate of two and a quarter to three and a quarter inches) and neoplasms of the soft or hard canals. The operations of Csesarean section, of pubiotomy, and of the premature induction of labour have narrowed down the indications for embryulcia in a very marked manner. Especially is it the case that extra-peritoneal (supra-symphysary) Csesarean section (q.v.) is coming to take the place of embryulcia, for it is indicated even when there is reason to dread infection of the uterus. At the present moment it is recog- nised that the operation of killing a child in order to deliver it is theoretically wrong, and that embryotomy ought therefore to be per- formed only when there is good evidence that the foetus is already dead or dying; but, in actual practice, a living infant is still occasion- ally craniotomised, when it is felt that the risks of performing Csesarean section are too great. Methods.—It is not wonderful, therefore, that few contributions have been made to the technique of embryulcia. An operation which is discredited, which is passing out of use, does not attract attention ; inventive genius turns away from it in other directions, and it is left to perish without modification. Nevertheless, some suggestions have been made which are of value. The operation of decapitation, for instance, has been rendered easier and more exact by Jardine's modification of Rams- botham's decapitator, by which it is converted into a decapitating hook (Jardine, Clinical Obstetrics, 2nd ed., p. 500, 1905). But there are two operative procedures, greatly facili- tating the extraction of the child in embryulcia, which call for more extended notice ; I refer to cleidotomy after craniotomy or basilysis and to tapping the cerebral ventricles through the spine in hydrocephalus; both these methods have taken their place of late years among the valuable means of terminating difficult labours. Cleidotomy. — Definition and History. — Cleidotomy or division of the clavicles is an operation accessory to craniotomy or basio- tripsy, and it has for its object the diminution of the width of the shoulders of the foetus. It is possible to imagine cases in which it might be performed apart from these other operations, e.g. in broad-shouldered anencephalic foetuses, but in the great majority of instances it is simply a rapid means of ending a difficult craniotomy. No doubt obstetricians in the past, when confronted with such an emergency as impaction of the shoulders after birth of the head (either intact or craniotomised), adopted some plan of procedure for the reduction of the width of the bisacromial diameter; but they do not appear to have specialised the manoeuvre into a definite operation, nor to have restricted the embryulcia to the clavicles. Dr. H. R. Spencer (Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1895, p. 808) introduced the operation of cleidotomy, although he did not give it that or any other specific denomination. He said: "It may be necessary to reduce the width of the child's shoulders. With this object I have found it a useful plan to snip through the clavicles with scissors, then, if necessary, to pass a blunt hook into the axilla, and then to bring down the arms." He went on to saj'^ that he had met with several cases (five or six) where craniotomy was not sufficient to extract, and had practised the snipping through of the clavicles. Soon after the publication of Spencer's article Professor PhanomenofF of Kasan {Zentralb. f. Gyndk., xix. p. 585, 1895) described the same operation, giving to it the definite name of cleidotomia (" Durch- schneidung des Schlusselbeins "); and he was led to perform the operation rather because of large size of the foetus (it weighed 13 lbs.) than of contraction of the pelvic canal. The head of the infant was without much difficulty brought down to the perineum with forceps, but no further progress could be made, and the infant died, so Phanomenoff divided both clavicles near their inner end with a pair of scissors (passed up above the brim), and so delivered 10