139 ECTOPIC PREGNANCY behind, and the abdominal incision was closed. The patient made a good recovery, and the child, at the age of two and a half years, is alive, but is unfortunately a microcephalic idiot. The placenta, it was found, had been inserted upon the isthmus of the tube. Keeping Potocki's case in mind, we are better able to recognise the special dangers and difficulties of operating upon full-time abdom- inal pregnancies. The wall of the sac is so thin and friable that marsupialisation, that con- venient resource in some other forms of ectopic gestation, is rendered impossible of perform- ance ; the living placenta has vascular attach- ments which are so extensive as to produce tremendous hsemorrhage if separated at once ; and it is not always possible to leave the placenta in situ, for, as was seen in Potocki's case, it may begin to come away of itself. It may therefore be thought better to wait till the full term is past and the foetus dead ; but, on the other hand, there is the chance of saving the infant, if the operation be performed at term, and, as Potocki's case shows, the child may not only be born alive but may survive. It is true that the full-time infant of an extra- uterine pregnane}^ has a smaller chance of being well formed than has one from a normal pregnancy ; still, a sufficient number of cases of survival of such infants has now been recorded to prove that their lives are far from negligible (see von Winckel's work Ube?- die MisshUdungen von ektopisch entwickelten Friichten und deren Ursachen (Wiesbaden), 1902), and that they may enjoy good health and be mentally well developed. It will probably be found to be the better plan for the sake of child as well as mother to operate at term. The operation should be carefully pre- pared for, and special attention should be paid to asepsis; no special difficulties are likely to be met with until the operator comes to deal with the placenta and has to decide whether to take it away or to leave it to come away for itself. The risk of almost uncontrollable hemorrhage accompanies the former procedure, while the latter is attended by the risk of sepsis. J. W. Taylor {loc. cit.) has suggested a third plan of treatment. He says that two forms of placenta are met with : one may be called the "ball-like," and is covered nearly everywhere by amniotic reflexion ; the other may be named "discoid," and has only one surface free from vascular attachments; the former can generally be removed with safety, the latter cannot. Although some vascular twigs from omentum or intestine may contribute to the supply of the placenta, its chief vessels are always those of the broad ligament (ovarian and uterine), and the plan of treatment, there- fore, must consist in finding and securing these before the removal of the placenta is attempted. This, Taylor says, is easy with the " ball-like " placenta, but very difficult with the "discoid." He suggests, therefore, that in the latter emergency the child and cord should be removed, the amniotic sac carefully washed out, and the cavity containing the placenta closed in, and that structure left to be absorbed. Of course the success or failure of this plan will depend entirely on the degree of perfection of the aseptic precautions which can be attained. A large number of articles discussing secondary abdominal pregnancy have appeared during the past five or six years ; only a few of the more important or more easily accessible are named here : — Barozzi, Gynecologie, xi. p. 489, 1906 ; Beale, Med. Press and Circ, N. S., Ixxxii. p. 360, 1906 ; Brothers, Amer. Journ. Obstet., Ivii. p, 109, 1908 (a case in which the pregnancy was further complicated by the presence of a fibroid tumour) ; Garkisch, Frag. med. Wochensch., xxxiii. p. 149, 1908; Hellier, Journ. Obstet. and Gynnc. Brit. Emp., V. p. 438, 1904 ; Marsh, ibid., ix. p. 438, 1906 ; Pestalozza, Ginecologia, i. p. 42, 1904 ; Potocki and Bender, Ann. de gyne'c. et d'obstet., 2 s., i. p. 581, 1904; Priismann, Zeitsch.f. Gehurtsh. u. Gyndk., lii. p. 288, 1904 ; Reed, Trans. Amer. Assoc. Obstet. and, Gynec. xviii. p. 239, 1906; Sittner, Deutsche med. Woche7isch.. xxx.u. p. 1200, 1906 (the infant was alive in this case); Weiss, Zentralb. f. Gyndk., xxxii. p. 251, 1908 (both mother and child lived). Articles dealing more particularly with the treatment of these difficult cases are those of Freund (Samml. klin. Vortr., No. 448, 1907), Hellier {Trans. Obstet. Soc. Lond., xlv. p. 366, 1904), Jacomet {Echo med. du Nord., xi. p. 292, 1907), Tate [Journ. Obstet. and Gyncee. Brit. Emp., x. p. 592, 1906), and Vallois [Bull. soc. d'obstet. de Paris, vii. p. 315, 1904). Ovarian Pregnancy. Ovarian Pregnancy. — When the Encyclo- poidia Medica was published (in the last year of the nineteenth century) it was permissible to write of ovarian pregnancy as " a possibility denied by manj^," and to state that '• for all practical purposes the tubal variety was the only primary form " of ectopic gestation ; but there can be now no longer any doubt about its possibility, and alongside of the tul^al form of extra-uterine pregnancy we must at the present day place primarj' ovarian pregnancy, and perhaps also primary abdominal gestation. Historical Note.—Although ovarian preg- nancy had been suspected by previous writers, to Dr. Catharine van Tussenbroek of Amsterdam belongs the credit of giving the first complete demonstration of its actual occurrence. Her communication took the form of a report on a specimen removed by Dr. Kouwer from a patient, thirty-one years of age, who had had six weeks' amenorrhoea, and who was believed