URETERS, SURGERY OF 386 As regards the results of these operations, two general statements may be made—(1) They ^ive a great measure of, in some cases almost complete, relief from the misery which attends ectropia vesicae; (2) they are all attended with more or less risk of ascending infection of the ureter. Patients who have their ureters im- planted into the lower bowel generally acquire the power of retaining urine for several hours, and even nocturnal incontinence may not occur. A point of interest concerning this function of the rectum in acting as a urinary reservoir is that for the most part the urine is passed at intervals of several hours, clear and free from admixture of fajces, while in the morning there is a further evacuation of a normal motion without urine. Apparently one of the most important points in the prevention of ascend- ing infection is to preserve the normal valvular opening at the ureteral papilla, and to avoid any cicatrisation of the outlet, which would lead to stagnation of the contents of the ureter. Buchanan also insists on the need for avoiding kinks or twists in the ureters as they are diverted into theii' new tracts. To avoid the risks of ascending infection Kronig {Ceniralb. J'. Gyncik., 18th May 1907) performed sigmoid- ostomy so as to give an artificial anus. He then implanted the ureters into the rectum. The case was one of ablation of uterus and bladder for pelvic sarcoma. Statistical Results.—Maydl's operation has been performed on 80 patients, with a mortality of 28-7 per cent. Of 23 deaths, the cause is known in 20—peritonitis, 7 ; pyelo-nephritis and anuria, 11. Bergenhein-Peteis' operation, 26 cases, with a mortality of 11 "5 per cent. Of the 98 patients who survived one or other operation, 11 died subsequently of ascending infection. Of 64 cases known to be alive, 15 had survived the operation for from 6 to 12 years. In considering these figures it should be remembered that of 74 patients l)orn with extroversion of the bladder and undergoing no operation only 23 attained the age of 20, the others dying of pyelo-nephritis (Buchanan). LITERATURE.—The following out of many papers may be mentioned :—Beck, Med. Journ., N.Y., 19th May 1906.—Newland, Brit. Med. Jonrn., 28th April 1906; Bond, iWrf. —Bakling, ibid., 19th Jan. 1907.— Buchanan, Surgery, Oynecology, and Obstetrics, Feb. 1909.—Berksnegowski, Zcnt. f. Chir., 1909, p. 634. Uritone. — A synonym of urotropin (hexamethylene-tetramine (CH2)6N4); an agree- able form for administration is the elixir. Urodona.1.—A uric acid solvent, being a mixture of lysidin, sidonal, and urotropin ; it is in a granular effervescent form. Urol.—A uric acid solvent, being "an addition product of quinic acid and two mole- cules of urea." See Fortescue-Brickdale, Newer Remedies, p. 105, 1910. UroleuciC Acid.—An acid (aromatic substance) found in the urine in alkaptonuria, having the formula CgHioOj. Urorhodin.—'S'ee Urorubin. Uroroseinogren.—A chromogen of the urine which is converted into the pigment uro- rosein, as urobilinogen is converted into uro- bilin. Urorubin.—A red pigment of the urine, known also as indigo-red, skatoxyl-red, and urorhodin. Urosin.—The lithium salt of quinic acid, acting as a uric acid solvent. UrostGcllith. — A urinary concretion formed of fatty and soapy matter (Heller). U rystam i n e. — A urinary antiseptic, being urotropin-lithium-benzoate. Uterus, IViaiigrnant Tumours of. Chorionepithelioma .... 386 Ratliology ...... 386 Clinical Features .... 388 Cancer of the Cervix .... 389 Early Recognition .... 389 'J'reatmeiht ...... 390 Since the Encyclopedia and Dictionary of Medicine was published two notable advances have been made in our knowledge of the malignant growths of the uterus, viz. a more correct estimate of the nature of the so-called Deciduoma Malignum (see Vol. VHI. p. 380; X. p. 372), and the introduction of more thorough methods of dealing with Malignant Tumours of the Uterus (Vol. X. p. 372). To each of these advances some paragraphs must be set apart. Chorionepithelioma {Deciduoma Malig- num).—Pathology. — The I'ccognition of the true nature of this tumour was delayed for some years in Great Britain by the decision of the Committee of the Obstetrical Society of London in 1896, the decision being that the growth was only a sarcoma of the uterus. Yet S. Gottschalk (Arch./. Gi/naek., xlvi. pp. 1-100, 1894), in a paper entitled "Das Sarcom der Chorionzotten," published in 1894, had stated his belief that the tumour was not (as Sanger had said) developed from the decidua but took origin primarily in the foetal tissues and was indeed a sarcoma of the chorion arising from the cells of Langhans's layer and the stroma