SUDANOPHILES 348 fattily degenerated forms of leucocytes in which the fat globules stain with osmic acid, and with Sudan, iii. Suiphohsemogrlobinsemia. — See Enterogenous Cyanosis. Sun Ba,th.—Exposure of the unclothed body to the action of the sun's rays as a therapeutic measure. See also Sand Baths, and, for injui'ious effects, Lancet, ii. for 1909, p. 896. Supersensitisation.—*S'ee Anaphy- laxis; lummTY {Theories). Supra - Acromiotomy. — See Em- bryotomy {Cleidotomy). Suprarenal in.—One of many trade names for the active principle of the suprarenal gland. Suprarenin.—One of many trade names for the active principle of the adrenal. Suprasymphysary Section. — See CyESAREAN SECTION {Methods). Surg^ery, Asepsis in. General Principles .... 348 Strict Asepsis ..... 348 Asepsis ivith Antisepsis . . . 348 Individuality of the Patient . . 349 Special Technique .... 349 Operating Room ..... 349 Operating Table ..... 350 Preparation of Patient . . . 350 Preparation of Operator . . .351 Preparation of Sutures and Ligatures . 352 Preparation of Dressings a7id Swabs . 353 Sterilisers . . . . . .354 During the years which have elapsed since the writing of the article on Aseptic Treat- ment OF Wounds (i. pp. 291-300), the principles upon which the aseptic procedure are based have perhaps changed little ; but the details representing the translation of these principles into action have been altered or modified several times and in many ways. Consequently, the greater part of this article will be concerned with alterations in technique. General Principles.—There is no doubt that, at the present time, the aseptic methods, as they are called, have almost driven anti- septic plans from the field ; but there are not wanting some surgeons who think the pendulum has swung too far in that direction, and who are lifting up their voice against the extremists. In the Bradshaw lecture given in the close of 1908 {Lancet, ii. for 1908, pp. 1797-1804) Sir Watson Cheyne reminded the profession that whilst Lister had proceeded on the main principle of preventing as far as possible the entrance of bacteria into Avounds he had also placed stress on the avoidance of undue irritation of the latter in the process ; his ideal had been efficient exclusion of bacteria with as little irritation of the wounded surfaces as could be secured. Some of the followers of Lister, however, had forgotten the second requisite of successful healing and had deluged their wounds with carbolic acid, thinking that if this were done all other precautions (especi- ally the cleansing and re-cleansing of the operator's hands) might be neglected; the tissues were thus rendered germ-free at the time, but their vitality was so impaired that they readily became the seat of infective processes at a later date. Sir Watson Cheyne believes that the excessive use of antiseptics was one of the causes which led surgical opinion to the other extreme of rigid asepsis ; but there were other causes, such as the statements, constantly made, that satisfactory results could be obtained by ordinary cleanli- ness (true enough of operative work in the peritoneal cavity), that antiseptics by their slow action on spores were inefficient under certain conditions, that the skin could not practically be disinfected (that gloves, there- fore, were necessary), and that the resisting power of the tissues to the invasion of germs was very great. The Bradshaw lecturer criticised these statements and maintained that antiseptics should not be discarded altogether, that their judicious use was advisable and important. Trusting, as he did, to the dis- infection of the skin of the patient and of the operator by means of caibolic acid he did not think that sterilised rubber gloves were absolutely essential; but he regarded them as an extra precaution adding security against carelessness in hand-disinfection, and as an absolute necessity for those who used aseptic methods only. He looked on boiling as a more satisfactory method of disinfecting in- struments than the placing of them in 1 in 20 carbolic lotion; but since the former plan tended to blunt knives, scissors, and needles, he preferred to immerse these things in un- diluted carbolic acid for a short time and then in 1 in 20 solution carbolic solution. This he thought was the safest plan, for even boiling was not instantaneous in its action. Sir M'^atson Cheyne thought that the use of marine sponges, although discarded by so many surgeons for that of swabs, was quite justifiable if they were immersed in 1 in 20 carbolic lotion for a week before employment; swabs did not absorb fluid readily, and threads from them were apt to be left in the wound. He criticised aseptic plans during a long operation, pointing out that dry sterilised