362 SYPHILIS in tabes, paralysis, and syphilis ; it may be the only sign of syphilis. 8. In tabes the propor- tion of males to females affected depends on the social status—i.e. the liability to syphilis. In juvenile general paralysis, where the chances are equal, the sexes are equally affected. Mott's view of the nature of parasyphilitic disease of the nervous system cannot be repro- duced better than in his own words :—" Para- syphilitic disease of the nervous system de- pends on two factors, intrinsic, innate, and extrinsic, acquired—the soil and the seed ; the vital resistance and the specificity of the virus, V All those conditions, which may be in- herited or acquired, and which tend to active metabolism of systems, communities, and groups of neurons functionally correlated, and which, owing to these conditions of stress which in one individual would cause spinal neurasthenia, in another central neurasthenia, will, in con- junction with the stimulating effect of the syphilitic poison, cause the nerve cells to exer- cise an abnormal metabolic activity in the production of the side-chain molecules necessary for immunisation against the toxic effects of the virus. "Ehrlich points out that we cannot suppose that the cells of the body possess /^e?' se an executive defensive capacity to neutralise the noxious effects of all forms of organisms, and his work on hsemolysins shows that the haimo- lysin for the corpuscles of a particular animal only occurs after incorporation of the molecules of those corpuscles. But we may suppose that there is an inherent aptitude for the cells of the body of certain individuals to readily adapt themselves to defence against the action of the syphilitic virus in a race that has been widely syphilised for generations; consequently a larger number will have a mild form of the disease. " The nerve cells are perpetual elements incapable of regeneration, highly differentiated and complex in structure and function, their centre of nutrition is the nucleus, and when decay sets in, the regressive pr'ocess attacks first the fine twigs and branches of the tree, the dendrites and dendrons, and the rootlets; in fact, the process is an inversion of its growth and development. But what should cause this premature decay and lack of durability? for the specific energy of the whole of the neurons in the healthy liody is sufficient to last until the vital spark dies out. " We know that one attack of syphilis confers immunity during the rest of the in- dividual's life, and the experiments of Krafft- Ebing are important to remember in this respect. The nerve elements being perpetual, having acquired a habit of thi'owing off side- chain molecules, will continue to do so during life and will contribute largely to the immunity produced. When there is no longer metabolic equilibrium, and decay sets in, these immune bodies are thrown off in increasing numbers ; this seems probable from the fact that in general paralysis and tabes the quantities increase with the progress of the decay. The process of decay will manifest itself in the earliest stages by an increased irritability and functional activity of the nervous structures, often manifesting itself in a hypercesthesia sexualis, and not infrequently in striking in- tellectual activity, followed in each case by exhaustion and loss of function. "The uselessness of antisyphilitic remedies is thus easily accounted for; indeed, they are generally positively injurious in true tabes and general paralysis, because they lower the vital energy in a system which has over-immunised itself against the syphilitic virus. The only hope of doing any good is by an early diagnosis of the disease and suppression of all those exciting causes which use up the nervous energy and tend to overturn the metabolic equilibrium of the central nervous system, causing its premature decay. This may explain a well-known fact, first pointed out by Benedikt, that tabetic patients who become blind from optic atrophy remain in the pi'eataxic stage a great number of years. Neuro-potential or nerve energy is for the most part used up in mental processes involving attention. The loss of sight necessitates mental inactivity provided the patient does not worry. My experience is that these cases of optic atrophy generally either remain in the preataxic stage or develop general paralysis. I have found in the history of the latter great mental depression arising from the loss of sight. Possibly some remedy may be found which will allay this hyper- nutritive and metabolic activity of the nervous system. It is, in my opinion, a fact that general paralytics and tabetics are very fre- quently mentally and physically superior to the average indi\idual who belongs to the same social status, and I have always considered it probable that the frequent indulgence of abnormally strong sexual desires stimulated by many causes, especially alcohol, is, after syphilis, the most important factor in the production of tabes and general paralysis. It acts in two ways—(1) directly by exhaustion of neuro- potential ; (2) indirectly in the male by the excessive loss to the body of highly phosphorised nucleo-proteids contained in the sperm. These are bio-chemical substances possessed of great specific energy, and are not easily replaced." Treatment of Syphilis by Intramuscular Injections of Mercury.—This method of giving mercury has been revived in recent years, especially in the army. Lieut.-Col. Lambkin states that the success which has attended it is out of all proportion to that which was obtained by the older methods.