69 BLOOD as negligible have a profound effect on the coagulation time—are, indeed, the actual cause of the variations which have been observed, and which have been erroneously ascribed to the administration of drugs, etc. For a full description of the apparatus, and the technique which must be observed in its use, the reader is referred to Addis's paper {Quarterly Journ. Exper. Physiology, Nov. 1908). According to Addis, the following conditions ai'e essential to the accurate determination of the coagulation time of the blood by any method:—1. The blood must be obtained under the same conditions in each experiment. This condition is sufficiently fulfilled by (a) taking the first blood which flows after punc- ture, and {h) thoroughly cleansing the skin and all apparatus from previously shed blood and fibrin ferment. 2. All estimations must be at the same temperature; the coagulation time of the blood vaiies regularly with the temperature. At 3"2.5° C. it is 63 mins. 20 sees.; as the temperature rises it steadily diminishes, ixntil at 36° it is only 1 min. 25 sees.; thereafter it begins to increase up to the temperature of 51 •5°, when it is 5 mins. 15 sees. At higher temperatures coagulation is interfered with. Within the ordinary limits of room temperature great variations occur :— Temp. C." Coag. Time. Mins. Sees. 10-25 21 30 12-25 16 30 13-5 14 32 15-5 11 46 16-5 10 10 17-5 8 27 18-5 7 34 19-5 6 2 20-5 5 22 3. In each observation the blood must be in contact with the same amount and kind of foreign body. 4. The end point must be clear and definite, and must always indicate the same degree of coagulation. With Addis's apparatus, three possilile stages might be taken as indicating coagulation — (1) The earliest appearance of a streak of clot; (2) the stoppage of the main flow of blood and the clear appear- ance of a laminated clot; (3) complete cessation of flow. The second of these can be most accurately determined. In health there is pi-actically no variation in the time of coagulation of the blood. The differences which have been observed are en- tirely explained by variations in temperatur-e. The coagulation time shows no diurnal valua- tion such as has been described by some authors. What is more important, perhaps, is the fact that the administration of calcium salts does not increase, nor the administration of citrates diminish, the coagulability of the blood. The coagulometer described is in- applicable to a number of pathological con- ditions, and the results quoted apply to normal individuals. In a number of diseases the cor- puscles tend to become agglutinated by their own serum, which hinders their flow, and makes it im- possible to determine when coagulation occurs. Estimation of the Calcium Salts of the Blood.—Blair Bell has devised a method of estimating the calcium of the blood which is applicable to clinical work. Calcium exists in the blood in two forms—a non-dissociable form in combination with the protein molecules, and an ionizable form. Only the ionic calcium (which alone is concerned in coagulation) can be estimated by Bell's calcimeter. The instru- ment consists of a series of accurately calibrated pipettes. Into one of these 100 c.mm. blood is sucked, and is then thoroughly mixed with 250 c.mm. 1 in 30 aqueous solution of oxalic acid (Merck's chem. pure). After standing for ten minutes there is added 250 c.mm. of a mixture of acetic acid (1 per cent.), 95 parts, and glycerin, 5 parts, to break up the corpuscles, and the mixture is thoroughly shaken. Of this mixture 100 c.mm. is added to 500 c.mm. distilled water, and a drop is placed on a Thoma counting chamber. The crystals of calcium oxalate which have formed are counted in 256 small squares (16 sets of 16). An average of 1 crystal per square = calcium index = 1 part of CaO in 6000 distilled water. The crystals are exceedingly miimte, and are often diflUcult to discern. Artificial light should be used for counting. Considerable practice is required before the observer's results can be depended on. In ordinary adults the nor- mal standard varies from 1 to 4000 to 1 to 5000 CaO in the blood. Addis investigated the accuracy of this method by comparing the counts in normal animal serum, and animal serum diluted with distilled water, and with solutions of calcium of known strength. He found that the limit of unavoidable error was between 6 and 7 per cent., and as the calcium index fluctuates con- sidera])ly, this may be i-egarded as com- paratively negligil)le. Addis further showed that the administration of citric acid rapidly lowered the index {e.g. from -92 to '67 in an hour and a half), and that calcium salts as rapidly raised it {e.g. from -8 to 2 in the course of twenty-four hours, and from -91 to 1-14 in an hour). As stated in the preceding para^ graphs, these changes in the calcium contents of the blood do not influence its coagulation time —indeed, it is probable that the variations in the calcium which follow ordinary doses are too small to affect coagulation under any circumstances. LITERATURE. — Blood Corpuscles.—Gbawitz. Klin. Path. d. Bluten, 2nd ed. (Vienna).—Hirsch- FELD. Berl. Iclin. Wochewchr., p. 1019, 1901.— MiCHAELis. Deutsch. med. Wochenschr., p. 651, 1901.— Paphenheim. Folia haematolo'jica, 1905.—Gullasd.