239 LEPIDOMAS stroma, of meseiichymatous origin, may be pre- sent between the groups of cells" (Adami). The lepidomas have been divided into two orders: in the first are (1) those of epiblastic origin, such as papillomas, epidermal adenomas, squamous epitheliomata, and carcinomata of glands of epiblastic origin, and (2) those of hypoblastic origin, such as adenomata and papillomas of the digestive and respiratory tract, of the thyroid, bladder, liver, etc., and carcinomata developing in these regions and organs; in the second are the transitional lepidomas, of which some are (1) of mesothelial origin, e.g. adenomata of the kidney, testicle, ovary, uterus, and prostate, and cancers of these organs, along with squamous endotheliomas of serous surfaces, hypernephromas, etc., whilst others (2) are of endothelial origin, such as lymphangio-endotheliomas, hgemangio-endothe- liomas, psammomas, some cylindromas, peri- theliomas, etc. See Adami, Pathology, i. pp. 703, 705, 775, 806, 1910. Leprosy.—In the treatment of leprosy Professor Deycke claims to have obtained re- markable results by the use of injections of nastin, which is a neutral fat obtained from streptothrix leproides, which was cultivated in pure culture from leprous tissue. By these in- jections a distinct general and local reaction may be produced. Benzoyl-nastin is said to be superior to pure nastin, and when injected to remove the fat from the leprosy bacillus, which then becomes easily destroyed by the tissues. Until more work is done on the sub- ject a definite opinion cannot be formed of its value, but the results are promising. REFERENCES.—Detcke, Lepra-Bihliotheka Inter- 'Mitionalis, vii. p. 3 ; The Therapist, 1908, pp. 28, 37 ; Brit. Med. Journ., 4th April 1908. Leube'S Test.—A means of testing gastric motility, consisting in giving a Riegel Test Meal, and washing out the stomach with a litre of water six hours later ; the presence of only slight traces of food indicates normal motility of the stomach. LeuCOfermantin.—A Merck prepara- tion, described as a normal animal serum whose antiferment property has been so far increased as to correspond at least to the anti-tryptic index of normal blood serum; it is recom- mended in inflammatory processes accompanied by suppuration and fermentation where it is wished to prevent great destruction of tissue ; in the case of open suppurative foci it is simply poured on to the cavity, whilst in other cases a small incision is made to evacuate the pus and receive the leucofermantin. For Report see Lancet, i. for 1910, p. 653. Leukasmia,.—The cause of leukaemia is still as great a mystery as ever. Lbwit's theory of its parasitic origin has never received any confirmation, and is now universally abandoned. From the pathological side all observers are agreed that, whatever form the disease assumes, the primary lesion is in the bone marroAv. A very great deal has been written about the malady during the past five or six years, and the principal new facts which have been brought out may be considered under the heads of—1. Atypical Forms of Leukajmia ; 2. Leukauffimia ; 3. X-ray Treatment. 1. Atypical Forms of Leukaemia.—It would be wrong to say that the classical distinction between lymphatic and splenomedullary leuk- aemia has been given up, for the two main types of the disease are so well marked, and in most cases present such characteristic features, that as a matter of convenience they must be re- tained. There is, nevertheless, a growing body of evidence that they are more closely related than used to be supposed. A number of cases have now been described which do not conform strictly to the classical type, and while it would encroach unduly on the available space to refer to these in any detail, some of the main facts about them may be discussed under the follow- ing heads :— (1) Leukreniia ivithout Leucocytosis.—Leuk- emia may exist with little or no increase in the total number of leucocytes; it may even be associated with leucopenia. Cases which show this peculiarity are generally of the lymphocytic variety, and in them the differential count will show 90 per cent, of lymphocytes or more. The diagnosis rests on the high percentage of these cells, not on the total number present. An exception to this rule must be made in the case of young children, in whom slight leucocytosis with a high lymphocyte count is normal. In some cases of anaemia in children one finds a great diminution of the red corpuscles and of the granular leucocytes, without affection of the lymphocytes. When this occurs there may be a blood count of (say) 8000 to 10,000 leucocytes with 90 per cent, of lymphocytes. Yet under iron these cases often make a complete recovery. The explanation of the peculiar blood change is to be found in some interference with the func- tion of the marrow, the normal activity of the lymphatic tissues remaining unimpaired. In the adult, however, a lymphocyte count of 90 per cent, or over justifies the diagnosis of leukaemia, irrespective of the total leucocy- tosis. Low leucocyte counts with a large percentage of myelocytes mostly occur in acute myelocytic leukaemia {vide infra) and in cases treated by X-rays. Cases of lymphatic leukaemia with a low white count have been described as " aleuk- aemic leukaemia," and as "aplastic leukaemia." Wollf ^ recorded one such in which there was aplasia of the marrow, and states that the