RONTGEN RAYS AND RADIUM 326 cent, collargol solution (which is impervious to the rays) is slowly introduced. The amount which can he injected without pain is from 5 to 40 c.c. Tumours of the hypophysis in cases of acro- megaly have been detected by means of skia- grams. It has not yet been found possible to obtain skiagrams showing gall-stones. X-rays in Pcediatrics.—Hotch. suggests that for many purposes a physiological and ana- tomical standard of development is superior to a mere age standard. As an index of development he proposes the development of the carpal bones and the lower epiphyses of the radius and ulna as ascertained by X-rays. He believes that such an index would form a sounder basis for classification, as in connection with school work, athletics, child labour, etc. —than the age standard in use. Plastic Jionfgeyigrams.—So-called " plastic X-ray photographs," in which the bones, in- stead of being mere shadow-pictures, show out their details in apparent relief, were exhibited for the first time by Alexander at the Medical Society of Buda-Pesth in 1906, and, as the method by which they were produced was kept secret for a time, a good deal of curiosity was excited and a number of papers on the subject appeared. The procedure, shortly, is this : The object to be photographed is ex- posed twice on the same plate, first with a hard, then with a soft tube. From the negative a positive is made, and the two are adjusted in contact and exact register. From the com- bined negative-positive a print or positive is then made. Plastic rontgengrams are certainly striking; whether they depict what actually exists, and how far they are merely results of a clever photographic dodge, is doubtful. R6ntge7i Kinematography.—Having succeeded in getting skiagrams with exposures of tjV'to sec, Geordel has devised an apparatus for obtaining serial views of the heart and stomach, which, when suitably projected, give a kine- matographic I'epresentation of the movements of the oi'gan. Ortliodiagrwph.—The use of the orthodia- graph for the exact delineation of the boun- daries of the heart is described on p. 173. The instrument has also been used to outline the stomach, etc. 2. Radium.—This remarkable substance was discovered by M. and Mme. Curie in 1898. The discovery was not made suddenly, but was led up to by researches extending back to the middle of the nineteenth century, when Geissler showed that an electric discharge through a vacuum tube caused the tube to glow. In 1879 Crookes discovered that the luminosity was produced at the negative end of the tube, and in 1895 Rontgen, finding that the rays from a Crookes's tube caused barium cyanide to fluoresce, was led to further experi- ments which culminated in the discovery of the Rontgen rays. J. J. Thomson proved that Crookes's cathodal rays consisted of a stream of negatively charged material particles, and that Rontgen's X-rays were a series of discon- nected, non-periodic pulsations caused by the impact of the particles forming the cathodal rays against the glass of the tube. In 1896 Becquerel found that certain uranium compounds emitted a radiation akin to that of the Ront- gen rays, but in very feeble amount. Follow- ing up this clue the Curies discovered that certain ores of uranium and thorium—the pitchblendes—were even more radio-active than the former element itself. After a laborious research, which involved separating pitchblende into its constituents and testing each separately, Mme. Curie showed that this radio-activity was due to two new elements — polonium, which about equals uranium, and radium, which in its pure state is about two million times as active. Radium belongs to the group of alkaline metals ; it is intermediate between barium and thorium, and has not been isolated in the pure state. It would probably behave like sodium and oxidise rapidly. The bromide and chloride of radium are the salts employed. These are extracted from pitchblende, and in the succes- sive stages of this isolation Mme. Curie used an electroscope by which the ionisation of air by radio-active bodies can be detected. In this way she learned whether the radio-active sub- stance she sought was in the precipitate or in the filtrate after each step in the process. Pure radium chloride is a white crystalline salt with an atomic weight of 225. The amount present in different minerals bears a constant ratio (1:1,000,000) to their uranium content. A ton of Joachimsthal pitchblende yields about '17 gramme of radium. Radium has the peculiarity of maintaining itself at a temperature of 2° to 3° Fahr. above the surrounding air—100 calories per gram per hour; it thus gives off enough heat every hour to melt its own weight of ice, and goes on doing this indefinitely without undergoing appreciable change. It also has the power of ionising gases ; that is, it converts the air between the terminals of an electric current into a conductor — a property made use of in measuring ratio- activity. Its third property is that of giving oflf an emanation, and emitting rays. The emanation is of the nature of a luminous gas which can be condensed by cold, and which imparts radio-activity to objects in its path. The radiations ai'e divided into alpha, beta, and gamma rays. They all act on photographic plates, excite phosphorescence, and discharge electrified bodies. The a rays consist of a stream of positively charged particles about twice the size of a hydrogen atom, projected at