CHAUFFEUR'S FRACTURE 101 attempt has been made by the chauffeur to start them without retarding the spark; the blow is given by the crank handle revolving suddenly, and the fracture is transverse or oblique into the wrist joint; three weeks are needed for recovery; and the injury is often mistaken at iii'st for a strain. Chapman's Food. — A proprietary preparation; entire wheat flour. See Report in British Medical Journal, i. for 1910, p. 1240. Cheltine Food.—A proprietary food preparation, the analysis of which is given in the British Medical Journal, i. for 1910, p. 1240. "Chemical Juice."—ASee Digestion {Gastric). Chittenden's Standard Diet,— See Diet. Chloride-free Diet.—.See Nephritis, Treatment of {Dechlorination). Chloroma. Clinical Features . . .101 Changes in the Blood . . .101 Localisation of the Tumours . . 101 Colour 102 Pathology 102 Classification 102 Literature 102 Chloroma is a rare disease, characterised by progressive anaemia and asthenia, greenish tumour-like deposits in various parts of the body, most typically in the temporal regions and orbits, and a leuksemic condition of the blood. It is more common in males than females, usually occurs before the age of twenty, and is invariably fatal within a few weeks or months of its onset. Between 1893 and 1904 about twenty-one cases were reported, and since that date a considerable number of others have been described, without, however, adding materially to our knowledge of the disease. Clinical Features.—The usual symptoms of profound anaemia are present, and need not be referred to at length. Unless the greenish tumours are visible the diagnosis cannot be made from leukaemia either by physical examina- tion or examination of the blood. In many cases the true nature of the disease has only been discovered at the autopsy. In a well- marked case, however, the aspect is very striking. The chloromatous tumours invade the orbits and temporal regions, causing bilateral proptosis and broadening of the upper part of the face ; the swellings have a distinct greenish- yellow colour, much more apparent than the green tint which is sometimes present in chlorosis, and this is quite characteristic On post-mortem examination the chloromatous deposits are found dispersed widely throughout the organs ; and they are sometimes localised in superficial parts of the body other than the cranium, so as to be visible as greenish tumours during life. Thus Schmidt records a green discoloration of the skin of the face, and Bram- well and Hitschmann nodular green tumours of the skin. In Dunlop's patient, one of the first in which a correct diagnosis during life was made, green deposits appeared on l)oth conjunctivae. Among other noteworthy symptoms which have been met with in the disease are Bence Jones's albumosuria, deafness, blindness, haemor- rhages, ulceration about the mouth, enormous swelling of the gums (Bramwell), tumour- formation in the breasts, and enlargement of the spleen, liver, and glands. Chloroma, there- fore, is protean in its symptoms, but, as Dock states, most of them can be referred to one of three causes :—the mechanical result of the green growths—exophthalmos, blindness, deaf- ness ; the toxic symptoms—asthenia, fever, and emaciation ; and the blood symptoms— pallor, haemorrhages, and the abnormal blood picture. Changes in the Blood.—In all cases care- fully examined leuksemic condition of the blood has been found. The full picture of luekaemia, however, does not always develop. Sometimes there is at the beginning a normal, or almost normal white count, but even with this there will generally be found a relative excess of lymphocytes — e.g. Bram well's case, which showed only 8000 leucocytes, with 95 per cent, of (mostly large) lymphocytes. As a rule, the blood corresponds with the picture of lymphatic leukaemia, but in several cases a myelocytic condition has been seen. Cases intermediate between the two also occur—e.g. Dunlop's patient, who during the early stage of the disease had a less leucocyte count (24,000), with between 70 and 80 per cent, of lymphocytes, and during the later stages a leucocyte count of 123,000, with nearly 15 per cent, of neutrophile myelocytes. Localisation of the Chloromatous Tumours.—In nearly all cases some part of the head is involved—the orbits, dura, temporal bones, especially the temporal fossa and auditory region, sphenoid and ethmoid, are favourite sites. The vertebrae, ribs, sternum, clavicles, pelvis, and diploe of the skull are also fre- quently involved. New growths also occur in the viscera, especially in the kidneys, liver, glands, and spleen—indeed, scarcely any organ can be mentioned which has not been affected