319 PYCNOMETER first empty, then filled with distilled water, and then with the liquid (blood, urine, etc.) to be determined; the weight of the empty pycno- meter is subtracted from that of it filled with the liquid {e.g. blood), and then this figure is divided by the difference in weight between the pycnometer filled with water and the same empty ; the result is the specific gravity of the liquid, water being regarded as unity. See Webster, Diagnostic Methods., pp. 386-7, 1909. Pyelitis, Acute, in infants.— Acute pyelitis is not very rare in infants and young children. Its symptoms are misleading to those unacquainted with the disease. If undiagnosed it is an alarming illness, but it responds promptly to proper treatment. Little girls are much more often affected than boys, the reason being that the disease is due to an ascending infection with h. coli, to which the urinary tract in the female is obviously more liable than that of the male. The constitu- tional symptoms overshadow the local ones. There is sudden pyrexia, which persists until the pyelitis subsides. The temperature curve is remittent, and somewhat resembles that of typhoid. The children are much distressed, sometimes delirious, and sometimes show squinting. These head symptoms are apt to suggest the presence of a meningitis. Rigors are not uncommon; as they are very rare in infants except in this disease and malaria, their presence is highly suggestive. Dr. Thomson, to whom we owe the best treatment of pyelitis, says : " The four cases [of pyelitis] here referred to are the only instances in which I remember to have seen young children who had rigors; and I have not been able to find an account of any case in which this symptom occurred in a child under two years, who had not malaria, without there being pus in the urine." Local symptoms are so slight as readily to escape notice. There may be frequent and painful micturition, excoriation of the vulva, or fissure ■of the anus. Tenderness in the loin may be made out. The urine is always acid, generally extremely so, contains pus, and swarms with b. coli. The treatment is to render the urine neutral oi' alkaline by the administration of alkaline remedies as speedily as possible, and to keep it so until all the symptoms have dis- appeared (Thomson). Potassium citrate must be given in large doses (48 to 60 grs. or more in the twenty-four hours). Under this treat- ment the temperature speedily falls, and though the drug causes nausea and depression, it should be persevered with, because if it is prematurely discontinued, the temperature may rise again and the symptoms occur. Phosphate of soda may be given as a laxative if one is required. REFERENCE.—Thomson, Scott. Med. and Surg. Journ., July 1902. PyOCya.na,Se>—A germicidal liquid, pre- pared from cultures of the pyocyaneus organism, and used as a mouth disinfectant in diphtheria, scarlet fever, etc. See Lancet, ii. for 1909, pp. 1376, 1678. Bronner has used it locally in ulceration of the cornea {Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1910, p. 1175). Pyramidon. — A drug of the anti- pyrin group, being dimethyl-amido-autipyrin (CisHiyNjO); it is a crystalline powder soluble in water; in doses of from 3 to 8 grains it is given as an analgesic and antipyretic ; it has a more powerful effect than antipj'rin, but it is said not to have any dangerous action on the heart and circulation, and to have few unpleasant by-effects (rashes, vomiting, cyanosis, etc.); it has been given in an enema and even hypo- dermically. There are also camphorates and a salicylate of pyramidon, recommended in pul- monary tuberculosis and in acute rheumatism respectively. See Fortescue-Brickdale, Newer Remedies, pp. 232-235, 1910. Pyrantin. — A drug of the phenacetin group, being a succinic acid derivative of phenetidin ; it is recommended for hypodermic use in the form of a soluble sodium salt; for its antipyi'etic effect it is given in doses of from 15 to 45 gi-ains, and part of the loss of heat which follows its employment has Ijeen ascribed to its action as a protoplasmic poison. See Fortescue-Brickdale, Newer Remedies, p. 224, 1910. Pyrenol. — A proprietary preparation recommended as a remedy for whooping-cough, and said to contain benzoic acid, thymol, sodium benzoate, and sodium salicylate. Pyretogenic Stage.—The stage of fervescenee (rising temperature, etc.) in the process of injection. "Quartzlite" Lamp.—A mercury quartz lamp suitable for the illumination of large open spaces, and said to effect a chemical and bacteriological purification of the air (by the production of ozone and by the action of the ultra-violet rays) ; the electricity is dis- charged through attenuated mercury vapoui'. See Lancet, ii. for 1910, p. 953. Quinaplienin.—A quinine substitute, being a compound of that drug with phene- tidin ; it is tasteless, and the dose is from 2i to 5 grains. Quinapllthoi.—A quinine substitute consisting of a sulphate of /3-naphthol and quinine ; its dose is 8 grains, and it is slightly soluble in hot water.