379" TUBERCULOSIS (Lond.), 1908. — Bulloch, Lancet, 2ncl Dec. 1905.— Sahli, Corr.-bl. f. Schweiz. Aerzte, 15th June, 1st July 1906.—R. W. Philip, Edi7i. Med. Journ., Feb. 1909. TuberoseSclerosiS.—Until compara- tively recent years our knowledge of mental defect has remained very much at the level of what our knowledge of organic nervous disease was fifty years ago, when "paralysis" was considered a complete and sufficient diagnosis. The studies of neurologists showed that paralj^sis was merely a symptom, and that the cases grouped under the general head were really examples of a great variety of clinical and pathological conditions. In the same way we are now learning to recognise among idiots and imbeciles many different types, some of them, such as mongolism, distinguished mainly by their clinical features, others, such as syphilitic dementia, by their cause and course, others, such as amaurotic idiocy, by their well-defined symptoms and a characteristic anatomical lesion. There is every reason, however, to believe that the great group of idiots, imbeciles, and mental defectives is capable of still further classification on a clinico-pathological basis—in a Avord, that when they are submitted to the same searching investigation as other cases of nervous disease have been, we shall find that we have been comprehending under a generic name diseases which are essentially different from one another. It may, of course, be argued that since mental defect is incurable little good can be expected to ensue : the answer to this is found in the statement that only when we can recognise the varieties which undoubtedly exist shall we be able to give a definite prognosis as to the mental future, and as to the duration of life, or to give the best advice as to the line of treat- ment, institutional or otherwise, required. The most recently isolated type of mental defect is that which has as its pathological basis a lesion of the brain first described by Bourne- ville in 1880 as tuberose sclerosis. In the twenty or twenty-four years following his paper only ten or a dozen further cases were recorded, and the condition was looked on merely as a rather rare pathological curiosity. During the last few years, however, since the inmates of imbecile institutions have received more attention from physicians and pathol- ogists, it has been found that tuberose sclerosis is less rare than was supposed, and that the patients have sufficiently well-marked symptoms during life to render a correct diagnosis possible in a number of cases. In the light of the work of recent observers, among whom the names of Vogt and Pellizzi must especially be mentioned, tuberose sclerosis may be characterised as a tumour-like lesion of the cerebral cortex, with the simultaneous occurrence of tumours of the kidney, and of the skin, and sometimes of the heart and other viscera. It is a congenital disease and is associ- ated with a greater or less degree of progressive mental deterioration, almost invariably with epilepsy, and often with adenoma sebaceum. It is usually fatal at a comparatively early age. Tuberose sclerosis has attracted more atten- tion from the pathologist than the clinician, and the lesions have been the subject of a number of papers. The naked-eye appearance of the brain is so characteristic as to render the recog- nition of the condition easy. Scattered here and there over the surface of the cerebrum single convolutions, or adjacent parts of con- volutions, stand up, broader than usual, above the rest of the surface of the brain-like little tumours. They are hard to the touch, and look and feel like hypertrophied brain tissue. The pia is normal and strips readily; there is. no evidence of inflammatory change, and the general configuration of the brain is in no wise altered, save for the nodular appearance of many of the convolutions. On section the nodular areas are greyish-white in colour and merge insensibly into the white matter of the brain, the distinction between cortex and medulla being obliterated. In addition to this lesion, small tumour-like outgrowths are gener- ally found on the walls of the lateral ventricles, chiefly in the thalamic region. In rare cases the cerebellum is also the seat of tuberose sclerosis, and sometimes little tumours occur in the fourth as well as the lateral ventricles. A very remarkable feature of the disease is the fact that in about half of the cases recorded tumours have been found in the kidneys, and as in many reports the kidneys were not examined it is probable that the association is actually more frequent. The renal tumours are usually described as of the nature of hyper- nephromata, and in one or two instances were the immediate cause of death. Among other internal organs liable to be involved by tumour growth, the heart comes next in frequency. Small whitish tumours of embryonic muscular tissue (rhabdomyomata) are described in its wall in several cases. In one case an adeno- matous tumour of the thyroid was present. Without considering the histological appear- ances in detail, it may be said that the changes in the nervous system consist of maldevelop- ment and degeneration of the pyramidal cells of the cortex, and overgrowth of glial tissue. Sailer describes it as a nodular gliosis. The A'isceral tumours are variously described as sarcomata, liposarcomata, adenomata, etc. The connecting link between these various lesions is that all are of a developmental nature. The disease is unquestionably con- genital, because it may occur in a well-marked degree in infants only a month or two old ; in these early cases there is distinct evidence of maldevelopment of the nerve cells, as well as