171 HAY FEVER Eugene S. Yonge). Bilateral excision of the tubei'cle of the nasal septum has also been tried. LITERATURE.—Dunbar, Deutschemed. Wochensch., No. ix., 1903 ; Berl. Kin. Wochensch., 15th June, 22nd and 29th July 1903.—Article " Hay Fever," Oslek and M'Ckae's System of Medicine, vol. iii., London, 1908.— Skmon, Brit. Med. Journ., 28th March, 18th April, 18th July 1903.—Yonge, E. S., Hay Fever and Par- oxysmal Snee'dng, 1910. Heart, Diseases of. Methods OF Examination . . .171 Graphic Methods . . . . .171 Electro-Cardiograms . . . .173 Ortho-Diagraphy. . . . .173 Literature . . . . . .173 Anatomy and Physiology . . .173 Irregular Action OF Heart . .175 1. Irregularities from Failure of Con- ducting Povjer of the Primitive Bundle—Heart-block . . .175 2. Simis Irregidarity . . . .177 3. Extra-Systoles . . . .177 4. Nodal Rhythm . . . .178 5. Irregularity due to Depression of the Contractility of the Ventricle . 179 Clinical Diagnosis . . . .179 Significance. . . . . .180 Literature 180 In no department of medicine has there been greater advance in recent years than in the study of diseases of the circulation. Progress has come from work along two main lines, viz. investigations into the anatomy and physiology of the heart, and the application to clinical work of new methods, particularly in the direc- tion of obtaining graphic records of the move- ments of the several chambers of the heart. Graphic Methods.—For clinical purposes, Dr. James Mackenzie's clinical polygraph is one of the simplest instruments. Two forms are in use :—1. A Dudgeon's sphygmograph with an additional writing lever actuated by a tambour, which is connected by a rubber tube to a hollow metallic cup or receiver IJ ins. in diameter and |-an-inch deep. This receiver is applied over the jugular vein when a record of the venous pulse is desired. For recording the liver pulsations a larger receiver is employed. A time marker may be attached to the sphygmo- graph. With this instrument simultaneous trac- ings of the A'enous and radial pulses, timed in fifths of a second, can be secured on an ordinary smoked paper. 2. The ink polygraph is a more elaborate instrument, and is used when tracings have to be taken over a longer period of time than a sphygmograph allows of. In the ink polygraph the writing points are ink cisterns with pens attached, fixed to the levers of two tambours ; the record is made on a continuous roll of paper. One tambour is connected with a receiver for the venous or liver pulse ; the other is connected with a third tambour, which is adapted to fit on a splint strapped over the wrist so that a spring in the splint rests against the radial artery. When the tambour is slipped into position on the splint it impinges against the spring, so that it conveys the movements of the pulse to the tambour furnished with a pen, and this records the movements on the roll of paper. The ink polygraph is furnished M'ith a time marker recording fifths of a second, and an arrangement for varying the speed at which the strip of paper travels. A full account of the use of these instru- ments will be found in Dr. Mackenzie's Diseases of the Heart (London : 1908). He also gives a full description of the characteristics of the various tracings which may be obtained. Here we shall only refer to the radial and venous tracings, as these afford the most generally useful information as to the action of the heart, and the events in the circulation. The jugular pulse is recorded while the patient lies down, the shoulders being slightly raised on a pillow, and the head turned a little to the right. The hollow receiver of the poly- graph is applied to the neck just above the inner end of the right clavicle with sufficient pressure to exclude the outer air. The receiver may need to be moved about to get the best trace. The normal venous pulse (Fig. 1) shows three main waves :—The auricular wave and fall (a and x), the carotid wave (c), and the ventricidar wave {v). ■< •—I 1 '—1 1—I 1—1—1 ■■—r—r—I , 1 1 ,—,—r—r A- 'l I I'lG. 1.—Normal venous pulse. (After Mackenzie.)