126 ECLAMPSIA 'by hypodermic injection has been highly spoken of (M'Carthy, Bnt. Med. Joi^rn., i. for 1908, p. 1220). Hot packs have been freely employed by some, while others dread their eftect in concentrating the blood and so increasing the amount of toxines in it. The use of thyroid extract and of paraganglin has been already touched upon {vide antea, p. 123). Recently Ballantyne has reported nine cases of eclampsia with no maternal deaths treated by venesection, intravenous injection of saline, stomach wash- ing with bicarbonate of soda solution, the introduction of six ounces of magnesium sul- phate into the stomach by the stomach tube, the giving of a large enema and the hot pack {.lourn. Obstet. and Gyncec. Brit. Empire, xviii. pp. 378-'583,1910). No active measures were taken to expedite labour in any of these cases. The difficulty of coming to any conclusion among all these methods depends on the varying circumstances : sometimes and in some places the disease appears to be milder than in others; seldom does the obstetrician confine himself stiictly to any one line of treatment, but uses several in conjunction, and may even employ two or more which are pharmacologi- cally incompatible ; little or no attempt is made to differentiate types of eclampsia and ■treat differently in accordance with the clinical variety which is presently being dealt with ; and to some extent prejudice and the usage of different schools of obstetrics have hindered the formation of unbiassed opinion. Standing somewhat apart from the various methods of management referred to above are the obstetric treatment and the preventive treatment of eclampsia. With regard to the former, which generally means rapid eitipt.yi^m >of the uterus, there is still a very clearly defined difference of opinion. Those, who per-haps re- present the obstetricians of the past, who maintained that "meddlesome midwifety is bad," cry out against operative interference to terminate labour: these, who perhaps take the place to-day of the men whose watchword was "delays are dangerous," are insistent upon the necessity of removing from the interior of the uterus the foetus and the placenta, one or both of which they regaixl as the causal factor in the production of the convulsions. Much has been said and written on both sides dui'ing the past five or six years (vide, for instance, the discussion in the Brit. Med. Jouru., 23rd September 190-o), but the general impression left on the mind after a careful I'eading of the literature of the subject (great in amount and of varying value) is that, on the whole, those who advocate early emptying of the uterus and who employ the safest methods of doing so have achieved results which compare favour- ably with those obtained by others who pursue more conservative methods. Bumm's statistics as quoted by Liepmann (Munch, med. Wocheusch., lii. p. 2484, 1905) and by Bumm himself (^Deutsche med. Wochensch., xxxiii. p. 1945, 1907) , although they have been attacked by Hastings Tweedy {.loitrn. Obstet. and Gyncec. Brit. Emp., x. p. 106, 1906), are strikingly in favour of early operative interference; and Osterloh {Miinch. med. Wochensch., Iv. p 553, 1908) at Dresden, and Esch {Zeitsch.f. Geburtsh. ■u. Gyudk., Iviii. p. 11, 1906) for the Olshausen Clinique at Berlin, are agreed in recommend- ing immediate termination of all the cases of eclampsia in which there is marked disturbance of the general condition (coma, fever, rapid pulse, etc.). At the same time, the other side has constantly to be heard, and it cannot be said that this matter is definitely decided; evidence is still being led. If, however, the obstetrician have decided to terminate labour quickly, it may be asked whether the obstetric advances of the past six or seven years have furnished him with any better methods of rapidly emptying the uterus than he possessed in the nineteenth century. Let us look first at Bossi's 7neta,llic dilator (with its modifications by Frommer and others), which was introduced in Italy during the last decade of the past century. In eight cases of complicated labour (in three of which eclampsia foi'med the complication) Ballantyne employed Bossi's dilator, and all the three mothers recovered {Trans. Edin. Obstet. Soc, xxix. p. 76, 1903-4); at the same time he regarded it as an exceptional method, to be employed in exceptional cases, and did not minimise its dangers. It was about this time that dilatation of the cervix with the Bossi instrument and others of similar type was being most often performed, if we may judge by the literature of the subject, and among many articles we may name those of Cocq (Bui/, soc. beige de gyne'c. et d'obs/et., xiv. p. 116, 1903-4), Hartz '{Mouats^ch. f. Geburtsh. u. Gyndk., xix. p. 91, 1904), de Seigneux (Arch, f. Gynaek., Ixx. p. 614, 1903), Bossi {Arch. ital. di ginec, vii. p. 60, 1904), Ricci (ibid., p. 71), Armstrong (Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 1904, p. 717), Kerr (Glasgow Med. Journ., Ixi. p. 169, 1904), Hahl (Arch. f. Gynaek, Ixxi. p 509, 1904), Nubiola (Rev de med. y drug., xviii. p. 241, 1904), F. Montuoro {H taglio cesareo ed ilparto forzato (Genova), 1904), and Frommer iZentralh' f. Gynak., xxviii. p. 1017, 1904). From this time onward we hear less of met- allic dilators in eclampsia and more of cutting operations {vide infra). In 1905, for instance, we find Hamnierschlag (Zeitsch. f. Gebnrtsh. u. Gynak., Ivi. p. 351, 1905), after an experience of twenty-five cases, stating that Bossi's dilator should only be used by the specialist; and Holdich Leicester (Joum. Ohstet. and Gynrec. Brit. Emp., xi. p. 230, 1907) thought it should be employed onl.y by those accus- tomed to perform major obstetrical operations.