201 IMMUNITY or where there is a suspicion of miliary tuberculosis. This is regarded as the most ceitain and delicate test for tuberculosis. Some healthy persons react, probably because they harbour obsolete tubercle, and this detracts to some extent from its clinical value. 2. Pirquet's Cutaneous Reaction.—For this, old tuberculin diluted with 2 parts of normal saline and 1 part 5 per cent, carbolic-glycerine is employed. A drop is placed on the skin, and the epidermis is scarified through it. A control scarification through normal saline should be made an inch or two distant. It is important to make the two abrasions equal in depth and extent, so that no doubt may arise as to the result; and to attain this the best instrument to use for vaccination is a small dental burr, the effect of which can be exactly regulated. A positive reaction shows itself in from six to eight hours, and attains its maxi- mum in twenty-four hours. According to the intensity of the reaction a papule surrounded l:)y a varying degree of erythema develops. There is sometimes vesiculation, and occasion- ally slight pigmentation is left behind after the papules disappear. The clinical value of the cuti-reaction is detracted from by the fact that a large number of apparently healthy adults (80 per cent, according to some observers) respond to it, presumably because it reveals obsolete tubercle. It is, therefore, of clinical value only in children under five, some say under two, years. Statistics:—For adults, collating Mainini, Wollf, and Goebel, we find 84 positive reactions in 96 cases of tuberculosis; 137 reactions in 195 suspects; and 101 re- actions in 128 clinically normal persons. In children, Goebel, Ferrand and Lemaire, Bing, and Pirquet give 95 positive T'eactions in 128 tuberculous patients ; 44 reactions among 68 suspects; and 21 reactions among 93 clinically non-tuberculous. The cuti-reaction is devoid of risk, and there are no contra-indications to its use. Moro's salve reaction is simply a modification of Pirquet's test, and presents no advantages over the original method. An ointment con- sisting of 5 c.c. old tuberculin and 5 grams anhydrous lanolin is rubbed into the skin ; a positive reaction is shown by the occurrence of slight dermatitis. 3. Calniette's Oculo-Be'ictiou.—Although this test is associated with the name of Calmette, who has done most to popularise it and extend its use, he was actually anticipated in his publication of the method (19th June 1907) by WoUf-Eisner, who independently described it on 8th and 15th May 1907 at meetings of the Berliner Medlzinische Gesellschaft. Hence in Germany it is also known as the WoUf-Eisner reaction. The test consists in the instillation of a drop of a weak solution of tuberculin into one conjunctival sac: a positive reaction is shown by a mild attack of conjunctivitis. Wollf-Eisner employed a 10 per cent, solution of tuberculin, while Calmette employs a ^-1 per cent, solution, and in order to avoid the irritating action of glycerine on the conjunctiva he uses exclusively dried tuberculin precipitated by 95 per cent, alcohol, dissolved in sterile distilled water. In Wollf - Eisner's method serious conjunctivitis is rather liable to occur, and now the general custom is to use only the weaker—"5 per cent.—of Calmette's solutions. Citron states that a reaction with 1 per cent, tuberculin points with a high degree of probability to tuberculosis. A reaction with 2 per cent, renders it probable, and no reaction with 4 per cent, solution negatives tubercle, unless the patient is cachectic {vide infra). He advises that a 2 per cent, solution be dropped into the right eye; if no reaction follows, then 4 per cent, solution is inoculated on the opposite side—if, on the contrary, there is a reaction, the second instillation is made with 1 per cent, solution. If the reaction is positive the first signs appear in from three to five hours after in- stillation. There is evident congestion of the palpebral conjunctiva, which quickly becomes oedematous; the caruncle swells and becomes reddened and covered with fibrinous secretion. The vascular engorgement becomes gradually more accentuated, and is accompanied by lachrymation. After six hours the fibrinous exudate increases and collects in shreds in the conjunctival sac. The maximum reaction is attained in from six to ten houi's. There is no pain, little discomfort, no chemosis, and no pyrexia. In children the phenomena usually begin to sultside in the cou'-se of twenty-four or thirty-six hours ; in adults they may last a little longer. Three grades of reaction are distinguishable:—(1) slight, which may pass unnoticed unless the inner canthus is carefully compared with that of the opposite eye ; (2) moderate, giving the appearances of a mild acute conjunctivitis; (3) violent, resembling purulent ophthalmia. The last is rare when a '5 per cent, solution is used. The Calmette test is of great value ; its sole disadvantage is the undeniable, though slight, risk of damage to the eye. This will be referred to later. Campbell has collected statistics up to April 1908. The 4219 cases in his series give these results :— Tuberculous cases . 1675 1426+ 249- =8.5 % positive. Suspected tuberculosis 557 289+ 268- =52 X positive. Non-tuberculous cases 1987 169+ 1818- =91'5 negative. Com2Mrison of the Tuberculin Tests.—It is unanimously agreed that all three tests fail in advanced tuberculosis, in general miliary tuberculosis, and in tuberculous meningitis. This fact probably explains the 15 per cent, or so of negative results in tuberculous patients.