LEUKAEMIA 241 It is possible that the relative involvement of these cells is an index of the profundity of the marrow involvement, the myeloblasts prepon- derating when the marrow lesion strikes at the root of cell genesis, the myelocytes preponderat- ing when the involvement is less fundamental." Muir ^" explains these cases differently. The presence of the myelocytes is " the result of the disturbance of the marrow by the invasion of lymphocytes in a manner analogous to what has been noticed in some cases of tumours im- plicating the bone marrow. The question whether there is a real mixed-cell leucocy- thsemia—that is, one where the proliferative process involves the cells both of the granular and non-granular series . . . must be still con- sidered an open one. If such a type occurs it may be due to an involvement of the primitive cell from which both series spring, or to a con- comitant affection of the two series." He has not observed a case which requires such an ex- planation. (h) Leukmrnia with Change in the Type oj Cell Present in the Blood.—Wilkinson ^ has re- ported a good example of this. After the patient had been ill for nearly a year the blood was absolutely pathognomonic of advanced splenomedullary leukaemia, the most striking feature being the enormous number of large myelocytes. The lymphocytes were also numerous, there being every gradation between them and the myelocytes. Coincidently with an acute fatal exacerbation the blood took on the picture of typical large-celled lymphatic leuksemia. Browning" has also placed on re- cord a similar case. Ehrlich has suggested in explanation of the change that the " lympho- cytes " which appear in the blood in the later stages of the case are merely myelocytes, the granules of which have ceased to take on the stain, on account of inanition. The explana- tion, however, is not generally regarded as adequate. Cases of the reverse transformation —lymphocytic into myelocytic—have been re- ported—e.g. by Hirschlaff," but the authenti- city of most is questionable. Some are in all probability merely instances of terminal leuco- cytosis; in others the explanation given by Muir may be correct. In connection with the diagnosis of leukaemia, and as showing some of the further difficulties in adhering strictly to the older division into lymphatic and splenomedullary, the following points maj' be noted. Leukaemia may occur without enlargement of the liver, glands, or spleen ; the diagnosis always rests on the ex- amination of the blood alone. An apparently unique case of a leuksemic blood picture in a patient suffering from fracture of the ankle is reported by Simon ^' The fracture was com- pound, and amputation was required a month after the accident. At this time there was a leucocyte count of 50,000, with 16-2 per cent. of myelocytes, and many normoblasts and megaloblasts. The abnormal appearance soon disappeared, and the patient remained perma- nently well. One can only account for such a condition by the supposition of temporary hyperactivity of hsemopoiesis resulting from the injury plus septic infection. In whooping- cough the leucocytosis is often very great, especially when the disease is complicated by pneumonia or capillary bronchitis. Leucocyte counts of over 100,000 have been reported 1)y Crombie,'' and the blood has a superficial resemblance to that of leukaemia. No abnormal cells, however, occur; the phenomenon is of diagnostic importance, particularly in young infants, for in them the characteristic whoop is often absent, especially if a pulmonary compli- cation is present. 2. Leukan^mia.—The hybrid term " leuk- angemia" was coined by Leube in 1902 to describe the case of a child aged 10, who died of profound anaemia lasting only three weeks. The blood changes and post-mortem findings were a combination of those usually observed in leukaemia and pernicious anaemia. The con- dition is an ill-defined one, but similar cases have now been described by Hurter," Weber," Drysdale,^" and others. In Leube's patient the liver and spleen were enlarged; the red cells were reduced to 256,000, the whites numbered 10,600, the colour-index was 2'0. There were megaloblasts and normoblasts, and 13 per cent, of myelocytes. Post-mortem there was myeloid transformation of marrow and spleen, and no siderosis of the liver. Drysdale, whose case was very similar, has collected reports of 11 other cases, and points out that in all save one siderosis of the liver has been absent. This suggests a primary megaloblastic degeneration, not haemolysis, as the cause of the anaemia. The leucocyte count is not low in all cases ; the pathological appearances are not inconsistent with the diagnosis of leuksemia. Drysdale is of the opinion that the majority of the cases described as leukana;mia properly belong to the group of atypical myelocytic leukaemias, and certainly the balance of evidence seems to point in this direction rather than in favour of a com- bination of two such definite pathological entities as pernicious anaemia and leukaemia. 3. X-Ray Treatment of Leukaemia.—The earliest cases of leukasmia treated by the Ront- gen rays were reported in America, and the credit of priority in the introduction of a remedy which, though not curative, is yet more likely than any other known to us to prolong life and mitigate suffering, belongs to Pusey and Senn, who in 1903 and 1904 first brought the subject under the notice of the medical world. Since that time the treatment has been very ex- tensively tested, and its value can now be estimated with fair accuracy. Rontgen rays do not cure leukaemia perma- 16