78 CESAREAN SECTION burg position (although this is not always necessary), the empty organ is brought out of the abdomen, and haemorrhage from the incision in it checked by a long clamp or by swabs. First on one side, and then on the other, the round ligaments and the ovarian vessels in the upper part of the broad ligaments are ligatured. Munro Kerr (whose description is here in the main followed. Operative Midiviferi/, p. 419) applies a second ligature to the ovarian vessels for safety, and clamps the broad ligaments close to the uterus as well. The ligatures are, of coui'se, placed internal to the ovaries, if it has been decided to leave these glands. The })road ligaments are then divided l)etween the ligatures and the clamps, and the securing of the uterine vessels is proceeded with. These vessels can be felt well down in the wovuid, and should be tied near the cervix, so as to avoid wounding or including the ureters. A good plan is to divide transversely the peritoneum covering the anterior surface of the uterus, raise the lower part of it with the bladder and push it well forward, and divide also the peri- toneum on the posterior surface of the uterus; this procedure, by opening up the lower part of the broad ligaments, enables the operator to see the uterine vessels, which can then be ligatured with greater certainty and safety. Having tied these vessels and any others of sufficient size the operator can now cut across the uterus in its upper cervical portion. If the stump thus produced be very wide, a wedge- shaped portion (including the mucosa of the cervical canal) can be cut out of its centre; the anterior and posteiior parts of the stump are then stitched together (with catgut), the peri- toneum brought over the whole with a layer of sutures, and the opened-up parts of the broad ligaments closed in with a few stitches, so as to prevent the exposure of any raw surfaces. The stump is now allowed to fall back into the pelvis, the abdominal cavity is cleansed, and the abdominal wound is closed (preferably in layers, if there be sufficient time). Occasion- ally, as in cases of cancer of the cervix or of septic infection of the uterus, the whole organ is removed by panhysterectomy. Instead of amputating the uterus supravaginally after the uterine arteries are tied, the vaginal canal is opened into through the pouch of Douglas posteriorly, whilst in front the bladder is pushed forwards from oft' the cervix, and the anterior fornix vaginae opened into; then the tissues still attaching the uterus at the sides are clamped, and the whole organ is cut away ; any vessels that bleed are secured, and the anterior and posterior vaginal walls are stitched together, the pelvic peritoneum being brought over the line of sutures and fixed in position, so restoring the integrity of the peritoneal cavity. Both these forms of Caesarean section (supravaginal and panhysterectomy) are especially useful when there is a risk that septic infection of the uterus has already taken place, or when the organ is diseased in some other way, or is the seat of a fibroid or a malignant growth. In both it will be well to leave one or both ovaries, so that the patient may not lose the ovarian secretions. 3. The third method is known as the con- servative Ca;sareaii section as modified by Sanger, Murdoch Camei'on, and others. It is the operation which is commonly performed at the present day, and it is undoubtedly the operation of election in the cases which are seen early, eithei' dui'ing the last days of pregnancy or in the first stage of labour, and in which the chances of septic infection are few. In it the alxlomen is opened, and then the uterus, the child, and placenta are extracted; the uterus is closed by means of sutures, and the operation is brought to an end by the suturing of the abdominal incision. The technique is well known, has been fully descril^ed in the Enci/clopedia and Dictionari/ (v. pp. 299-305), and need not, therefore, be described here; but certain details have recently been made the subject of discussion and require to be referred to. There is, first, the question of the position and dii'cction of the uterine incision. The usual incision is in the anterior wall of the uterus and runs longi- tudinally, but several others have been recom- mended and practised. Thus a posterior longitudinal one has been advocated; so has a posterior longitudinal one low down, with an opening for drainage into the vaginal canal; so has a transverse incision low down anteriorly; so has a fundal incision running in a sagittal direction ; and, finally, so has the most discussed of them all, the transverse fundal incision of Fritsch. H. Fritsch made his suggestion fourteen years ago (Centralb. f. Gi/nliL, xxi. p. 561, 1897), and described a case in which he practised it; G. Braun (ibid., p. 1351) soon thereafter described another; and then for some five or six years (till 1902 or 1903) an animated discussion on the comparative merits of the longitudinal anterior and of the trans- verse fundal incision took place, as a glance through the annual volumes of the Centralblatt fiir Gijnakohgie abundantly shows. In 1902 it began to be possible to form a calm judgment upon the question at issue, some of the initial excitement having died down ; and Munro Kerr {Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1902, p. 1129) made a well-reasoned contribution to the suljject in an article, in which he referred to six cases in which he had practised the fundal incision. He took up in turn the five advantages which Fritsch had claimed for his incision—these were, less risk of subsequent hernia on account of the higher position of the abdominal wound, the fact that the abdominal cavity could be kept cleaner, less amount of bleeding, con-