147 EMBRYOTOMY OR EMBRYULCIA of the child is born and in which the shoulders and head are still at or above the brim, and it consists in carrying the trunk first forward and then backward, until the shoulder-girdle gives way and moulding occurs. Swpra-acromiotomy is another operative procedure, and has been described by Bonnaire. It consists in a localised embryotomy, by which the skin and muscles covering the projection of the shoulder are divided widely and deeply ; but it is not an exact operation, although it may conceivably be useful in cases in which the clavicles cannot be reached. It is quite evident that cleidotomy has advantages over all these competitive procedures. The division of the clavicles at once, and very materially, reduces the bis- acromial diameter, by allowing the shoulders to collapse; indeed the clavicles alone keep the shoulders apart. It has been found by experi- ment that there is a diminution of the bis- acromial diameter by 2 and 3 cm. in unilateral and bilateral cleidotomy respectively. This narrowing of the shoulders either permits them to enter the pehdc cavity, or gives room for the passage of a blunt hook upwards, and for the fixing of it in the axilla to make traction. Division of the clavicles is the one thing neces- sary, and cleidotomy alone of all the proposed plans does this and no more. It is simpler, more rapid, much more elegant, and it is quite as effective as any of the other operative pro- cedures ; it is, further, founded upon the correct scientific principle of attacking the parts which are concerned in maintaining the breadth of the shoulders. The cause of delay in labour in these cases is the width of the shoulders in the bisacromial diameter; by cleidotomy this dia- meter is quickly diminished, and M'ith practi- cally no risk to the mother. Spinal Tapping {Paracentesis).—Like cleido- tomy, spinal pai'acentesis is a scientific and elegant method of overcoming a difiiculty in labour which is often attacked by force, ill- regulated, misapplied, and excessive. What cleidotomy does for the delivery of the shoulders after craniotomy or basilysis, spinal para- centesis maj' do for the extraction of the after- coming hydrocephalic head. History.—So long ago as 1848 the procedure of tapping the spine for the delivery of the hydro- cephalic foetus was proposed by Vanhuevel {Presse me'd. beige, i. pp. 279, 343, 1848-9), and it was actually carried out by Tarnier in 1868 {Traite des Accouchements, iv. p. 32, 1901), although Hubert (Cours d'accouchements, ii. pp. 254, 268, 1878) claims for Lacoux the honour of establishing it as a useful obstetric operation. Charles used the method successfully {Journ. d'accouch. (Liege), ii. p. 41, 1881), as did Ira G. Stone in 1897 (Med. News (New York), Ixx. p. 302, 1897), and Pozzoli {Lucina (Bologna), iv. p. 167, 1899), in 1899. Qui {Arch, de tocoL, xviii. p. 617, 1891) failed to carry out the manoeuvre because of fracture and displacement of the cervical spine, which prevented the passage of the sound through the spinal canal into the cranium. In Great Britain Ballantyne seems to have been the first to report a suc- cessful case {Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1904, p. 1567), and to put a second one on record soon afterwards {Trans. Edin. Ohstet. Soc, xxxi p. 66, 1905-6); but Dougall {Glas. Med. Journ., xvi. p. 25, 1881) seems to have thought of reaching the cranium through the spinal canal in a case of hydrocephalus with spina bifida, using the one complication (the bifid spine) to obviate the other (the hydrocephalus), although he did not put his proposal into efi'ect. Indications and 'Technique.—The indications for tapping the f fetal cranium by way of the spinal canal are hydrocephalus (when the breech of the child has presented and been born, the lar'ge head remaining above the brim of the mother's pelvis) and any other condition {e.g. encephalo- cele, meningocele, etc.) in which the head is distended with fluid which can be r'eached by the spinal canal and in which the body of the child is already born. Of course there is another way of dealing with hydrocephalus or encephalocele when the head itself presents. Cases of delay in the birth of the breech due to the presence of a large sacral meningocele might possibly also be treated by spinal para- centesis ; under these circumstances the foetal head would be expelled, and the catheter would be introduced and passed along the spine to- wards the sacrum instead of in the direction of the head. The technique, as described by Ballantj-ne, may be given. In the first case, the patient was sent into the Edinburgh Royal Maternity Hospital with her baby born as far as the shoulders. It had been a transverse presentation, and the doctor in attendance had performed version and brought down the feet, but neither his exertions nor those of another medical man who came to his aid sufficed to complete the delivery. When Ballantyne saw the patient she was in a very collapsed state (pulse 140, thready, etc.), there were no pains, and the uterus was as large as it is at the beginning of labour, notwithstanding the fact that the feet and lower part of the trunk were outside the vulva; he made the provisional diagnosis of hydrocephalus or of some other cephalic malformation. With an ordinary scalpel he made a transverse incision over the interspace between the 6th and 7th dorsal vertebrae in the interscapular region ; no fluid appeared; so he next took a long silver cath- eter with several openings in its distal end, and insinuated it into the spinal canal, bending the back of the infant at the time so as to make the spinal curves and those of the catheter coin- cide ; then, turning the point of the catheter forwards as it lay in the cranium, he had the satisfaction of seeing clear fluid running out of