206 INFANT FEEDING of the steriliser. In all probability one of the chief reasons why babies tolerate sterilised undiluted milk so well is that the prolonged heating precipitates the lime salts, and diminishes the amount of curd formed. The Use of Sodium Citrate.—In 189-3 A. E. Wright pointed out that the addition of sodium citrate to milk prevented curd formation, and in 1904 Poynton drew attention to the applica- tion of this property to infant feeding. Since his paper appeared citrated milk has been much used, and is generally recognised as of the greatest value in many cases. Sodium citrate often relieves the digestive disorder—colic, flatulence, and the passage of green mucous stools containing "curd"—■ which ordinary diluted milk causes ; it also enables a baby to take a stronger milk mixture than would other- wise be possible. In vitro 1 gr. of sodium titrate to 1 oz. of milk greatly diminishes, and 2 grs. abolishes, curding on the addition of rennin and 5 drops 1 per cent. HCl. The action is believed to be due to the precipitation of the soluble calcium salts of the plasma, or to their conversion into a non-ionisable form. Sodium citrated should be prescribed in a solution (grs. viii.-grs. xvi. ad ^i.), to each 4 ozs. of which a drop of chloroform is added to prevent the growth of moulds. A teaspoonful is added to each ounce of milk given. In bad cases 2 grs., in mild ones ^ a grain, may be added; the amount of citrate should be gradually diminished as the patient improves. Buttermilk.—Buttermilk has been used in Holland as a food for infants since the eighteenth oentury, and latterly its use has extended to other countries. It is most valuable in many forms of chronic gastro-intestinal disorder, particularly when there is excess of fat, or *' curd " in the stools. (The whitish masses of so-called " curd" which are often seen in the motions of infants suffering from diarrhoea are in reality soaps. They are not evidence of difficulty in digesting casein, but rather prove that the food as a whole, particularly the fat, is disagreeing.) Contrary to what might be anticipated, there is seldom any difficulty in persuading infants to drink buttermilk. Only buttermilk which is not more than twenty- four hours old should be used, and the difficulty of obtaining a regular daily supply is one of the few drawbacks to its employment. Buttermilk has the following average com- position :— Proteid, 2"6 per cent. ; fat, -6 per cent. ; sugar, 3 per cent. It contains about '7 per cent, of lactic acid, and swarms with lactic acid bacteria. Butter- milk requires preparation before being used as a food for an infant. One ounce of cane-sugar is dissolved in thirty ounces of buttermilk; four or five ounces of the sweetened milk are stirred into a cream with half an ounce of flour. and the rest of the milk is added. The whole is then boiled, and during the time it is on the fire it must be constantly stirred to prevent the formation of a gritty curd. The last point is absolutely essential, or the mixture will be spoiled. It is then given in the usual quanti- ties and at the usual intervals. Buttermilk differs from fresh milk in these respects:—(1) Its proteid and sugar are low, and it is almost devoid of fat. (2) Its casein exists in the form of casein lactate, on which rennin has no action. (-3) It is stronglj'^ acid. (4) It contains many lactic acid bacteria. An explanation of its usefulness has been sought in each of these peculiarities. It is not well borne when given raw, and it seems to act as well when it is alkalinised as when it is acid, hence the two last-named peculiarities do not come into question. It prol3ably owes its value to the absence of coagulable casein and to its poverty in fat. Czerny and Keller regard it (when prepared for use as above) simplj^ as a cereal food, and think its proper sphere of use- fulness is in cases of malnutrition from cow's milk {Milchndhrschaden). Buttermilk may l^e tried with fair prospect of success in any form of subacute or chronic gastro-intestinal disorder, or in the conval- escence from acute diarrhoea. As the stools improve, in the course of a few weeks, ordinary milk should be substituted first, little )>y little. It is necessary to make the change gradually. Infantile Atrophy.—To the account of the sjmiptoms of infantile atrophy from the pen of the late Dr. Henry Ashby in the Encydop. and Diet, of Med.,Yo\. I., p. 324, there is nothing to add, and his discussion of the general causa- tion of the disease requires little amplification. The pathology of atrophy was unsettled when he wrote his paper; it is still far from being definite. Nevertheless some important work has been done on the subject by Czerny, Keller, and others, chiefly of the Breslau school. It is admitted that the anatomical changes descril^ed by Baginsky (atrophy of the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane) do not adequately explain the disease, and that bacteriology has also failed to demonstrate any clear connexion l)etween bacterial infection of milk and atrophy. Czerny and Keller attach considerable importance to cow's milk in the production of marasmus. The\' group disturb- ances of nutrition under three main heads :— Disturbances from alimentation, disturbances from infection, and disturbances from consti- tutional defect. Looking at the subject from this point of view, atrophy is merely the ultimate result of one of these causes; we dis- card such description of clinical phenomena as "follicular enteritis," "acute diarrhoea," " gastro-enteritis," " cholera infantum," etc., because a patient may show signs of one of