•288 AND HEMATOMA OF PELVIS, HJ^MATOCELE <iymc. et d'obstet., 2 S. v. p. 222, 1908) the haemorrhage seems to have been caused by the rupture of follicular cysts in the ovary, but the writer gives no details regarding the men- strual history of the patient, and it can hardly be affirmed that ovarian pregnancy was ex- cluded. But, apart from tubal and ovaiian conditions, there is the possibility of hajmor- rhage into the pelvic peritoneum or cellular tissue from other causes; in Perrier's observa- tion {These de Lyoii, 1904), for instance, there were uterine fibromyomata, and haemorrhage was traced to subserous uteiine varicose veins ■of the uterus, and in Walter's case (Journ. Obstet. and Gytuvc. Brit. Emp., xiii. p. 145, 1908), there was bleeding into both broad liga- ments after the performance of a supra-vaginal hysterectomy. But these are exceptional ■occurrences. So commonly is hajmatocele the result of ectopic gestation that unless there is very strong evidence to the contrary it should, when diagnosed, be regarded as so originating, and it should be treated in the same way as an extra-uterine pregnancy, viz. by opening the abdomen, securing the bleeding poiiits, and clearing out the blood and clot. Pemphig^us and Dermatitis Herpetiformis.—Whilst many still hold that pemphigus and dermatitis herpetiformis are diseases of nervous origin, there has been a good deal of evidence recently brought forward that they are due to toxagmias, which are probably of intestinal origin. Johnstone and Engmann are .strong upholders of this opinion. In support of this view is the fact, which is undoubted, that nearly all of such cases show a marked indicanuria. Treatment based on an attempt to wash out any toxic substance from the system has given favourable results. John- stone I'ecommends giving large quantities of water to drink, at least three quarts daily in addition to the liquid vvhich is taken at meals. He also gives diuretics, and helps elimination through the skin by hot-air baths and pilo- carpine, gr. xViH) niouth four times daily. Iron should also be given if there is any anaemia. REFERENCES.—Engmann, Journ. Cutan. Diseases, May 1906.—Johnstone, Brit. Med. Journ., 6th Oct. 1906. Peptobromeigon.—A substitute for the alkaline bromides, being a combination of bromine with protein ; it difi'ers from bromeigon itself in being soluble. Peptoiodeig^On.—An iodofoim substi- tute, an albumin compound of iodine ; it diifers from iodeigon itself in being soluble in water, .and contains 15 per cent, iodine. See Fortescue- Brickdale, Newer Remedies, p. 12, 1910. Perhydroi.—A proprietary preparation, being Merck's " Chemically Pure and Acid-Free Hydrogen Peroxide"; it is described as a colourless limpid liquid, and, being a highly concentrated preparation, it is said to produce therapeutic effects which cannot be obtained from ordinary solutions of hydrogen peroxide ; 1 part of perhydroi to 9 parts of distilled water gives a 3 per cent, solution; it acts as a deodorant and as a styptic, and produces a mechanical cleansing effect on the tissues (catalytic action followed by effervescence taking- place on contact); and it is recommended in the various morbid states (surgical, gynecological, dermatological, etc.), in which hydrogen per- oxide itself does good. There is also a perhydroi mouth-wash and a perhydroi tooth powder. Periappendicitis Deciduaiis.— See Ectopic Pregnancy (Tubal, PatJwlogy). Perid ivertiCU 1 itis.—Inflammation of the tissues surrounding a diverticulum {e.g. of the intestinal canal); it is one of the causes of sigmoiditis and meso-sigmoiditis when the diverticulum is situated in the sigmoid flexure. Perineosynthesis. — A somewhat grandiloquent term for perineal repair. Pe r pet U al e.—A proprietary preparation, being an aerated beverage containing lactic acid. See Lancet, ii. for 1910, p. 467. Perseveration. —This term, entered as obsolete in the New English Dictionary, has been re-introduced to express a particular form of perseverance experimentally determined, viz. the persistence of mental impressions, or the rapidity with which one impression could follow another as tested by two-coloured rotating discs (Wiersma's) ; perseveration, as thus understood, indicated the quality rather than the amount of the intelligence. See J. G. Gray, Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1910, jd. 791. "Pessary" Cells. — Erythrocytes which have lost so much of their haemoglobin that only their periphery is visible, and so they come to look like ring pessaries. Petrosulphol.—An artificial ichthyol produced from crude petroleum, obtained in the Tyrol, and containing 16 27 per cent, of sulphur. See Fortescue - Brickdale, Neiver Remedies, p. 27, 1910. Pfannenstiel Incision.—-See CESAREAN Section {Sectio Cmsarea Abdo- minalis Inferior).