SKIN DISEASES 216 lONISATION IN each drug. Alkalies, alkaloids, and metals are used with the positive pole, whilst acids, chlorine, bromine, and iodine come off at the negative pole. Ringworm.—It has been attempted to intro- duce copper and salicylate of soda ions for the cure of ringworm of the scalp, but as individual hairs are apt to escape, the results so far have not been encouraging. Warts.—Warts may be cured by the application of magnesium ions. REFERENCES.—Lewis Jones, Roy. Soe. Med., March 1908 ; Brit. Med. Journ., 16tli Feb. IQOti.— Leduc, Arch, d'electricite med., p. 734, 1903.—Arthue, Med. Electrology and Radiology. Aug. 1906.—Taylor, Med. Electroloyy and Radiology, Au^'. 1906. Iontophoresis, Zinc—The carrying of minute particles of the zinc electrode into the tissue by means of the galvanic current; it was introduced in the treatment of external eye disease by Wirz in 1908, e.g. in corneal ulcer. See Lancet, ii. for 1910, p. 484. ipsoia.tera.1.—A term meaning on the self-same side, e.g. when optic neuritis is on the same side of the body as the brain lesion causing it; it is thus used by Sir Victor Horsley in the form of the noun {ijjsolaterality). See Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1909, p. 877. iSOlysinS.—Lysins active in the same species, cf. Heterolysins. iSOma,ltOSe> — A carbohydrate, which has, in very rare cases, been discovered in the urine. issaeff Resistance Period.—A phenomenon in non-specific immunity. Issaeff found that a peritoneal leucocytosis could be induced by injecting into the abdomen non- toxic things such as saline solutions, serums, etc.; that the resulting leucocytosis was at its height twenty-four hours later; that if the animal were then given what would otherwise have been lethal doses of various pathogenic spirilla no ill results followed; ancl that the leucocytosis lasted for some days. A practical application of the phenomenon has been the use by surgeons of intraperitoneal inoculations of nucleins, saline solutions, etc., the day before laparotomies, in order to lessen the dangers and damage of subsequent infection. See Adami, Pathology, i. p. 501, 1910. Jaundice.—Congenital Family Cho- L^MiA; Chronic Acholuric Jaundice.— Attention may be called to a rare form of chronic jaundice, which has been the subject of several recent papers. Its leading character- istics are its chronicity, its tendency to affect several generations or members of a family, the absence of bile pigment from the urine (whence the name " acholuric jaundice"), and the association with it of blood changes sug- gestive of pernicious ansemia, and chronic splenic enlargement. Hawkins and Dudgeon state that—"It is certain (1) that a child may be born jaundiced or may become jaundiced soon after birth ; (2) that the jaundice may persist with little or no variation for many years, at any rate till middle life; (3) that the spleen in these cases is always enlarged ; (4) that thei'e is consider- able antemia, with a low colour-index, poiki- locytosis, and the presence of nucleated red cells ] (5) that nevertheless the patient has good or fair health, can stand intercurrent diseases; and, if a woman, is able to bear children; (6) that bile pigment is present in the stools as in health, that it is not present in the urine, but that any darkening of the urine which may be present is due to urobilin ; (7) that nevertheless bile pigment is present in the serum; (8) that this condition tends to appear in more than one member of a family, and in successive generations." The sexes seem to be equally affected; in some cases at least the jaundice is congenital. The disease does not necessarily^ shorten life. The jaundice attains about the same degree as ordinary catarrhal jaundice, and is unattended by gastric disturbance, itching of the skin, or clubbing of the fingers. The disease is not due to syphilis or alcoholism. The enlargement of the spleen is comparatively moderate; its lower end may reach the level of the umbilicus, but this is the outside limit. Enlargement of the liver is less marked, and there is no evi- dence of cirrhosis. All observers have found changes in the blood, and as these are of importance in relation to the nature of the disease, Hawkins and Dudgeon's report on their four cases may be quoted in full: " Red cells vary from 2,590,000 to 3,676,000, the average being 3,090,000, rouleaux formation is poor or absent, microcytes are numerous, polychromatophilia is marked, poikilocytosis is well marked; granular degeneration was well marked in one case. In these four cases respectively, 1 megaloblast, 7 normoblasts and 27 megaloblasts, 15 normoblasts and 10 megalo- blasts ; 5 normoblasts and 1 megaloblast were seen in counting 500 leucocytes. In two cases 'ghosts' were very numerous. The haemo- globin varies from 35 to 70 per cent., the average being 44 per cent.; the colour-index varies from 58 to -9, the average being -69. Fibrin formation was absent in one case, slight in another ; blood platelets were very numerous in one case, scanty in another. The leucocytes vary from 3800 to 6120, the average being 4880, with no real alteration in relative pro- portions, though there was slight excess of polynuclear neutrophiles in one case (adult)