PUEEPERIUM, MANAGEMENT OF 317 tbe pelvic musculature might suffer. At first Ktistner's new method of treatment, breaking, as it did, through a practice so firmly estab- lished as rest in bed during the puerperium, met with little support; indeed, in many parts of the world it was not even discussed. Of late years, however, it has found advocates in various places, and has consequently excited animated controversy. Reference may be made to the following articles which have recently appeared :—Edmonds (Mass. Med. Journ., xxvi. p. 351, 1906) ; Pierra {Rev. prat, de gynec, d'obstct. et de pediat., ii. p. 340, 1907) ; Wallich {Rev. prat, d'obstct. et de poidiat., XX. p. 129, 1907) ; Bouchacourt (Presse med, xv. pp. 307, 410, 1907); Heil {Arch. f. Gynaek., Ixxxi. p. 95, 1907) ; E. Martin {Monatssch. f. Gehurtsh. u. Gynak., xxvii. p. 248, 1908) ; Von Winckel {Deutsche med. Wochensch., xxxiv. p. 49, 1908) ; Brisset {Union med. du Canada, xxxvii. p. 200, 1908); Rosenfeld {Gynaek. Rundschau, ii. p. 401, 1908) ; von Alvensleben {Zentralb. f. Gyndk., xxxii. p. 1184, 1908) ; Hinchey {Interstate Med. Journ. (St. Louis), xvi. p. 26, 1909); Gellhorn {ibid., p. 33, 1909); K. Mayer {Miinch. med. Wochensch., Ivi. p. 273, 1909) ; Simon {ibid., p. 47, 1909); Fromme {Zentralb. f. Gyndk., xxxiii. p. 15, 1909) ; Hofmeier {ibid., p. 21, 1909) ; E. Opitz {Med. Klin., v. pp. 5, 48, 1909) ; Fehling {Strassb. med. Ztg., vi. p. 14, 1909) ; and Haultain {Brit. Med. Journ., ii. for 1909, p, 307). So far nearly all the records have been favour- able, and seem to show that after normal labours there is no need for prolonged rest in the hori- zontal posture. Karl Mayer allowed his patients to rise when they liked, with the result that 4 rose on the third day, 40 on the fourth, and 100 on the fifth day ; the morbidity was lower by 10 per cent, than among those who followed the old - established rule. Von Alvensleben found that out of one hundred cases 3 rose on the first day, 61 on the second, 19 on the third, and 18 on the fourth; the morbidity was less amongst them than that of the general clinique (10 per cent, in the one case, 17 per cent, in the other). Dealing with 235 parturients, Opitz found that 56 got up on the first day, 65 on the second, 27 on the third, 52 from the fourth to the sixth day, 21 on the seventh and eighth days, and 14 later; his results showed that retroflexion of the uterus was not made more likely by the early rising, that involution was satisfactory, and that convalescence was not interrupted. Opitz, however, admitted that it was difficult to prevent the newly-delivered woman leaving the hospital too soon, and re- ferred to the fact that in private practice there might be danger owing to the puerperal patient being under less constant observation. Kronig {Deutsche med. Wochensch., xxxiii. p. 1528, 1907) does not seem to have been influenced by this fear, for 70 per cent, of his private patients (250 in luimber) got up during the first day ; he also still further shortened the resting period for patients delivered under the influence of scopolamine and morphine injections, allowing a certain number to get up from eight to ten hours fost partum. His published results have been A^ery good, and he did not meet with any cases of thrombosis or embolism; he was of opinion that his patients were better able to nurse their babies, that uterine involution went on quite as well, that the lochia came away more readily, that there was less risk of accumulation of fa;ces in the rectum, that the appetite was better, and that, speaking gen- erally, the bodily system was better able to resist infection. Rosenfeld {loc. cit.) also was able to report good results, but he restricted his patients to rising for one hour on the third or fourth day ; the time was gradually increased till they left the hospital on the eighth or tenth day. Somewhat similar was Simon's plan {loc. cit.) ; he kept his patients in bed for thi ee days, allowed them to get up to pass water, if there was any difficulty with micturition ; they got up for an hour on the fourth day, arrd for two hours orr the fifth, if there was no fever; he insisted on the wearing of a binder, and insti- tuted gymnastic exercises to strengtherr the abdominal muscles (bending and rotating the trunk, etc.); and he believed that his patients made better recoveries. In America Hinchey {loc. cit.) wrote in favour of early rising irr the puerperium, whilst Gellhorn was of an opposite opiniorr {loc. cit ). The latter cited the obser va- tions of Miillerheim on more than a thousand women in Berlin, many of M^hom, although they were all discharged from the hospital as being in perfect condition, required weeks of rest and treatment for disturbances coming on after their return home. He also referred to the frequency of embolism and prolapsus uteri among Javanese women (as noted by Wagener and himself), and pointed out that, by an old law, these women were compelled to get up immediately after confinement and walk about, but not to attend to their domestic duties. A still mor'e serious criticism of the early-rising regime is contained in the occurrence of a death from thrombosis and embolism in the case of a patient who was allowed to get up for one hour on the second day of the puerperium (Fromme, loc. cit.). It has been maintained by some that early getting up, instead of predisposing to thrombosis and embolism, will actually teird to prevent these accidents, but Fromme's observation must be regarded as a serious blow to such an argument. Hinchey {loc. cit.) is of opinion that "inasmuch as no cases of death from haemorrhage or embolism have occurred on account of early rising, and as there are even no good theoretical reasons for fearing such an accident, the subject may be dismissed until we have cause for