Frozen Sections of a Child. 43 assist to give it a firm support for contraction by steadying the tho- rax. Carried further, their action is to flex the body forward, and, it may be, when one side acts alone, to twist it. The posterior border of the external oblique does not pass off into any fascia, but is a distinct line running from the last rib to the crest of the ilium, forming the front of a triangle, the base of which is a small portion of the crest, the posterior border being formed by the front edge of the latissimus dorsi. This is the triangle of Petit. The latissimus may reach the external oblique, or even overlap it, as, I think, is the case on the left side of Plate X. In either case, of course the triangle does not exist; it is usually to be found in adults, and not in infants. Lesshaft1 found it eighty-four times in one hun- dred and eight bodies of adults, and only nine times in thirty-five bodies of new-born children and foetuses. The floor of this triangle is formed by the posterior fibres of the internal oblique. It is a weak point in the abdominal wall. The muscular belly of the great erector spinae is seen in this plate, but more developed in the following. It is a very powerful muscle, and with the gluteus maximus is the most important in maintaining the erect position. The nomenclature of English anatomists is very clumsy—that of Henle very simple and explanatory instead of confusing. In English we have it divided into seven pieces. The innermost is the spinalis dorsi, which runs be- tween the spines of the upper lumbar and lower dorsal vertebrae and those of the upper dorsal region. Then comes the longissimus dorsi, prolonged by the transversalis cervicis to the neck, and that, in turn, by the trachelo-mastoid to the head. Outside of this column lies the ilio-costalis, its accessory muscle, and finally the cervicalis ascendens, ending at the transverse processes of the neck. Henle very properly omits the spinalis dorsi, treating it as a separate muscle. There then remains the great muscular mass derived from the ilium, the lumbar fascia, and sacrum, which divides into two main columns, com- posed—the inner of the longissimus dorsi, cervicis, and capitis; the outer of the ilio-costalis lumborum, dorsi, and cervicis, respectively. 1 Die Lumbalgegend in anatomisch-chirurgischer Hinsicht. Archiv fur Anatomie, Phy- siologic und wissenschaftliche Medicin. (Reichert and Du Bois Reymond.) 1870.