17 Frozen Sections of a Child. rectly or obliquely to the left. Various other irregular muscular bun- dles connect the gullet with the pleurae and pericardium. The aorta is in close connection with the oesophagus for a great part of its course. This we shall return to. Plate V. shows the relations to the left auricle and right pulmonary vein to the oesophagus. The views of the intra-thoracic nerves in Plate III. are very in- structive. The phrenics are seen far forward, especially the left one, which lies between the opposed surfaces of the pericardium and pleura. The right, which has not yet reached a corresponding posi- tion, lies behind the vena cava. The right pneumogastric has joined the oesophagus ; the left one, at the left of the arch of the aorta, gives off the recurrent laryngeal, which emerges between the aorta and trachea. The phrenics pass in front of the roots of the lungs ; the pneumogastrics behind them, as is clearly shown in Plate IV. The pericardium is seen covering the right anterior surface of the ascend- ing aorta. The course of that vessel is left for the next chapter. The left scapula is cut just under the glenoid cavity, the right one lower still. In both cases the joint is opened where the cap- sule hangs down in a fold, which is obliterated when the arm is raised. A small bursa is found on each side between the humerus and the pectoralis minor. The subscapularis and the infra-spinatus, separated by the body of the scapula, are easily known. The teres minor lies against the latter muscle. On the right, the long head of the triceps, represented too much like fibrous tissue, runs along the anterior border of the scapula. On the left it becomes muscular at once, and is seen outside of the teres minor. The axilla is shown as a small space, containing the large vessels and nerves, surrounded by areolar and fatty tissue. It is bounded on the inside by the chest-wall, in front by the lesser pectoral, on the out- side by the coraco-brachialis, and behind by the subscapularis. Its lower wall is formed by the skin, which is held close up by the axillary fascia. The axilla ends above by the convergence of its walls (Plate II.). The trapezius is slightly shaded in this plate. Below are the rhomboids, running to the posterior border of the scapula. It is im- portant to know that there is a small space under the scapula, usually containing a little fat, bounded by the chest-wall, the rhomboid, and the serratus. Pus occasionally is found in it, and as the serratus does not allow the abscess to point in the axilla, it may attain a large size and give much pain before it is recognized, 3