20 Frozen Sections of a Child. greater part of the latter are seen in Plate V. The third is at a higher level. I have followed Sibson’s1 nomenclature, but it seems as if it would be quite as well to say that there is a superior one on the left, and two inferior on the right. One of the sinuses of Val- salva corresponds with each flap. The superior sinus is the largest; it gives off the left coronary artery. The right artery springs from the anterior sinus. The aorta runs forward, upward, and to the right. In Plate IV. the pulmonary artery is on its left, and the superior cava almost behind it. At this plane it changes its direction and runs more distinctly forward and to the left. In Plate III. it is behind the sternum at the height of the first intercostal space. It is seen in this section arching over the root of the left lung, and we may infer that the highest point of the arch is opposite the top of the third dorsal vertebra and below the top of the sternum. Inasmuch as these two points are in no constant relation to each other, we must consider what is the proper position of the top of the arch with regard to each. Sibson2 found the top of the arch in one instance one and one-half inch below the top of the manubrium, and in another one-half inch above it. In five cases he found it above, and in six on a level with the top of the sternum, while in seven it was quite an inch below it. “ In two-thirds of the instances (thirty in forty-eight), however, the top of the aorta occupied an intermediate place behind the upper half of the manubrium, its average position being half an inch below the top of the bone.” The position of the highest point of the arch on a level with the upper part of the third dorsal vertebra is rather higher than is normal in the adult,3 although good text-books place it as high as the second. The rapid decrease in size of the arch of the aorta is partly real and partly apparent. It becomes smaller after giving off the great arterial branches, and, moreover, the section strikes it below its greatest diameter. The descending aorta proper begins between Plates III. and IV., say between the fourth and fifth dorsals. The close relation of the aorta to the oesophagus from this point to the diaphragm should be carefully noticed. The aorta, which in Plate IV. is quite on the side of the spinal column, gradually passes 1 The Position and Form of the Heart and Great Vessels. Reynolds’ System of Med- icine. Vol. IV. ■ Loc. cit. 3 Mr. J. Wood : The Topographical Relations of the Arch of the Aorta and the Posterior Mediastinum to the Spinal Column. Journal of Anatomy and Physiology. Vol. III.