29 Frozen Sections of a Child. rib at its most dependent part, 3.2 ctm. below the nipple, and at least 1 ctm. inside of it. The lower end of the auriculo-ventricular groove is at the right of the base of the ensiform cartilage, opposite the car- tilage of the sixth rib as it rises to join the sternum, and about 1 ctm. to the right of the median line. The lower border of the heart would be represented by a slightly curved line connecting these points. The auriculo-ventricular groove runs upward to the middle of the line be- tween the cartilages of the third ribs. The right auricular appendage is seen rather above that level in Plate IV., and in the same plate the left auricle, which constitutes, perhaps, the highest point of the heart, is opposite the lowest part of the second intercostal space at the side of the sternum. The position of the heart is, therefore, practically normal, even for the adult. The apex1 is rather lower than usual in relation to the ribs, but possibly this would have been corrected as the lower part of the sternum became more developed. The greatest breadth of the heart is seen in Plate VI., and more of the heart lies in contact with the chest than at the level of any other plate. The pericardium rests upon the central tendon of the diaphragm, but it extends over on to the muscular part both to the right and the left. The attachment of the front wall of the pericardium to the dia- phragm is particularly firm. This plate shows a change in the shape of the posterior medias- tinum, which is caused by the aorta having made its way to the front of the column, crowding the oesophagus and the vena azygos to the right. 1 “ The lower edge of the apex was on a level with the lower edge of the left fifth carti- lage in one-seventh of the instances observed (six in sixty-nine) ; it was below that edge in two-fifths of them (twenty-six in sixty-nine) ; and it was above that edge in almost one-half of them (thirty-four in sixty-nine). In five instances the lower boundary of the apex was situated one inch above the lower edge of the fifth cartilage, and in four it was fully one inch below that edge.”—Sibson : loc. cit.