16 Frozen Sections of a Child. sections. It may rise as high as the thyroid body before returning to its end at the junction of the left jugular and subclavian veins, or it may rise hardly at all above that point. The innominate veins are not seen, as they run in the thickness of the slice above this plate, and unite to form the vena cava superior opposite the lower half of the cartilage of the first rib, at the right border of the sternum behind the thymus. As the cava descends, it inclines backward, so that in Plate IV. it is behind the aorta, but, owing to the spiral course of the latter, it is beside it again at its termination just above the level of Plate V. The course of the oesophagus deserves a special description. Just below its origin it begins to incline to the left, as is shown in Plate I. The deviation is more marked in Plate II., but in the next, oppo- site the third and fourth dorsal vertebrae, it is driven back toward the middle by the arch of the aorta. It continues for some distance near the median line. Opposite the ninth dorsal it is well to the right, but it then begins to sweep forward and to the left. It ends opposite the lower part of the tenth dorsal. In another child, of about the same age, examined by means of similar sections, the gullet at the top of the first dorsal was completely on the left of the trachea, which rested against the prevertebral fascia. It continued on the left, passing behind the left bronchus, till it regained the middle line opposite the seventh dorsal. It then ran to the left again, in front of the descending aorta, and ended at about the upper border of the eleventh dorsal. In this case there was an effusion in the right pleural cavity. Braune states that the greatest deviation to the left is in the region of the second and third dorsals ; Tillaux, that the general direction is to the left, but that it is slightly deflected to the right, opposite the third dorsal, by the arch of the aorta. An ex- amination of sections by Pirogoff, Braune, Rtidinger, and Henke, shows that there is great individual variation. Whether pleuritic ef- fusions can displace the gullet, is important, but unsettled. One point seems reasonably certain, that at the bifurcation of the trachea it usually passes behind the left bronchus, and, as far as I know, never behind the right one, excepting when all the viscera are transposed. Muscular fibres frequently pass from the left bronchus to the oesopha- gus, and in nine cases in which Gruber 1 found a muscle arising from the right bronchus, in every one its fibres ran from the bronchus di- Reichert und Du Bois Reymond’s Archiv., 1869.