Fro sen Sections of a Child. 47 in the angle between the psoas and iliacus. In the next plate it has reached the abdominal walls, and a little later begins to form the sigmoid flexure, which we will leave for the present. Two points of comparison with the adult arrangement must be mentioned. The right colon of the adult passes in front of the right kidney, as is the case with its rudiment here.1 The left colon on the other hand, lies on the outer side of the left kidney. The transverse colon in the adult not uncommonly hangs down in front as low as the umbilicus. Both the ascending and descending colon are but partly covered by peritoneum at the level of Plate X. The descending one, however, is more covered in the next plate, and has a true mesentery in the iliac fossa. The relation of the peritoneum to the colon, especially on the left, is of much surgical importance. The extent to which the gut is covered varies extremely, and at all ages. Lesshaft found that on the average the left colon had a mesentery, usually a very short one, once in six subjects. The lumbar fascia deserves notice. The superficial layer is a very strong diamond-shaped aponeurosis, extending high up in the dorsal region, down toward the coccyx, and laterally on to the ilia. The latissimus dorsi arises from it above, as does also the serratus inferior, and the gluteus maximus springs from it below. The erec- tor spinae which it bridges over has a part of its origin from the deep surface of this fascia. In short, the muscles that straighten the body, by drawing both the upper and under halves backward, spring from it. This arrangement shows the necessity of the thickness of the anterior portion of the capsule of the hip-joint. At the outer margin of the erector spinae the fascia above described is joined by the mid- dle layer of the lumbar fascia, which runs to the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae. This is continuous with the transversalis muscle, and some fibres of the internal oblique arise from its posterior surface. In front of this fascia lies the quadratus lumborum, which extends beyond the outer edge of the erector. Covering the anterior surface of the quadratus is the inner layer of the lumbar fascia, ex- tending from the roots of the transverse processes outward to join also the transversalis muscle. Below it is attached to the crest of the ilium, and it ends above as the ligamenta arcuata. The superfi- cial layer of the lumbar fascia, which is very dense is shown in Plate XL, turning round the outer borders of the erectores. Lesshaft, loc. cit. This rule does not seem to be quite without exceptions.