Frozen Sections of a Child. 36 face is not explained. His1 has the merit of showing that this descrip- tion applies to the liver removed from the body, drained of its blood, and distorted by its own weight. When in situ the liver has not a. posterior border, but a posterior surface. The vena cava makes a deep groove in the rear, as is seen in Plates VII. and VIII. ; indeed, in the former it is almost surrounded by the liver. The lobe of Spigelius lies to the left of it, and is, at least, as much on the hind as on the lower surface of the liver. The transverse fissure, which forms its an- terior boundary, cuts through to the level of Plate VIII,, and shows the outline of this lobe very clearly. The oesophagus often makes a slight groove in the liver. To the left of this the posterior surface passes into the posterior border. The impression from the right kid- ney is also in part on the posterior surface, as is shown in Plate IX. The tissue of the liver is very yielding; it resembles a sponge filled with blood, and very probably can undergo slight temporary changes of form by the pressure of neighboring parts. That long-continued pressure will make permanent changes is well known. Hence it is very likely that the liver, which in early foetal life filled a great part of the abdomen, is reduced to its proper shape and size by the pressure of the growing organs around it. The right coronary ligament is opposite the tenth rib. To understand its formation, remember that a part of the back of the liver has no peritoneal covering. The serous membrane of the top of the liver is reflected upward and forward under the diaphragm ; that of the lower surface of the right lobe down- ward over the posterior wall. These two folds approach one another at the right side of the liver, and at last meet back to back, form- ing the triangular ligament. The falciform ligament is seen in front, running very obliquely to reach the umbilical fissure which appears in Plate IX. The aorta is about passing through the diaphragm at this level. Immediately after this it gives off the coeliac axis, of which all three branches are seen in this plate. The splenic is seen near the front surface of the spleen, the coronary of the stomach between that organ and the liver, and the hepatic in the transverse fissure. A branch of the portal vein lies in the right division of this fissure. Both the supra-renal capsules are shown, presenting, however, quite different outlines. In front of the left one lies a ganglion of the sym- pathetic system. Archiv fur Anatomie und Entwickelungsgeschichte. 1878.