40 Frozen Sections of a Chi/d. Braune : Archiv fur Anatomie und Entwickelungsgeschichte. 1877. opening of the left spermatic vein, some are generally found near it in the renal vein. He found several instances of valves at or near the mouths of the renal veins and also of the semilunar fold at the lower part of the orifice of the renal vein which had been described before. Perhaps the most important feature of this plate is the view of the beginning and the end of the duodenum. A probe is passed through the pylorus. The thickening of the muscular layer at this point is very striking. The opening looks almost directly backward. The inferior wall of the duodenum is seen in this plate, but the cavity of the gut rises above this level as it passes between the gall-bladder and the head of the pancreas. It then turns abruptly downward, and we see it descending between the gall-bladder and the renal vein. In Plate X. it is seen, having again changed its direction, running from right to left across the body of the second lumbar vertebra be- hind the mesentery, in which branches of the superior mesenteric artery are seen. It then rises and inclines forward to end in the fold shown in Plate IX. Thus we see both ends of the duodenum at about the same level. They are both, to a certain extent, fixed points ; the former being attached to the stomach, and the latter sus- pended by muscular fibres coming from the coeliac axis and the crus of the diaphragm. The remainder of the duodenum—to wit, all but the ends—is pretty freely movable. It has been compared to a horse- shoe, and to a ring not quite completed.1 The plates show its peri- toneal relations very fairly. In Plate IX. we see its first part cov- ered by peritoneum on the right from the general cavity, on the left from the lesser, both being prolonged from the front and the back of the stomach respectively. In Plate X. the peritoneum is seen cov- ering the front of the transverse portion, excepting where it is behind the mesentery. On the left, it begins to be surrounded again by the peritoneum. In Plate IX. the colon appears in a mass of fat between the liver and spleen. Its apparently minute size and the absence of all peritoneal attachment will be accounted for when it is known that the very highest point of the colon is barely touched. A considerable part of the pancreas appears in this plate, in front of the first lumbar vertebra. The head lies against the duodenum, the tail in front of the left kidney. The peritoneum passes over its anterior surface.