Frozen Sections of a Child. 1 2 phrenic nerve is still in front of each, but gradually working its way to the inner side of the muscle. The subclavian vein is seen in front of the muscle on the right side, but on the left it is just too deep. The subclavian artery and the brachial plexus cross the first rib behind this muscle and before the scalenus medius. According to Zuckerkandl1 the artery and the plexus are generally separated by the scalenus minimus (long known as an anomaly), which arises from the trans- verse processes of the sixth and seventh cervical vertebrae, or the latter only, and from the upper border of the first rib. It runs to be inserted into the same rib between the structures just mentioned, but it is attached also to the top of the pleura. Its chief purpose appa- rently is to strengthen and tighten the latter. Sometimes the place of the muscle is taken by fibrous bands, which, indeed, had been ob- served by Sibson. The cervical portion of the thymus, which often reaches to the thyroid, lies in front of the trachea and great vessels. The innominate divides just below the surface of this section, rather above the right sterno-clavicular joint. The left carotid is on the left of the trachea, and the left subclavian far back beside the oesophagus. The cut ends of both subclavian arteries show clearly how they arch over the lung, resting on the pleura. The internal mammary artery and vein lie in the angle between the right subclavian and the scalenus anticus. On the left, only the artery is seen beside the muscle. The internal jug- ular appears on both sides, but the subclavian vein only on the right. The innominate veins begin just below the section. The right pneu- mogastric nerve runs directly before the subclavian artery, being still behind and between the carotid and jugular. The left one is nearly in front of the carotid. The left recurrent laryngeal nerve runs in the angle between the trachea and oesophagus, but the right one, which is given oft just in front of the subclavian, has not yet had time to get there, and is seen behind the artery. We can now resume the study of the cervical fascise. The an- terior layer splits below the thyroid into one going to the front of the sternum, and into a stronger one passing to its posterior surface. It is seen separating the sterno-hyoids and thyroids from the sternal insertions of the sterno-mastoids. This deeper layer gives off the important expansion that passes from the posterior belly of the omo- Zeitschrift fur Anatomie und Entwickelungsgeschichte, Band II.