32 Frozen Sections of a Child. near its lowest point. On the right it lies against the bony part of the same rib. (The right of this section is higher than the left.) In Plate IX. it reaches the tenth rib on both sides, at a point not far from the axillary line. It lies behind both kidneys, but covers more of the right one. On both sides, the pleura reaches the upper border of the last rib, near its beginning, but the rib very soon runs away from it, as may be inferred from Plate IX. A case has been re- ported in which a surgeon operating in the lumbar region to reach the kidney, mistook the eleventh rib for the twelfth, and by carrying the incision toward its lower border, opened the pleura. Plate IX. shows that at that level such an incision opposite the kidney would certainly open the pleura on the right, and perhaps on the left. The length of the twelfth rib is important in this connection, for the rib is by no means always easy to recognize. Dr. Holl1 examined sixty skeletons of all ages to ascertain the absolute and relative length of the twelfth rib. As there are two sides to each subject, and the ribs are not necessarily symmetrical, this gives one hundred and twenty observations. The longest twelfth rib measured 16.0 ctm. (giants and children being omitted), and the shortest, 2.0 ctm. The twelfth was three-fourths of the length of the eleventh in thirty-three cases ; one- half in forty-four; one-third in eighteen ; one-fourth in fifteen ; one- sixth in three, and one-eighth in one. This shows how very variable it may be. Holl points out as a fact of great surgical importance that the pleura descends just as far as usual when the twelfth rib is want- ing, or but slightly developed. The pleura is attached rather loosely to the walls of the chest by a layer of areolar tissue, which accounts for the slightness of the in- jury it usually suffers in fractures of the ribs. For all practical purposes, we may consider the diaphragm as a circular muscle whose fibres converge to the central tendon. This, as stated above, is firmly attached to the pericardium, and through this, to the vertebral column at the top of the thorax, and less firmly to the cervical fascia and to the sternum. The bearing of these points on the mechanism of respiration deserves careful study. The tho- racic cavity can be enlarged by the raising of the upper ribs and of the sternum, which together with some slight rotation of the ribs, in- 1 Die Bedeutung der Zwolften Rippe bei der Nephrotomie. Archiv fur klinische Chi- rurgie. Band xxv., 1880.