28 Frozen Sections of a Child. of the male sternum, and of 8.94 ctm. for the female.1 The history of the development of the sternum has not been thoroughly studied. I believe that the lower part of the body of the bone is proportionally small in early childhood, which occasions discrepancies with the rela- tions of the adult, as occurs in this subject. The upper surface of the diaphragm, separating the right lung from the liver, is just grazed in this section. The view of the heart shows the right auricle resting on the liver, the right ventricle, and the lower posterior wall of the left one. The apex is seen in Plate VII. In the section before us, the lower segment of the tricuspid is seen lying on the lower wall. The other two are placed higher, one attached to the front wall, the other to the septum. It is not easy to define accurately the position of the valve, but we may say that it lies behind the lower fourth of the sternum, and that its upper border probably does not quite reach the level of the fourth cartilage, as it should. The floor of the right auricle presents nothing of interest, excepting the remains of the Eustachian valve, the edge of which ap- pears as a line in front of the orifice of the vena cava inferior. It is easy to see, by looking at Plate V., how this valve, when more de- veloped, as in intra-uterine life, would direct the current toward the fenestra ovalis, which must have been in the oblique inter-auricular septum, the top of which is seen in that plate. The vena cava inferior passes through the tendinous part of the diaphragm opposite the lower part of the body of the ninth dorsal vertebra. It is kept widely distended by its firm attachments to the diaphragm. Thus, even at this age this vein exists as a distinct vessel above the diaphragm. At birth it opens into the heart almost immediately after passing the foramen. In the adult the vessel runs upward and bends toward the left. As the foramen through the diaphragm is about horizontal, and the opening into the heart nearly vertical, it follows that the posterior and right surface of the vein is longer than its anterior and left one. According to Luschka, the former is 3.8 ctm., the latter 2.2 ctm. The vein contains no muscular fibres above the diaphragm, but fibres from the heart end tendinously in its walls, apparently to expand, not to constrict it. It is covered by the pericardium in its upper two-thirds. We will now endeavor to define the position of the heart. The apex is on a level with the upper border of the cartilage of the sixth 1 Journal of Anatomy and Physiology. Vol. XV. 1881.