Frozen Sections of a Child. 37 The views of the stomach are very instructive. They confirm entirely Luschka’s statement that the fundus points upward, and that the lesser curvature is essentially vertical. It is astonishing to find it still described as the upper border of the stomach. The fundus reaches nearly as high as the liver. In the axillary line it is opposite the seventh rib. In Plate VII. it is seen cut transversely. The next view shows the stomach changing its position, running at first forward, and then turning to the right beneath the liver. The lowest part of the greater curvature is seen in Plate X. This shows also precisely how far it extends to the right. Certainly five-sixths of the stomach are on the left of the median line, as Luschka states. The pylorus is seen in Plate IX., opposite the first lumbar vertebra. By comparing this plate with the two preceding, the direction of the lesser curvature can be made out. The pylorus is usually found between the ensiform cartilage and the right costal arch.1 Some important relations of the peritoneum can be studied in Plate VIII. The space behind the stomach, which extends down into the great omentum, is a part of the lesser peritoneal cavity and communicates with the general cavity by the foramen of Winslow. Remembering that this foramen is bounded below by the duodenum, in front by the portal vessels, behind by the vena cava, and above by the lobe of Spigelius, we see that a line drawn directly forward in this section, from the vena cava to the transverse fissure, would indicate its position, and, indeed, be separated from it only by a thin layer of liver. The -< shaped peritoneal cavity, which we see to the left of the lobe of Spigelius, also belongs to the cavity of the omentum. Its anterior wall in this place is formed by the gastro-hepatic omen- tum, a double layer of peritoneum running from the transverse fis- sure to the lesser curvature. A considerable part of the spleen is shown at this level without peritoneal covering. 1 If I remember rightly, the stomach contained frozen milk when the section was made. It was very moderately distended. The fact that the lowest part of the stomach is contracted and the upper dilated is easily understood when it is remembered that the body was frozen lying on its back ; so that the contents of the stomach would naturally gravitate toward the fundus.