Frozen Sections of a Child. 8 the adult.1 The shortness of the neck in infancy does not, therefore, depend on that of the cervical region of the spine, but on the large- ness of the head, the high position of the sternum, and the abun- dance of fat. The sixth cervical nerve is seen leaving the spinal canal, which is broad to contain the cervical enlargement. It is well to remember, that as there are eight cervical nerves and only seven vertebrae, each of the first seven passes above the vertebra of the correspond- ing number, and in the other regions the nerve passes under its ver- tebra. The nerves do not arise from the cord opposite their points of exit, but somewhat higher; suffice it to say, for the cervical region, that the eight nerves are all given off above the fifth, or certainly the sixth, spine, which is about on a level with the body of its vertebra. The fifth nerve and a branch of the fourth are seen between the scalenus anticus and medius on their way to the brachial plexus. The phrenic is just in front of the former muscle, which it follows down to the thorax. This nerve arises from the fourth cervical, but almost al- ways receives fibres from the fifth, though at very uncertain points. The trachea is divided a little below the cricoid, probably through the first ring. This, therefore, is the important region of trache- otomy. The isthmus of the thyroid appears to be rather large ; usually it covers the three rings after the first,2 but it is extremely variable, and may be wanting. The left lobe reaches to the oesopha- gus, and slightly overlaps the carotid. It is easy to see how, if en- larged, it might make its way between the artery and the vein, as is said sometimes to be the case. The oesophagus, cut just below its origin, already inclines to the left. The recurrent laryngeal nerves lie in the angles between it and the trachea. The muscular masses and the general arrangement of the fasciae are easily understood. The superficial muscular layer, omitting the platysma, consists of the sterno-mastoids and the trapezii. They are both supplied by the spinal-accessory nerve, with some assistance from the spinal nerves. It is a mistake to suppose that the sterno- mastoids bow the head. As they are attached behind the transverse axis of the occipital joints, they would tend to throw the face upward. The action of one of them is to turn the face to the other side. They 1 Aeby : Archiv. fur Anatomie und Entwickelungsgeschichte, 1879. 2 Pilcher : Annals of Anatomy and Surgery, April, 1881.