PLATE XIII. THIS is an interesting but, at first, a very confusing section. It is nearly 2.5 ctm. below the last, and rather higher on the right than on the left. The very curious view of the sacrum suggests that the cut slants backward, but it does so, at most, to a very slight ex- tent. The anterior superior spinous processes of the ilia are struck pretty evenly on both sides. The articular surface of the ilium is separated from the expanded portion that forms the wall of the false pelvis by a well-marked angle which represents the beginning of the ilio-pectineal line at the edge of the promontory of the sacrum. On account of the relations of the great sacral nerves to the vertebrae it will be convenient to consider both together. The fifth lumbar nerve is seen in Plate XII. leaving the spinal canal; it is seen again in this plate, close by the promontory, as the lumbo sacral cord, a name it assumes after it is joined by a branch from the fourth lumbar, which probably has occurred before it has reached this level. The first sacral nerve appears just as it leaves the anterior sacral foramen. The bodies and the lateral masses of the second and third sacral verte- brae are seen farther back, cut very obliquely. The second sacral nerve lies in the foramen between them. The arch of the third vertebra is very accurately hit. The third sacral nerve, much smaller than the preceding ones, lies in the canal, which it is just about to leave. The sacral plexus, be it remembered, is formed by the lumbo-sacral cord, the first three sacral nerves, and a branch of the fourth. It is a broad nervous band, reaching toward the lower part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, which its direct continuation, the great sciatic nerve, leaves below the pyriformis. The view of the process of ossification is a very instructive one. The inclination of the pelvis must be very consider- able to account for this view of the sacrum. To place the pelvis in its proper position, the normal conjugata of Hermann Meyer should form an angle of 30° with the horizon. This conjugata is a line run-