59 Frozen Sections of a Child. the female.1 The diagnosis cannot be made with certainty, but it is very probable that this state would account for some of the obscure pains felt in the left side only at the menstrual period. The rectum is described elsewhere. Suffice it, therefore, to say that it is struck just as it is completing a curve with its convexity to the right. Below the fold, seen on the left, it expands to its greatest dimensions. This plate shows the lowest part of the peritoneal pouch between it and the uterus, which extends here as in the adult, behind the upper part of the vagina. The distance of this from the anus is in this subject approximatively 2.5 ctm. According to Tillaux, in the adult male this distance is 5 ctm. with an empty bladder and 6 ctm. for a full one. There may be a variation, however, of 2 ctm. It is well known that when the bladder is distended, a greater extent of it lies above the symphysis uncovered by peritoneum. Dr. Garson2 * 4 has shown that a distended rectum ma- terially changes the relations both of the bladder and of the perito - neum. His observations apply only to the male. He has shown that by distending the rectum the bladder may be pushed bodily upward, carrying the peritoneum farther from the symphysis, and raising it also between the bladder and rectum. This displacement of the bladder is due to stretching of the urethra, chiefly in the prostatic and some- what in the membranous portion. The greater and the lesser sacro-sciatic ligaments are seen most distinctly on the right side. The latter lies inside of the former. With the aid of the muscles they supply the deficiency in the walls of the pelvis caused by the sciatic notch. The obturator internus is seen in- side the pelvis, in the chamber formed by the bone and the obturator fascia. A mass of fat occupies the ischio-rectal fossa between this and the pelvic fascia which passes to the sides of the bladder, vagina, and rectum. The left ischium is divided just at the spine, to which the lesser ligament separating the two foramina is attached. The pudic artery and nerve (the latter drawn rather large) are seen as they turn round it. The glutei muscles are shown most clearly on the right. On 1 Some years ago, while injecting the system of the vena cava inferior from the common iliac vein in a woman of at least middle age, I was surprised to see a very rich plexus of veins appear in the left broad ligament and send a branch across the uterus. I found that this had occurred by the passage of the injection from the left renal vein downward through the ova- rian vein, which was as large as my little finger. Vide Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, Vol. 96. I subsequently found that this condition had been described in Richet's Anatomie Medico-Chirurgicale. 4 Edinburgh Medical Journal, October, 1878.