PLATE XIV. THE plane of this section is about 2.2 ctm. below that of the one above. It passes 7 mm. above the symphysis of the pubis and strikes the last piece of the sacrum. It is higher on the right than on the left, but about level from before backward. Hence it is evident that, in this case at least, the pelvis has reached its full inclination. One is struck by the length of the antero-posterior diameter compared with the transverse one; but sections by Braune, Pirogoff, and Riidin- %• ger show very nearly the same proportions in similar sections of the adult pelvis. The prominence of the front of the abdomen, though caused in part by the distended bladder, is due even more to the ac- cumulation of subcutaneous fat above the pubes. At least half the cavity is filled by the bladder, which was moderately distended with urine. The cut divided it very nearly evenly. It is not pointed above, as in infancy, but is irregularly globular and somewhat compressed from before backward, which often is the case with the female bladder, as is also, according to Luschka, the lateral asymmetry which is seen in this instance. The lightly shaded part of the bladder shows the place at which it bulges forward over the pubes. The summit of the bladder is at the anterior border, where it extends upward between the intestines and the abdominal wall. The posterior wall of the bladder is thicker than the front one. The lowest point is at the opening of the urethra, which is very sudden, if the expression is allowable. There is the merest trace of a funnel-like narrowing, con- stituting the so-called neck of the bladder. This, if it exist at all, is, at all events, much less developed in the female than in the male. Straws have been passed through the terminations of the ureters, which are not themselves visible, as they open in the posterior wall of the blad- der. The trigonum vesiccz is a triangle formed by the openings of the ureters and the urethra, the mucous membrane covering it being smooth instead of in folds, as elsewhere. The wall below it is thickened 8