Frozen Sections of a Child. 33 creases both the vertical and the transverse diameters. An important part of the process, however, is the contraction of the diaphragm, by which the tendinous centre is made tense, and the abdominal viscera depressed. Now, for the muscle to act effectively, its lateral points of origin must be fixed, and this is done by the muscles that pull the lower ribs downward and backward. Such are the quadratus lum- borum, the serratus posticus inferior, and many of the small lateral bellies of the great erector spinse. The ribs, therefore, may be pulled both upward and downward in vigorous inspiration, or at least the lower ones may be drawn rather backward and held fast. This question has been confused by those who use the words “ inspiratory ” as applied to a muscle as synonymous with “ raising the ribs,” which involves, if the above view be correct, a serious error. Mechanical toys, like Hamberger’s bars are quite misleading. The vexed and very complicated question of the action of the intercostals is much simplified by this theory. If the movements of all the ribs are not free and in the same direction, these muscles cannot have a common ef- fect on all parts of the thorax. This is true whether applied to both the external and internal intercostals, or to either set separately. In point of fact the action of both is simply to draw the more movable ribs toward the more fixed. Those in the upper part of the chest pull upward, those in the lower downward, and the action of almost any set of them must vary with circumstances. There is, however, another point to be considered, namely, the effect of the inspiratory movement on the great veins that lead to the heart.1 The opening of the cava inferior through the tendinous portion is made as large as possible by the contraction of that muscle, and the suction power, both of the inspiratory enlargement of the chest and of the relaxing auricle, act very strongly on the contents of the vena cava and on the portal circulation. Two large branches of the hepatic vein are seen in Plate VII. on their way to the cava, which they enter just below the dia- phragm. A similar effect is, no doubt, produced on the great veins at the root of the neck. Leaving the liver and stomach for the next chapter, we will dis- cuss the spleen. It reaches nearly, if not quite as high, as the stom- ach, that is, somewhat below the level of the head of the ninth rib. It extends to the lower half of the first lumbar. It is evident that the / 1 Forbes on the Diaphragm. The American Journal of Medical Science, July, 1880.