46 Frozen Sections of a Child. is no sign of inflammation around it. It is probable that small invagi- nations occur not rarely in children, and reduce themselves without giving rise to symptoms. The caecum is seen in this plate lying on the right side of the ab- domen. More than one-half of it is below the surface of this section, so that we may with sufficient accuracy say that it is on a level with the umbilicus. The ilium lies on the left of the caecum as it descends to open into it lower down. The vermiform appendix, which arises from the rear of the caecum at a still lower point, appears behind .it. It pursues a twisted course, in the main, upward and inward. To un- derstand this position of the caecum, we must remember that in the early part of foetal life the caecum, which is a little diverticulum of the intestine, lies below the liver near the median line. The future large intestine runs from this point to the left, and then downward. Gradually, however, the caecum moves to the right above the mesen- tery, thus forming the transverse colon. It then descends along the right side of the abdomen, forming the ascending colon. According to Dr. Allen Thomson,1 the parts are in the same positions as in the adult in the fourth or fifth month of foetal life. Kolliker2 states that they descend toward the iliac fossa in the latter half of foetal life. It is evi- dent that in this child the caecum has made very little progress in its descent from the right hypochondrium. My observations lead me to believe that the wanderings of the caecum are not completed as soon as these authorities state. I doubt very much if, as a rule, it has reached its permanent position at birth, and think that not very rarely it does not reach it for a year or two afterward. The ascending colon, what there is of it, runs upward in front of the right kidney, in the angle between it and the lowest part of the liver, as is shown in Plate X. It rises a little above this level, but soon turns down to reappear in the same plate as the transverse colon, which is traced to the side of the stomach. It reappears on the left of that organ, and rises higher than on the right. Its highest point is just opened in Plate IX. beside the beginning of the cartilage of the ninth rib. The descending colon is seen in Plate X. outside of the kidney. It follows the surface of the organ, so that below the kidney in Plate XI. we see it further in, just opposite the border of the erector spinae. In Plate XII. it is making its way forward, lying Quain’s Anatomy. Eighth edition. Vol. II. ! Entwickelungsgeschichte.