50 Frozen Sections of a Child. sal and second lumbar. He adds that it “ would indicate the line of gravity of the head and trunk in a perfectly upright and balanced position, traversing the pelvis midway between the cotylo-femoral joints and falling between the bases of support.” It should be stated that these remarks of Mr. Wood apply especially to the young adult male. Henle’s rule that the middle of a line from the top of the atlas to the end of the coccyx is opposite the eleventh dorsal, that the first quarter ends opposite the lower border of the third dorsal, and the third quarter opposite the lower edge of the fourth lumbar, has seemed to me remarkably accurate. At birth the spinal column is very nearly straight; indeed, the line of the spinous processes may be perfectly so, but the bodies of the vertebrae show a curve in the cervical and dorsal regions.1 According to Ballandin2 the normal curve of the neck does not appear till the third month after birth. It soon be- comes more stable, as does also the dorsal one. The lumbar curve does not appear till the child begins to walk, and it is stated that it can be obliterated by traction on the detached spine till the twentieth year. Ballandin’s views on the production of the lumbar curve are interesting and plausible, and agree well with what was said in the last chapter concerning the powerful muscles of the back that main- tain the upright position and the strength of the front part of the cap- sule of the hip. Ballandin states that if a very young child be laid on its back, with the lumbar and dorsal spinous processes resting on the table, the legs naturally assume the position of outward rotation, the knees usually being somewhat bent. If the knees are brought to- gether, they at once spring up farther from the table ; but if they be pressed down and made to touch it, the abdomen becomes prominent and the spinal column bends forward in the lumbar region. The same thing occurs after the removal of the viscera, and can be shown to depend on the shortness of the ilio-femoral ligaments. As the child learns to stand and walk, and the great erector muscles are raising the body, they are constantly resisted by this ligament (assisted probably by the iliacus and psoas), and thus the obliquity of the pelvis is in- creased and the lumbar region of the spine pulled forward. Returning to this plate we find little worthy of notice in the ab- dominal viscera. The colon is seen between the left iliacus and psoas, Bouland : Robin’s Journal de l’Anatomie et de la Physiologie. 1872. Virchow’s Archives. Vol. LVII.