Frozen Sections of a Child. 21 in front of it, getting behind the gullet, as is shown in Plates VI. and VII. It runs through the diaphragm below Plate VIII., opposite the twelfth dorsal vertebra. The root of the lung is composed of the bronchus, blood-vessels, nerves, and lymphatics. The most important of these structures are seen in Plate IV. The right bronchus is larger than its fellow, which is normal, and appears to descend more rapidly, which is not. On the right, the right branch of the artery is in front of the bronchus, and a branch of the superior vein before that. On the left the vein is in front of the bronchus, and the artery behind ; but if the section had been made a little higher the story would have been different, for the left pulmonary artery would have been seen arching over the bronchus, and but little of the vein would have been seen. Plate V. shows the lower right pulmonary vein opening into the left auricle. The left one is cut while it is rising toward the heart. In fact, each of the left pulmonary veins opens into the heart somewhat above its fellow. According to the usual description, the order from above downward is as follows : on the right, bronchus, artery, veins ; on the left, ar- tery, bronchus, veins; and from before backward on both sides, veins, artery, bronchus. This order from above downward is in the main correct, but in the other direction it can include only the superior pul- monary veins, for Plate V. shows clearly that the inferior ones can- not be in a plane anterior to that of the arteries. A mass of enlarged and degenerated glands lies beneath the bifurcation of the trachea. This, together with the bronchi, forms at this level the front wall of the posterior mediastinum. The lateral walls are formed by folds of the pleurae. The contents are the aorta, the oesophagus, with the pneumogastric nerves, the thoracic duct, and the vena azygos. It contains, also, sympathetic nerves, but they were not recognized. The vena azygos arches over the root of the right lung to join the vena cava just above the pericardium. It constitutes a very important connection between the systems of the upper and lower venae cavae.