Frozen Sections of a Child. 62 Plate XV. shows the rectum at the beginning of the last curve and below the expansion which it presented at the level of the preceding plate. The folds of the mucous membrane of the rectum are mostly vertical near the anus, this plate shows a well-marked anterior one ; higher up they are transverse or oblique. The external sphincter deserves its name, not only because it is below the internal, but be- cause it surrounds it also. The fibres of the levator ani reach the gut at the upper border of the external sphincter and mingle with those of that muscle. Some 8 ctm. above the anus, there is very commonly a thickening of the circular muscular fibres, called the third sphincter. It is of little consequence and does not deserve the atten- tion it has received. The mechanism of defecation is probably pretty much as follows: The faeces accumulate in the sigmoid flexure, only a small part descending into the rectum between operations, except in cases of habitual constipation. When the mass passes into the rectum in sufficient quantity, the need of an evacuation is felt, but the process is started by the voluntary muscles, such as the diaphragm and those of the abdomen which compress the abdominal contents. This compression is increased by the contraction of the levator ani, which at the same time tends to pull open the anus. The sphincters yield before the pressure. Just how great a share of the work is done by the muscles of the intestine proper can hardly be ascertained. It is probable, however, that their assistance is necessary to com- pletely empty the rectum. Doubtless sometimes they play the chief part, and sometimes a very subordinate one. The upper part of the rectum has a true mesentery, which permits moderate displacement. It has been demonstrated that the whole hand can be introduced into the rectum, and also that it had much better not be, unless the infor- mation to be gained is of sufficient value to justify risking thb patient’s life to obtain it. A wedge-shaped space between the lower parts of the rectum and vagina, which bend respectively backward and for- ward, is filled in part by the sphincter muscles and the remainder by areolar tissue. This is the perinaeum. The urethra is seen just in front of the vagina. The right femur is struck at the great trochanter. The lowest part of the cavity of the joint is opened on that side, but on the left the cut passes lower, a little above the trochanter minor. The psoas and iliacus, now united, are seen on both sides, on the left, just above their insertion. They lie in front of the hip-joint, and send some