PLATE I. THE plane of this section inclines somewhat forward. The limits of the neck are not easily defined: for, in front, the upper part is hidden by the lower half of the face, and behind, the lower part of the neck is indistinguishable from the back. Thus, there is but a very small part of the body that is clearly neck, and nothing else, and this condition is particularly marked in infancy and early childhood. The cut passes through the body of the sixth cervical vertebra, strik- ing it in front near its upper border, where it is still cartilaginous. The articular processes of the fifth cervical are seen resting against those of the sixth. The essential centres of ossification of a vertebra are one for the body and one for each half of the arch. They are separated by the neuro-central sutures. The direction of these sutures is modified by the presence of a double transverse process in the cer- vical region. A more correct idea of them is obtained from Plate V., where they cut off merely the posterior angles of the body. They disappear from the fourth to the sixth year. A glance at Plate X. will show that ossification is completed sooner in the lower part of the column. The vertebral artery is seen in its foramen. In front of it is the projection known as the tubercle of Chassaignac, which is a characteristic of the sixth vertebra, and sometimes used as a guide to the carotid. The intervertebral discs form 41.9 per cent, of the length of the cervical region of the adult spine, the mean length of this region be- ing 13.6 ctm. It forms 22.5 per cent, of the length of the column above the sacrum. In the very young embryo, the neck forms one-third of the spinal column (above the sacrum) and the lumbar region one- fifth. In the adult these proportions are pretty nearly reversed. This change begins very early, for at birth the lumbar region is longer than the cervical. At three years the proportionate length of the cervical region is a little greater and that of the lumbar a little less than in