PLATE VII. AN even section about 1.6 ctm. below the last. It shows impor- tant relations in both the thoracic and abdominal regions. The diaphragm is seen separating the cavities, except in front, where it passes for a short space above this section. The oesophagus, now in front of the aorta, opens just below the level of this section, opposite the lower half of the tenth dorsal. In the adult its termination is placed from the ninth to the eleventh. The apex of the heart is di- vided just at the lowest point of the cavity of the left ventricle. Only a very small pericardial cavity is seen around it. The lower edge of the right lung is seen behind the liver, and that of the left behind the spleen. A very small piece of the left lung appears also, outside of the apex of the heart, under cover of the sixth rib. The posterior borders of the lungs extend about 6 mm. below this plane. They are, therefore, below the tenth rib at its angle. In the mammillary and axillary lines they end very near the level of Plate VII. The lungs are, of course, in a state of complete expiration, and smaller than they probably can be during life, but one of the merits of a fro- zen section is that it shows them in much more normal relations than they would present if the chest were opened in the usual way, which would occasion their collapse. The pleural cavities extend consider- ably lower. They do not, however, follow the diaphragm into the angle which it forms with the cartilages of the six lower ribs ; the very lowest part of this space is filled with areolar tissue. The pleura is described as reaching in the mammillary line to the cartilage of the sixth, sometimes of the seventh rib ; and in the axillary line, to the lower border of the ninth rib on the right, and of the tenth on the left. It does not touch the cartilages of the four or five lower ribs. Let us compare this general description with this individual case. In Plate VIII. the front of the pleural cavity reaches about to the mammillary line. On the left, it lies against the seventh cartilage