54 Frozen Sections of a Child. ning from the top of the symphysis to a transverse line across the body of the third sacral vertebra. The anterior superior spines of the ilia should be in the same vertical plane as the spines of the pubes, and perhaps even a little in front of it. Very different views are ex- pressed as to the difference in the curve of the male and female sacrum. I agree with Ward that the male sacrum is the more curved, and that the curve is more regular. The female sacrum is more dis- tinctly divided into two parts, the upper of which is smooth and the lower curved, by the line just mentioned, which crosses the third ver- tebra. This line, I believe, was first described by Hermann Meyer. It is not rare to find the sacrum composed of six vertebrae. Some- times it seems as if there were an extra piece, intermediate in charac- ter and position, between the lumbar and sacral vertebrae, or the number of the latter is evidently increased. Bacarisse1 gives a rule for determining whether a mutilated sacrum is one of five or six pieces. If a line connecting the lower ends of the auricular surfaces pass above the middle of the third vertebra, there are five pieces ; if below it, six. The sacro-iliac synchondrosis is one of the strongest in the body, but great additional strength is gained by the very strong liga- ments passing from the sides of the sacrum and the back of the ilia, so as to oppose the separation of the latter by the weight of the body on the sacrum. The psoas and iliacus lying on the inner side of the ilium encroach a good deal on the abdominal cavity. The tendon of the psoas, at first inside the muscle, has now reached its outer border. It receives fibres from the iliacus as well as from the psoas. The vis- cera that are shown in this plate are, for the most part, either in or above the cavity of the true pelvis. The descending colon, and some folds of the small intestine, occupy the iliac fossae, and the anterior wall of the abdomen is distended so as to project in front of the pubes. Most of the remaining cavity is occupied by the sigmoid flexure of the colon. The point where the descending colon ends and the sigmoid flexure begins is not a very definitely placed one. In this instance it is in the thickness of the slice below Plate XIII. We see the descending colon cut transversely. It passes to the right, turns suddenly, and reappears behind the left rectus as the sigmoid. Luschka places the beginning opposite the highest point of the crest of the ilium, where the colon begins to be surrounded by peritoneum. Inaugural Thesis. Paris. 1873.