PLATE XI. THIS section is about 2.4 ctm. below the last. It passes through the intervertebral disk between the third and fourth lumbar vertebras, showing the spine and arch of the former, embraced by the articular processes of the latter. The breadth of the vertebral column is apparent. The spinal cord has come to an end in the thickness of the slice above, probably near the top of the third lumbar. At birth it is said to approach the fourth lumbar, but owing to the more rapid growth of the spinal column, it subsequently is not found so low. In man it ends at about the lower border of the first, and in woman, perhaps half way down the second. Nevertheless, according to Ravenel,1 the female cord is relatively shorter than the male. In this subject the cord is still relatively long. In the adult the origins of the nerves of the lumbar plexus are opposite the space from the eleventh to the twelfth dorsal spine, or a little lower, and those of the sacral plexus extend from the latter point to the first lumbar spine. They are, of course, lower here, but they cannot easily be placed. The umbilicus is rather below the level of this cut, opposite the fourth lumbar. Holden places it opposite the third lumbar, and Luschka opposite the lower edge of that vertebra. If I may differ from such authorities, I should say that it is more frequently below than above the disk between the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae, and near the level of the highest point of the crest of the ilium. I do not think that in this instance it is far from the adult position, though still rather lower. The great omentum lies in front of the intestines. Two pieces of the mesentery are seen, one of which runs transversely, and the other forward toward the right rectus. In the right anterior part of the abdomen there is an appearance somewhat resembling a diver- ticulum, such as is sometimes found in the lower part of the ilium. It is not one, however, but a true invagination of the intestine. There Zeitsohrift fur Anatomie and Entwickelungsgeschichte. Band II.