24 Frozen Sections of a Child. to the left side, and both this view and the next show how this ap- pears to be the important side of the heart, and the right merely an addition to it; yet before birth the two sides are of about equal strength. The conus arteriosus, a prolongation upward of the right ventricle to the pulmonary artery, is nearly in front of the aortic valves, two of which appear in this plate. Behind them is the mitral valve, consisting of two segments—an anterior one on the right, a posterior one on the left. The valve is closed; it lies behind the left border of the sternum, and at this level is opposite the fourth cartil- age. There was some difficulty in defining its limits quite accurately, but they seem to correspond very well with the normal ones of the adult, namely, from the third space to the fifth cartilage. The pul- monary valves are higher than the aortic, which are higher than the mitral, and the tricuspid is the lowest. No one of these valves, how- ever, is completely above the one next below it—they all overlap. The left auricle appears in this plate to deserve to be called the pos- terior one, but Plate IV. shows it extending forward on the left. The pleural cavities are about as near together behind the sternum as in the preceding plate, but the left lung makes way for the heart. Usually, a needle thrust through the fifth or sixth inter- costal space, and sometimes through the fourth at the left border of the sternum, will pierce the pericardium and not the pleura. The great fissure of the left lung begins rather above the head of the fourth rib, that of the right rather below it. The third, or middle, lobe of the right lung is shown in Plate V. It varies in size and shape, according as the fissure that forms its upper boundary runs upward from the main fissure from which it springs, directly forward, or downward, as in this case. As a rule, the main fissure usually strikes the lower surface of the lung, so that the front of the lung is formed entirely by the upper lobe, or by the upper and middle lobe on the right.1 In this case the middle lobe is a tongue-shaped body of little consequence, and the upper lobes form but a very small part of the base of both lungs. An extra lobe of the right lung may be formed by the abnormal course of the vena azygos, which makes a groove in the top of the 1 Dr. Cilley, of Cincinnati, lias the credit, I believe, of being the first to call attention to this in any publication in English. Vide Cincinnati Lancet and Clinic, 1881. The fact was, however, already known to German anatomists.