58 Frozen Sections of a Child by muscular fibres from the ureters, and a band running between their orifices may cause a ridge in the bladder. Accounts of the position of the trigonum do not agree. It is usually described as being at the lowest part of the bladder, its posterior angles being somewhat raised. Richet, however, states that the lowest part of the bladder is the “ has fond ” situated behind the trigonum. The openings of the ure- ters in this case, however, are distinctly in the posterior wall. In an- other girl, a little larger than this one, examined also by frozen sections, they have very nearly the same position. In a boy of about the same age, examined by opening the abdomen, the bladder was found nearly empty, and the trigonum was in the lower wall, though the ends of the ureters were higher than the urethra. There was a pouch formed by the posterior wall behind the ridge, at the base of the triangle. It seemed as if distention of the bladder would have raised the orifices of the ureters. In Braune’s sagittal section of a young male (twenty- one years), they are in the posterior wall. It is probable that this is their normal position in youth, and that, with advancing years, they gradually sink lower, especially in the male, in whom the base of the bladder is larger, and in whom the bladder is with more difficulty com- pletely emptied from various causes, and in whom, chiefly on account of the enlarging prostate, a depression or pouch behind the trigonum is very frequently developed in the latter part of life. In the female, this does not occur. The peritoneum covering the bladder approaches the plane of this section very closely at the anterior angles of the or- gan, and behind it, where it is reflected over the uterus. In the median line it does not come within 1.5 ctm. of the pubes. This plate shows the lowest part of the body of the uterus. It is not over two centimeters in length, measured as well as circumstances permit along the posterior surface. It is less expanded at the upper portion than in the adult. It inclines forward, resting against the back of the bladder. The broad ligaments are seen on the under surface of the slice above, running to the sides of the pelvis. The Fallopian tubes run much more upward than in the adult, so that the ovaries are seen in the preceding section. The folds of the broad ligament contain, even at this age, many veins which later form a series of very rich plexuses, which communicate both with the system of the iliac veins, and also by the plexus pampiniformis and ovarian veins, with the vena cava on the right and the renal vein on the left. These veins may become largely dilated and varicose, forming a true varicocele in