PLATE IX. Valves of the Renal Veins. Journal of Anatomy and Physiology. Vol. VI. THIS section is, perhaps, on the average, 1.8 ctm. below the pre- ceding, and is practically level. The cancellated tissue of the first lumbar vertebra is just nicked at its highest point. The rela- tions correspond remarkably well with those shown in one of Braune’s sections through the middle of the same vertebra, the chief difference being that this plate shows more of the liver and stomach. The last four ribs are shown on both sides, and each ninth rib is cut at its junction with its cartilage. In Braune’s plate the lowest part of the seventh is shown on one side pretty much as it is shown in Plate VIII. From this we may infer that not only are the stomach and liver proportionally larger in the child, but also that the lower part of the front of the thorax does not descend so low as in the adult. The lowest part of the pleura is seen on each side. The umbilical fissure, containing the falciform ligament, cuts off the left lobe of the liver. The gall-bladder is opened. It does not extend so far forward as in the adult. The kidneys lie on each side of the spinal column. The left one is divided near its middle, the right one above it. The aorta, lying between the vertebral origins of the diaphragm, is seen giving off the superior mesenteric artery. The portal vein is directly before it, below the pancreas. This is formed by the junction of the splenic and superior mesenteric veins. The inferior mesenteric is a tributary of the former. The vena cava appears immense in this sec - tion, which is due to the fact that the right renal vein is laid open at its entrance into it, so that they are shown as one. Valves at or near the mouth of each renal vein and those of the spermatic veins have been alluded to, but the slight descriptions given of them do not agree. Mr. Rivington,1 who has carefully examined a small number of cases, thinks more extended observations would be likely to estab- lish the existence of valves at the orifices of both the right and left spermatic veins with few exceptions. When no valves exist at the