Frozen Sections of a Child. 42 loaded with fat in the adult. The mesentery lies in front of the du- odenum, just below the origin of the transverse meso-colon, and con- tains the greater part of the ramifications of the superior mesenteric artery in its folds. The kidneys present, in this plate, pretty nearly the reverse of their relative sizes, as shown in Plate IX. The right one is here divided at about its middle, and the left one below it. Plate VIII. shows the left kidney at the disk between the eleventh and twelfth vertebrae, in an angle bounded by the stomach in front and the spleen on the left. The diaphragm and pleura overlap it behind. The left kidney is the higher, though Plate VIII. unfortunately makes it appear a little higher than it should, owing to the obliquity of the cut. The right one, which is seen alone in Plate XI., is clearly the lower. The left kidney is said to reach to the upper border of the eleventh rib, and the right half a rib’s breadth lower. It is very possible that the difference between the two is more marked in this case, and that the left one is a trifle higher; but this account is not far wrong. About half of the right kidney appears below the ribs, and rather less of the left. The diaphragm, as already stated, covers the back of their upper ends, and lower down they rest against the quadratus lumborum behind and the psoas on their inner side. The peritoneum rests against them to a varying extent, but normally never surrounds them. A kidney may be movable from either one of two causes : ist, it may have a peritoneal covering and a true mesentery; 2d, and, more commonly, the areolar tissue that surrounds it may become less firm than before, especially by the loss of fat, and thus leave the kid- ney without support. The three muscular layers bounding the sides of the abdomen present some features that call for notice. It is interesting to see that the external and internal oblique run in the same direction, and are in the same planes as the external and internal intercostals, respec- tively, and that the triangularis sterni appears to be a continuation of the transversalis. As to the action of these muscles and the purpose of their arrangement, it is evident that they protect the contents of the abdomen more effectually than if their fibres all ran in one direc- tion. There is, I think, no evidence that they can contract indepen- dently, and their close connection makes it improbable. They are essentially compressors of the abdomen ; they help to extrude its ex- cretions, and they are sometimes antagonists of the diaphragm. They