Frozen Sections of a Child. 13 hyoid to the clavicle and the first rib. It then invests the subclavius (which is seen on the outer side of both clavicles), and extends from the first rib to the coracoid process. This well-defined fascia is called the costo-coracoid membrane. It is continued into the axilla, forming the front portion of the sheath of the axillary vessels ; the remainder is formed by another prolongation of the deep cervical fascia. The pre- vertebral fascia is very dense in this region. Strong prolongations arise from it opposite the lower cervical and the upper dorsal verte- brse and are attached to the roots of the lungs, but more particularly to the front and back of the pericardium, and thus indirectly to the diaphragm. They may be called its suspensory ligaments, and pre- vent any serious sinking of its tendinous centre.1 The pericardium is attached also to the sternum by areolar tissue, among which certain bands may be distinguished, named by Luschka the superior and in- ferior sterno-pericardiac ligaments. The upper part of the left shoulder-joint is opened, and but a small piece is taken off from the head of the humerus. The beginning of the acromion is behind it, and on the inner side the upper surface of the root of the coracoid is seen. The superior angle of the scapula is behind the angle of the second rib, and its posterior border ends immediately above Plate V. Its relations, therefore, are the same as in the adult: it covers the ribs from the second to the seventh in- clusive. On the right the cut falls decidedly lower, striking the glenoid cavity, the coracoid, and the greater tuberosity of the humerus. The long head of the biceps runs on this side through its sheath in the wall of the capsule, but on the left it is seen inside the joint running over the head of the humerus. The trapezius, deltoid, and pectoralis major, are all parts of one muscular layer. On the left, the cephalic vein is seen just after it has pierced the fascia between the two latter. This plate and the next show how liable the deltoid is to injury in severe blows or falls on the shoulder. It is quite as likely that its very fre- quent wasting in such cases is due to direct injury to the muscle as to the circumflex nerve that supplies it. The supra-spinatus is seen on both sides, divided before its insertion. In the specimen, though not in the plate, fibres of the infra-spinatus may be distinguished mingling with the capsule of the right shoulder. It is worth while to remember how high up on the greater tuberosity these rotators are inserted. 1 Teutleben : Archiv fur Anatomie und Entwickelungsgeschichte, 1877.