PLATE X. THE slice above this section, as well as the remainder, are rather thicker than those through the upper part of the body; thus, the level of this plate is nearly 2.3 ctm. below that of the preceding. The second lumbar vertebrae is divided in its lower half. The carti- lages of the eleventh and twelfth ribs are cut near their tips ; they are now quite out of the thoracic region, and end between the abdominal muscles. The cartilage of the tenth rib is missed on the right by a hair’s breadth. The lumbar region of the spine has a mean length in the adult of 17.2 ctm., forming 29.84 per cent, of the movable portion of the spine. The intervertebral disks represent 44.6 per cent, of it. The diameter of the abdomen from before backward is less compared with the breadth than in the last plate, probably on account of the small piece of the liver that is found in this section. The lowest part of the stomach lies in front, and on either side of it a piece of the colon is seen. A piece of the colon appears by each kidney. The transverse colon, as may be inferred from this plate, is a loop or fes- toon attached at two points to the back of the abdomen, and hanging both downward and forward. The relations of the peritoneum to the colon are interesting, though more important in other parts of it than in those shown in this plate. The parts of the ascending and descend- ing colon lying by either kidney are but partially covered. The great omentum is seen prolonged from the left of the stomach across a piece of the transverse colon. Let it be remembered that the cavity of the omentum is behind the stomach and above the transverse meso-colon, and then is prolonged downward in a fold of peritoneum attached to the stomach above and passing over the front of the colon, and in- separably united to the upper anterior surface of the meso-colon, from which it originally was distinct. The descending portion of the omentum was necessarily drawn in a conventional manner, which makes it appear thicker than it really is at this age. • It may become 6