PLATE XV. THIS section is about 2.2 ctm. below the last. It passes just be- low the symphysis in front, and misses by a very little the tip of the coccyx. These two points, therefore, are about on a level, if the section is straight. There is, however, a suspicion that it may slant a little backward. The tuberosities of the ischia with the pieces of the pubes map out the lateral outlines of the pelvis, which appears triangu- lar. If the section had been a little higher, so as to strike the tip of the coccyx and the great sacro-sciatic ligament, it would have been irregularly diamond-shaped. As it is, we see the obturator internus on either side, in its case formed by the obturator membrane and the ob- turator fascia; and in the middle the urethra, vagina, and rectum, en- closed by muscle which appears to be the lower part of the levator ani. On either side of this is the fat of the ischio-rectal fossa, which runs up between the levator and the obturator fascia, and is continuous below with the fat of the thighs and buttocks. The coccygeus, which runs from the spine of the ischium to the side of the coccyx, is in the same plane as the levator ani, and what in the male is called the leva- tor prostatae, and in the female runs to the sides of the vagina, is really a part of the same. We will now follow the rectum from its beginning, opposite the left sacro-iliac synchondrosis, which appears in Plate XIII. It then sweeps downward, backward, and to the right, frequently, at least, crossing the middle, and then describing another curve with its con- vexity to the right, resumes its median position. Plate XIV. shows the last mentioned curve. On the left is seen a sharp fold formed by the bowel which falls on the line of the section, below it the rectum expands into a pouch opposite the last piece of the sacrum. The rectum then runs forward and at last turns distinctly downward and backward. This last curve exists in both sexes, and it is very im- portant that it should not be forgotten when introducing instruments.