ON THE RECENT PROGRESS OF ANATOMY, AND ITS INFLUENCE ON SURGERY: 1 tti\m, DELIVERED AT THE HOYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS, AT THE EVENING MEETING, ON THE 2ND OF JULY, 1851. By JA3IES PAGET, F.R.S. PROFEISOB OF AXATOMT AKD SUBGEKT TO THE COLLEGE. LONDON: PRINTED BY WM. TYLER, BOLT-COURT. 1851.tOKDON: PRINTED BY WM. TYLERV BODT-COVRT.B 2 Mr. President and Gentlemen,—As soon as I had pro- ■mised to deliver a lecture at one of these evening meetings, I felt the usual first difficulty in such an undertaking—the difficulty of finding an appropriate subject of discourse. Then, thinking what might best befit the Professorship which it is my highest honour to fill, and to which, rather than to myself, I feel the task has been assigned, it seemed to me, that the office itself might be a fair theme. For a professor- ship of anatomy and surgery is rare, if not unique, in these times, and has been so for many years. I supposed that I should be able to trace its origin to some of the earliest periods in the history of English surgery, when first it began to be associated with sciences; I hoped to find in its records ■some materials of historic interest, some of Time's old mirrors, upon which, if our thoughts be directed aright, they maybe reflected in lessons of wisdom, which we may contem- plate to our own instruction, and which may pass on beyond us into the distant future. But in this I was disappointed. The double title of the Professorship is of recent date, and the events in which it had its origin have but little interest. The records of our predecessors, the Worshipful Company of Barbers and Chirurgeons, tell scarcely more than that, in 1645, Mr. Alderman Arris, a freeman of the •Company, and subsequently its Master, gave 241. a year, to the intent, and upon condition, that a human body should be once thereafter publicly dissected every year, and six lectures thereupon delivered in this hall; and this he did " through his great desire for the increase of the knowledge of chirurgery." Some years afterwards, a gift was received from Mr. John Oale, another freeman of the Company; and the lectureship came to be called Arris and Gale's. For a century follow-4 ing, lectures were regularly delivered by physicians ap- pointed by the Court of Assistants of the Company of Barbers and Chirurgeons. In the early history of the Professorship, there is little that needs repeating. The teaching of both anatomy and surgery seems to have been very ill maintained by both the surgeons and the physicians who were successively appointed by the Court of Assistants of the Company. Year after year, the master-surgeons attempted in vain to compel themselves to lecture upon sm-gery; and, at one time, these principal members of our Pi'ofession were so in- different to the teaching of anatomy, that, at a Court of As- sistants, it was resolved unanimously, " That every member of the said Court, who at any time thereafter should attend any of the lectures upon anatomy to be delivered in the theatre, should be entitled to, and receive the sum of 5s. out of the cash of the Company." It was just before this very cheap devotion of themselves to the personal encouragement of scientific teaching, that the Court had required their lecturer upon anatomy to give lec- tures upon surgery also. From this, therefore, we may be- lieve that the double office of Professor of Anatomy and Surgery arose. The double title was not given till 1803, when the Company of Surgeons, having acquired the title of a College by the Royal Charter, assumed a more appropriate dignity and order ; and, among their first acts, the Council regulated the Professoi'ships, and abolished the bounty of 5s. for listening to the Professors. When we look back on a time in the history of our science so barren as this; when we think of the time that was wasted, and of the energy misspent in trivialities (for the AVor- shipful Company were all this time very busy in their own affairs), we are apt to think hardly of such an age, and to suppose, that if the men of our generation had lived then, scientific surgery would have been now far advanced be- yond the state of childhood and uncertain progress. But, perhaps, in all such judgments of the past we may be very wrorg. In the early history of sciences, as in that of our organic life, there are periods of repose, brooding times, in5 trhicli the germs of knowledge show no sign of present life, "no change of outer form, but in which their powers seem to be gathering strength, or in which they wait for more genial times, when elder sciences may be prepared to prop and train them. And this may well have been the case with surgery. But, though the history of the Professorship seemed thus barren, yet both its name and its records suggested many thoughts that appeared worthy to be pursued ; and chiefly this;—that, under all variety of circumstances, surgeons have recognised the propriety, or even the necessity, of asso- ■ciating their study with anatomy. They have done this, whatever may have been the form and range of the anatom- ical science they could pursue ; w'hether it were limited to the dissection -of a human body once in a year, and to the public delivery of six lectures thereupon ; or whether, with its present larger span, it would comprehend the structures of all the animated occupants of the earth in all its ages, and the laws observed in all; or, with microscopic sight, would search to the extreme boundary of visible organic form ; or, with the help of chemistry, would pass even this limit, and dissever the elemental atoms of the organism. It is surely worthy of thought, that however widely anatomy has ranged, surgeons have claimed it, at least in chief part, as their province; theirs for labour, for intellectual exercise and recreation; but, above all, as they have believed, theirs for the safety and promotion of their more proper calling. Now, to a certain point, the necessity of the combination of anatomy with surgery would be very evident. As the artificer should know well the construction of that which he undertakes to repair, so should the surgeon know every line and mark of the body whose damages he must set right, whose errors in form or function he must correct, whose members he may need to mutilate with safety. But this has been said a thousand times, and never has been gainsayed ; it was in the conviction of this truth that Arris, in his great desire for the promotion of chirurgery, founded a lecture- ship upon anatomy; this, therefore, can be no subject of discourse.6 But, while every age lias thus recognised the necessity of combining anatomy with surgery, so far as its immediate application in practice may be necessary, in every age also, —at least in these latter times,—the seniors in surgery have doubted whether the novel anatomical pursuits of their juniors could increase their fitness for practice. In every age it has been said, " You go too far." It is not enough to answer to the seniors of our own day, that the same objection was made to them when they, in earlier times, passed the bounds of recognised utility, and that the event has jiroved the objection wrong. For it must be admitted that modern anatomy has adopted not only new methods, but evennew objects, of research j it hasnotonly extended itself largely in its recognised territory, but much more has passed into wholly new fields of inquiry; and in the facts and laws which it has discovered, especially with the help of the miscroscope and chemistry and large compari- sons, however interesting they may be to the student of pure science, it may be doubted whether there be anything that can contribute at all to the advancement of surgery : so that there may be ground for asking, whether the study of modern anatomy,—of that, I mean, which is pursued with the microscope, with chemistry, and with enlarged compa- risons of lower forms and types of structure,— either has been, or is ever likely to become, useful to those who would be surgeons. Let the affirmative to this question be my thesis ; let it be my endeavour to prove that there are things in the recent progress of anatomy, which it behoves every student of surgery to learn, if he would either promote his art or prac- tise with success. I know it may be very difficult to adduce such cases as those who would hold the negative of this commonly ask for,—cases in which single facts, connected with the recent discoveries of anatomy, are at once and directly applicable to the promotion of surgical practice. However, there are some of these. The recognition, by the microscope, of the na- ture of tumouts, is at once applicable to practice, by the de- termination which it may give for or against operations, whenportions of tlie tumours can be removed beforehand. So the examination of discharges from ulcers may be decisive of their character and suggestive of their appropriate mode of treatment. The examination also, by microscopic aid, of the contents of abscesses and cysts, may assist in the diagnosis of cases which, but for this microscopic help, would be yet more obscure. Again, the fact of the ordinary growth of bones by the ossification of fibrous tissues, (which could not be proved without the mi- croscope,) is applicable in surgery, by assuring us of the utility of periosteum in the repair of the diseases and inju- ries of bones; of its utility, I mean, for its own sake, as well as for the sake of the blood-vessels which it contains, and by means of which alone, it was supposed to administer to the nutrition of bones. So, the microscopic proof of the muscular structure of the arteries and veins, (though it has only confirmed the ti-uth maintained by Hunter,) and the proof of the proper character of their muscularity, and of their relation to various stimuli, have made us more sure of the uatural means for the arrest of hgemorrhage, and of the methods by vvhich we may assist them. I would be far from endeavouring to prove, that such ap- plications of the microscope as these are sufficient to justify the inculcation of a long and tedious course of study upon those who would practise surgery. Still, these facts must be allowed their proper weight; and whatever value they have should be added to that greater value, which is to be assigned to the improvement of the principles of surgery by the recent studies of anatomy. Let me, then, point out some of what I think we may call improvements in the prin- ciples of surgery which have been thus attained; and I will do this chiefly in relation to certain common expres- sions which we use, such as " modes of organization," " the constitutional origin of local diseases," and the like. Firit, in regard to the principle of the question whether we have any riglit to judge, by what we can observe in natural structures and their development, of what would be the progress of changes in any morbid structure. Doubtless, it has been always assumed that we may so judge ; but, except8 by tlie researches of minute anatomyj it has never been proved. Minute anatomy has, however, proved it by find- ing that all the structures) natural or morbid, are conformed to certain definite laws of development. After tracing, with minute inquiry, the development of the natural structures, it has found that, however diverse from them the outward form of any morbid growth maybe, it was in its earliest con- ditions, and is, in its elemental structures, like them, or not wholly dissimilar from them ; and that in its development it may have passed through stages comparable with each phase of the development of the natural parts. We cannot over- estimate the value of a principle like this. Unless it had been proved, I do not know that we could liave had the right, in any case, to assume what has been the progress of a morbid structure, when we find it in only one phase of its existence. But now, in whatever period we find a morbid growth, we may assume the previous stages and methods of its existence, knowing, by microscopic proof, that its deve- lopment must have been conformed to the laws which prevail in the development of normal growths. Then, with regard to the method of organisation or forma- tion of morbid structures, some idea of which must be pre- sent in our minds, in the consideration of nearly every case that appears before usbefore the development of cells was watched, it needed to be assumed that some- thing external to the forming mass controlled and directed it; something, that is, external to the mate- rials which were assuming shape, was supposed to be not only supplying or exciting a vital force in them, but even directing it and determining its mode and end. But, let any one examine such a process as that of the develop- ment of an ovum, and see there whether the appearance be not much rather like that of spontaneous change—a change worked out by a force which, whencesoever it be derived, is inherent and efficient in the materials themselves. He will find the whole mass of the ovum, or at least the focus of its activity, composed of cells; and these may be, to the sight, nearly alike, although the event proves that they have different properties. As he watches, he will see some among9 these similar cells arranging themselves in a median line, assuming the character of cartilage-cells, and becoming pre- sently the rudimental vertebral column ; others will be, at the same time, arranging themselves in rows, and assuming the function, and then more gradually the structure, of muscles; others among the same cells will become integu- ment and epithelium; others will be assuming the form of blood-corpuscles, and these will be ranged in the order of future blood-vessels, and will wait for the propelling force of the heart, formed of cells that were like themselves. All this time no blood-vessels are present; there does not appear one of those things to which surgeons were in the habit of referring as the sources of the force by which such changes are accomplished. There is here nothing but a mass of cells with some interposed material; and each cell developes itself to its own destiny and end. So, too, if any one traces the gradual development of the lymph or chyle into blood, he wDl watch the same kind of changes; he will find them, either as an homogeneous fluid, or as one turbid with minute molecular particles, becoming the seats of development of solid bodies; and these will gradually assume the more complicated character of nucleated cells; and then each will gradually acquire colour till it becomes a perfect corpuscle of the blood. There is not to be traced any source for that directive as well as formative power which has been so commonly referred to in explaining the process of or- ganisation. In short, all that we can see, in processes like these, puts us back upon the intrinsic properties of the ma- terials themselves, for the explanation of the various mani- festations of the formative force which they display. The formative force, whatever be its origin, we must assume to be but one ; and the various manifestations in which it is displayed, we must, I think, after such microscopic watching of its eff ecu, refer to the variety of tlie materials in which it is exercised. And, if this be so, we are bound to discard, both from physiology and the study of disease, all sucli expres- sions as " action of the blood-vessels," and " action of absorbents;" we can no longer, with these truths before us, speak of arteries as builders, or of absorbents as modellers.10 All these are but the apparatus by which the materials, so to speak, in their raw state, may be carried to and fro in parts that are themselves forming. Neither can we speak of the materials for organisation as being merely plastic and passive, as so much clay to be moulded by some external force. We can only speak of them as being self-organising, autoplastic, working with a force which, whencesoever it is derived, is efficient in themselves. The suggestion, which we derive from microscopic examin- ation, of the relation existing between the forms that are assumed and the previous composition of the materials that assume them, may indicate the true connexion between the minute anatomy and the minuter chemistry of disease, and may be followed out in some facts which have a direct bearing on the expressions we use concerning the constitu- tional origin of local diseases. It may be proved, for ex- ample, that an excretory organ will grow, actually grow, and increase both the bulk and weight of its substance, in direct proportion to the quantity of materials which it will be its office to excrete from the blood. For example, a lung or a kidney will so grow according to the quantities of the materials they are to excrete ; and it may be proved, at least of one of these, that the materials for excretion are present already formed in the blood, and are present before the increase of the organ by which they are to be excreted. From several such instances and probable analogies, it may be deduced as a general rule, especially for excretory organs, that their formation is consequent upon the formation in the blood of the materials which it will be their office to excrete. The same may be proved also of many abnormal struc- tures. The virus, for example, of the small-pox present in the blood induces, as a consequence, the formation of those morbid structures by which itself may be excreted; it is in- corporated in the pustules, and the blood is freed from it. So, in the case of vaccinia and other morbid poisons of the same kind, the series of events is, the existence of morbid materials in the blood, the consequent formation of organic structures ill which they are incoi-porated, and thence the clearing of11 the blood from them and their influence. We may trace the same general phenomena in other cases, in which we cannot have the test of inoculation as a proof that the materials, which were present in the blood, are incorporated in the new-formed morbid structure. But while the general phenomena are the same, we may be sure, from the close- ness of the analogy, that a similar series of events has oc- curred ; so that, as a general rule, it may be stated, that morbid materials present in the blood are naturally prone to lead to the construction of certain morbid structures, in which themselves may be incorporated. And as with normal structures so with these ; the morbid structures, incorporating the materials from the blood, have each a special form. The elemental forms, indeed,—the cells and nuclei, and the rest,—may not be always capable of distinc- tion ; but the general forms into which they are constructed are in each case peculiar. Thus, guided by what microscopic anatomy has discerned, and, in some measure, by what organic chemistry has sug- gested, we seem to be able to prove as principles for surgery, that the formation of morbid structures is, in a large class of cases, a process of organisation analogous in its method with that of the natural structures ; that the materials compos- ing them are, in the ordinary conditions of life, autoplastic, and are transferred from the blood into them ; and that the form of morbid structure which is assumed is determined by the composition of the morbid materials, although, doubtless, its characters may be, in some measure, modified by the manifold circumstances in which the materials are placed. Now, I might pass on to mention many other cases of the same kind, in which we seem to have attained to truer principles, or, at least, to clearer expressions of the principles of surgery; but in a temperature like this, some will have already asked, " What of all this? If all this be true, will it improve surgery?" To which I can only answer, If it will not, then all the teaching has been vain which we have heard for so many years, of the constitutional origin and nature oflocal diseases—all, at least, of that teaching which has not been a matter of vague rule for giving physic,—all12 has been in vain, altliough it has been the boast of English surgery since the time of Hunter, if the improvement of the principles which it involves, and of the expressions which are employed in enunciating them, can lead to no improve- ment in the practice of surgery. Let it not be supposed, in any case, that the improvement of the principles of surgery is of little importance, provided its prac- tice be secure. No one can more readily than myself acknowledge, that many things in practical siu-gery are more sure than any of its principles. The uses of opium, mercury, and iodide of potassium, in their ap- propriate cases, are much more certain, much clearer facts, than anything which can be assigned as a principle in sur- gery ; the times and methods of performing certain opera- tions, the ti'eatment of merely mechanical diseases, are much more sure than any surgical principles can be; and, if all the body of surgery consisted in things like these, it might be left for men of scientific taste to pursue its prin- ciples. But it is not so. I presume that no one is contented with the present state of surgery ; that there is no one who has not been driven back upon principles in cases of emer- gency, and upon them alone has rested for guidance as to what his course should be. Principles may be called merely forms of words ; but, if they are so, they are such words as, from having been at first only the expressions of our thoughts, have come to be our guides, and our guides in the most difficult passes of our professional calling. I have not now chosen peculiarlj' favourable ground for the proof of the good influence exercised by the recent pro- gress of anatomy upon surgery; for I have taken cases in which, if I may so speak, anatomy has stood alone, and not as a mere contributor with other methods of inquiry. For, really, the progress of such an art as surgery must depend mainly upon the combined influences of many methods of inquiry and observation, and upon the results which are thus obtained being brought to bear by the skilful and expe- rienced surgeon himself. Now, as contributing to that accurate knowledge, upon which the future progress of sur- gery must mainly depend, I suppose no one would hesitate13 to admit that minute anatomy, and the other means to which we may now have recourse, have been eminently useful. It would be impossible, indeed, to name a department of medi- cine or surgery to which the recent studies of anatomy have not contributed, at least, useful facts. The pathology of inflammation, the repair of injuries, the production and development of morbid growths, the whole of that vast field upon which medicine and surgery meet and mutually illus- trate one another; all these have been illustrated by direct observations with the modern methods of research ; and besides all these, one may safely state that the pathology of every tissue and organ of the body has been improved by our better knowledge of its natural structure, —a knowledge which could be obtained only by the methods of research which have been of late employed. We cannot, I think, in these times, hope to improve very much the practice of our predecessors, unless we adopt methods different from those which they have employed, and methods better than theirs. For years, the acutest intellects have been employed, with consummate industry and abun- dant opportunity, in endeavouring to determine some things of the most urgent interest in our art, but in vain; in vain, not for lack of abihty which we can hope to possess, but for lack of those means of which many are now in our power. If we would hope to advance surgery, it can only be by adding the facts which we may obtain by these means to those which our predecessors have accumulated. It would not be difficult to point out a large number of cases in which we may well hope for progress by these means. In regard to such a disease as cancer, for example, we want to know the proportion of cases in which cancer returns after operation, the average time that a patient lives upon whom no operation is performed, the average age, end all other circumstances connected with the disease; and I would venture to say, that whole volumes of statistics as yet recwded upon the matter, nay, that almost every statistical table yet printed is simply and wholly valueless for these purposes, and valueless, chiefly because of the non-use of thos*? means by which alone we can detect what is and what14 is not a cancer. The microscope must be used, with all other methods of research, before we can approach the knowledge of one of those truths for want of which we are constantly practising in doubt, still casting upon the patient the responsibility we ought to take upon ourselves, still leaving things unsettled which have been unsettled for centuries past. I will not venture to anticipate what may be the result when modern methods of research are more generally used, or, when those to whom they are now familiar come to be the masters in surgery. I would rather point out another utility of the modern study of anatomy, which, if those that I have spoken of were all fallacious, would yet be enough to justify our urging it upon all students of surgery—I mean its utility in forming and strength- ening the mind for the promotion of science. For, truly, none but the scientific mind can rightly use the means that are necessary for the promotion of such an art as ours ; none other can at all estimate either the difficulty or the certainty of attaining the knowledge of truth by true in- quiry; none other can anticipate or elude the fallacies which lie in every path ; none other can be at once, and justly, both confident and cautious ; none other can maintain in itself that intellectual strength which is requisite in our emergencies. We must not forget that the emergencies of surgery are more those of the mind than of the hand. The dexterous hand is indeed a noble gift; he who wears it, wears the best mark of human form, an admirable symbol and in- strument of humanity; and we may well be content that our art should derive her name from the hand, while in chi- rurgery its divine mechanism finds some of its best employ. But much better than the dexterous hand is the instructed mind, clear, strong, resolute, and pliant, experienced in struggles against difficulty,—such a mind as can be educated only in the intricacies of some hard science. We need not look to far distant times for proofs of the utility of the scientific study of anatomy in forming the mind for surgery. We need only remember that Hunter was succeeded, not by anatomists, but by surgeons. Except15 Sir Everard Home and Mr. Clift, none of his pupils professed to follow him in comparative anatomy or physiology ; but among his pupils were Cline, Astley Cooper, Abernethy, Blizard, Lynn,—all the great sur- geons of the last generation, all those who in their several schools taught surgery with the strength and clear- ness they had acquired in the study of the Hunterian phy- siology. So, too, in France : the genius of Bichat was effective, not in continuing a career of bold and glittering hypotheses in physiology, but in giving thought and well- directed energy to a great staff of surgeons, who in their time improved surgery in France under the influence of Bichat's mind, as those in England did under the guidanco of John Hunter. Even among ourselves, the chief places in surgery have been ever held by those who have been the chief students of anatomy. In every school every teacher observes the same among his pupils. And all this, I main- tain, is not because of the direct relation of utility between the two pursuits, but because the mind that will devote itself to science, and discipline itself in the school of truth, is that which can best profit by experience, and which is most apt in the promotion and daily practice of a calling such as ours. So that I repeat, if all those other advantages which I have mentioned, as accruing from the recent progress of anatomy, were fallacious, still this should be enough to show that the study of anatomy, in the comprehensive, laborious, and liberal spirit in which it is now pursued, will best instruct the mind for the promotion and the practice of surgery. The sum, then, ol the arguments that I would adduce in affirmation of my thesis, might be this ; that the recent pro- gress of anatomy has added many facts which are of direct and immediate advantage either in diagnosis or in the prac- tice of surgery; that, in addition to this, it lias illustrated many of those principles of surgery, upon which we must mainly depend for its future promotion, and for guidance in emergencies ; that, more than this, it has contributed facts improving every department alike of medicine and of surgery, facts upon which we must rely mainly for tlie elimination of soint of those thousand sources of fallacy which as yet obstruct our progress ; hut, most of all, I niain- c 216 tain, that modern anatomy has promoted surgery by pro- moting in surgeons the scientific mind. And now, gentlemen, while I speak of our science, let me not lose so fair an occasion as this to magnify our calling- Let us constantly remind ourselves, that, we who are daily practitioners of an art, may also, if we will, be students of a most noble science. Consider to what it admits us. By the science which we may pursue, we may be admitted to the knowledge of the laws which have been observed in the noblest creatures of the earth during all figes. We may discern that one type of structure upon which all of our own race, and those most kindred to us, have been formed since the foundation of the world ; amidst the countless varieties of construction, all perfect in their adaptation to their several ends, we may still trace the relation to one common pattern : and from that study of types we may rise to the idea of an archetype, even to that idea which we maj' reverently believe was present in the Divine Mind before man was made, or the earth for his habitation. Where, in any science, shall we find a law so vast in its full expression^ or so manifold in its examples, as that which we may study— the law, I mean, of the common origin of all embryos, in the division of germ-cells ; or, where one more expressive of the constancy and power of the Lawgiver than that of the transient imitation of lower forms by the higher, as they pass through the successive phases of their development ? Where shall we find a science so manifold, so large as oiirs ; which, amidst all the diversities of minds, can yet furnish to each materials for the exercise of its highest powers, and for the enjoyment of its very keenest pleasures? Then let us think, if these be the advantages of our science, what are its responsibilities ? The study of things so large as these should surely raise us above the level of common men. "What manner of men ought we to be?" we who are the recipients of the continuous revelation of God's will in these latest and most glorious of his works; we who can trace tlie unerring Hand guiding, through all ages, with few harmonious laws, all things that move on earth; we about whose path the gem:* of science lie, reflect- II17 ing w-ith unblemished lustre the light that shines on them from heaven ; we whose common duties may be in works of charity and alms-deeds. If I may speak according to the occasion and the time in which we are met, what should be ovu: work in the great jubilee of peace ? We cannot watch without emotion the rising desire for peace which, as with one voice, swells up now from all the nations of the earth. For in peace our science finds its most congenial atmo- sphere. In peace alone there can be that free communion of thought which is essential to its rapid progress; and in peace alone we can live in that tranqiuUity in which we may pursue science with a steadfast purpose. We might almost say, that the recent progress of anatomy and the growing desire for peace have been commensurate. There may seem, indeed, to have been an interval between their first beginnings; but men needed to forget war before they would love peace. The last fierce conflict had long closed the thunderstorm of war, and yet the subdued roll of angry passions might be heard: the earth had borne her fruits for many years, and had covered up the barren places that her master's rage laid waste, and yet men's hearts would burn against those that had been their foes ; and the child's early lessons were to hate those who had been the enemies of his father's generation, and to think that nobler honours could be gained in war than in any of the arts of peace. It was reserved for these last times that men should feel how lovely peace may be, 'and that in this our happy England they should meet in concord, owning their mutual needs and mutual duties; uniting as if they would strive to show what may be achieved when all the various powers bestowed on men can be combined ; those powers of which we might be fain to think one was given to each nation in perfection, that each might wear the symbol of one of the manifold perfections of their common source. And what should the men of our science do at such a time ? How may we best be grateful! Surely by consecrating, with all sincerity and singleness of pur- pose, ourselves and our calling to the highest uses of wliich we can be capable. However far our science may range,18 let us ever keep in view the utility of its applications.; for it is our singular privilege that we may, if we will, combine with the study of this science the practice of the most useful and benevolent of the arts; an art in which, when rightly exercised, when cleared from all avarice, alike of reputation and of wealth, there is nothing that any mind, however scrupulous, can detect which is degrading to the purest or most divine sentiments to which our nature can attain. Then, while by our utility we gain men's favourable opinion, let our science help, by her excellent beauty, to purify so- ciety from all that is shallow, unreal, or insincere; let her promote that true wealth of nations which is reckoned, not by arms, nor by diplomacy, nor by gold, but by wisdom, by generosity, by pure morals. Above all, let our science render homage to that Christian doctrine by which herself is purified; for its true guidance, let her show loving obedience; let her teach, by the example of our unchanging love for truth, that truth is in itself, and for its own sake, excellent, —a Paradise for the intellectual soul; so, through the paths of obedience and truth, our science shall guide men to the adoration of the Truth Himself. London: Printed by William Tyler, Bolt-court.