309 SCOLIOSIS. SYMPTOMS.—The symptoms of scoliosis are generally divided into the objective and subjective symptoms. Objective symptoms.—These vary very considerably. Sometimes the spine is bent to one side in a large single C-shaped curve, which may either occupy the entire vertebral column, or may be confined to the lumbar or donsal regions. Should a curvature of this kind be at all marked, it will be necessary for the adjustment of the centre of gravity for one or more compensatory curves to be formed in the opposite direc- tion, as otherwise the erect position could not be maintained. These compensatory curves have their curvature in the opposite direction to the main one, and are usually smaller in extent than the primary curve. They occur either at the upper or lower end of the main curve, generally at the upper. In the more usual variety, two curves are found with their convexities in opposite directions, so that the spine forms a more or less perfectly- shaped letter S. Of these, one is usually called the primary and the other the secondary curve. The primary curve cannot always be clearly distinguished, but a fair idea can generally be gained by considering the mechanism of the formation of the curvature. If due to an inequality in the length of the lower extremities, the primary curve will be in the lumbar or lower dorsal region, whilst that in the upper dorsal is merely compensatory; on the other hand, if the curvature be due to faulty position, the primary curve is usually in the upper dorsal region, whilst the compensatory curve is below it. When the primary curve is very marked there may be three or even more curves in the spine; the primary curve is then generally very acute^ and at either end of it there is a compensatory curve. This is usually the case in severe dorsal curvature, when there is a compensatory curve in the cervical and another in the lumbar region. In some of the rarer cases certain of the spinous processes may project markedly backwards; the case then requires careful examination in order not to confound it with tuberculous disease. Amongst the objective symptoms one of the most marked is the asym- metry of the thorax. The shoulder upon the side of the convexity is higher than its fellow; the intercostal spaces are considerably wider on that side whilst they are narrowed upon the side of the concavity. The spinous processes deviate from the middle line. The distance between- the lower ribs and the brim of the pelvis upon one side is much in- creased, whilst there is a deep fold in the corresponding situation upon the opposite side. The total body height is diminished. When there is much rotation of the bodies of the vertebrfe the thorax undergoes extensive deformity; the ribs on the side of the convexity are carried backwards whilst they travel in the opposite direction on the opposite side. The shape of the two sides of the thorax is therefore greatly altered. On the side of the convexity the vertical measurement of