TUBERCULOUS DISEASE. 347 adults, however, when the disease is not higher up than the mid-dorsal region and has apparently come to a standstill, steps may be taken after a few months to allow them to get about with the aid of a spinal support. These spinal supports are not efificient in disease of the mid- or upper dorsal region, and in these cases it is best to continue the rest in bed. Spinal supports, etc.—To enable the adult patient to get about when the disease is quiescent, a spinal support may be used when the disease is suitably situated; children, however, must be put into some form of apparatus in which, though still kept recumbent, they may be easily carried about and taken into the air. Phelps s box.—One of two forms of apparatus may be employed for this latter purpose, viz. either Phelps's box—or one constructed on his principles—or a double Thomas's splint. Phelps's box is a wooden tray made to fit the body of the patient, with two narrow troughs diverging from each other below to receive the lower extremities (see Fig. 133). The box should be somewhat broader than the patient, so as to allow for lateral pads, which wedge him in, while he lies upon other pads so arranged as to prevent undue pressure upon the curve. The floor of the tray is cut away opposite the buttocks so as to permit of defascation without taking the child out of the splint. The sides of the tray are about six inches high for the trunk and less for the legs; they are hollowed out opposite the shoulders so as to allow free play for the arms. There are vertical foot-pieces, to which the feet are bandaged, a pad, of course, intervening. The box should be about 18 inches longer than the patient, so as to leave a space above the head for elastic extension from bands beneath the chin and occiput (see Fig. 134) carried over the top of the splint. The patient is carefully wedged in with pads and bandaged to the splint. In this apparatus the child lies at absolute rest, and is easily carried about. Further, if the head extension be applied and the lateral pads Carefully wedged in, the box may be tilted up so that the patient may look out of the window, etc. Deffecation and micturition are performed without any disturbance. By undoing the bandages, the front, sides and limbs of the child are easily washed without moving him, and when it is necessary to wash the back, the apparatus is turned upside down on a bed, the bandages undone, and the splint lifted off the child, who is replaced in the reverse manner, and not by lifting him into the box. Children should be kept in this apparatus for at least two or three years. The whole apparatus Fig. 133.- Phelps's Box. The splint is here shown without the pads, etc. ; in the next Fig. it is shown in use. The holes in the foot- pieces and the slit in the upper end of the splint, through which extension and counter - extension can be made if desired, are seen here,' as also the hollows in the sides of the box over which the child's arms can lie.