DISLOCATIONS OF THE PHALANGES 49 the palm (see Fig. i6). Passive movements may be begun at the end of the first week. KiG. 19.—Forceps for Rkdl'Ction of Dislocations of the Thumb. The traction is made by these forceps in an exactly similar manner to that shown in the preceding figures. Some surgeons prefer to avoid an open incision and resort to tenotomy. If this be done it must be remembered that the structure to be divided is not the tendon .of the flexor brevis polHcis but the glenoid ligament. The division of the displaced glenoid ligament is best carried out as it lies upon the posterior aspect of the neck of the metacarpal bone, and the knife should be made to cut from the base of the phalanx upwards along the Fig. 20.—Division ok the Glenoid Ligament in Reduction of a Dislocation of the Thumu {dingramiiiatic). The lateral ligaments a remain intact while the glenoid ligament b is ruptured and a portion of it is carried up by the dislocated phalanx upon the neck of the metacarpal. This portion is being divide{J by the tenotome which is made to cut upwards along the fieck of the bone, i.e. from the head towards the base. neck of the metacarpal (see Fig. 20). The glenoid ligament will then be split vertically. The knife should be introduced from the dorsal surface of the thumb, just above and to one side of the centre of the base of the phalanx, avoiding the extensor tendon, which can usually be readily felt. After the ligament has been divided, the manipulations described above will generally suffice to reduce the dislocation. The subcutaneous incision, however, is somewhat difficult to carry out effectually, and cannot be recommended in preference to the open method. Similar procedures may be required for dislocations at other metacarpo- phalangeal joints. When the dislocation has remained unreduced for a long time, it will be necessary to remove the head of the metacarpal bone. This is quite a simple operation, and if sufficient bone be removed and passive movement be properly carried out, a satisfactory result will be obtained. It is very seldom necessary to remove any portion of the phalanx. PT. IV.