CHAPTER X. SPRAINS OF JOINTS. DEFINITION.—By the term " sprain" is understood an injury pro- duced in a joint when its movements are carried beyond their normal physiological limits or when the bones entering into its formation are deflected in some unnatural direction, without, however, undergoing actual dislocation. CAUSES.—These injuries may be caused by a great variety of accidents; the commonest are falls, which either carry flexion or extension beyond their normal limits or force the bones forming a joint in some wrong direction ; or twists such as occur when a patient suddenly turns round and, keeping the foot fixed, causes the femur to rotate forcibly upon the tibia. Sprains may also be caused by violent muscular action, but this is a much less frequent cause than those already mentioned. Various conditions predispose to sprains; amongst the most common are a previous injury of a similar nature which leaves a weak joint behind it, or anything, such as a deformity—for example, knock-knee, club foot, etc.—which places the joint at a mechanical disadvantage and alters the normal line of transmission of the body-weight. LESIONS.—The actual lesion which occurs when a joint is sprained varies considerably in different cases and is often difficult to determine accurately. Probably the chief -effect of the injury always falls first on the ligaments of the joint, and they are damaged to a more serious extent than any other structures entering into the articulation. In the mildest forms the ligaments are merely over-stretched; in others they may be slightly torn. In the more severe cases a portion of the capsule of the joint is ruptured, and one or other of the ligaments is torn wholly or in part from its attachment to the bone. In the most serious cases of all, portions of the bone itself may be detached along with the ligament. The amount of damage to the ligaments depends largely upon their form, strength, and structure; broad, thin, flattened ligaments are more often damaged than those that are comparatively thick and strong. Very