104 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. continues in spite of the insertion of drainage tubes, more vigorous measures must be taken, and these are practically the same as those already described for acute suppurative arthritis (see p. 96). Fortunately the affection is not, as a rule, as acute as after a penetrating wound of a joint, and simple drainage is generally sufficient to lead to a cure. OTHER FORMS OF INFECTIVE ARTHRITIS.—Infective arthritis may occur in various acute constitutional diseases, being most common in specific fevers, such as small-pox, scarlet or typhoid fever. A similar condition may also occur in dysentery or pneumonia, and it is one of the common phenomena met with in pyaemia or septicaemia. In the latter cases there is no difficulty in understanding how the affection occurs, but its relation to the specific fevers is not yet quite clear. Symptoms.—These more or less resemble those of the second type of gonorrhoeal arthritis; that is to say, the inflammation is usually acute or sub-acute, and it does not, except in the pyemic cases, necessarily end in suppuration. I71 the nonsuppurative forfn the question arises as to whether the disease is really set up by the specific organisms producing the fever, or whether it is mainly due to some constitutional tendency on the part of the patient. The problem is very much of the same nature as that in gonorrhceal rheumatism, and the symptoms are closely allied. The disease may be confined to one joint, but it not uncommonly occurs in several. It resembles gonorrhoeal arthritis moreover in that it does not exhibit the typical migratory character of ordinary acute rheumatism, and it not at all infrequently passes on into the condition of chronic effusion into the joint, so often met with in the third type of that affection. When one or more joints are affected, they are generally inflamed at the same time, or the inflammation in the second joint comes on before that in the first has subsided. In typhoid fever the hip joint is not infrequently affected, and a peculiar character of this affection is that spontaneous dis- location is very apt to occur; in fact, it may sometime happen during convalescence from typhoid fever that spontaneous dislocation of the hip occurs without any previous symptoms having called attention to the affection of the joint. When suppuration occurs the condition is generally very grave as it is practically one of pyaemia. Treatment.—This closely resembles that of gonorrhoeal arthritis and consists in the application of leeches and warm fomentations accompanied by rest in the early stages; this is followed by counter-irritation and pres sure as the inflammation subsides, and at a still later stage by massage and passive movement designed to get rid of adhesions. Should dislocation occur, as in the hip, no time should be lost in reducing it, and its re- currence should be guarded against by employing extension and suitable apparatus. The general condition of the patient must also be attended to. In the first instance, the treatment suitable for the disease which is the original cause of the trouble should be employed, while later on general tonic