98 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. the bone, the latter should be dissected out of the stump as far up as the joint above. Some surgeons advocate excision in these cases, but in our opinion the operation is to be strongly condemned, for it must be remembered that the joint is full of virulent organisms, and that, as the excision opens up the cancellous tissue, the organisms will find it extremely easy to pene- trate the bone, and to set up acute osteo-myelitis of the most severe type. It is of course true that, after the excision has been performed, an attempt may be made to disinfect the wound by sponging it over freely with undiluted carbolic acid; but, owing to the widespread distribution of the organisms, the attempt at disinfection very commonly fails, and the patient will then run the most serious risks. On the other hand, if the limb be removed well above the joint and quite wide of the infected region, the patient will run no such risks. When acute arthritis affects joints that cannot be removed by amputa- tion, as for example the sterno-clavicular, the temporo-maxillary, etc., the only alternative is to excise the articulation. When the joint has been opened up, the pus should be washed out and the articular cavity swabbed freely with undiluted carbolic acid before any bone is removed. After ten minutes or so have been allowed to elapse for the carbolic acid to produce its effect, a sufficient amount of bone is taken from the articular surfaces to lay the joint cavity freely open, and then, when the bleeding has been arrested, the raw surfaces should be sponged over again with the un- diluted acid. The cavity should -finally be packed with cyanide gauze impregnated with iodoform, and the skin incision left freely open. By operating in this way, a cavity is produced which corresponds rather to that left after opening an acute abscess than to an incision into a joint. This is quite feasible in the joints mentioned, whereas it is impossible in such joints as the knee, the elbow, etc., after excision. As a rule the case may be expected to do well, and should two or three days pass without infection of the medulla, recovery is usually assured. GONORRH(EAL ARTHRITIS.—During an attack of gonorrhoea, an inflammation of the joints clearly associated with that disease occasion- ally occurs. The affection is often rheumatic in type, and attacks not only the fibrous structures of joints but also various similar structures about the body, such as the plantar fascia and ligaments. Gonorrhoeal arthritis is a somewhat rare complication of gonorrhoea; it may affect one or more joints, and is not infrequently multiple. It is commonest in the knee; the ankle and the hip are also frequently affected, whilst almost any joint in the body may be attacked. It does not occur at any fixed period in the disease, but it is most usually met with between the third and sixth weeks. Pathology.—There is no obvious relation between the acuteness of the gonorrhoea and the occurrence of the articular affection, and the exact relation between the two diseases is somewhat obscure. When the