68 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. The flap of skin and fascia is then dissected up and turned backwards, and this exposes the front and inner part of the capsule of the joint. This structure should then be incised more or less horizontally about a quarter of an inch above the edge of the tibia, and the joint cavity freely opened. The patella is then pulled well over to the outer side, when the cartilage is easily exposed and its condition inspected. It will be necessary to determine whether the cartilage can be replaced in position and stitched there, or whether a portion or the whole of it should be removed. As a rule the best plan is to remove as much of the cartilage as can easily be reached through the wound. This is especially necessary if this struc- ture be split, when, as there is no chance of its uniting satisfactorily, the portion anterior to the rup- ture should be removed. Similarly, when the cartilage is torn away from its anterior attachment and its end lies curled up in the joint, there is no prospect of stitching it successfully into place, and a portion of it should be removed. In order to remove the cartilage, the knee should be somewhat flexed so as to increase the aper- ture in the capsule, and the cartilage seized and pulled forcibly forwards by a pair of tenaculum forceps; a tenotomy knife is inserted into the joint and made to divide the cartilage as far back over the inner tuberosity of the tibia as it can reach. As a rule, of course, this does not remove the whole cartilage, a small portion near the posterior attachment being generally left behind, but it is found by experience that this does not interfere with the subsequent mobility of the limb. Indeed, the movements of the joint are not impaired by the removal either of portions or practically of the whole of the cartilage, and the patient appears to get on quite as well without this structure as with it. When there is merely detachment of the convex border of the cartilage from the tuberosity of the tibia, an attempt may be made to promote union between the cartilage and the tibia by scraping the detached surface of the former with a knife, and then securing it by three or four fine catgut stitches to the periosteum over the margin of the inner tuberosity. Should there be any trouble in doing this, or should the stitches cut out after their insertion, there need be no hesitation in excising the cartilage instead of wasting time over unsuccessful attempts to refix it. It is well to carry out the whole of the operation under irrigation with a 1-8000 sublimate solution, and at the end of the operation the joint should be thoroughly flushed out with this, so as to remove any clots; the incision in the capsule should be accurately sutured with fine catgut. The flap is then laid down and the wound stitched up without a drainage tube. Fig. 29. — Incision for removal of the internal Semilunar CARTfLAGE. The thick line indicates the incision marking out the skin flap, the dotted one that through the capsule of the joint.