l62 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. necessary to cut down upon the thickened and painful bone, gouge a hole in it and seek for an abscess as recommended for osteitis and abscess of bone (see Part III.). This treatment usually completely relieves the pain even though pus be not present. In bony anchylosis accompanied by deformity the condition cannot be remedied without dividing the union, and as a rule, it is necessary to remove a certain amount of bone before the limb can be brought into proper position. In a knee, for example, which has undergone anchylosis in the flexed position, it may be necessary to take out a wedge to allow of straightening the limb. In remedying a faulty position of this kind it must be remembered that tendons and other structures around the joint have also altered in length and may therefore offer obstacles to the proper replacement of the bones after the latter have been divided. If these structures be not dealt with, it may be necessary to take away an undue amount of bone before the limb can be brought straight, and this may cause material shortening. Hence, the best procedure is to first of all remove rather less bone than is probably necessary to get the limb straight, and, after the limb has thus been loosened, it is quite easy to put the tendons and fascial structures on the stretch, and to divide any that require it. Firm extension is then made so as to stretch the soft structures, when, if necessary, more bone may be removed. It is, how- ever, generally found that, after dividing the tight structures and employing steady traction, the displacement may be overcome without the removal of much bone. When the limb has been straightened, it is well to introduce a wire, a screw, or a peg, in order to keep the bones in close apposition. It is important that this operation should not be done too early and that it should not be performed until the growth of the limb is nearly complete, as otherwise, considerable shortening and arrest of development may result. It is practically impossible to avoid encroaching upon the region of the epiphyseal line in any of these operations that involve taking out a wedge, and serious distortion of the limb from partial arrest of development may result. (y) Cases of bony anchylosis where a movable joint is required.—A typical example of this is the elbow joint, in which excellent movement may be obtained after excision, provided that the anchylosis has not lasted long enough to have led to complete atrophy of the muscles around the joint. 2. Fibrous anchylosis between the ends of the bones, and, 3. Fibrous adhesions inside or outside the capsule. Here fair movement may often be obtained without operation. When, however, there are fibrous adhesions between the ends of the bones, and the position is very faulty, it may be necessary to cut down upon and remove portions of the articular ends, but, with this exception, improvement can be obtained and almost complete restoration of function can often be got by breaking down the adhesions. The great mistake made in treating these cases is