THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 2l6 been thoroughly exposed. The steps of this procedure are identical with that for arthrectomy (see p. 209). The margin of the quadriceps tendon is defined below, and then the supra-patellar pouch and the whole of the anterior portion of the synovial membrane, including the patella with the fatty pads below it, are clipped cleanly away. The knee is fully flexed, the lateral ligaments are divided, and the synovial membrane over each side of the joint is removed. After the crucial ligaments have been divided and the knee fully flexed, the end of the femur can be protruded through the vertical slit in the extensor tendon and its articular surface removed. In doing this the limb is held absolutely horizontal, and the saw is applied vertically at the upper limit of the articular cartilage on the front of the femur. The line of bone section should be at right angles to the long axis of the limb and not to that of the femur. As the posterior surface of the femur is reached, care must be taken to see that the structures in the popliteal space are stripped well up out of the way of harm, and are protected if necessary by a suitable spatula. When the end of the femur has been removed, the posterior part of the capsule is easily separated and removed, much in the manner described for arthrectomy (see p. 211), and the head of the tibia is then protruded through the wound and its articular surface sawn off. In doing this the knee must be flexed, the foot being placed flat upon the table so that the leg is vertical; the saw is applied at right angles to the long axis of the tibia, and about half an inch of the upper end is removed. The wound is now thoroughly examined to see that none of the capsule is left behind. Any portions of articular cartilage remaining are carefully clipped away, any projecting edges are removed with bone pliers, and the cut surfaces of bone are examined to see whether there be any tuber- culous deposits in them ; these if present must be thoroughly scooped out, together with a portion of the healthy bone around. The bleeding is now arrested and the wound stitched up, but before doing so it is well to wire the femur to the tibia ; this is not absolutely essential, but it keeps the limb in position while the dressings are being applied, and it serves to prevent any antero-posterior dislocation of the bone surfaces. It must be remembered that the divided surface of the tibia is much broader than that of the femur, and if, therefore, the anterior margins of the two bones be brought into apposition, the posterior surface of the tibia will project markedly into the popliteal space, and when the limb is placed upon the splint, pressure may be exerted upon the popliteal artery, and gangrene of the limb may result. The posterior margins of the bones should therefore be accurately adapted, and it is with the view of securing this that fixation of the bones is advisable. Some trouble may, however, be caused from the extreme softness of the bone, which allows the wires or pegs to cut through considerably, and therefore great care must be taken to keep the limb in proper position after the wire has been introduced.