THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE. 342 generally make their way to the surface on the anterior or lateral aspects of the bodies, and, having reached the surface, they spread beneath the periosteum and lead to superficial caries. They may also spread towards the adjacent intervertebral cartilage and destroy it either completely or in part. It is only in rare cases that they extend backwards and reach the posterior surface of the body. These deposits destroy the body of the vertebra in which they occur more or less completely, while the weight of the trunk causes the vertebra above to sink down, and thus more or less acute curvature results. When a single vertebra only is destroyed t^ie curvature is very acute. Not uncommonly however two or three adjacent bodies are attacked simultaneously, the result being that the curvature is not so abrupt and involves three or more vertebrae. Perhaps the most common condition is for one or two bodies to be more or less completely destroyed by primary deposits in their interior and, secondarily to .this and as a consequence of periosteal extension, for the intervertebral cartilages of several adjacent vertebrae to disappear, thus leading to a gradual curve affecting a number of vertebrae, with a more acute curve in the centre due to the complete destruction of one or more vertebral bodies. When the deposits reach the surface they often lead to the formation of an abscess either at the sides of the vertebral column or, should they extend backwards, in the spinal canal itself. The deposits in the interior of the bone occur chiefly in children, are less frequently associated with abscess than is superficial caries, and are accompanied by acute curvature and other displacements. In these cases the destructive processes are to a large extent due to osteitis and absorption of the inflamed bone. The inflammation is set up in the first instance by the tuberculous disease, and is then kept up by the pressure which is partly due to the weight of the head and upper part of the spinal column causing bending of the body forwards at the seat of the disease, and partly to the contraction of the muscles surrounding the spine, which keep the inflamed parts in constant and firm contact; the absorption is mainly due to this. This tonic muscular con- traction is of very great importance, because, unless measures be taken to counteract it, the curvature may go on in spite of apparatus which apparently supports the upper part of the spine. When the disease primarily attacks the transverse or spinous processes, it usually commences as a superficial caries quickly followed by abscess. SYMPTOMS.—The symptoms of tuberculous disease of the spine are well known and we need not go into them in any detail. In the early stages there is uneasiness and aching in the back, sometimes neuralgic pains around the body or down the limbs, difficulty in bending, difficulty in going down- stairs, the occurrence of curvature followed by abscess, nervous symptoms from pressure on the spine leading to pain, abnormal sensations in the limbs and ultimately paraplegia. Rigidity of the spine is one of the most im- portant early symptoms, and is, as has already been said, due to the tonic