SCOLIOSIS. 325 Spinal supports.—In order to prevent the increase of the curvature, a support of some kind is invaluable, and perhaps upon the whole the best is a suitably-moulded poroplastic jacket strengthened with light steel rods, moulded to the thorax during extension of the spine and laced in position. This will take off the superincumbent weight of the thorax and will often relieve the pain, especially that caused by the narrowing of the intercostal spaces or the approximation of the ribs to the crest of the ilium. Even in these cases muscular exercises are of value and, if carried out against resistance, they are particularly calculated, by strengthening the muscles, to relieve the pain from which the patient suffers. Very little hope however can be held out that any amount of muscular exercises or stretching of the spine will produce much effect upon the curvature. Theoretically it is of course possible that sufficiently prolonged extension of the spine will influence its shape, but practically this is almost impossible. (d) The scoliosis of adult life.—The condition met with here is precisely similar to that in the group of cases just described, except that the bone changes are perhaps more marked and are more permanent. The treatment is identical wqth that described above. APPENDIX. MEDICAL GYMNASTIC EXERCISES.^ The following system of exercises is designed to improve the general health, to remove some of the causes of curvature, and to cure or improve the deformity. For the first object they are useful for a large number of various conditions occurring in individuals of almost any age, not necessarily the subjects of spinal deviations. It is not intended that every case shall perform all the exercises. The system is intended to present rather a materia medica of exercises, from which the surgeon can prescribe those which he considers best for each case. The cases will always have a large number of symmetrical exercises, but the number and kind of asymmetrical e.xercises will be prescribed according to the degree and direction of the deformity. Generally the exercises should be performed twice daily for a period not usually exceeding half an hour. Children must be made to learn the exercise gradually, two or three new ones being added at each lesson as the previous ones are learnt and well done. The chief advantage of the following system is, that the essential part of it may be done at home. Before practising the exercises, how- ever, the patient and one of his relations, if the patient is a child, should be 1 These are taken verbaliiii from Dr. Percy Lewis' book on The Relief and Cure of Spitial Curvatures, London, 1897. The small illustrative figures are derived from the same source.