SPRAINS. 77 severe injury, indeed, is required to damage these latter, and it is more common to find them detached from their insertion into the bone. In joints furnished with an intra-articular fibro-cartilage this structure may be partially or entirely detached—a condition which gives rise to the series of symptoms already referred to in dealing with dislocations of the semilunar cartilages of the knee. In the most severe forms of sprain the injury is not limited to the ligaments but may affect the muscles surrounding and strengthening the joint, which may be actually torn from their attach- ments. RESULTS.—The results of these injuries will vary with the severity of the lesions. In any case the immediate effect is the occurrence of pain, and more or less swelling of the joint rapidly ensues. Unless the case be efficiently treated, a feeling of weakness and pain in the joint will be present on movement, which may last for a long time or may even be permanent. In the milder cases, when the ligaments are stretched rather than torn, there is comparatively slight swelling immediately after the accident, but a synovitis may subsequently occur and may give rise to much trouble. In the more severe cases there is usually considerable effusion of blood at the time of the injury, and this will produce a certain amount of im- mediate swelling of the joint; this swelling is increased later on by the occurrence of synovitis. The remote effects of sprains result partly from this synovitis and partly from the imperfect union that not uncommonly occurs in the torn fibres of the capsule. The latter condition is especially troublesome later in the course of the case, and gives rise to that feeling of weakness which is so common a result of neglected sprains. Unless the synovitis be actively treated it may lead to a permanent weakness of the joint from over- distension of the capsule, or from adhesions between various parts of the synovial surfaces, which, although fibrinous at first may organise into fibrous tissue, and thus obliterate a portion of the joint cavity. It is .also well to bear in mind that, when there is considerable htemorrhage, the blood is very slowly absorbed from the articular cavity in which it remains fluid for a considerable time. Another result of a neglected sprain also deserves mention. When a considerable portion of the capsule of the joint, or a broad flattened ligament has been ruptured, the torn portion may not unite satisfactorily, but may project into the joint, and may become nipped between the articular surfaces during movement. This will give rise to serious disability. TREATMENT.—From what has been said it is evident that a sprain of a joint is a serious matter, and should not be lightly treated, as the persistent trouble which so frequently follows the injury is undoubtedly due to imperfect appreciation of the ill results that follow neglect. The common saying that a sprain of a joint is worse than a fracture is explained by the fact that the care devoted to a fracture is seldom