84 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. granted that asepsis has been attained, and the dressing need not again be changed for four or six days, should no other indication arise in the meanwhile. The limb should be kept at rest until the wound has either healed entirely or is quite superficial. As soon, however, as this has happened^ the splint should be left off, and measures taken to subdue any synovial effusion, or to break down any adhesions that may have resulted from the synovitis. In other words, massage and passive movement, gentle at first but gradually increasing in duration and in vigour, should be performed as has already been described for the treatment of sprains. 2. Clean-cut Wounds.—When the wound into the joint is of con- siderable size, an inspection of the articular cavity can be obtained by retracting the edges. The injury is caused by some sharp instrument, such as a knife or an axe. Under these circumstances it is necessary to assume that in the large majority of cases the joint has been infected, however slight the amount of infection may be ; the treatment must therefore differ materially from that just described. First of all the skin must, of course, be thoroughly shaved and dis- infected, whilst the wound in the soft parts must be efficiently cleansed. To do this it is best first to wash the wound out thoroughly with strong mixture, and then to apply undiluted carbolic acid to all its recesses. To prevent these strong antiseptics gaining access to the interior of the joints the wound in the capsule must be shut off by a piece of sponge placed over it at the bottom of the wound. After the superficial wound has been disinfected, the joint cavity must be cleansed; if necessary to ensure com- plete access, the opening must be enlarged. It usually suffices to wash out the joint with a i-iooo solution of corrosive sublimate. All the recesses should be freely irrigated for quite ten minutes with this solution, by means of which blood-clots are also washed out. Immediately after this, irrigation with a 1-8000 sublimate solution should be substituted for the stronger lotion, so as to dilute and wash it away. It is always well to avoid the use of carbolic lotion; it possesses no particular advantages over the sublimate in its germicidal action, while it is far more likely to irritate; its use is therefore distinctly contra-indicated unless there be extensive and obvious soiling of the joint, when the undiluted acid may have to be used. A large drainage tube is next introduced into the joint, partly with the object of removing the synovial effusion which is certain to occur from the irritation of the antiseptic, and partly in case the disinfection should not be complete. If the external wound be large, one or two catgut stitches may be inserted at each angle, but the wound should be left open through- out the greater part of its extent; its edges will generally fall fairly well together except where the drainage tube is. The tube should be of a very large size, as if a small one be employed, it may readily become obstructed by lymph or clot and so fail to drain the fluid from the joint. The usual,