46 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. DISLOCATIONS OF THE METACARPAL KONES. Dislocation of the metacarpal bones from those of the carpus is also of extreme rarity. When it occurs the metacarpal bones are usually displaced backwards. Treatment.—The dislocation should be reduced by the employment of traction and pressure under an anaesthetic, and, after the bones have been got into position, the hand should be placed upon a splint for a week and evaporating lotions employed. Massage and passive movements of the fingers and wrist should be begun from the first, as otherwise there is a marked tendency to stiffness and interference with movement, especially in elderly subjects. DISLOCATIONS OF THE PHALANGES. The phalanges may be dislocated either from the metacarpal bones or from one another. DISLOCATION AT THE INTER-PHALANGEAL JOINTS gen- erally results from falls or blows upon the outstretched finger. The dis- placement is generally lateral, although it is sometimes backwards, and not at all uncommonly the dislocation is incomplete. Treatment.—Reduction is readily effected by exerting traction upon the tip of the finger and bringing the phalanx into its proper line. After re- duction, the digit should be put on a tin finger-splint Fig. i6. —Tin Finger (see Fig. 16) and evaporating lotions may be em- Splint. The oval portion i i . i ^ ^^■ t-. ■ lies in the palm, while the ploycd to rcduce the swellmg. Passive movement finger is received into the c n i. j 11 ^-j trough. should be begun irom the first and regularly practised, so as to prevent any possibility of stiffness. DISLOCATION AT THE METACARPO - PHALANGEAL JOINTS is rare except in the thumb and the little finger, in the former of which the accident is not at all uncommon. As there are special difficulties in connection with the reduction of dislocations of the thumb we shall describe this somewhat more fully. Dislocation of the thumb.—Dislocation of the first metacarpo- phalangeal joint usually occurs from blows or falls upon the abducted thumb. The extremity of the thumb is driven backwards, so that the anterior ligament is overstretched and ruptured; the base of the first phalanx passes backwards, and the head of the metacarpal projects for- wards through the rent in the anterior part of the capsule, the two sesamoid bones near the insertion of the flexor brevis poUicis, embracing the neck of the bone, one on either side. The ruptured glenoid ligament is carried backwards on to posterior surface of the neck of the metacarpal, and forms the great obstacle to reduction. Treatment.—In a recent case, reduction is attempted by trying to dis- engage the head of the metacarpal bone from the flexor brevis which