123 TUBERCULOSIS. Operative treatment is desirable in the following cases : when ciironic suppuration occurs early; when the disease is localised to one part of the synovial membrane or the bone; in many cases at a later stage, when there is a deposit in the bone with general synovial thickening; in cases of diffuse synovial thickening when expectant treatment has failed to arrest the progress of the disease; when a better functional result can be obtained by operative means than can be hoped for by expectant treatment; in adults with deformities which can be remedied only by operation; in many cases complicated by the presence of septic sinuses; in certain cases where phthisis is present, or^where the general condition is such as to require immediate and complete removal of the local disease; in adults more frequently than in children; in the poor more often than in the rich. Expectant treatment should be employed in cases of diffuse synovial disease without suppuration, where none of the indications already given for immediate operative interference are present; in children when there are osseous deposits in parts that cannot be reached without excision, as for example in the hip joint; and in some cases where septic sinuses are present. Much will also depend upon the joint affected; for example, in the hip joint expectant treatment should be presevered with much longer than in the more easily accessible joints. Many circumstances will influence the choice of the particular operative method to be employed. The principal are the age of the patient, his general condition and the state of the joint itself. With regard to the last factor, the chief points are the presence or absence of chronic suppura- tion, the presence or absence of sinuses, and the distribution and character of the local disease. The occurrence of chronic suppuration in connection with tuberculous diseases of bones and joints greatly increases the gravity of the case, and exercises an important influence on the treatment. It usually indicates a progressive form of the affection, whilst the abscesses, if large, and if not treated asepticaliy, may expose the patient to very great danger from decomposition of their contents and septic inflammation of their walls. So impressed are some surgeons with the unfavourable character of these cases that they recommend radical operations, such as excision or amputation, whenever there is suppuration. This is however going rather too far, and there is no question that, in certain instances, the disease may be recovered, from without such severe measures if the abscess be treated by washing it out and injecting iodoform and glycerine on the lines laid down already in speaking of the treatment of chronic abscess (see Part I., p. 247), In certain joints, in which the results of operation are functionally bad, it is as well, when the condition of the patient is otherwise good, to employ palliative measures before resorting to more radical ones. This is particularly applicable to disease of the hip joint.