THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE. the accident is one of considerable gravity owing to the risk of septic spinal meningitis. Treatment.—The treatment of these wounds must be conducted on the same lines as those for penetrating wounds elsewhere. If the opening in the skin be small, made with a clean instrument, and seen at once, it will probably sufifice in most cases to disinfect the skin and the orifice of the wound and to apply an antiseptic dressing, much as for a punctured wound of a joint (see p. 82). When, however, symptoms of hjemorrhage appear, it will be necessary to perform laminectomy, arrest the hfemorrhage and remove the clot. BULLET WOUNDS.—The chief penetrating wounds of the spine are however bullet wounds, and almost any injury may be caused by them. Perhaps the most common /orm is a bullet imbedded in the body of the vertebra; the question of the treatment then becomes a serious matter. In other cases the bullet may fracture the neural arches and cause compression of the cord, just as in a simple fracture; or again, it may perforate the spinal canal and divide the cord. Treatment.— When the iamince are injured immediate operation is required to remove the fractured bone pressing on the cord, to clean up the wound and to arrest any haemorrhage. Wheti hozvever there are signs of division of the cord the case is very different. The symptoms may be due either to actual division of the cord by the bullet, but more often they are due to the bullet perforating the body of the vertebra and driving backwards portions of bone which either completely crush the cord or press on it and partially destroy it. The treatment here is practically that for fractured spine, but laminectomy is required more often. In two or three instances laminectomy has been performed and the broken-up fragments of bone in front of the cord removed with fairly satisfactory results. In other cases however the cord has been found irretrievably damaged, when of course the operation is useless. There is no definite indication as to which of these injuries is present, unless it be the more partial character of the lesions after fracture than after complete division of the cord. Considering how- ever the absolutely fatal nature of the injury, it seems to us that in the majority of cases it is well to perform laminectomy as early as possible with the view of ascertaining what the condition is; if the symptoms be found to result from pressure of portions of the body, it will fully justify the operation, whereas if the cord be found irretrievably damaged, no benefit will result, and the end of the case will be the same as if no operation had been performed.