TUBERCULOSIS. 129 Besides mobility, another question of the highest importance has to be considered, namely, the subsequent development of the limb', this is a matter of such immense importance in children as to practically outweigh all other considerations. In this respect arthrectomy is far more favourable than excision. There should be no interference with the growing portions of the bones in a properly performed arthrectomy unless a deposit actually involves the epiphyseal line, and there should be consequently no arrest of development. In excision in children, on the other hand, the results in this respect are very bad, and in them excision—of the knee joint particu- larly—is contra-indicated, as it is practically impossible to do a satisfactory excision without interfering with the subsequent growth of the limb. Even after excision of the hip very serious shortening may occur; in some cases indeed there has been as much as eleven inches by the time the child has attained adult life. The conclusion with regard to the choice between arthrectomy and excision which seems warranted by all the facts is that arthrectomy is the proper radical operation up to sixteen or eighteen years of age, and excision is the operation of choice after that. Exceptions as regards arthrectomy in adults may be made in connection with the diseases of certain joints, particularly the ankle; these will be dealt with later. SPECIAL POINTS IN THE TREATMENT OF THE VARIOUS STAGES. We shall now summarise shortly the methods of treatment most suited to the different local conditions already enumerated (see p. 113). 1. Localised tuberculous deposits in the bone which have not yet reached the joint. Unfortunately these cases are but rarely met with in practice, mainly because the patient does not realise that there is anything serious the matter until the joint itself becomes affected. Even when such cases do come under observation, it is extremely difficult to recognise the deposits at an early stage. The chief points in the diagnosis have already been referred to, namely, a localised thickening of some part of the epiphyses of the bones entering into the joint, unaccompanied by marked pain or tenderness, and occurring after some slight accident in a patient who either has a tuberculous family history or is the subject of tuber- culosis elsewhere; this thickening tends to increase steadily. Cases in which the existence of the deposits can be diagnosed do sometimes come under notice sufficiently early, and then the point for consideration clearly is whether it is possible to remove the deposit before the joint is affected. In a superficial and easily accessible joint very successful operations of this kind have been frequently done. It is essential that the joint itself should not be opened, as otherwise it may be infected during the removal of the deposit. The incisions should therefore be planned so as to avoid wounding the synovial mem- brane ; at the same time, however, they must be sufficiently free to PT. IV. I