INJURIES OF THE SPINE. 283 to find the line of fracture running obliquely from above downwards and forwards through the body of the vertebra, the upper part of the spine being carried forwards, and the posterior edge of the lower portion of the vertebra forming a sharp projection over which the cord is stretched and bruised. Accompanying the fracture there may be dislocation of the articular processes from one another, and it is well to bear this in mind in attempts at reduction, because they may form the obstacle to the replacement of the fracture. Fracture-dislocation occurs most commonly in the lower cervical and the dorso-lumbar regions. The spinous processes and the laminae may also be fractured indepen- dently of the body, either from violent flexion of the spine or, more usually, from direct violence. The gravity of a case of fractured spine depends upon the damage done to the spinal cord, which in its turn depends upon the amount of displacement that has occurred. The cord is always acutely flexed over the projecting lower part of the body of the fractured vertebra, and if the flexion be great, the cord may be most severely damaged ; in some cases it is so pulped up that its structure is unrecognisable and it is merely represented by a tube of dura mater containing a mass of blood-clot and disintegrated nerve elements. It is important from the point of view of the efiicacy of operation to remember that the lesion of the cord is generally caused, not by continued pressure, but by sudden contusion at the time of the injury, so that the chances of doing good by reducing the fracture- dislocation or by removing bone pressing on the cord are really very slight indeed. Symptoms,—Fractures of the spine are accompanied by a series of symptoms due to the damage that the cord has sustained, which vary in nature and severity with the situation of the fracture and the amount of the damage. The only symptoms directly due to the fracture are the deformity and the mobility, crepitus, etc., common to other fractures. As regards the deformity it is practically only noticeable in cases of fracture of the body with*^ dislocation forwards, and the degree existing when the case is seen is not any measure of the amount which has existed, or of the damage done to the spinal cord, for it is not at all uncommon for the deformity to disappear, or at any rate to become distinctly less, when the patient is laid flat upon his back. This disappearance of the deformity does not however necessarily relieve the nervous symptoms at all, as they are caused by the damage done to the cord at the time of the accident, which is practically irreparable. In cases of fracture of the spinal arch the deformity is seldom particularly noticeable, but in some cases crepitus and mobility can be made out by lateral pressure on the spines. In fractures of the bodies, on the other hand, mobility and crepitus are usually absent. There is generally more or less complete paralysis of motion and sensation in the parts supplied by the nerves coming off from the cord at or below