TUBERCULOUS DISEASE. 353 should be looked for, more especially the presence of pus in front of the cord, or the presence of thickened dura mater; in the latter case the dura should be slit down from behind and the pressure thus relieved.^ Pus must be evacuated if present; spicules of bone should be removed, and any soft granulation tissue or cheesy material in front of the cord scraped away. In these cases the laminas and spinous processes must be removed altogether; they would, if replaced, be liable to become affected with tuberculous disease. Abscess.—We have already described the treatment of chronic abscess generally (see Part I., p. 248); in the case of spinal disease we usually limit it to the plan of scraping and washing out the abscess, injecting iodoform and glycerine, and stitching up the skin wound again. It is only in abscess connected with posterior disease, especially of the spines, or in some rare cases of cervical abscess, that we can dissect out the abscess wall and deal with the diseased bone. The abscess should be opened on the one hand at a point which gives the freest access to the whole cavity, and on the other at one as far removed as possible from sources of con- tamination, so that, should union by first intention fail, the dressings are not likely to be soiled. The best situation for opening a retro-pharyngeal abscess is behind the sterno-mastoid; it should never be opened from the throat. An incision is made parallel to the upper third of the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid muscle, above the point of exit of the spinal accessory nerve; after dividing the deep fascia, the muscle is lifted up, and the finger or a blunt instrument is gradually insinuated behind the vessels and in front of and close to the transverse processes and bodies of the vertebrae, until the abscess cavity is reached and the pus let out. A sharp spoon is then introduced and the abscess wall thoroughly scraped, care being taken not to perforate the pharyngeal wall; sometimes the actual focus of disease in the spine can be reached and a sequestrum or a caseous deposit removed. A small quantity of iodoform and glycerine is then injected, and the wound stitched up. Should the cavity fill up again or should healing fail to occur, it is easy to open up the wound and repeat the process or insert a tube. The hair must be shaved for a good distance around. When the disease is in the lower cervical region and the abscess is in the posterior triangle, the greater part of the wall can usually be removed, and the affected bone scraped or gouged away. In clearing out dorsal or lumbar abscesses, the narrow channel through which the pus has passed backwards should be thoroughly opened up, and the whole cavity cleared out. In psoas abscess, the best incision is just internal to the anterior superior spine; if necessary a second incision can be made further back over the crest of the ilium, in order to facilitate access to 1 If the dura mater be left open, great care must be taken for the first few days to prevent any excessive escape of the cerebro-spinal fluid. The patient should lie on his face with the head low and the foot of the bed raised on blocks, PT. IV. Z