272 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. " If the bones prove to be deeply carious, the phers or gouge must be used with the greatest freedom. The metacarpal bones are next dealt with on the same principle, each being closely investigated, the second and third being most readily reached from the radial, the fourth and fifth from the ulnar, side. If they seem sound, the articular surfaces only are clipped off, the lateral facets being removed by longitudinal application of the pliers. " The trapezium is ne.vt seized with forceps and dissected out without cutting the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, which is firmly bound down in the groove on the palmar aspect, the knife being also kept close to the bone so as to avoid the radial. The thumb being then pushed up by an assistant, the articular end of the metacarpal bone is removed. Though this articulates by a separate joint, it may be affected, and the symmetry of the hand is promoted by reducing it to the same level as the other metacarpals. " Lastly, the articular surface of the pisiform is clipped off, the rest being left if sound, as it gives insertion to the flexor carjn ulnaris and attachment to the anterior annular ligament. But if there is any suspicion as to its unsoundness, it should be dissected out altogether, and the same applies to the process of the unciform. "The only tendons divided are the extensors of the carpus, for the flexor carpi radialis is inserted into the second metacarpal below its base, and so escapes. Only one or two small vessels require ligature. Free drainage must be given. The hand and fore-arm are put up on the well- known splint of Sir J. Lister, with the cork support for the hand, which helps to secure the principal objects in the after-treatment—viz., frequent movements of the fingers—while the wrist is kept fixed during consolidation. " Passive movement of the fingers is begun on the second day, whether the inflammation has subsided or not, and continued daily. Each joint should be flexed and extended to the fullest extent possible in health, the metacarpal bone being held quite steady to avoid disturbing the wrist. By this means the suppleness gained by breaking down the adhesions under chloroform is maintained. "Pronation and supination, flexion and extension, abduction and adduc- tion, must be gradually encouraged as the new wrist acquires firmness. When the hand has acquired sufficient strength, freer play for the fingers should be allowed by cutting off all the splint beyond the knuckles. Even after the hand is healed, a leather support should be worn for some time, accurately moulded to the front of the limb, reaching from the middle, of the fore-arm to the knuckles, and sufficiently turned up at the ulnar side. This is retained m situ by lacing over the back of the fore-arm." The results of this operation vary very much, and on the whole are perhaps not entirely satisfactory. A splint must be employed for a very considerable time—from three to six months—and there is a tendency for the hand to fall into a position of adduction, and also for the base