THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 124 The influence which chronic suppuration exerts upon the question of operative measures may be illustrated by the following examples: 1. The abscess jnay be unconnected ivith the Joint, but may arise from a tuberculous deposit in the end of the bone which has reached the surface outside to the joint. Here there is no actual disease of the joint at all, and the best treatment, wherever it is practicable, is to dissect out the abscess, and to completely remove the deposit from the bone; when this is not practicable, the abscess should be laid freely open, as much of the wall removed as possible, and the rest scraped out. 2. The abscess may be due to a tuberculous deposit in the bone ivhich has reached the surface at the point of reflection of the synovial ??tembrane on to it, so that in addition to the abscess and the osseous deposit there is thickening of tlie synovial membrane. The treatment will here be the same as in the first example; the disease should be removed if possible, or at any rate the abscess should be thoroughly cleared out, and the deposit in the bone removed. Whether the thickening of the synovial membrane will require any further treatment will depend upon the local condition of the joint, and on various other circumstances, some of which will be alluded to presently. 3. The abscess may have originated in connection with the synovial membrane, atid fnay or may not conimuiiicate witli the joint. Here there is generally a tendency to caseation of the tuberculous tissue in other parts of the synovial membrane, and in most cases it is advisable not to limit the operation to the abscess itself, but to remove the joint disease along with it. This will necessitate complete arthrectomy in children and excision or amputation in adults. In the case of the hip or the shoulder joints, however, it may be advisable, even under these circum- stances, to attempt first of all to treat the abscess alone by washing it out and injecting it with iodoform and glycerine before proceeding to the more radical operation. 4. Pus may be present in the interior of the joint. If the patient be young the joint should be laid freely open and the whole of the synovial membrane removed. Portions of the cartilage or bone should also be taken away, and careful search should be made for tuberculous deposits in the latter. In other words, complete arthrectomy should be performed. In adults, excision with complete removal of the synovial membrane is the best practice, unless the bones be extensively diseased or there be other conditions which necessitate amputation. 5. There may be not only pus in the joint but abscesses around it. The choice here usually lies between excision and amputation, and in most cases, particularly in old people, amputation is as a rule the better practice. In some cases, in children, it may be well to see what can be done by as thorough a removal of the tuberculous tissue as possible, but even in them the disease very frequently recurs, and amputation has- to be resorted to.