THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 86 should be thoroughly scrubbed with a nail-brush and strong mixture, and then the whole wound external to the joint should be sponged over with undiluted carbolic acid. It is a point of the greatest importance to remove the contused and lacerated tags of tissue; to merely apply undiluted carbolic acid is not sufficient, for the antiseptic is unable to gain proper access to the whole of the soiled area unless the worst parts are clipped away. The joint cavity is now laid freely open, all its recesses explored and undiluted carbolic acid applied to them. Should the injury be due to dislocation, this should be reproduced in order to get proper access to the ends of the bones and to enable the surgeon to thoroughly scrub and clean them. This procedure doubtless seems extremely severe; but the irritation resulting from thorough disinfection of this kind is a very small matter compared with the grave risk of sepsis, which will almost inevitably occur unless the treatment of the joint surfaces themselves is of the most ■vigorous possible description. An attempt is now made by irrigating the joint cavity, first with a I-2000 and later with 1-8000 sublimate solution, to remove as much as possible of the strong antiseptic, and so to diminish the violence of the subsequent irritation. This final irrigation however should not be carried out until at least ten minutes or a quarter of an hour have elapsed since the application of the stronger antiseptics, so as to give them time to produce their full action. Drainage tubes of the largest size should be introduced into the joint at the most suitable spots so arranged that every recess is freely drained. Not only should these tubes be introduced through the wound, but in many cases it is advisable to make counter-openings ,at various points. No attempt must be made to stitch up the rent in the capsule; possibly one or two stitches may be put in the skin if the wound in the soft parts be very large or irregular. The usual antiseptic dressings are applied and the limb put upon a splint. After-treatvient.—The occurrence of sepsis will be indicated by the presence of inflammation and fever within 48 hours; should no fever occur, or should the ordinary aseptic pyrexia (which will almost certainly occur) subside in 48 hours, it may be confidently surmised that sepsis has been avoided, and the number and size of the drainage tubes may be reduced. A day or two later all the drainage tubes may be removed with the excep- tion of a moderate-sized one which should be left for two or three days longer, when, if all goes well and the discharge be slight, drainage may be discontinued entirely. Daily dressings are of course necessary, and at each one the skin around the wound should be thoroughly disinfected, and every means taken to avoid septic contamination. The risk of subsequent stiffness will be far greater here than in the preceding cases, and therefore, as soon as it is evident that all danger of sepsis is over, passive movements should be practised every time the dressings are changed, the wound being carefully covered with wet gauze