RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS. such as a sprain or twist of a joint, or a fracture in the neighbourhood of or extending into one. Again, a loose cartilage in the joint is very apt to set up changes characteristic of this disease. By some it has been attributed to rheumatism, by some to gout, and by some to a combina- tion of the two; hence the term " rheumatic gout." There is no evidence, however, that either of these diseases plays any part in the affection. Patholog'ical Changres.—These are particularly marked in the articular cartilage, which becomes converted into fibro-cartilage, and is often worn away by the movements of the joint. As the cartilage dis- appears, the bone beneath becomes sclerosed, so that the surfaces in con- tact present an ivory appearance; beneath this dense layer, softening occurs and absorption readily takes place. Bony outgrowths appear in the neigh- bourhood of the joint, and these may form a ridge around the articular surface, which is often spoken of as "lipping of the articular ends of the bone." Besides this, large bosses of bone may be formed in the same situation, and this may also occur in the synovial fringes or the capsule of the joint, so that movement may be considerably interfered with; portions may even be broken off and form loose bodies in the joint. It is also not uncommon to find bony masses along the insertions of muscles about the joint. The synovial membrane may or may not be thickened; there is generally a villous condition of the surface—an affection practically identical with villous disease of the synovial membrane (see p. 107). Treatment.—The treatment of chronic rheumatoid arthritis is very discouraging. .While it is possible to arrest the progress of the disease to some extent, it is impossible to cure it, since the joint can never be restored to its normal condition. As a matter of fact, it is only in the early stages that any marked improvement can be obtained; in the more advanced cases the trouble progresses, very slightly infiuenced by any treat- ment that we are at present acquainted with. (a) General.—The first indication is to remove the patient, if necessary, from any occupation involving exposure to cold or damp, and also to place him in suitable climatic surroundings. For well-to-do people a trip to a warm, dry climate, such as Egypt, California, or Queensland, may be advised with confidence; of these, perhaps Egypt is the most suitable. The general health must also be attended to, as the patients are usually anjemic and imperfectly nourished; besides being placed under the best possible hygienic conditions, attention must be paid to the diet. A mixed diet is best, but it is well to avoid the stronger animal foods and to substitute white or raw meat for them; plenty of fat should be in- sisted upon, and a too farinaceous diet should be avoided. The patient may also be encouraged to drink large quantities of hot water between meals with the object of eliminating waste or toxic products from the blood. When the patient is very obese, it may be advisable to put him on a diet which aims at reducing the fat. For this purpose practically