DISEASES OF THE HIP JOINT. 171 a deposit in the bone leading to infection of the joint and destruction of the articular cartilages. (a) Primary bone disease.—When there are osseous deposits in- fecting the joint, there will be thickening of the bone and spasm of the muscles around the joint. The spasm presses the inflamed surfaces together, promotes rapid absorption and shortening, and calls for the employ- ment of extension. It should, however, be remembered that the object of extension is not to separate the bone ends—which would be impossible without using more weight than the patient could tolerate—but to over- come the tonic contraction of the muscles around the joint, and so to prevent the bones being forcibly pressed together ; they thus get rest, and the inflammatory mischief subsides. If, on the other hand, the disease be purely synovial, without any affection of the bone, there will be little or no muscular spasm, and ex- tension will not be called for; indeed, it would actually do harm by stretching and irritating the already inflamed capsule, and thus would in- crease the inflammation. When extension is employed in hip disease, the strapping should take its purchase from the thigh as well as from the leg; indeed, if much weight be required, it is well not to continue the plaster below the knee at all, so as to avoid pulling unduly upon the ligaments of the knee. In this first stage the extension should be made in the long axis of the body. The weight employed for extension will depend upon the age of the patient and the strength of the muscles. In a child, three pounds is very suitable to begin with, and may be increased or diminished according to circumstances; should it not relieve the pain and overcome the spasm, additional weight must of course be employed. If this relieves the pain, the case should be Avatched to see that pain does not recur after a time; any recurrent pain will be due to the weight being now too great for the muscles, and unduly stretching the ligaments. The indication is to slightly decrease the weight. Another essential is to prevent rotation of the limb, and a very suitable apparatus for this purpose has been figured in connection with fractures of the femur (see Part III., p. 117). The trunk is kept steady by a folded sheet, in which sandbags are rolled up, passed across the thorax, but, should the patient be unruly and constantly try to sit up, it will be well to apply a Liston's long splint (see Part III., p. iii) to the sound side; if applied to the affected side, it would, of course, interfere with the extension. Counter- extension is provided for by raising the foot of the bed on blocks (see Fig- 37)- When the case is very acute, it is well to employ a mattrass divided into three parts; the narrow central part is beneath the pelvis and is again divided into two lateral halves, so that one-half of it can be removed for nursing purposes without disturbing the patient. When the disease is very acute, and the pain is considerable, some