THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 44 imperfect and cannot be carried out even up to a right angle, wliilst the movements of pronation and supination are considerably interfered with. Treatment.—When the dislocation is of long-standing, it is obviously impossible to obtain satisfactory reduction by mere manipulation, as the alterations in the radio-ulnar joint are such as to entirely preclude all idea of this. In two or three cases we have obtained a satisfactory result by cutting down upon the articulation in the manner just described, and removing the head of the bone. When this has been done, and the sigmoid cavity cleared of fibrous tissue as thoroughly as possible, the upper end of the bone can be pressed back into its normal position. If sufficient bone be removed to enable complete flexion to be carried out, the result is extremely satisfactory. The wound is sewn up without a drainage tube, and no splint is employed; a mass of dressing, especially thick over the front part of the upper end of the humerus, is put on to immobilise the joint, and the arm is carried in a sling. The passive movements of pronation and supination are practised from the day following the operation, and as soon as the wound has healed, all dressings are. left off, and the patient is encouraged to move the arm, whilst energetic passive movements are persisted in. "Pulled arm."—Before leaving the question of dislocation of the head of the radius, it is necessary to refer to those cases, so frequently met with in children, in which severe pain is suddenly felt in the neigh- bourhood of the superior radio-ulnar articulation accompanied by entire loss of pronation and supination, as the result of pulling the child up suddenly or swinging him round by the fore-arm. The child screams on any attempt to rotate the radius and the limb is usually more or less powerless, and in a position midway between pronation and supination. Several explanations of this condition are put forward, the most probable being that the head of the radius has been partially withdrawn from the orbicular ligament, and that, as a result, folds of the synovial membrane covering the ligament lie over the head of the radius and are nipped between it and the articular surface of the humerus. Treatment,—That this explanation is the most probable one seems proved by the fact that the condition is easily remedied by fixing the elbow joint, firmly grasping the wrist, and then suddenly pronating and supinating the arm fully, if necessary . deflecting the whole of the fore-arm somewhat outwards. As a rule the head of the bone slips back into position at once, and the movements of the joint become free and painless.