355 TUBERCULOUS DISEASE. PT. IV. z 2 lumbo-sacral disease. When secondary to lumbar disease, it most usually commences as a periostitis. When it begins primarily in connection with the joint, it generally takes the form of a deposit in the sacrum or ilium, usually the former; as these deposits enlarge they gradually invade the articulation. The interosseous ligament is usually only partially destroyed ; it sometimes remains intact. SYMPTOMS.—The first symptom of the disease is pain, especiaHy in the lumbar region, which is of course worse after exertion ; there is often also pain in the buttock, or along the course of the sciatic nerve. There is generally a little puffiness to be noticed over the joint behind, and the muscles of the buttock waste. The patient limps, the limb on the affected side appearing longer because the pelvis is tilted downwards. Pain may be elicited by pressure over the joint behind, or by grasping the anterior superior iliac spines, and pressing them together. As time goes on, the pain and difficulty of movement increase, the leg often becomes swollen from pressure on the iliac vein, and abscesses form in various situations either in front of or behind the joint. If behind the joint, they point there, but generally they form in front, and may then burrow in various directions according to circumstances, running upwards and pointing above the crest of the ilium, backwards through the sacro-sciatic notch either into the buttock or under the gluteus maxim us into the thigh, downwards through the obturator foramen or into the perineum, or outwards into the iliac fossa or along the sheath of the psoas into the thigh. The prognosis is grave, because phthisis is often present, and because of the great difficulty in getting complete fixation of the parts. In young subjects, also, when recovery takes place, anchylosis follows, and oblique deformity of the pelvis is apt to result. TREATMENT.—The first essential is rest in the recumbent posture between sandbags, or better, in some arrangement like Phelps's box (see p. 347), even in adults. No apparatus is satisfactory which allows the patient to get about. The actual cautery applied behind the articulation before suppuration has taken place is sometimes of use. When operative interference is desir- able, the joint may be got at from behind, and portions of bone chiselled away until the disease is reached; should the disease be in the anterior part of the joint, the sciatic notch may be enlarged by the chisel so as to give free access to it. The best plan, when there is no abscess and when one is not certain which bone is affected, is to make a long curved incision with the con- vexity running along the middle of the sacrum and going well above the bones and over the sacro-sciatic notch. The flap is thrown outwards, and the glutei detached from the bone and also turned outwards. The chisel is then applied to the ilium and the sacrum and the bones chiselled away until the whole joint is excised or till the bone deposit is found and removed. Great care must, of course, be taken towards the anterior surface.