245 DISEASES OF THE ANKLE AND TARSUS. longus tendons may be divided, as they must inevitably be separated from their points of attachment during the operation. All the tissues down to the bone are now raised from the front of the foot in a manner similar to that described for arthrectomy of the ankle (see p. 234), so that the fingers can be made to meet through the two incisions. The structures on the plantar surface should similarly be separated from the tarsus, and, in doing this, care must be taken to remember the arch formed by the tarsal bones. In this way the whole of the soft structures are separated from the bony skeleton of the foot through the B Fig. 64.—Incisions kok Partial Tarkectomy for Tubekculous Disease of the Tarsus. A is the incision on the inner, £that on the outer side. By varying the length of the incisions, as much or as little of the tarsus as may be desired can be removed. whole extent of the incisions, leaving the entire synovial membrane intact and in connection with the joints. This is quite easy to do on the dorsum of the foot, as the surgeon is easily able to see what he is doing, but it is more difficult in the sole. The next step is to apply a long narrow saw transversely across the bases of the metatarsal bones, about an inch below the level of the base of the first metatarsal, and to divide them. The saw is then applied transversely across the tarsus opposite the neck of the astragalus "and divides it and the corresponding portion of the os calcis. Whilst this is being done, the soft parts must be protected and held out of the way by suitably bent copper spatulas. After the bone has been divided, a few touches of the knife ^llow the whole bony mass, together with the synovial membrane and other diseased structures, to be taken away in one mass without infecting the wound. Some surgeons wire the metatarsal bones, or at any rate the first and the fifth, to the astragalus and os calcis ; this however is not really necessary. After-treatment.—The wound is now stitched up and a drainage tube is inserted if there be much oozing. The limb should be placed upon a back splint with a foot-piece at right angles, when the weight of the toes