THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 78 bestowed upon a sprain, with the result that blood remains in the joint for a long time in a fluid state, that the union of the torn ligaments is defective, that there is a tender cicatrix in the capsule, and that fibrous adhesions form between the opposing synovial surfaces. The treatment of a sprain must obviously depend to a large extent upon the severity of the injury and the joint affected, but there are certain principles common to all cases. The first indication is clearly to check the extravasation of blood into the joint, while the second is to promote absorption of the blood already poured out; a third and equally important indication is to obtain satisfactory healing of the injured ligaments, and to restore the movements of the joint to their normal range. In every case the treatment for a sprain should commence with free movement of the joint in all directions, so as to make sure that no portions of torn capsule or synovial membrane lie between the articular surfaces. Should they do so, suitable movements of the joint will probably cause them to come into position. X. Slight sprains. After this has been satisfactorily done, the joint should be put up absolutely at rest upon a suitable splint in a position such as to give the patient the greatest ease; and it is well to combine with this the application of co/d. The use of cold is of great advantage, not only in checking the extravasation of blood following immediately upon the injury, but in subduing the inflammation that is sure to result, and therefore lessening the subsequent synovitis ; it also gives far greater comfort to the patient in the early stages than do hot fomentations, which have the marked disadvantage that they tend to promote the bleeding which it is so important to avoid. When the affection is in the lower extremity, the patient should be put to bed and the joint fixed upon a suitable splint, which is elevated upon a pillow, and ice-bags or Leiter's tubes (see Part I., p. 9) are applied; when the joint affected is in the upper extremity, a large comfortable sling should be put on, and evaporating lotions or a Leiter's coil may be applied to the joint. At the end of the first twenty-four hours gentle massage may be commenced, but* it should always be performed either by the medical man himself or by some duly qualified person, as the employment of massage in unskilled hands at this early stage might be a source of danger by doing damage to the ligaments if torn. The object of the massage is to get rid of the effusion that has occurred into and around the joint, and more particularly to promote the absorption of the effused blood. It should consist merely of gentle stroking in the upward direc- tion, without any attempt at passive movement or kneading; and it should be practised only for about a quarter of an hour the first day. At the commencement of the sitting it will probably be found that the lightest pressure causes the patient a good deal of pain, but, as the massage is persevered with, the pain becomes less, until, at the end of