SCOLIOSIS. 321 whilst there are various other mechanical exercisers, such as Whiteley's, etc., in popular use. Dumb-bells are a means of doing the same thing in a minor degree. These simple movements are suited only for cases in which there is no permanent distortion of the spine, that is to say, where suspension of the patient causes the spine to be- come perfectly straight. As these exercises produce their effect and obliterate the curve, they may be gradually abandoned in favour of more simple home drill exercises designed to improve the muscular system generally (see p. 327) ; these should be practised at least once a day for a very prolonged period. A useful adjunct to this treat- ment is to have the child taught singing, which not only develops various muscles of the chest and back, but insures the proper ex- pansion of the lungs, tends to obliterate stooping habits, and im- proves nutrition generally. Similarly, any adenoids or enlarged tonsils that are present should receive ap- propriate treatment. Mechanical supports are never necessary in this group of cases ; indeed, care should be taken to see that the child does not wear stiff stays; the utmost that should be allowed are stays of stout jean without bones. {f3) When the curve can be improved but cannot be entirely obliter- ated.—It is particularly this class of case of which the treatment is most difficult, because, although the spine can be induced to resume its normal shape up to a certain point, the affection has lasted sufficiently long for such profound bony and ligamentous changes to have occurred as to pre- vent complete restoration, and therefore the treatment must be directed not only to straightening the spine as much as possible, but to providing against subsequent relapses, which are very likely to occur should the treatment be prematurely abandoned. Exercises.—The measures to rectify the curvature will be somewhat on the same lines as for the group just described, but of a considerably more vigorous nature; the principle of the exercises is the same, but they should be persevered with more energetically and should be carried out Fig. 82.—Dowd's Machine. The resistance against which the e.vercises are performed is increased by adding weights to the sliding brackets. Two machines are shown in the figure, side by side. {Percy Leivis.) PT. IV. X