INJURIES OF THE SPINE. 293 (\]\^ v.-xv.) may also be advantageously employed on account of its action both on the kidneys and the lungs. Generally however, in spite of the most careful treatment, the case goes from bad to worse and the patient eventually dies of suppurative nephritis. Bedsores.—The prevention of bedsores is always most difficult and sometimes is almost impossible. Every care should be taken to see that there is no undue pressure at any point; even the knees must not be allowed to rest against one another without the intervention of a suitable pillow or pad. The various precautions recommended against bedsore (see Part I., p. 66) must be scrupulously adopted, and above all the skin must not be allowed to become soiled or wet. It is almost essential to employ a divided mattrass in the early stages, so that the central portion can be pulled out to allow of the intraduction of a bed-pan or applications to the skin of the back. Two to three weeks later, when the fracture is beginning to consolidate, a water-bed should be substituted for this. The empty water-bed is slipped under the patient beneath the sheet, and is readily filled through a funnel or an ordinary douche-can provided with enough indiarubber tubing to allow it to be well raised. The food must be concentrated and easily digestible; it should consist of strong soups, milk and beef-tea. The state of the bowels must be carefully attended to, as constipation is the rule. The breathing must be facihtated as much as possible, and symptoms of commencing congestion of the lungs should be watched for keenly and treated immediately they arise. Carbonate of ammonia (gr. v.-x.) and diffusible stimulants, such as alcohol, ether, etc., must be had recourse to, but if pneumonia develops, the prognosis is practically hopeless, as the patient is unable to clear the lungs owing to the embarrassment resulting from the paralysis of the abdominal and other respiratory muscles. After-treatment.—When recovery is taking place, the patient must be kept in the horizontal position for at least two months, at the end of which time he may be fitted with a well-moulded poroplastic or plaster of Paris jacket and be allowed to get about on crutches if the paralysis remaining be only slight. As a rule however the patient remains bed-ridden through- out the rest of his existence, the sitting position being the utmost that he is able to assume. The condition of the urine usually varies considerably at different times, and treatment may be required for the various trophic nerve lesions that are apt to follow on the fracture. WOUNDS OF THE SPINE. STABS.—Penetrating wounds of the spine are very uncommon except in military surgery, but they are occasionally met with as the result of stabs, or falls upon sharp-pointed instruments. The symptoms and the severity of the accident vary of course with the amount of damage done to the spinal cord, but in all cases in which the spinal canal is penetrated