TUBERCULOSIS. 127 ments and thoroughly clean them, or, if they be much destroyed, to remove them entirely; special attention must be paid to the condition of the parts in the inter-condyloid notch, which must be cleaned out as thoroughly as possible right down to the posterior ligament. The joint is then flexed as fully as possible, the semilunar cartilages are removed, and the dissection of the synovial membrane at the back of the joint is resumed. It is, as a rule, quite easy to define the outer surface of the synovial membrane on each side, and to separate it from the capsule; when this has been done, the separation backwards is gradually effected by the finger and some blunt dissector. This separation is continued until the points of reflection of the capsule posteriorly on to the femur above and the tibia below are met with, when the synovial membrane is cut off along these lines, and the fringe left around the cartilages is care- fully removed. After having thus removed all the diseased synovial membrane, the articular ends may be easily protruded through the wound, and the car- tilage can be thoroughly examined. Any depressions seen upon the surface should be carefully cleaned out, either with the knife or a small sharp spoon, and any portion of the cartilage that is thinned or loosened should be freely removed, together with a slice of a quarter of an inch or so of the bone beneath. Very frequently the cartilages are covered with a thin layer of soft vascular tissue, which must be removed entirely, either by scraping the surface with the edge of the knife or by scrubbing it with a stiff nail-brush. Wherever the cartilage has been destroyed, a layer of the carious bone, about a quarter of an inch in thickness, should be taken away; this can generally be done with a knife. Of course, should there be a hole anywhere, either in the cartilage or in the bone, leading to a deposit in the articular end, it must be thoroughly cleared out. After having ascertained by fresh inspection that all the disease has been removed, the wound is closed, the crucial ligaments, if left, being stitched together, and the patella, if divided, wired. A drainage tube is seldom necessary, but, should it be decided to employ one, it should only be left in for two or three days. The limb is put up, with the knee fully extended, in a trough of Gooch's splinting. We are of opinion that it is better in these operations to avoid the use of a tourniquet; when it is not employed it is distinctly easier to distinguish the diseased tissues from the healthy ones, the pulsation of the popliteal artery can be felt—a point of great importance when dissect- ing out the synovial membrane posteriorly — and the after-oozing is distinctly less. After the wound has healed, the limb should be put up on a straight back splint, and no passive movement at all should be attempted. There is no likelihood that, after a free and extensive operation such as this, any great amount of movement will be gained, whilst there is a constant tendency in children for the knee to become flexed, and therefore a