CHAPTER XVII. LQOSE BODIES IN JOINTS. By a loose body in a joint is understood an abnormally movable structure which is apt to get between the articular ends of the bones and to interfere with the movements of the joint. Causes.—Loose bodies may be subdivided into those originatmg inside the joint and those introduced from without; the latter should strictly be called foreign bodies, examples being bullets, pieces of glass, etc. The loose bodies having an intra-articular origin may be divided • into two classes, namely : (a) structures which normally form part of the articulation but which have become detached; and those derived from the growth or deposition of structures which form no part of the normal joint. Of the former class a typical example is a detached fibro-cartilage, but this will be more appropriately considered in connection with the particular joints in which the fibro-cartilages occur. Sometimes portions of cartilage may be detached from the underlying bone by injuries, and may form loose bodies. These have already been dealt with (see Part III., p. 133). The common type of loose body in the joint belongs to the second group of which we have spoken, and is formed within the joint. Three conditions may be mentioned : (i) detached hypertrophied villous processes; (2) the so-called " rice bodies " ; and (3) the true loose cartilages which are not the result of injury, but are due to the development of cartilage in the synovial fringes. We have already referred to the villous condition of the synovial mem- brane (see p. 107), and the rice-like bodies occurring in tendon sheaths and joints have also been discussed (see Part II., p. 219); they are always tuberculous in origin. We heed therefore only deal here with the true loose cartilages. These bodies are usually few in number in any joint and are very often single. They are generally smooth, ovoid, and flattened, and consist of a layer of hyaline cartilage which may be undergoing ossifica- tion in the interior. They spring from the synovial fringes, in which ■