284 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE. the seat of injury. This varies with the amount of damage done to the cord, but, if not complete, the motor paralysis is generally more marked than the sensory. It is however rare to find only a partial injury except in fracture of the spines or the laminae, in which the pressure may be on one side of the cord or in which a spicule of bone may have been broken off from one part of the spinal column. Above the area of complete sensory paralysis there is generally a zone of hypertesthesia due to irritation of the nerves in the neighbourhood of the fracture. The reflexes are abolished at the time of the accident but may recur later on ; their return generally indicates a partial lesion of the cord. Certain special symptoms accompany fractures of the spine, of which the following may be mentioned : r. Urinary disorders.—These are met with in all fractures above the lower lumbar region. When the fracture is in the dorso-lumbar region there is generally incontinence of urine; when it is higher up, retention with overflow. After a time, in spite of the greatest care, the bladder becomes the seat of a low form of cystitis, the urine is filled with thick, ropy muco-pus and later on the inflammation spreads upwards and leads to pyelo-nephritis. There is generally very considerable priapism, often painless, but sometimes causing considerable inconvenience. 2. Aiimentary troubles.—When the fracture is in the lower dorsal region there is often considerable interference with the sympathetic nervous system leading to intestinal disturbances, such as vomiting, tympanites and con- stipation. This condition is aggravated by the paralysis of the abdominal muscles. 3. Respiratory troubles.—Fracture in the upper dorsal region entails paralysis of the intercostal muscles, and when it is in the lower cervical region all the accessory muscles of respiration are paralysed as well as the intercostals, and respiration is carried on by the diaphragm alone. In fracture above the third cervical vertebra death is usually immediate from paralysis of the phrenic as well as the other respiratory nerves. As a result of the interference with the muscles of respiration'*in these fractures in the dorsal and lower cervical regions, there is a great tendency to imperfect expansion and aeration of the lungs, leading to congestion of the bases followed by hypostatic pneumonia, which is a frequent cause of death. 4. Nerve troubles.—There are other changes common to all fractures of the spine. For example, the circulation is affected, the pulse being markedly irregular and often very rapid, whilst vascular disturbances, such as flushing, etc., are frequent. The temperature, at first at any rate, is usually subnormal. Trophic changes are met with in the paralysed parts, the most important being the occurrence of acute bedsore which appears on any part subject to pressure, more especially over the sacrum. The slightest pressure may lead to rapidly spreading gangrene of the skin, the pressure of one knee against the other being sufficient in some cases.