SCOLIOSIS. kneeling in front, places a thumb upon each of the anterior superior iliac spines and notes whether they are upon the same horizontal level; should there be any doubt upon this point the length of the lower extremities should be measured from the anterior superior spine to the tip of the internal malleolus on each side. The presence of flat-foot or knock-knee should also be looked for. The ne.xt point in the examination is to see how much alteration can be made in the curvature; in other words the flexibility of the spinal column is tested. If the case be a slight one, the patient should be directed to hold herself as erect as possible and any alteration in the curvature is then compared with the measurements that have already been taken in the position of rest. If the curvature be only slight, it will generally be found that marked improvement is produced by the effort necessary to stand at attention. Should the curvature be due to inequality in the length of the lower extremities, suitable blocks should be placed beneath the shortened limb so as to make the pelvis perfectly horizontal, and the effect upon the curvature noted. In early cases this will practically entirely obliterate it. Should these methods not succeed in entirely obliterating the curve, the patient should be suspended by the hands from a suitable bar, with the feet just off the ground, so that the entire weight of the body is borne by the arms. A more accurate method of doing this is to use a trapeze with two bars, the upper one being three inches above the lower, hung just sufficiently high to swing the patient free of the ground. The lower bar is grasped with the hand upon the side of the convexity, whilst the upper is laid hold of with the other; this pulls upon the spinal column and tends to straighten the curve. The positions of the spinous processes are now noted and compared with those observed in the standing-at-ease position. In young children the bar may be dispensed with, the child being lifted from the ground by the arms. The amount of rotation of the vertebrae is easily gauged by noticing the alteration in the ribs; advanced deformity of this kind is a symptom of bad import as it is more difificult to rectify than the ordinary lateral curvature. PROGNOSIS.—This procedure is of the greatest importance both to prognosis and to treatment, as it shows how much flexibility remains in the spine and gives a good indication of the result that can be expected from treatment. Should the suspension fail to obliterate the curve entirely, it tends to show that ligamentous or even bony changes have taken place in the spinal column and that therefore no absolutely perfect restoration of the erect position is likely to result from treatment. On the other hand, if the spine be thus rendered perfectly straight, a hopeful prognosis may be given and the chances are that, with proper care and suitable treatment, the curve may in time be entirely obliterated. When called upon to give a definite prognosis in these cases, the surgeon must remember that a large number of the minor degrees are