DISEASES OF THE HIP JOINT. may now be separated from tlie structures behind it by means of one linger introduced through the posterior wound aided by another intro- duced through the anterior incision as a guide, and a considerable portion of the capsule at any rate may thus be clipped away. It is, however, practically impossible to remove the entire structure, and the portion remaining must be cut away with curved scissors and systematically scraped with a sharp flushing gouge (see Fig. 44) through which a weak sublimate solution (1-6000), is kept running. After the bleeding has been arrested, the posterior wound is first sutured accurately and then about an ounce of the iodoform and glycerine emulsion (see p. 120) is introduced through the anterior incision, and the wound stitched up entirely without any drainage. The limb is brought into proper position, which will be one of slight abduction. The tendons of the adductors may if necessary be divided by a tenotomy knife close to their origin from the pubes. When, after making the anterior incision and removing the head of the bone and the anterior portion of the capsule, the patient's condition is such as to contra-indicate the risk of the additional shock entailed by the posterior incision, the surgeon must confine himself to removing as much of the posterior part of the capsule as possible through the anterior wound by means of scissors and a sharp flushing gouge. This, however, is a far inferior method to the one described, and should only be adopted when circumstances forbid the employment of the other method. After-treatment.—When the patient is put back to bed, extension should be employed, a weight of about three or four pounds being used for a child, the limb being in the abducted position, and rotation prevented by means of the apparatus behind the knee shown in Fig. 37. A Listen's long splint should also be applied to the sound side from the axilla to beyond the toes, so as to prevent any flexion of the hip joint. The patient should be laid upon a mattrass divided into three parts, so that the central portion can be removed for nursing purposes without necessitating any disturbance. The extension and fixation of the limb should be kept up for about six weeks; at the end of that time a Thomas's hip splint (see p. 172) may be employed. This should be bent well outwards opposite the joint so as to keep the limb in the abducted position; the splint should be provided with a pelvic band. In quite young children, who are very difficult to keep quiet, either a double Thomas's splint (see p. 175) or a Phelps's box (see p. 176) will be better than the single splint. Contrary to the common recommendation, we very strongly advise that the patient should not be allowed to walk or to bear any weight on the limb for several months—at least six or eight after the operation. If this be done, the consolidation of the structures in the neighbourhood of the joint will give a much firmer joint than is otherwise obtainable. It is very seldom that anything like bony anchylosis occurs, but if a movable joint be desired, this may