285 INJURIES OF THE SPINE. These bedsores are often fatal from septic infection. Cutaneous rashes, bullce, etc., are also frequently met with. Prognosis.—The prognosis varies according to the region of the spine that is the seat of fracture and according as the fracture affects the spinous processes and laminas or the bodies of the vertebrae. PV/ien the fracture is in the neural arches the symptoms are mainly due to depression of the fragments, and the compression they cause does not necessarily give rise to much permanent damage to the spinal cord. Indeed, if means be taken to relieve the pressure, the patient may recover partially or even entirely. When the cauda equina is alone pressed upon, as it is in fractures in the lower lumbar region, the recovery following removal of the pressure is usually complete. In fracture of the bodies of the 'oertebra the prognosis is much more grave on account of the immediate and often irreparable damage done to the cord—a damage that can seldom be remedied by any attempts to relieve pressure. The prognosis is most favourable in fractures of the lumbar spine and is worst in those about the upper dorsal and cervical regions. In fractures of the lumbar spine, even though there be permanent paralysis of motion and sensation in the parts below, along with the attendant trophic changes, the patient does not as a rule suffer from any severe symptoms except perhaps incontinence of urine, and if this condition be carefully attended to, years may elapse before he dies. In fact, the cause of death is usually either sepsis in connection with acute bedsore or a similar con- dition in the urinary organs, both of which can, to a certain extent at any rate, be guarded against. When Iioivever the fracture is i?i the dorsal region, the mortality is greatly increased. Here the urinary troubles are much more severe and, in spite of the greatest care, it is hardly possible to stave off for any great length of time the occurrence of pyelo nephritis. The patient is moreover constantly exposed to the risk of dangerous hypostatic congestion of the lungs from the want of proper aeration of the bases owing to the paralysis of the abdominal and lower intercostal muscles; this risk not uncommonly increases as time goes on, because some secondary myelitis generally occurs above the injury to the cord, and thus leads to extension of the trouble upwards and a further diminution in the nerve supply. When the fracture is in the cervical region death almost invariably results within a few days, or weeks at the utmost, chiefly owing to the respiratory embarrassment due to the paralysis, and the resulting imperfect aeration of the lungs. Treatment of the fracture.—In considering the treatment, we have to distinguish between fractures of the bodies and those of the neural arches. 1. Fracture of the bodies of the vertebree.—In taking charge of these cases it is very important to remember the grave damage which has probably already been done to the cord, and the serious risk of increasing this by incautious movements. It is not permissible in examining these