CHAPTER XXVI. SPINA BIFIDA. DEFINITION.—By the term Spina Bifida is meant a condition in which there is a cleft in the posterior wall of the spinal canal due to imperfect development and want of union of the neural arch. This defect is usually accompanied by a protrusion of the spinal membranes through the gap with or without some of the constituents of the cord. The gap may affect one or several vertebrae and is most common in the lumbar or lumbo- sacral region, although it may occur in almost any part of the spine. VARIETIES.—There are several varieties of this deformity. 1. Spina bifida occulta.—Here there is simply a defect in the laminae without any protrusion of the meninges or prominence of the skin. In association with this condition there is usually a growth of hair on the skin over the defect which is often marked by a distinct dimple. Although there is no protrusion there may be various paralytic conditions present, such as talipes, paraplegia, want of control over the sphincters, etc. The usual forms of the affection are accompanied by well-marked pro- trusion of the meninges which form a sac communicating with the interior of the spinal canal. The following are the chief forms met with : 2. Meningocele.—Here only the membranes of the cord project through the gap, and there are therefore no nerve elements in the tumour thus formed. - 3. Meningo-myelocele.—This is the most common variety, and in it there is protrusion both of the meninges and of various nerve elements. When the spina bifida occurs low down, the cauda equina may be spread over the interior of the sac and adherent to it. When somewhat higher up, the spinal cord itself may run along the vertical median line of the tumour behind, and from it the nerves may run along the inner surface of the sac wall to the intervertebral foramina, or they may pass directly across the cavity. 4 Syringo myelocele.—This is a rare condition in which the central canal of the cord is dilated, and a portion of the spinal cord is therefore spread out over the interior of the sac.