307 SCOLIOSIS. opposite side, and, if a faulty position be habitually assumed, the muscles that are at a mechanical advantage will keep up or even accentuate the curvature, and will eventually produce the rotation of the vertebras already spoken of. This rotation always takes place in one direction ; the bodies of the vertebrae are rotated outwards towards the convexity of the curve, whilst the spinous and other processes are rotated inwards towards the side of the concavity, i.e. towards the middle line of the body. It will perhaps help to make the matter clear from the point of view of treatment, if we classify cases of lateral curvature according to their causes into four main groups : 1. Cases due to inequality in length of the supports of the spine.— This group is of the highest importance, and embraces various causes, many of which are constantly met with in practice. Unless the base of the support of the spine {i.e. the sacrum) be horizontal, a certain amount of curvature must necessarily result. However slight the obliquity may be, it is sufficient to prove the starting-point of a severe scoliosis in susceptible subjects. In strong healthy persons, on the other hand, this obliquity may be easily corrected, and may pass practically unnoticed. Among the commonest of this group of causes is obliquity of the pelvis, resulting from all inequality in length of the two lower limbs. This may occur as the result of hip disease, of congenital dislocation of the hip, or of the arrest of development which follows infantile paralj'sis. In weakly subjects scoliosis is not at all an uncommon complication of bad genu valgum and even of flat foot. The primary curve in this group is usually in the lumbar or lower dorsal region. 2. Cases produced by inequality in the weight borne on the two sides of the spine.—Common examples of this are seen in nursemaids who carry children habitually upon one arm, labourers carrying hods, pails or heavy weights always on the same side, cases where amputation of one arm at the shoulder joint has been performed in young subjects, etc. It is of course not necessary that scoliosis should be produced in every case in which unequal weights are carried on the two sides ; as long as the subject is perfectly strong and vigorous, and the weight carried is not out of proportion to the strength of the muscles, the latter are able to main- tain their tone, and to keep the spine erect when the position of rest is assumed. When however the muscular system is weak or the weight is excessive, and particularly when it is carried for long periods at a time, .scoliosis is apt to result. 3. Cases due primarily to weakness of the spinal muscles, aided by the habitual assumption of a faulty position.—This cause is responsible for a very large number of cases of scoliosis. As long as the patient is in good health, the muscles upon the two sides of the spine act together to keep that structure erect, but in certain subjects, and especially at certain periods of life, muscular weakness occurs, and the muscles are no longer equal to their task of keeping the spine in its normal position for