219 DISEASES OF THE KNEE JOINT. When there are unopened abscesses in adults.—Treatment will be largely influenced by the general condition of the patient as well as by the local condition of the joint. Should the abscesses be numerous or large, should the joint be unduly movable,—indicating marked destruction of the ligaments, — and should the patient hi" suffering great pain, much emaciated and with phthisis or tuberculosis elsewhere, amputation at . the junction of the lower with the middle third of the femur is the best procedure in the majority of cases. In cutting the flaps care should be taken not to open the abscess and thus soil the wound with tuberculous material. When, on the other hand, the patient is vigorous, the abscess single and the disorganisation of the joint and the pain not very great, the case may be treated much in the manner just described. If the disease be still progressive, excision of the joint may be performed when the abscess has healed or has much diminished in size. We are strongly of opinion that both in adults and in children it is well to separate the treatment of the abscess from the performance of arthrectomy or excision, because the pus is very likely to infect the cut surfaces of the bone and to lead to a fresh outbreak of the tuberculous disease. An additional argument in favour of this is that the removal of the abscess simultaneously with the performance of the excision or the arthrec- tomy makes the operation much longer and more severe. When septic sinuses are present.—The state of affairs is here much more serious. In children undoubtedly these sinuses will sometimes heal if the limb be thoroughly immobilised and the patient placed under good hygienic conditions; at the same time, this is rare and the case is very apt apt to go downhill, especially if there be much pain. Operative inter- ference is therefore called for. In children.—Atnputation through the thigh in a child should always be avoided if possible, because very little growth occurs in the stump, so that, when adult life is reached, the limb is practically valueless. Arthrectomy in most cases gives a very satisfactory result, but it must be remembered that the case is complicated by sepsis and special care will have to be taken to eradicate this. At the commencement of the operation therefore, after the skin has been thoroughly purified, the sinuses should be carefully scraped, and a piece of sponge immersed in undiluted carbolic acid should be introduced into each sinus and left there. Each sinus should then be included in an elliptical incision and dissected out throughout its whole extent. Should the sinuses lie in the line of the ordinary incision they will of course be removed during the deepening of the wound. The operation is performed as already described (see p. 209). After the synovial membrane has been removed, it is well to sponge the entire wound over with undiluted carbolic acid, which is allowed to act for five or ten minutes and then washed away with a 1-2000 sublimate solution. No symptoms of carbolic acid poisoning need be feared. In most cases it is well to insert a drainage tube, but, when there have been