281 INJURIES OF THE SPINE. the fact that in many cases the obscurer nerve symptoms—which may be absolutely genuine in character—do not develop until some little time after the injury. Conversely, improvement may be proportionately rapid after the worry and fatigue attendant on the question of compensation are finally disposed of After a short time devoted to rest and quiet, the treatment must be directed to the absorption of any effusion about the spine and to the early restoration of its functions. Practically the treatment resolves itself into that suitable for sprains of the spine {vide supra). It is a point of the highest practical importance in these cases to get the patient up and about as soon as the local condition of the spine will allow. Unduly prolonged rest only serves to accentuate the various vague spinal, muscular and nerve pains from which the patient suffers, while the mental condition becomes proportionately bad. In the more markedly hysterical cases nothing will succeed but some form of the Weir Mitchell treatment (see p. 145); in the less severe ones, an entire change of scene and sur- roundings, such as a sea-voyage or the like, may be sufficient. HEMORRHAGE INTO THE CORD OR H/EMATO-MYELIA. This condition must be considered in connection with spinal concussion, because the injuries which lead to the one are very apt to produce the other, while the two conditions are very often combined. The presence of punctiform hemorrhages in the substance of the cord has been already alluded to above, but the condition specially referred to here is marked by more extensive htemorrhage, which gives rise to a definite clot in the grey matter of the spinal cord-. This condition usually follows acute flexion of the spine, and, according to Thorburn, is practically confined to the region of the fourth, fifth, or sixth cervical vertebrje. Symptoms.—When the lesion is marked, there may at first be com- plete paraplegia; this is subsequently recovered from to a certain extent in the lower limbs, in which only some slight weakness may be left. The severe symptoms are practically confined to the upper extremities, and are often followed by permanent loss of power, and wasting in some of the muscles. When the hEemorrhage is less, the symptoms are confined to the arms from the first; this distinguishes these cases from those of spinal con- cussion, in which the symptoms are most marked in the lower parts of the legs and in which the arms are comparatively slightly affected. After partial recovery, the paralysis may begin to extend as the result of myelitis. Unless the htemorrhage be severe and be followed by myelitis, there is usually partial recovery. Treatment.— This consists simply of rest in bed, ice to the back, injections of ergotinine (see p. 279), and the use of purgatives. It is hardly to be expected that an operation for removal of the intra-meduUary clot can be of any practical service.