3i6 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE. childhood and before the onset of puberty, (c) those occurring during the period of adolescence, that is to say between puberty and the age at which growth ceases, and (d) those occurring after growth is complete. (a) The scoliosis of infancy.—The remarks made with reference to the treatment of kyphosis (see p. 305) will apply very largely to this condition. The general health requires attention ; any tendency to rickets must be corrected by proper feeding, by hygienic measures, and by the administration of appropriate drugs (see Part III. p. 208). Besides this, the child should be kept always in the horizontal position, either in the nurse's arms, or preferably upon a suitably padded wicker tray or basket. After the first year, the back support recommended for kyphosis (see p. 305) may be employed, but recumbency must still be strongly insisted upon, so as to relieve the back from the superincumbent weight. The child should always be sent to the country or to the seaside for a considerable period if possible, and, besides this, massage to the back muscles should be em- ployed night and morning so as to strengthen them. The rubbing may be done either with olive oil, some simple liniment, or with sea-water. Walking should be strongly discouraged ; mothers are constantly anxious for the child to begin to walk early under these circumstances, but the importance of the recumbent or semi-recumbent position should be pointed out, and attempts at walking strictly prohibited. The child should be encouraged to sleep upon the back, and may if necessary be fastened down upon a suitably padded wicker tray in that position. For this pur- pose special bed splints are sold, and may be used if preferred. Should there be a marked curvature however, the lateral position may be usefully substituted for the dorsal, the child then lying upon the side of the con- vexity of the curve in the dorsal region, with a suitably sized firm pillow or small bolster interposed between the mattrass and the convexity of the curve. The object of this is to unfold the latter, and it will often be of considerable advantage. The mattrass should be of horsehair and firm ; a feather bed should be avoided, and the child should sleep with the head supported merely by one small pillow. (b) The scoliosis of childhood.—Great care has to be exercised in the treatment of curvatures during this period of life, for, although on the one hand the spine is extremely flexible, and therefore can easily be influenced by treatment, this very property may be a source of actual danger, because the curve if neglected will lead to such marked distortion of the bones when they become fully ossified as to render treatment very difficult. Removal of cause.—Before proceeding to attack the curvature itself, the first indication is to eliminate any cause that may originate or keep up the vicious position. Any obliquity of the pelvis, due to inequality in the length of the lower extremities, must be remedied by suitable means, such as boots, operation, etc. Any vicious attitude acquired while sitting or standing at lessons, or even in playing games, must be carefully inquired for and forbidden, while some other attitude or game which tends to rectify