208 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. and is best employed in combination with counter-irritation, as is obtained by strapping the limb with Scott's dressing. The latter, which is the compound mercurial ointment, spread fairly thickly upon lint, is cut into strips and applied around the joint. Outside this, ordinary strapping is applied smoothly and firmly so as to compress the joint. An even more satisfactory method is to spread the ointment on chamois leather, which is then cut into strips and applied in an imbricated fashion as already described (see p. 119). The limb is then fixed upon a suitable splint and the patient kept at rest as before. The Scott's dressing requires changing at least once a week, as otherwise the skin may become excoriated; should this happen, the dressing must be abandoned, and pressure by means of a cotton wool and starch bandage (see p. 120) substituted for it. Comiter-irritation by blistering is often employed in this stage, but it does not seem to be of any special benefit and may actually do harm by increasing the congestion. In pure synovial disease extension is of course entirely unnecessary; indeed it would be hurtful in most cases, as has already been pointed out in connection with disease of the hip. It is only likely to be of benefit at this stage when flexion has occurred and extension is therefore required to bring the limb straight mechanically; three or four pounds are usually sufficient for this purpose. When the flexion is slight, it is usually found that, after the application of a Thomas's splint, the weight of the limb alone gradually brings the knee straight, so that it is very seldom that extension will be called for. Should the synovial thickening remain unaffected or actually increase in spite of physiological rest, good hygienic conditions and pressure, some more active measures will be required; of these perhaps the best is injection of iodoform and glycerine emulsion into the joint. This should be prepared and used as directed on p. 120. The injection gives rise to a certain amount of swelling and perhaps slight pain for a few hours afterwards, both of which gradually pass off; the injection may be repeated about once a week. In some cases we have found very marked improvement follow this treatment; in others the method fails and the disease progresses in spite of it, when more vigorous measures still will have to be adopted. Another plan used in the early stage is Bier's con- gestive method. This has already been described (see p. 122) and may be advantageously combined with the iodoform injections. Operative.—The question of early operative interference will arise in this stage of the disease, and will be largely influenced by the patient's age. The object of operating at this period is to remove the diseased synovial membrane before it has had time to spread to the cartilage and destroy it, and in children the disease can often be cut short by an arthrectomy when the methods already recommended have failed to arrest its progress. In adults, on the other hand, arthrectomy is unsatisfactory and should seldom be employed. Excision is too severe an operation at this stage unless other lesions be present.