DISEASES OF THE HIP JOINT. unsatisfactory, as the limitation of movement and the pain are likely to recur owing to the formation of fresh osteophytes, whilst the joint resulting is very imperfect. CI-IARCOT'.S DISEASE. The hip is frequently the seat of Charcot's disease, and in this situation atrophic changes only are found as a rule. There is rapid atrophy of the head and neck of the bone, with destruction of the joint, and early dis- location. Treatment.—The treatment is mainly directed to fixing the joint and enabling the patient to get about. In the earlier stages of the affection he should, if possible, be taken off his feet entirely, and confined either to bed or to a couch; at the same time, matters should be so arranged that he is able to get out in the air, and for this purpose he may be wheeled out sitting in a bath chair. At a later period, when the acuter symptoms have subsided, a Thomas's hip splint may be employed, and the patient allowed to get about on crutches. In younger subjects in whom there is some attempt at formation of fresh bone about the joint, a Thomas's knee splint may be useful ; and, after prolonged rest, it may be permissible for them to walk with the aid of a stick, after being fitted with a high boot. They should be kept off their feet, how- ever, for at least three years. HYSTERICAL HIP-JOINT DISEASE. Hysterical joint disease is very common in the hip and is generally marked by muscular contraction and the assumption of vicious attitudes. The trouble often occurs after some injury, and is distinguished from true hip-joint disease by the diffuseness of the pain and its superficial character. There is an entire absence of any sign of true disease of the joint particularly thickening over the front and back of the joint. In the early stages also, the limb can be moved without any difficulty under an anaesthetic, and no grating can be felt. Treatment.—The treatment of these cases has been fully discussed (see p. 145), and little more need be added here. In the later stages, when true shortening of the muscles has occurred, it may be necessary to perform tenotomy, after which the limb must be kept extended by exten- sion apparatus or fixed with splints. The muscles that usually require division are the adductors, which are readily divided over the inner side of the thigh, just below their origin from the ramus of the pubes; the tensor vaginae femoris may require division, which may be done sub- cutaneously over the contracted bands. Sometimes the rectus may have to be divided, and it is then best to make an incision between the inner border of the tensor vaginae femoris and the sartorius, close PT. IV. N