231 DISEASES OF THE ANKLE AND TARSUS. the movements of the joint. The treatment offers no points of difference from that already described (see p. 140). TUBERCULOUS DISEASE. Tuberculous disease of the ankle, the tarsus, and metatarsus are relatively more common during adolescence than at any other period. The parts most frequently affected are those upon which most strain is thrown in the transmission of the weight of the body, namely the ankle joint itself, the astragalus (more particularly the head), the os calcis, and the base of the first metatarsal. As in other joints, the disease may be primary either in the synovial membrane or in the bone; in the ankle it is more often primary in the synovial membrane, whilst in the tarsus it is more common in the bone. Of the tarsal bones, the os calcis is most frequently affected; next in order comes the first metatarsal, then the astragalus, and finally the scaphoid and internal cuneiform. It is important to note that in tuberculous disease of the tarsus nearly all the bones are usually the seat of rarefying osteitis and are consequently much softer than usual, although the disease may be confined to one bone or to one part of the articulation. TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF THE ANKLE JOINT. In cases of primary synovial disease, the principal swelling^is over the front of the ankle, on either side of the tendons; there is also generally some swelling on either side of the tendo Achillis. As the disease advances, enlargement is noticed below the malleoli. When the disease is primary i7i the bone its most frequent seat is in the astragalus; after this come the malleoli, particularly the inner one, and when the malleoli are affected there is also enlargement of the bone in addition to the other joint symptoms. When the astragalus is primarily affected the enlargement cannot be made out in the early stages, and it is often difficult to diagnose the disease before the ankle joint has become involved. In some cases the deposit is in the substance of the bone and makes its way to the surface outside the joint, but in the majority the deposit occurs beneath the cartilage and very soon opens either into the ankle or the astragalo-scaphoid joint. Course.—If the disease be left untreated, a condition of talipes equinus is produced from pointing of the toes, while the ligaments become softened in the later stages and allow lateral deviation of the foot, particularly to the outer side. When abscesses occur, they are usually on the antero- lateral aspects of the joint. A very common complication is tuberculous disease of the tendon sheaths of the extensors and those passing behind the internal malleolus. Treatment.—As in the case of other joints, we may distinguish various