254 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. either be removed also, or at any rate its interior must be carefully gouged out. After the head of the bone has been removed, the glenoid cavity is examined and is sawn off if diseased, the amount of bone removed depend- ing on the extent of the disease present ; should there be no obvious affection of it, the cartilaginous surface is merely shaved off with a knife. The remains of the capsule at the posterior part of the joint must now be clipped away with scissors, and the joint cavity, after being examined to see that all tuberculous material has been removed, may be closed. When there is already actual anchylosis of the joint, the head of the bone may be removed in situ at the level of the anatomical neck with a chisel of suitable breadth, the soft parts on the inner and posterior aspects of the joint being protected from damage by a flexible copper spatula which is pushed in around the head of the bone. A second bone section is then made through the glenoid cavity, and the portion of bone thus detached is removed with lion forceps. In excising the shoulder it is very important to remove as little of the bone as possible, because it is necessary to leave the attachment of the rotators intact if this can be safely done; this permits rotation of the arm, whereas after the old operation, in which the rotators were completely cut across and the bone was sawn on a level with the surgical neck, the resulting limb was very useless, rotation being especially imperfect. When the wound has been stitched up, it is advisable to insert a drainage tube at the lower angle for a few days, as a considerable cavity is left which may become distended with blood and serum ; the tube may generally be taken out in three days. After the usual gauze dressings have been applied, a large wedge-shaped pad is placed in the axilla so as to prevent displacement inwards of the upper end of the bone. It is well also to place a firm pad over the front of the joint, because the upper end of the bone is apt also to be drawn forwards. The wedge-shaped pad should be carried down as far as the elbow, and the fore-arm should be supported in a wrist-sling. The hand should not be bound to the side, but should be put up with the fore-arm looking directly forward, in the position recommended for the expectant treatment (see Fig. 66). After-ireatmefit.—As soon as the wound has healed, the arm may be fixed in proper position by a starch or waterglass bandage, and, after two weeks more, passive movement may be begun; the period at which this passive movement should be employed depends largely upon the amount of bone removed; if the whole of the upper end of the bone has been removed and the rotators divided, as was done in the old operation, the elbow should be supported and the arm fixed for four or ,five weeks, as otherwise a very lax joint is likely to result; if, on the other hand, the operation we have described is sufficient, passive movement should be begun after a fortnight. Special attention must be paid to preserving rotation, which is the movement most likely to be lost; abduction should