DISEASES OF THE WRIST AND HAND. 271 artery. The removal of the trapezium is left till the rest of the carpus has been taken away, when it can be dissected out without much difficulty, whereas its intimate relations with the artery and the neighbouring parts would cause much trouble at an earlier stage. The hand being bent back to relax the extensors, the ulnar incision should next be made very free by entering the knife at least two inches above the end of the ulna immediately anterior to the bone, and carrying it down between the bone and the flexor carpi ulnaris, and on in a straight line as far as the middle of the fifth metacarpal bone at its palmar aspect. The dorsal lip of the incision is then raised, and the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris cut at its insertion, and its tendon dissected up from its groove in the ulna, care being taken not to isolate it from the integuments, which would endanger its vitality. The finger extensors are then separated from the carpus, and the dorsal and internal lateral ligaments of the wrist joint divided, but the connections of the tendons with the radius are purposely left undisturbed. Attention is now directed to the palmar side of the incision. The anterior surface of the ulna is cleared by cutting towards the bone so as to avoid the artery and nerve, the articulation of the pistiform bone opened, if that has not been already done in making the incision, and the flexor tendons separated from the carpus, the hand being depressed to relax them. While this is being done, the knife is arrested by the unciform process, which is clipped through at its base with pliers. Care is taken to avoid carrying the knife farther down the hand than the bases of the metacarpal bones, for this, besides inflicting unnecessary injury, would involve risk of cutting the deep palmar arch. The anterior ligament of the wrist joint is also divided, after which the junction between carpus and metacarpus is severed with cutting-pliers, and the carpus is extracted from the ulnar incision with sequestrum forceps, any ligamentous connections being touched with the knife. The hand being now forcibly everted, the articular ends of the radius and ulna will protrude at the ulnar incision. If they appear sound, or very superficially affected, the articular surfaces only are removed. The ulna is divided obliquely with a small saw, so as to take away the cartilage- covered rounded part over which the radius sweeps, while the base of the styloid process is retained. The ulna and radius are thus left of the same length, which greatly promotes the symmetry and steadiness of the hand, the angular interval between the bones being soon filled up with fresh ossific deposit. A thin slice is then sawn off the radius .parallel with the articular surface. For this it is scarcely necessary to disturb the tendons in their grooves on the back, and thus the extensor secundi internodii may never appear at all. This may seem a refinement, but the freedom with which the thumb and fingers can be extended, even within a day or two of the operation, when this point is attended to, shows that it is important. The articular facet on the ulnar side of the bone is then clipped away with the forceps applied longitudinally.