312 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE. of a purely temporary nature, depending probably upon some defect in the general health, and that the curvature will either be arrested or be entirely cured as the muscles recover their normal tone. The disparity between the number of cases of slight lateral curvature coming under notice in early life and those in adults in whom the curvature amounts to an actual deformity proves that something of this kind must occur probably in the large majority of cases; the number of cases occurring in early life is extremely large whilst in adults it is much smaller. The cases most likely to end in spontaneous cure are those in which there are two slight and equal curves rather than a large C-shaped curve. The tendency of the small S-shaped curve is to spontaneous cure, as there is a proper compensation between the two curvatures, whereas the large single one tends to become greater and to result in very important rotation changes since there is no compensation. When the curvature is due to inequality in length of the two extremities the cases are very amenable to treatment if seen within a reasonable time, and a perfectly good result can generally be obtained. The opposite is the case when the curvature is the sequela of some chest disease, such as empyema. Perhaps however the most important feature in the prognosis is the condition of the patient's health. Scoliosis associated with profound ansemia is most difficult to treat and, unless a vigorous course of treatment directed to the cure of the ansemia be rewarded with success, the result upon the curvature will be very slight. The most difficult cases of all are those in girls soon after the age of puberty, in whom there is much ansemia associated with dysmenorrhoea, and, when these two conditions are com- bined with a distinct neurotic taint, the case may prove so rebellious as to be almost intractable. Another point of great importance is the age of the patient at the onset of the curvature. In a very young child the vertebrae are not fully ossified and are soft and easily moulded, and there is therefore a long period during which the spine if not maintained in its proper position may undergo serious structural alterations. On the other hand, if the disease begins comparatively late there is only a short time before complete ossification has occurred, and there is therefore but little time for advanced changes to take place in the vertebrae. The curvature will therefore develop much more slowly,^—a point which is very important with regard to treatment. TREATMENT.—Before proceeding to deal with the treatment of pronounced scoliosis it may be advisable to say a few words as to the means best calculated to prevent its occurrence in susceptible subjects. Prophylaxis. 1. When there is obliquity of the pelvis.—Any patient in whom there is inequality in the length of the lower extremities should invariably receive treatment directed to remedying the obliquity of the pelvis which will result. Cases of hip disease with deformity and shortening