THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 90 irritating antiseptics such as carbolic acid or even sublimate. Some benefit may possibly result from running a stream of warm boracic lotion through the tubes when the pus is very thick; but should a stronger antiseptic be employed, it will certainly cause irritation, and may, in fact,kill the superficial layer of granulation tissue and thus actually provide a nidus for fresh bacterial growth, or may open up a route for the entrance of organ- isms into the body. The risk thus produced is not counter-balanced by any germicidal action on the part of tlie antiseptic, for it cannot possibly exert any influence in combating the septic process. Fig. 34.—Interrui'Ted Plaster of Paris Splint for Wounds of the Knee Joint. The metal bands which maintain the interval between the plaster bandages around the thigh and those around the leg are bent outwards so as to allow dressings to be applied to the joint. When these dressings are employed, the wire splint should be placed outside the first few layers of gauze, and, as a rule, will not require changing oftener than once in three days. Even the slight movement inseparable from changing the spHnt is very apt to cause the patient severe pain, and it is best therefore, as soon as the discharge diminishes, to fix the limb in a plaster of'Paris apparatus so designed as to leave sufficient room for proper access to the joint and the application of the dressings. For this purpose nothing is better, in the case of the knee, for instance, than the interrupted plaster splint recommended for compound fractures (see Fig. 34). The plaster bandage is made to take a firm hold of the middle of the thigh and the middle of the leg, whilst the metafbars hold the two portions, firmly together and at the same time allow free access to the joint. Another splint that is useful either for the knee or for the ankle is the anterior suspension bar (see Fig. 35). Great care should always be taken to fix the limb in the position most serviceable to the patient when anchylosis afterwards occurs. For example,.