200 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. made there are particularly applicable to this joint and need not be repeated. It is important to bear in mind the great tendency to stiffness met with after gonorrhceal inflammation, and therefore, as soon as the acute symptoms have passed off, passive movement must be begun (see p. 102). SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS. The knee is the joint most frequently affected both in the secondary and tertiary stages. What has already been said with regard to the treat- ment of the various forms of syphilis of joints (see p. 138) may be taken as applying to the particular joint under notice. TUBERCULOUS DISEASE. This affection, which is more common in adults than in children, may commence either in the synovial membrane or the bone, probably more frequently in the latter. As age advances, the proportion of primary bone cases with sequestra as compared with soft caseating deposits increases very markedly. The osseous deposits especially affect the epiphyses of the tibia or the femur; sometimes, though rarely, they occur in the shaft of the bone outside the epiphyseal line, but this is more common in the tibia than in the femur—in which the internal condyle is the most common seat of the primary deposit. The patella is but rarely affected primarily. Nothing need be said about the course of the disease, as this has already been fully dealt with in speaking of tuberculous joint disease, in general (see Chap. XIII.). PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES.—The treatment is influenced to a certain extent by the particular form of disease present, and we may therefore describe the following :—• (a) Localised tuberculous deposits.—Here the disease has not infected all the structures of the joint. The deposits may occur either in the bone or the synovial membrane j in the latter they may give rise either to a localised thickening of the synovial capsule or to one or more pedunculated outgrowths from the synovial membrane hanging into the joint cavity. These deposits are unfortunately comparatively rarely seen, because the patient does not usually seek advice until the disease has spread over the joint, but they are of great importance because removal of the affected area may cure the disease and save the joint. The localised deposits iti the syfiovial membra?ie, more particularly the pedunculated forms, occur especially in the supra-patellar pouch, and may be felt there as masses which can be readily moved about and which may be confounded with loose bodies in the joint. They differ however from the latter in that the swelling is usually larger, and thickening of the synovial membrane can generally be made out in its immediate neighbourhood. These localised thickenings of synovial membrane, apart