SCOLIOSIS. 3'5 and the child either stoops forward or bends to one side so as to rest his elbow upon the desk at which he is writing. The want of proper proportion between the height of the seat and the desk also plays an important part, for, when the desk is too high, the right arm has to be unduly elevated if the child is to write, whilst if the desk be too low it has to be unduly depressed and the left shoulder raised. In a weakly child this may lead to the development of a marked lateral curvature. The following may be taken as the main points requiring attention to avoid these ill effects. The child slK)uld always sit upon a chair with a seat sloping slightly backwards, and this should be provided with a back inclined at an angle of 120° and so shaped as to support the curves of the lumbar and dorsal vertebr^e (see Fig. 81). The back of the chair should extend upwards as high as the shoulders in all cases, and, should the child be suffering from a weak spine, it should be prolonged high enough to support the head. The seat of the chair should be at such a height from the ground that the feet rest easily upon the floor, or should be provided with a suitable foot-rest inclined at an angle of about 20°. The breadth of the chair-seat should be equal to the length of the child's thighs. A vertical line let fall from the front edge of the desk should just touch the front edge of the chair-seat, and there should be just room between the two for the child's thighs. The precise measurements usually given are that the lower edge of the desk should be an eighth of the. height of a girl and one-seventh that of a boy above the seat of the chair. The writing desk should have a gentle slope so as not to force the child to bend forward too much when he wishes to read or write. Any myopia should be at once attended to, and the child fitted with suitable glasses, as otherwise the stooping it necessitates is likely to act very injuriously in producing curvature. Even in these cases it is well to employ exercises to develop the chest and to strengthen the muscles, unless the child be obviously perfectly robust. In addition to the exercises, massage should be employed; this is a most important factor in treatment and should never be omitted. The question of exercises will be dealt with immediately. 4. When there has been disease within the thorax, etc.—In some of these cases naturally very little can be done in the way of prophylaxis. In cases of Pott's disease and rickets, appropriate treatment for the disease will stave off the onset of scoliosis. In cases secondary to empyema or collapse of the lung, a certain amount of curvature is inevitable ; it may, however, be minimised by the use of suitable exercises mainly directed to bending the spine in a direction opposite to that in which the curvature is expected to take place. When scoliosis has developed.—The.se cases may be divided into four large groups : {a) the curvatures of infancy, (/') those occurring during