215 DISEASES OF THE KNEE JOINT. on the distal side of the epiphyseal cartilage the latter is apt to undergo premature ossification so that growth in the bone ceases. On the other hand, the simple paring of the surface recommended in arthrectomy quite avoids this risk. The chief objection to excision is that, as it is performed nowadays, the operation takes a long time and is accompanied by considerable shock and loss of blood; hence the operation is not to be undertaken lightly in weakly patients, in those suffering from tuberculous disease elsewhere—particularly in the lung—or in those who have renal mischief. For the majority of these patients the choice must lie between continuance of the expectant treatment and amputation. AVhen, however, the patient is vigorous and able to stand the operation, it seems much more reasonable to resort to it when the disease has arrived at this stage than to continue the expectant treatment indefinitely. Excismi.—The remarks already made as to the tourniquet apply to excision as much as to arthrectomy, and its use should therefore be avoided wherever possible. The best incision is a curved one with the convexity downwards, com- mencing over the centre of the lateral aspect of the joint, running down to below the tubercle of the tibia, and then curving upwards to a corresponding point on the opposite side (see Fig. 55). The flap thus marked out is turned well up so as to expose the whole of the capsule of the joint. The first question that arises is as to whether or not the patella should be removed. In most cases it is well to take it away, and the only real objec- tion to this is that the divided extensor may contract adhesions to the lower end of the femur rather than to the tibia, and there will not then be such good leverage as if the patella were left; this defect can easily be remedied by peeling off the periosteum from the anterior surface of the patella, and thus shelling the bone, as it were, out of the quadriceps tendon instead of dividing the latter transversely above the bone. The best way to do this is to have the skin flap held well out of the way, and to make a vertical median incision through the quadriceps from the top of the supra patellar pouch down to the tubercle of the tibia. This incision is very carefully deepened above until the muscular fibres are cut through, when the handle of the knife can be sunk between the muscle and the capsule and the two structures separated from one another. The periosteum over the patella is then turned off to either side with a raspatory, and the ligamentum patellse is split longitudinally. The muscle is now raised from the capsule of the joint on each side until the whole of the supra-patellar pouch and its lateral prolongations have Fig. 55. — Incision for Excision of the Knee. 'J'he lowest point of the in- cision should reach a little below the tubercle of the tibia.