WOUNDS. 83 organisms present upon it will be removed during its passage through the skin and subcutaneous tissues. This is of the highest practical im- portance, because it will not be necessary to open the joint immediately and to wash it out with an antiseptic; to do so would in the great majority of instances only irritate the joint quite unnecessarily. On the other hand, all the tissues superficial to the joint must be looked on as possibly infected, and treated accordingly. Thus the first step in the treatment will be to carry out 2. .thorough disinfection of the skin for a considerable distance around the wound; this should be done in the usual manner (see Part I., p. 161). When that has been done, the wound in the subcutaneous tissues should also be disinfected. For this purpose it is often necessary to enlarge the opening in the skin, and, considering the extreme gravity of these cases should the joint become infected, it is well to disinfect this part of the wound most vigorously; in most cases indeed it is advisable to apply undiluted carbolic acid. We must here give a special warning against an extremely common practice in these cases, namely, the introduction of a probe in order to ascertain whether or not the wound communicates with the joint. In the cases to which we are alluding there is no particular object in obtaining this information. It is far best to assume that the joint is penetrated, and to disinfect the wound in the skin and the soft parts without touching the joint. Beyond rendering it certain that the capsule of the joint is wounded—which is not a matter of the least importance—the only effect of employing a probe is the very possible introduction of septic material from the wound to the interior of the joint, and thus the precipitation of a disaster which would otherwise not occur. After the wound in the skin has been enlarged sufficiently to allow of free access to the soft parts and the application of undiluted carbolic acid to them, it is well to leave the wound widely open and not to insert any stitches. The irritation produced by the acid is probably sufficient to prevent union by first intention; at the same time, no drainage tube is necessary. The edges of the wound may be allowed to fall together, and the usual antiseptic dressings should be employed, whilst the limb is placed on a splint, with the joint in the most comfortable position. After-treatment.—-The dressings should be changed on the following day in order to ascertain the condition of affairs in the joint, but unless the temperature has risen considerably, or unless there be very severe pain and swelling in the joint, there need be no apprehension of septic infection. An injury of this kind not at all infrequently gives rise to considerable synovial effiision, and it is chiefly to ascertain the condition of the joint in this respect that it is advisable to change the dressings the next day. If after the lapse of 24 hours there be no sign of inflammation in the wound, if the temperature be low, and if there be no more pain than is to be accounted for by the effusion into the joint, it may be taken for