CHAPTER VI. DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. CAUSES.—Dislocation of the hip usually occurs in healthy adult males as the result of very severe violence applied to the lower extremity while the hip joint is flexed and abducted; similar-violence appHed to the fully extended limb is more likely to give rise to a fracture of the neck of the femur than to a dislocation. VARIETIES.—Two great groups of dislocations are met with: (i) The ordinary or regular dislocations of the hip, which again may be divided into two varieties, the posterior and the anterior dislocations; and (2) the rarer or irregular dislocations, in which there is co-existing injury to structures which remain intact in the regular forms. The points that have to be remembered in connection with these dis- locations are, in the first place, that the acetabulum is shallowest at its lower part, where it is also somewhat defective, and that a very strong ligament, called from its shape the Y-ligament, extends from the neigh- bourhood of the anterior superior spine of the ilium downwards across the front of the joint and ends in two bands, one of which passes vertically downwards towards the base of the lesser trochanter, whilst the other runs outwards more or less horizontally to be inserted into the outer and upper end of the anterior inter-trochanteric line. This ligament is extremely strong, and very great violence is required to rupture it. The condition of this Y-ligament is the principal factor which determines the production of any particular form of displacement; . in the regular dis- locations it is always intact. It is, moreover, one of the chief agents in aiding reduction. Another structure which plays an important part in dislocations of the hip is the tendon of the obturator internus muscle. This muscle arises from the inner surface of the obturator foramen and the fascia covering it, passes out of the pelvis through the great sacro- sciatic notch, where it is joined by the two gemelli, and with them is inserted into the digital fossa at the back of the femur. The tendon acts as a powerful reinforcement to the posterior part of the capsule of the