DISEASES OF THE HIP JOINT. 179 along the trunk and should pass through the loop of the perineal band so as to anchor the patient firmly. After the limb has been got into good position, and when the muscular spasm has subsided, a Thomas's splint may be fitted ; the double form should always be employed, as the single one is quite ineffectual in obtaining sufficient abduction. The splint must be worn for a consider- able time as otherwise muscular contraction will recur and the deformity will be reproduced. The apparatus should be worn for a year or two after the disease has come to a standstill. A great advantage of the double Thomas's splint is that the patient can be moved out-of-doors and can get the benefit of the fresh air. Until the disease has become entirely quiescent however it is not advisable to allow him to get about on crutches. Sometimes the contraction of the adductors may be so marked that extension fails to get the limb into proper position, and it may be necessary to perform fenototny; the adductors are divided close to their origin from the pubes. It is, however, very important that no force should be used to restore the limb to its proper position, as otherwise aggravation of the disease is almost certain to occur. Gentle steady traction will bring the limb out to a considerable extent, and then further abduction may be obtained in a short time by a suitable arrangement of the extension apparatus. The question of operation often comes up for decision in the second stage of hip disease, the particular form being excision of the hip, with as complete a removal of the diseased structures around as possible. Some surgeons are strongly in favour of operation at this stage, even before sup- puration has occurred, and they claim that, by an early and complete removal of the disease, the trouble is cut short and the danger of subsequent con stitutional infection is avoided. Supposing this to be correct, the great objection to early excision is the imperfect functional result that is obtained. Even with a stiff hip—so long as it is in good position—the patient has a much firmer and more satisfactory limb than he would have were the joint excised. In the latter case, the trochanter moves up and down over the side of the pelvis, and there is a great want of stability, the gait resembling very closely that of congenital dislocation. The com- plete removal of the disease from the hip is, however, hardly possible, even after excision. It is particularly difficult to remove the posterior part of the synovial membrane, and the surgeon often has to content himself with scraping this after he has removed the head of the bone. Moreover, it is by no means certain that early excision does avoid dis- semination of the tubercle. Since it is practically impossible to get rid of the whole of the disease as satisfactorily as can be done in more accessible joints, such as the knee, and since scraping a tuberculous surface not only usually fails to eradicate the disease, but is apt to lead to the very accident which it is wished to avoid, namely dissemination of the tubercle, the operation must be regarded with suspicion. A considerable number