203 DISEASES OF THE KNEE JOINT. Unfortunately this can rarely be the case, but where it is feasible the disease may be cut short, and it is always well to bear this possibility in mind when examining a case of tuberculous disease of the joint. Synovial masses.—Localised pedunculated masses have been more than once removed with great success. All that is necessary is to make a free incision over the mass and, after having arrested the bleeding, to incise the fibrous capsule, which should then be separated from the synovial membrane without opening the latter, after which the synovial membrane should be snipped through well outside the pedicle of the mass, and the pedunculated body with a little of the healthy synovial membrane in its vicinity thus cleanly removed. The joint should be flushed out freely with a 1-8000 sublimate solution to wash out any tuberculous material detached during the operation which would infect the joint if left behind. The capsule and the external wound are then sutured in the ordinary manner (see p. 227). After-treaiment—If there be any suspicion of commencing infection of the synovial membrane as a whole, a useful addition to the above procedure is to introduce about half an ounce of the 10% emulsion of iodoform and glycerine (see p. 120) into the joint cavity after squeezing out the fluid used for irrigation. The limb should be kept at rest for at least six or eight weeks after the operation, the splint being removed from time to time and passive movement carried out twice a week from a very early period, so as to prevent adhesion of the cut surfaces of the synovial membrane to adjacent parts.- The passive movement should, however, never be carried beyond this, and the patient must be content to risk a certain amount of stiffness, as it is impossible to be certain that the whole of the disease has been removed; movement would of course aggravate any disease left behind. After six or eight weeks, the patient may be allowed to go about as usual if there be no thickening of the joint left. Any adhesions that have formed will then gradually stretch or may subsequently be broken down. Should there be any thickening in the vicinity of the wound, how- ever, treatment appropriate to the first stage of the general affection of the joint must be adopted (see p. 205). Osseous deposits.—The treatment of tuberculous deposits in the bone is much more hopeful, especially if the deposit be situated in the internal condyle of the femur, provided always that the diagnosis can be made. This is often arrived at by finding a distinct enlargement of the condyle, the patient meanwhile complaining of a dull, deep-seated, aching pain in the bone, and limping on walking. Otherwise there is but little discomfort and very slight swelling of the synovial membrane or marked interference with the movements of the joint. There may be some tenderness on percussion over the bone. Under these circumstances, and especially if the patient has a marked tuberculous history, a primary osseous deposit should be suspected, and an operation undertaken for its removal. Even should the diagnosis be wrong, the only other conditions likely to be confounded with a tuberculous