THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS. This affection has already been fully described (see p. 147). It is not infrequent in the ankle, and the pain may be so great as to completely incapacitate the patient from walking. The question of excision of the astragalus may have to be considered here. The decision will depend upon whether the ankle is the only joint affected or whether several are attacked. Should the disease be confined to one ankle it is quite justifiable to relieve the patient's pain and enable him to get about by removal of the bone (for the operation see p. 72). CHARCOT'S DISEASE. The ankle is not Ififrequently affected by this disease, and, from the amount of pressure to which it is subjected, usually undergoes great dis- organisation. While the active destructive stage is going on, the patient should be confined to a couch or allowed merely to go about on crutches with the affected limb supported by a sling from the neck. In some months a certain amount of consolidation may occur, when it will be possible to allow the patient to walk wearing a suitable firm boot (see Fig. 58), pro- vided with lateral irons and a hinge at the ankle joint, so as to allow the ordinary movements of the joint without the possibility of lateral bending. When the ankle is the only joint affected and the patient is completely crippled, amputation either at or above the ankle joint is quite justifiable Fig. s8.—Boot for use in Charcot's Disease OF THE Ankle Joint. The band to which the leg irons are fastened should encircle the limb on a level with the tubercle of the tibia. if it will enable the patient to do his work better. SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS. Syphilitic disease of the tarsal bones is not at all uncommon, and the various forms of joint syphilis already referred to (see (^hap. XIV.) may be met with in the ankle, although more seldom than in the knee. Thickenings of the tarsal bones are not uncommon in hereditary syphilis; these are due to periostitis and may lead to considerable interference with