DISEASES OF THE ANKLE AND TARSUS. 229 the leg when the splint is applied. Perhaps the best splints for the purpose are Croft's lateral plaster of Paris splints (see Part III., p. 14). There is a great tendency to the formation of adhesions after all acute inflammations about the ankle, and therefore after the subsidence of the acute symptoms no time must be lost in employing massage and passive movements to break up the young adhesions. When there is suppuration in the joint.—This will be shown by increasing distension of the joint, great pain and severe febrile symptoms. It sometimes suffices to make incisions on either side of the extensor tendons over the front of the joint, but as a rule it is well to provide additional drainage through openings on either side of the tendo Achillis. It is a point of great importance to avoid wounding the tendon sheaths about the ankle, as otherwise a disastrous suppurative teno-synovitis may be set up. When efficient drainage has been provided, the case is treated on the lines already laid down for suppuration of joints (see p. 87). Care must be taken to keep the foot at right angles to the leg. The after-treatment will be similar to that just described. When there is also acute epiphysitis of the os calcis.— The risk of the inflammation spreading to the tarsal joints is an additional reason for early operation in cases of acute osteo-myelitis of the os calcis. Besides treatment directed to the joint {vide supra), means must be taken to cure the bone disease. When the disease is limited to the bone.—The bone should be exposed by a curved incision with its convexity backwards either over the inner or outer aspect of the heel, the periosteum incised, the compact bone chiselled through and the interior gouged freely out so as to afford exit for the pus. This treatment is the best and most efficient when the disease is seen in the early stages and is limited to the bone. When the disease involves neighbouring joints.—When, however, the disease has spread to the neighbouring joints, particularly the calcaneo-cuboid, it is best to amputate. If the tarsal joints only be effected, this as a rule should be done through the lower third of the leg, as it is particularly difficult to perform a Syme's operation without infecting the flaps. In some rare cases, when the osteo-myelitis occurs in the anterior part of the bone, there will not be the same risk of infection, and a Syme's amputation may be done. When the disease implicates the ankle joint and, in spite of free drainage and constant irrigation, the symptoms do not abate in two days, amputation below the knee is called for. CHRONIC SYNOVITIS. This is of comparatively rare occurrence in the ankle, and its causes, symptoms, and treatment are similar to those already described for the disease in general (see p. 105); when occurring in the ankle joint it does not offer any points of special interest.