SCOLIOSIS. Fig. 90. 327 so as to expand the chest, and the whole posterior surface of the Ijody should be applied to the surface of the table so as to efface the lumbar bend as much as possible. JVote.—The efficacy of most of the exercises from A to F can be increased by the use of dumb-bells from half a pound to five pounds in weight. I. Arms in tJiree positions.—{a) By the sides of the body, {b) Straight out, forming a cross with the body, {c) By the side of the head touching the ears, and as straight as possible. Breathe while resting in each attitude. Return in the same manner to the position of rest (see Fig. 86). These movements will exercise the pectorals, all the muscles attached to the scapula; and latissimi dorsi. 2. Raise each leg to the vertical, knee kept straight; return to the position of rest, the other leg immovable. Exercise of the psoas and iliacus and quadriceps extensor (see P'ig. 87). Fig. 87. 3. Bend the head to each side so that the jaw rests on the ground ; return slowly to the position of rest without moving the shoulders. The arms must be kept immovable, palms upwards. Exercise of rotators and lateral flexors of head and neck. Series B. General Instructions.—Same position as above, except that in each case the movement starts from the following position : the elbows close to the side, forearm bent upon the arm, fists closed, with the thumb side to the shoulder (see Fig. 88). I. {a) The length of the body (see Fig. 89rt). {b) In a cross (see Fig. Zbb). ic) Vertically upwards (see Fig. 89 b). {({) By the sides of the head (see Fig. 86 c). Exercise of biceps, and triceps, scapular and pectoral muscles, and latissimus dorsi. , Fig. 2. Move out each leg transversely, knee kept straight, the other leg immovable, return to the position of rest. Exercise of thigh muscles and muscles passing from pelvis to great trochanters (see Fig. 90). 3. Bend the head until the chin touches the chest; return slowly to the position of rest (see Fig. 91). Exercise of sterno-mastoid, anterior neck muscles, and splenius, com- plexus and posterior neck muscles.