DISEASES OF THE ANKLE AND TARSUS. 247 down to the bones. The toes are bent forcibly downwards, and from each end of this incision the knife is carried upwards on each side to the corresponding malleolus, and the upper ends of these two incisions are joined by a transverse cut across the posterior surface of the leg down to the bone (see Fig. 65). The foot is now fully flexed and the ankle joint opened from behind, when the soft parts are gradually peeled off from the front of the capsule of the ankle joint, the astragalus and the os calcis as far down as the anterior surfaces of the scaphoid and cuboid. The bones are then sawn across with a narrow-bladed saw through the lower transverse plantar incision and the whole of the posterior portion of the tarsus is thus removed. The lower ends of the tibia and fibula are then cleared and sawn just above the malleoli, leaving the front half of the foot connected with the leg by the broad bridge of tissues consisting Fig. 65.—Mikulicz's Operation. A. The iliicl: line indicates the cut.-ineous incision which is exactly similar on the outer side of the foot. The shaded portion indicates the amount both of the bony structures and the soft tissues usually removed. Sometimes the bone section is made as far forward as the bases of the metatarsals. B. The appearance of the limb immediately after operation. The prominent tissues on the front of the dorsum are well shown. C. The final result of the operation. As will be readily understood, the limb is easy to fit a boot to. The operation only merits the appellation of " complete tarsectomy " bestowed upon it in the text when the more extensive bone removal is practised, i.e. from the malleoli to the bases of the metatarsals. of the skin of the dorsum of the foot containing the extensor tendons, vessels and nerves. This operation may be modified when the disease extends further down along the tarsus by dissecting the soft parts off" the front of the foot as far down as the bases of the metatarsal bones, across which the bone section is made instead of across the scaphoid and cuboid as above described. After the bleeding has been stopped, the anterior portion of the foot is brought into the same straight line as the leg, and is united to the tibia and fibula with silver wire. The limb is then put up on a straight posterior splint, great care being taken to keep the bone surfaces in proper position. The lower end of the splint should be provided with a A B C