THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. body being. screened off with a mackintosh arrangement, and a strong stream of water gradually warmed up from 98° to 103° F., or even higher, is allowed to play upon it. "The time of day for taking the baths is immaterial, and patients have to wait their turn during the season often till late in the afternoon. They drink the water generally twice a day, eight to ten ounces at a time, but many patients cannot take so much as it sometimes causes dyspepsia and often constipation. "With regard to the frequency of bathing, we are often much handi- capped by the short time patients allow themselves for the course. With gout, rheumatism, sciatica, etc., it does not perhaps matter so much, but with rheumatoid arthritis it is very different. The disease itself is debilitating and, if the baths be taken either too often or too hot, the effects are not altogether satisfactory. In these cases I never order baths oftener than every other day, and, if the patient be able to stay about six weeks, a bath twice a week is about often enough, some gentle dry massage being given at home on two other days during the week. For similar reasons I am not inclined to order the baths hotter than about 103° F., although some go to 105° F. and even higher." A visit to one of these watering-places should extend over from three to six weeks, and the patient should be cautioned not to be disappointed should the immediate improvement be comparatively slight. It is not uncommon to find that the condition does not improve for some little time afterwards. Patients who are the subjects of confirmed rheumatoid arthritis should spend several weeks every year at these baths; one visit is of very little value. Super-heated air.—When a patient is unable to afford the time or money necessary for a visit to one of these resorts, the best local treat- ment is perhaps exposure of the affected joint to super-heated air. This may be readily done by means of the Tallerman apparatus,^ in which the joint is enclosed in an apparatus by whichu it is surrounded with dry super-heated air; it is essential that the air should be dry, as otherwise scalding may result. After the limb has been exposed to the hot air for a quarter to half an hour, massage and passive movement are employed and this should be done twice a day. If the trouble be only slight, exercise may be permitted to a limited extent; should there be pain on getting about, the patient should be wheeled out in a bath-chair or some suitable conveyance on every opportunity. Electricity.—Electricity is also of value in some of these cases, and it may with advantage be combined with the massage, the form of current used being the galvanic. A very weak current should first be employed, the electrode connected with the negative pole being placed over the upper end of the limb, whilst the positive electrode is applied in the ' The Dowsing radiant heat or the Greville electro-thermal baths at a temperature of from 300° to 400° F. may also be employed.