DISEASES OF THE ANKLE AND TARSUS. 233 arthrectomy should be done comparatively early. Tuberculous disease of the ankle has not the same tendency to recovery as in other joints, and moreover is frequently associated with tuberculous meningitis or phthisis. xA.nother point of importance is that the functional result after recovery without operation is not so good as when arthrectomy has been performed, and hence we do not advise that expectant treatment be persevered with unless steady improvement be taking place. This is the exact contrary to what we have advised for joints such as the hip, and is mainly dependent on the functional result after arthrectomy. Arthrectomy.—Arthrectomy of the ankle joint may be performed in various ways, but either temporary resection of the malleoli or removal of the astragalus is absolutely essential for free access to the posterior part of the joipt; some surgeons prefer one, some the other procedure. Our own opinion is that the best result, both from the point of view of complete removal of the disease and the functional result afterwards, is obtained by combining excision of the astragalus with the arthrectomy. The division of the malleoli does not seem to us to be so satisfactory, as the difificulty Fig. 59.—Incisions for Arthrectomy or Excision of the Ankle. A is the inner, B the outer incision. of obtaining access to the back of the joint is not entirely overcome, and, moreover, the area of cartilage and bone which has to be examined, and from which disease may have to be removed, is much greater and is not so accessible; any disease left behind is apt to infect the cut surfaces of the malleoli, whilst their union afterwards may not be quite accurate and deformity may consequently occur. Further than this, the astragalus is very commonly the primary seat of disease, and small sub-cartilaginous deposits may be overlooked ; and lastly, division of the malleoli in young children may interfere with the epiphyseal line. On the other hand, removal of the astragalus gives most admirable access to the whole of the joint, and by removing it the surgeon can make quite sure of taking away all the diseased synovial membrane and at the same time removing any deposits in the bone. The functional result is perfect, a freely movable joint being practically always obtained. We shall, therefore, only describe this method. Many incisions have been employed. We generally use a longitudinal incision in front of each malleolus, extending from about two inches above the joint to the centre of the lateral aspects of the foot (see Fig. 59).