THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. i66 joint very gently after all signs of acute inflammation have subsided, which will be in about two or three weeks, and, if this gives rise to no swelling or pain, a little more should be done on the following day, and so on, until the full range of movement is recovered. (c) Pyeemic.—Acute septic arthritis of the hip is most frequently met with in connection with acute epiphysitis of the upper end of the femur. It may occur also in pyaemia, although there the destructive changes are not so marked. In acute epiphysitis the infection of the joint is a necessary consequence of the anatomical conditions of the part, and the symptoms are extremely grave and acute. The patient is usually suddenly seized with pain in the hip, rigors are common, and the typhoid condition rapidly supervenes; there is marked swelling about the joint, and intense pain on movement or pressure. Treatment.—As soon as possible, an incision should be made into the joint; this is most conveniently done through the anterior incision already described (see p. 165). The joint is opened, the pus evacuated, the articular cavity flushed out with a warm 1-8000 subHmate solution and the condition of the neck of the femur e.xamined. Should the disease there be extensive and the patient's condition grave, the best plan is to remove the head and neck of the bone at once, and counter-openings should be made for drai?iage through the posterior part of the capsule. This can readily be done by pushing a long stout pair of dressing forceps through the posterior part of the capsule from the anterior wound, and making them project in the buttock as close as possible to the trochanter. The skin is then incised over the tip of the forceps, which are pushed through, the blades expanded so as to enlarge the opening, and made to grasp the end of the drainage tube (size No. 18), which is pulled back into the joint as they are withdrawn. When this has been done, the cavity left should be swabbed out with utidiluted carbolic acid, and the application of this to the cut surfaces of the bone should be especially thorough. The one point of danger in removing the head of the bone is that the organisms (which are extremely virulent) may spread into the cut surface and set up an acute osteo- myeUtis of the upper end of the femur; the saturation of the bone section with undiluted carbolic acid is therefore of extreme importance as a preventive. Before the wound is closed, a large drainage tube (size No. 20) must be introduced into the joint from the front. The ordinary antiseptic dressings are applied, the patient put back to bed, the trunk fixed between sandbags and the arrangement shown in Part III., Fig. 43, p. 117 is applied behind the knee to prevent rotation of the limb. In these cases it is also well to have a divided mattrass so as to avoid unnecessary movement. Even with this thorough treatment, it is as a rule impossible to com- pletely disinfect the whole of the wound, but if free drainage be employed,