RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS. '55 immediate neighbourhood of the joint. The current .should be passed for ten or fifteen minutes at a time, once or twice daily immediately after the massage, and after its application the limb should be enveloped in hot flannel. All patients who are the subjects of rheumatoid arthritis should wear flannel and should keep the joint thickly swathed in it. When there is considerable pain, some benefit may be obtained by using a liniment of one drachm of menthol to three drachms each of linimentum bella- donnas and linimentum camphoris. Another useful local application is a mixture of equal parts of guaiacol and olive oil painted over the joint and surrounded by cotton wool. The amlmlatory treatment.—The most difficult subjects to treat, and those who come most frequently under notice, are poor people who cannot afford to give up their work and who are of course unable to obtain massage, douches, or in fact any of the best methods of treatment. Here probably the best plan is not to aim at restoration of movement of the joint, but rather to attempt to get sufficient consolidation to prevent movement, and thus to some extent to enable the patient to get about without paiii as quickly as possible. For this purpose moulded splints may be employed to fix the joint; these are most useful when the pain is severe. The latter may be diminished to some extent by means of stimulating' liniments, such as that already mentioned, rubbed in night and morning, the joint being exercised at the same time. The patient should keep the limb well bound up in flannel and should be told to avoid exposure to cold and wet as much as possible. The joint may with advantage be firmly strapped with Scott's dressing before the splint is applied. A variety of other counter-irritants are frequently recommended, but they are apparently of very little value with the possible exception of the actual cautery (see Part I., p. 19) applied freely around the joint. This necessitates the patient lying up for something like six weeks, which in many cases is of course impracti- cable. The general hygienic, dietetic, and medical indications already given should be attended to. Operative measures.—In advanced and very painful cases of rheumatoid arthritis operative procedures may suggest themselves. Of these we shall con- sider drilling or gouging the ends of the bones in order to diminish the inflammation, the removal of osteophytes which interfere with the move- ments of the joint, excision of the joint, and various operations upon nerves, such as nerve-stretching, or freeing nerves that have become adherent around the joint. When there is very considerable pain and much enlargement of the bone ends, and when the joint is superficial, as for example the knee, considerable, though unfortunately only temporary, relief may be obtained by driving a drill into the enlarged bone or gouging a hole in it; of the two methods the latter is the more efficient. Gouging may be done