DISEASES OF THE HIP JOINT. 185 It is probably the region of the trochanter so as to enable the limb to come straight, or simple division of the femur below the trochanters. Of these plans the most satisfactory in the majority of cases are the two last. Excision of the joint is not to be recommended for the reasons already given (see p. 179). Sometimes however it may be called for when the deformity is very marked, as it may be impossible to get the limb straight by other measures; when excision is done, prolonged after-treatment is necessary in order to get a stable joint. When the deformity can be remedied by the removal of a wedge of bone of reasonable size, this should certainly be done, best to take the bone from somewhere about the junction of the neck with the trochanter; this leaves a large surface for union, and is in quite an accessible region (see Fig. 45). The shape and the size of the wedge will depend upon the exact nature of the de- formity. If it be mainly adduction, its base must be directed outwards and upwards; if there be marked outward rotation its base must be forwards, and so on. The neck of the bone is reached by an incision very closely resembling that for the anterior operation for excision of the hip (see Fig. 27). It commences just below the anterior superior iliac spine, and runs down- wards and outwards, along the anterior edge of the tensor vaginee femoris; it should be four or five inches in length. The incision is deepened, the muscles are pulled aside, and the junction of the neck of the femur with the trochanter is exposed, no structures of importance being divided. The wedge is best shaped by means of a chisel and hammer, as if a saw be employed it is apt to lacerate , . , , .j '■ '■ wedge also requires to be made wider the muscles or even the skin, in the upper behind than in front, as shown by the dotted lines. part of the mcision, whilst the amount of bone to be removed can be more accurately gauged if a chisel and hammer be used. When the limb is brought into position it will generally be found that the adductors at least require division, and the adductor longus may be divided by a tenotomy knife close to its origin from the pubes; any other tense bands should also be similarly treated. After removal of the bone it is best to try to obtain bony union, although some surgeons prefer a false joint. Others again simply divide the bone below the trochanters (see Fig. 46), but this is not nearly such a satisfactory Fig. 45.—Excision of a Wedge from THE Neck of the Femur in old Hip Disease. The wedge, which is excised throngh the incision seen in Fig. 27, is made with its base upwards and outwards for the deformity here shown, viz., fle.xion, adduction and inward rotation. The