226 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. the leg upon the thigh ; when the internal condyle has been dislocated, he should walk with the toes turned in and vice versa in the case of the external. (b) Of recurrent cases.—When the patient suffers from repeated attacks, it is out of the question to expect union of the torn cartilage, and a choice must be made between palliative or radical treatment. Palliative treatment.—The main reliance must here be placed upon massage applied mainly to the thigh muscles so as to strengthen them and enable them to fix the joint well; in addition, a special apparatus is often used to prevent inward displacement of the leg, and the patient is instructed to avoid rotating the limb when walking. The result obtained is, however, very imperfect, and we would strongly recommend that operative measures should be employed in all cases where the patient will consent. Operative treatment.—The exact form of opera- tive procedure to be adopted will depend largely upon the condition found when the joint is opened, and varies from partial or complete removal of the cartilage to merely stitching it back into place. In order to obtain proper access to the cartilage it is best to make a curved incision over the inner side of the knee with its convexity forwards (see Fig. 57). The flap is dissected up and all bleeding is arrested before the capsule is divided; this is done by an incision running just above the border of the inner tuberosity. The joint can then easily be inspected, especially if the limb be flexed. The condition of the cartilage is examined, and, if it be wholly or partially detached, it is well to remove it altogether; this can best be done by slipping a fine pair of blunt-pointed scissors into the joint along the cartilage and dividing it as far back as possible. The loose end is then dragged forward and the anterior extremity similarly severed. It is remarkable how little trouble patients have after its removal; indeed they do not seem to feel the loss of it at all. When the cartilage is merely split and a portion only is loose, the latter may be removed and the remainder left. When the entire circum- ference of the cartilage is detached from its connections but the extremities still remain attached, a cure may be effected by stitching the cartilage back in position; this should be done with the knee fully flexed and the stitches, which should be of catgut, must be made to take a firm hold of the cartilage on the one hand, and of the capsule of the joint and the peri- Fic;. 57.—Incision fouthe removal of the internal Semilunar Cartilage. The thick line indicates the incision in the skin, the dotted one that through the capsule. If preferred, the operation may be done by means of a flap in the re- verse direction, i.e. with its convexity backwards, the horns of the incision reaching from the centre of the inner border of the ligamenlum patellae to a point above the centre of the bone. The in- cision in the capsule is some- times made somewhat convex forwards and downwards. The one shown above is per- haps the most suitable on the whole.