31 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. not infrequently occur in young and vigorous adults, operation is often absolutely necessary to enable them to obtain a wider range of movement. A considerable number of cases have now been operated upon, even as long as eight months or more after the dislocation, in which the head of the bone has been replaced in position with most satisfactory results; in the more recent cases, at any rate, these results are far more satisfactory than those obtained by excising the head of the bone and leaving the long axis of the arm in its faulty position. Therefore in all cases of intense pain, and in all those where the patients are young and healthy, we should recommend that the primary aim of the surgeon should be to see whether he cannot replace the head of the bone by operation, and he should only proceed to the alternative of excising the head of the bone if he finds that this is impossible. The joint may be readily exposed by the incision recommended for fractures complicating dislocation (see p. 25); it should run along the anterior border of the deltoid from the outer aspect of the coracoid process, curving outwards and backwards at its lower extremity over the insertion of the deltoid, which should be detached from the humerus. The flap containing the deltoid is then pulled forcibly outwards, the deep fascia divided, and the pectoralis major pulled inwards by large broad retractors. This exposes the head of the bone and the structures to which it is adherent. The next point is to examine the position and condition of the vessels and nerves, particularly with regard to the question of whether they are adherent to the bone. The fibrous structures in the region of the anatomical neck should be carefully divided, and gradually detached from the head and neck all round by a periosteum detacher, taking care to keep quite close to the bone. If the vessels and nerves be adherent, they will of course be detached along with these structures, and thus the risk of their being torn is reduced to a minimum. After the head and neck of the bone have been fully cleared, forcible extension is applied to the humerus, either by an assistant who grasps the limb above the elbow, or by means of pulleys attached as above. While extension is being made, any resistant bands will be put on the stretch, and can be localised by the finger and divided. The next point is to investigate the condition of the glenoid cavity. It will almost invariably be found that the capsule is so distorted and adherent as to be of no use, and the glenoid cavity itself will probably be filled up with soft tissue. The latter should be carefully dissected out, so as to restore the cavity to its normal depth, and any remains of the capsule that can offer the least resistance to the re-position of the head should be entirely dissected away. The remains of the capsule are often of no use whatever, as a new capsule has to be formed. As a rule the head of the" bone can now be replaced, but in some cases of very long-standing it will be necessary to divide some of the muscles attached to the tuberosities before this can be done. The muscles most likely to require detachment are the supra- and