THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 152 nothing but minced beef or mutton with green vegetables, beef tea, and white of egg is a diet that is a good deal in vogue at the present time. With it is combined the consumption of large quantities of hot water between meals. The best drugs are iron, if the patient be anaemic, and arsenic; the latter should be ordered in the early stage of all cases. Guaiacol, in the form of guaiacol carbonate in five to ten grain doses, three times daily in cachets after food, is also recommended. Cod-liver oil is also most valu- able, especially for the poorer classes; it should always be given in quantities as large as the patient can bear without interfering with the diges- tion. It should be given at meal times, and should, in fact, be looked upon as an article of food. When cod-liver oil cannot be taken, pro- portionate quantities of fat should be added to the diet. (b) Local treatment.—A good deal may be done to arrest the process as far as possible, to prevent stiffness, and to relieve the pain, which is often considerable. Relief of pressure.—In the first place the joint should be relieved from all undue pressure or movement. When the lower extremity is affected, walking need not be prohibited unless the pain be very severe, but in stout and anaemic patients, it should be restricted as much as possible. When the upper extremity is affected, the limb should be supported in a suitable sling. Great care has to be taken to avoid injuries, such as twists or sprains, as these are well-known starting-points of the disease. Thermal treatment.—The local treatment which is most generally applic- able in all stages is a combination of the thermal bath with massage and movement, and the best results are obtained in the early stages of the disease. If possible, the patient should be sent to some watering-place specially organised for the treatment of these cases; this is far better than attempting to carry out treatment at home. The best thermal stations are Bath, Harrogate, Buxton, Droitwich, or Strathpeffer, in this country, and Aix-les-Bains abroad. Bath is probably the best for the majority of cases requiring treatment in this country; but, should the patient require a more bracing climate, or should he be markedly anccmic, Buxton or Harro- gate are preferable. The object of sending patients to these baths is not merely that they should take the waters internally, which no doubt are of some value, but particularly that they may obtain proper douching and massage; the chemical constitution of the waters does not seem to be a very important point. It is probable that the effect is gained rather by the diuretic and laxative effects of the large quantity of water consumed than by any specific substances that it contains. The essential point in the local treatment is to first expose the joint to heat, and then to employ massage and passive movement. When the patient is sent to a thermal station he should be directed to a medical man in the place who is well acquainted with and superintends the treatment. In order to give some idea of the course undergone by a patient at these