lOI INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. As soon as the pain has disappeared—which should be in two or three days' time—the pressure may be increased by applying an elastic bandage outside the wool, and at the end of a week or ten days a short course of massage and passive movement will generally restore the functions of the joint completely. In the less accessible joints, such as the hip and the shoulder, pressure is not so easily applied, and more severe counter-irritation is indicated. The application of one or more blisters, combined with rest to the articulation, will generally suffice. Constitutional remedies are of little or no avail in these cases. The ordinary specific remedies for rheumatism, such as salicylate of soda and salicin, are practically of no use; the best drugs to employ are quinine and iron. Quinine should be given in doses of three to five grains twice or thrice daily, and iron is useful when the patient is ansemic; it should be given in the form of Blaud's capsules in ten-grain doses three times daily after food. The patient should be careful not to expose himself to cold and wet, and flannel underclothing should be insisted upon. At the same time attempts must be made to cure the urethral affection as quickly as possible. Although the majority of these cases recover without any trouble, some of them are very obstinate; this is particularly so when the tarsal joints or the plantar ligaments are affected. Under these circumstances a change to a warm climate or a sea voyage is often required to effect a perinanent cure. (b) Of the ordinary acute variety.—Attention must be first directed to moderating'and arresting the inflammation; secondly, the effusion must be got rid of; thirdly, the risk of stiffness in the joint must be avoided. The limb should be fixed upon a suitable splint, and, if the lower ex- tremity be the seat of the mischief, the patient should be confined to bed. Indeed in the early stage the pain is usually so great as to practically prevent the patient from getting about. As in all other acute inflammations, the bowels should be cleared out by a sharp purge, and the diet should be light and nutritious; no stimulants should be given, at any rate in the early stages. The drug treatment is much the same as that for the variety already described. In the local treatment, after applying a splint (the best splints for the different joints will be referred to in speaking of affections of the individual articulations) measures must be taken to subdue the acuteness of the inflammation. In the early stages, and especially in superficial joints, such as the knee, the application of leeches is extremely beneficial. After the leeches have become detached, warm fomentations should be employed, with a little laudanum sprinkled on them if there be much pain. In the very early stages some authorities recommend ice in preference to leeches, but on the whole it will be found that the latter are more satisfactory. In many cases the pain, particularly at night, is so severe that a general narcotic such as morphine has to be administered. .'\fter rest and fomentations have been employed for a few days, the