252 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. a broad bandage passed around the thorax, and a weight applied by means of a stirrup fixed upon the upper arm, which is kept in the position recommended above (see Fig. 67). Extension is, however, not to be recommended, as in most cases in which the pain is so great as to call for it, the disease will be so extensive that operative interference is advisable. (b) Operative.—When there are abscesses in connection with the joint, the question of operation becomes more urgent. Here, as in the case of other joints, it is best to treat the abscess first, so as to cure or reduce it in size (see p. 134). * The same remark applies to disease of the deltoid bursa. We have not laid much stress upon the expectant methods, because we are strongly of opinion that early excision is of pre-eminent value in tuberculous disease of the shoulder. As the disease is essentially one of adult life, the question of excision will arise more frequently than in the other joints. In children, it is true, we should advise that operative interference be delayed as long as possible, as arthrectomy of the shoulder is neither an easy nor a satisfactory operation ; but in adults, in whom the growth of the limb has ceased, excision is almost the first thing to be thought of in cases of well-established disease. By it the progress of the disease is cut short, and the patient is given a movable arm which, though weaker than its fellow, is still greatly superior to an anchylosed joint, especially when the limb is in bad position. There is a further reason for advocating excision, in that shoulder joint disease is very frequently associated with or followed by disease of the lungs ; the exact connection between the two is difficult to understand, but it certainly is a clinical fact that a large number of patients suffering from this affection suffer also from phthisis, and, in a very considerable propor- tion, the latter affection only occurs after the joint di-sease has lasted for some time. Hence excision, which secures a useful movable joint with a short convalescence, eradication of the entire disease, and diminished danger of deposit of tubercle elsewhere, is distinctly preferable to expectant methods, which will demand a long time, leave the patient subject to risks of infection elsewhere, and at the best give a stiff joint which is of comparatively little value. Excision of the shoulder joint.—We recommend the following method. The patient should lie upon the back with a firm pillow or sandbag beneath the affected shoulder, which is drawn well to the side of the table. The surgeon stands on the outer side of the joint and makes. an incision about four inches in length, commencing just external to the tip of the coracoid process, and extending downwards and outwards parallel to the anterior border of the deltoid, dividing skin and fascia only (see Fig. 68). The arm should be slightly abducted and rotated outwards as the incision is made. The knife cuts almost directly down upon the thickened capsule at the upper part of the incision, while the tendon