88 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. suppuration profuse, or if there be abscesses around the joint or signs of osteo-myelitis or pytemia, an attempt to save the limb will probably be futile, and the best procedure is to amputate above the joint. Amputation.—When it is determined to amputate, the operation will of course be performed through the bone above the joint; in doing the operation, the medullary cavity at the seat of the bone section must be minutely inspected to see whether the inflammation has reached it. Should this be the case, either a second amputation must be performed higher up, or the remains of the bone or bones must be completely dissected out as far as the joint above. Drainage.—When it is determined to attempt to save the joint, the first essential is to provide free drainage, and the second is to fix the limb in such a position as will be most useful to the patient when recovery with anchylosis occurs. In order to establish free drainage, suit- able, incisions must be made into the joint so as to open up and drain every recess in it. Small incisions and small drainage tubes are of little or no value; the surgeon cannot well err in the direction of having too many tubes or too large incisions. The skin around the joint should be disinfected in the usual manner. When these incisions have been made, the joint should be well washed out with a weak antiseptic, such as 1-8000 sublimate solution, but no attempt should be made to thoroughly disinfect it; were this done, it would certainly result in failure, and could only give rise to increased irritation of the synovial memt)rane. After-treatment.—The two best methods are continuous irrigation and the use of the water-bath, and of these the former is preferable. Before continuous irrigation is performed, the limb should be fixed in a suitable position upon a splint, so as to completely immobilise the joint. The most satisfactory splint for this purpose is one made of wire-netting or per- forated zinc of suitable strength (see Fig. 31) cut to the proper shape and moulded so as to fit the limb accurately. The great advantage of this splint over any other is that the discharge cannot soak into it and make it foul, that it can be incorporated with any dressing or even applied next the .skin, whilst at the same time it is easily procurable anywhere, does not require to be specially made, is very cheap and can be readily sterilised by boiling. When the splint has been applied, irrigation should be provided. This has already been dealt with in Part I., p. 30, but we may recapitulate the principal points here. Continuous irrigation.—The skin around the wound should be smeared with some greasy preparation, such as eucalyptus or iodoform and vaseline, whilst the limb is placed over a bath or, if necessary, over mackintoshes, so arranged that the fluid issuing from the joint shall be conducted into a suitable receptacle. The nozzle of a tube from an irrigator, placed just above the level of the patient's body, should then be introduced into the orifice of one of the drainage tubes entering the joint at its highest level