258 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. When the condition is very acute, amputation through the upper arm may be required, and, when this is done, the state of the medulla must be carefully examined, for osteo-myelitis is not uncommon. Should the acuteness of the symptoms subside under inci.sion and drainage, it is well to excise the joint after a short time, seeing that a stiff elbow will other-wise be obtained, whereas excision gives a most excellent functional result. Moreover, septic wounds of the elbow are excessively slow in healing. ACUTE AND CHRONIC SYNOVITIS. Distension of the elbow joint shows itself by a fluctuating swelling on either side of the olecranon, which is increased on flexion. The move- ments of the joint are considerably interfered with, flexion particularly being diminished and causing considerable pain. The position assumed by the limb when the joint is distended is one of slight flexion which ultimately increases up to about a right angle. Treatment.—The first point in the treatment is to immobilise the joint and subsequently to employ compression; if there be much pain, an ice bag or evaporating lotions may be applied first. The elbow should be put up at a right angle, with the fore-arm midway between pronation and supination. The various methods of treatment for these affections have already been fully described (see Chap. XII.). RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS. This joint is often affected and the lesions are usually well marked. The condition not infrequently follows fractures into the joint, such as those of the olecranon or the condyles of the humerus. Osteophytic outgrowths are usually well marked and a villous condition of the synovial meml)rane is not uncommon, particularly between the olecranon and the condyles. Treatment.—The treatment of the affection has already been fully dealt with (see p. 151), and presents no points of special importance. LOOSE CARTILAGES. After the knee, the elbow is perhaps the most common seat of these bodies. They give rise to the usual symptoms and are most commonly met with in the olecranon fossa. Treatment.—When an operation is decided upon, it is best to make an incision upon one side of the olecranon, preferably the outer, extending from the top of the olecranon fossa down to the head of the radius. All bleeding in the superficial structures is arrested and the capsule is incised, when the finger is introduced into the joint, the olecranon fossa explored, and the loose body removed.