145 NERVOUS AFFECTIONS. proper mobility of the limb; under these circumstances, of course, the deformity does not entirely disappear when an anfesthetic is administered. Treatment.—This is often a matter of very considerable difficulty, and the best results are usually obtained in young patients in whom the line of the treatment must be to encourage movement of the joint, to excite interest in other matters, and so to distract attention from personal ailments, while it may also be advisable to impress the patient by the application of some painful counter-irritant to the joint. In adults, however, the treatment is very much more difficult, and it is most essential for success to acquire the patient's confidence. Nothing destroys this more than to treat the case as if it were trivial, to make light of the pain, and to set the patient down as an hysterical person with whom there is nothing the matter. The result is that the patient is disgusted and loses confidence in her medical man; when she does this, the sooner she calls in another the better. A very common plan is to place the patient under an anaesthetic, when complete relaxation of the muscles occurs, and then to apply a splint so as to prevent recurrence of the deformity when the patient recovers from the anfesthetic. The result of this, however, is usually disastrous. As the patient recovers from the anaesthetic, the muscles attempt to contract, and, being unable to do so, intense pain occurs; when the splint is left off fresh contractures often occur. (a) General.—It is well not to confine the limb in apparatus, but to encourage the patient to move the joint for herself. At first the amount of the movement may be left to the patient, in which case it will be only slight at first, but, as confidence is gained, the range will be increased. A great aid to this is the employment of massage, which should be persisted in steadily, and continued as long as the patient will bear it. With this will be combined gentle passive movement, gradually increasing in range. At the same time the general health must be attended to, and tonics, particularly iron, should be administered, cheerful surround- ings provided, and the patient's attention distracted as much as possible from her own ailments. The Weir Mitchell treatment.—In bad cases the employment of the rigid Weir Mitchell treatment is of the greatest advantage. This consists in secluding the patient from her friends and relatives, placing her in charge of a nurse, and employing proper measures for feeding. If the patient be allowed to remain at home, it is impossible to avoid attention being constantly called to the joint affection, and considerable sympathy will be manifested with her, notwithstanding any orders that may be given to the contrary. The Weir Mitchell treatment, by isolating the patient from her friends and relatives, prevents the possibility of this, and thus furnishes a powerful help to treatment. Besides this, the careful regular feeding and the employment of massage help markedly, and the majority of these patients improve wonderfully in their general health and may entirely PT. IV. K