THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 4 hesitation in performing it. Operation has the further advantage that, after removing the obstacle to reduction, the surgeon can also wash out all blood-clot (which might organise and produce adhesions) and may stitch up the rent in the capsule ; this last is of considerable importance in loose joints, siich as the shoulder, as a preventive against recurrence of the displacement. Further reference to this procedure will be made in connection with dislocation of the various joints to which it is most likely to be applicable. PREVENTION OF RECURRENCE OF THE DISLOCATION.— In certain joints recurrence of the dislocation after reduction is apt to occur owing to the ligaments being severely stretched or widely torn, or even to portions of bone being broken off. For example, in dislocation backwards of the elbow joint, which is often accompanied by fracture of the coronoid process, the displacement is extremely liable to recur unless some suitable retentive apparatus be employed for a week or two. There- fore, after reduction has been accomplished, means must be taken to prevent a recurrence. Often no special apparatus is required for this purpose; a simple bandage, which restrains the movements of the joint, is generally quite sufificient, but in. some cases, as for example the one we have just quoted, splints may be necessary. This point will also be more fully referred to in connection with the dislocations of individual joints. PRESERVATION OF THE FUNCTIONS OF THE JOINT.—This is a point of the greatest importance, for, after such a serious injury as dis- location, adhesions are almost certain to form if the limb be kept at rest unduly long. These adhesions will be not only within the joint itself, but in the peri-articular structures, and the result of unduly prolonged im- mobilisation will be that the surgeon is afterwards confronted with the difficult task of restoring movement in a joint from which it is almost entirely absent; in many cases, and especially in elderly subjects, this may be almost impossible. Therefore the functions of the joint will require to be maintained from the very first by means of massage and passive movements. In the majority of joints the tendency to displacement is not sufficient to cause any serious anxiety even when these manipulations are carried out from the very beginning. In most cases, therefore, we would advise that massage should be practised daily immediately after reduction, combined with suitable passive movements in all directions, until the functions of the joint have been completely regained. The exceptions to this general rule will be indicated later on. TREATMENT OF DISLOCATIONS COMPLICATED BV OTHER INJURIES. The treatment here must necessarily depend essentially upon the particular joint affected, and will be dealt with in fuller detail in con- nection with dislocations of individual joints.