THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 2 We shall here deal only with the first class of dislocations, namely, those which result from injury. CAUSES.—Exciting.—The cause of the dislocation may be: (a) indirect violence, as when a fall upon the hand results in dislocation of the humerus; (b) direct violence, as when a blow on the point of the shoulder dislocates the clavicle; {c) traction, as when, in lifting a child by the hand, the head of the radius is dislocated ; or {d) muscular con- traction, as in dislocation of the humerus caused by throwing a ball, playing single-stick, etc. Predisposing.—In addition to these, there are various predisposing causes of dislocation, such as : (a) The nature of the joint. Ball-and-socket joints such as the shoulder, are, from their anatomical conformation, more liable to dislocation than such well-fitting joints as the elbow. {b) The age of the patient. This affects the question in two ways. Dislocation is most common in the adult. In the young, a joint injury is more likely to cause a separation of the epiphysis; while in the old, the bones are more brittle, and therefore fracture is more likely to occur than dislocation. {c) The condition of the muscles which surround the joint. If these be waited from disuse or disease, or if they be, so to speak, taken by surprise, a force that would otherwise possibly produce no injury either to bone or joint may quite easily bring about a dislocation. TREATMENT.—From the point of view of treatment all dislocations may be considered according as they are (i) simple; (2) compound; or (3) of long-standing. Further, from the same point of view, any of these forms of dislocation may be complicated; {a) with fracture of the bone either in the immediate vicinity of the dislocated joint or at some distance from it; {l>) with severe damage—such as ruptiye—of vessels or nerves near the joint; {c) with simple pressure on nerves, leading to paralysis or paresis; and {d) with adhesion of vessels, nerves, and other tissues to the dislocated articular surfaces; this last complication is met with when the dislocation has existed for some time. TREATMENT OF SIMPLE DISLOCATIONS. The treatment of a simple dislocation must fulfil three requirements : (i) the restoration of the displaced articular surfaces to their normal positions; (2) the prevention of the recurrence of the dislocation; and (3) the preservation of the functions of the joint. REDUCTION OF THE DISLOCATION.—Obstacles to reduction. —The chief factors opposing the reduction of a dislocation are the following : (a) Muscular contraction. The muscles in the vicinity of the joint are usually in a state of spasmodic contraction from the irritation caused by the laceration of the ligaments and the presence of the articular end of the bone in a new position. One of the most important points in successful reduction is to overcome this spasmodic contraction.