INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. 107 care is necessary to secure perfect asepsis, as suppuration in a comparatively healthy joint is a very disastrous occurrence. An incision should be made through the capsule of the joint sufficiently large to admit a medium-sized drainage tube (No. 14), which is introduced well into the joint cavity, stitched to the skin, and surrounded by the usual antiseptic dressings. These dressings will require to be changed daily at first, and at less frequent intervals subsequently, according to the amount of discharge present. In most cases this treatment is sufficient to entirely subdue all tendency to effusion into the joint in about ten to fourteen days, when the drainage tube should be left out and the wound allowed to heal. As soon as healing has occurred, massage and passive movement must be begun and gradually increased in amount, so long as they do not pro- duce any further effusion. In the intervals, the limb should be strapped with Scott's dressing, and after about three weeks the patient may be allowed to get about, careful watch being maintained to see that no further effusion takes place. In the most obstinate cases, and particularly those in which there is a loose body in the joint, even this method will not succeed, and the most careful examination must always be made to ascertain whether any- thing of this nature is present. The most common condition keeping up this chronic synovitis is the presence of enlarged synovial fringes in the joint, a condition which will be referred to immediately, and therefore we are inclined to advise that, whenever the surgeon feels compelled to employ drainage of the joint, it is well to make the incision into the capsule sufficiently large to introduce the finger and to actually examine the interior, so that any abnormal condition may be at once dealt with. 2. Chronic synovitis with synovial thickening.—The thickening may affect either the surface or the substance of the synovial membrane. (a) Of the synovial fringes.—This condition is not at all un- common, and is frequently the primary cause of obstinate cases of chronic synovitis with effusion. The change in the synovial membrane varies from hypertrophy of a few fringes—generally at the point where the synovial membrane joins the cartilage—to an almost universal papillomatous condition of the surface. If one of these fringes be floated in water it presents an appearance exactly resembling that of seaweed. A micro- scopical examination of the fringes shows that they consist simply of fibrous tissue with loops of blood-vessels, without any marked signs of inflammation unless they have been repeatedly nipped between the articular ends, in which case they become swollen and inflamed. In some cases also there is a very marked deposit of fat in the fringes, so that large fatty masses hang into the joint—a condition that has been described under the name of " lipoma arborescens." This condition is but seldom described, and in many text-books is not referred to at all, probably because it is only in quite recent years that joints have been opened by exploratory incisions, and the condition