THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE. the bone in disease of the lumbar vertebrae. It is however impossible to deal satisfactorily with the bone disease in this region; in the first place it is too far away, and in the second place it is too extensive, and not sufificiently limited to one side to allow it to be properly dealt with. Sequestra may, however, be removed through the upper incision.^ (b) Of the disease in special situations.—The variations in treat- ment according to the situation of the disease have been already to some extent indicated. In disease of the upper cervical spine complete recum- bency should be enjoined until the case is practically well. Towards the later stages, however, when there is no longer any pain on movement and the patient is evidently in a fair way to recovery, he may be allowed to get about with a suitable apparatus. Of these the best is, as we have already said, a Taylor's brace with a ring support for the head (see p. 352). The common form of apparatus, viz., the jury-mast, is practically of no value and only leads patients and practitioners astray if they place trust in it. The support of the head piece should be taken from the shoulders as well as from the pelvis. In the cervico-dorsal or upper dorsal region a neck collar is absolutely essential if the patient is to be allowed to walk about, but here again we would strongly advise that he be kept lying flat until he is well. In disease lower down, in children, as we have already indicated, the patient should be kept in a Phelps's box or a double Thomas's splint with a head- piece until recovery has taken place; but in adults, the patients may be allowed to get about wearing a Taylor's brace after the acuteness of the disease has passed off. (c) Of the deformity left.—Recently Calot has proposed to straighten the spine forcibly, so as to get rid of the curvature and the pressure on the diseased surfaces, and this method has been carried out in a large number of cases. In some of these, striking results in the way of recovery from paralysis have been obtained, while in a few instances death has resulted. We do not describe the method, because we cannot recommend it, and we believe that as good results, both as regards reduction of the deformity and recovery from paralysis, will be obtained by the methods we have described above, more especially by double extension, as by Calot's forcible procedures, and with much less risk to the patient. We refer any one interested in the matter to the Transactions of the Cli?iical Society for 1898 and to the medical papers of November, 1897, for the discussion at the Clinical Society on this subject. DISEASE OF THE SACRO-ILIAC SYNCHONDROSIS. This disease may be primary or it may be secondary to disease of the lower lumbar vertebrae; in either case it is very often combined with ^ Upon the question of the removal of sequestra through a lumbar incision, the original paper by Mr. Treves, in the Med, Chir. Trans., Vol. LXVII., may be consulted.