DISEASES OF THE ANKLE. AND TARSUS. 243 drainage tube and the ordinary dressings are applied. The wound fills with clot which organises and heals rapidly, and after two or three months the patient may be allowed to walk. In the meanwhile, the foot should be encased in plaster of Paris as soon as the wound has healed, care being taken to see that the affected metatarsal bone is parallel to its fellows. IF/ieu the tarsal joints have become affected from extension of the disease to the synovial membrane, the treatment, if the case be seen sufficiently early, should be removal of the proximal end of the bone and excision of as much of the synovial membrane as possible. If the infection of the synovial membrane has not extended very far, this will sufifice to cure the affection and stop that generalised form of tarsal disease (see p. 244) which is so very grave. DISEASE OF OTHER TARSAL BONES.—Besides the bones already considered, the astragalus, the cuboid, the scaphoid, and the internal cuneiform are not uncommonly attacked. We need say nothing here concerning tuberculous disease of the astragalus; that has already been fully dealt with in connection with tuberculous disease of the ankle, of which it is frequently the primary cause (see p. 231). When the patient is young and there is evidence of disease limited to one part of the tarsus and involving one of these bones, operative treatment is far preferable to the expectant method—which of course consists essentially in putting the foot up in plaster or Scott's dressing, injecting iodoform emulsion and applying suitable splints, etc. (see p. 116) In these cases, however, the disease almost inevitably spreads over the whole of the tarsal synovial membrane and is very grave. It is particularly resistant to expectant treatment and is very commonly associ- ated with internal tuberculosis; therefore, no time should be wasted when the disease is limited to one bone or to one portion of the tarsus. The removal of individual tarsal bones does not really affect the usefulness of the foot at all. The scaphoid, the cuboid, or the internal cuneiform may be removed, and after a year or two it will be difficult to see that any important structure has been taken away. We would therefore strongly advise that, in all cases where there is undoubtedly disease limited to a portion of the tarsus, a partial tarsectomy should be performed; even though the bones themselves be not involved, the removal of a bone such as the internal cuneiform gives better access to the diseased synovial membrane, does not damage the foot and assists recovery to a remarkable extent. Excision.—The internal cuneiform may be removed by a longitudinal incision made directly over its inner aspect, and carried down to the bone; the soft parts are dissected up, and the ligaments divided upon the dorsal and inner aspects. The bone is then seized with forceps, the toes forcibly pulled outwards and the ligaments on the outer and posterior aspect are •divided with a long narrow knife, when, by twisting the bone, the plantar