TUBERCULOSIS. adults, excision is the best method, with the possible exception of the ankle joint, in which arthrectortiy may be recommended. In weakly indi- viduals, elderly subjects, or in cases where the joint disease is very extensive, or where there is tuberculous disease elsewhere, amputation will be called for. 5. General synovial disease without destruction of the cartilages or inflammation of the bone, and without abscesses.—These cases are the most satisfactory from the point of view of expectant treatment, and there is no need to consider the question of operation until it is evident either that no progress is being made or that the local disease is extending. An exception, however, may be made in the case of bread- winners, to whom it is imperative to get back to work within a reasonable time ; in them it may be necessary to resort to operative measures earlier, so as to restore them to health more rapidly. When the patient is well- to-do and can afford plenty of time, the first thought should always be of palliative measures. The hygienic, dietetic, and medicinal treatment should be attended to (see p. 114). In the local treatment, the first point is fixation of the joint without extension. Besides this there is the choice between injections of iodoform and glycerine. Bier's congestive method, counter-irritation, and pressure. On the whole it is perhaps best to begin with pressure, which can be most conveniently exerted in the majority of the joints by Scott's dressing (see p. 119). Should no improvement take place in two or three months, iodoform and glycerine injections should be resorted to, combined in the less severe cases with Bier's congestion method (see p. 122). It is essential to remember that in all these cases of synovial disease many months at least must elapse before the case can be considered cured; indeed it is better to reckon the time in years than in months, and two or three years should be looked upon as quite a'short limit. Should the treatment be abandoned too soon and the patient allowed to move the limb freely or to bear weight upon it, the disease is almost certain to recur, when it will probably take a much worse form than in the first instance. It is far better to err on the side of waiting too long than to run the risk of a recurrence. The chief difficulty in carrying out prolonged treatment of this kind is that the patient is afraid that the limb will become stiff, and while this is no doubt frequently the result, it must be impressed upon him that it is more or less unavoidable ; at the same time, however, it is found that in many cases in which the disease has undergone arrest before destructive changes are very far advanced, con- siderable movement and in some cases even a perfect joint results. This is far more likely to occur after prolonged rest than after attempts have been made to keep up movement during the treatment. As long as movement is allowed, inflammation will continue, and fresh cicatricial tissue will continue to form, so that there will be more adhesions inside the joint and greater contraction of the fibrous structures outside. If the joint be kept properly