TUBERCULOSIS. value in pure synovial disease or in the more superficial joints, such as the knee. The cautery should be freely applied at a white heat, and should be passed rapidly two or three times over the skin; the burned area should be fairly extensive. In the spine, the cautery should be applied along each side of the spinous processes over the whole of the affected region. For the hip or shoulder joints, a burn two or three inches broad should be made in front of and behind the articulation. After the cautery has been used, warm boracic fomentations are applied until the slough has separated, ■when savin ointment, diluted with an equal part of vaseline, and mixed with 5% of cocaine or an equal quantity of orthoform should be used, and the sore thus resulting should be kept open if possible for about six weeks. The best results are probably obtained when only a superficial portion of the cutis is destroyed, and when, therefore, many nerve endings are exposed. The chief objection is, however, that it is very difficult to keep these sores from healing rapidly, whilst the savin ointment often causes so much pain that it ha^ to be abandoned. When the sores heal too quickly they must be opened up again, either by a fresh application of the cautery or by potassa fusa. The cautery should of course be applied under a general antesthetic, preferably gas. Free incision,—Another method of treatment, namely, free incision into the inflamed tissues, which we have already described in speaking of chronic inflammation, has also been used in tuberculous joint disease. In chronic periostitis of a non-tuberculous nature this is a most effectual remedy, and a good deal of improvement has followed free incisions through the thickened synovial membrane in cases of tuberculous joint disease. At the same time, however, there are other operative measures of greater value, and therefore simple arthrotomy, or free incision into the diseased joint, has practically been abandoned. Pressure.—Pressure is also one of the methods employed to overcome chronic inflammation, and it is of considerable value in tuberculous joint disease. It is, however, mainly of use in cases of pure synovial mischief; it should be very carefully employed and must be given up if it produces pain. The usual method of employing it is by strapping the Joint 7vitli Scott's d?-essing, i.e. unguentum hydrarg. comp. spread upon chamois leather; this -is cut into strips about two inches wide and long enough to more than surround the joint. The skin should be shaved and the strips applied, overlapping each other, beginning below; as each strip is applied, considerable pressure should be brought to bear on it, just as in applying ordinary strapping. Scott's dressing ensures a combination of mild counter-irritation with pressure, and it is well to surround it with a mass of cotton wool, over which may be applied an elastic bandage, but the latter must not be tight enough to cause definite constriction. A good substitute for cotton wool is the material known as silk waste, which has the advantage that it retains its elasticity longer than does the