DISLOCATIONS : GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. 7 marked alterations in the capsule of a joint which is the subject of an unreduced dislocation; it becomes shrunken and altered in shape, and there are such extensive adhesions both to the structures around and to the articular surfaces that the end of the bone can no longer be got within the capsule. Lastly, changes take place with such remarkable rapidity in the articular ends of the bones themselves that the bone surfaces no longer fit each other when the dislocation is reduced, and therefore displacement is apt to recur i»n the slightest provocation. It will be obvious from what has just been said that the treatment .must vary according to the length of time that has elapsed since the dislocation occurred. The first point that will naturally come up for consideration is whether it will be possible to reduce the dislocation by the same mani- pulations that would be called for were the injury recent. This of course depends entirely upon the changes that have occurred in the joint and the articular surfaces. These in their turn are governed by the length of time that has elapsed since the dislocation, and vary within some- what wide limits, so that it is therefore impossible to lay down any very definite time within which it is wise to attempt such a reduction. Speaking broadly, however, we may say that in the case of the shoulder it is seldom that a dislocation can be reduced by simple manipulation after three or four weeks have elapsed since the injury, and it is hardly safe even to attempt reduction after a period of seven weeks. We shall have to refer to the subject again when dealing with the unreduced dislocations of individual joints. Should the time that has elapsed be too long to render an attempt at reduction advisable, or should such an attempt have been made and have failed, there are three courses open to the surgeon. After a certain time the displaced end of the bone tends to form for itself a fresh joint in its new position, and this in some cases may prove so serviceable that it is quite as good as any that could be obtained for the patient by any operative or other measures. Under these circumstances therefore the surgeon will be well advised to leave the case to nature. In many cases, however, the displaced bone presses upon nerves and causes great pain, and moreover the movements are generally so imperfect that something must be done to give relief. The second course is to cut down upon the displaced ends, replace them in position, and thus more or less completely re-establish the joint. This fortunately is sometimes possible, even when a long time has elapsed since the accident. Before the end of the bone can be got into place, it is usually necessary to divide a number of structures—particularly muscles—surrounding the joint, and it is further imperative as a rule to mechanically alter the shape of the joint surfaces so as to restore their original contour and thus to prevent spontaneous recurrence of the dislocation. The actual chances of success from this procedure can however only be ascertained after the surgeon has cut down and obtained direct inspection of the parts. If it be possible to replace