326 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE. properly instructed by a skilled person, e.g., a doctor or a gymnastic master. More rapid progress is, however, made by having one of the daily lessons performed at a gymnasium, even where not more of the apparatus than would be fitted up in the patient's house is used. The patient will then be sure of having at least one lesson efficiently, properly, and regularly performed. As the strength improves, more rapidity is obtained in the improvement by the use of the new developing machines. The gymnasium is very advantageous, but the whole cure can be done at home, and need not interfere with lessons or any other business. All the exercises herein detailed are meant to be performed with slowness, ease and grace, without jerking or holding the breath. No exercise is to be continued after the first feeling of fatigue is induced. There should be a rest between each, the length of which should depend upon whether the exercise has been one requiring little or much expenditure of energy. It is advisable as far as possible to interpose an exercise inducing little force between two requiring more. In the different exercises a pause should intervene in moving from one position to another, and before commencing the following exercises the patient must practise breathing properly. He must inspire as freely and deeply as possible through the nose, without strain, then, with the mouth open, expiration should follow at once without effort, being performed by the elasticity of the chest and lungs alone. Both movements should be easily and regularly per- formed and a short rest should follow each expiration. After each set of three double movements there should be a longer rest occupied by at least three ordinary breaths. N.B.—Most of the exercises down to Series G are taken from an article by Madame Nageotte-Wilbouchewitch published in the Presse Medicale of October 14, 1896. HOME EXERCISES. These exercises commence with very mild ones and gradually work up to ones requiring more strength. The first are performed lying down either prone or supine. The next series are made leaning against the wall or other support. The patient then performs the same exercises standing without support. This order is taken because the patients are mostly too feeble at first to do exercises standing for more than a few minutes and therefore tend to assume bad positions. The recumbent position, as before remarked, is a good one for redressing the curves. In an-anging the patient perfectly straight, some assistance may be derived from the pattern of the carpet or the lines on the floor. The upright exercises should be performed before a glass. Dollinger, of Buda-Pesth, fixes black tapes across the glass which then act as lines of mark. This is a very useful addition, as it enables patients to place themselves in a mesial position and easily makes evident to them any inequality of the height of the shoulders or of the subaxillary spaces. Series A.—Lying on the back. General Instructions.—The patient lies down on the floor or table, heels together, shoulders at the same level, head straight, arms extended by the side of the body, palms facing upwards. The shoulder blades are to be pushed back