211 DISEASES OF THE KNEE JOINT. membrane with some suitable blunt instrument. When this is done, the whole of the lateral portion of the synovial membrane on each side can be removed entire by puUing the soft tissues first to one side and then to the other and detaching the synovial membrane from the articular edges of the femur and the tibia. The last point is the question of how to deal with the posterior part of the synovial membrane. In many cases this can be removed without dividing the crucial ligaments, which it is of the highest importance to leave intact, if it be desired to obtain a movable joint afterwards. It is possible with care to gradually effect the separation of the synovial mem- brane from the capsule backwards into the popliteal space by means of the finger and a blunt instrument, and to separate it from the important structures there, when, on fully flexing the knee, the finger can be passed across from side to side and upwards and downwards throughout the whole extent of the synovial membrane. When this has been done, all that remains is to detach the structure from its insertion into the articular cartilage. The popliteal artery can always be felt pulsating behind the finger and forms a useful guide in the manipulations. The articular surfaces must now be carefully examined, and wherever there is any greyness, roughness, or undue vascularity of the cartilage, its surface should be shaved off with a sharp knife and any pits in it care- fully cut out; if there be a hole in the cartilage leading down to the bone, this should be scooped out, first with a knife and afterwards with a sharp spoon or suitable gouge. The bleeding is finally arrested and the divided ligaments sutured. If the crucial ligaments have been divided, as they will generally have to be —it is best to divide them about their centre—they should be united by one or two catgut stitches; the lateral ligaments should be similarly treated. A hole is drilled in each half of the patella, through which a silver wire is passed to unite the two fragments; this is exactly similar to the operation for fracture of the patella (see Part III., p. 136). The wound is now sewn up without any drainage, antiseptic dressings are applied, and the limb placed upon a suitable splint. If possible, the operation should be carried out without using a tourniquet. It is far easier to distinguish the exact limits of the tuber- culous tissue when the surface bleeds freely, and, as a matter of fact, there is probably more blood lost when a tourniquet is used than when the operation is done without it, whilst the healing of the wound is certainly better. After the tourniquet is removed, there is considerable capillary oozing, which may not be satisfactorily arrested by ligature; the result of this is that, after the wound is sewn up, there is bleeding into the joint and healing is materially impaired. When no tourniquet is employed there is no vascular paralysis, and, while the vessels bleed freely when divided, they can at once be clamped and tied, and therefore when the operation is finished the surface is practically dry. Further than this,