91 WOUNDS. the knee joint should be slightly flexed; the elbow should be bent at a right angle with the fore-arm midway between pronation and supination; when the shoulder is affected, the elbow should be directed slightly away from the sidej in the case of the wrist the metacarpus should be thrown backwards; in the hip, the lower extremity should be slightly abducted and completely extended ; in the case of the ankle, the foot should be at right angles to the leg. As the discharge diminishes and becomes less purulent, the drainage tubes may be gradually dispensed with, and the counter-openings allowed to heal. Gentle passive movement should be attempted as soon as the wound has become superficial, but the greatest care must be taken in this respect, because recrudescence of the inflammation may easily be brought about by it. It is, however, a point of importance, because, should passive movement be possible before bony anchylosis has occurred, we may be able to obtain a restoration of some degree of movement in the joint. Fig. 35.—Anterior Suspension Bar for Wounds of Joints. The figure shows the splint applied for a wound of the knee joint. The metal bar is secured to the limb by plaster of Paris bandages above and below the joint, which is left free for the application of dressings. The apparatus is slung from a cradle by the two hooks shown above. The movements should be carried out so as not to cause pain to the patient, and steadily increased in range from time to time. In some very rare instances more or less complete restoration of movement has taken place. Wherever some amount of movement remains and no increase of inflammation is produced by the passive motion, this should be persevered with for months if necessary in the hope of obtaining a useful joint. On the other hand, should bony anchylosis have occurred, the joint must be left alone. Any attempt to promote movement by breaking up the bony union will not only result in failure as far as movement is concerned, but may very readily light up the inflammatory condition once more.