SPRAINS. 79 the sitting, the rubbing will be borne without complaint. After the massage is finished, cold should again be applied for the next twenty-four hours, and the limb left upon the splint. Massage should then be repeated, and on the second occasion it will probably be found possible to continue it for at least half an hour with great comfort to the patient, and, if the effusion be not very great, it will be well to employ it twice instead of once. At the end of the second day pressure may be employed in the intervals between the massage. Several layers of cotton wool in even • sheets, free from lumps, should be applied around the joint, and outside this a bandage should be very firmly applied. If enough cotton wool be put on, the bandage may be drawn as tight as the surgeon is able to pull it, without any risk of undue pressure being exerted. This bandage may be left on until the next day, when it is removed for the repetition of the massage. At the end of the third day it will be safe in the ordinary slight cases to leave off the splint and to trust to massage and bandaging to complete the cure. The bandage best suited to the case is the elastic form. 2. Severe sprains. For the first few days the joint should remain upon the splint originally applied, regarding which it may be remarked that the position chosen for the limb should be that which combines the maximum of comfort to the patient with the maximum of usefulness of the limb subsequently should it by any chance become stiff. After the lapse of three or four days a Croft's splint, or a suitably moulded leather or poro- plastic casing fixing the joint, should be substituted, and this may be applied over the cotton wool, through which firm pressure is exerted when the splint is fastened up. The massage should be continued twice daily, and it will generally be found that the patient is able to bear it, applied with increasing vigour, for a gradually increasing period. After the third day the limb should be carefully moved each time before the massage is employed. The passive movements should be ex- tremely gentle at first, and gradually increasing in range as the patient is able to bear them ; care must be taken in practising them not to throw any strain upon the injured ligaments. For example, should the injury be mainly in the internal lateral ligament of the knee joint, the greatest care must be taken in practising passive movement not to deflect the leg out- wards at all. It will be found that, if treated in this way, the majority of simple sprains where there is no widespread rupture of ligaments will be quite well in ten days or a fortnight. Treatment, however, should not be dis- continued for another two or three weeks, during which time massage should be diligently practised, and in the intervals the patient should wear either a cotton wool or a7i elastic bandage. Indeed, it is well after the more severe type of sprain to, make the patient continue to wear the bandage for six weeks or more, rather with a view of giving him a sense