SCOLIOSIS. should have the deformity remedied as far as possible (see Chap. XIX.), and should then be fitted with a high boot so as to make the two limbs the same length. Cases of congenital dislocation of the hip should receive appropriate treatment (see Part II. p. 130), or, if it be impossible to get the head of the bone into position, a high boot or a suitable apparatus should be fitted. An apparatus will also be recjuired for cases of arrest of development in infantile paralysis, whilst genu valgum and flat-foot should be treated upon the lines laid down in Part II. 2. When heavy weights are carried upon one side.—Here the obvious prophylactic remedy is to see that any weight likely to produce curvature is carried alternately upon the two sides. It is especially necessary to instruct nursemaids to carry children alternately ujjon either arm,—an order that will benefit both child and nurse alike. In the somewhat rare cases in which one arm is lost, it is difficult to carry out this rule and therefore all that can be done is to attempt to prevent the patient from carrying heavy weights, or, if enough of the limb remains to allow an artificial limb to be added the weight should be carried alternately by the natural and the artificial limb. 3. When there is weakness of the spinal muscles, etc.—The prophy- lactic measures in these cases are mainly the ordinary rules for personal hygiene, but there are one or two points to which special attention should be paid. In the first place all weakly children or those suffering from rickets should be invariably carried in the horizontal position; they should never be carried upright in the nurse's arms, and even when the child is perfectly strong and healthy this should only be done provided that the child be carried alternately on either arm. The use of massage to the back muscles combined with applications of sea-water douches recom- mended for kyphosis (see p. 306) is of considerable value. Every weakly child should have the back muscles carefully rubbed night and morning for from five minutes to a quarter of an hour at a time. • Special care is needed in the case of girls who are growing fast and are nearing the onset of puberty. All heavy or constricting garments about the chest or abdomen which interfere with the free play of the thoracic, abdominal, and spinal muscles should be forbidden, and the child should be encouraged to play games, to lead a healthy out-door life, and to go through a mild gymnastic course. Sedentary habits, the desire to remain in the house in the recumbent position constantly reading novels should be checked, and in fact the life of the two sexes should be assimi- lated as much as possible. Girls who ride on horseback and in whom there is any tendency to curvature should always be made to ride upon a reversible saddle so that the exercise can be taken on alternate sides, and the rides should never be long enough to produce fatigue. Any menstrual irregularities must receive careful and prompt attention. vStays of any kind are bad, and if employed they should be made so as not to compress the chest, their function being merely to support the spine.