THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE. 282 DISLOCATION AND FRACTURE-DISLOCATION. The severe injuries already mentioned (see p. 276) may also produce dislocation of the spine—or more commonly fracture-dislocation. DISLOCATION.—Dislocation of the spine is practically confined to the cervical region. In it the articular processes become displaced from one another on one side or both, usually the latter, and the intervertebral disc and the common ligaments are also lacerated. The upper part of the spine is practically always displaced forward. Accompanying the dis- location are degrees of paralysis varying according to the injury inflicted upon the cord, and there is also pressure upon the nerves passing through the intervertebral foramina. True dislocation of the spine is very rare and hardly calls for special mention. Owing to the smallness of the bodies and the large size of the spinal canal in the cervical region, the damage to the cord is not usually so extensive as when the injury occurs lower down, so that in some cases marked benefit may result from the reduction of the dislocation. Eeduction.—The attempt to reduce these cervical dislocations should in the first place be made without operation by placing the patient under an anjesthetic, making extension by grasping the occiput with the one hand and the chin with the other, while counter-extension is made by fixing the shoulders and trunk. The extension must be made in the upward and backward direction, and in some cases the dislocation is reduced with a sudden jerk or snap; it is not uncommon however for reduction to be followed by sudden cessation of breathing which necessitates recourse to artificial respiration for a few minutes. If it be found that the dislocation cannot be readily reduced, operation is advisable. The surgeon must expose the seat' of dislocation and divide any structures that interfere with reduction; these are most likely to be the superior articular processes of the vertebra below the seat of dislocation. If the articular processes have to be removed, it is well to drill the transverse and spinous processes above and below the dislocation and to wire them together so as to prevent subsequent displacement. The wound is closed and, after the dressing has been applied, it is well to apply a moulded poroplastic splint which takes purchase from the shoulders, and embraces the neck, the chin and the occiput; if necessary, this may be strengthened by suitable pieces of metal; the whole head is thus fixed, and the risk of fresh displacement avoided. FRACTURE-DISLOCATION. — This injury is a combination of fracture and dislocation, and may result either from direct or indirect violence; the latter is the commoner, the spine being forcibly bent. Frac- ture by direct violence is rare, but it may be caused by severe kicks, blows or the passage of heavy structures across the spine, and it is most frequent in adult labouring-men as the result of a fall from a height. The spine may be fractured in any portion of its length, and any of the con- stituent parts of the vertebrae affected may be broken. It is most common