23 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. After-treatment.—-After the dislocation has been reduced, means must be taicen to prevent recurrence which is very likely to result from any Fig. II.—The Heel-in-Ax:lla Method of Reducing Dislocations of the Shoulder. Final Singe. When full extension has been made, the limb is swung across the middle line and the head of the bone should slip into place. injudicious movement while the rent in the capsule is still unhealed. Some restriction must be placed upon the movements of the joint, at any rate during the night, when it is well to bind the arm firmly to the side by a handkerchief or a bandage; during the day it usually suffices to keep the limb supported in an elbow-sling. While guarding against the danger of recurrence, the opposite error of an unduly strict immobilisation of the joint must be carefully avoided, because, should the arm be kept at rest for any length of time, adhesions in the joint are very likely to result from the accident, and this is a very difficult condition to deal with in the shoulder. Passive movements and massage should therefore be commenced not later than a day or two after the injury. The joint should be carefully moved by the surgeon, and massage of the muscles surrounding it should be employed. In performing movement the risk of the head of the bone slipping out of the capsule must be guarded against by keeping the arm welf rotated inwards when the limb is abducted. In the intervals between the movements the patient should keep the arm in a large elbow-sling, which should not be fastened to the side during the day ; he should be encouraged to move the limb, and to use it for any purpose so long as he does not take it out of the sling. For a week or ten days however the arm should be bound to the side at night lest the displacement recur from any sudden movement during sleep. We would especially warn the practitioner against keeping the arm at rest too long. The results, especially in elderly subjects, are most disastrous. The shoulder joint becomes practically useless, and no treatment, however