94 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. A mistake very commonly made in these cases is to defer the massage and passive movement for too long a time on account of the pain that may accompany their use; it is extremely important to remember that the young adhesions themselves are often highly sensitive, and one must not, therefore, be guided entirely by the amount of pain experienced on movement. The best guide as to whether movement is doing good or the reverse is the absence or presence of swelling in the joint after its employ- ment; should swelling occur, it is clear that a certain amount of synovitis has been set up by the movements, and it will be necessary therefore to abandon this part of the treatment for a time and to substitute rest for it. On the other hand, should no swelling occur, the movements need not be discontinued simply because they cause the patient pain. The pain in the early stages is probably due to tearing through or stretching the young adhesions, and, as these are gradually got rid of, the pain steadily diminishes; on the other hand, the pain, if due to ill effects produced by movement, will increase every day, because it results from actual inflammation set up by the treatment. In some cases, when the movements cause considerable pain and, when, nevertheless, it is imperative to move the joint in order to prevent adhesions, the pain may be considerably diminished by injecting small quantities of eucaine or cocaine around the joint in the manner described in Part I., p. 121, for the production of local anaesthesia. In the worst cases the anaesthetic may be injected into the joint itself (10 drops of a 2 per cent, solution) when it will be found that in about ten minutes considerable movement can be carried out without causing pain. The employment of movement as soon as possible after the subsidence of the inflammatory stage of acute synovitis is a matter of the utmost moment, and if it be carried out steadily, gently, and carefully from a very early period there will be no great trouble with adhesions, and very pro- bably there will be no necessity for breaking them down under anaesthesia at a later date. Should it be necessary, however, to enforce prolonged rest on the joint in order to subdue the inflammation, the adhesions will necessarily become so firm that they may have to be so treated; this matter will be referred to again in connection with anchylosis (see Chap. XVIII.). ACUTE SUPPURATIVE ARTHRITIS.—This is an acute inflam- mation involving all the structures entering into the composition of a joint; the condition is due to the presence of pyogenic organisms. Causes.—Acute arthritis may follow an open wound into a joint, but it may also occur without any wound in diseases such as pyaemia, acute septic infection and acute epiphysitis, in which pyogenic organisms have gained access from the blood. Pathological changes.—When pyogenic organisms gain access to a joint they lead to inflammation of all the structures forming it. The synovial membrane becomes intensely congested and swollen, and pours •out large quantities of synovial fluid mixed with pus; the bone beneath the