66 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. and practically form a loose body within it; this constitutes a formidable obstacle to movement. During some violent movement of the knee, particularly rotation of the tibia upon the femur, a sudden pain is felt in the joint, the knee becomes semi-flexed and the patient is unable to straighten it; very commonly the pain is so acute that the patient falls. Sometimes a prominence may be felt in the position of the displaced cartilage; in other cases a depression may be felt where the cartilage ought to be. The " locking of the joint" is succeeded by more or less severe synovitis,, lasting sometimes only a few days, sometimes for several weeks. The condition is very likely to recur, and patients are constantly seen who, in consequence of want of proper care after the first accident, are liable to get the cartilage caught and the knee locked whenever the foot is slightly twisted. TREATMENT.—The treatment may be divided into that appropriate for cases seen immediately after the first occurrence of the dislocation, and that for those in whom the condition is constantly recurring. (a) When the patient is seen immediately after the accident has occurred for the first time, the first point in the treatment is to reduce the dislocated cartilage. This can generally be readily done by first of all fully flexing the knee, rotating it inwards, and then quickly extending. Should the cartilage be prominent, pressure must be made over it whilst the manipulations are being carried out. An anccsthetic is hardly ever necessary. The limb should then be put upon a splifit in the extended position, and the effusion which results in a few hours should be subdued by the application of cold. As soon as the effusion has subsided, a firm apparatus, such as a lace-up leather splint or a stout Bavarian or poroplastic splint, extending from the mfddle of the thigh to the middle of the calf, should be e*nployed to keep the knee fully extended, and this should be worn continuously for at least three months. This splint should be worn night and day, and should only be taken off for the purpose of careful massage and passive movement, which should be commenced in about three weeks' time, in order to break down any adhesions that may have formed and to prevent the occurrence of fresh ones. It should be practised once daily for about a quarter of an hour at a time, and pressure should mean- while be kept up with the thumb over the internal semilunar cartilage. • Much depends upon the care with which the primary injury is treated. The difficulty in obtaining a good result is due, in the first place, to the slowness with which the cartilage unites, and secondly, to the great tendency there is to the formation of adhesions within the joint. Of the two evils, it is better to allow the adhesions to form to some extent so as to get union of the cartilage first; the adhesions may, if necessary, be broken down later on under an anaesthetic, and may be kept under by massage and passive movement. This is far better than paying attention first of all to the mobility of the joint, because every time that the knee