346 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE. attached to both thighs and, in children, a weight of about three pounds to begin with is affixed to each, the limbs being somewhat abducted. A similar weight is attached to the head by means of a chin-strap and an occipital band meeting above the ears and continued up to a pulley at the head of the bed (see Fig. 132). As a rule three pounds is as much as can be comfortably borne at the head, but in adults a little more may be put on at the extremities. It is not however necessary or desirable to have powerful extension, because it is not required to stretch the spine but to tire out the contracted muscles around it, and a com- paratively light weight constantly acting will generally suffice for this purpose. 'i'he combination of double extension with absolute fixation of the spine is in our opinion the ideal treatment for spinal disease during the progressive stage and in all parts of the spine, and a few months of this will do more for a case than very prolonged treatment with the various forms of spinal supports. Fig. 132.—Double Extension for Tuderculous Spinal Disease. In addition to the extension from the legs, weight extension is applied to the head by means of the headstall shown above. It might be thought that the general health would suffer from the con- finement in bed, but the contrary is the case. The immediate cessation of the inflammatory process, the pain, etc., leads to improvement in health, appetite, and general condition, and, if the patient be kept under good hygienic conditions, the general health will not suffer for a long time. When improvement in these respects does not follow confinement to bed, it usually means that efificient rest is not given to the affected part or that some grave visceral disease is present as well. This treatment should be carried out until the pain in the spine has disappeared and the disease is evidently in a fair way to recovery. Six months at the very least will be necessary for this, and in most cases con- siderably more; in fact, in children this treatment should be continued until the disease is cured, because in them it is impossible to fit on a suitable spinal support owing to the non-development of the pelvis. In