CHAPTER XIII. TUBERCULOSIS OF JOINTS. Tuberculosis is one of the most common affections of joints and may end in very serious disorganisation of the articulation. The disease is due to the growth of the tubercle bacillus, aided by some predisposing or exciting cause, and most commonly follows a slight injury or sprain in one who is the subject of tuberculosis elsewhere or in whose blood tubercle bacilli happen to be present. PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES.—As a rule the disease begins as a localised deposit in the joint. It is only in very rare cases, more particularly in acute tuberculosis, that the affection commences with an eruption of tubercles over the whole of the joint. As met with in surgical practice, the typical form of the disease is the result of the spread of the tuberculous virus from one or more foci, until in time the whole joint is affected. These primary foci may be situated either in the cancellous ends of the bone or in the synovial membrane, and both the early symptoms of the disease and its treatment will differ very considerably according to the mode of .origin. Primary deposits of tubercle in the bone are perhaps more common in children, whilst in adults the affection more frequently starts in the synovial membrane; on the whole, however, there is not a great difference between the frequency in the two cases. Primary osseous deposits.—These produce in the first place a localised tuberculous osteo-myelitis, and, as the deposit extends, one of two results may follow. The softening of the bone in which the tubercle is deposited may continue and may lead to the formation of a soft caseating deposit; on the other hand, sclerosis of the bone trabeculte may occur, with marked thickening of the bone, caseation of the tissue in the remains of the alveolar spaces, ultimate necrosis of this portion of the sclerosed bone and the formation of a sequestrum. Hence, where there is a tuberculous focus in a bone, a soft caseating deposit or a tuberculous sequestrum or both may be met with. This tuberculous focus gradually