DISEASES OF THE ANKLE AND TARSUS. 241 certain to collect and to interfere with union, while, should septic sinuses be present, suppuration is of course very apt to occur. After-treatment.—After the wound has been stitched up and the usual dressings applied, it is well to employ an anterior splint so as to avoid pressure upon the tissues over the heel. The bandage is sufificient to keep the surfaces fairly well in contact, and any additional pressure, such as would result from allowing the heel to rest upon a splint, might lead to sloughing of the flaps. The best arrangement, perhaps, is an anterior suspension splint (see Fig. 62). A flat bar of malleable iron is moulded to the leg from the tubercle of the tibia to well beyond the toes, the Fig. 62.—Anterior Suspension Bar applied after Arthrectomy of the Ankle. The wound is shown exposed without any dressings. The splint is fixed to the limb by plaster of Paris bandages and suspended from a cradle. This gives sufificient fixation to the joint and at the same time allows dressings to be properly applied. It is a very useful splint for excision of the OS calcis. foot meanwhile being kept at a right angle. The iron is fixed to the leg and the anterior part of the foot by a waterglass or plaster of Paris bandage, the region of the heel being left free for dressings. The bar is furnished with hooks by which it may be suspended from a cradle. The drainage tube should be kept in for about ten days, and, when the wound has healed, the limb should be put up in plaster of Paris, with the foot strictly at right angles. The patient should not be allowed to walk or to hang the limb down for two or three months after the operation. Results. — The results of this operation are extremely satisfactory; piatients are able to walk with comfort and without limping by merely placing a small pad of felt, wool, or india-rubber inside the boot, to supply the deficiency left by the removal of the os calcis. As a matter of fact, a considerable amount of new tissue, sometimes actual bone, forms, and the depression of the heel is not nearly so great as one would expect after removal of so large a bone. In most cases a pad about PT. IV. Q