236 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. In adults, this method of arthrectomy, combined with removal of the astragalus, is a better operation than the ordinary excision, because it gives a good movable joint, whereas the latter leaves the articulation stiff; nothing impedes locomotion more than a stiff ankle. Excision.—In performing a set excision, the joint may be exposed in the manner just described and, after the ends of the bones have been cleared, the tibia and fibula are sawn across just above the level of the articulation with a narrow saw introduced across the front of the joint; the cartilaginous surface of the astralagus should also be removed. Bony anchylosis is certain to occur after this operation, and special care must therefore be taken that it occurs with the foot in good position. For this reason we do not recommend the operation of excision of the ankle joint under any circumstances whatever ; indeed we are of opinion that if arthrectomy of the joint combined with removal of the astralagus be out of the question, amputation will probably leave the patient with a more useful limb. (3) When abscesses or sinuses are present.—Here the treat- ment must be operative, and should consist of arthrectomy at the very least; arthrectomy will be best in children, whilst in adults amputation will be most often called for. JFAen there is a large abscess, it is well to wash it out and inject it with iodoform and glycerine in the first instance (see p. 120) and wait for the diminution or cure of the abscess before proceeding to arthrectomy; otherwise extra large incisions will be required, and it is very likely that tuberculous material will be left behind. The arthrectomy may be per- formed as soon as the abscess has healed or has diminished to a small size. The presence of sinuses does not necessarily contra-indicate arthrectomy, as they may be scraped out and sponged with undiluted carbolic acid before proceeding to the operation, and may then be included in the incisions and dissected out entirely. The steps of the operation are exactly similar to those already described, but it is well before sewing up the wound to sponge it out freely with undiluted carbolic acid, after which a drainage tube should be inserted. The best position for drainage is on the inner side of the tendo Achillis, and the incision may be made by thrusting a pair of forceps through the back of the joint, making it project beneath the skin just at the inner border of the tendo Achillis and cutting down upon it in that situation ; the forceps are then pushed through, the blades expanded, and a drainage tube of suitable size seized and pulled back into the joint. Drainage is necessary here because the wound fs septic, and suppuration may of course occur in it, whilst the carbolic acid with which the wound is swabbed leads to so much effusion that it is well to allow of its escape for the first few days. If there be no suppuration in five or six days, the drainage tube may be left out.