NERVOUS AFFECTIONS. ounces, but rapidly increasing up to as much as half a pint at a time, so that before the end of the first week the patient is taking as much as two or three quarts. Within a few days from the beginning of the treat- ment a steadily increasing amount of solid food is given along with the milk, until the patient is taking without trouble or inconvenience three very large meals daily besides the- milk. In favourable cases this should happen within a fortnight of the commencement of the treatment, and the patient should simultaneously be putting on flesh with great rapidity. The massage and electricity apparently cause so much tissue-change that there is no dyspepsia. The exact diet will vary with the case, and for further details upon the subject we would refer the reader to the works of Weir MitchelP or Dr. Playfair.- As the patient begins to improve, the pain rapidly disappears, sleep is refreshing and uninterrupted, and the masseuse is very soon able to handle the affected joint without pain, and even to carry out in it movements of a painless nature and steadily increasing range. It is astonishing to see the rapidity with which an excruciatingly painful and rigidly fixed joint becomes quite painless and freely movable, and it is not uncommon for the patient to be able to use the joint fairly well within the first week. As soon as the improvement commences, it progresses very rapidly until the cure is complete. Hypnotism.—This may be made an important element in the treatment of some of these cases. When under its influence, the patient should have suggestions made that the joint has become well, and can therefore be freely moved; in a susceptible person such suggestions may lead in a very short time to complete disappearance of all the symptoms. Although hypnotism may be carried to excess in many cases, there can be no doubt that in the treatment of hysterical affections, particularly those of joints, it is of very real value. Sudden mental shock will also often lead to recovery, even when the affection has persisted for a long time, but it is a method of treatment which of course must be more the result of accident than of design. (b) Local.—During the earlier stages, any local treatment of the joint besides massage should be avoided. In the later stages, however, when the contracture has gone on to true organic shortening of the muscles, or when there are contractions in the capsule of the joint, surgical measures may have to be employed to overcome them. When it is found that the contracture does not disappear under an angesthetic, and is due to adhesions about the joint, these should be broken down and treated in the ordinary way (see p. 163), the forcible movements under an anesthetic being repeated every ten days or so as may be necessary. Tenoto77iy.—When the muscles are permanently shortened, recovery '^Fat and Blood. By S. Weir Mitchell, M.D., Philadelphia. ^ The Systematic Treatment of Nerve Prostration and Hysteria. I3y W. S. Playfair, M.D., F.R.C.P., London.