62 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. be very careful in moving the knee. Passive movements, during which the patella must be steadied so as to prevent any recurrence of the dislocation, must be employed from the first. The patient should not leave off the splint or walk about for at least three weeks after the injury. Should the effusion still be present at the end of that time, the period of treatment must be prolonged until it has disappeared. When the patient first gets about, it is well that he should wear either an elastic bandage around the knee over a mass of cotton wool or some form of elastic knee-cap so as to prevent the possibility of recurrence of the dislocation. In about three months' time he can safely do without support of any kind. (b) Dislocation inwards.—This is an extremely rare condition, and generally results from a direct blow upon the upper and outer aspect of the bone. The treatment is practically the same as that of the commoner variety just described; an anesthetic may be necessary. (c) Vertical dislocation.—A more common condition is a vertical dislocation of the patella upon its long axis, the bone being turned upon itself through an angle of nearly 90° so that one edge is caught in the groove between the condyles of the femur whilst the other points directly forwards. The bone is usually twisted so that the anterior surface is directed outwards while the articular surface looks inwards; more rarely the position may be reversed. Causes.—A vertical dislocation is almost always due to direct violence applied from the front and one side. The capsule is necessarily torn, and •the rent usually takes place over the internal condyle. Treatment.—The reduction of this form of dislocation is somewhat more difficult than the last, but is readily accomplished if the patient be placed under an aneesthetic. When the quadriceps is fully relaxed, pressure upon the uppermost edge of the patella should be applied so as to rotate the bone back into position; this will generally occur with a marked snap. If this manoeuvre be unavailing, it is probably because the upper part of the bone is engaged in the inter-condyloid notch, and to overcome this downward pressure must also be applied. Should this fail, the knee may be somewhat flexed and the bone thus disengaged, when pressure upon the edge of the bone will at once cause it to slip back into position. Should reduction under an anaesthetic fail—which however, it is very rarely likely to do—it may be necessary to make a small incision through the capsule on one side of the patella, and to introduce an elevator beneath the lower edge of the bone so as to lever it upwards while pressure is at the same time made upon the uppermost edge, when the bone will be at once got into position. The after-treatment in these cases is precisely similar to that for dislocation outwards. UNREDUCED DISLOCATION OF THE PATELLA. A dislocation of the patella may either be unrecognised, or reduction may have failed, and the patient may apply for relief, weeks and even