93 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. stretched. In all cases of synovitis there is a tendency to the formation of adhesions between the opposing surfaces of the synovial membrane. These adhesions arise from the material effused into the joint, and are at first simply of a fibrinous character; they may subsequently become organised into firm fibrous adhesions and then form a serious obstacle to the mobility of the joint." It must be remembered that in every joint capable of free movement the synovial membrane is much more extensive than the joint itself—a condition necessary to allow of proper movement. Hence, in whatever position the joint may be, the synovial membrane is always thrown into folds with its opposing surfaces in contact at some point or other. In acute synovitis, the lymph poured out on the opposing surfaces of these synovial folds glues them together when the limb is kept at rest, and, unless the folds be separated, the lymph will organise, and will either produce adhesions between the two surfaces or even complete obliteration of that portion of the synovial membrane, so that attempts to move the joint are unavailing. Treatment.—The treatment depends to a certain extent upon the cause, and will be referred to again in speaking of acute synovitis as it occurs under various circumstances; generally speaking there are, however, certain essentials for the satisfactory treatment of any given case. In the first place absolute rest of the affected joint is of primary importance; the limb should be fixed on a splint in the position which will be most useful should adhesions form which cannot afterwards be got rid of. The second important indication is the employment of soothing applications such as fomentations. If there be much pain, the fomentations may be sprinkled with laudanum, and they should be fre- quently renewed (see Part I., p. 12). Should the synovitis be very acute, considerable benefit may be derived by commencing treatment with the application of leeches around the joint, following this up by the employment of fomentations. When the pain has subsided, the fomentations may be given up and pressure applied, preferably by means of a cotton wool and starch bandage (see p. 100); the degree of pressure that this should exert will be regulated by the sensations of the patient; it should never be sufficiently tight to cause pain, and it will generally be found that the pressure can be increased in the course of a few days. The object of this is to bring about rapid absorption of the fluid in the synovial cavity. After pressure has been employed for two or three days it will be found advantageous to substitute for it massage, which should at first consist of gentle rubbing and should gradually be increased in extent and in vigour as the patient is able to bear it. In ordinary cases of acute synovitis, passive movement may generally be begun about the third week, but this must depend largely upon the cause of the affection. As soon as passive motion is begun, the splint should be left off, and the limb supported by a firm elastic bandage.