26 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. The chief obstacle to the return of the head is generally the sub-scapularis tendon, but this can usually be easily dealt with when the parts are fully exposed. The fracture of the humerus may next be treated, and it is well to take the opportunity to secure the fractured surfaces together by means of wires introduced as shown in Part III., Fig. i8. During the whole operation the wound should be kept irrigated with a 1-8000 sublimate solution. The wound is then stitched up without a drainage tube, and the arm put up as for fracture of the upper end of the humerus (see Part in., p. 67). As soon as the wound has healed, which should be in about ten days, gentle passive motion must be begun, so as to prevent adhesions in the joint. If gentleness be employed in doing this, there is not much fear of unduly disturbing the fracture, as the wire keeps it steady, and, with careful attention to massage and passive motion, a good result should be obtained when the fracture is through the surgical neck. When, however, the anatomical neck is the seat of the fracture, the prospects of a satisfactory result are not nearly so good. The rounded head of the bone may be completely detached, and the probability then is that it will not unite satisfactorily to the shaft, even though it be secured mechanically to it; the best result will probably be obtained by simply removing the loose portion and smoothing off any rough surface that may be left behind. The arm is then brought into its proper position, the rent in the capsule closed, and the wound sutured as before. In this case passive movement should be carried out vigorously from the first, as there is now no fracture to be considered, the only object being the early establishment of the free mobility of the joint. In fact, the case is simply one of partial excision of the joint without division of any muscles. Again, in some of the severer cases of combined dislocation and fracture it may be found that the fracture, which is mainly through the anatomical neck, is comminuted, and the head considerably broken up. Here it will be best to remove the comminuted portion and to smooth off any projections from the shaft of the bone with a chisel or a gouge. This is advisable because, although union might occur in the fracture, there would probably be so much callus thrown out that the movements of the joint would be seriously hampered ; in any case, the removal of the comminuted portion enables passive movement to be begun earl)- and practised vigorously, as there is then no danger of interfering with the consolidation of the fracture. After-treatment.—The after-treatment is that appropriate for fractures of the surgical neck (see Part III., p. 67). The usual cyanide dressings are applied, a shoulder-cap is put on, and an internal rectangular splint is employed. As a rule the splints can be left off at the end of four weeks from the date of the injury. 2. Injury to the axillary vessels and nerves.—The axillary artery is the vessel most usually affected; in sub-glenoid dislocation