239 DISEASES OF THE ANKLE AND TARSUS. is reached everywhere, after which the cavity may be filled up with iodoform emulsion, and the wound stitched up without a drainage tube. Should serum accumulate in the cavity, it can be allowed to escape quite easily- by inserting a pair of dressing forceps through the wound, but this is usually unnecessary, and healing is quite satisfactory. Elood-clot forms in the cavity and subsequently becomes organised. After-treatment.—After the operation, the foot should be encased in a large mass of dressing and enveloped in wool firmly bandaged on ; it should be fi.xed in position by means of suitable lateral splints. When the wound has healed and the parts are quite sound, a large mass of wool should be put around the ankle and fixed on firmly with a silicate bandage, so as to exercise a certain amount of compression. The patient should not be allowed to hang the foot down for at least eight weeks after the operation, as otherwise the vitality of the organising blood-clot within the" bone will be endangered. Should a sinus form and fail to heal, the scraping may be repeated after a time; the second operation will often succeed in curing the disease. When an abscess or sinuses are present.— Whe7i there is an abscess over the bone, this should if possible be dissected out or at any rate cleared out as thoroughly as possible, and the bone deposit removed as described above. When septic sinuses are present leading into the interior of the bone, they may be treated in a similar manner; the sinus is swabbed out with undiluted carbolic acid, included in the incision and entirely removed. The interior of the bone is then gouged out and similarly sponged with the undiluted acid. It is well afterwards to stuff the cavity and leave it open. The flap may be stitched into position later on when the cavity is granulating well, a small drainage tube being placed at the posterior angle of the incision so as to allow the discharge to escape. Excisio7i of the os calcis.—In other cases, however, it may be necessary to excise the os calcis altogether. This will be called for when the disease has lasted for a long time, when it has resisted the operations just described, when several sinuses are present or when there is evidence of infection of neighbouring joints, such as the calcaneo-astragaloid or calcaneo-cuboid. Various incisions have been employed for removal of the os calcis. The one we are accustomed to use commences a finger's-breadth above the sole just behind the base of the fifth metatarsal, and is carried horizontally backwards around the heel and along the inner side of the bone for an inch and a half (see Fig. 61); it must not be carried too far forward, for fear of damaging the vessels and other structures below the internal malleolus. The incision should go through the skin and fascia only at first. It is sometimes useful to add a vertical incision to the horizontal one just in front of and parallel to the outer border of the tendo Achillis for about two inches. By this means three flaps are formed which are dissected off the bone, care being taken to avoid the peronei tendons behind the external malleolus.