THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 150 Acute or sub-acute rheumatoid arthritis comes essentially under the notice of the physician, and we shall not therefore consider it further. Treatment.—The treatment mainly consists in putting the affected limb upon a splint and aspirating the joint if necessary. Guaiacol and cod-liver oil should be administered, while it is of advantage to remove the patient to a suitable climate where he may receive thermal treatment; the latter point will be again referred to in dealing with the chronic form of the disease (see p. 152). CHRONIC or MON ARTICULAR RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS. —This form of the disease comes frequently under the notice of the surgeon, and is the one concerning the nature of which there has been the greatest dispute and the greatest obscurity. Some authors only include under the heading " rheumatoid arthritis," a form of the disease closely resembling the acute in its distribution ; that is to say, it is poly- articular and affects the small joints. The mon-articular form they speak of as " senile arthritis," or, according to the various apparent causes, it is termed " traumatic arthritis," etc. Similar changes, however, occur in all these cases, whether the disease follows on an injury or whether it arises spontaneously, and these changes so closely resemble those found in rheumatoid arthritis proper that it seems wisest to group together all the cases presenting them under the heading of chronic rheumatoid arthritis, whatever be the apparent mode of origin. The parasitic theory as to the origin of rheumatoid arthritis is not sufficiently well established to enable the presence or absence of bacteria to be used as a point of diagnosis, and therefore the cases in which no parasites can be demon- strated cannot be excluded from the group of rheumatoid arthritis. The disease is usually limited to one or two joints and chiefly affects the larger ones such as the knee or the hip. Its progress is usually steady and but slightly marked by exacerbations. The patient first notices that the joint is stiff and somewhat painful, particularly in the morning, whilst the stiffness passes off to some extent as the joint is exercised. After a time the pain increases and in some instances forms the marked feature of the case. The difficulty in movement may also increase, and, as changes take place in the joint surfaces, the limb may assume abnormal positions; indeed, in some joints actual dislocation may occur. As time goes on, the stiffness steadily increases, partly from the shrink- ing of the capsule, but mainly from the formation of osteophytic outgrowths around the joint. Alterations in the shape of the articular ends also interfere with the normal movements. As the disease progresses, the patient becomes more and more crippled, and, if several joints in the lower extremity happen to be affected, he may be entirely bed-ridden. Causes.—Little or nothing is known as to the causation of the disease. It is certainly more frequent in cold, damp climates than in dry, warm ones, and it is always worse in those exposed to cold and damp. It is also very common to obtain a history that the disease followed an injury,