io8 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. therefore actually verified. It is not, however, nearly so uncommon a cause of pain and effusion into joints as may be supposed. The fundamental cause of this condition is still extremely obscure. We have included it among the inflammatory affections, but we feel by no means certain that it is really of this nature. It is described here merely because it is more convenient to consider it in this connection on account of the chronic synovitis to which it constantly gives rise. By some it is considered to be allied to rheumatoid arthritis, and no doubt the condition is found in many rheumatoid joints ; on the other hand, a most extensive papillo- matous condition of the synovial membrane may be met with without any other sign of rheumatoid change in the joints, or without, as far as present experience goes, that condition supervening later. The affection is very commonly multiple, and may involve several joints. Those most frequently attacked are the knee and the ankle, and the result is not only persistent effusion of fluid into the joint, but also frequent attacks of sudden disability, which closely resemble those caused by loose cartilages, and which are due to nipping of the fringes between the ends of the bones. Besides the effusion of fluid, which may or may not be considerable in amount, there is often tenderness on pressure over various parts of the joint. When the articulation is palpated, it is often possible to feel the fringes moving about under the finger and giving rise to a marked crepitation. Schuchardt, who' has investigated the subject, gives the following as the most frequent seats of proliferation in the various, joints : in the shoulder the fringes mostly occur round the scapular articular surface, in the bicipital groove and in the neighbourhood of the anatomical neck of the humerus ; in the elbow they are met with most frequently about the head of the radius, beneath the annular ligament and in the pockets of synovial membrane in front and behind; in the radio-ulnar joint they are especially on the dorsal surface; in the hip they are most frequent in the neighbour- hood of the head of the bone; in the knee they surround the patella and are present at the reflection of the synovial membrane and in the supra- patellar pouch. In the last joint we have found them most frequently over the lateral reflections of the pouch so that they can be felt over the condyles; they also occur in connection with the ligamentum mucosum; in the ankle they occur at the anterior attachment of the synovial membrane to the tibia. Treatment.—This is unfortunately very difiicult, and it is not easy to see how a uniformly good result can be obtained. Should the trouble be limited to one joint, it is clear that the most promising measure is the radical one of dissecting away the whole of the affected area of the synovial membrane, and, wherever this dissection does not involve removal of the entire synovial membrane, we have obtained most excellent results, particularly in the knee. Should, however, the case be one where the condition is more or less universal, the whole of the synovial membrane