INJURIES OF THE SPINE. 289 Incision—T\\Q skin incision must be very free, since the laminte lie deep down, and the parts must be widely retracted before they can be satisfactorily exposed ; when, for example, the laminae of two or three vertebrte are to be removed, the incision should at any rate reach from a couple of spines higher up to a couple of spines lower down than the area to be operated upon. Some surgeons employ a median incision, while others use a curved one; the latter has the advantage, here as elsewhere, that it removes the scar from the line of the spinous processes, but in cases in which the exact situation and extent of the lesion are not known, the vertical incision is to be preferred because it can be enlarged when necessary. Some surgeons make the curved flap with its convexity either upwards or downwards, while others make it with its convexity to one side ; it seems on the whole that this lateral flap is really the best. The convexity of the curve extends to one side as far as the outer edge of the spinal muscles and crosses the middle line both at the upper and lower ends (see Fig. 75). Retraction of the muscles.—The next point is the separation of the muscles from the spinous processes and the laminae. This should be effected as rapidly as possible because considerable oozing takes place, and is best arrested by pressure as soon as the separation is complete. The muscles are divided * at their attachment to the spinous processes and are then rapidly stripped off with a curved raspatory. If the bleeding be excessive, a sponge wrung out of hot lotion (about 110° to 120° F.) should be packed into the vertebral groove on one side while the muscles on the opposite side are being separated, and in a very short time the bleeding stops. The muscles must be freely detached not only from the spines but from the laminfe as far out as the transverse pro- cesses on both sides ; they are pulled firmly aside by large flat retractors. Removal of the spinous processes. — When the neural arches have been thoroughly 76-Lam.nectomv p,.,er.s. cleared, the spinous processes are removed. This is done by nipping through their bases with a pair of angular cutting pliers (see Fig. 76); it is generally well to remove the spinous process both of the vertebra PT. IV. T Fig. 75.—Incisions for Laminectomv. The merits of the two forms are discussed in the text.