CHAPTER VII. DISLOCATIONS OF THE PATELLA. CAUSES.—The accident may occur either from unduly forcible con- traction of the quadriceps or from a direct blow upon one edge of the bone. Dislocation is often predisposed to by a previous lax condition of the liga- ments, resulting from chronic synovitis with effusion, and it is naturally much more common when genu valgum is present. VARIETIES.—The patella may be dislocated outwards or inwards, or it may be rotated vertically upon its long axis. Of these, dislocation outwards is far the most common, no doubt owing to the fact that the patella lies more over the external condyle than over the internal; this is still more marked when*any degree of genu valgum is present. (a) Dislocation outwards.—^In dislocation outwards, the capsule over the inner condyle is torn and the patella slips over the external condyle and lies therefore upon the outer side of the knee. The accident may occur either when the knee is flexed or extended; when due to muscular action, dislocation generally occurs with the knee bent. Treatment.—The treatment of this form of dislocation is very simple, and reduction may generally be accomplished quite easily without an anaesthetic. The knee joint should first be fully extended and the thigh flexed upon the pelvis, so as to relax the extensors of the thigh, when com- paratively slight pressure and manipulation will cause the bone to slip inwards into its normal position. After-treatment.—There is usually considerable synovial effusion as a result of the accident, and there may be some bleeding into the joint. The limb should therefore be placed on a back splint, and cold, either in the form of an ice-bag or Leiter's tubes (see Part I., p. 9), should be applied immediately after reduction. When the effusion has become stationary, its absorption may be aided , by massage. In the intervals, firm elastic support should be afforded to the limb by a bandage applied outside a large mass of cotton wool; in other words the treatment will be much the same as that for sprains of the knee joint (see Chapter X.). The rent in the capsule takes some time to heal, and the patient must