DISEASES OF THE HIP JOINT. 187 both hip joints have been affected, and the adduction has caused tlie legs to cross one another, and to produce the so-called " scissor-leg" deformity. This is a most distressing condition, and something must be done to remedy it. AVe believe that the best treatment is to excise the joint on one side so as to get a movable joint, and thus to enable the patient to sit down, whilst on the other side a wedge should be removed so as to insure a firm support. If both the joints be excised, the patient is in a condition very sirnilar to that of congenital dislocation of both hips, and will probably have most serious locomotive troubles, whereas if one leg be firm and in good position and the joint on the other side be excised, the ultimate result will probably be very satisfactory. EXCISION OF THE HIP.—This operation is practically confined to cases of tuberculous disease, and the indications for its performance have already been given. In all these cases excision must of course be combined with free removal of the diseased synovial membrane; in fact there is no real distinction between excision and arthrectomy, unless the latter term be reserved for the rare cases in which the head of the bone is not removed (see p. 180). Methods.—Excision may be performed in various ways, of which we may mention three: by an anterior, an external, or a posterior incision. Each of these has its own special merits and may be adopted under different circumstances. (1) By an anterior incision.—The anterior incision is the one in common use, and is the most satisfactory method for children. It is especially adapted for cases of medium severity in which the disease does not extend far out along the neck of the femur. The incision commences just below the anterior superior iliac spine, and runs downwards and slightly inwards for about four inches, so as to open up the interval between the tensor vaginae femoris externally and the sartorius internally (see Fig. 47). After the skin and deep fascia have been divided, the septum between the tensor and the sartorius comes into view, and these muscles are separated and pulled well apart by large retractors ; the cellular tissue lying between the deeper muscles is then divided, in doing which a fairly large branch of the external circumflex artery is usually cut across. As the incision is deepened, the capsule of the joint is reached and is opened. The neck of the bone is then divided in the line of the external wound with a fine saw (see Fig. 48), and the head of the bone is seized with lion forceps; it can usually be removed without any difficulty owing to the enlargement of the acetabulum and the destruction of the ligamentum teres. This brings the surgeon to the most important part of the operation, namely the identification and removal of the diseased synovial membrane. In order to do this, the wound is fully retracted, the outer surface of the capsule is defined at the point where it has been incised, and the