232 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. stages of the disease from the point of view of treatment. These are:— I. Primary osseous deposits. 2. Synovial thickening. 3. Joint disease complicated by abscesses or sinuses. 4. Recovery with deformity. (1) Primary osseous deposits.—If these can be diagnosed and are accessible they should be removed at once, when the joint may be saved. Should the deposit be in the base of either malleolus, it is quite readily reached through an incision directly over the enlarged bone, and the deposit can easily be scooped out with a sharp spoon. Unless there be marked signs of synovial disease present, it is well to be content with the removal of the bone deposit, and to treat the joint trouble by the expectant measures which will be immediately described for the treatment of the first stage of the synovial form of the disease {vide infra). When the deposit occurs in the astragalus, that bone must be removed in order to obtain a cure. Unfortunately these cases are seldom diagnosed until the synovial membrane of the ankle is widely involved, when an arthrectomy of the ankle joint should be combined with removal of the astragalus (see p. 233). (2) Synovial thickening'.—When the disease in the ankle is either primarily synovial or the bone deposit has been removed and the synovial affection is left, the case should be treated first on lines similar to that recommended for other joints, the first essential being rest in the recumbent position, combined with fixation of the joint. Most cases of disease of the ankle joint result in anchylosis if they get well, and therefore the limb must be kep^n the position in which it will be most useful afterwards; this will be at or slightly beyond a right angle to the leg. The thing to avoid is pointing of the toes, as it is most essential to comfort in walking that the heel should reach the ground and support the w.eight; when the toes are pointed, the whole weight is thrown on the heads of the metatarsals. Care must also be taken to see that there is no lateral deviation of the foot. The best arrangement is to fix the limb in Croft's lateral splints extending from the knee to the roots of the toes (see Part III., p. 14). It is well to apply an ordinary back splint with a foot-piece at right angles outside the plaster splints until they have thoroughly dried. The patient should be kept recumbent in bed or upon a sofa, with the limb slightly elevated, until the disease is well advanced towards cure; afterwards he may be allowed to get about on crutches, the best arrangement being to fit him with a peg-leg so that the weight is supported upon the knee instead of the ankle. He may then get about with the aid of a crutch or a stick. In addition, the .other methods for the treatment of tuberculous joints may be employed, such as the injection of iodoform emulsion, which is very readily carried out from the front of the joint, particularly in front of the internal malleolus; or if this fails, the use of firm pressure by Scott's dressing, either alone or combined with a starch and cotton wool bandage (see p. 119). In children, however, unless rapid improvement follows these methods,