132 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. drachms of the lo % iodoform and glycerine emulsion (see p. 120). Should the fluid re-accumulate, this procedure may be repeated, and in any case the iodoform injections should be repeated once a week. At the same time the limb must be placed on a splint, and the general treatment of tuberculosis attended to. Should it be found in the course of a few weeks that the disease progresses, it will be necessary to resort to arthrectomy if the patient be a child, or to excision if an adult. The cases which commence with the effusion of a semi-purulent fluid into the joint are usually grave, and imply considerable malignancy of the bacilli. 4. Cases in which an osseous deposit has burst into the joint.—Here a more or less acute infection of the synovial membrane has taken place, and the patient has an acute affection of the joint marked by great tenderness, pain on the slightest movement, starting of the limb at night, and all the symptoms formerly described under the term " ulceration of cartilage." On examining into the history, it will usually be found that, for some time previous to the sudden onset of pain, the patient has limped and complained of a feeling of weight, uneasiness, or actual pain in the limb. The treatment depends to a very considerable extent on' the general condition of the patient, his age, the particular joint affected, and so forth. Expectant treatment usually gives very unsatisfactory results, and it is only in joints such as the hip, which are not readily accessible, or when the patient is not in a condition to stand a long operation, that the surgeon will be tempted to employ it. By expectant treatment is meant the use of splints, extension, counter-irritation, and the injection of iodo- form and glycerine into and about the joint. Should it be decided to employ it, it should be remembered that at best a stiff joint will be obtained, and that the limb should therefore be put up in such a position as to be most useful to the patient when anchylosis occurs. It is in some of these cases that the actual cautery applied over deep- seated joints, such as the hip or the shoulder, is of most value. A patient, after suffering agonies from starting pains at night in spite of careful fixation of the joint on splints or extension, will often lose the pain im- mediately after the application of the cautery. It is, however, not infrequently found that, should the wound be allowed to heal too soon, the pain very quickly recurs. When improvement does not follow in spite of local treatment, or when the joint is one of those in which free mobility can be counted upon as the result of operation, it is advisable to have recourse to operative measures at once; the choice will lie between arthrectomy, excision, and amputation. The meaning, value, and relative uses of these have already been discussed (see p. 125), and the conclusion there arrived at is that arthrectomy is the proper operation for children in all cases except those that are sufficiently grave to render amputation imperative, whilst for