INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. 99 urethral affection has arrived at the gleety stage it is not uncommon to find by inspection through the urethroscope that there is some actual ulceration in the urethra, and it is probable that at this point the gonococci enter the blood and by it are carried to the articulation. In support of this view is the fact that the trouble, not infrequently follows the passage of an instrument during the sub-acute or chronic stage. On the other hand, some constitutional condition seems to exist, which at any rate predisposes to the occurrence of the arthritis, for it is not uncommon to find that certain patients suffer from the affection every time they contract gonorrhoea. The disease occurs chiefly in men, but is also met with in women. Examination of the fluid found in the affected joint shows, in the majority of instances, the presence of gonococci, but in a fair proportion of cases no organisms at all have been found; whilst in others again, of the more acute type, the ordinary pyogenic organisms are iDresent. It is probable that the last cases are pysemic rather than purely gonorrhoeal. Varieties.—Clinically the disease varies in acuteness in different cases. From the point of view of treatment we may differentiate four groups. (a) The simplest form, which is not uncommon, is that of a painful affection of the joint without any distinct swelling or synovial effusion. There is slight tenderness on pressure, with pain on moving the limb, and occasional shooting pains in the joint. In all probability there is here an inflammation of the fibrous structures around the joint rather than an affection of the synovial membrane itself. (d) The typical gonorrhoeal arthritis is the acute or sub-acute form. The first symptom is stiffness and slight swelling of the joint, which is soon followed by acute pain, lasting for several days, and accompanied by some effusion into the synovial cavity. The fluid thus poured out is either clear or somewhat turbid from the presence of white corpuscles. In a week or ten days the acuteness of the trouble subsides, when a similar condition may affect another joint, and not at all infrequently symptoms of gonorrhceal inflammation occur in the fasciae and ligaments elsewhere in the body. Recovery in these cases is usually protracted, and relapses are frequent. (c) In other cases the disease is chronic from the first, and consists rather in a persistent accumulation of fluid in the joint than in an acute inflammatory attack; the condition, in other words, is more one of hydrops articuli than of acute synovitis. (d) Extremely acute cases are occasionally met with in which actual suppuration occurs in the joint. As we have already remarked, these are in all probability rather of a pycemic than of a purely gonorrhceal nature. The tendency of this affection is to spontaneous recovery—generally after a protracted convalescence. The acute form of the disease is