121 TUBERCULOSIS. pyrexia, rapid pulse, spasmodic movements and the presence of iodine compounds and sometimes albumen in the urine. Glycerine alone, however^ may produce rise of temperature, blood pigment in the urine, increasing rapidity of pulse, vomiting, restlessness, and stupor ending in coma. In a superficial joint, such as the knee, a fair-sized needle should be introduced into the substance of the synovial membrane, and the emulsion injected into it in small quantities, a drop or two here and there, by means of a strong syringe. The point of the needle should be moved about all over the synovial membrane so as to distribute the emulsion. The needle should finally be made to penetrate the joint cavity itself, into which one or two drachms should be injected and left behind. In children anaesthesia is necessary as a rule, but in adults the injection can usually be made without it. It is not necessary to make more than two or three punctures through the skin; the needle can be pushed from one point to another subcutaneously. The result is generally an increase in the swelling of the joint, and some pain, which, however, passes off in two or three days. The injection should be repeated about once a week, the frequency, however, mainly depending on the amount of reaction produced. It should be persevered with for a considerable time, until either it is evident that no good is resulting or until the case is well on the way to recovery. Should abscesses occur during this treatment they need not necessarily lead to its abandonment. They should be washed out and injected with iodoform and glycerine in the manner already described (see Part I., p. 247). Krause has indicated the principal spots in the chief joints where injections can be most conveniently made. In the wrist the needle should be introduced below the styloid processes of the radius and the ulna; in the elbow it should be inserted over the head of the radius in front, and on each side of the olecranon behind ; in the shoulder, either from the coracoid process in front or from the junction of the spine ot the scapula with the acromion behind. In the ankle the most suitable spot is in front of or below the tips of the malleoli, the needle being thrust first inwards and then upwards (it may also if necessary be introduced behind on either side of the tendo Achillis); the best access to the tarsal joints is gained from the dorsum or sides of the foot. When it is desired to inject the hip, the thigh should be extended, adducted, and slightly rotated inwards and a long needle should then be entered above the great trochanter^ at right angles to the long axis of the thigh, and pushed in until it strikes the head of the femur, or the neck just beyond the head; it is then guided upwards along the bone until it enters the joint. Another method for the same purpose is described by Biinger as follows. A line is drawn to the tip of the great trochanter from the point where the femoral artery crosses the brim of the pelvis, and the needle is entered at the spot where this line crosses the inner border of the sartorius muscle. If pushed directly upwards it will enter the joint. The back of