6o THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. be done will naturally arise. If the pres.sure on the sciatic nerve, which is often a source of considerable pain to the patient, has been relieved by the operation, there is no particular advantage in removing the head of the bone, as has been suggested. The great trochanter will slip up and down over the side of the pelvis, much in the same manner as the head of the bone does, and from that point of view the patient will be no better off. The best thing is probably to try and form a new acetabulum upon the iliac bone, in the new position that the head of the bone occupies, and so to substitute a stable and movable joint for the unstable and useless one resulting from the dislocation. To do this, a portion of the pelvis is gouged away opposite the head of the bone, until a shallow bed is formed in which the head can lie. Instead of removing the portions of bone so raised, it is well to simply gouge them upwards and then bend them at right angles to the pelvis, so that they form a sort of buttress preventing the head of the bone being pulled further up. In the course of a few weeks considerable callus is thrown out around the portions of bone detached in this way, and thus an obstacle to the further dislocation of the head upwards is obtained. The after-treat limit consists mainly in the employment of good exten- sion for some weeks, so as to prevent the head of the bone being thrust up forcibly against the buttress thus formed, until the latter has undergone solidification. Passive movement should also be employed from the first so as to form a new joint. When the unreduced dislocation of the femur is accompanied by frac- ture of the acetabulum, the condition is more difficult to treat. There can be no possibility of restoring the limb to its normal condition, and all that can be done is to attempt to refresh the detached fragments of the acetabulum if they are sufficiently large, and to peg them to the pelvis; then to scoop out the acetabulum and to turn the fragments of bone up, as before, so as to provide a buttress for retaining the head of the bone in position. Unfortunately the results are not at all satisfactory in either of the latter cases, although it must be claimed as a distinct improvement that, when a buttress has been formed, the head of the bone no longer slides up and down as it did before.