WOUNDS. 87 meanwhile so as to prevent air being sucked into the joint. When the wound has healed, more vigorous movement must be employed once or twice daily, and it may be found necessary to give the patient an anaesthetic in order to break down the adhesions from time to time, much in the same manner as will be subsequently described when dealing with anchy- losis of joints (see Chap. XVIII.). If sepsis can be avoided, a practically perfect result can generally be obtained, provided that the after-treatment be carried out with vigour and perseverance. TREATMENT OF SUPPURATING WOUNDS OF JOINTS. Wounds of joints in which free suppuration is established may have to be dealt with, either because the surgeon has failed to obtain asepsis in recent cases, or because the case does not come under notice until some days after the injury, when sepsis has already become established. The con- dition with which we then have to deal is a suppurative arthritis, and is one of extreme gravity. There is usually violent inflammation of all the structures of the joint, resulting in its complete disorganisation; the synovial membrane is intensely congested and swollen; the articular cartilages become destroyed and exfoliate; the bone beneath becomes inflamed and sometimes necrosed, whilst there may be a septic osteo-myelitis extending from the articular ends of the bone. The best result that can be hoped for in these cases is recovery with anchylosis, which is usually bony; but in the majority of cases the result is far from being so satisfactory. Abscesses form around the joint; acute osteo-myelitis extends along one or other of the bones entering into the formation of the joint, and septicaemia and pycemia very commonly result. It is true that a fairly moveable joint has been obtained after recovery, but such cases are very rare. Bearing these facts in mind, the first question that must arise in treat- ment is whether it is advisable in any individual case to attempt to save the limb, or whether it is not better to perform immediate amputation. The answer to this will depend very largely on the condition of the patient and the character of the wound. As far as the condition of the patient is concerned, his age and general condition, particularly with regard to the presence of any constitutional disease, are of the greatest importance. In an old subject, in one who is feeble or is the subject of albuminuria or some other grave constitutional disease, the best chance in the majority of cases is undoubtedly given by amputation. When, however, the patient is young, vigorous, and quite healthy, and particularly when symptoms of pyaemia or osteo-myelitis have not supervened, a vigorous attempt to save the limb is quite justifiable. The exact means adopted must of course depend upon the local condition. Should the inflammation not be very acute, and should the case be seen at a comparatively early stage, the surgeon should certainly try to save the joint. If, on the other hand, the inflammation be very acute, the pain extremely severe, and the