DISEASES OF THE KNEE JOINT. 217 As a rule it is well to introduce a drainage tube at the outer edge of the incision, the rest of which is sewn up by a continuous suture; the limb is placed upon a Gooch's splint, prepared in the way recommended for arthrectomy (see p. 212). After-treatment—When a drainage tube has been used, the dressing must be changed in three days, when the tube may be removed. When changing the dressing it is well to have a fresh splint prepared in a similar manner to the original one. The splint is then opened and the front of the knee dressed; while this is being done, an assistant must fix the thigh to prevent starting of the limb, while another similarly fixes the leg. It is well, in fact, at the first dressing to keep the limb in firm contact with the splint by opening one side at a- time whilst the limb is pressed against the other, and one side is washed and dressed at a time. The splint is elevated, the inclined plane or pillow upon which it is resting is removed, and then the splint is opened. One assistant grasps the thigh and another the leg, whilst the surgeon grasps the limb on either side of the knee; the splint is then allowed to drop away from the limb, the posterior part of which is thoroughly washed with a 1-20 carbolic acid solution, and afterwards with a 1-2000 sublimate. The fresh splint, with the dressing already arranged, is put in place beneath the limb and gradually raised until the surgeon and the assistants can remove their hands and leave the limb lying upon the fresh splint. The strips of gauze are then wrapped around the knee and the dressing, and the splint is bandaged on. It is well at this dressing to impregnate the outside bandage with a starch solution, so as to prevent it stretching and to insure that the apparatus will keep firm for six weeks or so, at the end of which time it may be taken off, the stitches removed, and the limb put up in plaster of Paris or some similar immovable apparatus. In three months after the operation union is usually firm enough for the patient to get about without any apparatus. Massage may be required for two or three weeks afterwards to restore the circulation and improve the nutrition of the muscles. (3) Treatment of the third stage.—Here, in addition to the destruc- tive changes in the synovial membrane, the cartilage and the bones, there are either unopened abscesses or sinuses—usually septic—which have resulted from abscesses bursting. The treatment will vary to some extent according as there are unopened abscesses or septic sinuses, and also according to whether the patient is a child or an adult. When there are imopened abscesses in children.—The treatment here will depend largely upon the general condition of the joint, particularly the extent of the disease, and upon whether there is more than one abscess. When the abscess is single and the joint condition is not very advanced, the treatment should first be directed to the cure of the abscess. We have already discussed the treatment of chronic abscess (see Part I.,