THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE. Series G.—Movements made without Support. All the movements which have been clone against the wall should at last be performed without such help ; also I. Breathing.—Hands clasped behind the waist, inspire, hands still clasped but arms forcibly stretched downwards, expire (see Fig. loi a). 2. Flexion of irunk.—Head straight, arms extended at sides of the head, bend the trunk forwards at the hips, so that the fingers, united by their palmar surfaces touch the ground ; return to the previous attitude with the arms in the same position. The legs to remain a b very straight, the feet a little apart (see Fig. loi b). The repetitions of the movement to be separated by circular movements of the arms. Exercise of anterior abdominal, erector spinas, glutei, psoas and thigh muscles. 3. Sit down slowly upon the heels with the arms extended horizontally in front ; recover to the standing position while letting the arms fall. Exercise of thigh, glutei and erector spinfe muscles. 4. Bend the trunk forwards, backwards, laterally, and lastly circularly, the hands resting upon the hips. Exercise of anterior, posterior and lateral ab- dominal muscles, and erector spinfe. 5. Separate the arms horizontally backwards as far as possible with inspir- ation ; bring them together in front with expiration. Exercise of pectorals, scapular muscles, and latissimi dorsi. 6. The untivisting exercise.—Patient standing, the arms straight and horizontal, and inclined as far as possible to the right, are rapidly moved across the body as far as possible to the left ; the whole spine at the same time rotating to the left. Thus the hands describe about | of a circle in a horizontal plane. Maintain this position for a few moments, then allow the arms to fall and the spine to come into a position of rest. Exercise for rotation to the right. This is one of the most important and powerful of the asymmetrical move- ments. Its power is much increased by using the Dowd's machine (see Fig. 113). 7. Reverse the exercise. Exercise for rotation to the left. 8. For poki7ig of the chin.—Patient sitting. Slowly bend head forwards until chin touches chest, then rapidly bend backwards as far as possible. Maintain the position a few seconds ; return slowly to position of rest. Exercise of complexus, trapezius, splenius, etc. 9. Patient sitting ; arms by side, simultaneously draws back both shoulders as far as possible, keeps them in this position whilst he counts four, and then allows them to return to original position. E.xercise of scapular and latissimus muscles. 10. Patient sitting ; bends the body on to the thighs, then slowly rises again. Exercise of anterior abdominal, psoas and iliacus, and erector spinee muscles. II. Patient standing opposite a wall and an arm's length from it, stretches out the arms horizontally in front, and applies the hands flat against the wall;