DISLOCATIONS OF THE FOOT. 75 a lateral incision on each side, that on the inner side commencing an inch above the articular surface, just in front of the malleolus, and running downwards and forwards to the internal cuneiform bone; on the outer side the incision should run from just above and in front of the external malleolus downwards and forwards to the cuboid. In deepening the inner incision the tendon of the tibialis anticus should be carefully preserved, and the whole of the soft tissues lying over the astragalus should be separated from the bone and lifted up by passing a broad copper spatula beneath them. This enables the condition of the parts to be investigated; it is then often possible, by making forcible traction upon the foot, to directly press the astragalus back into position. Should it still be impossible to do this after further exposure of the parts and retraction of any structure that opposes reduction, the bone should be removed. This will be all the more urgently called for when the astragalus is completely detached from all the surrounding structures, and when, conse- quently, its nutrition is likely to be seriously damaged. The functional result will be excellent. OTHER DISLOCATIONS OF THE TARSUS AND META- TARSUS.—The remaining dislocations occurring about the foot are of great rarity and of very slight importance, and they do not therefore need any detailed description. Dislocation at the transverse tarsal joint has been described, and, if it occur, it should be reduced by manipulation under an antesthetic by making firm traction upon the front part of the foot. The metatarsal bones may also be dislocated from the tarsus either individually or as a whole. This is usually the result of extreme violence, and is generally accompanied by other injuries. Reduction is effected under anaesthesia by making traction upon the front part of the foot and applying pressure over the prominent bases of the metatarsus. Dislocations at the metatarso-phalangeal joints also occur. These are in every way comparable to similar dislocations occurring in the hand and the treatment is exactly the same, but they are of much greater rarity. We need not, therefore, repeat what has already been said on the subject (see p. 46).