264 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOIiNTS. every day from the first. At the end of a fortnight the stitches may be taken out and the arm removed from the spUnt, while gentle flexion and extension are practised daily ; in the intervals between the movements the splint should be re-applied and kept on for about four weeks after the operation. Except when a very large amount of bone has had to be removed and there is therefore much looseness of the joint, the splint may be abandoned after four weeks, the arm carried in a sling, and passive movement still more vigorously employed. This is the critical period in the history of the case, as about this time stiffness tends to increase very rapidly, and therefore active movement should be encouraged. A good apparatus designed to enable the patient to practise passive move- ment for himself may be made by carrying a rope, to one end of which a weight is attached, round an overhead pulley. The patient grasps the free end of the rope with the sound hand, and seizes the other end a Httle above the weight with the hand on the affected side. All that is necessary is to pull upon the rope with the sound hand ; this flexes the fore-arm, and, when the pull is relaxed, the weight extends the limb (see Fig. 72); this should be done for from half an hour to an hour at a time twice or three times daily. In carrying out the after-treatment, two conditions must be carefully guarded against : on the one hand, the limb must not be allowed to get stiff, on the other, a flail-joint must not be permitted. It is at this period, about a month after the operation, that the surgeon is best able to judge what is likely to happen. When the case is going on well, there will be some slight difficulty in obtaining complete flexion and extension, although movement should be pretty good ; if, on the other hand, the joint be quite loose and complete extension can be got without difficulty, a flail joint is to be feared, and it is then best to put the arm up in plaster of Paris or waterglass for three or four weeks without attempting any further passive movement. It will then be seen whether the joint is still loose or whether sufficient contraction has occurred to require passive movement. There is seldom any difficulty in preserving pronation and supination. When, in spite of this, it is found that the joint is too lax, it is well to apply an apparatus consisting of two pieces, one of which grasps the upper arm and the other the fore-arm, the two being connected by a metal band over each side of the elbow jointed to permit of flexion and extension. This apparatus prevents lateral mobility, and, if worn for some months, it is quite possible that a joint which was at first very lax may finally be quite satisfactory.