115 TUBERCULOSIS. he may be wheeled out of doors. When the affected joint is in the upper extremity, the patient will, of course, be allowed to walk about from the first. In sanctioning exercise, it is of the highest importance to impress upon the patient that this must be of the gentlest possible description; any slight injury to another joint may quite readily set up similar disease there. The patient should always remember in taking exercise that he is an invalid, and should not therefore join in any violent games, or any unduly vigorous exercise. Dietetic.—The diet is of great importance. It must be as nourishing as possible, and should consist of the most easily digested foods. A meat diet is preferable to a vegetable one; the consumption of potatoes and vegetables containing much potash should be largely restricted. Medicinal.—Drugs are also valuable in the treatment of tuberculosis, the chief reliance being placed on cod-liver oil in one of its various forms, particularly as an emulsion. This drug should be given even though the patient appears to be fat and well nourished, but it should not be given in too large doses, as it may upset the digestion. It is usually best to begin with a teaspoonful twice a day, and to gradually increase it until a tablespoonful is being taken thrice daily; it is well to intermit it in warm weafher. Iron is of considerable value should the patient be anaemic, whilst guaiacol in capsules of from two to three minims three times a day is also to be recommended. The latter drug may, if preferred, be administered by subcutaneous injection. Unfortunately, it is only comparatively well-to-do patients who can pro- perly avail themselves of the best hygienic treatment, which, to be of any real value, should be persevered with until recovery is complete; this usually means a period not of weeks or months, but of years. With the poor, such treatment is quite out of the question at present, and it seems very advisable that every hospital for the treatment of these diseases should have a department in the country to which the patient can be sent and kept under careful treatment for as long as may be necessary. At Paddington Green Children's Hospital we carry this out by having a Convalescent Home in the country to which tuberculous cases are sent as soon as the local condition permits, and at which they are kept as long as may be necessary. The Home is within reach of town, and the treatment can therefore be superintended from time to time by those who have had charge of the case from the first. To send a patient with tuber- culous joint disease—especially if any operative interference has been practised—to one of the ordinary Convalescent Homes for the usual period of three weeks is not only quite useless but is actually objectionable, in so far as the patient passes out of the hands of the surgeon who had the original charge of the case at a period at which it is inadvisable to make any change in the local treatment. It is extremely desirable that Homes to which tuberculous surgical cases can be sent, such as that in connection with Paddington Green Children's Hospital, should be established in con