viii PREFACE. Only those pkhs are described which our experience has led us to believe are the best, but with regard to these we have endeavoured to state exactly and in detail what we ourselves should do under given circumstances. In some cases no doubt several methods of treatment xare of equal value, and while we have only discussed at length that which we have ourselves been led to adopt, we have referred shortly to the others. We have not mentioned all the exceptional conditions that may be met with, but we have endeavoured to include all the circumstances with which the surgeon is most commonly called upon to deal. The task has been one of some difficulty, the more so as we have had, to a certain extent, to break new ground. This must serve as our excuse for the many shortcomings in the work. PREFACE TO PART IV. We have pleasure in acknowledging obligations to several friends who have given us much assistance in bringing out this volume. First among these is Dr. Percy Lewis of Folkestone, who has very kindly given us permission to reproduce i?t extenso the admirable manual of Medical Exercises that forms the Appendix to the chapter on Scoliosis. This is taken verbatim from his book O71 the Relief and Cure of Spi?ial Curvature, and is so comprehensive that we have not ventured to make any additions to it; the figures illustrative of the text are either copied from his work or are designed upon the same lines as those appearing there. Certain other illustrations in the same chapter are from the same source. Dr. Leslie Walsh of Bath has also been good enough to furnish us with a full and practical account of the thermal treatment as carried out for rheumatoid arthritis at Bath, for which we owe him many thanks. Dr. G. A. Suther- land, Dr. Lambert Lack, and Dr. J. Curtis Webb have given much highly- appreciated help in seeing the sheets through the press. The Illustrations are nearly all from photographs or original sketches and have been made by Mr. T. P. CoUings; the exceptions to this are the illustrations of instruments—which have been most kindly furnished by Messrs. Down Brothers; Fig. 8 from Helferich's Manual of Fractures atid Dislocations—which we owe to the courtesy of the Council of the New Sydenham Society ; Figs. 54 and 74 from Holmes's System of Surgery—for which we are indebted to Messrs. Longmans; and Figs. 135, 136, and 138 from Bradford and Lovett's well-known work. In answer to several critics who have reproached us for not having mentioned certain methods of treatment to which they personally are