DISEASES OF THE ELBOW JOINT. 259 CHARCOT'S DISEASE. The elbow is a common seat of this affection, the treatment of which has been already described (see p. 141). The special point of importance in the elbow joint is to provide the patient with a splint which will give a certain amount of firmness to the joint while permitting flexion and extension. This may be used after the stage of acute swelling has subsided, and should take the form of a leather case for the upper arm and another for the fore-arm, the two being connected at the elbow by jointed lateral steel rods. TUBERCULOUS DISEASE. This affection generally occurs in early adult life, about the age of sixteen; only about 33% of cases begin before ten years of age. As with tuberculous joint disease elsewhere, the primary deposit may be in the synovial membrane—when it is most frequent in the radio-ulnar articulation, —or in the bone—when it is generally either in the olecranon or the external condyle of the humerus. It would appear that primary bone disease is more common than the primary synovial form. Owing to the superficial nature of the elbow joint, it is sometimes possible to define the osseous deposits before the joint has become involved, and this is particularly the case when the deposit is in the olecranon. The disease runs the same course here as elsewhere. The swelling in the joint is most marked on each side of and above the olecranon ; the elbow is flexed and the fore-arm pronated. Abscesses when present are most common about the posterior and outer aspects of the joint. Treatment.—The treatment of tuberculous disease of the elbow joint may be divided, like the treatment of tuberculous joint disease elsewhere, into expectant and operative treatment. (a) Expectant.—The joint is put up with the fore-arm flexed either to or slightly beyond a right angle, and with the hand midway between pronation and supination, as this is probably the most useful position for the limb should the joint become stiff. A very good method of fixing the joint is to envelope the elbow in a large mass of cotton wool and then to apply a bandage impregnated with a solution of silicate of potash firmly over it. The bandage should extend from the wrist—or in bad cases from the knuckles—up to the shoulder, and the fore arm should be carried in a sling; the fingers should always be left free and the patient encouraged to move them. Results.—The result of expectant treatment is always a stiff elbow, except in some cases of pure synovial disease, which may recover pretty rapidly with a movable joint. In children, expectant treatment may be persevered with for a considerable time, but in adults we are of opinion that in most cases it is a mere waste of time to employ it for a prolonged period, as a better result on the whole is to be obtained by