THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. as in the former case, nor will there be any likelihood of the down- ward displacement recurring, as the weight of the limb is sufficient to prevent that. The arm should be fixed to the side, and the elbow supported in a large elbow-sling. DISLOCATIONS OF THE STERNAL END. Owing to the great strength of the rhomboid Hgament, dislocation of the sternal end can hardly occur except as the result of extreme violence; this accident is therefore of very rare occurrence, and is usually accompanied by other serious injuries. The commonest displacement is forwards, in front of the sternum ; in other cases, however, the sternal end may be driven backwards behind that bone, or directly inwards, so that it lies in the supra-sternal notch. The dislocation is generally the result of severe violence applied to the point of the shoulder, and the direction of the dislocation depends to some extent on the direction in which the shoulder is carried by the injury. If it be pushed forwards, the sternal end may be displaced backwards and vice versa; whereas if it be depressed the sternal end will be displaced upwards. The result of the dislocation is considerable interference with the move- ment of the upper extremity. In addition to this, severe dyspnoea or even dysphagia from pressure upon the trachea or oesophagus are met with when there is backward displacement. When the sternal end is displaced directly upwards the rhomboid ligament is torn as well as those of the joint proper. TREATMENT.—As in dislocations of the acromial end, it is often a matter of the greatest difficulty to keep the ends of the bones in position after reduction. It is generally best to place the patient under an antesthetic, and to carry the shoulder forcibly backwards and outwards, when the sternal end of the bone can be pushed into position, ^^■hen severe dyspncea is present, an aneesthetic should be avoided; the best plan then is to have the patient sitting upon a chair while the surgeon, standing behind the patient with his foot upon the same chair, places his knee against the spine and, grasping one shoulder in each hand, pulls them forcibly backwards. When the shoulders have been carried sufficiently far back the sternal end of the bone is disengaged, and either slips into place or can be pushed forwards by the fingers. It needs a good deal of care, however, to prevent the deformity recurring. The best plan is to brace the shoulders back by means of handkerchiefs applied as for fractured clavicle (see Fig. 2, A). At the same time the elbow should be supported and brought well forward over the chest (see Fig. 2, B). Ufireduced dislocation.—In long-standing cases, where the dislocation has not been reduced, and in some recent cases when the end of the bone is displaced backwards and presses on the trachea, and cannot be got