THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. be assured by performing passive movement of the hip through a limited range twice a week after the wound has healed. The patient need not be kept in bed after six weeks or so ; he may be allowed to get about on crutches with a high boot on the sound foot so as to avoid any risk of the affected foot being put to the ground. (2) By an external incision.— When the disease extends far out along the neck of the femur, and especially when there are several sinuses, a freer and better opening may be obtained by an incision over the outer surface of the trochanter, commencing about two inches above its upper border and running vertically down- wards for four or five inches (see Fig. 49). The knife should be carried through the glutei muscles directly down to the bone, and the trochanter itself is cut into. This structure is usually still cartilaginous in young subjects, and the epiphyseal portion may be divided into two halves with the knife. These retain their muscular connections above and are still connected with the periosteum of the femur Fig. 49.—Excision of the Hip by i , ri-ii .1 n j -j i AN External Incision. The limi. below. They are then pulled aside, and Swal'''""""'-'*''"'"'■"'"'''^ access is at once gained to the neck of the femur. In adults, or in those in whom ossification in the trochanter has taken place, a portion of this structure may be split off on each side with a chisel, leaving it attached to the muscles above and the periosteum below; in this way the neck of the bone is exposed. The neck of the femur is .sawn through with an Adams' osteotomy saw (see Fig. 48), outside the limit of the disease—usually on a level with the trochanter—the saw being directed obliquely downwards and forwards. The head and neck of the bone are then seized with lion forceps and gradually extracted. In these cases the removal of the head and neck of the bone in one piece is very difficult if the ligamentum teres be intact, but, when the latter structure is destroyed, there is no particular difficulty. The manoeuvre is much aided by freely incising the capsular ligament, when the admission of air into the joint facilitates the removal of the head. Should it be difficult to take the latter away in one piece, there is no objection to chiselling it out of the acetabulum piecemeal. The subsequent steps are similar to those recommended for the anterior operation. In this method there is much better access to the posterior part of the capsule, so that a second incision is unnecessary. (3) By a posterior incision.—In very bad cases, especially in adults, or zvhen there is dislocation of the head of the bone on. to the dorsum ilii, a curved incision passing behind the trochanter is very useful and pro-