28 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. Treatment of injury to the nerves.—When the brachial plexus is injured it is often difficult to diagnose the exact nature of the lesion. It is not uncommon to find the head of the bone pressing so forcibly upon one of the axillary nerves as to produce paralysis or anaesthesia. If this be simply due to pressure it will be quite temporary; in other cases it may be more or less permanent, and is then due either to bruising of the nerve and possibly some extravasation of blood into its sheath or to actual rupture. The first thing is to reduce the dislocation, when, if there be no com- plication calling for incision, the case must be watched to see whether the nerve recovers its functions. Recovery will occur if there be mere bruising or slight extravasation of blood, and in a fortnight or three weeks, if massage be practised and electricity^ applied in the meanwhile, there should be fairly complete restoration of function. If, however, no recovery has taken place by this time, it may be assumed that the nerve is more or less permanently damaged, and an attempt must be made to restore its functions by operation. The nerve must be cut down upon and examined, and the ends, if torn, must be accurately sutured; if it be compressed by blood or cicatricial tissue, the blood must be turned out or the cicatricial tissue removed; if, without solution of continuity, the nerve structure has been practically destroyed by bruising at the point of pressure, excision of the damaged part with immediate union of the divided ends will be indicated. These operations have been fully described under injuries of nerves (see Part II., Chap. XVIII.). TREATMENT OF COMPOUND DISLOCATION. This complication is of extreme rarity, and when it occurs is usually only part of a very extensive injury; there is generally such damage to the surrounding parts, either in the way of fracture of the bony structures in the neighbourhood or injuries to the vessels or nerves in the axilla, that it not at all uncommonly calls for amputation. Should, however, the condition of affairs justify an attempt to save the limb, the surgeon must enlarge the wound, disinfect it and the skin around thoroughly in the manner already described (see p. 5), and must then replace the head of the bone, insert a medium-sized drainage tube at the most convenient spot, suture the rent in the capsule, and treat the case on the ordinary lines. Passive movement must be begun in the joint within four or five days of the injury, or there will be great danger of adhesions occurring. Should the attempt at disinfection fail, or should the case not be seen until some days after the injury, when suppuration is established, the treatment will be that for a suppurating joint (see Chap. XII.). ^ The galvanic current is best. The negative pole should be applied over the injured Tierve, the positive being over the spine. A current of 6 to 8 milliamperes, passed for ten minutes daily, is often very valuable.