CHAPTER IX. DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANKLE AND FOOT. DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANKLE. VARIETIES.—Dislocations of the ankle joint are not infrequent, but they are in most cases complicated with fracture of one of the bones entering into the articulation ; in fact, dislocation of the ankle without fracture is only possible in one of two directions, namely, forwards or backwards, and even in these forms there is a tendency for the tip of the malleolus to be broken off. The common form of dislocation of the foot—i.e. the dislocation out- wards that is met with in Pott's fracture—has already been fully described (see Part III., Chap. VIII.). Of these two forms of dislocation uncomplicated by fracture, dislocatmi of the foot backwards is the more common. The whole of the tarsus is carried bodily backwards behind the tibio-fibular arch, which therefore comes to lie in front of the astragalus and rests upon the scaphoid and cuboid bones. The accident generally results from indirect violence of considerable severity. It more commonly occurs when the toes are pointed, and the internal malleolus is not infrequently fractured. Dislocation of the foot fonvards also occurs from indirect violence, but generally when the foot is in a position of excessive dorsal flexion. TREATMENT.—Reduction should be practised under an anaesthetic. An assistant fixes the leg whilst extension is applied to the foot; as down- ward traction is made, the deformity is first increased in order to disentangle the edge of the astragalus from the edge of the tibio-fibular arch against which it is lodged. AVhen sufficient traction has been made, the foot is either flexed or extended according to the nature of the displacement; when the foot is displaced backwards, the plantar flexion of the foot is increased, the foot is forcibly pulled forwards and downwards, and then rapidly dorsi- flexed. In a dislocation of the foot forwards, movements in exactly the reverse direction are practised; traction is made and the dorsal fle.xion is increased; then, while traction is maintained, the foot is pushed backwards and is finally flexed forcibly downwards.