THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE. 35: The essential basis of support should be the pelvis (see Fig. 137); a poroplastic jacket should extend upwards from a pelvic band, grasping the thorax, covering the shoulders, and expanding above to receive the head. Flexion of the cervical spine is thus effectually prevented, which is not the case when the apparatus rests on the shoulders or even when it is fixed round the thorax. Another very good arrangement is to attach a steel ring to Taylor's brace by an upright rod, the ring being made to open in front, and arranged so as to act as a rest for the chin, and occiput, counter pressure being arranged at the upper part of the dorsal region (see Fig. 138). Other supports of this kind for cervical disease need not be detailed here. Of complications.—The two chief complica- tions are paralysis and abscess. Paralysis.—When paralysis is present or is threatened, we are strongly of opinion that double extension should be rigorously employed in the first instance ; in a large number of cases in which we have used this method it has acted like a charm, the paralysis being very rapidly recovered from and all necessity for operative interference being avoided. Indeed in children improvement was porting the chin which is fixed .... , , . to an upward prolongation of actually noticcd withm three days from the the spinal support. {A/U-r r i • i i Bradford and Lovett.) Commencement or the extension, and progressed steadily until recovery was complete. Mere recumbency in bed, however rigidly the spine be fixed, is not sufficient, and the double extension evidently acts by tiring out the muscles and preventing their tonic contraction, whereby the inflammation of the spine and the secondary inflammation of the membranes is diminished, so that absorption of the inflammatory products very quickly occurs. The marked benefit of double extension as compared with simple rest in bed shows what an important influence this tonic contraction of the muscles plays in keeping up the disease. Even in old-standing cases of paralysis, we think that, before proceeding to operative measures, a fair trial should be given for some weeks to double extension, with increasing weights if necessary. In our experience laminectomy will not be required in the great majority of instances. Lamitiectomy.—Certain cases remain however in which laminectomy is the only treatment which promises relief; such for example are abscesses or masses of caseous material in the spinal canal, or constriction of the cord from thickening of the dura mater around it, i.e. pachymeningitis. The operation of laminectomy has already been described (see p. 288). On opening the spinal canal one or other of the conditions already mentioned Fig. 138.—'J'aylor's Brace as modified for use in cer- VICAL Spinal Disease. This is the ordinary brace to which is added the metal ring sup