113 TUBERCULOSIS. with the joint, and leads to sudden infection of its interior, these slightly marked symptoms suddenly become acute; the patient is seized with pain ; there is considerable swelling of the joint, with starting pains at night, and marked flexion. It is very often not until these acute .symptoms have appeared that any history is given of previous trouble in the joint. The after-history of these cases is that the joint cavity becomes filled with semi-purulent fluid, the synovial membrane is thickened, although not very markedly, while abscesses form and burst around the joint, leading to sinuses connected with carious bone; the general health suffers greatly, for the patient cannot sleep at night on account of the excruciating starting pains in the limb which come on just as he dozes off; he gradually wastes, and acute tuberculosis not infrequently ends the case. W/ien the disease is primarily synovial, or when an osseous deposit reaches the surface of the bone at the point of reflection of the synovial membrane on to it, the symptoms are much less acute, and the changes ■consist mainly of thickening of the synovial membrane, at first often localised but gradually increasing in extent. In the early stage there is but slight interference with the free mobility of the joint, and little or no pain; as the affection of the synovial membrane advances, movement gradually diminishes, and when the cartilages become destroyed, the more severe symptoms, such as starting pains at night with abscesses around the joint, etc., begin to appear. A patient with pure synovial joint disease is generally more or less free from pain as long as the limb is kept at rest. In the rare cases in which there is a localised thickening of the synovial membrane forming a more or less pedunculated mass projecting into the joint, the symptoms at first are effusion into the joint with some tenderness on pressure over the thickening, which may suggest the presence of a loose body. The nature of the case is soon made evident by the gradual extension of the disease to the rest of the synovial membrane. In all these cases of tuberculous joint disease a very remarkable and early feature in the case is the rapid wasting of the muscles which act upon the joint. In the case of the knee the thigh muscles waste with great rapidity, so that the enlargement of the articulation appears greater than it really is owing to the muscular atrophy. This condition is common to many acute joint diseases, but is more marked and more rapid in the tuberculous form than in any other, and it is probably caused to some extent by a neuritis spreading from the articular nerves. GENERAL POINTS IN TREATMENT OF TUBERCULOUS JOINT DISEASE. From the point of view of treatment, tuberculous joint disease may be divided into the following groups : I. Localised tuberculous deposits in the bone, before the joint has become affected. PT. IV. H