277 INJURIES OF THE SPINE. of the ligaments. Htemorrhage occurs either outside the dura mater or' within it—a condition known as hceiiiato-rachis. (3) As the result of severe injuries or jars, with or without rupture of ligaments or muscles, the condition known as concussion may arise; here there is more or less complete but temporary loss of function of the spinal cord. (4) Apart from hfemorrhage into the spinal meninges, bleeding may in some cases of severe injury occur in the substance of the cord itself—the condition known as hcemaio-inyelia. According to Thorburn, this is practi- cally limited to the cord in the lower cervical region. (5) Lastly, as the result of the more severe forms of violence we may have dislocation of the spine, which may occur in the cervical region or, more usually, a fracture-dislocation occurring most frequently in the lower cervical and in the dorso-lumbar regions. SPRAINS. Sprains of the spinal column are usually associated with some partial rupture of ligaments or tearing of the tendinous insertions of the spinal muscles. In very severe injuries, the ligamenta subflava may actually be torn, when the gravity of the case is increased, since hfemato-rachis then results. These injuries are much more common in the lumbar region than elsewhere, and next in frequency comes the cervical region, this distribution being due to the fact that these portions of the spine are the most mobile, and are therefore most likely to suffer injury. Symptoms.—-The symptoms vary much ui severity. In the mildest cases there is only slight pain at the time of the accident, whilst the most severe are often difficult to diagnose from actual fractures of the spine. Even when the pain is but slight at the time of the injury, considerable pain over the affected area generally follows in the course of from twelve to twenty-four hours; there is also tenderness on pressure, and the patient often experiences agonising pain on attempting to move the spine or the limbs, so that the back is kept absolutely rigid, and, unless the examination be conducted carefully, a condition of paraplegia may be diagnosed. Extravasation of blood may also be present if the lesion be extensive. Usually there are no nerve symptoms unless intra-spinal hjemorrhage be also present. These injuries are of great practical importance because, unless treat- ment be prompt and sufficiently prolonged, the patient is liable to great, or even permanent, disability from the supervention of chronic inflammation of the damaged tissues; when such a condition is established it may be very difficult to get rid of it. In some cases also, especially in children, sprains of the spine may be the starting-point of tuberculous disease. Treatment.—This may be divided into the treatment suitable for cases seen immediately after the injury, and that best adapted to those in which