126 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. involves a complete removal of the entire synovial membrane along with portions of the cartilage and even of the bone. As a rule a complete arthrectomy is a very extensive operation, and one requiring much patience and great care for its satisfactory performance. The whole of the diseased structures must be carefully removed by dissection. Scraping is quite inadmissible except over small areas, particularly in the cartilage, and, if employed at all, must be done with the greatest thoroughness. As an example of the operation, we may take an arthrectomy of the knee, in which the entire synovial membrane is involved. The first essential is to expose the capsule as completely as possible, and this we are accustomed to do by means of two free longitudinal incisions, one on either side of the patella, and at a Httle distance from it (see Fig. 36); in the first stage of the operation we do not open the joint. The incision is carried down through the capsule, the limits of which are carefully defined, and then all the tissues superficial to the synovial membrane are dissected off, so that the entire extent of the membrane beneath the quadriceps extensor is thoroughly exposed. When the whole of the front part of the synovial membrane has thus been separated from the tissues above it, a similar dis- section is carried out on each side as far back over the condyles as possible. In connection with this, it should be remembered that the folds of synovial membrane extend backwards for a very consid- erable distance. The lateral ligaments are then divided, and the synovial membrane separated from them. The dissection is then carried forwards as far as the edge of the patella on each side, and down to and behind the ligamentum patellar. This exposes the whole of the anterior and lateral aspects of the synovial membrane, which is then detached all round at its point of reflection on to the bone and the cartilage, and is cut away with scissors on each side as far back as possible. This exposes the joint freely from the front, and a fringe of synovial membrane is then seen around the edges of the cartilages of the femur, tibia, and patella. This fringe is carefully cut away with scissors or a knife. Access to the posterior part of the joint may, if necessary, be gained by connecting the two longitudinal incisions by a transverse one across the centre of the patella, completed by sawing that bone transversely. Usually, however, we find that if the vertical incisions be made long enough, it is not necessary to add this transverse one, as, by dislocating the patella first to one side, and then to the other, free access can be gained to the whole interior of the joint. The next step is to divide the crucial liga- FiG. 36. — Inxisions for Arthrectomy of the Knee. The longitudin.il in- cisions should be very free. The transverse one joining them across the centre of the patella is not always neces- sary.