3iS THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE. many children however strongly object to this, and there is no real objection to employing the other. A good plan is to alternate the position, the child being first placed in the prone position until it becomes too irksome, when the supine position may be assumed. The rest may be taken upon an ordinary hard couch; it is better however to have a suitable spinal couch if it be obtainable, so that the patient lies upon a slightly inclined plane. Exercises.—In addition to rest, some form of mechanical exercises must be provided, with the double view of strengthening the mu.scular system generally and of restoring the functions of those muscles that are mainly at fault in producing the curvature. JV/ien the curvature is ofily slight, little is required beyond general muscular exercises which can be carried out at home under the supervision of the parents or a capable nurse. Very good types of these exercises will be found in the Appendix (Series A, B, C, E, F, G, I). These exercises should be practised daily for a period varying from five or ten minutes to half an hour at a time, the most suitable time being in the late forenoon, and immediately after them the child should lie down for the mid-day rest. Full details of the position of the patient, etc., will be found in the instructions for the exercises and we need not go further into the matter here. In addition to these, dumb-bell exercises may be performed on rising in the morning for from five to fifteen minutes before dressing and are of considerable value. The dumb-bells should be very light, not exceeding a pound at the outset, the exact weight being chosen with regard to the requirements of the individual case. As the muscles get stronger and the patient more used to the exercises, the weight may be gradually increased, as may also the length of time during which the exercises are performed. The home exercises recommended above may be done with dumb-bells, and they are then equivalent to exercises carried out against resistance. When the patient is a girl, riding exercise is also useful, provided that it be not practised long enough to cause fatigue. The child should of course ride upon the same side of the horse to that upon which the convexity of the curve is, so that there will be a tendency to open out the curvature. In the early stages of the treatment it is important to impress upon the parents that, when any of these forms of exercise cause fatigue, they should be stopped at once and the child allowed to rest. Massage. — Massage to the muscles of the back is also very necessary, and should never be omitted. It should be employed twice a day for about half an hour, after breakfast and before going to bed. When the curvature is very marked, it will be necessary to employ special exercises and other procedures designed to act directly upon the curvature, in addition to those which aim at improving the muscles generally. The case will then be closely allied to those about to be described in the following paragraphs, and the exercises will be the same. (c) The curvatures of adolescence.—The treatment of the curva- tures which occur between puberty and the final cessation of growth often