TUBERCULOUS DISEASE. 343 contraction of the muscles surrounding the affected vertebrae. It is a most important diagnostic point especially in distinguishing the disease from hysterical affections. The deformity has already been mentioned, being either an abrupt acute curvature, a gradual curve, or the two combined. In some cases it may be somewhat lateral also; this is not a true lateral curvature, which has already been described (see Chap. XXVII.), but results from absorption of the vertebras on one side more than on the other. When the case is untreated, the patient usually dies from exhaustion from prolonged suppuration, from phthisis or from tuberculous meningitis. Abscess.—As in tuberculous disease elsewhere, the formation of a chronic abscess is a frequent accompaniment of tuberculous disease of the spine. It occurs most commonly in cases of superficial caries and is thus more frequent in adults than in children, and more common when the curva- ture is slight or apparently absent than when it is marked. These abscesses form in front of or at the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae, and occasionally in the spinal canal itself; they point in various places according to the region affected. In the upper cervical region they usually form in front of the vertebrae and give rise to a retro-pharyngeal abscess. In other cases they may extend into the upper part of the anterior triangle, or may pass back- wards and point in the sub-occipital region. Lower down in the neck, they usually appear in the lower part of the posterior triangle, or they may project forward beside the oesophagus or trachea; thence they may pass down into the thorax or into the axilla. In the dorsal region the abscesses form inside the thoracic cavity in front of or at the sides of the vertebrae, and they generally make their way backwards between the transverse processes and project in the back, forming dorsal abscesses. In other cases they extend laterally beneath the pleura and pass out between the ribs at the side, or even on the front of the chest, giving at first sight the impression that the case is one of abscess in connection with disease of the rib; indeed the rib may be actually diseased at the point where the abscess becomes superficial owing to infection from the pus. Abscesses from disease in the dorsal region may also pass down- wards through the pillars of the diaphragm and, entering the sheath of the psoas muscle, form typical psoas abscesses. In other cases, though very rarely, they extend into the posterior mediastinum and burst into the pleura or the lung. In the lumbar region the abscesses generally pass downwards in the sheath or substance of the psoas muscle, forming psoas abscesses, or they may pass backwards and form lumbar abscesses. When the last lumbar vertebra is affected, the pus may collect in the iliac fossa and point above the outer part of Poupart's ligament ; sometimes, though rarely, the abscesses extend backwards through the sacro-sciatic notch, or pass through the obturator foramen and they then point in the buttock, the back of the thigh, or even the perineum.