THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 192 head of the bone must be chiselled out of the acetabular cavity; it is impossible to pull it out after division of the neck on account of the bony anchylosis. The after-treatment in all these cases is the same (see p. 189). RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS. This is one of the commonest diseases of the hip in old subjects. The joint is one of the most frequent seats of mon-articular rheumatoid arthritis, and probably the condition known as vialum coxce senile, in which there are marked atrophic changes in the cartilage and bone, and which so frequently follows injury in old people, is merely a mild form of this disease. The affection in the hip is accompanied by much greater pain than in other joints, and this does not necessarily accompany movement, but may be very marked while the patient is lying in bed; it is, however, generally increased on movement. There is usually considerable fixation of the joint, which is somewhat flexed, adducted and rotated inwards. The head of the femur undergoes softening and absorption, and the angle it forms with the neck is considerably altered, so that it may be at right angles, or even at a somewhat acute angle. This gives shortening of the limb, which is not due to enlargement of the acetabulum or to dislocation, but to absorption and the altered position of the head and neck of the bone. The trochanter will therefore be often considerably above Nelaton's line in advanced cases. There is a marked tendency to the formation of osteophytes around the hip, and the patient may suffer from severe pain in addition to that attributable to the trouble in the joint; the pain arises from pressure upon the sciatic nerve by these osteophytic outgrowths, or from adhesion of the nerve to the capsule. Treatment.—This has been fully discussed on page 151, and there is little further to be said. It may, however, be occasionally necessary to consider the question of operation in cases in which the sciatic or obturator nerves are pressed upon by osteophytes, or have become adherent to the capsule of the joint. Under these circumstances it may be advisable to cut down and either free the nerve or remove the osteophytic growths which press upon it. The operations for exposing these nerves have already been described (see Part II., p. 273). The nerves after being freed, should be stretched, any osteophytic outgrowths being defined, and as much as necessary removed. Great improvement frequently follows the operation. The surgeon may sometimes be tempted to excise the joint; the pro- cedure, however, is not to be recommended. The operation is difficult on account of the displacement of the neck and the presence of osteophytes around it, so that it is accompanied by considerable shock, which may be fatal to an old subject. Besides this, the results are extremely