THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS- OF JOINTS. 38 is broken up, the surgeon is often tempted to content himself with removing the comminuted portion, but as a rule it will be found that when the ulna and radius are left untouched there is a great tendency to stiffness sub- sequently. It is always well, therefore, even although only the lower end of the humerus be damaged, to excise the usual amount of the bones of the fore-arm, and to perform the operation sub-periosteally in the manner which will be described when we describe excision of the elbow joint (see Chap. XXIII.). When the dislocation is accompanied by very widespread damage to important structures in the neighbourhood as well as to the bones, it may be necessary to have recourse to atnputation. In determining the question as to whether amputation is to be done, the surgeon will be guided by much the same considerations as in determining the similar question in connection with fractures (see Part III., p. 35). (d) Of unreduced dislocation.—In the elbow it is often possible to effect reduction as long as six weeks after the injury without damaging any important structures. The patient should be placed under an anaesthetic and, before reduction is attempted, the joint should be flexed and extended freely so as to break down adhesions. Forcible traction, if necessary by pulleys, is made to bring the fore-arm sufficiently down, and the elbow is then rapidly flexed and the coronoid process thus brought forward over the lower end of the humerus. When a longer interval has elapsed, the surgeon will generally have to consider the advisability of some form of operative procedure. It is seldom justifiable to leave the patient with an unreduced dislocation of the elbow, because, even should it be necessary to have recourse to excision, a far more useful joint can be obtained than will ever be likely to result from attempts to form a fresh joint by forcible movements. The difficult point to decide really is, whether an attempt should be made to replace the bones in position, or whether the surgeon should at once proceed to excise the joint. In a considerable number of cases the bones have been replaced in position, and where there has been no marked alteration in the joint surfaces,—as will probably be the case if no very long time has elapsed since the injury—the result has been very satisfactory. In order to get the bones into position, two vertical incisions, each about four inches long, should be made, one over the external, and the other over the internal condyle. Care must be taken not to damage the ulnar nerve at the upper end of the inner incision, whilst in the outer one, the posterior interosseous nerve must be avoided below. When the condyles are exposed, the soft parts are detached by a rugine in front and behind, until- the joint has been thoroughly opened up. When traction is made, the surgeon can now feel the structures that are tense, and should divide them, so long as they do not contain important structures; the bones can then be brought into position. As a rule