278 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE. a considerable time has elapsed and previous treatment has been either very inefficient or absent. (a) In recent cases.—Here immediate and absolute rest in the horizontal position should be enforced for at any rate a few days, the patient being confined to bed in the most comfortable position, which is usually upon the back, and the pain being relieved by the application of fomentations to the seat of injury; usually some narcotic, such as chloral or bromide of potassium, will also be required for the first night or two. In injuries about the lumbar spine the urine should be examined for blood, as it is not uncommon to find that the kidney is contused; if this be the case, special treatment for the arrest of the bleeding, if excessive, or for the maintenance of a gentle diuretic action, will be called for. Rest however must not be prolonged too long, otherwise, as in sprains elsewhere, the condition may become chronic; massage should therefore be begun almost from the very first. For the first four or five days it should consist of gentle rubbing in the upward direction, and, if the injury be severe, it should be performed without turning the patient over. It should be prac- tised for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes at a time, at first once, and later on twice, daily. After the first week it should be more vigorous and employed for a longer time, and it is well then to combine the massage with the use of some stimulating liniment, such as liniment, terebinth, acet., or the following : ^ Menthol, I/in. belladonnee, ~| Lin. camph. co., / The trouble will usually subside in the course of two or three weeks under this treatment, but it is well not to permit active movements until the case is practically well, as otherwise the condition may become chronic. (b) In long-standing cases.—When the patient is not seen until some time after the accident and the symptoms continue, the condition has become one of chronic inflammation of the damaged structures, and the essential symptoms are great pain on any attempt to move the spine. The treatment must be mainly that for chronic inflammation, of which counter-irritation is the most valuable. If the pain be comparatively slight, large blisters should be placed on either side of the spine and parallel to it over the afi"ected area; this may be repeated once a week. When the pain is extensive and deep-seated, the actual cautery may be of value, and for this purpose the flat cautery (see Part I., p. 19) is usually better suited than Corrigan's cautery. The patient is placed under gas, and the cautery, heated to a white heat, is rapidly passed three times over the skin on each side of the vertebral column. The separation of the sloughs is hastened by the application of boracic fomentations (see Part I., p. 48), and, when these have separated, savin ointment, either alone or diluted to half or quarter strength and with the addition of cocaine, should be applied 5ss. aa 5ss.