THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 100 however very likely to lead to extensive adhesions in the joint, which will entail considerable stiffness unless great care be taken in the treatment. On the other hand, those cases accompanied by extensive effusion may lead to so marked and prolonged a distension of the capsule, and consequent laxity of the ligaments, that there may be a permanent weakness of the joint left, which may be a source of very considerable trouble to the patient. In the severe cases accompanied by suppuration the result may be very disastrous, either from disorganisation of the joint, or from the occurrence of general septic infection. Treatment.—There are one or two points common to the treatment of all the various types above referred to. In the first place it is of great importance to subdue the urethral inflamtuatio7i as soon as possible, and this is best done by topical applications; internal remedies, such as oil of sandal and copaiba, have little influence upon the lesion in the urethra, which is of an essentially chronic nature, while they are very apt to depress the patient, to upset his digestive functions, and thus to do harm. The chief reliance must therefore be placed on intra-urethral medication, which may be effected either by the use of suitable injections, or, better, by topical applications made through the urethroscope in the manner that will be described when dealing with Gonorrhoea. A second point of great importance in all cases is that means must be taken to subdue the inflaimnation in the joint as quickly as possible, and in this connection the great tendency to adhesion and stiffness of the joint subsequently must be remembered; therefore prolonged rest must not be insisted upon, and passive 7notion must be resorted to early. Further, it is of importance to warn the patient that, after having had one attack of gonorrhoeal rheumatism, he is very likely to be affected similarly should he again contract the urethral affection. ^a) Of the simple rheumatic form.—Here there is little or no effusion into the joint, the symptoms are not acute, and the treatment is com- paratively simple. The best results are obtained in the early stage by the employment of counter-irritation combined with a certain amount of rest. Rest is best obtained by enveloping the affected joint in a number of layers of cotton wool and fixing these firmly in position with a bandage ; this will exert pressure and restrict movement. When the joints affected are in the upper extremity, the arm should be kept in a sling; when the lower extremity is the seat of the affection, the patient need not be confined to bed, but should be prevented from walking as much as possible, and should be confined to a couch, or should be provided with a suitable foot-rest. When the inflammation is about the tarsal joints, it is imperative that the patient should not bear any weight upon the foot, as otherwise there is a great risk of the supervention of flat-foot. Counter irritation is also of great value, and in the milder cases the linimentum iodi may be painted over the joint affected until the skin becomes sore; this should be employed in addition to the pressure above described.