THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 40 variety the radius remains in contact with the articular surface of the humerus. Treatment.—The dislocation is easily reduced under an anaesthetic by slight extension combined with pressure inwards, the bones slipping readily into position. When no anaesthetic is used the patient should sit upon a chair, while the surgeon grasps the limb, extends it, and brings it across his knee, as described for dislocations backwards (see p. 35); the articular surfaces readily slip into position. The after-treatment is the same as that for dislocation backwards. Dislocation of both bones inwards.—This is very rare, on account of the downward projection of the inner condyle of the humerus, and very considerable force is required to produce it. Treatment.—This is similar to that just described, except that the fore-arm is pressed outwards instead of inwards during reduction. DISLOCATION OF BOTH BONES FORWARDS.—This accident is sometimes met with either as the result of a severe blow upon the back of the flexed elbow, or from forcible traction—as when the arm is caught in machinery. Both bones are displaced forwards, and the olecranon lies in front of the articular surface of the humerus. The severity of the injury necessary for the production of the dislocation is so great that generally all the ligaments of the joint are ruptured and not uncommonly the dislocation is compound. Treatment.—Reduction is effected under an anaesthetic by fixing the upper arm and then forcibly flexing the elbow to its utmost limit and at the same time pushing the fore-arm downwards and backwards. As soon as the olecranon reaches the lower part of the articular surface of the humerus it clears its edge and the bones slip readily into position. The after-treatment is the same as that for dislocation of both bones backwards (see p. 35). DISLOCATION OF EITHER BONE ALONE. DISLOCATION OF THE ULNA ALONE.-This is such a rare injury that doubts have been thrown upon its occurrence, and more exact information, which is only to be obtained by means of skiagraphy, is required before much can be said about it. The dislocation is backwards; the orbicular ligament is ruptured, but the head of the radius remains in its normal position with regard to the lower end of the humerus. Treatment.—The treatment will be the same as that for dislocation of both bones backwards (see p. 35). DISLOCATION OF THE RADIUS ALONE.—This is a much more frequent injury, and it is not at all uncommon for the head of the radius to be dislocated forwards whilst the ulna retains its normal position. The accident usually occurs in children, and generally results either from falls upon the outstretched hand or from the common practice