THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 224 intercondyloid notch and hang into the joint, where they may be caught between the ends of the bones, and give rise to all the symptoms of a loose cartilage. The possibility of this should always be borne in mind when the patient has symptoms of a loose cartilage, but is unable to find one; under these circumstances it is of course justifiable to open the joint for purposes of examination. Treatment.—The best incision for opening the joint is a curved one around the inner edge of the patella with its convexity backwards; the horns of the incision should reach the middle line above and below the bone, and the limit of the convexity should be about two inches from its inner margin. The flap thus marked out is turned forwards, all bleeding in the superficial parts arrested and the capsule divided sufficiently to permit of proper inspection of the joint cavity. The patella and the ligamentum patellae are pulled well forwards, the synovial mem- brane examined to see if any villous outgrowths are present, and the finger is pushed into the recesses of the joint, particularly above the patella, to see if there be any loose body; finally, the ligamenta alaria are examined to see if they are detached. Should they be loose, the free ends will probably be thickened from the constant irritation, and they should be cut off close to the fatty pad and removed. The wound is then closed in the usual manner {vide supra). The after-treatment is the same as in the preceding cases. The patient does perfectly well without one or both of these ligaments. INJURY TO THE SEMILUNAR CARTILAGES.—This is perhaps the commonest form of internal derangement of the knee joint. One or both cartilages may be injured, the one usually affected being the internal. The accident follows some sudden strain, more particularly a twist of the leg upon the thigh, the internal semilunar cartilage being damaged by violent external rotation, whilst the external is injured by violent internal rotation. l"he accident most commonly occurs whilst playing football or lawn tennis, or whilst doing anything in which the leg is planted firmly upon the ground whilst the body is twisted violently round upon it. The lesions in the cartilage are various: sometimes it is split longi- tudinally ; sometimes it is completely divided transversely; in other cases it is torn from its connection with the tibia whilst remaining attached at its two ends; sometimes one of the attachments to the spine of the tibia is torn through and the free end curls up in the intercondyloid notch and gets nipped between the ends of the bones; in other cases again there may be practically complete detachment of the entire cartilage. The exact lesion present cannot be clearly made out before the jomt is opened. The symptoms are very apt to recur on any very slight injury, such as knocking the toe against a stone, rotating the foot, or some equally trivial movement. Treatment.—It is well to differentiate between the treatment of this