THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. In attempting reduction the patient should always be fully anaesthetised, and an assistant is required to fix the leg with the knee fully flexed. The affected foot is grasped by one hand over the instep and the other over the heel, and firm downward traction is made in order to disengage the astra- galus ; at the same time the toes should be somewhat depressed. When full extension has been made, the whole foot is pressed forward by the hand over the heel, when the astragalus may slip into place, dorsal flexion being employed as it does so. It is common to have to repeat these manipulations several times before it is possible to reduce the dislocation, but the surgeon may be unsuccessful even after repeated trials. Should manipulations fail, it will be necessary to expose the dislocation, as it cannot be left unrelieved, on account of the extreme uselessness of the foot which results. An incision is made along the inner border of the foot, commencing about an inch above the internal malleolus, and running downwards and forwards over the neck of the astragalus. This exposes the tendon of the tibialis anticus, and when the wound is thoroughly retracted the nature of the obstacles to reduction can be investigated. Should the main obstacle be the slipping of the tibialis anticus tendon beneath the neck of the astragalus, the head of the bone can be levered up, and the tendon may be hooked aside whilst the foot is forcibly pushed forwards, and the astragalus slipped back into position. Should it be found impossible to reduce the dislocation even after this exploration, the best treatment is to proceed immediately to excision of the astragalus, which can be effected partly through the incision already made, and partly through a somewhat similar one on the outer side. Excisioti of the Astragalus.—The inner incision is practically identical with the one that will have been already made. It should commence over the anterior border of the tibia and run downwards over the ankle as far as the scaphoid. It should not go directly down to the bone, the tibialis anticus tendon being defined and hooked out of the way before the incision is deepened. The outer incision commences two inches above the tip of the external malleolus, and is carried downwards and forwards parallel to the one on the inner side to a point opposite the lower extremity of the cuboid (see Fig. 30). This incision is at once carried down to the bone.