INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. 97 diminishes, the mackintosh can be left off, so that the dressings become dry dressings; salicylic wool should then be employed outside them. As the discharge diminishes, the drainage tubes should be gradually shortened until finally they are removed. It is well to leave to the last those that drain the most dependent parts of the joint. For example, in the knee joint the lateral drainage tubes should be shortened so that they project merely from the lateral aspect of the limb and no longer emerge through the anterior opening. Similarly those which pass across the joint may be cut in two so that there is a tube on each side, and these should be carefully shortened. In all cases where joints are drained, care must be taken that the drainage tube does not slip into the articular cavity. For this purpose they may be secured either by knotted threads or by safety pins as already described (see Part I., p. 27). The drainage tube in the most dependent situation should be removed last. When the treatment is successful it will generally be found that the cartilages have not undergone complete destruction, and that bony anchy- losis does not therefore occur. Firm fibrous union between the ends of the bones, and extensive adhesions in the capsule are certain to take place, and therefore, as soon as the wound has healed, or indeed as soon as the septic condition has disappeared, massage and passive move- ments should be at once commenced so as either to break up the adhesions or to stretch them sufficiently to obtain a certain amount of movement. These attempts should be extremely gentle at first, because the tissues are still highly vascular, and if too much be done inflammation may result, even though the wound be healed. As time goes on, the extent of the movements may be increased, and active movement may then be combined with passive motion. In a month or six weeks after healing, the adhesions may, if necessary, be broken down gradually under an antesthetic, as will be described in detail in connection with anchylosis (see Chap. XVIII.). No attempt should be made to save the limb when the general condition of the patient is bad, or when there is spreading osteo-myelitis or general septic infection, as indicated by asthenic fever, rigors, and hectic temperature. Similarly, when, after an attempt to save the joint, the bones become exposed, the pain is intense, and abscesses form around the joint, some more radical measures will have to be employed. The proper prac- tice is to amputate through the shaft of the proximal bone should this be healthy ; should there be osteo-myelitis, however, the amputation must be through the articulation above. Whenever amputation is performed through the shaft of one of the affected bones, the greatest possible care must be taken to go well above the joint, and the medulla at the point of bone section should be examined in order to make sure that osteo-myelitis is absent. Should pus be found in the medulla, a second amputation must be done higher up, or should the first amputation have been performed near the upper end of PT. IV. G