357 ACTINOMYCOSIS. ACTINOMYCOSIS. This is another very rare disease of the spine, which, when it occurs, is accompanied by abscesses that can only be treated by scraping. When actinomycosis attacks the spine, it usually involves other structures in the neighbourhood, such as the pleura and ribs, at the same time, and the chances of recovery are extremely slight. NEW GROWTHS. Tumours in connection with the spine may be divided into those which occur in connection with the bones, and those which occur in the interior of the canal forming the so-called tumours of the spinal cord. OF THE VERTEBRAE.—The tumours in connection with the bones may be either primary or secondary, the primary tumours being usually exostoses and sarcomata. The most common malignant tumour of the spine is the secondary carcinoma following a primary growth elsewhere, more especially in the breast; this generally affects the bodies of the vertrebrte, and leads to extensive destruction. Symptoms.—The earliest and most marked symptom of cancer of the vertebrae is intense pain, which is not merely limited to the spine, but after a time radiates along the course of nerves which pass out of the intervertebral foramina in the immediate neighbourhood. A second char- acteristic symptom is paralysis, which sets in very quickly, and has not that gradual onset which is seen in cases of tuberculous disease, or of tumours of the spinal cord ; complete paralysis may develop within a few hours. Angular curvature also occurs in some cases of cancer of the spine, but it is not such a marked feature as the pain and the paralysis. Treatment.—With the exception of the exostoses, the treatment of these tumours must be purely palliative, and aimed at relieving the symptoms. In cases of secondary cancer, where curvature is becoming evident, the pain may be to some extent alleviated by the application of a spinal support— such as a Taylor's Brace—with the view of preventing the bones being pressed together. As, however, most of the pain is due to the involve- ment of nerves, the chief agent in the treatment must be morphine. OF THE SPINAL CORD.—Much more interesting and important than the tumours of the bones are those of the spinal cord, for in a certain proportion of cases, operative measures may relieve the symptoms, or indeed effect a cure. Tumours in the interior of the spinal canal may be extra-meningeal, intra-meningeal,' or even in the cord itself. Their most common seat is within the dura mater, and they may take the form of any known kind of tumour. The most common form is probably a myxoma, while lipomata, sarcomata, tuberculous tumours, and syphilitic gummata occur; echinococcus cysts have also been found.