THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE. 30O Part I., p. 139). The child should lie on a'hot-water pillow, the extremities should be wrapped up in cotton wool and the operation performed as rapidly as possible. When the skin over the tumour is thick and has a plentiful supply of subcutaneous tissue, a curved incision may be made round the upper edge of the tumour and a horse-shoe-shaped flap turned down. In most cases however the skin over the centre of the tumour is so thinned that it would hardly live if treated in this way and therefore elliptical incisions enclosing and removing a considerable portion of the skin over the pro- minence of the swelling have usually to be employed (see Fig. 79). All the tissues down to the sac- itself should be taken up in the skin-flap; when the sac is exposed, it is often easy to peel off the skin and subcutaneous tissues from it with the handle of the knife. The sac is now pricked and the cerebro-spinal fluid allowed to flow out gradually, the child's head and shoulders being kept dependent so as to avoid too sudden an escape of the fluid. The next point is to ascertain whether nerve elements are present in the sac. The opening is gradually and carefully enlarged, and the inner surface of the sac inspected both by touch and sight. The redundant portion of the sac is now excised and the remainder of its wall sutured over the gap. In excising the redundant portion of the sac, the incision should be made to one side, so that the deep line of sutures will not correspond with the sutures in the skin which fall more or less in the middle line (see Fig. 80). The skin-flap is then laid down, and united by a con- tinuous suture, the ordinary antiseptic dressings are applied and the child kept on its face, with the head somewhat dependent until heal- ing is complete. When the defect in the neural arches is very wide and the coverings of the tumour are almost entirely membranous, it may be impossible to make the flaps meet in the middle line. It will then be necessary either to undermine the skin for some distance around and bring the edges together with stitches of relaxation (see Part I., p. 155), or else to do a plastic operation and turn in a skin-flap from below. The after-treatment practically consists in taking care to avoid septic infection. The dressings should be fixed on with collodion or strapping instead of with bandages, and each dressing should be small in quantity and renewed at least twice daily, especially when the affection is in the lower sacral region and where consequently there is great risk of soiling of the wound. Fig. 80.— The Flap Method of Excising a Spina Bifida. The incision is that shown in B of the preceding figure. When this skin in- cision is sewn up it forms a median cicatrix b. By making the elliptical incision in the sac wall a little to one side, the line of suture is made not to correspond with that of the skin—as is shown in a.