SCOLIOSIS. the faulty position thus produced must be substituted. Any physical de- fects, such as myopia, should receive treatment; adenoids or enlarged tonsils should be removed. Medicinal treatment.—In addition to this, the general health must receive attention as it is extremely common in this group of cases to find some physical ailment. Of these the principal are anasmia, or, should the child have reached the menstrual age, amenorrhoea or menorrhagia, the latter being an important predi.sposing cause of this affection by lowering the muscular tone of the patient from the excessive haemorrhage. The condition of the alimentary canal should be inquired into and dyspepsia or constipation, both of which are very common, should receive suitable treatment. Certain dietetic and general hygienic points also require attention. The diet should be abundant but light and easily digestible; cod-liver oil should be given when the child is particularly weakly. Stress should be laid upon the patient being as much as possible in the fresh air, in the country or at the seaside, and the size and ventilation of the living and sleeping rooms should receive due attention. The most important point is, however, the avoidance of fatigue which rapidly enfeebles the muscles and destroys the support of the spine. The treatment of the curvature itself will require a nice discrimination between rest and exercises, the exercises being designed to strengthen the muscles, the rest, to avoid tiring them. On the whole it is advisable that children at this period of life should lead a healthy, active outdoor life if it be possible for them to obtain it. Sitting and standing at lessons must be discouraged as much as possible in favour of vigorous outdoor exercise, which, by improving the general health and the muscular tone, will help to cure the curvature. The question of whether the patient shall continue at school is one that is constantly being asked, and so long as the advice just given is followed, there is no objection to the child doing so. The length of time for which she sits or stands at lessons should be cut down to the shortest possible amount compatible with her education, and, if care be taken to see that she sits upon a proper seat before a well-constructed desk (see p. 314) and if this be combined with a proper amount of rest and the performance of suitable gymnastic exercises {vide i7ifra), there is a distinct advantage in the child remaining at school as she will then probably be more amenable to the discipline required for the proper performance of the exercises. Recumbency.—A certain amount of rest in the recumbent position must always be rigidly insisted upon. The period of rest must of course be regulated by the particular features of the case, but in nearly all cases at least two hours a day are required. It is well to divide this period up into two equal portions and to order the patient to rest upon a couch for an hour about mid-day and for another hour in the late afternoon. If the patient will consent to it, the prone position is better than the supine;