112 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. increases jn size and makes its way to the surface of the bone, which it may reach either beneath the articular cartilage—which is most frequently the case—or just at or even beyond the point of reflection of the synovial membrane on to the bone. When the deposit reaches the under surface of the articular cartilage it perforates it, and thus a communication is established between the joint cavity and the tuberculous deposit. The result is rapid infection of the whole surface of the synovial membrane; this is generally marked by the onset of acute symptoms in a case in which they had previously been only slight. These cases were formerly described under the name of " acute ulceration of cartilage." On the other hand, when the deposit reaches the surface about the point of reflection of the synovial membrane on to the bone, the tuberculous material does not escape into the joint cavity at any rate at first, but leads to infection of the neighbouring synovial membrane and a gradual spread of the disease from this point over the rest of the joint; these, cases resemble in many respects those of primary synovial disease. Primary synovial disease.—When the tuberculous disease begins primarily in the synovial membrane it usually commences at one particular spot and from this gradually infects the remainder. Two different conditions are met with here; in the one there is a localised deposit which gives rise to the thickened synovial frifiges hanging down into the joint and forming a sort of pedunculated loose body; on the other hand, the disease, spreading from the primary focus, may extend uniformly over the whole of the synovial membrane and lead to getteral thickening of it. The further history of cases of synovial disease is that after the membrane has become more or less uniformly affected, the thickened structures spread gradually over the cartilages from the point of reflection of the synovial membrane, destroy them and then extend into the cancellous spaces at the ends of the bone, leading to the condition known as tuberculous caries. Abscesses also frequently form in the substance of the synovial membrane and these burst either outwards, inwards, or in both directions, leaving sinuses leading down to carious bone. Ultimately, if recovery takes place, anchylosis with various deformities results. SYMPTOMS.—The symptoms of tuberculous joint disease depend on the stage of the disease, and on whether it is primarily osseous or synovial. In the very earliest stage of the primary osseous affection the symptoms are not at all marked. At most the patient complains of a feeling of weight and slight aching about the end of the bone, which is found to have undergone localised thickening. In the case of the lower extremity there may also be a slight limp in walking, although there is actually no limitation of, or pain on, movement. Should such a group of symptoms occur in a patient previously the subject of tuberculous disease, or in one who has a bad tuberculous family history, the suspicion of tuberculous joint mischief is very strong. At a later stage, when the osseous deposit establishes a communication