172 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. benefit may be obtained by employing the actual cautery (see Part I., p. 19), which should be applied at a white heat in front of and behind the trochanter. The sore resulting should be kept open by savin ointment for at least six weeks. Fig. 37. —Extknsion by Weight and Pulley for Hip Disease. The extension is made by ihe weiglit aitaclied to the cord passing over the pulley fixed to the end of the bed. i he limb is kept from rotating by means of the transverse bar of wood fixed behind the knee with plaster of Paris bnndages. The trunk is kept horizontal by the sheet passed across the chest with a sandbag rolled up in each end. Counter-extension is made by raising the foot of the bed on blocks. (b) Primary synovial disease.—When, on the other hand, the disease is synovial, extension is not called for in the early stages; the best treatment here "is by means of a Thomas's hip splint. Thomas's hip splint (see Fig. 38) consists of a long flat bar of malle- able iron running down the back of the trunk and the affected extremity from the axilla to just above the ankle. It lies vertically against the trunk and is bent into a curve with the convexity backwards opposite the buttock, after which it is continued straight down behind the thigh and leg. The lower vertical portion is parallel to the upper, but lies on a plane somewhat anterior to it. The bar is twisted a little, so that it lies flat against the side of the trunk above, whilst it runs down the middle of the limb behind. In the ordinary Thomas's splint there are three cross-pieces attached to the vertical bar, and bent round to form wings on either side. The length of these wings is unequal on the two sides, the shorter ones being on the side corresponding to the affected limb. The upper wings encircle the thorax just below the axilla; the middle ones surround the lower part of the thigh; whilst the lowest encircle the upper part of the calf. The splint is secured to the trunk by a broad bandage and by special shoulder braces, whilst the lower portion is fixed by bandages between the lower wings; it is also generally well to add a stout pelvic band taking in the splint, or other- wise the pelvis may be moved to one side, and adduction or abduction may not be properly overcome.