296 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE. 5. Myelocele.—Not only is the bony framework deficient here, but the skin also is wanting and there is a communication between the interior of the spinal canal and the exterior. This of course leads to a free discharge of the cerebro-spinal fluid and the death of the patient usually occurs in a very few days. CLINICAL CHARACTERS.—From the point of view of treat- ment the following characters are important: (a) The size of the tumour, which may range from a small rounded swelling the size of a walnut to a large ovoid sac occupying the area of several vertebrae. (b) The size of the defect in the laminae.—^This may vary from a small opening barely large enough to admit a finger, up to a wide furrow occupying a considerable portion of the spinal column. There is however no constant ratio between the size of the tumour and the defect in the bones. (c) The coverings of the tumour.—The swelling is sometimes covered by normal skin; more commonly it is only surrounded by normal skin for about the lower half. Above that the wall -is thin, membranous and translucent, the skin being either very imperfectly developed or entirely absent, and its place being taken by a papery membrane. The area un- covered by skin is frequently ulcerating, and there are sometimes sloughs or even perforations through which the cerebro-spinal fluid escapes freely. (d) The contents of the sac.—A point of the very highest importance is whether nerve elements are present in, or adherent to, the wall of the sac. When . they are absent, the tumour is freely translucent in all directions; when present, however, they throw a shadow on trans-illumina- tion, and their distribuiion and character may often be made out very distinctly, especially when the covering of the sac is membranous. Too much reliance however must not be placed on the absence of a shadow as indicating absence of nerve elements, for in some cases no satisfactory shadow is- cast although the nerve elements are present. The presence of nerve elements in the sac is also often denoted by an umbilicus in the centre of the tumour or by a vertical median furrow corresponding to the attachment of the cord to the sac wall. (e) Malformations and paralyses.—In the great majority of cases other congenital malformations co-exist, the most common being talipes calcaneus, and nervous disturbances, such as want of control over the sphincters, loss of sensation and motion in the lower extremities, etc. Trophic ulcerations are naturally common in connection with these paralyses, and hydrocephalus is either a frequent accompaniment of the disease or not uncommonly follows attempts at a cure. These de- ficiencies of innervation are also met with in spina bifida occulta. Very few of the subjects of spina bifida reach adult life. Death usually occurs in the early weeks of life from marasmus, convulsions, septic troubles consequent upon the ulceration and rupture of the thin