DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. 51 joint, and when the head of the bone is dislocated backwards it determines the particular form of dislocation; when the head of the bone lies below the tendon, the displacement is known as a sciatic dislocation, and when it lies above it, as a dorsal dislocation. The regular dislocations are all primarily subcotyloid, as the head of the bone always escapes from the acetabulum. at its lower part, the inferior portion of the capsule usually being torn. This subcotyloid position, how- ever, is one of unstable equilibrium, and a further displacement invariably occurs, the head always passing either backwards or forwards, the direction that it takes being mainly determined by the direction of the force producing the injury, and the position of the limb at the time of the accident. The regular dislocations.—The regular dislocations of the hip, that is to say, those in which the Y-ligament and the margin of the acetabulum remain intact, are usually divided into four principal varieties, in two of which the head of the bone passes backwards, while in the remaining two it is found in front of the acetabulum. These dislocations are classified as follows : (1) The most common are the backward dislocations, and of these the true dorsal dislocation is the more frequent. The head of the bone, after leaving the acetabulum, passes backwards and upwards around its posterior margin, and finally rests upon the dorsum ilii, above the tendon of the obturator internus. (2) Instead of passing above the latter tendon, the head of the bone may rest below it, and is thereby guided backwards until it reaches the sciatic notch; this is termed the sciatic dislocation. (3) After leavfng the acetabulum, the head of the bone may pass obliquely inwards and forwards until it rests over the obturator foramen— the so-called thyroid dislocation. (4) Instead of passing on to the thyroid foramen, the head of the bone may travel upwards and inwards, and is then found in the neighbourhood of the spine of the pubes—the so-called pubic dislocation. Two other regular forms of dislocation are described, namely, the supra- spinous, in which the head of the bone lies above the anterior superior iliac spine; and the everted dorsal form, in which the head of the bone lies upon the dorsum ilii, but is directed forwards instead of backwards. In both of these dislocations, however, which are extremely rare, the outer limb of the Y-ligament is torn through. The irregular dislocations.—These are always accompanied by a rupture of the Y-ligament or by fracture of a portion of the acetabulum; the result of either of these injuries is that the head of the bone, instead of always passing out through the lower part of the capsule and then travelling either forwards or backwards, may leave the acetabulum any- where, and generally passes in the upward direction. In these cases many of the symptoms characteristic of the chief forms of regular dislocations may be absent.