183 DISEASES OF THE HIP JOINT. be passed through from one opening to the other; where this cannot be done, a large drainage tube must be introduced into each sinus, reaching down as far as possible. Antiseptic dressings should be applied, because it is just possible that the treatment may not have completely destroyed the septic organisms, and in any case it is better to avoid the entrance of more. The after-treattnent of the case will consist of complete fixation of the joint and careful dressing of the sinuses. The best method of fixing the joint is to apply a plaster of Paris spica in which suitable openings are left for dressing the sinuses ; the spica should extend up over the lower ribs. It should be strengthened both in front and behind the hip, either by strips of metal incorporated in the bandage or by strands of tow thoroughly impregnated with plaster. Below, it should reach to the upper part of the calf, so as to fix the knee joint as well as the hip, and it should be applied with the limb in a position of abduction. When the sinuses are situated so that it is difficult to apply the bandage without covering them in, metal bars bent outwards opposite the wound may be incor- porated with the bandage so as to provide a firm splint, and at the same time to give suf^icient interruption in it to allow proper access to the wound. The drainage tubes should not be removed for at least a week, as otherwise there may be some difficulty in re-introducing them. When two sinuses have been made to communicate, and a tube has been passed through from one to the other, a long loop of silk should be inserted into each end of the tube, and then, when it is desired to wash the latter, it will be easy to re-mtroduce it, because one end can be pulled upon until a considerable amount of the tube has been withdrawn ; this portion can be washed with a 1-2000 sublimate solution, and, by traction upon the second loop, the other end of tube can be made to project, until the whole tube has been thoroughly washed, when traction on the first loop will pull the tube into position again. After clean.sing the tube it is well to dust it with iodoform before it is put back into position. We do not consider that these tubes should be syringed out with any antiseptic; the only result of this is to irritate the wound without doing any good. After about three weeks, the tube may be cut in two and shortened, so that the outer end of each lies flush with the skin, whilst the deeper one goes to the bottom of the cavity. As healing takes place from the bottom, the tubes will be gradually pushed out and must be cut down. When a very large tube has been used at first, a somewhat smaller one may be substituted after a time. When a tube has been passed into each sinus they should not be dis- turbed for about a week. Each tube may then be withdrawn, cleaned, powdered with iodoform and replaced. In all cases the tubes should be kept in as long as possible, and, when it is found that the large tube will not go down to the bottom of the sinus, one of smaller calibre must be