THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 144 where one side alone is affected, and where the ataxic gait has not yet developed. Under these circumstances it may be impossible to control the joint sufificiently by an apparatus to enable the patient to get about, and matters may be much improved by performing a Syme's amputation, so as to enable an artificial foot to be worn. In the great majority of cases, however, any form of operative interference beyond the removal of the effusion in the early stages is not at all promising. JOINT AFFECTIONS FROM NEURITIS, ETC.—When the joint affection is due to neuritis or to some injury of the peripheral nerves, etc., the question of operation will naturally occur to the surgeon, and will have for its object either the arrest of the neuritis or the union of divided portions of the nerves, after which a certain amount of recovery from the joint trouble may be hoped for. For the treatment of these nerve lesions the reader is referred to Part II., Chap. XVIII JOINT NEUROSES. These affections generally occur in women between the ages of eighteen and thirty, but they may be met with at any period from early childhood up to old age; they have also been met with in hysterical men. Any joint may be affected, but the hip and the knee are the most common. In some cases the diagnosis is a matter of extreme difficulty, whereas in others it may be quite easy. In some cases, a typical joint disease may be simulated almost perfectly, but, as a rule, examination reveals a material discrepancy between the symptoms complained of and those which should be present were the case one of organic disease. This is particularly so in respect to the pain, which in hysterical cases is often said to be extremely severe and even excruciating. It will, however, usually be found that the pain is super- ficial and is not excited on jarring the articular ends together. One of the marked symptoms of the hysterical condition is hypereesthesia of the skin and structures around the joint. The general condition of the patient also frequently denotes the presence of hysteria. Another great characteristic of these affections is very marked con- tracture of the muscles around the articulation, so that the limb is usually flexed and attempts to extend it cause great pain. Notwithstanding this, it will generally be found that there is no thickening of and no marked changes in the joint. These contractures usually disappear com- pletely under an anaesthetic, and do not return until the patient comes round again. Hence, one of the most important points in the diagnosis, and also an important element in the treatment, is the examination of the joint under an anEesthetic. At.^a later stage, however, when the disease has lasted for a con- siderable time, actual organic contractions of the muscles may occur, or adhesions may form in the peri-articular tissues and interfere with the