109 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. must necessarily be removed, and there is therefore considerable subsequent restriction of movement; in fact, under these circumstances, it is hardly possible to hope for complete restoration of function in the joint afterwards. Where only one joint is affected this is not necessarily a matter of very great importance, but should a number of joints be attacked, it is of course a most serious undertaking to dissect away the synovial membrane in each. At the same time it must be remembered that the condition completely cripples the patient, and that a painless though somewhat stiff joint is preferable to one so painful that the patient cannot use it. When, however, the fringes are very numerous, it would seem worth while to make an attempt in the first instance to cause them to adhere, before proceeding to operate for their removal. This may to some extent be done by setting up a subacute synovitis in the joint, and we have therefore in one or two instances washed the articulation out with a 1-2000 sublimate solution, without irrigating it afterwards with sterilised water as recommended for chronic synovitis (see p. 103). This has been done in order to produce a considerable amount of fibrinous effusion which will lead to adhesions and thus fasten the papillae to the surface of the synovial membrane, so that they no longer float about in the joint cavity and irritate the synovial membrane, or get caught between the articular ends. This method has led to considerable improvement in the cases in which we have employed it. No constitutional remedies are of any value. The treatment therefore that we should advise is, whenever the affec- tion seems limited to one part of the synovial membrane, to open the joint freely with full antiseptic precautions, and to clip away the enlarged papillae as completely as possible. This gives rise to considerable oozing into the joint, which, however, will stop partly from mere exposure to the air and partly by irrigating the joint with hot sublimate solution (1-8000). When, however, the affection is extensive, and particularly when more than one joint is attacked, we would advise that the joint be laid freely open, the enlarged papillae clipped away, and the joint filled up with a 1-2000 subUmate solution. A large drainage tube is inserted, the remainder of the incision in the capsule is stitched up, and the usual antiseptic dress- ings are applied, the limb being put on a suitable splint. The drainage tube may be left out at the end of ten days and the wound allowed to heal; when this has happened, passive movement is begun in order to avoid excessive adhesions in the joint. (b) Of the substance of the synovial membrane.—These are chiefly cases in which synovitis has been prolonged, and the best example is seen in the knee, where, as the result of some injury, a thickening, most prominent about the fatty pad beneath the ligamentum patellaa, per- sists. In some cases, no doubt, a certain amount of thickening of the whole of the synovial membrane may be present, but it is very rare to find a thickening of the entire synovial membrane which is not of a