2IO THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. the reflection of the synovial membrane is reached, and downwards as far as the margin of the patella; it should also be continued inwards and outwards from the lateral incisions so as to clear the supra-patellar pouch on each side; finally the structures are separated downwards over the condyles as far as possible, and also behind the ligamentum patellae. In this way the whole anterior part of the synovial membrane is separated from the capsule. The supra-patellar pouch of synovial membrane is pulled down and its posterior surface separated from the femur; this is best done with the finger. The separation is carried down to the point of attachment of the synovial membrane to the articular cartilage. The soft parts are now well retracted and the synovial membrane is cut through with scissors, first at its attachment, all round the articular surface of the patella ; this allows the finger to be introduced into the joint, and further facilitates the pulling downwards of the supra-patellar pouch and its separation from the front of the femur. When this has been done, the membrane is detached from the articular surface of the femur all round as far as can be reached, and from the head of the tibia below. The division is carried as far backwards as possible on either side beneath the lateral ■ ligaments, and then the whole of the anterior portion of the synovial membrane can be lifted out. The line of attachment of the synovial membrane to the patella, the femur and the tibia, should have a slice of cartilage shaved off with the knife, so as to insure the whole of the synovial membrane being removed. The next step is to wash out the joint with a 1-8000 sublimate solution. This removes all flakes of tuberculous material before dividing the patella and so avoids infection of the cut surface of the bone. When this has been done, the transverse incision over the patella is deepened and the bone sawn across, when the cut surfaces are immediately covered with a piece of gauze soaking in a 1-2000 sublimate solution, and the two flaps thus made are thrown upwards and downwards. Each half of the cartilage covering the patella is carefully examined and, if it shows any appearance of being affected, a thin layer is shaved off. The knee is now fully flexed, and the semilunar cartilages are removed with the knife, all the synovial membrane around the articular edges being most carefully pared away. The condition of the crucial ligaments and the structures in the intercondyloid notch is then examined. At this stage of the disease it will generally be found that the ligaments are intact^ although they are often covered with pulpy synovial membrane, which can not infrequently be stripped oft" without detaching them. Great care must be taken to remove every portion of synovial membrane from the intercondyloid notch. The synovial membrane at the side of the joint should next be attacked, and in most cases it will be necessary to divide the lateral liga- ments, after having effected separation between them and the synovial