DISEASES OF THE HIP JOINT. vides excellent drainage. The patient is rolled over on to the sound side, the thigh is semiflexed and rotated a little inwards, and an incision is made commencing about an inch and a half above the centre of the top of the trochanter and passing downwards and forwards, until it reaches the junc- tion of the base of the trochanter and the shaft of the bone (see Fig. 50). As this is deepened, the glutei muscles are cut through in the line of their Fig. 50.—Excision of the Hih uv a Posterior Incision. The patient lies upon the sound side with the affected joint flexed and rotated inwards. fibres and the posterior surface of the neck of the bone is easily exposed by dividing the muscles attached to the great trochanter. The saw is now applied to the bone just above the trochanter and the head and neck removed. By this operation the whole of the interior of the joint is very freely exposed and can be accurately examined. The thorough removal of the disease is perhaps more easy by this method than by any other. It is, however, open to the serious objection that the glutei are considerably damaged and the functional result is therefore not likely to be-so good; it gives, however, excellent drainage and should be employed by "prefer- ence in cases where numerous septic sinuses are present. These sinuses should be dissected out or scraped, and undiluted carbolic acid applied to them; finally the whole wou-nd should be thoroughly sponged with the same substance before the sutures are introduced. When there is widespread sepsis and a number of sinuses, it is well to leave the wound open and to pack it with cyanide gauze impregnated with iodoform until granulation has far advanced. The packing should be renewed daily for about three weeks, after which time the wound may generally be allowed to close. When excision is employed in the fourth stage of the disease (see p. 184), where the disease has been cured and the operation is only done for the deformity, mere removal of the head of the bone is all that is necessary; the removal of the capsule is not called for as the disease has disappeared. The object of the operation in these cases is simply to get rid of the head of the bone so as to obtain a movable joint. Here the anterior incision is the best, and after.the neck is sawn through, the