DISEASES OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. also be carefully attended to. The axillary pad and the wrist-sling should be continued for six or eight weeks. jResu/ts.—The results of the operation are very satisfactory on the whole ; all the arm movements, with the exception of a certain amount of rotation, may be readily performed, but it is seldom that abduction can be carried as far as, and certainly not beyond, a right angle. If however the patient can abduct the limb nearly to a right angle he is generally very well satisfied. RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS. r The shoulder joint is frequently affected by this disease, when, as in the hip, the affection is often mon-articular, or at the most only affects two or three joints. The affection in the shoulder is often spoken of as malum senile, just as in the case of the hip joint affection. In the shoulder the disease is marked by extremely severe pain, which occurs quite in the early stages and is generally accompanied by very marked limitation of movement, the arm being kept to the side and only abducted and rotated with great pain and difficulty. Associated with this is rapid atrophy of the deltoid, so that the head of the humerus can easily be felt, and the osteophytes, which are very common in this situation, can be made out. The tendon of the biceps is also apt to be affected and indeed may be actually destroyed; short of this, its sheath is occupied by villous masses which correspond in all respects to the villous condition of the synovial membrane of joints and interferes with the movements of the tendon. Treatment.—The treatment must be carried out on the same lines as for the disease elsewhere (see p. 149); the only point that we need deal with here is the question of excision. As a means of relieving the pain there is no doubt that excision has great advantages, and therefore, if the patient be in good condition, and if the pain be intolerable, it may be justifiable for that reason. In the way of a functional result, too much, however, must not be expected. The movement of the limb afterwards is very imperfect, partly on account of the atrophy of the deltoid which accom- panies the disease, and partly on account of the limitation of movement which follows all excisions of this joint. In connection with this it must be remembered that the atrophy of the deltoid spoken of above is hardly ever recovered from, and therefore the functional result in any case is not likely to be good. It is, however, quite justifiable to excise the joint for the relief of the excessive pain, and in doing so it is advisable to confine the removal of bone to the head, leaving the greater part of the tuberosities untouched. This can usually be done by means of a chisel without dividing the otator muscles of the shoulder more than partially. If at the same time the surface of the glenoid cavity be removed, and after the operation the arm be kept at rest, with the elbow well away from the side and fixed by a wedge-shaped pad" in the axilla, anchylosis by firm fibrous or