142 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. appearance of the joint. Along with these atrophic changes there is sometimes a tendency to hyperplasia, and new bony outgrowths are met with at the articular edges of the bones, or masses of bone are deposited in the capsule. The relative amount of these changes is influenced largely by the joint affected; in the hip and shoulder, for example, the changes are essentially atrophic, and there is but slight formation of new bone; in the knee and the elbow, on the other hand, and more particularly in the latter, the atrophic changes, which at first are as marked as in the former cases, are followed later by a considerable hyperplasia, and a large amount of new bone may be formed and may help to fix the articulation. Symptoms.—The most marked characteristics of Charcot's joint disease are the rapidity with which the changes occur—so that the joint may be entirely disorganised within a few days—and the extraordinary painlessness of the whole process. The first symptom is usually sudden swelling of the joint, to which the patient's attention is called by finding that the joint is somewhat stiff. The swelling is mainly due to synovial effusion, but there may also be considerable oedema of the structures around; some- times the synovial membrane is so distended that it gives way and the fluid diffuses outside the joint. In a few weeks the effusion begins to disappear, but considerable enlargement of the articulation usually remains. Very soon after the onset of the disease, examination shows that the ends of the bones have undergone the most remarkable alterations. There is coarse, bony grating on moving the joint, while the normal outlines of the bones are quite lost. The ligaments undergo destruction to such an extent that a flail joint results, and the limb can be moved freely in abnormal directions, whilst it is often possible to produce dislocation and to reduce it quite easily; all this causes no pain. When the patient has been bearing weight upon the limb, the greatest destruction of bone will be found at the points of greatest pressure. In the cases accompanied by a tendency to hyperplasia, bony outgrowths will be found after a short time springing from the edges of the articular surfaces and imbedded in the capsule; if this process be extensive, sufficient fixation of the joint may occur after the lapse of some time to enable the patient to bear weight upon the limb. Complications.—The most important is septic infeciion. It is not uncommon for the capsule to give way, and after a time the skin also, so that there is a sinus leading into the joint, and suppuration may result. It is, however, a remarkable fact that in a considerable number of cases in which no antiseptic precautions have been adopted, suppuration either does not occur, or, when it does, is only very slight, and is not marked by constitutional or local symptoms. Sometimes, however, the reverse is the case and acute arthritis is set up. A joint that is the seat of Charcot's disease may become affected