CHAPTER III. DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. This accident usually occurs in adults, and is only rarely met with either in early childhood or in old age. After escaping from the capsule, the head of the bone may pass forwards, backwards, or downwards, the particular form of the dislocation being determined mainly by the direction of the force and the position of the arm at the time of the injury. The primary displacement may also be modified subsequently by muscular action or by further violence; this especially applies to the downward dis- location. The violence which generally produces the injury is a fall or blow upon the hand or the elbow, with the arm abducted and slightly rotated outwards. The result is that the greater tuberosity of the humerus comes into contact with the posterior edge of the glenoid cavity of the scapula, and thus the head of the bone is thrust violently against the anterior inferior part of the capsule; this gives way, and the head of the bone passes downwards below the glenoid cavity. VARIETIES.—In all the forms of dislocation the primary displace- ment is sub-glenoid. As the head of the bone passes downwards it comes into contact with the anterior edge of the long head of the triceps, and, unless the direction of the force be such as to drive the head backwards, the result of contact with this structure is displacement forwards; in its progress in this direction the head comes to lie below the coracoid process —the so-called sub-coracoid dislocation—which is much the most common of the dislocations of the shoulder. When the violence is more extreme, the head of the bone may be thrust beyond the coracoid process until it lies beneath the clavicle—this form is spoken of as sub-clavicular dislocation. Still more rarely the head of the bone travels backwards; this is the result either of a fall with the hands fully outstretched, or of direct violence applied to the front of the shoulder. Here also the lower part of the capsule is torn, but generally somewhat more posteriorly than in the former instance, and the head is carried back and lodges in the infraspinous fossa—this is spoken of as a sub-spinous dislocation.