58 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. head of the bone from the brim of the pelvis. The thyroid dislocation is then reduced in the ordinary manner. TREATMENT OF THE IRREGULAR FORMS OF DISLOCATION. In these forms manipulation is of no avail because the Y-ligament is torn and there is therefore no fixed point around which the head of the bone can be made to rotate. Traction is the only procedure that is of use, and it should be employed in the downward and forward direction with the thigh somewhat flexed; while this is being carried out, the surgeon should alternately rotate the limb inwards or outwards, and at the same time adduct or abduct it, according to the position that the head of the bone occupies with regard to the acetabulum ; this will generally succeed in reducing the dislocation. When the '^-ligament only has been torn, there is usually no difficulty in retaining the head of the bone in position after reduction, but it is expedient to keep the joint at rest for some weeks before the patient is allowed to stand, so as to facilitate the repair of this structure. The best splint to employ is a long Liston (see Part III., p. in), but this must be taken off once or twice a day for passive movement designed to prevent adhesions. When the margin of the acetabulum has been broken off, the after-treat- ment is much more difficult, as there is a constant tendency to recurrence of the displacement. It is imperative, therefore, to keep up extension,— which is best done by weight and pulley (see Part III., p. 23),—until union of the fractured surfaces is complete. In the meanwhile careful passive movement must be carried out at intervals by the surgeon. TREATMENT OF UNREDUCED DISLOCATION. When a dislocation of the hip has remained unreduced for a short time, marked changes take place in the joint. The head of the femur becomes broader than normal, whilst the acetabulum becomes shallower and may be completely filled up with fibrous tissue, which in parts may undergo ossification. The ruptured capsule also becomes shortened and adherent, so that after the lapse of a few weeks, reduction of the dislocation, either by manipulation or by traction, is a matter of absolute impossibility. As a rule, if more than six weeks have elapsed from the time of the accident, it is hardly possible to reduce the dislocation, and operative measures will therefore be necessary. Operative Measures.—Immediately prior to operating for the relief of unreduced dislocation, the limb should be freely moved in all directions. All movements should be carried to their fullest limit, and extension by pulleys should also be had recourse to, so as to break up as fully as possible any adhesions that may have formed.