197 DISEASES OF THE KNEE JOINT. starch and cotton wool bandage (see p. 120), and later without any apparatus at all. The common mistake made in treating acute synovitis of the knee is to keep the limb too long upon a spHnt. It is not at all unusual to find the limb kept up for six or eight weeks without any attempt at passive movement, and this allows the formation of firm fibrous adhesions which must be broken down under an antesthetic before the joint can be freely moved. The reason that the limb is confined for so long is that the patient often suffers pain on attempting movement and so the Hmb is kept up to allow this to disappear; this pain is really due to a stretching of the young adhesions, and quickly passes off as they are stretched or torn through. Hence the mere occurrence of pain should not deter the surgeon from employing early passive movement, the chief symptom that must be regarded as an indication for relaxation of vigorous treatment being recurrence of the effusion. When the limb has been kept stiff for too long and adhesions have formed, massage and passive movement may be tried for a short time, but as a rule these are not very effectual in the knee and it will be necessary to break the adhesions down forcibly. In doing this the rules recommended for the treatment of adhesions (see p. 162) should be strictly followed, and no attempt should be made to break down the whole of the adhesions at the first sitting; unless the procedure be very gradual, considerable pain and recurrence of the effusion will be caused, and time is actually saved by proceeding slowly. The treatment of the case at this stage is in fact that suitable for anchylosis, and the directions already given for that condition should be followed. CHRONIC SYNOVITIS. This condition is of very frequent occurrence and may either follow an injury or may appear without any obvious cause. Sometimes the effusion is extreme, when the case is spoken of as "hydrops articuli," the capsule being enormously distended with fluid and constituting a very serious condition, not only on account of the disability of the limb, but because of the liability to deformity from stretching of the ligaments. The particular deformity most likely to occur is either a lateral divergence or an external rotation of the leg upon the thigh. TREATMENT.—What has already been said relative to the treat- ment of chronic synovitis in general applies closely to that condition in the knee (see p. 105); indeed what has been said in that connection is meant to apply mainly to the knee, and we need not therefore go into the matter here.