Il8 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. out the muscles and prevent them from pressing the inflamed surfaces together, only a very moderate weight is required to effect this, and the objections therefore fall to the ground. When the case is one of pure synovial disease without marked rigidity of the muscles, there is no object in employing extension unless there be deformity; in fact, extension would almost certainly do harm by stretching the inflamed ligaments, and would thus keep up the chronic inflammation. On the other hand, when the bone surfaces have become affected, great and immediate relief usually follows the employment of a moderate degree of extension; the pain ceases, and the nocturnal startings, which are the most distressing symptoms of this condition, are overcome. It must, however, be remembered that an amount of extension which at first is necessary to relieve the patient's pain may, if it be continued after the tonic contraction of the muscles has been overcome, cause a recurrence of the pain from stretching of the diseased ligaments. It is not at all uncommon to find that, while a weight of about five pounds will at first relieve the pain in a case of joint disease , in an adult, the pain will recur after a week or two as a result of the stretching of the inflamed ligaments after the muscular contraction has been overcome. A mistake commonly made in these cases is to think that the recurrence of pain implies that the contraction of the muscles has overcome the weight, and that the latter must be increased accordingly. It implies, on the contrary, that the con- traction has been overcome, and that the weight is too great and should be diminished. That this is so is borne out by the fact that the recurrent pain is not accompanied by starting pains at night. It is therefore most important to watch the results of all cases in which extension is employed, and to reduce the weight as soon as it is evident that the muscular resistance has been overcome. Counter-irritation.—Benefit is also derived in many cases from the employment of other measures which are of value in chronic inflammation unaccompanied by tuberculosis. Among these, one of the most important is counter-irritation, which, although a favourite remedy in chronic inflam- mation and formerly also in tuberculous joint disease, has been very much given up in the latter because it naturally could have no specific action against the tubercle bacillus itself. Its true therapeutic effect in diminish- ing the chronic inflammation has been much overlooked. The forms of counter-irritation which are of most value in these cases are blisters and the actual cautery. In pure synovial disease improvement sometimes follows the application of a succession of blisters, applied over or around the articulation, a fresh blister being applied as soon as the raw surface produced by its predecessor has healed. When, however, the bone is inflamed, and more particularly when the joint is deep seated, a much more effectual method is the application of the actual cautery. The most striking results are obtained from it in cases of hip and shoulder-joint disease, and in spinal caries. It does not seem to be of any particular