DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW. 41 of lifting children by the hands. A severe strain is thus thrown upon the orbicular ligament, which ruptures, and allows the head of the bone to escape upwards in front of the outer condyle of the humerus. The accident may also be caused by a direct blow upon the upper end of the radius, such as would occur in falls upon the outer side and back of the elbow. The dislocation renders flexion beyond a right angle mechanically impossible on account of the apposition of the head of the radius to the front of the articular surface of the humerus. The fore-arm is usually in a position midway between pronation and supination. Treatment.—There is often much difficulty in replacing the head of the bone, owing to the obstacle offered by the orbicular ligament, which not uncontmonly falls into and fills up the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna. Moreover, the head of the bone is very apt to slip out of place again after successful reduction, owing to the pull of the biceps. It is well to employ a general anfesthetic in attempting reduction, because it may be necessary to employ manipulations for a considerable time in order to get the remains of the orbicular ligament out of the lesser sigmoid cavity, and because more nicety of manipulation is required than is possible without the aid of an anjesthetic. The elbow is bent to a right angle and traction is made upon the fore-arm, whilst the head of the radius is pressed backwards into position with the thumb of the hand that fixes the arm. The head of the bone is usually quite easily got nearly into place, but the reduction must not be looked upon as satisfactory unless the surgeon finds that the .bone remains in position with the aid of only very slight pressure from the thumb, and that pronation and supination are perfectly free. If the divided ends of the orbicular ligament curl up between the head of the radius and the ulna, these movements will be hampered, and the head of the bone will betray a constant tendency to slip out of position, particularly when full pronation is performed. After-treatment.—When the surgeon is satisfied that reduction is complete, the elbow should be put up at right angles upon a posterior rectangular splint with the fore-arm in the position of full supination, and a moulded anterior splint of guttapercha or poroplastic material with a pad between it and the front of the head of the radius should be employed to press the latter back (see Fig. 14). Care must be taken to prevent the arm from being used too early, .lest dislocation should recur; at the same time it is important to begin passive movements at latest within a week from the time of the accident, as otherwise extensive adhesions may form. The movements should always be carried out by the surgeon himself, and should be chiefly directed to maintaining the power of rotation. \^'hile they are being done, displacement of the head of the radius should be guarded against by pressure applied over it by the thumb. These passive move- ments should be repeated once or twice daily, and in the intervals the splint and pad are re-applied and should be kept on for tiie first three weeks ;