TUBERCULOSIS. should there be a number of abscesses present, and should the patient be in bad general health, excision of the joint, witli as complete a removal of all the diseased structures as possible, is preferable to merely treating the abscess and leaving the primary disease alone. In the more superficial joints, on the other hand, such as the knee, where it is possible to dissect out the abscess, it is usually best to go on at once to the more radical operation. In most of these joints the functional result after arthrectomy or excision is as good as, or indeed better than can be obtained by expectant treatment, and the length of time required, and consequently the risk of serious complications is very much diminished by the more thorough method. An additional argument in favour of a radical operation under, these circumstances is that the formation of an abscess in connection with a tuberculous joint indicates that there is a strong tendency to breaking down of the tuber- culous tissue, and that in all probability similar caseatirig processes are going on elsewhere, and therefore the chances of recovery by natural means are correspondingly less. The rules already laid down (see p. 125) as a guide to the choice of a radical operation apply here as elsewhere, but perhaps amputation will be more frequently called for than in the other types of the disease, as it is not uncommon to meet with a number of abscesses about the joint, with pus burrowing in various directions ; for this condition the only operation that affords a really good chance is amputation. To excise the joint or to perform arthrectomy without removing the abscesses completely would of course be futile, because the cut surfaces would become infected afresh. But the length of time required for the removal of extensive and numerous abscesses will be so great as to jeopardise the patient's life from shock or loss of blood; hence amputation is more frequently indicated. 7. Cases complicated by septic sinuses.—Here, as a rule, operation is called for. In 3'oung children in whom there is no actual sequestrum or bony deposit, healing may however occur, even though septic sinuses be present, if the limb be thoroughly fixed and free drainage provided. In children this should therefore be done unless there be some reason to the contrary. The limb should be properly immobilised, free drainage provided by opening up the sinuses as far as may be necessary, and the child should then be placed under the best hygienic conditions. The treatment of septic sinuses in connection with the tuberculous process has already been referred to (see Part III., p. 201). Should it be found, however, after a reasonable time, that the sinuses show no tendency to heal, and should the discharge from them be free, one of the radical operations must be considered. This will be more called for in adults, especially in old people, in whom there is very little likelihood of the sinuses healing. At first sight it would seem that arthrectomy is out of the question