I30 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. give full access to the affected region. After the bone has been exposed, the periosteum is detached, and then the dense outer shell of the bone is cut away with a gouge over the affected area. When this has been done, the cancellous tissue can usually be readily scraped out with a sharp spoon or one of Barker's flushing gouges, and should be removed until the deposit is reached. Tuberculous tissue is generally easily recognised by the presence of cheesy material; in most soft deposits of any size caseation occurs fairly early. In other cases it is possible to recognise it by its semi-gelatinous character and by the absence of bone trabeculse. A sequestrum is recognised by the dense, yellow, hard, bony mass in the substance of the cancellous tissue. When the deposit has been entirely scraped out, a piece of sponge should be packed firmly into the cavity in the bone and kept there until the oozing is arrested. Another small piece of sponge is now dipped in undiluted carbolic acid and, while the edges of the wound in the soft parts are held widely open, the larger piece of sponge is removed and the smaller one is substituted for it. As this application is immediately followed by some oozing which tends to dilute the acid, the procedure should be repeated two or three times, a fresh piece of sponge being introduced to soak up the discharge, and immediately after its removal another dipped in pure carbolic acid being inserted. The cavity in the bone should next be washed out with a 1-2000 sublimate solution, and then some of the 10 per cent, iodoform and glycerine emulsion (see p. 120) is introduced and the wound stitched up without a drainage tube. Should the operation have been successful, the wound heals by first intention and the cavity in the bone gradually fills up with fibrous tissue which ultimately undergoes ossification, and the disease is thus eradicated. In order to favour organisation of the clot which forms in the bone cavity after stitching up the wound, the limb should be kept on a splint for several weeks. Unless this be done, the blood-clot will run the risk of being broken up by the movements, and a quantity of serum will have to be let out: this will of course interfere with the rapid fiUing up of the cavity. In some cases the presence of a tuberculous deposit may be suspected in bones that are not readily accessible and where therefore there is no question of immediate operation. In these cases complete rest should be insisted upon, together with the application of splints. It is well also to employ counter-irritation by the actual cautery over a considerable area in front of or behind the joint. Full details as to its application and the after-treatment have already been given (see p. 119). In a certain number of cases the cautery seems to arrest the disease; it probably does so by causing a subsidence of the inflammation around the deposit in the bone, which finally becomes encapsuled. 2. Cases of localised deposits in the synovial membrane.—^This is also