302 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE. The next step, that of dissecting out the nerves and returning them into the spinal canal, may be quite easy or it may be a matter of great difficulty. When the nerves simply pass across the cavity of the sac on their road to the intervertebral foramina there is no particular difficulty in isolating them ; when however they are intimately adherent to the sac wall, which itself is thin and membranous, or when the cord is flattened out and adherent to the sac, the difficulties are very great, and considerable time may be required for the operation. The various structures must be most carefully identified and separated, and, if the nerves cannot be dissected quite free from the sac wall, the latter must be left adherent and returned with the nerves into the canal. The subsequent steps of the operation are similar to those just described. It is particularly in these cases that the difficulty in bringing the skin-flaps together at the end of the operation that has just been alluded to is most likely to be met with. 3. Cases complicated by ulceration of the sac ivall.—This is a compli- cation of the very gravest nature; on the one hand, it demands early operation, as otherwise rupture of the sac and fatal septic meningitis are certain, while, on the other hand, it minimises the surgeon's chance of obtaining a good result owing to the difficulty of securing asepsis. In all cases in which nerve elements are present in the sac and are adherent to the wall beneath the area of ulceration the matter is quite hopeless, because the ulcerated surface must be removed and the chances of carrying infec- tion inwards are enormous. If the imminence of perforation of the sac demands that something must be done, it will be best to have recourse to Morton's injections (see p 297). When matters are not so hopeless and operation is called for, disin- fection of the ulcerated surface must be effected with undiluted carbolic acid, which should be thoroughly rubbed into the whole of the ulcerating surface, while the skin around is disinfected in the usual manner. The elliptical incision must of course go quite wide of the septic area, and if there be difficulty in getting the skin to meet afterwards—as usually happens—the skin around may be undermined or flaps may be made to enable the edges to come together without any great tension (^ide supra). Treatment suitable for the individual forms.—A few words may be said as to the applicability of these methods to the varieties of the affection already mentioned : I. Meningocele.—As there are no nerve elements in the !?ac and the tumour is generally covered by sound skin, this is the most favourable condition. When the opening into the spinal canal is small, Morton's injections are best; when it is large, the operation should be delayed as long as is consistent with safety, the child wearing a shield in the meantime. If, as the child grows, the tumour tends to enlarge, excision and an attempt at osteoplastic repair should be employed. 2. Meningo-myelocele and syringo-inyelocele.—Should the skin be sound all over the tumour, excision, with isolation and return of the nerve elements