320 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE. easy to understand, and some of them will be found suitable for any case for which exercises are required. These exercises should always be carried out in the presence of someone whose business it is to see that they are properly and regularly performed for the requisite length of time. The simplest plan is for the surgeon who has charge of the case to supervise the first performance of each group of exercises as they are taught, and to point out to the gymnasium master or the parents the exact manner in which they are to be done. It is well to teach a fresh set of exercises at each sitting or each alternate one, so as to stimulate the patient's interest as much as possible; and when the whole series has been learnt, the performance should be judiciously varied. It will be seen that the exercises are so planned that they are carried out first in the horizontal position, then in the sitting, and finally in the standing posture, as the muscular strength improves. An important point in the exercises is that many of them are performed against resistance, the surgeon, or in his absence some form of elastic band, opposing the action of the muscles. After the exercises are over, the patient should lie recumbent upon a couch, preferably in the prone position, for at least half an hour. The period for which the exercises are performed may be gradually increased, if it is thought that they are doing good and that no undue fatigue is produced. After the simple exercises designed to improve the muscular system generally have been thoroughly learnt and properly practised, the surgeon makes a careful examination to ascertain what effect has been produced upon the curvature. This will generally be at the end of a month or six weeks from the commencement of the treatment. Should it be found, as it prob- ably will in early cases, that the curvature has almost disappeared, and that the patient can hold himself erect without any trouble, little else is needed beyond a continuance of the treatment already adopted. Should it, however, be found that the curvature is still present, special exercises (see Appendix) will be needed with the object of undoing the curve. It is impossible to specify the various exercises appropriate for the particular conditions that may be met with. The surgeon must select these from the list given, according to the physical conditions present. Thus one set of exercises will be required for unfolding a dorsal curve, another for a lumbar curve, whilst an entirely different set of exercises are necessary for the cure of the rotation. These exercises are first performed as directed in the Appendix, and, as the patient becomes accustomed to them and can perform them without fatigue, it is most useful to have them performed against resist- ance, the simplest method of doing which is to instruct the attendant to oppose the movements which the patient is endeavouring to carry out. This may be done gently at first, and with gradually increasing force as the muscles grow stronger. There are several forms of mechanical apparatus which are designed for the purpose of carrying out movements against resistance. Of these, Dowd's machine (see Fig. 82) is a useful type,