THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 114 2. Localised tuberculous deposits in the synovial membrane of the pedunculated variety. 3. Cases of empyema tuberculosum and hydrops tuberculosus. 4. Cases in which the tuberculous deposit has burst into the joint and has produced sudden violent infection of it. 5. Cases of general thickening of the synovial membrane without any marked bone disease. 6. Cases in which there are unopened abscesses around the joint. 7. Cases in which these abscesses have burst and have left sinuses. 8. Tuberculous disease accompanied by anchylosis and deformity, with or without sinuses. In connection with the treatment of tuberculous joint disease it is necessary in all cases to ascertain whether there is tuberculosis elsewhere,. e.g. in the lungs, glands, abdomen, etc. Before referring to the treat- ment of the types of disease enumerated above, it will save repetition to give briefly a description of the methods of treatment applicable to tuberculous diseased of joints in general. (a) GENERAL TREATMENT.—There are certain points of great importance in the general treatment of those who are the subjects of tuberculous joint disease. In the first place, the patient should be placed under the best possible hygienic conditions. He should have plenty of fresh air, and whenever possible should be sent into the country, the particular locale depending largely upon the idiosyncrasies of the individual. It is too much the rule to send these patients at once to the seaside, for it must be remembered that some are much better in a dry inland spot than at the seaside; before deciding where the patient is to go it is essential to ascertain if possible from which of these localities he is likely to derive most benefit. Again, some do better in a warm climate,, whilst others suffer from the heat and prefer a cooler resort. Climatic.—For those who are best suited by the seaside in a cool and bracing climate, any of the ordinary English watering-places on the East Coast from Deal to Cromer, or on the Yorkshire coast, may be re- commended. As a rule, patients are sent to Margate, but there is no particular virtue in that spot over many other places upon the East Coast. For patients who do well at the seaside, but who require a warmer climate, there are various suitable resorts on the South Coast from Folkestone to Bournemouth. For those who do best in an inland bracing atmosphere, tlie Yorkshire moors are excellent, whilst for others, who require a somewhat warmer climate, Devonshire seems to be the most suitable. In the country, the patient should be kept out of doors as much as possible, and measures must be taken to prevent movement of or pressure upon the affected joint. The amount of out-door exercise, and the form which it takes, must therefore practically entirely depend upon the joint affected ; when the mischief is in the lo\yer extremity, it is always best in the early stages to keep the patient recumbent on a couch, upon which