286 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE. cases to turn the patient over or to raise liim, so as to find deformity or other symptoms of fracture, because displacement is very readily thus produced and might immensely aggravate the damage already present. The symptoms of fracture of the spine are always sufficiently clear to render such a course as unnecessary as it is dangerous. Removal.—It sometimes falls to the lot of the surgeon to be called to a case of fractured spine while the patient is still lying on the spot at which he received the injury; he then becomes responsible for the patient's removal, which must be done with the utmost care and with the aid of intelligent assistants. The patient should be laid flat upon the ground or floor, without anything beneath his head, and all attempts at move- ment must be restrained until a suitable stretcher or litter is ready for him. This should be firm and unyielding, a shutter or door being as useful as anything if a regular stretcher cannot be found; indeed in any case it is a good plan to slip a narrow shutter or a wide plank of suitable length beneath the patient and to lift him on to the stretcher on this. A board of this kind can be readily slipped between the patient and the floor without raising him more than an inch or so, and it prevents him from sinking down in the stretcher and thus increasing the deformity. In raising the patient it is very important to remember that a certain amount of extension should be made. At least four assistants are required, two of whom take the lower extremities while the other two grasp the thorax in cases of fracture of the dorso-lumbar region or the head in fractures higher up; in the latter case two more are required to support the trunk. As the patient is raised from the ground the assistants make extension. The surgeon at the same time places his hand beneath the spine and tries to keep it as horizontal as possible. The board or sliutter is then rapidly slipped beneath the patient immediately there is room for it, and upon this he can be lifted and carried home; or the entire apparatus may be placed upon a stretcher. It is well if possible to encircle the patient and the stretcher in a sheet, or to bandage the arms to the sides so as to prevent all movement. The stretcher should in all cases be carried by hand so as to prevent the jolting which wheeled carriages entail, and, as is well known, the stretcher bearers at the two ends should not walk in step. When the patient reaches his home or the hospital he should not be disturbed until every preparation has been made for securing permanent immobilisation. He may be temporarily left upon the stretcher, hot-water bottles and hot blankets being piled around him, and stimulants administered if necessary to lessen the shock while preparations are being made to reduce and immobilise the fracture. The initial shock, although sometimes severe, is in the majority of cases surprisingly slight. It must be remembered that, as the lower extremities are anaesthetic, extra care must be taken that the hot bottles do not come into contact with the skin, as otherwise extensive and intractible burns are certain to result; the bottles should be applied outside the blanket.