267 DISEASES OF THE WRIST AND HAND. CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. There is a form of chronic inflammation of the wrist in young people which leads to marked deformity and which is not generally recognised. No marked destructive changes take place in the joint, and the affection is often overlooked entirely until the onset of a sub-luxation of the carpus, which is pulled forwards on the radio-ulnar arch. If this condition last for any length of time, the articular surfaces become altered so that the radio-ulnar surface becomes oblique and the carpus cannot be got back into its normal position. This affection is frequently associated with certain trades, and is often met with in washerwomen and those who have much manual labour and in whom the wrist is carried beyond its normal range of movement. In other cases the affection occurs chiefly in the radio-ulnar joint, the liga- ments becoming relaxed and the styloid process of the ulna projecting markedly backwards, while the carpus projects somewhat forwards on the ulnar side. This is particularly the case in boxers, cricketers, and tennis players. The result of this condition is pain about the ulnar side of the wrist, which is relieved for a time by rest and is finally associated with a marked prominence of the ulnar styloid process. If the causes producing the affec- tion continue, there may be actual arrest of growth in the lower end of the ulna or even wasting and permanent disability of the joint. Treatment.—In the early stages of the disease the causes producing it should be removed and an attempt made to prevent further strain on the weak parts by proper fixation of the joint. The patient will often state that the pain is relieved by applying a firm bandage around the wrist, and many sufferers from this condition, when they wish to follow the occupation which induces the pain, find great relief from wearing a leather or elastic wristlet so as to control its movements. In most cases, change of occupa- tion, together with the use of a wristlet, is all that is necessary; the latter should be continued for many months. TUBERCULOUS DISEASE. This wrist, like the shoulder, is chiefly affected by tuberculous disease in adult life. As is the case with the shoulder, disease of this joint is not of very common occurrence and is frequently accompanied by phthisis. The disease may begin either primarily in the synovial membrane or as a deposit in one of the bones; probably it is more often primary in the synovial membrane. When it commences in the bone, the deposit is generally in the lower end of the radius or in the base of one of the metacarpal bones, generally the second. In the early stage of the disease there is considerable swelling over the back of the hand, and from quite an early period there is marked lateral