THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. substituted for it. It is well to substitute a fresh tube every few days, as granulation tissue grows through the holes in it and blocks its lumen unless fresh tubes be used; in the fresh tube the holes will be in a different position, and the difficulty is thus easily avoided. In a certain number of cases, but unfortunately in only a few, the sinuses may heal and the disease may be cured when the patient is under good hygienic conditions and carefully treated; but when there are a number of sinuses, and when sepsis is marked, the attempt as a rule ends in failure, and it will be necessary to excise the joint. In other cases where the disease is evidently active, and it is obvious that the patient cannot be placed under good hygienic conditions, it is well to excise the joint at once. Before proceeding to excision, the sinuses should be thoroughly scraped out and sponged with pure carbolic acid, so as to render the wound as aseptic as possible before the excision is performed. After excision the cavity left should also be thoroughly sponged out with undiluted carbolic acid (for the operation of excision, see p. 187). 4. Of the fourth stage.—In this we include those cases in which recovery has either taken place or is progressing satisfactorily, but where the limb is in bad position; the aim of the treatment is therefore mainly to remedy the deformity. The usual deformities met with are flexion, adduction and rotation inwards. When flexion is marked, the patient is either unable to put the foot to the ground, or can only do so by producing very extreme lordosis. When the adduction is marked, it is necessary to tilt the pelvis before the leg can be brought parallel with its fellow, and this produces marked scoliosis, whilst the practical shortening of the limb is greatly increased. For these reasons it is necessary to do something to remedy the deformities. In the cases where there is still a certain amount of movement in the joint, the deformity may be overcome by dividing any contracted bands or tendons, particularly the adductors, and by the very careful employment of a certain amount of force to stretch the adhesions, and then finally following this up by extension, employed as directed on p. 177, until the limb is in the position of abduction with the rotation and flexion corrected. The reason for preferring the abducted position has already been given (see p. 178). A certain amount of scoliosis must, of course, result from this abducted position, but, if the patient be strong, it will not go beyond that necessary to compensate for the shortening, and even without abduction a certain amount of scoliosis is almost inevitable. In the majority of cases, however, the anchylosis is so firm that the deformity cannot be overcome by these means alone, and would require for its rectification a force that would be almost certain to light up the disease afresh. Various operative measures must therefore be considered, the principal being excision of the joint, removal of a wedge of bone from