DISLOCATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE. pushed forward. This apparatus may be kept on for three or four weeks, the strap being tightened whenever it gets loose, and after it is left off, the arm should be supported in a large elbow-sling for another two or three weeks. A more efficacious but somewhat more complicated apparatus is shown in Fig. I, and is made by applying a shoulder-cap, between which and the acromial end of the clavicle a firm pad is inserted, and supporting the elbow in a moulded elbow-sling. The sling and the shoulder-cap can then be braced firmly together by straps or elastic tubing, and the humerus is thus forcibly pushed upwards. Wiring.—The above methods are applicable to the ordinary cases where the displacement is not great. When, however, the displacement is very marked and there is considerable over-riding of the articular ends, and more particularly when there is inability to raise the arm properly from the side, operative interference may with advantage be practised. A curved incision is made with its convexity forwards, the flap dissected back, and the joint exposed; the dislocated surfaces can then be replaced in position and the torn ligaments stitched together. Although it is easy to reduce the dislocation thus, it may be found no easy matter to keep the articular surfaces in contact. Recurrence of the deformity may take place as easily as when reduction is performed without an operation, and if this be the case it will be requisite to drill the joint, and pass a wire between the clavicle and the acromion, so as to mechanically fix the ends together. The bones should be drilled obliquely, so that the wire passes through both articular surfaces, which are got into accurate position when the wire is twisted up. A wire of No. 5 French gauge—i.e. 5 mm. in circumference—will suffice. This, however, has the disadvantage that it abolishes the movements between the clavicle and the scapula, which are ver^ important for the proper performance of the antero-posterior move- ment of the latter. Nevertheless it may have to be done, as it gives strength to the arm and is often of considerable value to the patient. No restriction need be placed upon movement after the operation, as the parts will be held firm by the wire. Gentle passive movements, gradually increasing in range, may be begun at the end of the first fortnight. Unreduced dislocations.—In long-standing cases accompanied by marked disability it may be necessary to have recourse to operation in order to give the patient a useful arm. Here the surgeon should excise the joint by removing the cartilaginous surfaces, and the clavicle should then be fixed to the acromion by means of a stout silver wire (No. 5 French gauge) passed vertically through the whole thickness of the clavicle, and similarly through the acromion process. This will usually fix the bones quite firmly. (b) Of dislocation downwards.—When the end of the clavicle is wedged beneath the acromion or the coracoid process, the patient should be placed under an anfesthetic, when it will generally be easy to disentangle the bone by carrying the shoulder forcibly backwards and outwards. There will not i)e the same tendency to upward displacement after reduction