THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 196 little tendency to adhesion, and the trouble will subside almost spon- taneously. We have already spoken of the treatment of sprains and the synovitis accompanying them (see p. 77), and we need not therefore refer further to these cases. When, however, the inflammatory attack is very acute, the indications are, firstly to subdue the inflammation as rapidly as possible, and secondly to prevent adhesions forming in the joint afterwards. Rest and elevation of the limb are the first essentials. The patient should be confined to bed, with the limb upon a suitable splint and somewhat elevated. The knee should be kept as straight as it can be got without pain; it will generally be necessary to allow some flexion, as the fully extended position is almost intolerable if there be much distension. The best apparatus is a Maclntyre's splint slightly bent at the knee, and suitably padded, or a trough of Gooch's splinting, in which the limb is fixed, with an extra amount of padding behind the knee, which can be gradually reduced as the swelling subsides, until finally the limb is brought perfectly straight. Amongst local applications, fomentations are probably most satisfactory; they may be applied as follows, without removing the splint and with- out wetting the padding. After the splint has been padded, but before it is put on, a broad piece of mackintosh is placed over the padding in the popliteal space, sufificiently long to fold around the limb, and reaching from about the middle of the thigh to the middle of the leg. The limb is now placed upon the splint, which is fastened on by means of straps or bandages, leaving the knee uncovered; the edges of the mackintosh are then turned aside, the fomentations laid in place over the front of the knee and the mackintosh folded over them. A large mass of wool is then put on over all and secured by a bandage. Hot fomentations are on the whole better and more soothing than ice-bags or the evaporating lotions so commonly employed. They should be changed as soon as they get cold—about every 2 or 3 hours. When the inflammation is very acute, it is a good plan to apply half a dozen leeches around the patella and over the supra-patellar pouch before employing the fomentations. Under this treatment the attack will soon subside, and the fluid will be almost absorbed in a week or ten days; it will then be necessary to deal with the adhesions which occur, most frequently in the supra-patellar pouch. As soon therefore as the acute symptoms have subsided—that is to say, in about ten days after the commencement of the attack—gentle massage and passive movement should be begun; the patella should be moved freely in all directions, and the knee gently flexed. Unless these manoeuvres be followed by an increase of the effusion, a little more may be done the following day, and the massage may be also more vigorous. This treatment should be continued for three or four days, when, in the absence of any bad symptom, the patient may be allowed to walk, at first wearing a firm