DISEASES OF THE ELBOW JOINT. 263 As a rule the restriction of movement afterwards is quite slight and the arm is perfectly firm and movable, but in the cases in which the disease has been very advanced, anchylosis may occur; this can if necessary be remedied by excision when adult life is reached. In adults excision is the better operation. Arthrectomy does not give such good results as far aS the mobility and usefulness of the joint are concerned, nor is it so easy to get rid of the disease by its means; in fact the mobility after arthrectomy in adults is not nearly so great as after excision. The question of early excision in elbow joint disease depends upon the condition of the patient, his willingness to undergo an operation, and also to a considerable extent upon his occupation. It must be re- membered that a stiff elbow without any removal of bone will no doubt be stronger than the movable elbow obtained after excision, and in some occupations it is more important for the patient to have a strong arm which is stiff than a movable one which is weak ; hence, before deciding upon operating, it is important to consult the patient himself as to the relative value of movement and strength in his work. In the majority of cases, however, both as a time-saving method and as giving greater utility, excision will be preferred. Excision of tlie elbow.—Various incisions have been recommended, the older operations through a vertical or an H-shaped incision possessing the drawback that it is diflficult to properly remove the synovial membranes through them. After employing various methods, the conclusion we have come to is that the best incisions for the operation are similar to those just recommended for arthrectomy; in fact we are firmly of opinion that excision of the elbow is best performed by removing the synovial mem- brane in a manner precisely similar to that described for arthrectomy, and, in fact, performing the operation in the two cases in an identical fashion up to the point of protruding the bone ends (see p. 260). When the bone ends are protruded, the periosteum over the olecranon should be peeled off with a raspatory, leaving the triceps still attached to it; the olecranon process and the articular surface of the ulna are then removed by a saw applied just below the level of the coronoid process. The head of the radius is next nipped off by bone forceps, after which the humerus is protruded through the wound and sawn off at the level of the condyles. This leaves the upper part of the olecranon fossa behind, and this should be thoroughly scooped out so as to remove all the cartilage. The incision may now be stitched up, and the limb fixed upon an internal angular splint. If no sinuses were present before operation, a drainage tube is unnecessary ; when they have been present, the wound should be swabbed out with undiluted carbolic acid and drainage tubes inserted. If a drainage tube be employed, it should be left in until it is certain that no suppuration will occur, which will be in three or four days. After-treatment.—Pronation and supination should be practised passively