THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. half an inch thick will be amply sufficient to compensate for the loss. The result is equally good in adults and in children. DISEASE OF THE BASE OF THE FIRST METATARSAL. —The disease usually begins in the interior of the base of the bone and may gradually find its way outwards either to the inner and anterior aspect of the bone, or it may open into the articulation between it and the internal cuneiform, or attack the synovial membrane of that joint. Treatment.— JV/ieu the disease retnains limited to the interior of the done, the best treatment is to excise the base of the bone, cutting it through well beyond the tuberculous focus. In this way the disease is cured at once and the risk of infection of the tarsal joints, which is always present if palliative treatment be adopted, is avoided. The functional result is excellent, as the bone remaining does not get materially drawn up, and dense fibrous tissue forms in the vacant space, replacing it quite satisfactorily. If the deposit has not reached the surface, a considerable amount of the periosteum may be turned back during the operation and new bone will then be formed. Fig. 63.—Incision for Removal of a Tuberculous Deposit in the Base of the First Metatarsal. 'The bifurcation at each end of the incision is to facilitate the turning back of the edges of the incision. The operation is easily done through an incision in the long axis of the bone, a little to the inner side of the extensor tendon; this should extend down to about the centre of the bone, below and well over the internal cuneiform above (see Fig. 63). The periosteum and soft tissues are detached as far as possible: the anterior and internal ligaments connecting it with the internal cuneiform are divided, the bone partially sawn across beyond the expanded portion, and the division completed with cutting pliers. The divided end of the bone is then seized and pulled inwards, when the outer ligaments between it and the cuneiform and also the connections between the first and second metatarsals are divided. After the bone has been removed, the cut surfaces must be examined to see if they are healthy, and any diseased synovial membrane about the internal cuneiform should be carefully removed. When a healthy surface is everywhere obtained, the wound is stitched up without a