3o6 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SFINE. able benefit, and to these may be added the local treatment of the back muscles by suitable massage. The spinal muscles should be rubbed night and morning for from five to ten minutes at a time, either with olive oil or with sea-water. The kyphosis of adult life resulting from faulty positions does not call for any particular treatment beyond that dictated by common-sense, such as attention to posture, which if necessary must involve the giving up of the particular occupation that induces the curvature. This should be combined with massage and suitable gymnastic exercises designed to extend the spine and to strengthen the erector muscles. These will be described immediately in connection with scoliosis (see p. 319). The treatment of the kyphosis which occurs as a complication of various other diseases, such as osteo-arthritis, osteo-malacia, and osteitis deformans, calls for little or no remark. The treatment must be that of the primary disease, of which the spinal deformity is a mere episode and not one . which, as a rule, gives rise to any discomfort. SCOLIOSIS. By this term is understood a lateral deviation of the spine, accom- panied by a certain amount of rotation of the individual vertebrae upon their vertical axes ; this latter occurrence is essential for the production of true scoliosis, for it is possible to have a lateral deviation of the spine without any rotation of the vertebrae—when the case is strictly one of lateral curvature rather than of true scoliosis. The two terms should be kept quite distinct, but at the same time it must be remembered that many cases of true scoliosis commence as a simple lateral deviation of the spinal column, and the rotation of the vertebrae only takes place at a later period; this is particularly the case when the spinal muscles are weak. Simple lateral curvature, if treated sufificiently early, does not necessarily give rise to true scoliosis. CAUSES.—We shall not attempt to go at length into the mechanics of this condition, but various experiments seem to prove that the most essential factor in the production of scoliosis is the transmission of the weight of the upper part of the body through the vertebral column, which, by the enfeeblement of its various muscles, or by the habitual maintenance of a faulty position, has allowed a lateral deviation to occur. The constant pressure thus produced will inevitably produce rotation of the vertebrae on account of the conformation of the constituent parts of the curved spine and their 'Articulations. The condition is strongly predisposed to by any cause of general debility, particularly rickets and anaemia, and is greatly favoured by over- fatigue and the constant assumption of faulty attitudes. The latter, by causing a deviation of the spinal column, places the spinal muscles on one side at a mechanical disadvantage compared with their fellows on the