DISEASES OF THE WRIST AND HAND. 269 affects the after-utility of the hand, is that the thumb is commonly allowed to lie upon the same level as the rest of the hand and usually in close contact with it. If the thumb becomes stiff in this position, all power of opposition is lost even though movement be retained in the fingers, and Lord Lister has pointed out, with special reference to excision, the importance of making the splint sufificiently narrow to allow the thumb to drop; indeed any splint employed for wrist-joint disease should be cut away opposite the ball of the thumb, and the latter should be allowed to hang down at the side of the splint whilst the metacarpus is supported as just de.scribed. The result of these precautions is that, during the treatment, the fingers and thumb can be kept moved, and, even if a certain amount of stiffness should occur, the power of grasp in the thumb will be retained. The splint should reach as high as the elbow and may be fixed on by plaster of Paris or waterglass. The arm should be carried in a sling during the day, and at night should be laid upon a pillow or upon an inclined plane, and it is well to provide the splint with a wooden support on the under surface so as to raise it when it lies upon an inclined plane or a pillow, so that the thumb is allowed to hang down; otherwise the pressure of the inclined plane will push the thumb up. The fingers should be freely moved passively and actively every day. The apparatus is readjusted whenever necessary, and, so long as the disease improves, there is no doubt that the best result is obtained without operation. (b) Operative.— If the disease be progressive, and there be internal tuberculosis, some form of operative procedure must be adopted, the choice lying between excision or amputation. Excision is only suited for cases occurring in comparatively young adults w^ho are healthy and strong, and in whom there is no sign of tuberculosis elsewhere; when the patient is feeble and old, when there is tuberculous mischief in the lungs, when the local mischief has spread to the tendon sheaths or when there are abscesses and sinuses, amputation is the best practice. Excision of the wrist joint.—The operation introduced by Lord Lister is perhaps the one that offers the greatest advantages. It is a very com- plicated procedure and in any given case may require modification according to circumstances, but it is far preferable to the so-called sub-periosteal resection of the bones carried out by some of the French surgeons, in which tuberculous mischief is very apt to be left behind. Before commencing the operation, the fingers must be thoroughly moved so as to break down any adhesions present, because after the operation this cannot be done nearly so readily. The operation is admirably described by Mr. Jacobson in The Operations of Surgery, third edition, page 38, from which the following description is taken : "The radial incision is . . . planned so as to avoid the radial artery and also the tendons of the extensor secundi internodii and indicis. It commences above at the middle of the dorsal aspect of the radius on a