156 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. by making a curved incision over the joint, and turning aside a flap so as to expose the region that it is proposed to open up. The outer shell of the bone is then cut away with a gouge over an area about the size of a two-shilling piece, and, with a sharp spoon, some of the soft cancellous tissue is scooped out. The hole thus made should not go deeply, and should not run near the articular surface. After the bleeding has been arrested, the wound is stitched up and the usual antiseptic dressings are applied. The limb need not be put on a splint, but the patient should stay in bed for about three weeks afterwards, not only in order that the wound may heal, but to allow the clot in the bone cavity to undergo a certain amount of organisation. This somewhat severe operation is not always necessary, and much im- provement may follow simple drillifig of the bone. For this, an incision is made in the skin sufficient to admit a drill, and through it the latter is pushed well into the bone in various directions. This plan, although not so efficient as the preceding, has the advantage that it does not entail confinement to bed. When the patient's chief trouble is due to the presence of osteophytes around the joint interfering with movement, much benefit may be obtained by removing them. This should only be done however when one or two main osteophytic growths are causing the trouble, and not when the joint surface is practically entirely surrounded by them. A further advantage of the operation is that any adherent nerves in the neighbourhood may be freed, and also that the bone is opened up to a certain extent so that the advantages following gouging of the bone will result. It is however comparatively seldom that the operation is required; it may be called for in the hip joint, when the patient suffers severe pain from pressure upon the nerves in the vicinity by osteophytic outgrowths or by actual adhesion to the capsule. Should any adherent nerves be found, they should be separated and well stretched (see Part II., p. 262). This gives considerable relief, which however cannot be relied upon to persist. Some surgeons advocate excision when the disease is limited to one or two joints, when the patient is crippled and when previous treatment has completely failed. When several joints are affected, excision can hardly be called for, but when the trouble is limited to one joint, especially when this is in the upper extremity, and is one in which mobility may be reasonably looked for as a result of the operation, there does not seem to be the serious objection to excision which exists in the minds of some. In the hip joint the operation is out of the question; excision gives an extremely bad functional result, and further osteophytic outgrowths are very apt to occur around the divided end of the bone, so that the operation is likely' to result in an increase of the trouble. In the knee, on the other hand, excision may be justifiable when the pain is so great as to prevent the patient getting about, and when this joint is the only one affected. The bones unite with perfect readiness