71 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANKLE. Fracture of either of the fnalleoli does not add much to the difficulty of the treatment. AVhen the dislocation has been reduced, the limb should be put on a back splint with a foot-piece at right angles for a few days, and an ice-bag or Leiter's tubes should be applied to the fractured malleolus. In any case passive movement and massage should be carried out from an early period so as to prevent the occurrence of adhesions (see Part IIL, p. 156). When there is no fracture, the movements should be begun on the day following the accident; when there is a fracture present, the after-treatment will be practically that for fracture of the lower end of the tibia or fibula, as the case may be. The passive movements should be begun after the first three or four days. DISLOCATIONS OF THE FOOT. SUB-ASTRAGALAR DISLOCATION.—In this type of injury the whole of the foot with the exception of the astragalus undergoes dislocation, the latter bone remaining in its normal position beneath the tibio-fibular arch. The essential lesions here are rupture of the connections between the astragalus and the os calcis on the one hand, and those between the former bone and the scaphoid on the other. The foot usually undergoes a double displacement, being dislocated either forwards or backwards and to one side; the most common displacement is backwards and either inwards or outwards, more commonly the latter. In the most usual displacement, i.e. backwards and outwards, the head of the astragalus rests upon the upper surface either of the scaphoid, or of the internal cuneiform bone. The posterior articular surface of the astragalus generally lies upon the anterior articular surface of the os calcis, the dislo- cation at the calcaneo-a^tragaloid joint being only partial. The injury is generally produced by indirect violence, such as occurs when a patient alights from a height upon the toes which are deflected to one side, while the weight of the body forces the ankle and the astragalus forwards, and to the other side. The lateral displacement depends upon the particular position of the foot when the violence is applied. In the usual form the foot is extended, and there is a prominence on the instep in the neighbourhood of the scaphoid due to the protrusion of the head of the astragalus. The tendo Achillis is unduly separated from the back of the tibia, and is much tenser than normal, whilst the heel is unduly prominent. Treatment.—This dislocation is often very difficult to reduce. This is partly due to the tension of the tendo Achillis, and probably partly also to a hitching of the sharp posterior edge of the articular surface of the astragalus in the interosseous groove of the os calcis. It may also in part be due to the fact that the tendon of the tibialis anticus may get beneath the neck of the astragalus, and prevent it from being brought properly into position.