222 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. common in this situation, it is possible sometimes to get sufficient rigidity to enable the patient to get about. With the view of preventing deformity, a Thomas's knee spUnt (see Fig. 52) is the best apparatus at first; at a later stage, when consolidation is advancing, a good apparatus is one similar to that employed after operation for genu valgum in adults, namely, an outside iron running down the outer side of the limb, socketed below into the heel of the boot, and fixed to the pelvis by a suitable band; to this the limb is firmly bandaged. In most cases it is also advisable to have a second rod descending from the pelvic girdle along the back of the limb so as to give extra support. This apparatus must be worn for the rest of the patient's life. HYSTERICAL CONDITIONS. These must be treated similarly to hysterical joint disease elsewhere (see p. 145). When true contracture occurs, it may be necessary to divide the hamstring tendons. The majority of these may be divided sub- cutaneously where they are most prominent, but the biceps tendon should be divided through an open incision; if the operation be done subcuta- neously, the external popliteal nerve runs a risk of being divided also. H/EMOPHILIA. Effusion of blood into the knee from this cause is not at all uncommon, the joint swelling up suddenly and becoming distended with blood after a slight injury or without any injury at all. Treatment.—The limb should be placed at rest on a splint in the elevated position, the patient being recumbent, and an ice-bag or evaporating lotions (see Part I., p. 8) should be applied. The general treatment of hemophilia is unsatisfactory, but it is well to administer chloride of calcium in one-grain pills in the hope of increasing the coagulability of the blood. Massage and aspiration should be avoided on account of the risk of increasing the bleeding. When the effusion has disappeared, passive movement must be very cautiously resorted to. INTERNAL DERANGEMENTS OF THE KNEE JOINT. The knee is especially liable to the various forms of disability formerly classed under the term, "internal derangements of the knee joint." These may be subdivided into two main groups: (i) Actual loose bodies—the so-called loose cartilages—and (2) Injuries to the semilunar cartilages, villous fringes in the joint (see p. 107), or detachment of the ligamenta alaria. LOOSE CARTILAGES.—These are very common, and their symptoms have already been described (see p. 158). The patient very frequently