29 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. The articulation must be freely opened up, every facility provided for the escape of pus, and irrigation of the joint, or the water-bath employed. If the condition be grave, the question of excision or amputation will also arise, and will be determined by the rules laid down for the treatment of septic wounds of joints (see Chap. XI.). TREATMENT OF UNREDUCED DISLOCATION. It is not uncommon to meet with unreduced dislocation of the shoulder. This may be due to the injury not having been recognised at the time, to the patient not having sought advice, to the surgeon having been under the impression that he has reduced the dislocation while really he has failed to do so, or to the dislocation having recurred after reduction. In any case the affection is a serious one. The head of the bone in its new position very soon contracts adhesions to the surrounding structures, and, in sub-glenoid and sub-coracoid dislocations, the vessels and nerves are stretched directly over the head of the bone, and adhesions are extremely likely to form between them. The chief trouble in reducing a dislocation of the shoulder of long- standing arises from these adhesions, and the principal danger is from adhesions between the head of the bone and the axillary vessels and nerves, particularly the former. Besides this, the capsular ligament rapidly shrinks and becomes distorted, while the glenoid cavity becomes shallow and filled up with soft tissues. Therefore, in attempting to reduce a long-standing dislocation of this kind, we are confronted with three principal difficulties. In the first place, there is the mechanical one caused by the adhesion of the head of the bone to the surrounding structures and the shortening of the muscles and tendons attached to the tuberosities; in the second place, there is the difficulty of replacing the head in position after these obstacles have been overcome, owing to the alterations in ■ the capsule and the filling up of the glenoid cavity; and lastly, there is the danger caused by the adhesion of important structures, like vessels and nerves, to the head of the bone. All these changes occur very rapidly, so that it is only when the dislocation has remained unreduced for a very short time that the surgeon is warranted in attempting to reduce it. It is somewhat difficult to lay down any rule as to the exact length of time after a dislocation of the shoulder has occurred within which it is safe to attempt reduction. Cases are known in which reduction has been successfully accomplished as long as two months or more after the injury. On the other hand, however, rupture of the axillary artery has resulted from attempts to reduce a dislocation of four .weeks' standing. We should be inclined to lay down the rule that it is not advisable to attempt the reduction of a sub-coracoid or sub-glenoid dislocation after four or five weeks have elapsed from the time of the injury, and that it is practically unjustifiable to attempt it after seven weeks.