TUBERCULOUS DISEASE. (non-elastic) straps, which are fastened into buckles attached to the brace. Padded straps passing from the - top of the brace, around the arm.s, under the axilh^, and attached to buckles in the middle of the brace help to secure it; but the scapulae, being movable, cannot be relied upon alone to fix the trunk, and the apron must be furnished with straps at the top which pass over the shoulders to buckles in the top of the brace. " In adults, it is often convenient to have the ayjron split down the front and provided with webbing straps and buckles. It can then be adjusted by the patient himself without touching the straps at the back, which secure the apron to the brace. "A useful addition in certain cases of dorsal caries is found in the use of Dr. Taylor's chest piece. By means of hard rubber pads a definite counter point of pressure is furnished at the upper part of the chest which keeps the brace closely against the back. The pads of the chest piece may be made of hard rubber and fit in below the clavicles where they cause no discomfort, and restrict the chest movements less than the apron, besides affording more definite support. " The brace should be worn day and night, and removed daily that the back may be bathed. While the brace is off the patient should lie on the face or the back. On no account should he sit erect. The back after being washed should be rubbed with alcohol and then powdered with face powder, corn starch, or fuller's earth. The brace should then be applied and buckled tightly in place. " Chafing of the back is sometimes unavoidable in summer. When a severe chafed spot forms, the brace must be removed for the time, and the child lie flat in bed till the ulcer heals." Collars.—When the disease affects the cervical region, the best apparatus takes the form of a collar supported from the shoulders, and grasping the head Fio. 137.—Poroi'I.asi ic Collars for Spinal Diseasu;. A is the good form of appar.itiis, taking its support from the pelvis and enclosing the entire thora.x. It is easily seen that li is a faulty form, as it allows a certain amount of movement of the entire apparatus, which rests upon the shonlders. so as to fix and support it. There are several of these collars which act very well; a very simple and effectual one is that made of poroplastic material.