74 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. fastened to a band around the upper part of the leg and hinged opposite the ankle joint (see Fig. 32). This should be worn for the best part of a year, when it will generally be found that the tendency to inversion has disappeared. In long-standing cases, where the dislocation has remained unreduced, excision of the astragalus with the subsequent division of any adhesions which prevent the foot coming for- ward, is by far the best plan, and gives a satisfactory result. DISLOCATION OF THE AS- TRAGALUS ALONE.—The astra- galus may be detached both from the bones of the leg above and those of the foot below, and may thus be completely separated from all its articular connections. It may be dis- placed in various directions; most commonly it passes more or less directly forwards, but it may also be dislocated backwards or to either side. The injury is usually caused by very severe violence, and is not at all in- frequently complicated by fracture of the bone itself; it is also not un- commonly compound, either as a direct result of the violence, or from subsequent sloughing of the skin which is tightly stretched over the prominent head of the bone. It usually results from violence applied to the foot in the fully extended position, as may occur in alighting from a height upon the toes, or in machinery accidents, where the limb is violently pulled and twisted in a complicated manner. Disloca- tion of the bone backwards is produced by extreme violence applied whilst the foot is fully flexed, but this is a very rare accident. Treatment.—Reduction is usually a matter of extreme difficulty, and general anaesthesia is essential. The knee should be fully flexed and the leg fixed by an assistant. Traction should be exerted downwards upon the foot bodily so as to separate the os calcis as far as possible from the tibio-fibular arch. While this is maintained at its utmost extent, attempts are made to press the astragalus back into position between the os calcis and the tibia. The separation of the bones of the foot from those of the leg may be aided by dividing the tendo Achillis. When, however, these attempts at reduction fail, it is imperative to take further steps at once, as otherwise gangrene of the skin over the project- ing bone is almost certain to follow. The best plan is to cut down through Fig. 32.—Boot for Use after Excision of Astragalus. This is merely a boot fitted with stout lateral leg-irons which are fastened into the heel below and furnished with an ordinary hinge- joint opposite the ankle. The chief object of the apparatus is to prevent inversion of ihe foot.