202 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. acuteness of the disease and on whether or not there was primary disease of the synovial membrane; in the latter case the enlargement of the joint is very marked, but when the synovial disease is secondary to rupture of an osseous deposit the thickening may be comparatively slight and there may be a considerable amount of fluid in the joint. I7i the third stage abscesses form and may or may not burst externally and lead to sinuses. The abscesses often form in the most superficial portions of the synovial membrane and may then find their way externally without opening into the joint. It does not necessarily follow that a probe can be passed into the joint through a sinus in connection with knee joint disease, and the greatest care must always be used in probing these sinuses not to use force, or else a communication with the joint, which otherwise would not have existed, may be established. In other cases, however, the abscess communicates both with the joint and the exterior, whilst in others again the suppuration begins within the joint and finally perforates the capsule and the skin over it. In this stage there is increased synovial thickening; th^re is also severe pain with starting pains at night, whilst the laxity of the joint increases, and flexion and rotation outwards are more marked, As the flexion goes on, the tibia becomes drawn up behind the femur, so that the limb cannot be brought straight even under an anEesthetic. Ift the fourth stage recovery is taking place, and a considerable amount of anchylosis will be met with, which may be fibrous or bony, according to the amount of destruction that has taken place in the articular cartilages and the bones; generally it is fibrous or only partly bony. Restoration of movement seldom occurs to any marked degree unless recovery takes place quite in the early stages of a primary synovial disease. When recovery occurs in the second or third stages there will be anchylosis, due partly to adhesions between the opposed surfaces of the joint and partly to shortening and thickening of the ligaments and obliteration of the synovial capsule. I?i the fifth stage the symptoms have entirely subsided but, either because there has been no treatment or because it has been inefificient, deformity has resulted; the knee is flexed up to or beyond a right angle, with rotation outwards of the leg and drawing up of the head of the tibia behind the femur, so that it is impossible to bring the leg straight; indeed if this be done forcibly, true dislocation backwards will actually be produced. TREATMENT.—It will perhaps be best if we divide the treatment first of all into that suitable for tuberculous deposits in the bone and synovial membrane and that appropriate for general tuberculous disease of the joint. The treatment of the latter form will again be subdivided according to the clinical stages at which it is met. (a) Of localised deposits, either synovial or osseous.—Whenever these deposits can be recognised, their early removal is of course indicated.