59 DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. The skin is then thoroughly disinfected, and an incision about four inches long running downwards and forwards from just beneath the anterior superior iliac spine is made in the interval between the tensor vaginje femoris and the sartorius. The deep fascia of the thigh is opened, the two muscles above mentioned are pulled apart, and the region of the neck and head of the bone is exposed (see Fig. 27). In order to get satisfactory access to the acetabulum, it will generally be found necessary to detach some of the muscles from the ilium. Division of the tensor vagince femoris and the anterior part of the gluteus minimus may be necessary, as they will probably be somewhat shortened, and will not only oppose proper re- traction of the wound, but will also interfere with the extension of the limb necessary to bring the head of the bone into position. The capsule of the joint is next incised, and the Y-ligament defined and divided. The incision into the capsule should be near its insertion into the neck of the femur, and the division of the Y-ligament may also be at that spot. The divided capsule is pulled aside to expose the ace- tabulum, out of which the soft parts must be cleared by a gouge so as to fit it for the reception of the head of the femur. Traction is then effected by an assistant or by pulleys, and any resisting structures are divided; not infrequently the tendon of the obturator internus must be cut. After this has been done, the head of the bone can usually be brought into the acetabulum. The wound is sewn up without a drainage tube, the ordinary gauze dressings are applied, and the limb fixed upon a long Liston splint, and, if there be considerable shortening of the muscles, weight extension may be employed for the first three weeks. For this purpose heavy weights, from seven pounds upwards, will be required. ' After about three weeks, the splint and the extension may be discontinued, and massage and passive movements must be carefully and thoroughly carried out. After six weeks the patient may be allowed to get about with a crutch or a stick; but he must not bear much weight upon the limb, and must be warned against abducting or flexing it to any great degree for at least another six weeks. The results are usually quite satisfactory. When, however, division of the resisting structures does not allow the head of the bone to come into position, the question of what further can Fig. 27.—Anterior Incision for Extosing THE Neck of the Femur. The two muscles hooked .iside are the Sartorius on the inner, and the Tensor Vaginje Femoris on the outer side of the limb. This e.xposes the neck of the bone directly; the fibres of the capsule are shown in the figure.