345 TUBERCULOUS DISEASE. the spine is prevented, and at the same time the weight of the body is taken off the diseased area ; and (2) the tonic muscular contraction may be abolished by employing extension and counter-extension to the feet and head. Rest.—Formerly it was the fashion to place the patient in the prone position, the advantages claimed for this being that the patient can read, play, eat, etc., much more comfortably than when lying on the back, that there is no direct pressure upon the spine and that the abdominal muscles cannot pull upon the curve. The prone position is however in our opinion essentially bad because it does not give the spine absolute rest, because it cannot be combined satisfactorily with extension, because the thorax and abdomen are pressed upon and the functions of the contained organs are consequently interfered with, because there is pressure on the anterior or diseased part of the spine and because the bowels and bladder cannot be relieved satisfactorily without moving the patient. Hence, we consider it most essential that the patient should be placed upon his back. The mattrass should be of hair upon a firm spring bed or upon fracture-boards (see Part III. p. 26). If the mattrass be too soft or the springs too weak, the body sinks in the middle, and so the upper and lower parts of the spine are pressed together. In fact, as long as there is no risk of bedsore, it is best to use fracture-boards and to do away with the spring mattrass in the first instance. No pillow or bolster should be used, but the head should lie flat in a line with the body and should not be raised for any purpose, except when the disease is in the lower lumbar region, when the head may be raised, provided that the shoulders are not moved. To allow of manipulation of the bed-pan and attention to the sacrum without moving the patient, the divided mattrass, previously described (see p. 287), should be employed; the narrow portion beneath the pelvis is divided into two lateral halves, and, when the bed-pan is used, one half is pulled out, the bed-pan slipped in so as to give support in its place, and the other side is drawn slowly away so as to allow the pan to come into position. The thighs must be kept horizontal as well as the body because the drawing-up of the thighs throws the psoas muscles into action, and, in dorso-lumbar or lumbar disease, this means disturbance at the seat of disease. In disease of the cervical. region, the head and neck must be placed between short broad sandbags. In very restless subjects it may be advisable to mould a light plaster of Paris casing over the front and sides of the trunk so as to control movement sufiici. ently. Usually however the sandbags suffice. Extension.—One of the most valuable factors in the treatment of spinal disease at all stages and in all situations except perhaps the lower lumbar region is extension to the head and lower extremities. It is done as follows: the ordinary extension apparatus (see Part III. p. 23) is