SPINA BIFIDA. 297 membranous sac, or subsequently from hydrocephalus. The few who reach maturity are generally patients in whom the tumour is covered with healthy skin and contains no nerve elements. TREATMENT.—The treatment of spina bifida resolves itself into palliative and radical treatment. (a) Palliative treatment.—The first important question that presents itself to the surgeon is whether operative means should be resorted to or whether he will be content with palliative measures. These latter are called for in all cases where operation is refused, where the child is obviously so feeble that surgical interference is not warranted, where the opening into the spinal canal is very extensive, or where the covering of the tumour consists entirely of healthy skin and there is very con- siderable probability that the child may grow up; here operation is not urgently called for and is best delayed until the child is older. Operation would also be delayed when ulceration is present, so as to give time for the ulcer to heal, provided there be no imminent danger of perforation. Shields.—The first essential in the palliative treatment is to protect the tumour from all possibility of injury by an accurately fitting shield, which should be moulded directly to a cast of the swelling. This shield may be made of various materials; among the most satisfactory are aluminium or celluloid, which should be perforated with holes so as to allow the perspiration to evaporate. These shields may be fixed on by strapping around the margin so as to prevent them shifting laterally, and by a broad abdominal belt fastened in front. Poroplastic felt also makes a very good shield; it allows the escape of perspiration and is cheap, but if the tumour be large, it will require strengthening to prevent it from being dented on pressure. This is easily done by fastening two strips of light steel at right angles to each other over the exterior of the shield. Beneath the shield should be placed a piece of boracic lint, and, if ulceration be present, this lint should be coated with quarter-strength boracic ointment and the part dressed night and morning. Great care must of course be taken to prevent soiling of the region of the tumour, especially when it is situated low down. (b) Operative Measures.—The only operative measures that promise any reasonable hope of success are injections of Morton's fluid and excision of the sac. Such procedures as ligature of the sac, galvano-puncture, the introduction of setons, etc., are bad, on account of the septic infection which practically always follows and because of the injury frequently done to the nervous contents of the sac. (a) Injection of Morton's fluid.—The plan of injecting these tumours has been practised for many years, but it was not followed by any real benefit until Dr. Morton suggested his combination of iodine with glycerine with which such greatly improved results have been obtained; indeed in a considerable number of cases a cure has followed. Morton's fluid consists of ten grains of iodine and half a drachm of iodide of potassium