120 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. wool. If preferred, a silicate bandage may be put on outside the wool instead of the elastic one, so as to maintain a constant steady pressure. The dressing should not be renewed oftener than once a week; in some cases it can be left a good deal longer. When it is removed the parts should be washed and shaved afresh. Sometimes the Scott's dressing irritates the skin, and in this case its place may be taken by simple pressure applied through the medium of a mass of cotton wool or silk waste, fixed on by a silicate bandage; if this be put on sufficiently thickly the bandage may be pulled as tight as the surgeon can apply it without fear of causing undue pressure. As a rule pressure is only of use when recovery is taking place; when the disease is active it is very likely to cause irritation and actually to increase the inflammation. Hence, it should not be employed in the initial stages of the affection. Massage, which is of much value in the later stages of simple chronic inflammation, is not permissible in tuber- culous disease. Injection of iodoform emulsion.^Lately the use of injections of iodoform and glycerine and the artificial production of venous congestion— the method known as Bier's—have been very much advocated, especially in Germany; the former method certainly often gives remarkably good results. The emulsion contains ten per cent, of iodoform, and in our opinion it is well to prepare it most carefully so as to insure freedom from micro-organisms, for iodoform is not an active antiseptic, and, although glycerine destroys septic organisms, it is hardly safe to trust entirely to its germicidal powers. We therefore recommend that the iodoform used for the emulsion should first be allowed to stand submerged in a 1-20 watery solution of carbolic acid for at least 48 hours, the bottle being frequently shaken so as to insure the free access of the acid to the powder. Instead of using pure glycerine for the emulsion, we are in the habit of adding to it a two-thousandth part of corrosive sublimate. The iodoform is strained from the carbolic acid, and is mixed with the glycerine in the proper pro- portion—ten per cent. The emulsion should be put in a sterilised bottle and allowed to stand for another 24 hours before use. The emulsion is injected into the joint cavity, into the thickened synovial membrane, or into both, the amount employed varying with the age of the patient. In children the total amount used may be as much as from one to four drachms, whilst in adults double that quantity may be employed should the joint permit. Indeed, in joints that have been distended with fluid, a still larger quantity than this may be used, provided that the synovial membrane has not been scraped. No serious symptoms are likely to result from this, although no doubt they have followed the injection of large quantities of iodoform and glycerine into chronic abscesses. Poisonous symptoms may be due on the one hand to an excessive dose of iodoform, or on the other to the glycerine. The symptoms produced by iodoform are essentially mental disorder, delirium,