207 DISEASES OF THE KNEE JOINT. methods is very useful, as the Thomas's splint overcomes a common difficulty—viz., that the silicate bandage does not usually get a satisfactory hold upon the upper part of the thigh, and is therefore hardly sufficient by itself Thomas's knee splint consists of a groin ring, lateral rods running down the inner and outer sides of the limb, attached at the bottom to the boot, and three broad leather bands behind to support the limb. The groin ring is of an ovoid shape, the narrowest part being on the outer side, and the inner part, which rests on the tuber ischii, being thickly padded. This ring lies obliquely in the fold of the groin, the inner vertical rod being attached to it at an angle of 120°, the angle at the outer side varying with the shape of the limb. Thomas employed two splints—one for the recumbent position and one for rest in bed. In the case of the bed splint the lateral rods are attached at the longest diameters of the ovoid ring. In the walking splint the inner rod is attached further back. At the lower end, the foot is enclosed in a boot which is cut away in a V-shaped manner at the back part and the lateral rods are bent at right angles and passed into holes in the heel. The posterior leather bands are three in number: one about the middle of the thigh, one behind the knee, and one behind the lower part of the leg. The splint is fixed to the leg by two broad straps passing in front, one above and one below the knee. If flexion be present, these straps are employed to overcome it. If there be a tendency to knock-knee, the thigh is pulled outwards by a band attached to the outer rod, while the inner rod is bent inwards so as not to press on the internal condyle. A point of some importance at this stage is whether the patient should be allowed to get about on crutches wearing the splint, or whether he should be merely wheeled about in the recumbent position until the disease is more advanced towards recovery. In our opinion the latter course is preferable. The dependent position certainly interferes with the circulation in the limb and must therefore interfere with its nutrition, although, in view of Bier's method of treatment by producing passive congestion (see p. 122), this cannot have very great weight. Nevertheless the joint will be kept more perfectly at rest and the circulation in it will be better if the patient be kept recumbent. It is only in cases of pure synovial disease that permission to walk on crutches should be granted; when the bone is affected the patient ought to be kept recumbent. When the patient is allowed to walk, Thomas's knee splint is by far the best apparatus; no pressure is borne on the joint, the weight of the body is transmitted through the tuber ischii, which rests upon the upper ring of the splint, and the patient may thus bear weight directly upon the affected side without any undue pressure upon the joint. If walking be allowed when only the silicate apparatus is worn, there is constant pressure of the tibia upon the femur, which is bad for the chances of recovery. Pressure is often of considerable value at this stage of the treatment