SPINA BIFIDA. 299 late years the operation has been still further developed by the introduction of attempts to restore the bony roof of the spinal canal, so as to prevent on the one hand the possibility of recurrence and on the other the risk of injury to the cord from injuries later in life. This operation is suited for a considerable number of cases, but strict asepsis is absolutely essential for its success. This is by no means an easy matter to obtain when the tumour is in the lumbo-sacral region, especially when the child is only a few days or weeks old. Failure to obtain asepsis means an inevitably fatal result from septic spinal meningitis. In some of these operations also there must be considerable shock, especially when the nerve elements have to be dissected out. In fact, when we con- sider the age of the patient, the situation of the tumour, the consequent liability to septic infection and the magnitude of the operation, it is a very severe procedure; the mortality is undoubtedly large, and therefore the operation should not be resorted to except when it is absolutely necessary. Cases suitable for excision.—From the point of view of suitability for excision we may divide the cases into the three following groups ; I. Cases in which the sac is covered by normal skin afid does not contain nerve elements.—Unless the tumour be large and increasing, these cases may Fig. 79.—Incisions for Excision of a Spina Bifida. A shows the flap method that may be used when stout he.ilthy skin covers the tumour. The incision may be made with its convexity to one side if the shape or size of the tumour demands it. B. The incision in common use. This goes through the sound skin .iround the sides and base of the tumour, and encloses the thin membranous portion, which is removed. as a rule be left alone, or at most may be treated by means of Morton's injec- tions. When an operation is considered necessary because of the continued increase in the size of the tumour and the gradual thinning of the skin, the following is the procedure. The skin is rendered aseptic, and scrupulous pre- cautions are taken against shock both before and during the operation (see