THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. I02 acuter symptoms generally pass off, the pain subsides, and the second indication in the treatment, namely, the removal of the synovial effusion, requires consideration. When the fiuid is not excessive in amount counter-irritation will usually suffice. The joint should be freely blistered, fresh blisters being put on as soon as the old ones have healed, whilst rest to the limb and confinement to bed are persisted in. As a rule two or three blisters in succession are required, and as an interval of five or six days is necessary between each blistering, this' stage of the treatment will extend over two or three weeks. The joint will now as a rule be in a condition for more energetic treatment, which should consist of massage, gentle passive motion and the employment of pressure in the intervals between the manipulations. The massage should at first be very gentle, and, as the effusion subsides, passive motion may be begun. The vigour with which the massage is applied, and the extent to which the passive movements are carried, must be gauged by the sensations of the patient and the local conditions, more especially the inflammatory symptoms. As a rule, massage may be employed once daily for about a quarter of an hour; after a few days, this period may be gradually increased and the massage practised twice daily. Pressure by means of cotton wool and a bandage (see p. loo), reinforced later on by an elastic bandage, should be applied to the joint in the intervals between the massage, and the splint may be left off. As the inflammatory condition subsides, treatment must be directed against the occurrence of adhesions. This is best done by passive move- ment and massage on the lines already laid down, and these movements, which should be gentle at first, should be carried out with increasing vigour as the patient is able to bear them. Coincidently with the massage and passive movement, the use of splints and bandaging should gradually be abandoned. During the whole of this period, the case should be care- fully watched for any increase in the inflammatory symptoms, which would tend to show that the treatment is being pushed too rapidly. Occasionally the effusion persists or even increases in spite of this treatment; when this is so, the case will fall more justly into the next group to be described, i.e. those accompanied by excessive effusion, and the treatment there described must be followed. In freely movable joints, such as the knee, these attacks of acute or sub-acute arthritis are generally pretty readily recovered from, but when the affection occurs in the tarsal or the wrist joints there is often considerable difficulty in restoring the functions of the articulations completely because the inflammation does not remain limited to the synovial membrane of the joint itself, but affects the tendon sheaths and the ligaments and fascial structures around, so that more extensive adhesions have to be dealt with. A very good method of getting rid of any stiffness that remains after a careful and prolonged trial of passive movement and massage is by means of superheated air applied around the joint. This is done for about half