27 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. especially it is often stretched over the head of the bone and there is a temporary arrest in the circulation through it. The circulation is, of course, restored as soon as the displacement is remedied. In the more severe cases, however, the vessel may be severely bruised, and this may be followed by thrombosis. A much more serious condition is met with when the vessel is torn either partially or completely across as the result of extreme violence. One of two things will then happen: either the ruptured artery is so twisted or the head of the bone so presses upon it that there is no free escape of blood; or, a more common result, very profuse hiemorrhage takes place and the axilla becomes enormously dis- tended with blood. The patient may then either bleed to death in a very short time, or, if the rent be small and the escape of blood slower, the hfemorrhage will ultimately become partially arrested and a large diffuse axillary aneurism will occur. This condition is very easily recognised. The swelling in the axilla is very marked and may increase visibly, while the patient soon becomes faint from loss of blood. As a matter of fact, should the surgeon not happen to be present at the time of the accident, it is not at all unlikely that the patient will die before assistance can be pro- cured. This accident is however extremely rare in recent cases ; it is usually met with in attempts to reduce a dislocation of several weeks' standing. Treatment of injury to the artery.—When the condition is recognised, the first thing to be done is to compress the subclavian artery against the first rib, while arrangements are being made to cut down upon and secure the injured vessel. The method of compressing the subclavian artery has been mentioned in detail in Part II., p. 336; it may be effected by depressing the shoulder forcibly and either compressing the artery with the thumb as it passes over the first rib, or by wrapping the handle of a large key in a handkerchief or piece of lint and using that as a substitute for the thumb, which very easily gets tired. As soon as possible an incision should be made as for ligature of the third part of the axillary artery (see Part II., p. 337), but somewhat freer; the clots are turned out and the torn ends of the vessel secured and tied. The subclavian should meanwhile be compressed. If the extravasation be extreme, and particularly if there be any doubt as to the efficiency of the compre.ssion of the subclavian, an incision should first be made above the clavicle, as for ligature of the third part of the subclavian (see Part II., p. 322), which should extend through the skin and deep fascia, and through which an a.ssistant may introduce his thumb and so directly feel the vessel and compress it accurately against the rib whilst the incision into the axilla is being made. The surgeon is thus enabled to turn out all the clots thoroughly and to search carefully for the divided ends of the vessel, which may be difficult to find until the clots have been evacuated. After the vessel has been ligatured above and below the rent, the wound should be stitched up and a large drainage tube inserted in order to provide against the oozing which will be likely to occur.