287 INJURIES OF THE SPINE. Reduction.—Before proceeding to reduce and immobilise the fracture, the patient's bed should be prepared for his reception ; fracture-boards should be placed upon the bed-frame and upon them is laid a horse-hair matlrass, consisting of three parts, the central one {i.e. that beneath the sacrum) being again subdivided vertically into two lateral halves; each of the segments should have a separate sheet. A water-bed is not advisable at this stage. In some cases the fracture spontaneously reduces itself when the spine is in the horizontal position; in others, however, the deformity persists and it is well to attempt reduction. For fractures in the cervical region when the deformity is persistent, operative procedures may be necessary; these have already been referred to in connection with simple dislocation (see p, 282) and consist essentially in the removal of any obstacle to reduction such as the upper articular processes of the vertebra below the fracture. In fractures below the cervical region, however, reduction must usually be effected by manipulation, and on the whole it is best to employ an aneesthetic, particularly in muscular or highly sensitive patients. An- aesthesia must be very gradual and the greatest care must be taken to see that the patient does not struggle during the initial stages. When the patient is fully ancesthetised, extension must be employed with the greatest caution by from four to six assistants (see p. 286). The extension should be gradual and equable and should be made without lifting the patient from the horizontal position. The surgeon meanwhile observes the result on the fracture and helps to manipulate the bones into position. Immobilisation.—When reduction has been effected, an attempt must be made to fix the fracture, either by the application of a plaster of Paris jacket or by the use of extension and counter-extension with weights and pulleys. In muscular subjects it is well to employ both methods in combination, at first at any rate. The weight employed varies with the muscularity of the patient; usually from six to eight pounds must be used for each leg. Counter-extension is perhaps best effected by fastening a broad' bandage around the chest and fixing it to the head of the bed. The greatest care must however be taken in employing extension lest sloughing of the skin occur from the defective trophic condition; the apparatus must be frequently examined to see that this does not happen. It is well to employ a plaster of Paris jacket in addition to extension ; this is especially useful in fractures of the lower dorsal region. A large sheet of boracic lint is first slipped around the body to keep the plaster from contact with the skin, and then a large many-tailed bandage of two thicknesses of house flannel impregnated with plaster, as for Croft's splints (see Part III., p. 14), is rapidly slipped beneath the patient and the ends brought round the trunk in the usual way. Extra plaster may be rubbed over the bandage and thus the fracture may be fixed without unnecessary disturbance. When the fracture is higher up in the dorsal region, a retentive apparatus of this kind is of extremely doubtful utility because of its