301 SPINA BIFIDA. Osteoplastic procedures.—\Vhenever possible, an attempt should be made to repair the defect in the bone; in newly-born children such a procedure is of course out of the question because in them it is essential that the operation should be performed as quickly as possible. At a later date however, when the child can bear a more prolonged operation, the operation is of considerable value. ^V'hen there are portions of the laminae remaining on each side, attempts have been made to close in the opening by dividing the attachment of the laminte to the articular processes and pedicles of the vertebrae with a chisel, thus allowing the fragments to be pulled inwards over the sutured sac wall. In another method, which has been carried out in the sacral region, the soft tissues are peeled off the side of the sacrum for some little distance and then a thin layer of the bone with the periosteum attached to it is chiselled up on each side and left attached at the edge of the defect. This plate of bone is then bent over and laid over the gap. It has been suggested that a similar procedure might be carried out in the dorsal region by raising a portion of bone and periosteum from the ribs. This is left attached at its inner end, while the outer is pushed through a slit in the spinal muscles and brought over the canal; this however is only a suggestion and we cannot say whether it would work in practice. Success has however been obtained in several instances by bone-grafting, the bones employed being either the scapula or the skull bones of rabbits. The scapula, divested of its muscles, forms a very satisfactory plate between the skin and the sac, and has succeeded in more than one instance. The exact methods of grafting bones from animals, including the preparation of the animal and so forth, have already been described in Part III., p. 178. When an animal is not available, small portions of decalcified bone may be placed over the surface beneath the skin, but as a rule, beyond leading to a little extra thickening in the scar, this does not give rise to any actual bone development. 2. Cases in which the sac is partly membra?ioiis and contains nerve elements.— In these cases the operation differs from the above in several important particulars. The centre of the sac is usually covered by membrane, and any attempt at a flap is out of the question. Hence the thin portion of the sac should be enclosed by an elliptical incision; the further steps for the isolation of the sac are the same as in the preceding group of cases. The next point is to open the sac and separate the nerve structures; for this purpose a small incision is first made, and through it the cavity is inspected and the distribution of the nerves noted. The incision is then enlarged until the sac is laid freely open, and it is an important point to remember not to make this incision in the middle line. There are two objects in avoiding the middle line; in the first place the cord if present will escape damage, and in the second place the line of suture of the sac will not correspond to that of the skin.