CHAPTER XXVIII. TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF THE SPINE. Tuberculous disease of the vertebrae is the most common tuberculous bone disease in children, occurring in about 23 per cent, of all cases of tuberculous disease of bones and joints. The majority of cases commence before the age of ten, the favourite seat of the disease being the dorsal vertebras from the middle downwards; after them come the upper lumbar and then the upper cervical vertebra. SEATS.—The disease may commence either in the body of the vertebra or in one of its processes; it is most common in the body of the vertebra, and what we generally speak of as tuberculous spinal disease is disease of the body. In the body of the vertebra it may commence either in the interior of the bone or on the surface, and, commencing in the interior, it .may present the two usual forms, namely soft deposits and sequestra. Superficial caries.—On the surface of the bone the disease begins in the periosteum, or at any rate very soon involves it, and spreads along the surface of the vertebra for a considerable distance, causing more or less extensive superficial caries. As this extends from one vertebra to another, it spreads in along the intervertebral discs and destroys them, so that there may be superficial erosion of a number of vertebrae and want of continuity between the bodies owing to the destruction of the discs. Hence the curvature in these cases is usually gradual and of considerable extent; it is increased by absorption of the upper and lower surfaces of the adjacent bodies. This form of the disease occurs more especially in adults and is often associated with abscess; if it be present alone there may be no curvature in the first instance or only a gradual bend resulting from the loss of a number of intervertebral cartilages. This superficial caries may either occur as a primary disease, or may be secondary to a deposit in the substance of the bone which has reached the surface. Osseous deposits.—The deposits in the interior of the bone usually commence near the intervertebral cartilages, but not actually in connection with them, and rarely affect more than one or two vertebrte. They