THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 128 suitably moulded apparatus, designed to keep the limb straight, should be •vvorn for a long time, sometimes for many years. Excision.—Our present knowledge teaches that the synovial membrane must be removed in this operation with as much care and completeness as in arthrectomy. In addition, however, the ends of the bones are sawn off, and all the cartilage-covered surface is freely removed, so that the operation is shortened, and the chance of leaving disease behind is diminished. The operation will be described in detail when we speak ■of excisions of the individual joints ; here it will be sufficient to discuss the relative value of the two operations, and the points which will deter- mine our choice. The choice between artlirectomy and excisiofi.—-The first point of importance is ihe relative dattger of the two operations. The chief risks arise from shock and loss of blood, but these are nearly equal in the two cases. A further risk, namely, the possibility of dissenmiation of the disease through- out the body, is possibly somewhat greater in arthrectomy than in excision ; it is certainly greatly increased if scraping be employed in place of clean cutting. There is, however, not a sufficient preponderance of danger in one operation over the other to influence our choice. A second point is the chance of successfully eradicating the disease. It must be admitted that recurrence is less likely to occur after a properly performed excision than after an arthrectomy; in the latter it is always difficult to be sure that the disease is entirely removed from the margins of the cartilages, as small fragments of synovial membrane containing tuberculous tissue may be readily overlooked in this situation, and also in the recesses of the joint, such as the inter-condyloid notch in the knee, the olecranon fossa and the neighbourhood of the orbicular ligament in the elbow, etc. In an excision these parts are effectually cut away. Deposits in the bone are also more likely to be overlooked in arthrectomy than in excision, although even in the latter operation they may occasionally be missed. Nevertheless, experience shows that the greater the care with which the operation is done, the better is the result, and when arthrectomy can be performed, it is on the whole a very satisfactory operation. The third point for consideration is the ultimate utility of the limb. When the cartilages are left intact, bony anchylosis after arthrectomy will not occur, and a certain amount of movement will sometimes be retained, especially if the joint has not been kept at rest too long. In the case of the upper extremity and in the ankle and the hip this is a matter of considerable importance; in the knee on the other hand it is seldom that a satisfactory movable joint can be obtained, and no doubt the joint left after arthrectomy is weaker and more apt to become badly flexed than is the firm anchylosed one obtained by excision. In the latter operation the after-mobility depends in most cases on the amount of passive movement employed, and a perfectly firm joint can of course be obtained when desired.