234 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. The inner incision commences just over the anterior border of the tibia, runs down in front of the internal malleolus and curves somewhat inwards on the foot towards the internal cuneiform bone. On the outer side, the incision runs from the front of the fibula, in front of the external malle- olus, forwards on to the foot, curving slightly to about the base of the fourth metatarsal. The incisions are deepened until the capsule of the ankle is exposed. The soft parts are carefully raised from the front of the joint with a periosteum detacher, which is gradually insinuated from one wound to the other, between the capsule and the parts over it. Then, by pushing the periosteum detacher forcibly upwards and downwards, the whole bridge of soft parts, containing the tendons and the anterior tibial vessels and nerves, can be lifted up so as to expose the entire anterior portion of the capsule from its connection with the tibia above^to the astragalus below. The soft parts are then similarly separated from the capsule backwards from each incision, and the structures are raised from the malleoli. The entire anterior and anterolateral areas of the capsule are thus separated from the structures over them, and the attachments of the former to the lower end of the tibia, the malleoli, and the tarsus may be cut through with a knife or scissors, and the whole synovial membrane gradually removed in one piece, the edges of the articular cartilage being shaved away with a knife. The interior of the joint is thus exposed and its condition can be examined. The lateral ligaments are now divided, and the next step in the operation is to remove the astragalus. The inner incision is fully retracted, the astragalo-scaphoid articulation is defined and its ligaments divided. The lateral connections of the astragalus with the os calcis are severed, when it is easy, by everting the foot and pushing up the astragalus, to in- sinuate the knife beneath the bone and to divide the calcaneo-astragaloid ligament. The astragalus is now only held at its posterior part by the sheath of the flexor longus hallucis which runs in its groove ; this is cleared and the astragalus is removed. The interior of the joint can now be thoroughly inspected. The remains of the synovial membrane over the lateral and posterior aspects of the joint are gradually detached from the .tissues superficial to them with a blunt dissector and the finger, and are divided at their attachment to the tibia and fibula. The tendon of the flexor longus hallucis gives rise to some difficulty, but by pulling the foot downwards from the leg it can easily be seen and avoided. When the entire synovial membrane has thus been removed, the lower ends of the bones should be examined; these may be protruded through either wound and can be methodically examined and anything suspicious removed (see Fig. 60). In any case, the edge of the cartilage to which the synovial membrane was attached should be shaved off cleanly all round with a knife. Any soft or loose portions of cartilage should be