348 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE. with mattrasses costs from 15s. to 20s. and is a most valuable one; in private practice the boxes can be made more elegant by having the sides of strong wicker-work, the bottom remaining wood. Fig. 134.—Method of Ahplication of Phelps's Box. The child lies upon suitable firm cushions made to fit the splint; other similar ones are inserted between the sides of the splint and the body. The legs are kept in their respective troughs by bandages, the thor.ix is encircled by a bread towel or folded sheet over the splint. I'he sketch shows the head fastened to the end of the splint by a headstall, and the child's weight allowed to tell upon it by raising that end of the splint. 'J'his produces moderate extension which is most useful in cases of disease high up. If more powerful extension be required, it can be obtained either by attaching strong india-rubber door-springs on either side of the head of the splint, in place of the buckle shown in the figure, or a cord and pulley as in Fig. 132. Double Thomas's Splint.—An apparatus in some ways more convenient but by no means so efficient is a double Thomas's splint, provided with pelvic bands and a head rest, the interval between the two upright bars from the buttocks upwards being filled in with strong canvas. Jackets.—When the child is practically well, a light poroplastic jacket worn for a few weeks gives him a feeling of security and prevents too sudden use of the spine, and is, therefore, of some advantage; but at an earlier stage, as a support for the spine in children, it is not only use- less, but in many cases positively harmful. In adults, when the disease is in the lumbar, dorso-lumbar, or the cervical region, it may be treated from the first with suitable spinal sup- ports, but it is much better, if possible, to employ absolute recumbency with double extension for the first three to six months. It is, however, unnecessary to confine the patient to bed for a longer period when the disease is in these situations. With perfect recumbency and extension, the inflammatory material will have become organised and to some extent ossified in a few months, and the pelvis gives a fairly efficient basis of