2l8 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. p. 248), and have pointed out the three lines of treatment that may be adopted, viz.:—(i) excision of the abscess wall; (2) incision of the abscess with removal of as much of the wall as possible; and (3) incision and scraping of the abscess, irrigation, and injection of iodoform emulsion witli subsequent suture of the wound. One of the first two methods may generally be adopted in the knee joint, the choice depending upon the size and situation of the abscess. When this is small and over one side of the joint—for example over the inner condyle—it may be quite possible to dissect out the abscess entire. In most cases, however, it is only possible to remove portions of the wall by clean cutting; the rest must be dealt with by scraping or otherwise. Treatment of the abscess.—A free incision should be made over the abscess, and its wall isolated from the surrounding tissues as completely as possible before it is opened; it will soon be seen whether it be possible to dissect out the wall entire or whether only a portion can be removed ; in the former case the dissection is proceeded with until the abscess is removed; in the latter, as much of the wall exposed is clipped away as can be done without excessive opening up of the parts. The cavity is then thoroughly washed out with a stream of 1-4000 sublimate solution run through a Barker's flushing spoon, and the portion of the wall remaining is scraped. If a free opening be made at first, the whole interior of the abscess can be seen and the wall systematically scraped. The deeper parts of the abscess must be examined both by inspection and with a probe, for it must be remembered that these abscesses may originate either in the synovial membrane or in connection with an osseous deposit reaching the surface outside the joint; in the latter case the probe will in all probability pass through a hole in the outer shell of the bone into the interior of the deposit. If this be the case, the compact tissue .should be gouged or chiselled away and the deposit thoroughly scooped out, along with a portion of the healthy bone around it. When the abscess is connected with the synovial membrane and does not open into the joint, it is as well not to establish a communication with the articular cavity. The wound must next be thoroughly sponged out, and as much iodo- form emulsion (see p. 120) as possible is left in; the skin is sutured, pressure is applied to bring the walls of the abscess together, and the limb is put up on a suitable splint. The wound should heal by finst intention. Should serum collect in the cavity, it must be let out and the cavity again scraped. Even though there be disease in the joint, the majority of these abscesses will heal satisfactorily after two or three scrapings; the surgeon can then decide whether further operative treatment for the joint disease is necessary or whether expectant treatment should be persisted in. The decision will depend largely upon the condition of the joint; should this be similar to that described in the latter part of the second stage, an arthrectomy should be done after the abscess has entirely or almost entirely healed.