THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 122 the joint can be reached from the posterior border of the great trochanter. To inject the knee, the needle should be entered on each side of the patella and also in the siipra-patellar pouch above it. Bier's method.—This method, by which venous congestion of the joint is produced, has been much employed either alone or in combination with the iodoform and glycerine injections just referred to, and some surgeons have reported very good results from its use. Its object is to produce congestion of the parts and so to lead to the formation of fibrous tissue around the tuberculous area which will encapsule it and thus prevent its spread. We cannot say that we think this method one of very wide application, although it may well be employed for a time in combination with the iodoform injections. It can only be used advan- tageously for the joints below the hip and the shoulder. The limb is first firmly bandaged from below upwards to within a few inches of the affected joint. Then an indiarubber bandage is wound over a boracic bandage around the limb above the joint sufficiently tightly to interrupt the venous circulation and to cause a distinct dull red dis- coloration of the skin. This congestion is maintained as long as possible; generally it may be kept up for from 14 to 18 hours out of the 24; when the bandage is removed, elastic pressure should be applied over the joint itself, so as to get rid of the resulting oedema. The site of the pressure must be varied from time to time so as to avoid ulceration of the skin. The method may be continued for several weeks, in fact, as long as good results are produced by it. When chronic abscesses are present they should, when no further operative procedure is deemed advisable, be opened, washed out and treated in the manner already described for chronic abscess (see Part I., p. 247). When septic sinuses are present and no more radical measures are to be employed, they should be opened up, scraped out and stuffed with iodoform gauze. Operative measures.—The operative measures called for in cases of tuberculous joint disease are : i. Arthredomy, or removal of the diseased tissues without more of the healthy structures around than is absolutely necessary. 2. Excision, consisting in the removal of all the diseased tissues and certain definite portions of the ends of the bones. 3. Amputation, by which the limb is removed well above the limit of the disease. Both expectant and operative measures may be combined in many instances; when for instance an abscess is present, it may be washed out, injected with iodoform and glycerine, stitched up and the limb put on a splint. Again, sinuses may be thoroughly opened up, cleared out and stuffed with iodoform gauze, after which the limb is similarly immobilised. Indications for operation.—The following are the chief points in determining whether expectant treatment or operative measures should be employed.