THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. A B Fig. 46. —SUB-TROCHANTERIC OSTEOTOMV OF THE Fkmur for old Hip Disease. The simple linear division of the bone at right angles to its long axis is seen in^. 5 shows the gap produced when the deformity is cor- rected ; the arrow indicates that the shaft of the bone requires to be rotated on its long axis to correct the inward rotation. method. After the limb has been got into position, an extension of three or four pounds should be employed in the direction which it is desired that the limb should finally occupy. Besides thi.s, the arrangement described on p. 171 for preventing rotation should also be employed. A Liston's long splint should be fastened to the sound side, so as to prevent the patient from sitting up, and the divided mattrass, already described (see p. 171), should be employed. The patient should be kept in this position until union has occurred, which will generally be in about six weeks, after which he may be fitted with a Thomas's splint bent to correspond to the amount of abduction present; he may then get about on crutches. In about three months from this time he may be provided with a high boot on the affected side and allowed to walk without crutches. When the deformity is very great, and when it is evidently impossible to remedy it by taking out a wedge, and particularly when the disease is still progressing, excision of the joint will probably provide a better result. This excision should be by the anterior method (see p. 187), and, after it has been performed, the adductors should be divided and the limb placed in proper position; the subsequent treatment is identical with that described (see p. 189). Here, however, the patient should not be allowed to bear any weight upon the limb for at least a year after the operation. Many surgeons allow the patient to walk after about six weeks, but this Only stretches the fibrous union in the deeper part of the wound, so that the upper end of the bone slides about freely when the patient bears weight upon the limb; the consequence is that the gait very closely resembles that of congenital dislocation. On the other hand, if the limb be kept fixed in a properly applied Thomas's splint for a prolonged period, the fibrous union becomes very firm and there is no undue mobility. The chief objection urged against this prolonged treatment is the risk of producing anchylosis; even should this happen, the result will be quite satisfactory, and a very strong limb will result; but in most cases it can be entirely obviated by employing passive movement once or twice a week, carried out, however, only through a limited range, because there should be no desire to obtain free movement. At this stage of the disease ca.ses are sometimes met with in which