THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 136 because the large raw surfaces left after the operation might be exposed to serious septic inflammation by infection from the sinus. At the same time we have found, as a matter of experience, that if care be taken to scrape and disinfect these sinuses with undiluted carbolic acid before commencing the operation, and then to dissect them out along with the rest of the tuberculous tissue, the chances of sepsis are very slight, particularly if the wound be afterwards sponged over with undiluted carbolic acid, and a very satisfactory result can be obtained. Therefore, contrary to our original opinion, we now hold that the presence of septic sinuses in children is no contra-indication to arthrectomy. With regard to the choice between excision and amputation, that will depend upon the number of sinuses, on the amount of sepsis present, on the general condition of the patient, and on the presence or absence of tuberculous disease elsewhere. In all cases when the patient is unlikely to stand a prolonged operation, excision is of course out of the question, for the removal of the septic sinuses adds considerably to the length of the operation, and consequently increases the shock and loss of blood. 8. Cases accompanied by anchylosis and deformity with, or without sinuses.—These cases occur when the disease has been neglected, or where splints have either not been applied or have only been imperfectly used. The limb may be quite useless from mal position, and the treatment of this complication will depend very much upon the stage at which the disease has arrived, for the case may come under notice either while the disease is still active, or after it has completely subsided and only the deformity is left. W/ien the disease is still active and there is marked deformity, an attempt may be made either to restore the limb to its proper position by mechanical means, or operative measures may be employed. In the early stages, when the deformity is comparatively slight, it is quite justifiable to attempt to restore the position of the limb by the employment of suitable splints or other apparatus, but in doing this, great care must be taken to rectify the mal-position extremely gradually, and not to employ any force. Cases are not at all infrequently met with where the deformity has been forcibly reduced as a preliminary to further treatment. The result very commonly is that marked exacerbation occurs, and, instead of pursuing a favourable course, the disease passes rapidly on to disorganisation of the joint. Any mechanical attempts to restore the position of the limb during the active stage must therefore be made very gradually and gently, and much can usually be done either by allowing the weight of the limb itself to tell—as is done by Thomas's splint in flexion of the hip joint—or by the employment of very gentle extension either by weights or by elastic bands. When, however, the disease is more active, there is considerable risk in attempting to restore the limb to its proper position by this means, and under these circumstances the question of operative interference must be