305 KYPHOSIS. In adult life.—Kyphosis is uncommon later in life, but may be met with at all ages. In the adult it is generally due to the habitual adoption of a faulty position, such for instance as that assumed by some bicyclists. At a more advanced age the condition may result from senile degeneration ; the spinal muscles lose their tone, and the vertebral column becomes bowed forwards in consequence. This is of course a part of general debility, and calls for no special treatment. Kyphosis may also complicate various general diseases, of which the most typical are osteo-arthritis and osteo-malacia. It also commonly occurs in the rare disease known as osteitis deformans, and is present in some forms of paralysis, in which it is due to atrophy of the erectors of the spine. TREATMENT.—/// infants this is very simple. It is of the first importance that strict instructions should be given for the child always to be carried in the horizontal position, and never to be sat up in the nurse's arms. Any assumption of the upright position will favour the bending forward of the head, which, in a weakly subject, will lead to bowing of the spine and this condition of kyphosis. With an intelligent nurse and in the children of the well-to-do it is easy to have this order properly carried out, and no apparatus of any kind need be employed. In hospital patients, however, where the infant may be nursed by a number of people and is often neglected, it is well to insist that the child shall be carried about on some form of basket-lid or tray, upon which it lies always in a horizontal position. Suitable wickerwork trays, appropriately padded, have been designed for the purpose, and are very suitable and inexpensive. Where this cannot be afforded, a basket-lid or an ironing-board padded with a folded blanket answers the purpose per- fectly well. In children who are approaching the end of the first year of life, and are therefore beginning to sit up and crawl about, the maintenance of the horizontal position is not quite so easy as in young infants ; in them it is well, while enjoining the maintenance of the horizontal position as much as possible, to apply some light spinal support which will mechanically prevent the bending forwards of the vertebral column. For this purpose we are in the habit of moulding a sheet of guttapercha, leather, or poroplastic felt of appropriate size over the sides and back of the thorax, and fixing it above and below by bands of webbing passing across the front of the shoulders and the upper parts of the thighs, steadying the whole by a firm bandage. The child is thus provided with a light but stiff support which will counteract any*tendency of the spine to assume the bent position. The child may be allowed to sit up and crawl about with comparative freedom wearing this apparatus. The general health must receive careful attention. If rickets be present, the measures appropriate for that affection (see Part III., p. 207) must be adopted. Cod-liver oil and iron administered internally are of consider- PT. IV. u