146 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. recover the use of the limb. The following may be taken as the general outline of the treatment; modifications may of course be necessary to suit individual cases. The first and most essential step is to isolate the patient in charge of a suitable nurse. Although not absolutely necessary in all cases, this is of the highest importance to success and quite indispensable in the worst forms. The patient should be removed from her home and not allowed to see relatives or friends without express permission. In bad cases the surgeon will be wise to refuse the case except upon this understanding. When the hysterical condition is not very marked, some relaxation of this rule may be permitted, but great care must be exercised lest the primary object of the plan—viz. the abolition of the injudicious sympathy with which nearly all these patients are surrounded—be thereby defeated. For the first two or three weeks the patie?it should be cofifined to bed, even though the joint affected be in the upper extremity, and should not be allowed to sit up, to read, or even to feed herself; as the general condition improves, the patient may be allowed to sit up and finally to get about. Drugs, especially narcotics, should be avoided; the massage and the feeding soon render them quite unnecessary, the patient rapidly losing her pain and sleeping well. The massage should be done by a specially trained masseuse, and not by the nurse in charge of the patient; she has enough to do with her ordinary duties, and is not likely to be able to stand the fatigue that the systematic rubbing entails. This rubbing consists mainly in firmly pinching and kneading the skin and the muscles of the entire body, working upwards from the extremities, and aims at improving the circulation gene- rally and producing those widespread tissue-changes which it is the object of the feeding to repair. The skin is anointed with oil previous to the manipulations, and the muscles operated upon must be as fully relaxed as possible. Specially vigorous manipulations are directed to the joint affected, and passive movements of all the joints in the body should be carried out. At first the rubbing should be done for about twenty minutes once daily, but it should be steadily increased, until, at the end of a week or so, it occupies an hour and a half at a sitting, and is done twice a day. At first it causes great exhaustion and some pain; soon, however, it becomes very grateful and soothing. The use of the Faradic current may be most usefully combined with the rubbing. It should be applied to the entire body, but chiefly to the muscles in the neighbourhood of the affected joint. The two electrodes, well wetted and held about four inches apart, are gently and firmly moved over each muscle in turn, and a current strong enough to cause vigorous contraction is employed. This is done for about half an hour twice a day just before the massage. The diet is, however, the chief part of the treatment. The patient is first placed upon a purely milk diet for two or three days. The milk is given at intervals of three hours, at first in quantities of three or four mmmsaBBSsasasm