INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. 95 cartilages becomes inflamed; the cartilages themselves partly soften and partly exfoliate; whilst the ligaments of the joint become swollen and softened, and before very long the entire articulation becomes completely disorganised and the bones are dislocated by muscular action. Results.—There is a very considerable risk of a fatal result, which is generally caused by some form of septic disease, such as septicaemia or pycemia. There may be the formation of abscesses around the joint and deformity of the limb due to partial dislocation of the articular surfaces from the pull of strong muscles which are no longer opposed by the liga- ments. At a later period, when the affection is subsiding, the opposed surfaces of the joint become adherent, the synovial pouches being obliterated by the formation of firm fibrous adhesions, whilst fibrous tissue forms between the cartilaginous surfaces of the bones, or, should the cartilages have been entirely destroyed, actual bony union between the opposing joint surfaces may take place. Treatment.—The treatment of acute suppurative arthritis has practically already been described in detail in speaking of the treatment of septic wounds of joints (see p. 87), and also to a certain extent in dealing with the treatment of acute epiphysitis (see Part III., p. 179). The first point that the surgeon has to decide is whether an attempt should be made to save the limb; this depends upon the constitution of the patient and upon the severity of the local condition. The point of the greatest importance as regards the general condition is whether the patient is vigorous and young, and whether marked general depression or rigors have occurred. The points of chief importance in the local condition are the severity of the inflammation, the presence or absence of abscesses around the joint, and the amount of pain from which the patient suffers. When an attempt is made to save the limb, the first essential is to provide free exit for the pus. The patient should be fully anaesthetised and the skin thoroughly disinfected. Free incisions must then be made into the joint in such situations as to provide for efficient drainage of all parts of the articulation. These incisions must be very free, for it is quite certain that, unless the joint be effectually drained, amputation will be absolutely necessary. No hesitation need be felt about making these incisions, for anchylosis will occur in any case, and large incisions will therefore not interfere with the ultimate usefulness of the limb, while they may make all the difference to the possibility of retaining the limb or of actually saving the patient's life. When the suppuration is in the knee joint, for example, we make long vertical incisions on each side of the patella, extending from the top of the synovial pouch above to the border of the tibia below; and besides these, openings are also made at the side and back of the joint so as to drain the posterior part of the cavity. These lateral and posterior incisions are best made by introducing a pair of stout dressing forceps through the wounds on either side of the patella, and pushing them through the