168 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. COURSE.—When the disease commences in the bone it follows the course already fully described (see Part III., p. 196). Generally the tuber- culous deposit establishes a communication with the joint, and leads to general infection of the synovial membrane ; it may, however, reach the surface outside the synovial membrane and give rise to an abscess which does not communicate with the joint. This is most common with the primary deposits in the femur in the immediate neighbourhood of the trochanter. When the disease is in the acetabulum, the deposit not only infects the joint, but, owing to the thinness of the bone, it generally gives rise to thickening of the periosteum inside the pelvis, often followed by a chronic abscess. Enlargement of the acetalmhim.—Whether the case be one of primary bone or synovial disease, the history is much as follows. If the affection be left untreated, there is tonic spasm of the muscles surrounding the joint, which causes the head of the femur to press firmly against the upper and back part of the acetabulum. This leads to absorption of that part of the inflamed head of the femur and the acetabulum which are in contact, so that the latter cavity becomes considerably enlarged in the upward and backward direction. Fresh bone is, however, formed beyond the area of absorption, so that there is an imperfect new rim provided to the cavity. This enlargement goes on until the acetabulum loses its round shape and becomes so much elongated that the head of the bone is drawn up on the pelvis, although it still retains its connection with the acetabular cavity. This is the common cause of the condition usually spoken of clinically as "dislocation" in hip disease, and is not a true dislocation at all. Dislocation.—True dislocation is of very rare occurrence in this affec- tion. It may, however, happen, especially in the earlier stages, from destruction of the ligamentum teres and filling up of the acetabular cavity by new tissue. This pushes the head of the bone out of place, when some sudden movement brings about the displacement. The head of the bone, however, does not follow the course of the true traumatic dislocation ; it simply slips upwards either backwards or forwards. Not infrequently it passes forwards beneath the anterior superior iliac spine. Sometimes the dislocation is only partial, the head of the bone being caught on the margin of the acetabulum, in which case a deep groove may be made on the head by the rim of the acetabular cavity. Abscess.—Chronic abscess is very common ; its most common seat is in front of the trochanter, close to the insertion of the tensor vaginje femoris, and less frequently about the gluteal fold. Sometimes the abscess may point at the upper and inner part of the thigh close to the perineum, and in rare cases abscesses forming in front of the joint may burrow upwards beneath Poupart's ligament, occupy the iliac fossa, and give rise to one of the forms of pelvic abscess. This last method in which the abscess may spread should be remembered, because it is very common to assume that