SCOLIOSIS. 319 presents considerable difficulty owing to the impossibility of insisting upon that vigorous outdoor life, which it is comparatively easy to secure for younger patients. The }:;e?ieral indications for treatment are much the same as those already given for the preceding group of cases. Any mechanical or other ascertainable cause must be removed, and the general health must be attended to ; menstrual irregularities, antemia or constipation, any or all of which are frequently present, must be vigorously treated; careful personal hygiene should be insisted upon and the patient compelled to take regular exercise, to avoid late hours and hot ill-ventilated rooms, and to take simple, regular and easily digested meals. All ascertainable causes of fatigue should, if possible, be removed, and particular care must be directed to the avoidance of faulty positions, and the desks, chairs, music- stools and the like, that the patient uses, must be carefully inspected and made to suit the individual requirements of the case. A cold sponge bath in summer and a tepid one in winter should be taken on rising in the morning, and at the same time careful and persistent massage should be employed to the muscles of the back, in addition to the exercises which will presently be described. The treatment of the curvature itself will vary considerably according to the flexibility of the spine, that is to say, according to the amount of straightening that is produced when the patient is suspended. AVe may divide these cases into (a) those in which the curve can be obliterated, those in which the curve can be ameliorated but not entirely obliterated, and (y) those in which no alteration can be produced. (a) The cases in which the curve can be entirely obliterated.—Here the prognosis is good, as the muscular apparatus is probably alone at fault, and no bony or ligamentous changes have yet occurred in the spine. The object of the treatment therefore is to strengthen the back muscles, and thus to enable them to properly perform their function of keeping the spine erect. One of the most important factors in effecting this is the employment of suitable exercises. Exercises.—A multitude of different exercises have been designed for the treatment of these cases, many of which are extremely complicated. There are, however, no specific exercises for ihe cure of this condition, and the surgeon can easily design perfectly efficient ones for himself by observing accurately the changes that have occurred and the muscles that are at fault. All that is necessary then is to order movements which .shall bring into play the defective muscles, and which shall mechanically rectify the physical changes in the trunk. As, however, this requires con- siderable thought and some experience, we have deemed it advisable to append a number of exercises divided into different series, which are to be found in the admirable work of Dr. Percy Lewis,^ which he has kindly permitted us to quote. These are extremely simple, easy to perform, and ^ The Relief and Cure of Spinal Cuiva/ures. Dr. Percy G. Lewis, London, 1897.