l8l DISEASES OF THE HIP JOINT. connected with disease which is either primarily synovial or is situated in the neck of the femur, it is probably best, if the patient's condition be good and the limb be easily got into position, to treat the abscess alone and to defer the question of excision to a later period. If excision of the joint be done when a large abscess is present, the operation is prolonged and difficult, because, were the abscess simply opened and the joint excised, much disease would be left behind, and there would be great risk of infection of the bone section. On the other hand, removal of the abscess wall in combination with excision of the joint entails a prolonged operation with much loss of blood and great shock, and patients have died under these circumstances. Hence, we believe that in most cases it is best in the first instance to treat the abscess alone, and not to interfere with the actual joint disease for the time being at any rate. Treatment of the abscess alone.—The treatment of chronic abscess has already been fully described in Part I., p. 248. It consists essentially of complete removal of the abscess wall if possible; if not, as much of the wall as is accessible is removed, and the remainder treated by thorough scraping; failing either of these methods, scraping alone is employed, followed by washing out of the abscess and injection of iodoform and Fig 44.—Barker's Flushing Gouge. The instrument is hollowed and is connected by india rubber tubing with a reservoir of lotion, the flow of which is regulated by the sliding button seen on the upper surface of the figure. glycerine emulsion. In these hip abscesses the first plan is not feasible. The abscess goes down to the synovial membrane or the bone, and as a rule it is quite impossible to dissect it out. The second method, however, can generally be employed. It is done by making a very free incision over the abscess, which should not be opened until as much of its wall as possible has been isolated ; the abscess is then opened and the isolated portion of the wall is clipped away, and then, by means of Barker's flushing spoon (see Fig. 44), the abscess cavity is thoroughly cleared. The addition of flushing to the use of the sharp spoon, which is due to Mr. Barker, is a great safeguard against the risks of general infection which accompany scraping alone. As the material is scraped away, the rush of fluid through the instrument washes it out of the wound at once, and it is not therefore likely to be carried into the circulation. After the abscess has been scraped out, about an ounce of the ro per cent, emulsion of iodoform and glycerine is injected into the cavity, the wound stitched up without a drainage tube and antiseptic dressings applied. The whole essence of the treatment depends upon strict asepsis; should the wound become septic, good results cannot be expected from treatment of the abscess alone.