THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 274 Contrex^ville water, to increase the excretion of uric acid and urea. Gouty arthritis, however, practically comes under the care of the physician, and further details as to treatment should be sought in medical text-books. RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS.—This is very common, and all the joints of all the fingers may be involved. It may be associated with a similar condition in the larger joints. There is usually great deformity, the fingers being deflected towards the ulnar side, and the joints much enlarged from the outgrowth of fresh bone around the articular surfaces, by which the movements of the fingers are much hampered ; the joints are usually somewhat flexed. The condition is generally associated with considerable pain and marked exacerbations. Treatment.—This is very disappointing, as the disease is obstinate and generally ends in more or less crippling, in spite of any treatment that may be adopted. In the early stage the usual remedies already described for rheumatoid arthritis (see p. 151) should be had recourse to. In all elderly subjects, and especially those predisposed to rheumatoid arthritis, it is of the highest practical importance to remember that fixation of the fingers or joints of the upper extremity after injuries such as sprains, fractures, or dislocations is very apt to be followed by this form of disease. Hence the greatest care must be taken, whenever a fracture occurs in the arm, fore-arm, or hand, to leave the fingers free and to encourage active and passive movement from the very first, if it be possible to do so without interfering with the union. Even when splints must be applied to the fingers, they should be taken off daily, and the joints exer- cised and moved, so as to prevent adhesions and to hinder the onset of this crippling disease. These remarks apply perhaps more particularly to CoUes's fracture than to any other, as it is frequently followed by rheumatoid arthritis in the wrist and fingers if the undue immobilisation, which is so commonly practised, be persisted in. TUBERCULOUS DISEASE.—Tuberculous phalangeal joint disease is comparatively rare. The deposit much more frequently occurs in the shaft of the bone, as a tuberculous osteo-myelitis, which has already been described (see Part III., p. 197). Nevertheless, primary tuberculous arthritis may occur, or tuberculous osteo-myelitis may spread into and invade the joint. Treatment.—The treatment is the same as for tuberculous joint disease elsewhere. The parts are kept at rest with the fingers slightly bent, and this is best effected by putting the hand and affected finger into a silicate bandage and leaving the other fingers free to move. It is impor- tant to remember that it is not sufficient to fix the finger alone; the hand must also be fixed, and, when the case is one of infection of a metacarpo- phalangeal joint, the fixation should extend to the wrist joint also, as otherwise the flexor and extensor tendons keep up a certain amount of movement. When the disease is progressing in spite of treatment, operative measures