DISEASES OF THE KNEE JOINT. 213 the shortest computation, when expectant treatment is employed. Again, the patient may be the subject of tuberculous disease elsewhere, and the confinement necessary for the proper carrying out of the expectant treat- ment will be injurious to this; in both these cases, therefore, early excision is indicated. When, however, the patient can afford the time, and when he is otherwise perfectly healthy, expectant treatment should be employed. (2) Treatment of the second stage.—Here the affection is no longer confined to the synovial membrane, but is attacking the cartilages and the bone, and consequently there are symptoms produced by the articular osteitis. This stage of the disease may also come on suddenly from rupture of osseous deposits into the joint. Its characteristic features are great increase in the pain, and fixation of the joint from muscular contraction. There is also intense pain on the slightest movement, and starting pains at night. The treatment in this stage may be either expectant or operative; the former does not, however, offer the same prospects of success as in the pre- ceding stage. Nevertheless it is advisable to make a trial of it for six weeks or two months, when, if no improvement follows, operative measures may be resorted to. Expectant treatment.—Extension as a rule is required to overcome the pressure of the bony surfaces and to control the starting pains at night. The weight employed will depend upon the relief obtained; in children three or four pounds may be used to begin with and may be increased if necessary; in adults from six to eight pounds are generally called for at first, and this may also have to be increased. With extension it is necessary to combine absolute rest upon a splint, whilst injections of iodoform emulsion and the internal administration of guaiacol (see p. 115) are very useful. Operative treatment.—In most cases, however, operative treatment will be called for. In children this should be a?t arthrectomy, performed as described above; in this stage special care must be taken in inspecting the bones, so to avoid overlooking a primary osseous deposit, and to make sure of removing the whole of the affected surface. Should the cartilage be much destroyed and pitted, it is well not only to remove the whole of it, but also to shave off a thin layer of the bone beneath. This may be done by a knife, and not more than a quarter of an inch in depth need be taken. Under no circumstances should the ends of the bones be scraped, as this is very likely to force tuberculous tissue into the cancellous spaces and so to facilitate the spread of the disease. The after-treatment is the same as that already described (see p. 212). When the disease has reached this stage in adults, it is almost useless to hope for recovery without operation. As a matter of fact the results from excision in adults are so extremely good and are obtained so quickly and with such little risk that there seems no valid reason why excision