96 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. capsule and soft tissues, first at the sides of the joint, and afterwards at the back, and cutting down on the closed blades through the skin. The forceps are protruded through the openings in the skin, when the blades are forcibly separated and the soft tissues sufficiently separated to allow of the passage of a drainage tube. A large tube should be inserted on each Side, one end emerging from the incision beside the patella and the other through the opening over the condyle; besides these, tubes should be inserted through the counter-openings at the posterior aspect of the joint. It is well also to pass a long piece of tubing transversely beneath the quadriceps tendon, and to make the ends emerge on each side from the incisions beside the patella. In the other joints the position of the tubes will vary, but wherever possible they must be inserted at the most dependent points, as otherwise drainage will be defective. In the hip, for" example, it is well to cut down upon the joint by the anterior incision employed for excision of the hip (see Fig. 27); when the joint is opened, a pair of stout dressing forceps may be pushed through the posterior part of the capsule and made to protrude in the buttock where they are cut down upon, and through the aperture thus made a tube may be pulled in so as to drain the posterior part of the joint. In the ankle, an opening should be made in front of each malleolus and another behind the outer malleolus so as to drain the posterior part of the joint. In the elbow, the openings should be one on each side of the olecranon so as to drain the olecranon fossa, and others should be made in front of each condyle so as to drain the front of the joint. In the shoulder, the best drainage is obtained through the vertical incision usually employed for excision of the shoulder (see Chap. XXII.) reinforced by another just in front of the -posterior fold of the axilla which drains the posterior part of the capsule. In the wrist, proper drainage is very difficult to obtain, and can only be got by laying the joint freely open in several places, especially upon the posterior and inner aspect. After efficient drainage has been provided, continuous irrigation with warm boracic lotion, warm Condy's fluid (2 grains to the ounce), or a weak solution of sanitas, should be employed in the manner already described in speaking of septic wounds of joints (see p. 88); or the limb may be placed in a 7vater bath (see p. 89). We may repeat here the caution we have already given, namely, that the joint must on no account be washed out with an irritating antiseptic. The limb should be fixed upon a wire spUnt with the joint in such a position as will be most useful when anchylosis occurs. The splint should be changed as a rule every two or three days, and should be applied out- side the first few layers of gauze. Should it be impossible to employ either irrigation or the water bath, the ordinary cyanide gauze dressings, wrung out of warm boracic lotion should be applied round the limb and surrounded by a mackintosh so as to form an antiseptic fomentation. As the discharge