204 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OE JOINTS. deposit, namely a chronic inflammatory condition of the condyle or the presence of a tumour in it, render the operation justifiable, as in the former case the gouging of the bone appropriate for the removal of a sequestrum is the best treatment for the chronic inflammation, whilst in the latter case it reveals the presence of a tumour for which early and effective treatment may be undertaken. Hence there need be no hesitation about operating even if it be impossible to make an exact diagnosis, and, should the case be one of tuberculous deposit, the result may be very brilliant. In operating in these cases, particularly on the internal condyle, the limits of the synovial membrane must, be borne in mind. This structure extends more than halfway over the inner surface of the condyle, and there- fore, if an incision were made over the latter just along the edge of the articular cartilage, the synovial cavity would inevitably be opened and, should a tuberculous deposit or tumour be present, the knee joint would probably be infected from it. It is imperative therefore to expose the extreme upper limit of the condyle, which can be done by a curved incision with its convexity upwards at the junction of the condyle with the shaft (see Fig. 51). This skin flap is turned down and a vertical incision is made through the muscular fibres rather towards the back of the condyle.- When these have been separated with a rugine, the soft parts, and with them the capsule of the joint, are stripped down- wards and the surface of the bone is exposed, and may be gouged in a direction obliquely from above downwards and outwards without any danger of wounding the synovial membrane. The removal of the shell of compact bone should be very free so as to enable complete access to be gained to the interior. In a child there will be a risk of injuring the epiphyseal cartilage by making the incision as high as this, and therefore it is important not to remove much bone until the epiphyseal cartilage has been defined; it can then easily be avoided. After the compact tissue has been removed, a strong sharp spoon is generally sufficient to scoop out the cancellous tissue. Inspection will show whether the bone thus removed be inflamed or not; if so, the scooping should be carried on until the epiphysis has been partly cleared out, so as to make sure of finding the tuberculous deposit if it be present. The deposit must be thoroughly cleared out along with a layer of bone forming the wall surrounding it. The bleeding is then arrested by pressure, and it is well to insert into the cavity a piece of sponge saturated with undiluted carbolic acid and leave it in position for five minutes, so as to allow the acid to come into contact with the whole of the wall. Care must be taken in pushing in Fio. 51. — Incision for Exposing a Tuberculous Deposit in the Internal Condyle of the Feuuk.