125 TUBERCULOSIS. 6. The abscess may have burst and have left septic sinuses. The presence of these septic sinuses influences the operative treatment, not merely by rendering the disease more stubborn, but also by introducing the risk of various septic troubles; one of the radical operations already referred to will be therefore requisite. In some cases, in children, when only one or two sinuses are present and the joint is easily accessible, it may be justifiable to attempt a complete arthrectomy, guarding against infection by sponging the raw surfaces left with undiluted carbolic acid. In adults, also, excision may sometimes be attempted, provided the sinuses be few and the general condition of the patient good; the same precaution should be taken to disinfect the raw surfaces. In most cases in adults, however, especially when the sinuses are numerous, amputation is the best practice, and should be carried out wherever it is feasible. Choice of operation.—The important question as to which of the three radical operations—arthrectomy, excision or amputation—should be performed in any given case next comes up for consideration. Amputation.—Amputation may be dismissed in a few words, because no general rules can be made to apply to it. It is the least dangerous of the three radical operations and is accompanied by the least severe shock; in fact, nowadays no special danger attaches to it. Hence in weakly subjects who cannot stand a necessarily prolonged operation like an arthrectomy or an excision, but in whom some radical measure is never- theless essential, amputation is the best practice. Similarly, when there is phthisis present, or when the patient is going steadily down hill, amputation is better than either of the other procedures. It is often very remarkable to see the improvement that takes place in the condition of the patient and even in the condition of the lungs after amputation through healthy tissues well above the seat of the disease. Similarly, should there be amyloid degeneration of the kidneys or other organs, amputation is the least dangerous of the radical operations. In adults, and especially in old people in whom there is much suppuration about the joint, or in whom there are numerous septic sinuses present, amputation should be preferred in the majority of cases. In the young, when the disease is extensive, and particularly when the bone is widely affected, amputation may be preferable to excision in some joints, such as the knee. When bad recurrence takes place after excision or arthrectomy, amputation is generally necessary. Beyond this, no general rules can be laid down; the decision must be made in each case according to the local condition and the general state of the patient. Arthrectomy.—By arthrectomy is understood an operation in which the whole of the tuberculous tissue is removed with as little interference as possible with the surrounding healthy structures. In some cases this may merely mean a removal of the osseous deposit. Examples of this are found in cases where the deposit has not yet made its way into the joint and infected the synovial membrane. In other cases again it