DISLOCATIONS: GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. s Fracture complicating dislocation.—Generally speaking a good deal will depend upon whether the fracture is close to the joint or at some considerable distance from it. In the latter case the portion of bone between the fracture and the dislocation may be long enough to enable the surgeon to use it as a lever and to manipulate the dislocated end into position. When, however, the fracture occurs quite close to the joint, reduction of the dislocation by ordinary methods will be quite impossible. As we have already remarked in dealing with fractures, it is much better under these circumstances to at once cut down and replace the dislocated end of the bone in position and to wire, peg, or screw the fractured ends together in whatever way seems most suitable (see Part IIL, p. 39). Injury to vessels or nerves.—It not at all infrequently happens that large vessels are torn when dislocation takes place, and serious htemor- rhage may therefore occur into the limb, or a diffuse aneurysm may be produced. Similarly, nerves may be torn across, or there may be paralysis from direct pressure upon the nerves by the displaced end of the bone. These cases as a general rule must be treated in accordance with the principles laid down for injuries of vessels and nerves (see Part II.). This point will be specially referred to in connection with the individual joints in which complications of this kind most frequently occur. TREATMENT OF COMPOUND DISLOCATIONS. This accident is of considerable gravity, because wounds of joints, unless they can be kept aseptic, are among the most serious injuries that we are called upon to treat; suppuration in a healthy joint not only leads to complete disorganisation of the articulation itself, but also involves a very considerable risk of septicaemia and pytemia. In recent cases.—The treatment must therefore, above all things, be directed to an energetic attempt to get rid of any septic infection of the wound that may have occurred, and this in a recent case resembles very closely the treatment already recommended for a compound fracture, the steps of which it may be well to recapitulate. The skin for a considerable distance around the wound must be shaved and thoroughly disinfected (see Part III., p. 32). The wound should be opened up so that all the tissues about the joint are thoroughly exposed, and the soft parts should be scrubbed with a nail-brush and strong mixture,^ or, if very dirty, should be swabbed over with undiluted carbolic acid. The joint cavity and the articular ends of the bone should be washed over with strong mixture, after which the joint should be thoroughly douched out with a 1-8000 sublimate solution, the object of which is to wash away the strong mixture from contact with the synovial membrane, and thus to avoid too 1 The "strong mixture" is a 1-20 watery solution of carbolic acid, containing in solution one five-hundreth part of corrosive sublimate.