DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. 15 Among the rarest forms may be mentioned tlie sub-acromial dislocation, in which the head of the bone passes upwards into contact with the acromion, and the supra-acromial dislocation, in which it actually lodges above it. These last two forms are excessively rare, and, as the treatment is practically the same as for the other varieties, we need not refer to them further. DISPLACEMENT. —Sub-coracoid dislocation.—In this, the most common variety of dislocation, the head of the bone lies beneath the coracoid process, the upper arm being directed somewhat backwards and outwards so that the elbow is away from the side. The fore-arm is supinated, there is marked flattening of the shoulder, and the head of the bone can be made out in its new situation. Sub-clavicular dislocation.—The signs of this variety are usually those of the preceding one in an exaggerated degree; not uncommonly the coracoid process is fractured by the head of the humerus as it passes up- wards towards the clavicle. Sub-glenoid dislocation.—Here there is generally much pain from the pressure of the head of the bone upon the nerves, and from the stretching of the parts; the elbow projects markedly from the side, the arm is slightly elongated, and the head of the bone can be readily felt in the axilla. There may be absence of pulse at the wrist from pressure on the axillary artery, or a rapid oedema of the hand from pressure on the vein. Sub-spinous dislocation.—The arm is generally rotated inwards, is nearer to the side than in the other forms, and the long axis of the humerus is directed slightly forwards. TREATMENT OF SIMPLE DISLOCATIONS. Reduction should of course be effected as early as possible, and means must then be taken to retain the head of the humerus in the glenoid cavity. REDUCTION.—Reduction may be effected in one of two ways : either by manipulations, having for their object relaxation of the capsule and the muscles and the re-introduction of the head of the bone through the rent in the former; ox by traction, which brings the head of the bone down opposite the rent in the capsule through which it is made to re-enter the joint cavity. Whenever possible the patient should be put under a general an?esthetic. The pain of a dislocation is generally very severe, and by it the powerful mu.scles around the joint are kept in a state of such violent contraction that they often offer great resistance to reduction; when the patient is anaesthetised, on the other hand, manipulations, effected with the greatest ease, often suffice to replace the head of the bone. Indeed, it is not at all uncommon to find, in the ordinary sub-coracoid cases, that by the time the patient is fully under the an£esthetic, the dislocation has