212 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. the pulsation of the popliteal artery is a valuable guide in separating the posterior part of the capsule. The best splint for these cases is a trough of Gooch's splinting. This should be cut to the length of the leg as already described (see Part III., p. ii), and covered with a folded sheet over which is a large piece of mackintosh. Upon the mackintosh is placed a thick sheet of salicylic wool, whilst superficial to this, opposite the region that the knee will occupy, is laid a series of broad strips of cyanide gauze overlapping each other well—much as in a many-tailed bandage—so that, when the limb is laid flat upon the splint, these strips can be folded up one after the other around the knee. When this is done, suitable pads are carefully inserted and the splint fastened on. The apparatus is then placed upon a pillow so as to raise the limb slightly. After-treatment.—As a rule there is no need to disturb the limb for dressing. It may be left in the splint for six weeks, when the stitches are removed and a water-glass or some similar immovable apparatus is applied. In most cases, especially when the crucial and lateral ligaments have been divided, it is best not to try to obtain a movable joint; if movement be aimed at after arthrectomy at this early stage, union of the ligaments and shortening of the capsule do not occur satisfactorily, and there is a marked tendency for the knee to become flexed. In fact, the great difificulty is this tendency to flexion after operation, so that in a large number of cases it is advisable that the patient should wear a splint —either a Thomas's splint or an iron running down the back of the thigh and leg—for months or even years afterwards. There is no doubt that the tendency to flexion is greater after arthrectomy than after excision, though in young subjects even the latter operation may be followed by the same trouble. The results of a complete arthrectomy when carried out comparatively early in pure synovial disease are extremely satisfactory. The wound heals and there is no further trouble beyond the tendency to flexion just mentioned; the disease is thus markedly cut short and the patient quickly restored to health. In adults, however, arthrectomy does not, as a rule, seem to be such a satisfactory operation. It is generally necessary to divide the crucial and lateral ligaments and the result is bad, because, if a movable joint be desired, the probabilities are that it will be very unstable, whilst on the other hand, if the joint be stiff, the anchylosis is merely due to fibrous adhesions which are not very strong and may cause a good deal of pain by stretching. In adults, therefore, excision is pre- ferable in most cases because firm bony union can be obtained. We should, however, prefer to continue expectant treatment at this stage of the disease in adults, unless there were very special reasons for early operation. These reasons may be that time is a matter of great importance, and the patient, being the bread-winner of the family, cannot aff'ord to lie up and abstain from work for two or three years as is often necessary, even at