163 ANCHYLOSIS. to attempt to do too much at a time. If very extensive adhesions in a joint be broken down under an anaesthetic at one sitting, so that the limb can be moved in all directions, the result is generally an acute inflammation, which necessitates rest for so long that the adhesions re- form, and no real advantage is gained. It is therefore necessary to proceed cautiously, and only to break up the adhesions piecemeal. Massage and passive movement should first be employed, and it is of advantage to precede this by exposure of the limb to super-heated air in a Tallermann's or other similar apparatus (see p. 154). This apparently produces congestion of the part, so that the adhesions become softer and stretch more readily. With poor patients who cannot obtain a suitable apparatus, a somewhat similar result may be obtained by suspending the limb in a wire cage covered with a blanket and a mackintosh outside, and introducing beneath this the nozzle of a bronchitis kettle, and so steaming the joint freely, taking care that the steam does not play on the skin. As soon as it is evident that no further progress is being made—which will generally be in a week or ten days—an aneesthetic should be adminis- tered and the adhesions broken up. At the first sitting very little must be done; just a few of the adhesions should be broken through, and then another ten days or so devoted to massage and passive movement. At the end of that time, a little more may be done, and so on, until finally the joint can be freely moved in all its normal directions. Any ■swelling resulting from the manipulation may be treated by fomentations for a day or two, but massage consisting of gentle rubbing at first, gradually becoming more active, should be carried out from the first. An additional reason for breaking down these adhesions gradually, especially when anchylosis is accompanied with deformity, is that the struc- tures outside the joint are contracted, and, were the limb forcibly stretched at once, vessels and nerves might be ruptured and extensive damage done. On the other hand, by the cautious and slow method here described, the shortened structures may be gradually softened and stretched, all danger avoided, and a good result obtained even where there is considerable deformity. In connection with these cases it must never be forgotten that trouble has frequently resulted from attempts to move tuberculous joints, and that if fibrous tissue be forcibly broken up, the tuberculous disease is apt to be reproduced. It is not at all uncommon to meet with old tuberculous joints, where the patient has been to a bone-setter and the disease has been lighted up afresh. In anchylosis after tuber- culous disease, even when accompanied by deformity, it is usually best to allow the patient to grow up, and then to excise the joint, rather than to make an attempt to forcibly move it, even though the union only be fibrous. 4. Anchylosis due to the adhesion of muscles around the joint.—This may be met with in fractures, or when sequestra have been removed. It may be necessary here to detach the muscles or to divide them, but this condition has already been referred to (see Part III., p. 55).