105 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. treatment by iron and quinine, good hygienic conditions, nourishing food and a moderate amount of stimulants will be called for. When suppuration takes place, the treatment must follow the lines laid down for acute suppurative arthritis (see p. 96). The arthritis here, although of a suppurative character, is not usually very virulent or destructive, and it is not uncommon for an e.xcellent result to be obtained by drainage nlone. CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. CHRONIC SYNOVITIS.—By chronic synovitis is meant a chronic inflammation of the synovial membrane which may be accompanied by : (a) marked effusion into the joint, or (l>) thickening of the synovial membrane, which may assume a villous character. 1. Chronic synovitis with effusion.—This may follow an attack of acute synovitis or may be chronic from the first. In the latter case it may arise from a sprain or an injury to the joint, or it may commence without any apparent cause, and is then probably the result of some indefinite constitutional condition. More usually, however, it is due to some local cause, such as excessive use of the joint or, in the lower ex- tremity, to long standing or walking. It may also be associated with some changes within the joint, such as an injury to the cartilage, particularly when the joint is furnished with an inter-articular fibro-cartilage. It may also be due to a roughness of the synovial membrane, such as hypertrophied synovial fringes; or again it may be produced by a loose body in the joint. Whatever be the cause, the result is that the joint becomes markedly distended with a clear, limpid and serous fluid, whilst in many cases the synovial membrane remains practically normal. The distension of the joint is usually comparatively slow and remains stationary for a long time, so that in the early stages the patient continues to use the joint fairly freely, and only notices that it is slightly stiffer than the other. When rest and appropriate treatment are employed, the fluid will diminish or even dis- appear entirely, but, as soon as the joint is used again, there is apt to be a recurrence. When the effusion has lasted some time, laxity of the fibrous capsule and the ligaments of the joint results, so that ultimately the articulation may be altogether disabled. The affection is very chronic, and very difficult to get rid of; unless efficient treatment be brought to bear upon it, the result may be very serious. This is all the more likely to be the case because patients sufter so little that they are apt to neglect the affection, and this is particularly so in those who have to earn their living. It is not until the disability produced by the stretching of the ligaments is so great as to prevent the patient using the joint that he seeks advice. Treatment.—The points to be aimed at in the treatment of chronic