221 DISEASES OF THE KNEE JOINT. In an adult.—In an adult, however, in whom the union is firm and bony, the best treatment is to remove a ivedge from the region of the knee, so planned that the limb will come straight (see Fig. 56). The bones should be wired together afterwards and put up on a straight splint. This form of treatment should be limited to adults, because in children the epiphysis would certainly be interfered with and arrest of growth would ensue. RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS. This is very common in the knee. The characteristic deformities are flexion and outward rotation, and there is sometimes a certain amount of genu valgum. The symptoms have already been described (see p. 149). TREATMENT.—There is very little to add to what has already been said as to the treatment of this disease in general (see p. 151). Operative interference, such as gouging or drilling the condyles of the femur for excessive pain, or removal of osteophytes in the rare instances in which they interfere mechanically with the movements of the limb, may be called for. In speaking of the general treatment of osteo-arthritis, we referred to the question of excision of joints in the non-articular form of the disease. This procedure is more particularly suited for the joints of the upper extremity; when the knee is affected, it is of more doubtful value, mainly because of the risk of the other knee becoming affected later. When one knee is stiff, extra strain is thrown upon the opposite side, and it is not uncommon after excision for rheumatoid arthritis to find that the disease appears in other joints subjected to extra strain. How far this should contra-indicate the performance of excision of the knee must be judged of by the circumstances of each individual case. When the patient suffers greatly, and the other joints are free from any sign of the disease, it is probably better to be relieved of pain and to take the risk of the disease developing elsewhere. This risk may to some extent be avoided if the possibility of it be remembered and the patient instructed to lead a more or less invalid life, and on no account to over-strain the other joints; under these circumstances it is quite possible to escape any further development of the disease. The result of the operation will therefore be to make the patient much more comfortable. CHARCOT'S DISEASE. The knee is a joint frequently affected by this disease, the general principles for the treatment of which have already been laid down (see p. 141). The special points with regard to the knee are to aim at obtaining as much consolidation of the joint as possible, and, as that form of Charcot's disease accompanied by osteophytic outgrowth is not un-