CHAPTER XVI. RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS. This affection is by no means well understood, and it is extremely probable that under it are included a number of diseases that have not the same origin. This more especially applies to the form often spoken of as mon-articular or chronic rheumatoid arthritis. The disease may be acute, sub-acute, or chronic. ACUTE RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS is a fairly well-defined disease which occurs especially in young subjects, usually in females, and runs a more or less acute course. Causes.—Some authors consider that this affection bears some relation to rheumatism, some that it is due to an altered condition of the blood, some to reflex irritation, some again to a nerve disturbance, particularly disease of the anterior cornua, while latterly it has been ascribed to the action of micro-organisms. Bannatyne and Blaxall describe organisms met with in rheumatoid arthritis, and, although the matter is somewhat doubtful, it is possible that the disease may be due to this cause. Symptoms.—The affection may be preceded by pain of a neuralgic character. It usually begins as an acute affection of the smaller joints, particularly the fingers, which become swollen and hot; there may be pyrexia of the hectic type. The disease apparently begins in the synovial membrane and is accompanied by a varying amount of effusion, while softening and destruction of the cartilage, with erosion of the subjacent bone, sets in before long. There is generally some apparent thickening of the bone ends, but, judging from the results obtained by skiagrams, this seems to be due to swelling of the synovial membrane and the structures around the joint, accentuated by the muscular wasting. The disease is frequently accompanied by considerable antemia, and there is often some pigmentation of the skin. A very marked feature is the atrophy of the muscles of the affected limb, which is far too rapid to be accounted for by mere disuse. When the fingers are affected, the joints become spindle-shaped and the digits are deflected to the ulnar side.