SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS. 139 Pressure is often useful, and may be applied by means of Scott's dressing (see p. 119); it is also well to fasten the joint for a few days upon a suitable splint. When the fluid has disappeared, an eiastic Imndage applied over a mass of cotton wool or silk waste (see p. 119) should be substituted for the splint. When the effusion continues in spite of anti-syphilitic treatment and the application of local pressure, counter-irritation is advisable; this may be effected by a succession of blisters (see p. ti8). It is very rare to meet with adhesions in the joint, but, should they occur, they are easily overcome b)- massage. JOINT AFFECTIONS DURING THE TERTIARY STAGE. At this period there may be a deposit of gummatous material either in the synovial membrane or in the sub-synovial tissues. It is most common to find definite nodules or gummata, but occasionally there is a diffuse gummatous infiltration of a part or the whole of the synovial membrane. When left untreated, these gummata extend on the one hand towards the interior of the joint, and on the other towards the skin, so that finally the skin may give way and leave a typical tertiary syphilitic ulcer extending down to the joint, with which there may actually be a communication. This allows of septic infection, and acute arthritis results. In the rarer forms, marked by diffuse gummatous infiltration of the sub-synovial tissue, the joint becomes enlarged somewhat irregularly, and the synovial membrane is apparently thickened, so that it may be difficult to distinguish the condition from tuberculosis. The syphilitic thickening, however, is not so uniformly diffused over the whole joint as is the tuberculous lesion, and movement, although restricted, is unaccompanied by pain. Gummata may also be met with in the epiphyseal ends of the bone, and may open into the joint and cause swelling of the synovial membrane and effusion into the joint. In some very rare cases, moreover, the symptoms which accompany this communication with the joint are fairly acute, and are not at all unlike the result produced by the bursting of a tuberculous deposit into the joint (see p. 113). Treatment.—(a) General.—The most important point is of course to adopt the general treatment suitable for tertiary syphilis (see Part I., p. 235). Large doses of iodide of potassium, commencing with fifteen grains and rapidly going up to thirty or forty, should be administered thrice daily, and this may be advantageously combined with doses of half a drachm to a drachm of the liquor hydrarg. perchlor. (b) Local.—A certain amount of local treatment is also valuable. Benefit will be obtained by applying mercurial ointment over the joint, which may be done by rubbing half a drachm of the ointment well into the skin, and then putting on a mass of wool with an elastic bandage, so