DISEASES OF THE WRIST AND HAND. 273 of the first metacarpal bone to be drawn inwards against the rest of the metacarpus. In very bad cases the whole hand becomes rigid and useless. In some cases, however, a very satisfactory result is obtained. Amputation.—-Amputation is best done as close above the wrist as possible, and by means of the modified circular method already described (see Part III., p. 256). DISEASES OF THE PHALANGEAL JOINTS. SPRAINS.—Sprains of the fingers may be followed by considerable trouble unless great care be taken in the treatment. There is often partial or entire rupture of the lateral ligaments of the articulation, with pain in the joint, localised tenderness over the insertion of one of the ligaments, swelling and interference with movement. This condition may be very obstinate even in healthy patients, while, in those'who are predisposed to rheumatoid arthritis or tuberculous disease, it may be the starting point of these affections. Treatment.—The affected member should be immobilised, and pressure employed. The best plan is to apply Scott's dressing spread on lint around the joint, and then to fix this on firmly with rubber strapping; outside this a palmar splint of block-tin is applied. The splint should have a broad portion fitting the palm and reaching down to the metacarpo-phalangeal joints and as high up as the wrist; it is cut away opposite the thenar eminence so as to allow movement of the thumb. From the palmar portion a trough extends down for the reception of the affected finger. This splint should be kept on for ten days or a fortnight, after which passive movement and massage should be diligently employed. SYNOVITIS.—Acute synovitis may be the result of injury, and as a rule soon passes off. The chief trouble lies in the adhesions which are left behind. Chronic synovitis with effusion, corresponding to the hydrops articuli of the larger joints, is, however, of rare occurrence ; when it does occur, it is most frequently associated with the presence of loose bodies in the joint, which, in the case of the fingers, usually follows actual detachment of portions of cartilage or bone from violent dislocations or twists of the joint. The treatment of these conditions is similar to that already described for other joints (see p. 93), and presents nothing of importance. GOUTY ARTHRITIS.—This is one of the commonest diseases of the phalangeal joints, and is associated with the deposit of chalkstones in the neighbourhood of the articulation, accompanied by some difficulty in complete extension. The urates are deposited not only around the joint, but actually in the cartilages, leading to an alteration in shape, and accounting for the difficulty in movement. Treatment.—The essential point is the general treatment for gout— regulation of the diet, diminution in the amount of nitrogenous food, and the employment of suitable drugs and mineral waters such as lithia and PT. IV. s