THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 6 much irritation. The dislocation should then be reduced, and two or more drainage tubes of moderate size introduced into the joint at suitable spots. The edges of the wound should be brought together as far as possible, at any rate the portion of the wound made by the surgeon should be accu- rately stitched up, while a few stitches should be put in the remainder if the edges be not too severely bruised. If after the lapse of forty-eight hours there be no appearance of inflammation in the wound, no elevation of temperature or other sign of sepsis, the tubes may be taken out and the case then treated like an aseptic wound of a joint (see Chap. XL). The joint should be kept at rest upon a splint for the first three or four days, but, as soon as the drainage tube is removed, passive movements should be begun and the case treated much as if it were a simple dislocation. In long-standing' cases.—^Vhen a compound dislocation has occurred some time before the patient comes under observation, and when sepsis is already established, the condition is infinitely more serious. Under such circumstances it is hardly justifiable to think of reducing the dislocation ; to do so would be simply to produce a more or less closed cavity, into which free suppuration from the joint surfaces is taking place. In the majority of cases it will probably be safest either to excise the joint or to amputate the limb. When the patient is old and the septic symptoms are violent, amputation will be the better practice; but in young subjects, and particularly in those in whom the septic condition is not very acute, the removal of the articular ends of the dislocated bones will generally suftice to secure a good result. This will leave a cavity from which it is possible to obtain free drainage, and when this is established it may even be hoped—as, for instance, in the case of the elbow—to get a movable joint. After-treatment.—TMx-:, will be partly that of a septic wound and partly that of an excision. The cavity should be thoroughly drained, antiseptic dressings applied, so as to prevent the entrance of fresh septic material, and the limb put at rest upon a splint for a few days. As soon as the acute symptoms show signs of abating, passive movements should be begun and carried out as in ordinary cases of excision. TREATMENT OF UNREDUCED DISLOCATIONS. Dislocations that have remained unreduced for any length of time are very serious, because attempts at reduction upon the ordinary lines are likely to fail for various reasons. In the first place, after the ends of the bones have been displaced for any time they contract firm adhesions to sur- rounding structures, such as muscles, vessels, nerves, etc., and considerable force may actually fail to tear through these adhesions. ^Vhen the bone is adherent to vessels or nerves, attempts at reduction, even though made with quite a moderate degree of force, may tear through these structures, and give rise to the most disastrous consequences. Again, there are always