DISLOCATION OF THE SEMILUNAR CARTILAGES. 6/ is extended after being flexed there is a tendency for the cartilage to be pushed forward out of position. A point of considerable practical importance to the patient is that massage of the calf and thigh muscles should be employed from the first, to prevent the wasting that must otherwise result from the fixation of the knee. Unless this be done, the limb is very weak when the splint is left off, and its power is only slowly regained. This weakness may easily lead to a recurrence of the injury. (b) When the dislocation of the cartilage constantly recurs, either in spite of these precautions or because they have not been taken, the further treatment is a point of considerable importance. The dislocation will recur often after the most trivial injuries, the patient is in constant danger of falling and may thereby sustain serious injuries, whilst the usefulness of the limb is enormously diminished, and, in addition, there are frequent attacks of synovitis, for which the patient is compelled to He up. The choice lies between palliative and operative measures, and of these the latter are far preferable whenever the choice is left to the surgeon. Nothing but operation will prevent the recurrence of the dislocation; palliative measures should be employed only when the patient refuses operation, or when there is some constitutional condition contra-indicating its performance. Palliative measures.—Where no operation is employed, the patient should have the following instructions, especially when the dislocation affects the internal semilunar cartilage. Walking must be performed with the knee more or less stiff, and with the toes turned inwards ; the latter measure is important, because the dislocation generally recurs when the tibia is rotated outwards upon the femur. A splint which will impede flexion of the knee must be worn, and this of course involves giving up most athletic games. The elastic bandage or knee-cap which is sometimes ordered is quite useless. The best form of splint to prevent the flexion of the knee is a well-moulded lace-up leather or poroplastic splint, similar to that employed in recent cases. A variety of other apparatus has been devised; for example, it is common to find a kind of spring truss designed to effect constant pressure by a spring over the inner tuberosity of the tibia, and thus to keep the cartilage back in position. Apparatus of this kind, however, is entirely inefficient, and unless the patient consents to an operation he is condemned to more or less marked disability of the limb, which is likely to be permanent. Operative measures.—The operation for detached semilunar cartilage is, if carried out with careful antiseptic precautions, practically devoid of danger, and the results obtained from it are such as to abundantly justify the patient in submitting to it. An incision is made over the inner aspect of the knee with its convexity forwards, and reaching to the inner margin of the patella, commencing below about an inch below the upper edge of the tibia, and extending upwards as far as the adductor tubercle (see Fig. 29).