30 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. Even within the period mentioned, attempts at reduction must be carried out with extreme care, and somewhat on the following lines. The patient must be put fully under an anfesthetic, and the first step of the procedure should be not necessarily to reduce the dislocation but, by moving the limb in all directions, to break down adhesions which the head of the bone has contracted. This is done very cautiously at first, the limb being gradually made to move through a wider range. When apparently all the adhesions have been broken down, an attempt should be made, first of all by Kocher's method (see p. i6) to get the head of the bone back into position. As a rule this will not succeed, but it does good by loosening various adherent structures that oppose reduction. The method that will be most likely to succeed is that by traction, and traction at right angles to the trunk (see p. 21) should be tried in the first instance. Should this fail, an attempt may be made with the heel in the axilla (see p. 21). Should this not succeed, a cautious trial may be made by pulley extension, the scapula and upper part of the body being fixed by a round-towel encircling the chest, and then, while firm outward extension is made, the head of the bone may sometimes be manipulated into position, partly by the knee in the axilla and partly by rotating the arm, using the fore-arm as a lever. If pulleys be used, they should be attached by a skein of worsted to the arm above the elbow,^ and thus undue strain upon the ligaments of that joint is avoided; moreover, the traction can be more accurately directed than if the extension were made from the wrist, as the long axes of the fore-arm and the upper arm do not coincide. This attempt at reduction by pulley should be carried out with the greatest care, and should not be too long continued. If, after a fair trial of these methods, it be found that the head of the bone will not come into place, the question arises whether the patient should be left alone or whether anything further can be done. The surgeon may be justified in leaving matters alone when, from the head of the bone having formed a fresh socket, the arm has so regained its usefulness that the patient does not suffer any very serious incon- venience. This result is most likely to occur in sub-spinous dislocations, in which the new joint may give the patient a fair range of movement, especially if he be old. Operative methods.—On the other hand, in sub-glenoid and sub-coracoid dislocation the patient may not only have a practically useless arm, but he may suffer such intense pain that life is intolerable. As 'these accidents ' A simple method of attaching pulleys to the limb so as to avoid any pressure-eflfects is to encircle the lower third of the arm in a wet boracic lint bandage, and over this to attach a stout skein of worsted by a loose clove-hitch just above the condyles of the humerus. When this is in position it is thoroughly wetted and fastened in place by an ordinary bandage also thoroughly soaked. The pulleys (see Part III., Fig. 49) are then hooked on to the loop of the skein.