i8o THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. of cases are recorded in which tuberculous meningitis has followed so directly after an excision of the hip that there can hardly be any doubt that it was caused by the operative procedure. Local recurrence also is by no means necessarily avoided, because the exposed bone may become infected, since the disease has not been completely removed, and tuberculous osteitis or osteo-myelitis may set in. Hence we cannot agree that early excision is indicated either on the ground of a rapid cure of the disease or on that of avoiding dissemination of the tubercle, whilst the functional result is certainly not good. Finally, there is no doubt that there is very marked interference with the growth of the limb when excision is performed in very young children. Notwithstanding all this, there are cases in which excision at this stage of the disease is the proper procedure. We should reserve it for the following cases:—i. Those in which the disease is progressing in spite of careful treatment on the lines just indicated; that is to say, those in which the tenderness does not subside, where the fulness in the groin increases, where the starting pains at night continue, and where there are other signs that the disease is progressing. 2. Those in which it is evident that there is primary acetabular disease in which recovery is evidently not taking place; this is shown' particularly by thickening of the tissues on the inner surface of the acetabulum, which can be felt per rectum. In these cases, the head of the bone must be removed before sufficiently free access can be got to the acetabulum. 3. Those in which the head of the bone cannot be kept in place satis- factorily. It does not necessarily follow that excision need be performed here; the head of the bone may be exposed and the thickened synovial membrane removed, together with a large amount of the disease, when, after replacing the head of the bone, filling up the joint with an emulsion of iodoform and glycerine, and treating the patient on the lines already laid down, a cure may take place. (For the operation of excision, see p. 187.) 3. Of the third stage.—The great characteristic of this stage is the presence either of unopened abscesses or of sinuses resulting from the opening or rupture of them. The deformity is very similar to that already described in the previous stage. Treatment must vary according to whether (a) the abscess is unopened, or (b) sinuses are present. (a) When there is an unopened abscess.—Operative treatment is neces- sary, because the cases in which a chronic abscess has become absorbed under rest alone are so rare that a cure cannot be reasonably looked for without it. The point for decision in the operative treatment is whether the abscess shall be merely opened and treated, or whether steps, such as excision of the joint, shall be taken to remove the primary disease. The answer to this will depend upon the circumstances of the individual case, and one of the points of greatest importance is whether the abscess origin- ated within the pelvis, or whether its starting point is in the thigh. When the abscess is entirely outside the pelvis, and is therefore probably