•77 DISEASES OF THE HIP JOINT. be markedly thickened without any pronounced symptoms such as pain or interference with movement. No thickening will be found inside the pelvis on a rectal examination, and practically none in the synovial mem- brane. It is probable that a skiagram will help considerably. Under these circumstances we have cut down and removed tuberculous deposits from the bone, and have thus succeeded in curing the disease without any infec- tion of the joint. When the disease is evidently in the thickness of the neck of the femur, it may readily be got at by a vertical incision over the outer surface of the trochanter; when this is exposed, the shell of the bone is cut away with a gouge, and then the can- cellous bone scraped out with a sharp spoon until the tuberculous deposit is reached. The wound is sewn up without a drainage tube, and the cavity in the neck fills with new tissue which undergoes ossi- fication. It is rarely necessary to perform any operation involving opening of the joint in this early stage of the disease; but sometimes, when the disease is rapidly progressing, and when it is evidently due to a deposit in the bone which has burst into the joint, the case may with advantage be treated by opening the joint and performing as complete an arthrectomy as possible. Unfortunately in the hip it is impossible to gain sufficiently free access to the joint to perform a really satisfactory arthrectomy; but if the original focus of the disease in the bone be removed and the anterior part of the capsule taken away—as can readily be done—and if the joint cavity be then filled up with iodoform and glycerine femulsion and stitched up, the disease will often be found to subside. The careful employment of the methods of after-treatment already referred to, carried out for a long period, may then effect a cure. For the steps of arthrectomy see p. 187. 2. Of the second stage.—It is in the second stage that extension is of special value, for absorption is going on and the acetabulum is becoming enlarged, so that, unless means be taken to control the muscular spasm, the shortening will increase in spite of the most careful fixation of the joint. It must also be remembered that flexion undergoes marked increase in this stage, whilst there is also adduction and rotation inwards. The essential points in the expectant treatment during this stage, therefore, are the prevention of further shortening, and the reduction of the three deformities just mentioned; suitable extension is usually able to do all this. When the exten.sion is first put on, it should be in the line that the limb has already assumed ; this overcomes the spasm of the muscles PT. IV. M Fig. 42.—Phei.i's's Box. The splint is here shown without the pads etc. ; in the next Fig. it is shown in use. The holes in the foot- pieces and the slit in the upper end of the splint, through which extension and counter - extension can be made if desired, are seen here, as also the hollows in the sides of the box over which the child's arms can lie.