THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE. Pressure symptoms.—The disease may also exert pressure upon the spinal cord. In a considerable proportion of cases pressure symptoms become manifest after a time, and lead to interference with the innervation of the parts below the seat of the disease. This pressure originates in two ways, the most common being the condition known as pachymeningitis, in which the dura mater is infected and thickened; the thickened membranes fill up the spinal canal and press on the cord. In rarer cases an abscess forms in the spinal canal outside the dura mater, and, projecting back- wards, compresses the cord against the laminae. In the latter case the pressure symptoms may suddenly subside when an abscess is opened in the ordinary position, as the internal abscess communicates with and empties itself into the external one. It is very doubtful whether interference with the functions of the cord is ever caused by the acuteness of the curva- ture, though some have supposed that, in a very acute bending, the cord may be stretched over the bodies of the vertebrae and pressed upon, or that a spicule of bone may compress the cord ; it has also been supposed that, under similar circumstances, the symptoms may arise from kinking of the cord and interference with its circulation. It is possible that some cases may arise in this way, but they are very rare ; in the great majority of instances one or other of the conditions just mentioned is present and suffices to account for the paralysis. If this pressure be not relieved, myelitis occurs at the seat of compression, the cord becomes flattened, softened, and in some cases almost diffluent, and secondary degenerations spread from this point. In addition to pressure on the cord, the nerves passing out through the intervertebral foramina about the seat of the disease may be pressed upon and undergo structural alteration. TREATMENT.—The treatment will vary considerably according to the region of the disease. It will be best to consider separately the treatment for disease in the upper cervical region—frequently spoken of as "atlo-axoid disease"—for disease in the lower cervical and upper dorsal regions, for disease in the dorsal or dorso-lumbar regions, and for disease in the lumbo- sacral region. We shall first say a few words as to the treatment of the disease in general. (a) Of spinal disease in general.—As in the case of other bones and joints, the first essential in treatment is to place the affected part absolutely at rest and to remove all sources of irritation as far as possible. In order to place the spine completely at rest three points must be attended to. In the first place it is necessary to prevent antero-posterior and lateral movement; in the second, to take off the weight of the upper part of the body ; and in the third, to put a stop to the tonic contraction of the muscles of the spine surrounding the diseased area. These requisites may be met by (i) placing the patient horizontal upon a firm mattrass without a pillow and by applying heavy sandbags on each side rolled up in the ends of sheets passing over the legs, pelvis, and thorax ; in this way movement of