DISEASES OF THE KNEE JOINT. 205 the sponge that the acid does not flow over the skin. After the sponge is removed, the cavity in the bone is filled up with a io% emulsion of iodoform and glycerine, and the skin wound is stitched up without a drainage tube. After-treatment.—The limb is put on a back splint in the extended position and laid upon a pillow. The dressing need not be changed for ten days unless much discharge comes through ; by that time the wound will usually be healed, the stitches can be taken out and active and passive movement practised. After six or eight weeks, the patient can be allowed to get about if no sign of joint disease has appeared. This operation must be done under the strictest antiseptic precautions, as other- wise serious inflammation of the bone may occur, which would rapidly communicate with the joint and lead to most disastrous consequences. When osseous deposits occur elsewhere, as in the head of the tibia, or the external condyle of the femur, they are not nearly so easy to deal with, and we ourselves have never had to do with such a case. In the head of the tibia particularly, it seems to us that it would be most dangerous to scoop away indefinitely seeing how close the epiphyseal cartilage lies to the joint; unless the deposit were extra-epiphyseal, the attempt would probably end either in destruction of the epiphyseal cartilage or in the estabhshment of a communication between the deposit and the joint, or in both. Under such circumstances it would probably be better to resort for a time to expectant treatment. (b) Of general tuberculous disease.—It will be most convenient to describe separately the treatment of each of the clinical stages in which the case may be met with. (1) Treatment of the first stage.—AVhen the synovial thickening is not very marked, and there is no great pain or interference with move- ment, the disease is seen under the most favourable conditions; indeed, so slight are the symptoms that their seriousness is often overlooked, and the patient allowed to get about and move the joint freely, with the idea of retaining movement when the disease is recovered from. Parents also are often most averse to proper fixation of the joint under these circumstances. It must never be forgotten, however, that the chances of securing a good result are best at this stage; if a cure can be obtained, it is probable that a certain amount of movement will also be retained—much more than if movement be permitted and the disease thus allowed to progress. Expectant.—The great indication in the local treatment at this period is the employment of absolute physiological rest. The patient must be confined to bed in the horizontal position, with the leg elevated and the joint fixed by some suitable apparatus. Well-moulded, closely-fitting leather, poroplastic or Croft's splints (see Part TIL, p. 14) are the best. It is most essential that the patient should be recumbent until improvement is well advanced, because any attempt to move about on crutches or even