THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 198 PAPILLARY SYNOVITIS. In speaking of the diseases of joints in general we referred to a con- dition marked by the occurrence of papillary outgrowths from the synovial membrane due to hypertrophy of the synovial fringes; these are generally most numerous in the neighbourhood of the cartilages, but may sometimes cover the entire synovial membrane, and may or may not be associated with rheumatoid changes in the bones (see p. 107). The condition affects various joints, but is most frequently found in the knee where it gives rise to very acute symptoms. The long villous fringes float about in the joint, keep up considerable chronic synovitis with effusion, and frequently become nipped between the articular ends, so that the patient gets sudden pain and locking of the joint with exacerbation of the general symptoms. The condition is quite unaffected by baths, massage, and other measures usually employed for rheumatoid arthritis, and it may be well therefore to deal here in detail with its management, as in the knee the disease frequently calls for vigorous treatment. TREATMENT.—As far as our experience goes there are only two methods of treatment that offer any prospect of success. The first of these is to remove the affected portions of the synovial membrane, and the other is to inject irritating fluids into the joint with the object of fixing these freely movable villous tufts by causing adhesions. Irritant injections.—Injection of irritating fluids into the joint is by no means certain in its action. It is done by making a small vertical incision about an inch to the inner side of the patella through the skin and sub- cutaneous tissues. When all bleeding has been arrested, this is carried through the capsule and the synovial membrane, the edges of which are seized by catch forceps and held apart, while a stream of warm 1-2000 sublimate solution is flushed through the joint by means of a sterilised catheter attached by india-rubber tubing to a glass funnel and pushed into the articular cavity. After the joint has been well flushed out, the catheter is withdrawn, the fluid left in the joint, and the incision in the capsule closed by a fine catgut suture; the skin wound is then stitched up without a drainage tube. The limb is put on a suitable splint (see p. 196) until the resulting synovitis has subsided. The operation may have to be repeated more than once before the desired effect is produced. Should the first injection fail, a more irritating solution—such as the 1-20 carbolic acid—may be resorted to. We should only be inclined to recommend this method when the symptoms seem to point to a general affection of the synovial membrane rather than to the presence of one or two localised villous growths. Excision of the hypertrophied synovial membrane—The most certain method is to remove the hypertrophied synovial membrane, and, when the affection is limited to one or two patches, the result is most satisfactory; it is only necessary to remove the portion actually affected, after which