24 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. vigorous, has any marked effect upon it. As a rule it takes nearly six weeks for recovery to be complete. TREATMENT OF THE COMPLICATIONS OF DISLOCATION OF THE SHOULDER. There is of course in all cases considerable bruising of the muscles inserted into the tuberosities of the humerus—more particularly of the sub-scapularis. These injuries are generally recovered from without any trouble. 1. Fracture of the humerus may complicate the dislocation; the fracture may occur either low down in the shaft of the bone or through the surgical or the anatomical neck. 2. Injury to the neighbouring vessels or ^erz^^j—particularly the axillary artery, the brachial plexus, or the circumflex nerve—may be met with, especially in sub-glenoid or sub-coracoid dislocations. The injury may vary from simple bruising to complete rupture; in the majority of dislocations of the shoulder these structures are bruised to some extent. 1. Dislocation of the shoulder joint complicated by fracture.— This accident has already been discussed in speaking of fractures of the upper end of the humerus (see Part III., p. 73), and little need be added to what will be found there upon the subject. Treatment.—(a) When the fracture is in the shaft.—Should the fracture occur low down in the shaft of the bone, it is generally quite easy to reduce the dislocation first, and then to put up the fracture in the ordinary manner. The principal importance of this particular injury is that it is apt to be complicated by stiffness of the shoulder joint, and special measures have to be taken from the first to prevent this. As a rule there should be no difficulty in securing a satisfactory result, for if the fracture be properly reduced and immobilised, the humerus can be moved as a whole, and passive movements of the joint effected with but very slight disturbance of the fracture. It is highly important not to keep the fore-arm fixed to the side until consolidation has occurred. If this be done, a hopelessly stiff shoulder will certainly result. {b) When the fracture is in the neck.—When however the fracture is situated high up in the humerus, in the neighbourhood of the surgical or the anatomical neck, the gravity of the case is very considerably increased, for the small size of the upper fragment will render it excessively difficult, if not impossible, to reduce the dislocation. Formerly, as we have already said, it was recommended that the fracture should first be set and allowed to consolidate and that afterwards an attempt should be made to reduce the dislocation. For reasons which we have mentioned when speaking of unreduced dislocation (see p. 7) this is very bad practice and should certainly not be followed. It has also been suggested that when the dis- location cannot be reduced, passive movements should be commenced at once