209 DISEASES OF THE KNEE JOINT. • Other operations have sometimes been performed in this stage with benefit; one of these is arthrotomy or simple free incision into the joint designed to relieve tension and allow the chronic inflammation to subside. Another is an incomplete arthrectomy; that is to say, removal of a large portion but not the whole of the affected synovial membrane. As regards efficacy, arthrotomy cannot be compared to arthrectomy, as it is quite un- certain in its results, whereas arthrectomy, if satisfactorily performed, cuts short the disease effectually. In adults, however, when the disease is progressing and excision does not seem desirable, the intermediate course of performing arthrotomy and perhaps combining with it the removal of the supra-patellar pouch of synovial membrane may be adopted. Arthrectomy.—By an arthrectomy we understand complete removal of the whole of the diseased tissues without removing healthy structures and without taking away bone upon set lines as is done in excision. It is most important to bear in mind that the diseased structures should be removed by clean cutting and not by scraping, which is a most unsatis- factory procedure. The tubercles in the synovial membrane are generally embedded in firm fibrous tissue and are not readily scraped away, and scraping is therefore only a partial arthrectomy; to be effectual the opera- tion must be performed by the knife. A large number of different incisions have been recommended, but the one we advise as giving the best access to the joint is a somewhat H-shaped one, consisting of a vertical incision on each side of the patella connected by a transverse one across the centre of that bone. The vertical incisions should reach from the upper limit of the supra-patellar pouch well on to the anterior surface of the tibia, and should be from an inch to an inch and a half away from the edges of the patella. These are deepened until the tendon of the quadri- ceps extensor is exposed, division of which displays the fibrous capsule of the joint covered by fat and loose cellular tissue. The next step is to carefully divide the fibrous capsule, taking care not to cut into the synovial membrane. The handle of the knife or a blunt dissector is introduced between the two structures, and they are separated from one another, first of all in the supra-patellar region. Should however the disease be very advanced and the capsule obviously implicated in parts, it is best to take away this structure as well. The separation of the synovial membrane from the capsule is effected first between the two incisions, so that the finger can be introduced from one incision to the other between the two structures. This separation is continued upwards until PT. IV. o Fig. 53.—Incisions for Arthrectomy of the Knee. The longitudin.il in- cision should be very free. The transverse one joining them across the centre of the patella is not always neces- sar>'.