TUBERCULOSIS. a rare form of tuberciiloLis disease, in the diagnosis of which there is often great difficulty. The deposits may occur either as more or less pedunculated masses hanging into the joint (as described by Konig), or as simple localised thickenings of the synovial membrane. The pedunculated masses are very difficult to diagnose, but their nature may be suspected when, in tuberculous patients, irregular masses are felt resembling a fatty tumour more than a'loose cartilage. It is more common to find localised thickenings of the synovial membrane, and when this condition occurs without any definite cause in tuberculous subjects, its true nature may be strongly suspected. If these cases be not operated upon at once, the thickening steadily spreads, until finally the whole synovial membrane becomes involved, and the case is then one of typical tuberculous synovial disease. The condition may be met with in any joint, but we have most frequently observed it in the elbow, particularly in the neighbourhood of the head of the radius. It is possible that it has been most frequently noticed in this situation, because a certain amount of interference with the radio-ulnar articulation occurs very early, and so the patient is led to seek advice; whereas should it commence in any other part of the joint, there is less inter- ference with movement, and attention is not called to it until the disease is much more widespread. The obvious treatment is to cut down and remove the mass, whether it be pedunculated or merely a localised thickening. It is well to employ a curved incision, so as to turn aside a flap of the skin and subcutaneous tissues, and then the whole of the thickened tissues, along with a portion of the healthy synovial membrane all round, must be cut away; this is best done with scissors. In a number of cases, particularly in the elbow joint, the result is extremely satisfactory, with no recurrence of the disease and with a perfectly movable articulation. 3. Cases of empyema tuberculosum and hydrops tuberculosus.—Special attention has been called by Konig to the fact that tuberculous disease of joints sometimes commences as a rapid effusion of fluid into the joint, which in some cases is of the semi-purulent, flaky nature so characteristic of tuberculous pus; in other cases the fluid is clear. He has therefore applied the terms empyema tuberculosum and hydrops tuberculosus to these aff"ections. At first sight it is easy to mistake the case for one of chronic synovitis with effusion, as there is usually no marked pain, although generally there is more than is met with in the latter condition. The diagnosis is generally arrived at by observing that after a short time the synovial membrane begins to get thickened. This is in marked contrast to the simple hydrops articuli, in which the effusion may exist for a very long time without any distinct thickening of the synovial membrane. The treatment should generally be operative. The simplest plan consists in withdrawing the fluid by a trochar and cannula, washing out the joint with a weak sublimate solution (1-6000), and injecting into it two to four