DISLOCATIONS : GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. 3 This may be effected either by the administration of a general anaesthetic, or by steady traction in a suitable direction, which stretches and tires out the muscles, and so overcomes their resistance. Of the two methods the administration of an anresthetic is far the better procedure, and we would recommend its employment if possible in all cases of dislocation. In any attempt to reduce a dislocation without an ansesthetic it is generally extremely difficult to overcome the contraction of the muscles if the patient be at all powerful, while excessive pain may be caused, and a fresh and unnecessary laceration of the tissues will almost certainly result. The only cases in which an ancesthetic should be deliberately withheld are those in which there is some constitutional affection contra-indicating its use, those in which the situation of the dislocation is such that interference with breathing would be likely to result during its administration, or those in which the dislocation is only partial and can be readily enough reduced without it. {d) Entanglement of one of the articular ends with some of the structures in the vicifiity of the Joint. The end of the bone may be grasped by the edges of the laceration in the capsule through which it protrudes, or by some of the muscles, tendons or ligaments in the neighbourhood, or may become firmly hitched against some bony prominence. It will therefore be necessary to employ appropriate manipulations to get the articular surfaces into proper position. These manipulations are specially designed to disentangle the articular end from any structure around the joint with which it may have become engaged, and they will therefore naturally vary with the anatomical conditions of the par- ticular joint to which they are applied. They will be described in connection with individual dislocations, and all that need be said here is that their main object is to bring the head of the bone opposite the rent in the capsule through which it has escaped, and then to force it back through that rent into its normal position. {c) The interposition of neighbouring structures—especially tendons—be- tween the articular surfaces. The best example of this occurs in dislocations of the ankle. In joints, such as the temporo-maxillary, furnished with an inter-articular fibro-cartilage, this structure may be displaced and interfere with the proper reposition of the articular surfaces. When the ends of the bones have been brought into their proper relative positions, the surgeon must make quite certain that the move- ments of the joint are perfectly free and full in all directions. Should it be found that an obstacle, such as a piece of tendon or ligament is caught between the ends of the bones, the case should by no means be left alone. If further manipulations, intelligently directed to getting rid of the interposed structure fail, there should be no hesitation in opening the joint and removing the obstruction. An operation of this nature must of course be done with the strictest antiseptic precaution.s, but if the surgeon be an adept at such work he need have no