223 DISEASES OF THE KNEE JOINT. identifies the loose body slipping about in the joint, but whether this be so or not, the symptoms will easily lead to the identification of the con- dition, and the only treatment .possible is to remove the body. At the same time it is e.xtremely unsatisfactory to open a joint like the knee, in which there are so many recesses, however certain one may be that a loose body is present, unless it can actually be fixed. It is quite easy for the loose cartilage to slip away into some recess and to escape detection even after the joint has been freely opened. In all these cases therefore it is well to delay the operation until the patient can feel the loose body, and can retain it in position until the surgeon can remove it. Hence, when a patient has characteristic symptoms of a loose body in the joint, and has made up his mind to an operation, the limb should be shaved, disinfected, and kept ready for operation by a gauze dressing over it, and the patient should be directed to try and find the loose body from time to time. Should he succeed in doing so, it will usually be met with on one side of the supra-patellar pouch, and he should then try to fix it in position, and let the surgeon know that it has been found. While the patient is being placed under the anaesthetic, the loose body must be fixed, as otherwise it is very liable to slip away during the slight move- ments preliminary to the operation. It is well, therefore, after disinfecting the skin to thrust a needle through it and to transfix the body; failing this, an assistant should be told off to steady it with his fingers. The loose body-is extracted by making an incision directly over it, arresting all the haemorrhage from the superficial structures before the capsule is divided, and then opening the latter freely and removing the body as already described (see p. 160). When the body has been merely fixed by an assistant's fingers previous to operation, it is well to thrust a stout needle into it before the skin incision is made, as otherwise it is extremely liable to slip away when the capsule is opened, as the assistant's fingers must necessarily be removed then. Should the body escape into the joint notwithstanding these pre- cautions, or should it be deemed advisable to open the articulation without previously fixing it, and should the introduction of the finger through the opening fail to detect it, it may often be brought into reach by freely flushing the joint with a 1-8000 sublimate solution. After the loose body has been removed, all bleeding is arrested, the capsule is sutured with fine catgut and the external wound is sewn up. In former days this operation was a very dangerous one, and all sorts of expedients were resorted to in order to avoid opening the joint directly. Nowadays with perfect asepsis there is no risk at all. PAPILLARY SYNOVITIS.—The second form of internal derange- ment of the joint has already been fully described (see p. 107). DETACHMENT OF THE LIGAMENTA ALARIA.—We have had .several examples of this condition under our notice. One or both of the ligamenta alaria may be torn away from their attachments to the