43 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW. exposes the radio-humeral joint at once without damage to any important parts; it should be about 2^ inches long. The capsule of the joint is now incised at its posterior aspect, when the head of the radius is seen. The orbicular ligament should be defined and the two torn ends held aside, after which it is easy to press the head of the bone into proper position. The torn ends of the orbicular ligament should be stitched together if possible; the feasibility of this will depend upon the position of the rent in the ligament. Should the latter be torn ■close to its insertion into the ulna it may be a very difficult matter to repair the injury from the posterior incision; but, as a rule, the trouble may be got over by passing two or three catgut stitches through the end of the torn ligament and then through the periosteum, or the insertion of the ligament close to the bone, before the dislocation is reduced. These stitches are left loose and are only tied after the head of the radius has been got into position. I'"ic. 15.—Incision to Expose the Heaii of the Radius. The deep fascia and the capsule of the joint have been incised directly over the head of the bone. The wound is sewn up without a drainage tube, and the ordinary dressings are applied; the after-treatment will be practically the same as that for dislocation reduced successfully by manipulation. Dislocation of the head of the radius backwards or outwards is of very rare occurrence, and the treatment will be that of the form just described. Similar difficulties are met with in these forms of dislocation and must be treated in a similar manner. Some rare cases have also been described in which the head of the radius has been dislocated forwards whilst the ulna has been driven backwards, but these hardly require special description. Unreduced dislocation.—We have met with several cases in which dislocation has either passed unnoticed or at any rate has not been reduced, and where months and even years have elapsed before the patient has a[)plied for advice. The trouble complained of is that flexion is very