THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 140 as to combine pressure with the mercurial application. It is also well to apply a splint during the early stage; this is more especially called for in the knee, joint. This treatment often suffices to cure the disease, but sometimes very rebellious tertiary joint lesions may improve up to a certain point under large doses of iodide of potassium and then come to a standstill. This is more likely to be the case when there is an extensive deposit in the bone rather than an affection of the synovial membrane, and the question of operative interference will then have to be considered. Operative Measures.—These have been discussed in connection with syphilitic diseases of bone (see Part III., p. 204, and also Part I., p. 236). Should there be a syphilitic ulcer communicating with a gum- matous deposit, it will certainly be advisable to scrape away as much of the gummatous material as possible, and to remove any actually diseased bone or any sequestrum that may be present. The internal remedies must be persevered with at the same time. In this way the quantity of morbid material that has to be removed by the agency of the drugs is very much diminished, and the prospects of a speedy cure proportionately increased. JOINT AFFECTIONS IN HEREDITARY SYPHILIS. It is not at all uncommon for a joint to become affected in hereditary syphilis as the result of the inflammatory condition of the articular ends of the bone known as osteo-chondritis (see Part III., p. 205). As a rule there is simply some effusion into the joint cavity without any definite syphilitic affection of the joint structures; sometimes, however, there may be a deposit of gummatous material in the synovial membrane. The condition most usually occurs in the knee, generally on both sides, and it may or may not be associated with the presence of gummata in the epiphyses. Treatment.—This is essentially that already described for hereditary syphilis (see Part III., p. 205 and Part I., p. 236). The treatment usually results in complete recovery. SYPHILITIC DACTYLITIS.—There is a not uncommon affection termed dactylitis syphilitica, which occurs in hereditary syphilis and which is apt to be confounded with the strumous form. In syphilis, however, the affection is primary in one of the joints, whereas in the strumous variety it is essentially an osteo-myelitis of the phalanx. Syphilitic dactylitis is usually multiple, affecting the joints in several fingers, and giving rise to a fusiform swelling, the centre of which is opposite the affected articulation. It is clue to a gummatous infiltration of the synovial membrane and yields readily to the treatment proper to hereditary syphilis.