134 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. at rest, the inflammation will subside quickly, and there will be less for- mation of cicatricial tissue which will stretch rapidly under the natural movements. The most important point to bear in mind after recovery is that it is never permissible to attempt to forcibly restore movement. Although the "cure" of tuberculous joints is commonly spoken of, recovery is seldom complete. In the great majority tuberculous material still remains, and, having undergone encapsulation, it gives no trouble so long as no fresh injury occurs. These deposits may remain quiescent indefinitely unless forcible movements be employed, when there is very great risk of opening up the deposits and lighting up the disease once more. Patients are frequently met with who, having suffered in early life from tuberculous joint disease, and thinking that it is time for movement to be improved, go to a bone-setter and have the joint forcibly moved, with the result that the disease recurs in a worse form than before. When, in spite of careful treatment on these lines, it is obvious that no progress is being made, or when the occurrence of pain or rigidity points to extension of the disease to the cartilages and the bone, operative interference is indicated. Here again the particular operation chosen will depend upon the circumstances of the individual case, arthrectomy being employed for children, excision for adults, and amputation for weakly, phthisical, or very elderly people. The operation should not be long delayed unless it is fairly certain that recovery will take place, for, after all, the results of arthrectomy in children for pure synovial disease are extremely satisfactory, as also are those of excision in adults. Should the operation be too long delayed, these satisfactory results will be impossible, and the only available treatment may be amputation. 6. Cases complicated by unopened, abscesses which, may or may not communicate with the joint.—Operative measures must here be undertaken at once, because the chance of absorption of the abscess is extremely remote, whilst the risk of its spreading in undesirable directions is very great. The important point for consideration is whether it will not save time, and also be of advantage to the patient, to combine some of the more radical operative measures, such as arthrectomy or excision, with the treatment of the abscess. The decision will depend to a considerable extent on the joint affected, on the local condition, particularly with regard to the number of the abscesses, and on the general condition of the patient. In the hip joint, for instance, it must be remembered that excision does not give a particularly good functional result, and, should only a single abscess be present about the joint, and should the patient be in good health, it is usually best to treat the case on the lines laid down for the treatment of chronic abscess (see Part I., p. 247), without resorting to the more severe operation of excision until it is evident that this is absolutely called for. Something like 70 "/„ of cases of hip joint disease accompanied by a single abscess may thus be cured. On the other hand.