THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE. 292 It will nearly always be necessary to have recourse to the systematic use of the catheter. Sometimes however there is true Inconimence, the urine being voided as soon as it reaches the bladder, and catheterisation is therefore unnecessary, but nevertheless the surgeon must do his best to avoid septic decomposition of the urine. With this view suitable glass urine-bottles should be provided, which must be changed at least every two or three hours and sterilised by boiling before use. In the male, the glans penis should be disinfected several times a day by washing with 1-2000 sublimate solution, and subsequently enveloping it in gauze dipped in 1-4000 sublimate solution. When rete?ttion—the common condition—is present, regular catheterisa- tion is called for, and hence the risks of cystitis are much increased. The softest of instruments, of which the best is Jaques' red rubber catheter, should be employed, and this must be scrupulously sterilised. The best plan is to allow it to lie in plain water for about half an hour after use and then to remove all mucus from the interior by forcibly syringing water through it. It is then sterilised, either' by boiling for a quarter of an hour, or by immersion in a 1-20 carbolic solution until it is required for use; the rubber is not spoilt either by boiling or by immersion in carbolic lotion. Previous to use, the carbolic acid should be removed by syringing a little boracic lotion through the instrument, which should be anointed with eucalyptus oil and vaseline squeezed on to it from a collapsible tube and not got from the ordinary ointment pot. The advantages of this are obvious; nothing is more calculated to introduce septic material than dipping the catheter point into an oint- ment jar which has probably been similarly used scores of times previously. The meatus should be washed with 1-2000 sublimate solution immediately before the catheter is introduced, the fossa navicularis being cleansed with a small pledget of wool. After the urine has been drawn off, care should be taken to prevent the introduction of air into the bladder by pinching the catheter as it is withdrawn, and in the interval between the catheterisations the glans penis should be disinfected and enveloped in gauze {vide supra). Cystitis.—In spite of the greatest care however cystitis frequently supervenes, particularly when the fracture is in the neighbourhood of the urinary centre in the cord. The principal reliance must be placed upon washing out the bladder with antiseptic lotions, of which the best are sanitas, or boro-glyceride (i in 20), dilute Condy's fluid, boracic lotion, etc.; while internally salol may be given in ten-grain doses, either alone or in combination with a similar amount of boracic acid. \\'hen the urine is strongly alkaline and contains large quantities of thick ropy pus, a good lotion is one containing five grains of sulphate of quinine and ten minims of dilute sulphuric acid to the ounce of water, or a weak solution of nitrate of silver in distilled water (a quarter to half a grain to the ounce). If there be htematuria, the administration of turpentine x.-xx.) or balsam of copaiba (iT^ xx.-xxx.) may be useful; terebine