291 INJURIES OF THE SPINE. cut away. Perhaps, however, the most common plan i.s to apply a Hey's saw close to the junction of the lamina with the pedicle on each side and to saw it partially through, when, either with a chisel or with cutting plier.s, the lamina is divided completely. When the first lamina has been removed, it is easy to insinuate the blade of the cutting pliers beneath the next above it, and so to divide it. When the laminae are to be removed, they are lifted out as divided ; when they are to be left, the ligaments uniting the lowest lamina divided to the one below it are divided transversely, and all the divided lamince are lifted up as one mass upon a hinge which is formed by the ligaments uniting the uppermost of the divided laminae to the one immediately above it (see Fig. 78). This procedure brings into view the dura mater which is covered by fat and a plexus of veins. It can now be easily ascertained whether there is effusion of blood outside the dura mater or whether a spicule of bone is pressing upon the cord. The further procedure depends upon what is found when the laminae have been removed. In cases of fracture of the neural arch, the operation is practically complete at this stage; the depressed bone is removed, any rough spicules are clipped away and any blood-clot pressing upon the cord is removed ; it is seldom necessary to open the dura mater. In cases of fracture of the body, attempts have been made, after having opened the canal, to chisel away the projecting portion of the body, but this has practically always failed and cannot be recommended. Should it be deemed advisable to open the dura mater—which is not always necessary—this is best done by a vertical incision, care being taken to arrest the bleeding from the veins first. The chief reason for opening the dura mater is to remove blood-clot pressing on the spinal cord. After opening the dura mater great care should be taken to prevent the escape of the cerebro-spinal fluid in any quantity. It is well therefore to keep the head hanging down, in order to allow the cerebro-spinal fluid to collect in the skull, and, as soon as the inspection of the cord is satisfactorily accom- plished, the dura mater should be closely stitched up with a fine catgut suture. And in the after-treatment it is well to keep the patient on his face, with the head down and the foot of the bed elevated, for some days in order to prevent excessive leakage of cerebro-spinal fluid. After-treatment.—A large mass of dressing is put on after the wound has been sewn up without a drainage tube, and a large moulded shield of poroplastic material or plaster of Paris is fitted to the back and sides of the trunk to ensure immobihty. If the dura mater has been opened, the precautions mentioned in the last paragraph must be adopted. Unless the dressing becomes soaked with discharge, it need not be changed for ten ■days, when the stitches are taken out. Treatment of complications.—Perhaps the most important point in these cases is the avoidance of complications and their treatment when they arise. Death in cases of fracture of the spine is almost invariably ■due to one of these. The most important are cystitis and bedsores.