328 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE. Fig. 95. Series C. 1. Circular turn of the arms.—The palms upwards, the arms describe a half circle on the earth, to rejoin at the sides of the head (see Fig. 86 c). There the fingers cross each other (see Fig. 92), the patient stretches out as far as possible, and brings the arms J, back parallel to the side of the body by describing a half circle in a vertical plane (see Fig. 89 <5). Exercise of all the muscles attached to the scapula and upper end of the humerus. 2. Circular movement of the leg.—-The leg held straight is lifted vertically, carried outwards to the earth, and returned to its place. All the rest of the body immovable. Exercise of psoas and iliacus, and all the muscles of the thigh, including those passing from the pelvis to the femur, and sartorius (see Fig. 87). 3. Circular movement of the head.—The head is first bent forwards until the chin touches the chest (see Fig. 91), then the head is inclined in such a manner that the ear touches the j,^^ shoulder (see Fig. 93) ; return to the position of rest in the same level. Repeat, inchning the head to the opposite side. E.xercise of the muscles on each side of the neck. Series D. I. Sit up without the aid of the arms, the back straight, the head stretched out (see Fig. 94 d). Lie down again very slowly without bending the back. Exercise of the psoas and iliacus and of anterior abdominal muscles chiefly. 2. Lift the legs stretched very slowly as far as the vertical. Lower them slowly. Exercise of psoas and iliacus and anterior thigh muscles (see Fig. 87). 3. Place the right hand on the ribs as high up and as far back as possible, thumb forwards. Place the left forearm on the head so that the left fingers touch the right ear. Bend all the body above the right hand as far as possible to the right (see Fig. 94 b). Take a few deep inspirations and return to the symmetrical position. Exercise for right dorsal curve. Fig. 94. 4. Repeat the preceding exercise in a reverse manner. Exercise for left dorsal curve. 5. Arms in a cross. Legs and hips immovable, head straight. Bend the whole body to the left (see Fig. 94;:). Remain during a few inspirations. Return to the position of rest. Exercise for right lumbar curve. 6. Repeat in the opposite direction. Exercise for left lumbar curve. Series E.—Lying on the Stomach. I. Arms strongly stretched at the sides, raise one- self, breathe. Exercise for erector spinas (see Fig. 95).