THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE. 288 tendency to interfere with the respiration, which is already very much embarrassed by the paralysis of the respiratory muscles. The good that can be done by immobilisation is small in comparison with the risk that is thus run. When there is no marked deformity, it is sufficient to place the patient flat upon the back in bed with the head low and the knees flexed over a pillow to relax the psoas muscles. The advisability of attempting to remove the pressure on the cord by operation in fracture of the vertebral bodies has been much debated; in our opinion it is of very doubtful value indeed. Indeed, in the majority of cases in which the displacement is marked and where there is therefore no doubt that the cord has been irremediably damaged, operation is not only useless but adds very considerably to the immediate risks. The only cases in which laminectomy seems advisable or even justifiable are those in which the damage to the cord appears to be incomplete,—that is to say, the paralysis is partial and, judging from its gradual increase and the irritative symptoms accompanying it at first, is probably due rather to pressure by blood-clot than by the bony fragments; under these circumstances it is well to perform laminectomy at once. In other cases again, where the paralysis, although complete in the first instance, shows signs of improvement, it is also advisable to perform laminectomy with the view of removing any source of pressure still present. Except under these circumstances however, the operation does not seem advisable for fractures through the bodies, except possibly in the case of the cervical spine. The operation of laminectomy will be described immediately {^oide infra). 2. Fracture of the spinous processes and laminae.—This con- dition is much more hopeful, because the cord is seldom pulped up by the depressed bone. Any paralysis present is usually due to direct pressure of the bone or to pressure of blood effused between the cord and the bone. It is very important to recognise this condition, because the prognosis is good if treatment be carried out early. The only method likely to' be efificacious is removal of the pressure on the cord; in other words operation must be the first thing to be thought of When the depressed bone is removed or the blood-clot cleared out, it is not uncommon for complete recovery to take place, unless the cord has been badly lacerated at the time of the injury. The operation is known as lammectomy; and although in its later stages the procedure varies m different cases, the operation is the same in all cases up to the removal of the laminae. We shall therefore describe the main operation and the various modifications of it suitable for the different cases that may be met with. Laminectomy.—The operation consists essentially in the removal of the laminae in order to gain access to the spinal canal; a variety of procedures may be called for when this has been done.