THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 220 only one or two sinuses and the septic condition is not marked, the wound may be stitched up without one. In adults — In adults the choice lies between excision and amputation. When the patient is strong and well-to-do, excismi is probably best. The same care must be taken in disinfecting the sinuses and removing them, as has, already been mentioned in the case of children; it is well also to treat the wound with undiluted carbolic acid {vide supra). When the general condition is bad, however, amputation through the lower third of the thigh is the best treatment; the patient recovers at once, there is much less shock, and little fear of recurrence. (4) Treatment of the fourth stage. — When recovery is taking place with anchylosis of the joint in a faulty position, the treatment consists Fig. 56.—Cuneiform Excision of the Knee for Anchylosis with Deformity. The thick lines show where the bone will require to be divided in order to get the limb straight. From this it is obvious that the region of the epiphyseal line must necessarily be encroached upon. essentially in rectifying the deformity. If the union be fibrous and com- paratively slight, cofitinued extensio?i may succeed in bringing the limb straight; but this is rarely successful, because the adhesions in the joint are generally accompanied by marked shrinking of the .posterior ligaments or shortening of the muscles around the joint. If extension is to be employed, it is well in most cases to perform tenotomy of these structures before it is used; the extension should be very gentle, as otherwise the disease may be lighted up again. The straightening of the limb may be facilitated by stretching under an anaesthetic, but this must be extremely gentle and practised by slow degrees at intervals of a week or ten days. In a child.—In children where there is only fibrous anchylosis, and where disease is still present and extension fails to get the limb into proper position, arthrectomy should be done. This allows free access -to the various ligaments about the joint, which can be divided, when the limb is easily brought straight. When no active disease is present, the limb cannot be brought straight by extension, but the best treatment is to allow the child to get about, to have the limb well massaged, and then, when growth is nearly complete—at from sixteen to eighteen years of age—the case can be treated as though the patient were an adult (pide infra).