178 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. readily, and in a few days the line of extension may be slightly altered so as to diminish the flexion and the adduction. The rotation can be over- come by means of the transverse piece of wood behind the knee, which has already been described (see Part III., p. 117). By gradually altering the position of the extension, the deformity can be quite overcome, until finally extension should be made with the joint in a position of distinct abduction. The best result that can be hoped for in these cases is recovery with a more or less complete anchylosis of the limb, and, should anchylosis occur with the limb parallel to the middle line, the shortening Fig. 43.—Mkthod of Afi-lication of Phelps's Box. I'he child lies upon suitable firm cushions made to fit the splint; other similar ones are inserted between the sides of the splint and the body. The legs are kept in their respective troughs by bandages, the thorax is encircled by a bread towel or folded sheet over the splint. The sketch above shows the box arranged for a case of spinal caries; extension is applied to the head, which is fastened to the end of the splint by a headstall, and the child's weight allowed to tell upon it by raising that end of the splint. For hip disease, if desired, extension can be made by combining weight and pulley extension of the lower limb with the above ; the cord bearing the weight passes from the stirrup through holes in the foot of the splint. will be considerable. If, however, the limb be abducted, the patient will have to tilt the pelvis towards that side when he desires to bring the sole of the foot flat upon the ground in walking, so that the apparent shorten- ing becomes less than the real shortening, and thus the patient can get about with a thinner sole on the affected side than he otherwise could ; this is a point of great importance. It is seldom sufficient to allow the body weight to be the sole counter-extending force while the position of the limb is being thus rectified, since the patient is apt to wriggle across the bed and so defeat all attempts to remedy the adduction. Hence, a perineal band should be passed around the sound groin, and fastened to the head of the bed ; as a further precautionary measure, heavy sandbags should be applied