DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW. 37 the bones of the fore-arm are displaced backwards, but, owing to the inter- vention of soft structures, the pressure is not severe as a rule, and the interference with the circulation and innervation is usually temporary, and completely disappears when the dislocation is reduced. Should, however, either the artery or the median nerve be torn across, the treatment must be the same as in similar injuries connected with dis- locations of the shoulder (see p. 26), that is to say, the vessel must be tied, and the nerve, if torn, sutured. The indications for operative inter- ference already laid down for the shoulder apply equally here. (c) Of compound dislocation.—A compound dislocation of the elbow backwards is not at all common. Sometimes, however, as the result of severe violence, the olecranon process or the lower end of the humerus is forced through the skin, and projects externally. The treat- ment will follow the lines already laid down for compound dislocation in general (see p. 5). The skin around the wound must be thoroughly disinfected, the wound itself enlarged and freely swabbed out with strong mixture, or, if it be obviously very dirty, pure carbolic acid may be appHed. In carrying out either of these procedures it is important not to introduce the strong antiseptic into the joint unless the articulation itself be soiled. It is sufficient to wash out the latter first with a 1-2000 and then with a 1-8000 subhmate solution. Drainage tubes should always be inserted in the joint. The best points at which to insert them are on either side, one rather behind the external condyle, to drain the back and outer side of the joint, and one in front of the internal condyle to efficiently drain the front. The ordinary antiseptic dressings are applied, and the elbow is put up at right angles. Should the wound remain aseptic, the drainage tubes are taken out in the course of three days, and at the end of a week passive movement is carried out daily. As soon as the wound has healed, the splint should be discontinued, and massage and active and passive movements practised vigorously for four or five weeks. It is not always possible to secure a good result by simple disinfection and drainage. If there be a compound dislocation associated with con- siderable soiling of the joint, and particularly if there be a comminuted fracture of the lower end of the humerus, immediate excision will probably on the whole give the best result. If an attempt were made to save the joint by disinfection and drainage, a long time would be required for healing, while very extensive adhesions would certainly result, and would almost inevitably lead to a stiff joint; whereas the functions of the articulation are extremely well preserved after excision, and the period of convalescence is comparatively short. The excision in these cases will as a rule be somewhat irregular, and the amount of bone removed will depend to a certain degree upon the extent of the injury to the bone; generally, however, the mistake made is in taking away too little rather than too much. AVhen the lower end of the humerus