NERVOUS AFFECTIONS. 143 later on with tuberculosis. Several cases of this kind have been noted, and it is found that they run much the same course as other tuber- culous joints. Treatment.—This is extremely unsatisfactory. Since the joint affection is dependent upon the nervous lesion, it is not to be expected that much can be done unless the primary disease can be cured. Since that is at present apparently impossible, the chance of restoring the functions of the joint is extremely slight. Treatment"must therefore be directed to limiting the destructive processes and to giving the joint as great a measure of stability as possible. Aspiratio7i.—Should the case be seen in the early stages,' when the capsule is distended with fluid, something should be done, since the distension is a great menace to the future stability of the joint, because of the stretching and atrophy of the ligaments and capsule that it gives rise to. Consequently the fluid should be withdrawn from the joint and its re-accumulation prevented as far as possible.. Drainage.—The fluid may be removed by aspiration, repeated if necessary, but a more efficient plan is drainage. An incision sufficiently large to admit a moderate-sized drainage-tube (No. 16) should be made into the joint, which is drained for two or three weeks, until the tendency to effusion has passed off". The operation must of course be performed with the strictest antiseptic precautions. Splints.—The limb should be put on a splint so arranged that the ends of the bone are not pressed against one another. After the drainage has been dispensed with and the wound has healed, the limb should be put up in a plaster of Paris or silicate bandage, which should be renewed from time to time as may be necessary. This keeps the limb in good position and at the same time gives it sufficient rest to allow of the deposit of new bone in situations which will give support to the articu- lation. Apparatus.—In about six months' time this casing may be abandoned and some suitable form of orthopsedic apparatus should be constructed, which allows the patient to use the limb and at the same time prevents deformity. The apparatus must be worn for the rest of the patient's life, for, although the joint may become fairly firm from the formation of fresh bone, it never becomes strong enough to support the weight alone. It has been proposed to excise joints thus affected, but the operation may be definitely rejected as absolutely useless. When excision of a joint affected with Charcot's disease has been performed (and we ourselves have had experience of this), the result invariably seems to be that no union occurs between the bone ends; consequently the patient may be considerably worse off than he was before, because the expanded articular ends have been removed by the operation. Amputation.—Very rarely amputation may have to be considered, the only condition likely to demand it being disease of the ankle joint