THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 262 completely removed. The orbicular ligament will also require careful inspection for it is often diseased. After all the synovial membrane has been removed from its attach- ment to the bone, and after any portions of cartilage or bone that are affected have been shaved off with a knife or freely gouged out, the humerus is protruded through one of the wounds—generally the inner—and examined (see Fig. 71). Special attention must be paid to the olecranon and coronoid fossEe, and the articular surface must be treated in a manner similar to that adopted for the bones of the fore-arm. After the disease has been thoroughly removed, the bones are replaced, the wounds stitched up without a drainage tube, the usual antiseptic dressings applied and the limb placed upon an internal angular splint. Fk;. 71.—Method of Protruding the Articular Ends in Arthrectomy of the Ei.BOW. If the lateral incisions shown in the preceding figure be long enough, it is quite easy to protrude the^nd of the humerus, as shown above, after dividing the ligaments. The fore-arm may if necessary be deflected laterally to a very acute angle. The upper ends of the radius and ulna may be protruded in a similar manner through either of the lateral incisions. Should septic sinuses be present they must be treated by excision if possible, or at any rate by thorough scraping (see p. 135); the articular surfaces should then be sponged over with undiluted carbolic acid, and a drainage tube inserted when the wound is sewn up ; when no sinuses are present drainage is seldom if ever necessary. After-ireaime?it.—The splints should be retained for three or four weeks, after which the arm should be kept in a sling for another two or three weeks and the patient encouraged to move it freely. There is no particular advantage in performing passive movement; in a child, the arm will be constantly used and the result will be as good by leaving the case to nature as by trying to force it with passive movement. The only form of passive movement that is really desirable is rotation of the hand, and this may be practised diligently both actively and passively.