THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE. to temporary loss of function without any actual organic lesion. Whether such a state of matters is possible has been much debated, and it is true that in the majority of cases of supposed concussion, whether cerebral or spinal, minute lesions, chiefly in the form of capillary haemorrhages, have been discovered. A certain number of cases do however occur in which no lesion can be detected but in which no other known cause of paraplegia can be found. The affection is usually caused by a severe blow on the back or by a fall from a height upon the feet, buttocks, or back. Symptoms.—There is usually more or less complete loss of movement and sensation, especially in the legs, immediately after the accident; there may sometimes be weakness of the arms as well. There may also be incontinence of urine and constipation. The symptoms usually pass off in a few hours, but they may last a few days; when there is no actual organic lesion, recovery practically always occurs. Should there be defective recovery, such as permanent weakness affecting some single muscle or group of muscles, it is probable that there has been some actual lesion, such as hgeraorrhage into the cord. Treatment.—Nothing is necessary beyond keeping the patient in bed and employing a spinal ice-bag and ergot (see p. 279) in the early stage, if there be any reason to suspect increasing hasmorrhage. The condition of the bladder must be ascertained and the diet should be non-stimulating and should consist mainly of milk. "Railway spine."—In connection with concussion we may refer to the condition known as " railway spine." This is usually a condition of sprain of the muscles and fasciae which has been neglected and has become chronic, but some cases, in which degenerative changes subsequently occur, are probably due to haemorrhage into the cord or into the mem- branes. Others again are hysterical conditions following the general nervous upset. The condition is one of great interest, partly from the difficulty in arriving at an accurate estimate of the damage sustained, and partly from the obstacles that are so often thrown in the way of treatment. The mere fact that the injury has been met with upon the railway, and that compen- sation may therefore possibly be claimed, doubtless often has a tendency both to discount the gravity of the case in the eyes of the surgeon and to increase it in those of the patient. It frequently requires not only a good knowledge of surgery, but also a keen insight into character to arrive at a just conclusion. Treatment.—There are often difficulties in carrying this out successfully. In the first place complete rest and quietude are called for immediately after the accident, with rest from all mental work. This, however, it is often most difficult to secure, and, from the circumstances of the case, business worries, interviews and correspondence regarding compensation, etc., are very difficult to exclude; this alone is sufficient to account for