WOUNDS. 85 antiseptic dressings are applied, and the limb is put on a splint in a com- fortable position. After-treatment.—The dressing should be changed next day, partly because there will be free oozing and partly to ascertain the condition of the wound. As a rule the serous effusion will necessitate a change of dressing daily for the first week or more; at the same time there need be no anxiety about sepsis should there be no rise of temperature or symptoms of acute inflammation about the wound after the first 36 hours. The drainage tube should be retained for the first five or six days, for if it be removed too soon there may be a free and troublesome synovial effusion. The later treatment is much the same as that already mentioned. The limb is kept upon the splint until the wound heals or has become quite superficial; but in these cases passive movement should be freely employed by the surgeon after the first three days in order to prevent the formation of adhesions in the joint, which are much more likely to occur than after punctured wounds. The best plan is, each time after taking off the dressings, to throw a large piece of gauze dripping wet with a 1-2000 sublimate solution over the wound so that the whole of the knee is covered by it, and then, keeping it in position by the hand that steadies the femur, to perform the passive movements. As soon as the wound has become superficial, more vigorous steps must be taken to promote the functions of the joint by massage and passive movement, and these must be persisted in until the movements are completely restored. When the attempt to obtain asepsis fails the after-treatment must be on the same lines as those which will be presently laid down for the treatment of septic wounds of joints (see p. 87); in fact, the condition is then almost the same as if the patient had not come under the surgeon's care until some days had elapsed since the injury. 3. Contused Wounds.—Here the soft structures superficial to the joint are bruised, and as a rule there is marked soiling of their surfaces. We may take as the two main types of this kind of injury, first a machinery accident, where the skin is torn and the joint opened, and secondly a compound dislocation, in which the bones are forced through the skin. In both cases there is a contused lacerated wound in the soft tissues, and in both the cavity of the joint will probably be much soiled. In the first type of case the tissues will be soiled by dirt or grease, while in the second the ends of the bones will be infected by clothing or, when the injury takes place in joints that are not covered by clothes, by contact with the ground or some other object. Unless disinfection be extremely carefully carried out, an aseptic wound can hardly be hoped for, and these cases are therefore very serious. A general anaesthetic is indispensable to efficient treatment. The skin is first thoroughly shaved and disinfected, and the wound if necessary enlarged so as to expose all the recesses of the joint. All contused and lacerated parts must be freely cut away with scissors, and the surfaces thus left