65 DISLOCATIONS OF THE KNEE. Lateral dislocations of the knee are still rarer, outward dislocation being perhaps less infrequent than the inward form. They are almost always in- complete. TREATMENT.—This as a rule is very simple, as there is little diffi- culty in reducing most of these dislocations, especially as they are generally partial, if the patient be put fully under an aneesthetic. The lower end of the femur should be firmly fixed by an assistant, whilst the surgeon makes traction on the leg and employs the movements necessary for the reduction of the dislocation. Thus, in dislocation of the tibia forwards, re- duction is readily effected by traction and subsequent flexion of the knee joint. When the tibia is dislocated backwards, traction is also employed, whilst the head of the bone is pushed forwards into position. In lateral dislocations, traction alone may suffice, but if necessary lateral pressure may be made upon the tibia so as to push it into position. After-treatment.—The principal difficulty in the treatment lies in the after-effects of the injury. Very extensive damage is done to the joint, considerable effusion of blood may occur into it, and extremely severe swelling and inflammation will supervene. Time must also be allowed for union of the ruptured ligaments to occur, or else a permanently weak joint will be left. The limb should be put up on a straight splint, and cold, either in the form of an ice-bag or Leiter's tubes (see Part I., p. 9), applied to diminish the effusion. Very cautious passive movement should be begun during the second week so as to prevent adhesions in the joint. In the early stage it is often necessary to move the limb under an anaesthetic, as the internal damage is very considerable and movement may cause great pain. Three weeks or so after the accident, a firm leather splint may be moulded to the joint, and the patient allowed to get about, the splint being removed two or three times a day •for passive and active movements and massage. As a rule it is necessary to wear a lace-up knee- cap for several months. DISLOCATION OF THE SEMILUNAR CARTILAGES. VARIETIES.—Of the two cartilages the internal is far more commonly displaced. It may be torn from its attachment to the spine of the tibia both in front and behind, or it may be detached at one end, the other remaining unaffected, or both its attachments may remain intact whilst the union between the cartilage and the edge of the tibia may be ruptured. The common condition is for the anterior end of the cartilage to be de- tached from the spine and from the edge of the tibia for some distance. Much more rarely the cartilage may be split either longitudinally or trans- versely, and this may be either partial or complete. RESULTS.—As a result of these injuries the cartilage may either slip backwards and forwards over the head of the tibia with the movements of the joint, or its detached end may curl up in the interior of the joint PT. IV. E