244 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. ligaments can also be cut and the bone removed. The scaphoid is removed by a similar incision directly over the bone, extending well above and below its limits so as to facilitate good retraction of the parts. The removal of individual bones in this manner is far superior to the operation formerly done, which generally consisted in the removal of a wedge of the tarsus without respect to its articulations. Excision of individual bones does not open up the cancellous tissue of other bones not yet involved in the disease; there is therefore no risk of re infection and, as we have said, the functional result is extremely good, in fact much better than when the bones are merely sawn across. After-treatment.—^^After the affected bone has been removed, the wound should be stitched up without a drainage tube unless sinuses have been present; before this is done, a little iodoform emulsion should be left in. Healing should take place by first intention, after which the foot may be put up in a waterglass or plaster of Paris bandage. The patient is not allowed to walk for two or three months. Diffuse Disease of the Tarsus. It is perhaps most common to find the patient when he first presents himself for treatment suffering from diffuse disease of the tarsus involving the whole of the large synovial membrane. Treatment.—Removal of individual bones will not meet the require- ments of these cases. In the first instance, expectant treatment, consisting of rest, the injection of iodoform, pressure, etc. (see p. ii6), may be attempted for a short time, but it must be remembered that this form of disease is very grave and is likely to be followed by internal complications; expectant treatment must therefore not be persisted in too long. The choice of operative procedures lies between partial tarsectomy, complete tarsectomy by some operation such as Mikulicz's, or amputation, and the choice will be influenced by the virulence of the disease, the general condition of the patient, and the presence or absence of tuberculosis elsewhere. Partial tarsectomy.—When the disease is limited to the bones and joints in front of the transverse tarsal articulations, the best procedure is to remove the affected bones in one mass, namely a partial tarsectomy. This is best done by lateral incisions which preserve the tendons, vessels and nerves, and are not much more troublesome than the transverse incisions recommended by some surgeons which involve division and subsequent suture of the tendons. Two long incisions are made, one on each side of the foot just above the sole, extending on the inner side from the front of the sustentaculum tali to the centre of the first metatarsal, and on the outer side from just below and in front of the external malleolus to the centre of the fifth metatarsal (see Fig. 64). These incisions should be carried down to the bones at once. The tibiaUs anticus and the peroneus