THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 32 infra-spinatus ; the sub-scapularis should not be interfered with if, by separating its tendon and pulling it down, it is possible to get the head of the bone into position, but sometimes it may be necessary to divide it. In any case the division of the muscles should be practised very gradually so as to see the ■ effect that successive divisions of the breadth of the muscle produces, as if only a portion of the insertions of the muscles into the tuberosities be left intact, satisfactory union will take place in the remainder without any necessity for suturing the divided muscle at the end of the operation. The wound is now stitched up. If there be sufficient capsule remaining, the aperture in it may be sutured, so as to help to retain the head of the bone in position. This will be of considerable help, as there is otherwise a great tendency for the head to slip forward again owing to the shallowness of the glenoid cavity and the profound alteration in the capsule; in the after-treatment special care will have to be directed to this point. The usual cyanide dressings are employed, but a drainage tube is un- necessary. A large pad of wool must be placed in the axilla outside the dressings, and the elbow is then brought to the side and pushed somewhat forwards, the fore-arm being carried obliquely across the chest. The arm is bandaged firmly to the trunk and a special large pad of wool should be placed over the front of the head of the humerus so as to resist any tendency to displacement forwards." In about a week careful passive movements should be begun, and these should be carried out at first under an anaesthetic. The elbow is grasped in one hand and the shoulder joint in the other, so as to keep the head of the bone in position and prevent its being displaced forwards. The movements may be practised without removing the dressing, and should be continued daily up to about the end of three weeks, when they should be carried out twice a day. This passive movement is one of the most important points in the treatment, as there is a constant tendency to the rapid formation of adhesions, which might, if unchecked, entirely neutralise the good result obtained by the operation. Excisiofi of the head of the bone should only be done when an exami- nation of the condition of the parts through the incision recommended above convinces the surgeon that it is impossible to put the head of the bone back into position. It is of course quite readily done after the detachment of the vessels and soft tissues described above (see p. 31), and may be per- formed either by sawing or chiselling through the neck of the bone, the soft parts on the opposite side being protected by a suitably bent broad copper spatula. Unless, however, a considerable amount of the bone be taken away, the movements are comparatively imperfect, as the long axis of the humerus is in a wrong position.