niSKASKS OF THE HIP JOINT. 169 these iliac abscesses have extended upwards from the pelvis, whereas, in a certain number of cases undoubtedly, the original focus of the disease is in front of the hip joint, and in some others it may be in the iliac glands. Abscesses may also form in the pelvis in connection with primary acetabular disease, and thence they may spread upwards into the iliac or downwards into the ischio-rectal fossa, or they may find their way into the buttock through one of the sacro-sciatic notches. CLINICAL STAGES.—It is very convenient from the point of view of treatment to divide tuberculous hip disease into four clinical stages, although in practice it is not always easy to distinguish where one stage ends and another commences. These four stages are as follows : 1. The stage in which there is no enlargement of the acetabulum or absorption of the neck of the femur.—There is here no shortening of the limb, which is slightly flexed, abducted and rotated outwards. The patient therefore tilts the pelvis down on the affected side in order to walk, and this causes apparent lengthening of the limb. The muscles of the thigh and buttock rapidly waste and their electrical reaction is some- what impaired. 2. Destruction of the cartilage and enlargement of the acetabular cavity without abscess. — Here the limb is shortened to a degree dependent on the enlargement of the acetabulum and the absorption of the head and neck of the femur. There is considerable pain, with nocturnal starting pains. The flexion is increased and the limb is rotated inwards and somewhat adducted. The affected side of the pelvis is therefore raised on walking so that the shortening appears to be very marked; a certain amount of this is only apparent and is due to this pelvic obliquity. The real shortening varies from about a quarter of an inch to two inches. As the disease progresses, the muscles, especially the adductors, become shortened and offer considerable opposition to the restoration of the limb to its proper position. In this stage would be included the cases of true dislocation without suppuration. 3. Suppuration is present.—The changes in the joint and the position of the limb are those just mentioned. There is,' in addition, an abscess or there may be sinuses resulting from its rupture. When suppuration occurs quite early in the disease, the position of the limb may be more nearly that of the first stage than of the second. The abscesses may or may not communicate with the joint; generally they do so, but in some cases the osseous deposit is so far out along the neck of the bone that the probe passes down to the sequestrum without entering the joint. A rectal examination should never be omitted when examining a case of hip disease for abscess, as the inner surface of the acetabulum can easily be palpated and its condition on the two sides compared; if there be a pelvic abscess due to acetabular disease, fulness can be quite easily made out. 4. Disease that is retrogressive or has completely subsided, but has