240 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. Fig. 6r.—Incision for E.xcision of THE Os Cai.cis. The incision should run a full finger's breadth above the sole. The vertical incision along the outer border of the tendo Achillis is only occasionally required. As soon as these have been defined, the incision is carried down to the bone throughout the rest of its extent, and the soft structures are peeled off with a periosteum detacher. The tendo Achillis is divided just at its point of attachment to the bone, or the periosteum with the tendon attached to it may be peeled off so as to allow it to retain its connection with the flaps; this of course can only be done when the posterior part of the bone is free from disease. If the flaps be well retracted, the greater part of the bone can now be cleared and the whole of the upper surface exposed as far as the calcaneo-astragaloid articulation. The only parts of the bone not well ex- posed are the calcaneo-cuboid joint and the sustentaculum tali. The middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle is next divided, when, by pressing the bone downwards and inwards, the articulation between it and the astragalus is seen, and the calcaneo-astragaloid ligament can be divided. The calcaneo- cuboid joint is exposed by dissecting the structures forward at the anterior end of the outer incision, and the ligaments are divided by keeping the knife close to the bone. The portion of the bone that gives most trouble is the sustentaculum tali; in freeing it, the greatest care must be taken to keep the edge of the knife well against the bone and to employ the periosteum detacher as much as possible, so as to avoid damage to the important structures in its immediate neighbourhood. As a rule, after dividing the connections between the astragalus and the os calcis and opening the calcaneo-cuboid articulation, it is possible to gradually expose the structures retaining the bone by using the latter as a lever, and then to turn them off the sustentaculum tali without damage. The tendon of the tibialis posticus must be carefully raised from its groove with a raspatory. After the bone has been removed and the bleeding arrested, the wound must be examined for diseased synovial membrane in the neighbourhood of the calcaneo-astragaloid or the calcaneo-cuboid joints, and any found must be removed. Sometimes the cartilage on the under surface of the astragalus is diseased, and if so, it must be removed and with it a thin layer of the lower surface of the bone. Any sinuses present must be excised, if possible, or at any rate carefully scraped and sponged with undiluted carbolic acid. As a rule it is best to stitch the wound up after inserting a drainage tube at the most dependent spot. It is always advisable to employ drainage in these cases, because a large cavity is left in which serum is otherwise