THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE. 308 any length of time. This is most commonly seen in girls from the age of twelve to seventeen—a period which coincides largely with the onset of menstruation, and the abandonment of the free and vigorous life and exer- cises of childhood. It is a period often marked by a predilection for sedentary habits, the semi-recumbent position, confinement to heated rooms and the keeping of late hours, together with the assumption of tight-fitting garments which hinder the free play of the muscles so essential to the proper development of the trunk. The condition is still further aggravated if antemia be present; fatigue is then produced by any slight muscular exertion, which in the subjects we are speaking of still further encourages an avoidance of active exercise and a recourse to faulty attitudes. One of the strongest factors in bringing about scoliosis is over-fatigue, either from too long continued standing, sitting, or walking. Nursemaids, typewriters, school children continuously engaged in reading, writing, or piano-playing, which involve the habitual assumption of a faulty position of the spine, may all develop scoliosis, should the general health be such as to cause enfeeblement of the muscles. A similar result occurs in girls who. are in the habit of riding on horseback for periods long enough to cause fatigue to the muscles of the back, and to lead to a faulty position of the spine. This is the explanation of the fact that rapidly growing girls who are at all weakly are generally recommended, if they practise horse-riding, to ride on opposite sides of the horse on alternate days, so as to exercise equally the erector muscles on the two sides. A similar condition is produced in children if they are always carried on the same arm, whereas if they be carried first upon one arm and then upon the other, the results, both to the nurse and to the child, are not likely to be injurious. 4. Cases in which the deformity is secondary to other affections of the spine or thorax.—Here the curvature of the spine is mechanical, and is produced by some alteration in that structure itself, or in the capacity of the thorax. Familiar examples are the lateral curvature that is secondary to empyema, collapse of the lung, rickets, and tuberculous disease of the spine, etc. PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES.—After a time organic changes take place in the Hgaments and the bones, so that a curvature, which at first could be easily rectified by appropriate position, becomes more and more permanent. The first change that occurs is an alteration in length of the various fibrous structures on the two sides, those upon the convexity be- coming stretched, and those upon the opposite side being proportionately shortened. In advanced cases, the vertebral bodies themselves become altered so' that each is of a somewhat wedge-shape, the base of which is directed towards the convexity of the curve. The surfaces of the various articular processes become altered in direction. These bony changes are of course permanent, and account for the intractability of the severe cases.