NEW GROWTHS. found lying between the dura mater and the cord and compressing the latter; it was readily removed by pulling on it and separating its connections with the membranes by means of a blunt instrument. Care must be taken, if the tumour winds round any of the nerves, to disentangle it without injury to them. After the operation, all bleeding is arrested, the dura mater is sewn up, and the laminee are replaced. It is well to fix the latter in place by drilling the lamina on each side below the line of section of the ligamenta subflava (see Fig. 78), and drilling the lowermost of the replaced laminse in corresponding situations; fine silver wire may then be passed from one to another. One or two sutures will bring the spinal muscles togetker in the middle line and the skin wound is closed without a drainage tube. In syringo-myelia, which is usually a form of glioma of the spinal cord leading to dilatation of the central canal, the spinal canal has been opened in several cases, but without any benefit resulting. HYSTERICAL SPINE. The spine is one of the most common seats of so-called hysterical disease, and the affection is sometimes mistaken for Pott's disease or for lateral curvature. The distinguishing features about it, however, are the absence of rigidity, the marked hypersesthesia which is usually very evident even on light pressure on the skin, and the completely normal appearance of the spine. When the pain complained of is in the lower dorsal vertebrae, in a thin patient who has been wearing tight corsets, the spinous processes may be very prominent, and the skin over them red and tender, so that a casual examination may lead to the belief that the prominent spinous processes indicate angular curvature; when the patient bends the back, however, the absolutely free mobility at once shows that this is not the case. Treatment.—The treatment of hysterical spine is the same as that already discussed in connection with hysterical joints (see p. 144). It must be directed towards the improvement of the general health, and the removal of any existing visceral disease, more especially ovarian or uterine disorders. No sort of apparatus should be applied; probably the best treatment is the Weir Mitchell treatment, without paying any special attention to the spine. SACRO-COCCVGEAL TUMOURS. Certain swellings occur about the lower part of the sacrum, which are evidently the remains of a detached foetus, and if they cau.se trouble an attempt may be made to remove thern. The true sacro-coccygeal tumours occur in front of the coccyx in connection with the post-anal duct. They are usually cystic, and may be small and lie in the concavity of the sacrum, or they may be large and project behind the anus, pushing the coccyx backwards.