258 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE. to the ounce of glycerine. The object of the iodine is to cause sufificient irritation to lead to thickening of the sac wall and its ultimate contraction and obliteration, while the glycerine prevents unduly rapid diffusion of the solution, thus ensuring a more concentrated action of the drug and a diminished risk of spinal meningitis. The iodide of potassium is merely employed as a solvent of the iodine. In performing the injection, several points must be attended to. In the first place it is most important that the needle, which should be sufficiently large to allow the fluid to flow readily through it, should be introduced through normal skin on one side of the base of the tumour; care must also be taken to avoid any spot where there is puckering or depression of the sac wall indicating the attachment of nerve elements. The needle alone is introduced first and, if the sac be tense, a small quantity, not more than a third of its contents, may be drawn off; when there is no marked tension, it is unnecessary to draw off any of the fluid. The syringe is now fitted to the needle, and a quantity of Morton's fluid, varying from fifteen drops to a drachm, according to the size of the tumour, is slowly injected. As the needle is withdrawn, the puncture is pinched up and finally closed with a small collodion dressing. After-treatment.—After the injection the child should be kept on its face or its side for a few hours until the puncture is sealed, so as to avoid the escape of cerebro-spinal fluid. In the course of a few hours however, the child is turned over and kept lying on its back for some days. The tumour should be protected from friction and pressure by cotton wool or a moulded shield. The first effect of the injection is irritation, pain, and swelling of the sac; if benefit follows, the sac will become thickened, the fluctuation less evident and the translucency diminished. It is usually necessary to repeat the injections several times before a complete cure is obtained; this may be done at intervals of about a fortnight. Cases suitable for injection.—Children who have been cured of spina bifida in this way, or indeed after excision, not infrequently become the subjects of fatal hydrocephalus. Hence it is never advisable to inject a spina bifida so long as the child is doing well and the sac is not threaten- ing to burst; moreover, the older the child the better it stands the injection. We should say that the only cases really suited for Morton's injection were those of simple meningocele in very young children in which the tumour was rapidly increasing, and also those cases of ulcerating spina bifida where excision was out of the question and perforation was imminent. (b) Excision.—By the excision of a spina bifida we understand an operation in which the redundant meningeal structures and skin are removed, the nerve elements, if present, separated from the sac wall and replaced in the vertebral canal, and the skin and meninges carefully sutured over the defect. In the hands of many surgeons this operation is taking the place of all other procedures for tumours that are increasing in size, and it is preferred by most authorities to injections with Morton's fluid. Of