358 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE. In the early stages, pain extending down the limbs, according to the seat of the tumour, is usually the first symptom. This is followed first by paralysis of motion and later by paralysis of sensation. As time goes on, the pain is associated with clonic spasms, usually accompanied first, by extension of the affected limbs, and later, as the extensors lose their power earlier than the flexors, by flexion; the condition known as spastic paraplegia then develops. The symptoms are frequently unilateral or more marked on one side than the other, and the motor paralysis is then generally on the same side as the tumour while the ancesthesia is on the opposite side. There is also usually hyper-jesthesia on the same side as the tumour in the early stages, on which side moreover the reflexes are exaggerated; in the late stages they are lost. Usually there is a certain amount of dull pain in the back in the neighbourhood of the tumour and there may be spasm of other muscles than those of the limbs ] sometimes there is spasm of the spinal muscles leading to scoliosis.^ Along with the paralysis there is, in the early stages, retention of urine, followed later by incontinence with cystitis, paralysis of the bowel, bedsores, etc. Unless relieved by operation, the patients usually die in from one to three years from exhaustion, bed- sores, pneumonia, or nephritis. Treatment.—The treatment of cases of tumour of the spinal cord must be laminectomy and an attempt to remove the growth. If left alone the patient is certain to die, and, although the tumour may not be remov- able, yet, in a considerable number of cases,—about 80 % according to Horsley—the symptoms may be relieved entirely by operation, and even those in which the pain cannot be entirely relieved will be much benefited by the diminution of the pressure. An important point with regard to operative treatment is that the pain is always referred to a lower level than the lesion, and therefore it is of great importance in operating to open the spinal canal well above the area of even doubtful diminution of sensibility. In Horsley's case for example the tumour was diagnosed to be in connection with the roots of the fifth dorsal nerve, but at the operation it was found to involve the roots of the third. Laminectomy.—The steps of the operation have already been described (see p. 288). In these cases it may very often be possible to turn up the laminae eti bloc without entirely removing them (see p. 291). When the dura mater has been exposed and when it is seen that the tumour is not external to it, this structure must be opened by a free median incision with the usual precautions against the too sudden escape of cerebro-spinal fluid (see p. 291). In one case on which we operated, the tumour was ^For further information on the subject of the symptoms and localisation of these tumours various authorities may be consulted. The first paper was published by Gowers and Horsley, in the Medico-Chiinrgical Transactions as long ago as 1888. See also Starr in The Medical News, February, 1895 5 Thorburn: On the Surgery of the Spinal Cord.