DISEASES OF THE ANKLE AND TARSUS. 237 When amputation is called for in disease of the ankle joint, the favourite form used to be Syme's (see Part III., p. 276), and no doubt this yields a most excellent stump. It is however extremely difficult to do the opera- tion without leaving some of the diseased synovial membrane behind, and it is very common to find recurrence after this amputation. This is sometimes in the soft parts, and often in the bone, and calls for a further amputation. We are therefore of opinion that Syme's amputation should be limited to those cases in which the disease is not extensive. If it be done in cases complicated by sinuses, the surgeon must remember that all the sinuses must be removed, and that a very accurate removal of the synovial membrane and the bone must be made. There is a great risk that, with flaps that are so slightly vascular and so thin, injury may be done which may lead to sloughing. As a rule, we are inclined to believe that in bad cases it is best to amputate rather below the seat of election in the leg (see Part III., p. 282) instead of doing a Syme's amputation. (4) Recovery with deformity.—The deformity generally takes the form of pointed toes, and the treatment will depend upon whether or not there is bony anchylosis; if bony anchylosis be present, the proper treatment is excision of the astragalus, whereby the position of the foot is at once rectified and a movable joint is obtained. Forcible movements.—On the other hand, if bony anchylosis be not present, it may be possible, by dividing the tendo Achillis and the shortened posterior ligaments of the joint, and by the subsequent use of gentle massage and passive movement, to obtain a rectification of the position. It is important to remember, however, that the disease is not really cured, and therefore any violent wrenching may light it up afresh. At the same time, after the lapse of two or three years without any symptoms of disease, and when there is a certain amount of mobility retained in the ankle, an attempt may be made to restore the mobility of the joint on the lines already indicated (see p. 162), but no violent breaking down of the adhesions should be carried out. Excision of the astragalus.—We believe, however, that on the whole the removal of the astragalus will yield the best results in these cases. In doing this it must be remembered that, should firm bony anchylosis be present, the removal of the astragalus is a very difficult matter, and can only be done by chiselling it out piecemeal. Tenotomy of the tendo Achillis may also be called for. TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF THE TARSUS. As we have already said, tuberculous disease is most common in the os calcis, the astragalus, and the base of the first metatarsal. In the os calcis the disease usually remains limited for a time to the bone. If the deposit be near its upper surface, the calcaneo-astragaloid articulation alone may be affected. When the deposit is in the base of the first metatarsal, an