199 DISEASES OF THE KNEE JOINT, persistent massage and passive movement will entirely restore the functions of the joint. When, however, the entire synovial membrane is involved and requires removal, the mobility of the joint is likely to be considerably impaired. In some cases, however, even this is preferable to the great pain and complete disability from which the patient suffers, and we should strongly recommend that this method be employed when a fair trial of the preceding method has failed to cure these cases of general synovial hyper- trophy. The steps of the operation have been already ^iven (see p. 109). ACUTE SUPPURATIVE ARTHRITIS. Acute suppurative arthritis is not uncommon in the knee, and, when occurring as the result of a wound in the neighbourhood or from acute epiphysitis, complete destruction of the joint may take place without any great risk to the patient's life. The condition may also occur during pytemia, but curiously enough the destruction of the joint is often very slight, whereas the risk to life is of course very great; it is not uncommon to find that the few patients who recover do so with a fairly movable joint. TREATMENT.—This has already been fully gone into, and directions given for opening and draining the knee joint (see p. 95). It is always well to attempt to save the limb, and amputation should therefore not be resorted to unless the case does not come under notice until the con- ditions are so bad that it is obviously hopeless to attempt to retain the limb, or unless the symptoms do not decidedly abate within three days from the establishment of efficient drainage. If, in spite of free incision and drainage, the serious symptoms continue and amputation is called for, this should be done through the lower third of the thigh. The medulla must be carefully examined for signs of osteo-myelitis. Should this be found, a second amputation should be performed higher up. Excision has been practised for this condition, but it is not at all satisfactory. It opens up the cancellous ends of the bones and exposes them to infection, and therefore acute osteo-myelitis not infrequently results and the case terminates fatally. In our opinion the choice of procedure lies between free drainage with irrigation and amputation. When the disease is not due to pyaemia and occurs without a wound, the epiphyses of the femur and the tibia and also the patella should be carefully examined for signs of acute osteo-myelitis; should this disease be present the medulla must be thoroughly opened up and any dead bone or collections of pus evacuated. GONORRHCEAL ARTHRITIS. This condition has already been fully discussed (see p. 98) and, as the knee is the joint in which the trouble most frequently occurs, the remarks