165 DISEASES OF THE HIP JOINT. (a) After typhoid fever.—The hij) is the joint most likely to be affected during recovery from typhoid fever. The affection is a .sub acute arthritis, and the joint is distended with fluid which is usually turbid and may be purulent. Suppuration does not necessarily occur, but the ligaments become remarkably softened, and spontaneous dislocation is not infrequent; indeed the affection is not uncommonly brought under notice by the occurrence of dislocation. Treatment.—On account of the tendency to dislocation, it is nece.s.sary to fix the limb in a suitable apparatus, and in some cases the Liston's long splint (.see Part III., p. iii) is best. The patient must be placed upon a wafer bed, as otherwise bedsores will almost certainly result from the rigid confinement to one position. As a rule, no further local treatment is necessary, and the inflammation rapidly subsides as the patient convalesces. The splint should be kept on for three or four weeks, after which passive movement and massage are employed to prevent stiffness. Artlirotomy.—When the inflammatory symptoms are more acute and there are signs of suppuration, the joint should be opened, the pus washed out, and a drainage tube introduced. This is best done through an incision similar to that employed for the anterior excision of the hip, namely, just in front of the anterior edge of the tensor vaginte femoris. For a detailed description of the operation see p. 187. The muscles are separated until the capsule is reached, an incision is made into it, the pus evacuated, the joint washed out with a 1-8000 sublimate solution, and a drainage tube (size No. 18) introduced. It is a somewhat remarkable fact that the destructive changes in a joint which is the subject of acute infective arthritis of this kind are not very marked, and, if effectual drainage be promptly employed and the limb immobilised in good position, there is but little destruction of the cartilage or inflammation of the articular ends of the bone; consequently the danger of anchylosis is not very great. AVhen the discharge has become quite small in amount (not covering in 24 hours an area on the dres.sing greater than a shilling) the drainage tube should be removed and the wound allowed to heal, when passive movements and massage should be employed. (b) Gonorrhoeal.—The hip is not infrequently affected in cases of gonorrhoea, and in this connection it is important to remember the liability to anchylosis; passive movements must therefore be made from time to time during the course of the affection. These movements must however be carefully watched in order to see whether they increase the inflammation. No splint should be employed in gonorrhoeal affections unless there be commencing deformity which requires rectification ; the patient should be simply kept in bed. The after-treatment consists mainly in avoiding anchylosis. It is most difficult to determine the best time for commencing passive movement in these cases; if it be begun too soon, the inflammation recurs, if postponed too long, anchylosis will result. The best plan is to move the