CHAPTER XVIII. PT. IV I, ANCHYLOSIS. In many of the joint affections previously described there is a tendency to stiffness, or to more or less complete anchylosis. True anchylosis implies absolute rigidity of the joint, and is usually due to actual union between the bones; but, from the practical point of view, it is well to include under this term, other less extensive interferences with movement. VARIETIES.—Anchylosis may be described under four heads : (i) That resulting from union between the ends of the bones; (2) that due to partial or complete obliteration of the synovial cavity by adhesions; (3) the form resulting from contraction and rigidity of the peri-articular tissues; (4) anchylosis from adhesion of muscles surrounding the joint to the bones in its vicinity. In the treatment of the affection we have also to consider whether the position of the limb is good or bad. 1. Anchylosis due to union between the articular surfaces.— The union may be by fibrous tissue—when the case is spoken of as one of fibrous anchylosis—or it may be due to new formation of bone—when it is termed bony anchylosis. Before bony anchylosis can occur, the cartilage must be completely destroyed, and when it happens, the joint is of course perfectly stiff. When the anchylosis is by fibrous tissue only, there is a certain, though usually a very slight, degree of movement. Treatment.—(a) Of bony anchylosis.—The only circumstances under which the surgeon is called upon to interfere in cases of true bony anchylosis are—(a) when there is much pain ; when there is deformity of the limb from anchylosis in faulty position, and (7) when the patient desires to obtain a movable joint in place of a stiff one. When the joint is in good position free from pain, and when a movable joint is not required, it is unnecessary to employ any treatment. (a) Painful bony anchylosis is of comparatively rare occurrence, but it is occasionally met with when the anchylosis accompanies a still active osteitis of the articular ends; in some cases indeed there may be an abscess in the end of the bone. Under these circumstances it will be