261 DISEASES OF THE ELBOW JOINT. on the fore-arm for fear of injuring the posterior interosseous nerve just opposite the neck of the radius. It is well to make the incisions as free as possible because plenty of room is required to enable the surgeon to see clearly what he is doing. The incisions are carried down to the condyles of the humerus, and the removal of the synovial membrane from the back of the joint is proceeded with. The capsule can usually be readily defined especially upon the outer side, and the skin and subcutaneous tissues are raised from it by the handle of the knife or a blunt dissector. The whole of the capsule over the radio-ulnar and the radio-humeral articulations is thus gradually separ- ated as far as the edge of the olecranon. The triceps is also raised from the capsule as far as the middle line of the joint, when a similar procedure is adopted on the inner side, care being taken to raise the ulnar nerve from its groove behind the internal condyle along with the soft parts and not to injure it. The fingers can then be made to meet across between the triceps and the capsule, and thus the whole of the upper part of the synovial membrane is easily separated and can be divided by a knife just at its reflection on to the bone and peeled carefully downwards; it is also divided on each side in the line of the incisions, and is cut away below at its attachments to the olecranon and to the radius and ulna. The entire posterior portion of the synovial membrane is thus removed, and the next step is to deal with the anterior portion. In order to do this satisfactorily it is generally advisable to partially detach the tendinous origins of the muscles from the condyles of the humerus, beginning over the outer one. The periosteum is incised and stripped forwards, together with the muscles arising from it, with a periosteum detacher; these structures are pulled forcibly forwards, an assistant holds the limb flexed to a right angle, and the anterior surface of the capsule is defined and separated by a blunt dissector and the fingers. Special care must be taken not to damage the posterior interosseous nerve in the lower part of the incision. The structures on the inner side are then dealt with in a similar manner, the periosteum and the tendinous origins of the muscles being separated from the internal epi-condyle and the capsule defined and separated from them. The finger can soon be made to pass across from one incision to the other between the capsule and the superficial structures, amongst which will be the brachial artery. By passing the finger across from one incision to the other and by stripping the soft parts upwards and downwards the entire front portion of the capsule can be separated and may be cut across at its attachment to the bones and removed whole. The lateral ligaments are divided in doing this, and the ends of the bones can then be easily protruded through the wound ; the olecranon is first pushed through whichever incision it can be made to project from more easily—generally the outer—and the synovial membrane of the radio-ulnar articulation is