l82 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. In many cases the wound heals by first intention and the abscess is cured. In some, a certain amount of serum may collect, in which case, if there be distinct fluctuation, it is well to evacuate it by introducing sinus forceps between the lips of the wound and squeezing the fluid out ; •closure of the abscess cavity then gradually takes place. In some, a second or even a third scraping may be necessary, but in the great majority of cases the abscess heals—unless there be a sequestrum at the bottom of the cavity—and the case falls into the second stage, of which the treatment has already been described (see p. 177). Sequestrotomy.—Should a sequestrum be felt when the abscess is opened and scraped, or should a cheesy deposit in the bone be easily reached, it ought to be removed; but any further attempt to clear out the joint is, we think, unnecessary at this stage and to be avoided. When the abscess heals, or when a sinus forms in spite of more than one scraping, the question of excision will arise, and if this be considered necessary on account of extension of the disease, or on account of indications mentioned on p. 180, it will be found that the operation is now neither so extensive nor so formidable as if it had been carried out before the abscess was got rid of. Excision.—When the abscess originates within the pelvis it is a clear indication that the acetabulum is diseased; this is usually due to a primary osseous deposit in it, although sometimes it may be secondary. Under these circumstances excision of the head of the bone is advisable because it allows free access to the acetabulum and good drainage if necessary. The abscess is first treated by making a small incision into it at some point easy of access—generally about the anterior superior iliac spine when the abscess has penetrated into the iliac fossa—and is scraped out as thoroughly as possible, iodoform and glycerine injected and the wound stitched up. Excision of the head of the femur should then be performed through an anterior incision, and when the head of the bone has been removed, special attention must be directed to the acetabulum so as to remove from it any osseous deposit, and to estabUsh a communication with the interior of the pelvis by gouging, or scraping away the bone until a perforation has been made. The steps of the operation and the after-treatment are similar to those described on p. 187. (b) When there are septic sinuses.—When septic sinuses are present, the conditions are altogether different, and in most cases excision is advisable. When the position of the limb is good, and the patient's general health is satisfactory, and when there are only one or two sinuses, an attempt may be made by proper fixation of the limb and the establishment of good drainage to bring about a cure of the disease. The patient should be put under an anaesthetic, the external opening of the sinuses enlarged and their track thoroughly scraped. It is well also to apply undiluted carbolic acid to the whole length of the sinus before finishing the operation. If two or more sinuses can be made to communicate, a large drainage tube should