201 mSEASES OF THE KNEE JOINT. from pedunculated outgrowths, may of course begin anywhere, but are perhaps most commonly met with at the lateral and lower parts of the joint in front and in the immediate neighbourhood of the semilunar cartilages, especially the internal one. For this latter reason some authors have assumed that the disease begins in the semilunar cartilages and have therefore given the name of "meniscitis" to it. It is probable however that the disease really commences in the synovial membrane where it is attached to the cartilaee. The localised osseous deposits accessible to treatment occur most frequently in the internal condyle of the femur. Sometimes there is an enlargement of the upper end of the tibia which may be reached without opening the joint, but there is usually such a short distance between the deposit and the articular cavity that this is unfortunately very rarely possible. (b) Diffuse infiltration.—This is the more common form of the disease, at any rate when it occurs in the synovial membrane, and is not at all infrequently associated with tuberculous deposits in the bone. We may divide diffbse infiltration into five clinical stages, namely, (i) where the affection is confined to the synovial membrane; (2) where it has spread from the latter to the bone, or vice versd; that is to say, when both synovial membrane and bone are diseased ; {3) when the disease is accompanied by unopened abscesses or by sinuses; (4) the stage of recovery; and (5) complete recovery with deformity. In the first stage the synovial rnembrane is thickened throughout, but the thickening may be greater at one spot than at another; the result is a general elastic swelling of the knee accompanied by signs of inflammation. This thickening is more readily made out at the point of reflection of the synovial membrane on to the femur in the supra-patellar pouch, where its edge will be found to be especially thick and to roll away under the finger; there is no enlargement of the bone and usually but little pain. Movement may be possible, but there is generally some restriction and usually more or less flexion ; the thigh muscles, especially the anterior ones, waste very rapidly. In the second stage the disease has spread from the synovial membrane to the ligaments, the cartilages and the articular surfaces, and the condition may re.sult from extension from primary synovial disease or by sudden rupture of an osseous deposit into the joint. Under the latter circumstances the' symptoms are generally very acute and were formerly described under the name of " ulceration of cartilage." The symptoms are in marked contrast to those of the first stage. There is much pain on movement or on pressing the ends of the bones together because of the articular osteitis. The ligaments are unduly loose and the joint can be moved laterally, whilst there is tonic spasm of the hamstring muscles, so that the joint becomes flexed; as the disease progresses, the ligaments are destroyed and allow the limb to be pulled backwards and rotated outwards. The degree of thickening of the synovial membrane at this stage depends upon the