THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE. the back is made. This is done as follows.: The. patient lies upon a hard surface, and a strip of flexible metal (lead, or a mixture of lead and zinc), strong enough to retain its position and pliable enough to be readily bent, is laid upon the back, from the neck to the sacrum, so as to accurately fit the lines of curve, presented by the spinal column. The lead is removed, laid on its side upon a piece of stiff cardboard, and the inner outline traced. . . . The simplest antero-posterior apparatus consists of two uprights of annealed steel three-eighths or one-half of an inch in width, and thick enough to be rigid. The gauge numbers of the steel as to thickness should be eight to twelve. These uprights should reach from just above the posterior superior iliac spines to about the level of the second dorsal vertebra. The uprights are joined together below by an inverted U-shaped piece of steel, which runs as far down on the buttock as possible without reaching the chair or bench when the patient sits down. . . . The uprights are joined above by another U-shaped piece, the upper ends of which should pass over to the anterior aspect of the eleva- tion of the shoulders, or rather to the root of the neck. "The uprights should be far enough apart to support the transverse processes of the vertebrae and not the spinous processes. They should be bent according to a card-board tracing of the back, taken as described, and then adjusted to the back. The neck and bottom pieces should be cut out in cardboard to pattern. The whole should then be riveted together and tried on the patient, who should be lying on his face in the recumbent position. Any alteration necessary in the curves of the steel in order to have the appliance fit closely to the back along its whole length can be made with wrenches. The brace can then be wound with strips of Canton flannel, faced with hard rubber and covered with chamois, or be covered smoothly with leather. An accurate fit is essential, the covering is merely a matter of detail. " Pad-plates covered with felt or hard rubber are needed. In some instances, at the points of greatest pressure (the fulcrum of the lever, etc.), the bars of the brace, if well padded, answer every purpose. Buckles are needed at the ends of the neck piece, at a level with the axilla, opposite the middle of the abdomen, and at the lower end of the brace "It is, of course, essential that the trunk be properly secured to the brace. This can be done by means of an apron which covers the front of the trunk, the abdomen, and the chest, reaching from the clavicles nearly to the symphysis pubis. The apron is provided with webbing Fi<;. 136.—Taylor's Brace Api'LIEd. (A/ter Bradford and Lovett.")