THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 238 abscess may form outside the bone without infection of any of the tarsal joints in the neighbourhood. On the other hand, however, it is not un- common to find extensive disease of the tarsus starting from this situation. Disease of the astragalus rarely remains limited to that bone, as it readily affects the ankle or the astragalo-scaphoid joints. In the latter event, the disease spreads rapidly over the whole of the tarsus. When the disease commences in one of the other tarsal bones the entire tarsus readily becomes involved. In considering the treatment of tarsal disease, we distinguish two main classes of cases : (i) those in which the disease is confined to a single bone of the tarsus; and (2) those in which all the tarsal joints are involved. Disease of the Individual Bones of the Tarsus. DISEASE OF THE OS GALOIS.—The osseous deposit here may be either soft and caseous or it may be a sequestrum. There is generally dull pain in the heel and enlargement of the bone, with fulness later on about the calcaneo-astragaloid joint; sometimes, however, the deposit makes its way through the shell of the bone to one side—most commonly the outer—and gives rise to an external abscess. Treatment.—This will depend upon the stage at which the disease has arrived. When there is no external abscess and no distinct evidence of disease of the calcaneo-astragaloid joint, palliative measures may be employed, for a time ; these will consist of immobilisation of the foot in plaster of Paris, and the usual hygienic measures suitable for tuberculous joint disease in general (see p. 114). Operative measures.—It is best, however, to advise early oper- ative interference, as it should be borne in mind that the essential lesion is an osseous deposit. The position of the incision will be determined largely by the situation of the primary deposit ; this is generally indicated by thickening of the bone, which points to the conclusion that the deposit is nearest to the surface at that spot. When the entire bone is uniformly thickened, it is best to cut down over its upper part near the calcaneo- astragaloid articulation. When there is no abscess.—Should there be no definite indication, the most convenient access can be gained from the inner side of the bone, over which a curved incision should be made with its convexity upwards. This incision is gradually deepened, care being taken not to divide the plantar vessels and nerves; the incision should not go far enough forward to endanger them. The flap is dissected downwards so as to expose the inner surface of the bone, which after exposure is chiselled away until the compact tissue is removed, when the osseous deposit is often reached at once; if not, the cancellous tissue is cleared out, especially towards the upper and back part of the bone, with a sharp flushing spoon. If cheesy material be exposed, the scraping should be continued until healthy bone