39 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW. the structures requiring division consist of the remains of the anterior part of the capsule and the external lateral ligament and the adhesions which have formed in their neighbourhood; unless there be very marked shortening of the triceps, the bones will come into proper position as soon as these structures have been divided. The wounds are stitched up, the usual dressings applied, and the limb placed on a rectangular splint with the elbow at right angles and the fore- arm fully supinated ; movements of pronation and supination are commenced from the first day, and, three or four days later, flexion and extension in addition. 'Jliese movements, it must be confessed, cause considerable pain at first, and it may be advisable to move the arm under an anaesthetic once or twice a week, so as to insure that it moves throughout its proper range. If for any reason this be inadvisable, a third of a grain of cocaine may be dissolved in twenty minims of boiled water, and injected, four minims at a time, in various spots around the joint before the passive movement is made; this will practically abolish the pain. If the patient .perseveres with the massage and movements the result is often extremely satisfactory. When, however, it is evident that the bones cannot be got into position, or when, owing to the length of time since the injury, they have under- gone considerable alteration, excision is the best practice. This should always be done by lateral incisions of the same kind as those just described, and it is well, before proceeding to remove any bone, to detach the soft parts freely, to make traction on the fore-arm, and to divide any tendons or ligamentous structures which prevent the arm from coming down. Unless this be done, more bone than is desirable will have to be removed in order to obtain satisfactory movement, and an unduly loose joint may result (for excision of the Elbow see Chap. XXIII.). COMBINED BACKWARD AND LATERAL DISLOCATION.- When there is lateral as well as backward dislocation, the surgeon simply has to bear in mind that, besides bringing the bones of the fore-arm downwards, they must also be brought inwards or outwards as the case may be. When operating for long-standing dislocations of this kind, it is advisable to make the lateral incision first upon the side to which the fore-arm is dislocated, because in this situation the adhesions are much more numerous and firmer than on the other. DISLOCATION OF BOTH BONES LATERALLY.—Both bones of the fore-arm may be dislocated outwards or—much more rarely—inwards, without any dislocation backwards. The dislocation may be partial or complete. Dislocation of both bones outwards occurs from falls upon the hand when the elbow is partially flexed, the force being applied in such a direction that it drives the bones outwards. (Generally the radius passes sufficiently outwards to be quite free of the humerus, and it is usually also slightly displaced forwards from the lesser sigmoid cavity. The ulna, on the other hand, rests upon the capitellum. In the incomplete