8o THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. of security and strength about the joint than from any actual good that it does. Should a feeling of weakness still persist, great benefit will be derived from douchittg the joint with cold water. The limb should not be immersed in a cold bath, but a strong jet of water, as cold as can be borne, should be directed upon it from a suitable distance with as much force as the patient will stand. The joint should be douched from different directions for about three minutes at a time, and massage should follow directly. Should the effusion continue to increase after the first twenty-four hours, or should it be found that the blood in the joint is not quickly absorbed, it is well to remove as much of it as possible from the articular cavity by aspiration or by a trochar and canula, with rigid precautions against sepsis. Blood left in the joint keeps up synovitis, prolongs the treatment, and thus retards recovery. In these more severe cases three weeks' rest or more should be insisted upon before the joint is allowed to be used. It is generally necessary to keep up pressure upon the joint for about three weeks after it has been tapped; during the last week of this, how- ever, the patient may be allowed to practise active movements for himself, although he must not bear any strain upon the joint. The after-treatment will be the same as that just described. 3. Whett there is obviously rupture of one of the ligaments of the joint, the case must be treated with still greater care, as there is considerable risk of imperfect union and a permanently weak joint. This condition is more particularly likely to happen in the ankle, where a part of the external lateral ligament is not infrequently ruptured. The limb should be care- fully fixed upon a spUnt specially designed to obviate all possibility of movement in any direction that would separate the torn ends of the ligament, and the further treatment is much the same as that already detailed, special care being taken not to press upon or strain the ruptured ligament in any way. It is very desirable that the person who per- forms the massage in these cases should be acquainted with the anatomical structure of the joint; massage, therefore, should be performed by the medical man himself and not by the ordinary masseur. Something like six weeks' complete rest is required for the union of a ruptured ligament, and the limb should be therefore kept upon the splint for that length of time. The formation of adhesions can easily be kept down if proper care be taken to practise passive movement during this period. To put a joint upon a splint and leave it there without massage or movement for six weeks, although it may result in the union of the torn ligament, will undoubtedly lead to the formation of adhesions which will require an immense deal of care and trouble to get rid of, and which may perhaps never be entirely broken down. On the other hand, it is perfectly possible, by practising cautious passive movement almost from the commencement, to allow the ligament to unite without any delay, and at the same time to secure a joint that is perfectly free from ad-