I06 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. synovitis with effusion are first of all to remove the cause, if possible; secondly, to remove the fluid ; thirdly, to cure the inflammatory condition ; and fourthly, to restore the functions of the joint. The cause should always be removed, if possible; a most careful exam- ination must be made to ascertain which of the causes enumerated is present. Very often, however, no definite conclusion can be come to on this point because it cannot be made out owing to the distention of the joint. This is particularly so when the aff"ection is caused by hypertrophy of the synovial fringes or by the presence of a loose body. Under these circumstances the next thing to do is to remove the fluids and cure the inflarnmatory condition. The most efficient way of doing this is by rest, and if the joint affected be in the lower extremity, the patient must lie up, and the limb must be fixed upon a splint. The rest should at first be absolute, as the disappearance of the fluid will be much delayed if the patient be allowed to get up, even for a few hours. In the case of the knee, for example, the limb should be placed on a back splint with the joint slightly bent, and the extremity elevated upon a pillow. Blisters should then be freely applied both over the lateral aspects of the joint, and over the supra-patellar pouch. As soon as one blister has healed, a second should be applied, and after that a third, if necessary, and so on at intervals of about a week. If the fluid be markedly less after two or three blisterings, massage should be carried out twice daily, and in the intervals pressure should be applied by means of cotton wool and a bandage (see p. I go). When the fluid has entirely disappeared, the joint should be strapped with Scott's dressing (see p. 119), and the patient may then be allowed to get about. The fluid generally disappears under this treatment in three or four weeks' time, but the great trouble is that, as soon as walking is resumed, it is very apt to reappear. Should the fluid re-accumulate it is evident that it would only be waste of time to repeat the treatment, and something more radical is required. Should no cause, such as the presence of hypertrophied synovial fringes, etc., be found, the patient should be again put to bed and the fluid with- drawn by an aspirator. The blistering and the former treatment may then be repeated, in the hope that no further recurrence will take place after removal of the fluid. Should the fluid, however, re-accumulate in spite of aspiration, the best means at our disposal is to wash out the joint with some slightly irritating fluid; the one we prefer for the purpose is a 1-2000 sublimate solution. This is done in a manner similar to that for gonorrhoeal arthritis (see p. 103). As an alternative to washing out the joint in this manner, or as a method of treatment when this has failed, we may mention aseptic drainage of the joint. Some surgeons indeed prefer this method to the simple irri- gation, and provided absolute reliance can be placed on securing asepsis, there is no doubt that this is the more effectual procedure. Particular