DISEASES OF THE KNEE JOINT. 225 condition according as the case is seen after the first injury or as it is one in which there are frequently recurring attacks. (a) Of a first attack.—The first point here is to replace the cartilage \i it be displaced. If the limb be in the semiflexed and "locked" position, re-position is readily accomplished by completely flexing the joint to disengage the cartilage, and then, while keeping up pressure over the latter, suddenly extending the limb and rotating the foot somewhat inwards if the internal cartilage has been damaged, and somewhat outwards if the lesion be in the external. After having thus replaced the cartilage, the limb should be immobilised in order to allow the cartilage to contract adhesions and to become fixed in its normal position. Opinions differ as to the exact method to be employed, some surgeons preferring to employ massage and to simply strap the joint, on the ground that adhesions within the joint are thus avoided, and that at the same time the muscles do not lose power; it is very seldom however that anything like satisfactory recovery follows this method. In our opinion it is necessary after a severe injury of this kind to employ complete fixation of the limb for at least two months. Any adhesions in the joint which follow such prolonged rest can be readily overcome by massage and passive movement, while, unless the limb be thoroughly fixed for at least this period, the cartilage can hardly be expected to unite satisfactorily. The best plan is to place the limb in a trough of Gooch's splinting or in a Maclntyre's splint, bent to a suitable angle and somewhat elevated on a pillow until the effusion which follows the injury has subsided. The limb should be kept as straight as the patient can conveniently bear, and care should be taken to rotate the foot well inwards. After the swelling has subsided, the limb should be put up in some suitably moulded apparatus; this may be either leather, poroplastic material, or plaster of Paris (see Part III., p. 12). In about eight weeks the limb may be taken down, and massage and passive movement employed. If there be any marked adhesions, the use of the radiant heat apparatus or super-heated steam, etc. (see p. 155), before the passive movement, is of value. Massage should be applied to the thigh muscles in particular, and is of primary importance, especially in elderly subjects, on account of the wasting from non-use that otherwise occurs. If allowed to occur, this wasting is very slowly recovered from, and in old people, therefore, it is well to begin the massage about a week or so after the injury, the casing being removed from time to time for the purpose. When this is done, however, care must be taken to keep the knee joint extended and immovable. In a good many cases the trouble does not recur when this treatment is carried out, but it is well to prohibit the patient from joining in such games as football or tennis, even though no symptoms recur, as they are very apt to bring about a reappearance of the trouble. He should also be instructed not to walk too much, and above all to avoid rotation of PT. IV. p