25 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. without attempting to immobilise the fracture, so as to obtain a false joint between the fractured surfaces, and so to maintain the usefulness of the arm. In our opinion the best practice is as follows. The patient is put fully under an anjesthetic, and an attempt is made by grasping the head of the bone in the axilla to reduce it by any manipulation that is most likely to succeed. Should this be successful, the fracture is then set in the ordinary manner, and the treatment conducted upon the usual lines Special care is requisite here in avoiding stiffness of the shoulder, which will be more likely to happen than in the ordinary cases, because of the serious damage to the bone and the soft parts in the vicinity of the injured joint. Another great difficulty is that the fracture is very likely to be , disturbed when the passive movements of the joint, which are impera- tively necessary, are carried out. Hence the greatest care must be taken to steady the fragment as much as possible by grasping it with one hand while the joint is being moved by the other. Should, however, the manipulations under the anaesthetic fail to reduce the dislocation—as they are not at all unlikely to do—the joint should be cut down upon and the head of the bone replaced in position. An operation of this sort is doubly trying to the antiseptic precautions, in that it probably involves both a compound fracture and a wound into a joint, and it should not be attempted unless the surgeon be absolutely confident of his power to prevent sepsis. The method aims at attaining perfectly free access to the joint, ascertaining and removing any cause of obstruction, replacing the head of the bone in position, sewing up the rent in the capsule, and subsequently if necessary mechanically fixing the fractured surfaces in their position. The best method of exposing the joint is through an incision which commences just external to the tip of the coracoid process, and runs downwards and slightly outwards for four or five inches along the anterior border of the deltoid. The margin of the muscle is defined and pulled outwards, the fascia beneath it is divided and the deeper parts are exposed. Should more room be necessary for the proper display of the parts, it may be obtained by curving the incision outwards below so as to divide a portion of the insertion of the deltoid into the humerus. The muscle is then turned outwards as a sort of flap, and it is easy to stitch the detached portion into position again at the end of the operation. After the deep fascia has been opened and the wound well retracted, the structures about the shoulder joint are easily identified. The rent in the capsule is visible, and the situation of the fracture is obvious. Traction should be exerted upon the arm in the downward and slightly outward direc- tion, so as to get the lower fragment of the humerus out of the way, and then it is generally quite easy, without dividing any structures, to grasp the head of the bone directly, and to make it re-enter the joint through the rent in the capsule, which can be sewn up with a continuous suture of fine catgut.