279 INJURIES OF THE SPINE. to prevent the sore healing too rapidly ; the patient must of course be kept in bed. When the counter-irritation has subdued the pain almost completely, massage, increasing gradually in duration and frequency, should be com- menced. In addition to massage, douching the spine alternately with hot and cold water is very useful. These chronic troubles are not infrequently associated with a rheumatic or a gouty tendency, and, under these circum- stances, a sojourn at Bath, Buxton or some similar watering place is very beneficial. I-I^MATO-RACHIS. Hremato-rachis or hremorrhage into the membranes of the spinal cord may follow rupture of the ligamenta subflava, caused by very violent twists or blows, or it may result from a severe blow on the back or a fall without rupture of ligaments. The blood is usually extravasated between the dura mater and the bones, but sometimes the extravasation may occur within the dura mater. Symptoms.—The condition resulting is similar to meningeal hsemorrhage in the brain; in the early stage there are symptoms of irritation, followed, as the amount of blood increases, by definite pressure symptoms. As the clot has greater room in the spinal canal, the pressure symptoms are not nearly so frequent as the irritative symptoms. Htemato-rachis may be suspected when there is severe pain both at the seat of the injury and along the distribution of the nerves arising from the corresponding area of the cord, and also when there are irritative symptoms, as shown by- muscular cramps due to irritation of the motor nerve roots. As the haemor- rhage increases, paralysis, either complete or partial, follows. Treatment.—The patient should always be put to bed at once, and kept perfectly quiet in the prone position. Ice should be applied to the spine, and ergot—in doses of one drachm of the liquid extract every three hours for three doses by mouth—or ergotinine, in subcutaneous injections of 4 gr. similarly repeated, may be administered, so as to check the bleeding promptly. A smart purge—calomel, gr. v.—should also be given, and, as in all spinal injuries, the condition of the bladder should be ascertained, so as to avoid retention of urine. Should the symptoms show no improvement under this treatment, and more especially should pressure symptoms in the shape of commencing paraplegia supervene, it is well to treat the case similarly to one of cerebral meningeal heemorrhage by laying open the spinal canal and evacuating the clot. This is done by the operation of laminectomy, the steps of which will be described immediately (see p. 288). As a rule the clot is outside the dura mater and is thus easily evacuated; should it not be found there, the dura mater must be opened and any clot beneath it removed. CONCUSSION OF THE SPINE. By the term concussion of the spine is really meant a condition in which there is a molecular disturbance of the nerve cells, leading