170 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. left deformity.—The deformity is generally that of the third stage, i.e. flexion, adduction, and inward rotation, but this of course may be much modified by treatment, etc. PROGNOSIS.—Although of considerable gravity, hip disease is never- theless often attended by recovery if suitable treatment be carefully carried out for a sufficient length of time. If however any good is to be done, it is imperative that the treatment be persisted in much longer than is generally the custom. A few weeks' or a few months' treatment is totally insufficient to ensure a child against recurrence of the symptoms when the treatment is abandoned, and two, three, and sometimes even six or seven years are required. When the case is seen quite early and treatment is begun at once, recovery without shortening and with a considerable amount of mobility of the joint may ensue, but it must be borne in mind that movement can only be obtained if the joint be kept perfectly fixed during the treatment. Any attempt to ensure movement by means of passive motion only leads to the spread of the disease and increased stiffness when it subsides. Recovery also is by no means hopeless even when the case is complicated by abscess, a very considerable proportion recovering with satisfactory joints if careful aseptic treatment be adopted. In fact, where it is possible to keep the case aseptic from first to last, the only way in which the disease threatens life is from the occurrence of tubercle else- where, usually as lung disease or tuberculous meningitis. It may be concluded that a case of hip-joint disease has completely recovered, and the treatment may be left off, when there is a total disappearance of the thickening in the neighbourhood of the joint, with a complete absence of pain and of rigidity of the muscles surrounding it. TREATMENT.—This is partly general and partly local. The general treatment of tuberculous joint disease has already been referred to (see p. 114), and we shall therefore only describe the local treatment. This we shall divide up in accordance with the clinical stages already defined. 1. Of the first stage.—The limb must be efficiently immobilised, and counter-irritation should be employed. Of these two methods rest is the more important, and should be enforced, at all events, not only by applying suitable apparatus, but by the maintenance of the horizontal position in bed. Whatever splint be employed, it is essential that the patient should not get up even on crutches, until all signs of acute mischief, namely pain and tenderness on pressure, have entirely disappeared, and the affection is well on the way to cure. The first point of practical importance in determining the treatment for any given case in the early stage is to decide whether to employ rest and splints alone, or whether extension is also necessary. This will depend upon whether the disease is essentially synovial, or whether there is