103 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. an hour prior to the massage and movement. This method will be referred to when we deal with rheumatoid arthritis (see Chap. XVI.). (c) Of cases accompanied by excessive effusion.—As distension of the joint is very prejudicial to its ultimate recovery, the stretching of the ligaments being apt to leave the joint loose afterwards, it is of great importance that steps should be taken to get rid of any fluid which is not absorbed after a proper trial of the measures just recommended. This may be done in the first instance by aspiraiion. The greatest care must of course be taken to disinfect the skin and the aspirating needle, and the puncture should be covered by collodion. It is well to blister the joint immediately after aspiration has been performed, and, as soon as the blister has healed, to keep up pressure. In a good many cases, however, the fluid will re-accumulate unless some more vigorous steps be taken. Some surgeons, after aspiration, ivash out the joi?it with a three per cent, solution of carbolic acid. Schuchardt states that he has obtained still better results by irrigating with a one per cent, watery solution of protargol. We ourselves are in the habit of using a 1-2000 sublimate solution. A small incision should be made through the skin sufficient to allow the entrance of a properly disinfected trochar and cannula of fair size. In the knee joint this is best done in the supra-patellar pouch. The trochar and cannula are introduced into the synovial cavity, the former is withdrawn, and the fluid completely evacuated by pressure, when the irrigating fluid is injected into the joint in sufficient quantity to thoroughly distend it. The finger is then placed over the end of the cannula so as to prevent the egress of the fluid, whilst the capsule of the joint is squeezed in various directions so as to distribute the fluid evenly over the interior. The finger is then removed from the cannula and the fluid is squeezed out. This procedure may be repeated two or three times, when the joint cavity is distended with sterilised water, and emptied as thoroughly as possible, so as to get rid of the mercurial solution; unless this be done, a smart attack of synovitis is likely to follow, as the sublimate solution is rather too irritating to be left in the joint. Although such an attack of acute synovitis not infrequently cures the dropsical condition of the joint, just as it cures hydrocele, it is apt to give rise to the eff"usion of a considerable amount of fibrinous material into the joint, and this may give trouble from the formation of adhesions. After the joint has been thoroughly irrigated, it should be put on a splint and blistered and treated in the manner just described; in the majority of cases a cure will result. (d) Of cases complicated by suppuration.—-These are practically cases of pyaemia, and the treatment must therefore consist in free drainage of the joint by incision and the insertion of drainage tubes. In many cases the septic condition is not very virulent and large incisions are not therefore called for, two or three full-sized drainage tubes (No. 20) being sufficient. Where, however, the condition is more acute, or where the inflammation