Il6 THE" SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. have already (see Part I., Chap. I.) discussed very fully the procedures nection with all the hospitals. The great advantage is that children can be kept there as long as may be necessary, and that appropriate local treatment can be carried out under the immediate supervision of the surgeon who originally operated upon the case. This question of securing proper hygienic conditions for a patient not only affects the ultimate recovery, but also has an important bearing upon the treatment, because, when prolonged rest and other hygienic measures are out of the question, it is often advisable to undertake operative interference at an earlier date, and upon a wider scale than would be necessary in those able to afford the thorough and prolonged treatment sketched above. Although the foregoing conditions are of the very greatest importance, they generally fail unless supplemented by careful local treatment. In the early stages of the disease, indeed, the local treatment is of greater im- portance than the general; should it be necessary to decide between the two, thorough local treatment should be practised first, and the general treatment carried out afterwards. (b) LOCAL TREATMENT.—It will save repetition if we refer shortly to the various methods of local treatment first; we shall afterwards consider the applicability of each method to the various types of disease alfeady enumerated. Palliative measures.—In the first place, a number of methods of treatment are employed which do not act directly by destroying the tubercle bacilli, but indirectly by making the tissues better able to resist their attack. In a tuberculous joint there are not only tubercle bacilli and the peculiar tissue (viz. tubercles and tuberculous tissue) produced by their presence, but there is also much chronic inflammation of the tissues around, which is caused by the presence of the tuberculous tissue, and which in its turn paves the way for extension of the disease. It is by the pro- duction of this chronic inflammation in the tissues around that the tubercle bacillus overcomes their resistance and is thus enabled to prepare foi itself a suitable soil for growth. The bacillus in many cases is unable to grow at all, or grows only with difficulty in contact with perfectly healthy tissues, but if the latter be weakened by a previous attack of inflammation or by injury (which plays its part by producing a certain amount of inflammation) the bacillus is able to grow with much greater freedom. Against the co-existing chronic inflammation.—Hence where it is not deemed advisable to take radical measures to root out the tubercle bacilli and the tuberculous tissue, it is very important to try and subdue the chronic inflammation of the tissues around, so as to place the latter in a better position to resist the advance of the bacillus. Indeed, the main feature of what may be spoken of as the " expectant" treatment of tuberculous joint disease, as opposed to the radical methods, is the employment of measures directed against chronic inflammation. We