DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW. 35 When no anfesthetic is employed, reduction may be easily effected by standing sideways in front of the patient (who sits in a chair), putting the foot upon the seat of the chair and inserting the bent knee into the bend of the affected elbow (see Fig. 12). The end of the humerus rests against the surgeon's patella, and the elbow should be slightly flexed. The fore-arm is then grasped just above the wrist joint with one hand, and the upper arm steadied with the other, and traction is made more or less in the long axis of the arm until the muscles are tired out. The joint is then rapidly flexed around the knee, the traction being meanwhile kept up, when the ends of the bones sHp into place. The preliminary extension in the long axis of the Hmb is designed to disengage the edge of the coronoid process from the lower end of the humerus, and the flexion of the elbow around the knee causes this to slip forward over the lower end of the humerus, which is steadied against the surgeon's patella. It is always easy to tell that reduction has been satisfactorily accomplished, as the bones spring into position with a sharp snap, and the movements of the joint are at once restored. After-treatment.—Unless the coronoid process be broken off, there is practically no danger of recurrence of the dislocation. Should this happen soon after reduction, it is a strong diagnostic indication that the coronoid process has been fractured. The after-treatment when the coronoid process is intact consists simply in employing an elbow-sling and applying evaporating lotions, such as the lead and opium lotion (see Part I., p. 8.), to diminish the synovial effusion. Massage may be applied to the fore-arm and elbow joint from the day following the injury, and in four or five days passive movements should be practised. The patient may also be encouraged to move the elbow for himself inside the sling, which may be abandoned after a fortnight to three weeks, when the functions of the joint should be perfectly restored. (b) Of complications.—1. Fracture of the coronoid process.—As there is here a constant tendency for the displacement to recur, it will be necessary to fix the bones by splints. The best plan in ordinary cases is to use a posterior rectangular splint along the back of the arm and fore-arm —the latter being in a position of full supination—with a large pad in the angle of the splint immediately behind the tip of the olecranon, so as to push that process well forward (see Fig. 13). Massage and passive move- ments are begun in a week, the latter being performed by the surgeon himself, who takes care to press down the olecranon while the limb is. being extended, so as to prevent it being pushed backwards. It is very rarely that the coronoid process is completely detached; it usually retains some connection with the ulna by means of the periosteum or the fibres from the brachialis anticus, and therefore this treatment generally suffices to obtain good union. When, however, the detachment is complete, something else is necessary. The arm should be flexed as fully as possible so as to approximate the broken surfaces, and should be kept in that