TUBERCULOSIS. 117 indicated in chronic inflammation, and we need liere only say a few words as to their applicability in the affection we are considering. Eest.—Quite apart from the presence of the tubercle bacillus, the chronic inflammation may be kept up by movement, by the presence of septic organisms, or by pressure of the diseased surfaces against one another. The first requisite therefore is to place the part absolutely at rest, and it is very striking to see the improvement that sometimes results from this even in very bad cases. The means adopted will vary with the joint affected, and will consist essentially in the application of suitable splints. Extension.—In many cases of joint disease, however, particularly when the cartilages have been destroyed and the articular surfaces are carious, the inflammatory condition is not kept up so much by movement as by the tonic contraction of the muscles surrounding the joint, which press the inflamed bony surfaces against one another; in fact, one of the most pro- minent symptoms enabling the surgeon to diagnose extension of the disease to the bone is this fixation of the joint; in the early stages this is not due to any form of anchylosis but is brought about almost entirely by reflex contraction of the muscles surrounding the joint. The result of this is pressure of two inflamed surfaces against one another which keeps up the inflammation in the bone; rapid destruction of the bony surfaces which are in contact also takes place. This is well seen in the hip, for example, where there is flattening of the upper surface of the head and enlargement of the acetabulum upwards and backwards. It is very impor- tant to remember that this condition of contraction is almost pathognomonic of extension of the disease to the bone and destruction of the articular cartilages. In pure synovial disease there may be very marked swelling of the joint, but there will be comparatively little interference with movement within certain limits, and there will be nothing like complete rigidity. Hence, when the bone is inflamed it will be impossible to obtain proper rest to the joint by any form of fixation apparatus. The muscles would still be able to contract and press the inflamed surfaces together and thus perpetuate the inflammatory condition. It is therefore necessary to combine with the immobilisation of the joint a moderate amount of extension of the limb; this should be just suflUcient to tire out the con- tracted muscles, to cause them to relax, and thus to avoid the violent pressure of the inflamed surfaces against each other. Many surgeons have strongly condemned extension, under the impression that the object was to actually separate the joint surfaces from one another, and they have pointed out that no real separation of the joint surfaces can be effected unless weights are employed heavy enough to inflict great injury upon the articulation by stretching and irritating the inflamed ligaments, and also to cause injury to healthy joints below. There is no doubt that this view is perfectly correct; but as actual separation of the joint surfaces is not the object of extension, and as its only aim is to tire