73 DISLOCATIONS OF THE FOOT. and the soft parts are stripped up from the front of the joint by a periosteum detacher until the finger can be passed from one incision to the other, when a copper spatula is introduced beneath the soft tissues, which are thus raised from the bone and held out of the way. The bone can now be readily extracted by seizing it with strong forceps and pulling it forcibly forwards and to one side, any structures that retain it being carefully divided by the point of the knife. Most of its ligamentous attach- ments are already torn through by the injury. The tendon of the flexor longus hallucis must be carefully separated from its groove by a periosteum detacher. Directly the astragalus has been removed, the parts come into good position, and the subsequent results are extremely satisfactory. A perfectly Fig. 31.—Wire-Netting Splint. The illustration shows the method of incor- porating these splints with the dressing. A few layers of gauze are placed directly over the wound, and then a large sheet of the gauze is wrapped around the limb; outside this the wire-netting is moulded to the limb, and when this has been done, the gauze is turned down over the free edges of the splint, and more dressing is added over the region of the wound outside the netting. In the figure above, two lateral splints of this netting are being applied. sound joint with free movement is obtained, a far better result than is got by leaving the condition alone or by simply removing portions of the bone. After the wound has been stitched up without a drainage tube, and the usual cyanide dressings applied, special care must be taken to prevent inversion of the foot, and the best splints for this purpose are either Croft's plaster of Paris splints or wire netting splints already described (see Fig. 31), which are put on immediately over the first few layers of dressing and are moulded to the part so as to keep the foot strictly at right angles to the leg and to prevent inversion or eversion (see Part III., p. 11). The chief point to remember in the after-treatment is that there is a constant tendency for the foot to become inverted, and special care must be taken to guard against this. The splints should be kept on for about six weeks, being taken off occasionally for the purpose of passive movement, and at the end of that time the patient should be furnished with a suitable boot and may be allowed to walk. The boot should have lateral irons