SCOLIOSIS. 331 without moving his feet the patient slowly approaches his body to the wall by bending the arm on the forearm ; then he slowly recovers. This passively expands the chest and causes contraction of the shoulder and arm muscles on both sides. Note.—All the preceding exercises are at first made by the patient alone. By interposing resistance to the muscular effort the efficacy of the various movements can be increased at the will of the surgeon as the patient increases in strength. 12. The patient is seated in a chair with a straight back, reaching as high as the shoulders, a band fixing the trunk to the back. The patient's back and shoulders should be firmly applied to the back of the chair. A rod or stick about four feet long is then grasped firmly by the hands, about two inches or more from the ends, and raised above the head, the hands still remaining the same distance from the ends. The rod is ne.\t lowered behind the back of the chair as far a^ possible. The hands must still retain their position on the rod, but the elbows must be bent. Alternately raise and lower (see Fig. 102). Note.—As the patient gets stronger the band will be unnecessary. This is also a chest-expanding exercise, calling into action the muscles on front and back of the chest. Series I.—Exercises over the Edge of a Table. 1. Lying down flat on the stomach on the table. The legs fixed by a strap across the ankles, the trunk going beyond the table as far as the hips. The arms stretched behind the back, bend the trunk down as far as the vertical, raise the head first then recover slowly, stretching the arms forcibly and breathing deeply to the maximum of recovery (see Fig 103). Repeat three times in succession. Rest, then repeat six times slowly. To rest, rise on to the knees on the table. N.B.—If the curvature is bad, extension must be limited to rising to the horizontal line. Exercise chiefly of the erector spinte and its continuations. 2. Sit at the edge of a table with back at edge, and feet retained by a strap, then head and back straight and arms stretched behind the back, ' slowly lie down, breathe, return to the first position (see Fig. 104). Note.—Until strong enough the patient must be supported, through this exercise. The back must be kept straight, not rounded. This is an exercise chiefly of the anterior abdominal, psoas, and iliacus, and front of thigh muscles. 3. Same exercise lying on the side ; the concavity of the principal curve downwards (see Fig. 105). It is an exercise of over correction, which is very difficult to perform and also to teach. /Fig. 105.