THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 246 will keep the metatarsal bones in contact with the os calcis and astragalus. In arranging the padding, particular care must be taken to get the foot into proper position and to keep the bones in contact. As healing takes place, the muscles contract and the tendons, which at first are much too long, get gradually pulled up and finally act very well. One of the chief reasons given for doing this operation through an incision across the dorsum of the foot is that, apart from the ease with which the operation can be done, this method allows the tendons to be shortened afterwards when they are re-united ; this however we have found to be quite unnecessary. Even were the muscles not to contract afterwards it would not much matter, as there is no longer any transverse tarsal joint and their action is not so material. Results.—The result of the operation is to shorten the foot very markedly, as the divided surfaces of the metatarsal bones are brought up into contact with the cut surfaces of the astragalus and os calcis. The functional result however is very good when healing has taken place, and, as the ankle joint is preserved, a much better result is got than could be obtained by amputation. A similar operation can in some cases be performed even when sinuses are present if care be taken to treat them as has already been recommended (see p. 239). When, however, there are numerous sinuses or when abscesses are present, and the patient is an adult, amputation is much the better practice, and this should take the form of a Syme's amputation. Complete tarsectomy.—In some cases however, particularly when sinuses are present about the heel, and the disease does not extend further forward than the tarsal bones, the operation known as Mikulicz's operaiion may be practised. This operation consists essentially in dividing the bones of the foot through the bases of the metatarsal bones, and sawing the bones of the leg immediately above the ankle, and removing the whole of the structures between these two limits—in other words it is a complete tarsectomy. The operation is really only applicable to adults, it is not so good as Syme's amputation when that can be practised, and it is not much better than amputation through the leg. The result of the operation is that the metatarsus is brought into the same straight line with the bones of the leg to which it should unite by bone, so that the patient walks upon the ends of the metatarsal bones. This makes the limb slightly longer than it should be, but it must be admitted that in some instances a very excellent functional result has been obtained. Although this operation is, strictly speaking, a complete tarsectomy, i.e. the entire tarsus is removed, yet in practice it is frequently modified to adapt it for use in cases of posterior tarsal disease—it is then only a partial tarsectomy. We shall describe the modified operation first. The patient is turned over on the side, and an incision is carried trans- versely across the sole of the foot from the tubercle of the scaphoid to just behind the tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal, dividing all the structures