268 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. mobility of the wrist, as ascertained by fixing the fore-arm with one hand and moving the carpus laterally upon it with the other; this is due to softening of the lateral ligaments and is a most characteristic symptom of a tuberculous wrist. As the disease progresses, there is a marked tendency to dislocation forwards of the carpus, and the affection is accompanied by great pain and rigidity about the joint. The patient cannot hold up the hand without support, and the wrist joint is fixed in the slightly flexed position with the fingers widely outspread. Adhesions may form in the tendon sheaths and tuberculous disease of these structures is not uncommon. Abscesses and sinuses are most frequently met with over the dorsal aspect of the wrist. Treatment.—Here again the treatment is divided into expectant and operative. (a) Expectant.—In putting the limb upon a splint it must be re- membered that there is a very great tendency to stiffness of the fingers from adhesion of the tendons; moreover, if put upon a straight Fig. 73.—Lister's Wrist Splint. This splint, which is generally used for excisions of the wrist, is most useful in any inflammatory condition of that joint. The cork pad a extends the metacarpus and carpus \tpon the fore-arm, and is only of sufficient width to support the four inner metacarpals. That of the thumb hangs down beside the splint, which is allowed for by raising the latter upon the block b. There is a lateral piece c to keep the fore-arm and hand in the same straight line. splint, the wrist will become stiff with the metacarpals in a line with the bones of the fore-arm or even slightly flexed. With the joint anchylosed in this position, it is almost impossible to shut the fingers into the palm, even though there be no adhesions in the tendons about the joint. In order to flex the fingers properly, it is necessary for the metacarpus to form an obtuse angle with the back of the fore-arm; this is a point of the highest importance and one very commonly neglected, the whole limb being usually put up upon a straight anterior splint. The best splitit for disease of the wrist joint is that introduced by Lord Lister for the after-treatment of excision of the wrist. This takes the form of an anterior flat splint of wood, to the lower end of which is glued a piece of cork forming an inclined plane with its apex upwards, upon which the metacarpus rests (s'ee Fig. 73). The cork ends abruptly opposite the knuckles so as to allow the fingers to be flexed. This splint maintains the metacarpus in its proper position and can be easily prevented from slipping down by carrying two or three turns of bandage from above the elbow over the lower end of the splint. ' Another very important point, which is often neglected and which greatly c a h