LOOSE BODIES. a few cartilage cells left from embryonic life may for some reason undergo development. These bodies are not as a rule entirely free, but are attached by a delicate pedicle to the synovial membrane; this may be so long and narrow as to practically allow the cartilage to move in all directions. Some accident often sets the body quite free in the joint by tearing across or twisting the pedicle, and it would appear that loose bodies may actually increase in size after all organic connection with the synovial membrane has been severed. Loose bodies are not un- common in connection with osteo-arthritis, but it is doubtful whether they are the result of the rheumatoid change or whether their presence in the joint sets up the rheumatoid condition. The joint most frequently affected is the knee ; the next in frequency is the elbow, but any joint may be affected. The inconvenience caused varies according as the cartilage is loose or attached, and to the play allowed it. If the cartilage be quite loose, it is very apt to become caught between the articular surfaces, when sudden and intense agony is caused, and the joint is temporarily locked. On the other hand, when still attached to the synovial membrane, it may not get between the ends of the bones, and may only cause some slight obstruction to certain movements and some effusion into the joint. Treatment.—The only treatment of any value is early removal by operation, and it is well to remember that in all such operations a healthy joint is opened, and that therefore the strictest asepsis is necessary. In former days, the operation for the removal of a loose cartilage from a joint was looked upon as one attended with the greatest danger, and it was only undertaken when the patient's life was made useless by the constant catching of the loose body between the bone ends. To guard against the serious risk to life that occurred under these circumstances, various ingenious devices were introduced, such as making oblique or valvular openings into the joint, which we need not mention here. The methods are quite out of date, for, if proper care be taken in the antiseptic manage- ment of the case, there is no risk in removing these bodies by an open incision. Arthrotomy.—The chief difficulty in the operation lies in finding the body, which slips about extremely easily; when there is no pedicle, the German name Geletikmaiise is extremely apt. Unless the body can be located and fixed before operation, it is quite possible to open the joint and still fail to find it. This particularly applies to the knee, in which the cartilage may slip behind the femur and cannot be got out. Therefore in all cases it is well not to operate unless the cartilage be found and fixed before the operation is undertaken, notwithstanding that the surgeon may know from actual examination that there is a loose body in the joint. In the knee, the best position in which to fix the loose body is on one side of the supra-patellar pouch, preferably over the internal condyle. The patient may be able to keep it in place with the finger, or a piece of