DISEASES OF THE HIP JOINT. the infection of the bone is usually comparatively slight. Cellular invasion of the superficial cancellous spaces takes place before the infection has time to spread, and this may prove an effectual barrier against extension of the disease. In some cases, however, it will be found that, although the patient's life is saved, the cut surface of the neck of the femur undergoes necrosis; the wound will then require opening up again for its removal when the necrosed fragment has separated, which will usually be in three or four months. When the osteo-myelitis occurs, as it sometimes does, in the aceta- bulum, the results of treatment are not so satisfactory. The joint becomes distended with pus, and must be opened as just described. It will be necessary to remove the head of the bone to get proper access to the acetabulum, which should be gouged out and the diseased area removed as completely as possible. The whole thickness of the bottom of the acetabulum should be taken away, so as to make sure that any collection of pus on the inner wall of the pelvis is properly drained. In all these acute cases every possible means must be taken to improve the general health. Quinine should be given in large doses (5 grains every four hours), and the other methods of general treatment described for acute septicaemia (see Part I., p. 210) and acute osteo-myelitis (see Part III, p. 175) must be adopted. CHRONIC SYNOVITIS.—Chronic synovitis is but rarely met with in the hip. The treatment must follow the lines laid down for the disease in general (see p. 105). TUBERCULOUS DISEASE. After the spine, the hip is the joint most frequently affected with tuberculosis. Hip disease is essentially an affection of childhood, more than half the cases occurring before ten years of age, and over 90 per cent, before puberty. SEATS.—The disease may arise either in the bone or in the synovial membrane, probably oftener in the former than in the latter. When the disease commences 171 the femur, the primary focus is most frequently found at the lower part of the neck just external to the epiphyseal line. It may sometimes be met with further out towards the trochanter, or deeply in the substance of the neck, or, in some rare instances, in the epiphysis of the head itself. Tuberculous sequestra seem to be rather more frequent than soft caseating masses. Primary disease in the acetabulum is also not uncommon, some authorities considering that it is quite as frequent as that in the femur, although this does not seem to us to be quite borne out by facts. When it commences in this situation its usual seat is the neighbourhood of the Y-cartilage; this structure may be destroyed, and mobility of the various constituents of the innominate bone may result.