3IO THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE. the thoracic cavity is increased, owing to the separation of the ribs, but the transverse one is lessened. On the side of the concavity the reverse is the case, but probably the capacity on the two sides is but slightly altered. The angles of the ribs on the side of the convexity become more acute, whilst those on the opposite side either remain unaltered or the angle becomes more obtuse. The result of this is a prominent ridge upon the side of the convexity formed by the angles of the ribs with the erector muscles over them. The clavicle on that side may have its curves considerably increased, and cases are even recorded where the sternal end has become dislocated. The scapula on the side of the convexity is carried backwards to a plane considerably posterior to its fellow, and is raised and som.etimes considerably tilted. The arm on the opposite side hangs away from the thorax. Subjective symptoms.—The subjective symptoms are usually slight, but may become exaggerated in neurotic subjects or in those in whom the deformity is very great. There is aching pain, and a feeling of weariness in the back and loins, sometimes extending down to the thighs. When the deformity has lasted long and extensive bony changes have occurred, there may be considerable pain, partly from the pull upon the stretched ligaments and partly from direct pressure upon the nerves or the viscera. The lung may be markedly compressed upon the side of the convexity, and patients with longstanding dorsal curvature are very apt to suffer from severe bronchitis; the heart may be also displaced, and the liver and spleen unduly pressed upon. There should be no difficulty in diagnosing this condition from tuber- culous disease, as in scoliosis there is no rigidity and no tenderness on pressure over the affected vertebrae or on jarring down through the head. Moreover, except in rare cases, there is no projection backwards of the vertebrte. EXAMINATION.—In examining a subject of scoliosis in order to determine the treatment to be adopted, a certain routine should be gone through. The patient should be stripped to the waist and should stand in a position of ease with her back to the surgeon. The spinous processes should then be marked with a carbon pencil upon the skin; this allows a permanent record to be taken by pressing a piece of paper over the skin, when the marks made by the pencil will be transferred to the paper, and this can be varnished and kept for future reference. When the deviation of the spine is only slight it is best ascertained by taking a plumb-line, easily made by weighting a piece of thin string with a small lead button, applying the upper end of the line against the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra and letting it hang vertically. Any deviation of the spinous processes from the vertical can be then easily appreciated. The next important point is to ascertain whether there is any obliquity of the pelvis. The patient is turned round and the surgeon, standing or