EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. xvi Fio. 4. The Artery of a Stump, A. The Remains of the Clot. B. The Ligature remaining three Weeks after the Operation. C. The Coats of the Artery fast degenerating into common cellular Tissue. This Preparation shows the Necessity of twisting the Ligature, to prevent the Threads being entan- gled with the Granulation ; and that, long after the Artery is closed, the Ligature will retain its Connexions to the Gra- nulations, and seem still to be attached to the Coats. Fig. 5i The Section of the Artery of a Stump. A. The Clot divided, so as to show its Adhesion to the Sides of the Vessel. PLATE VI. This Sketch was taken from a Frenchman wounded at Waterloo; the Head of the Humerus and the Acromion Scapuke were fractured by a Musket Shot. It is to illustrate the Question, whether in such Cases, the Excision of the Bone, or Amputation at the Socket, should be performed. PLATE VII. This Sketch illustrates the Second Part of the Paper on Amputation at the Shoulder Joint; it is one of four Cases taken after the Battle of Waterloo, in which the Arm was carried off by a Cannon Shot; where in each the Treatment was different, and in all successful. He belonged to the German Legion; around Shot carried off his Arm on the Field of Waterloo; in this Condition, unsubdued, he rode upright into Brussels, fifteen Miles, and presented himself to Dr. Bach at the Hospital of St. Elizabeth. When put into Bed he fainted, and remained insensible for Half an Hour. PLATE VIII. Fig. 1. Represents a Joint formed after Fracture of the Thigh.—-See the Case of Soane, and Observations on false Joints. A. The superior End of the fractured Bone. B. The Extremity of the inferior Portion. C. A new Capsule formed. D. A Ligament, having a near Resemblance to the internal Ligaments of Joints. Fio. 2. A Fracture of the Femur, followed by soft Cancer. A. The superior Portion. D. The inferior Portion of the Bone. C. C. The new Ossification extremely irregular. B. B. A soft Cartilaginous-like Matter, occupying the Canceili of the Bone.—See the Cases of soft Cancer in the succeed- ing Number.