483 THE ABDOMEN, INTERIOR. the rectum and bladder (male) called the rectovesical. In the female there are two fossae here, one between the rectum and the uterus and vagina,—the rectovaginal or the pouch of Douglas—and a second one between the uterus and the bladder, the uterovesical. The Intersigmoid Fossa.—This is a small pouch—may be large enough to admit a ball having a radius of two inches—located in the middle of the base of the sigmoid mesentery on its left surface. The opening of the fossa is to the left and downward. Fossa Duodenojejunalis.—This pouch will admit the ''first joint of the thumb." It is found at the left of the vertical or last portion of the duodenum. The opening is upward. Into these last two pouches a portion of the in- testine might work its way, thus forming a retroperitoneal hernia. DISSECTION. Incise the anterior layer of the gastrocolic omentum parallel with and just below the greater curvature of the stomach. This will open into the cavity of the great omentum. The hand introduced into this cavity will find the liver above, the stomach in front, the pancreas and colon behind, and the finger can be carried to the right behind the stomach to appear through the foramen of Winslow behind the gastrohepatic omentum. The peritoneum lining the cavity of the greater omentum then covers the posterior surface of the stomach and first part of the duodenum, becomes blended with the anterior covering of the stomach at its lower border as already stated, then loops downward to form the inner layer of the greater omentum, and on the return becomes attached to the upper (anterior) surface of the transverse colon, which it covers, then, passing backward to the abdominal wall, forms the upper layer of the transverse meso- colon. The base of the transverse mesocolon covers in the duodenum and pancreas. From this point the peritoneum extends upward to the under sur- face of the diaphragm, then on to the liver, forming the posterior layer of the coronary and lateral ligaments of that organ, also of the gastrophre^iic liga- ment. From the posterior margin of the stomach the anterior and posterior layers of peritoneum pass backward to enclose the spleen, gastrosplenic omen- tum, then on to be attached to the posterior abdominal wall, forming the spleno- phrenal ligament.