461 THE ABDOMEN, EXTERIOR. process, forming the infantile variety of rupture ; in this case three layers of peritoneum intervene between the bowel and skin ; or fluid may distend the tube, producing an encysted hydrocele of the cord. Even if nature's processes are completed a hernia may develop, pass out through the internal ring, inguinal canal, and external ring. This is the indirect form of inguinal hernia. If the hernial protrusion leaves through Hessel- bach's triangle (see page 457) and appears at the external ring, it becomes the direct form of inguinal hernia. The coverings of the indirect inguinal hernia are these : The peritoneum, extraperitoneal tissue, the infundibuliform fascia, the cremasteric fascia, the external spermatic fascia, the superficial and deep layers of the superficial fascia, and the integument. The direct inguinal hernia takes a course through Hessel- bach's triangle and directly out through the external ring. Its coverings are the peritoneum, extraperitoneal tissue, fascia transversalis, conjoined tendon, external spermatic fascia, two layers of the superficial fascia and the skin. DISSECTION. Raise the peritoneum from the iliac fossae, exposing the iliac vessels. This shows how they may be reached and ligated without opening the peritoneum. Clean the extraperitoneal tissue from the surface of the peritoneum ; it will be found thicker in the lower than the upper part. Find three fibrous cords passing from the umbilicus downward to the region of the bladder. The two outside ones are the obliterated hypogastric arteries, the middle one the urachus. The arteries return the blood in the foetus to the placenta, the urachus connects the bladder with the allantois. By inflating the bladder these cords can be easier dissected out, at the same time it will be seen that the peritoneum does not cover the anterior wall of the bladder for a distance of nearly two inches above the pubes. This area of bladder un- covered by peritoneum and separated from the inside of the abdominal wall by extraperitoneal tissue is the space of Retzius. Through this space supra- pubic cystotomy is performed.