302 A MANUAL OF ANATOMY, palmar fascia to the thumb, which, though thin and not so easily demonstrated as the four internal ones, still can be shown to have a similar arrangement to them, and to be attached to the ligaments and fibrous structures about the metacarpophalangeal articulation. Between the divided fasciculus the tendon of the long flexor passes. The palmaris brevis muscle lies superficial to the inner portion of the inner or hypothenar fascia. At the extreme web of the fingers exists a more or less distinct band of transverse fibres (fibres of Gerdy), which serve to bind together the fingers and strengthen the hand. The digital vessels will be found between the fasciculi of the palmar fascia, and their position with reference to the bones of the fingers is to be noted. DISSECTION. Remove the lateral portions of the palmar fascia, with the inner the palmaris brevis muscle, and the central portion in the following way : Draw down- ward on the tendon of the palmaris longus muscle and cut it and the fascia carefully away from the annular ligament. When the lower border of the annular ligament is passed, raise all of the central portion of the palmar fascia and separate it from the vessels and nerves beneath. When the attachments of the fasciculi are reached, notice how they split for the transmission of the flexor tendons, while the lumbricales and the digital vessels and nerves occupy the space between the fasciculi themselves. Then divide the fasciculi and remove the fascia entirely. Trace the superficial palmar arch, digital vessels, and nerves. Clean the sheath of one or more of the long flexor tendons of the fingers. Notice how the sheath is reinforced by oblique and transverse cross-bands of fibres, then open it. Examine the attachments of the anterior annular ligament. The muscles of the thumb and little finger are to be divested of their con- nective-tissue covering. The Anterior Annular Lig^ament of the Wrist. Fig. 66. This is a dense band of fibres reaching from the base of the thumb (scaphoid and trapezium) across the front of the