THE THORAX. 343 carotid, and ascend in the interval between the trachea and the oesophagus into the neck, q. v., page 104. DISSECTION. If the innominate veins have been tied off, proceed with the following (if they have not, then tie them off close to the superior vena cava) :— Divide the branches of the aorta (or if they have been cut away in the neck, remove the attached portions with the aortic arch), divide the trachea at the opening of the chest, the phrenic, pneumogastric, and the recurrent (left) laryngeal nerves. Lift everything forward and cut the aorta across at the beginning of its downward curve. Separate the trachea from the oesoph- agus, divide the azygos major close to the superior cava, sever the attachments of the pericardium to the diaphragm, divide the inferior vena cava, and re- move the heart, great vessels, adherent portions of nerves and veins, and the trachea and lungs from the thoracic cavity. Place these parts into a common salt solution for later dissection. Turn to the interior of the thorax. The CBsophag-us. See page 124. Diags. 20 to 23. Begins in front of the fifth cervical vertebra and behind the cricoid cartilage, nearly in the median line. It enters the upper opening of the chest a little to the left of the middle line and in front of the bodies of the vertebra, de- scends to the oesophageal opening in the diaphragm, and terminates in the stomach. In its course the thoracic duct intervenes between it and the bodies of the vertebrae above and the thoracic aorta below. Its length is from nine to eleven inches. Relations.—In the neck : In front, trachea. Laterally, the lobes of the thyroid gland, the recurrent laryngeal nerves, common carotid and inferior thyroid arteries, thor- acic duct (at the left). Behind, prevertebral fascia, longus colli muscle, lower cervical vertebrae (below the fifth). In the thorax : In front, trachea, left common carotid and subclavian arteries, left bronchus, transverse aorta, pericardium, left pneumogastric nerve. Laterally, pneu-