THE HEAD, ANTERIOR. 61 The branches of the temporofacial division of the facial nerve are the temporal, malar, and infra-orbital. For these see below. Two branches of the cervicofacial division are found upon the face; these are the buccal and the supramaxillary, These structures are to be care- fully dissected out. To find the branches of the facial nerve look for them in the region indicated by their names ; it is usually best to begin with the infra-orbital, and after one has been found to trace it forward to its distribution and backward to its source. In tracing any nerve of the facial backward other branches will be found and the dissection carried on step by step until all the branches are cleaned. The Facial Nerve. Figs. 2, 3, 10, 11, and 14. This leaves the skull by the stylomastoid foramen, gives off small branches (posterior auricular, nerve to the pos- terior belly of the digastric, and the nerve to the stylo- hyoid muscle), then divides into the temporofacial and the cervicofacial trunks. The temporofacial gives off the temporal which passes upward through the parotid in front of the temporal artery, where it divides into several branches, to the temporal region ; it communicates with the auriculo-temporal nerve behind the temporal artery ; the malar branch runs upward and forward over the malar bone ; the iitfra-orbital branch extends forward between the zygoma and Stenson's duct, then under the zygomaticus major and minor to supply the superior labial muscles and enter into a plexus with the infra-orbital of the fifth. See page 151. The cervicofacial division gives off the buccal to the buccinator (the real motor supply); the siipramaxillaiy above, and the infrajnaxillary below the lower jaw, the former supplying the inferior labial muscles and communi- cating with the mental nerve, the latter supplying the platysma and joining with the superficial cervical nerve. Besides these communications mentioned the branches of both divisions communicate with the branch above and