450 A MANUAL OF ANATOMY. The iliohypogastric nerve (Fig. 89) appears through the internal oblique muscle just above, and an inch internal to the iliac spine, and takes a course downward and forward upon the internal oblique. The linea semilunaris (Fig. 89) will be seen at the outer border of the rectus muscle. It is formed by the junction of the aponeuroses of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles. The aponeurosis of the internal oblique divides into two layers at the outer border of the rectus muscle for its upper three-fourths. Half of the aponeurosis passes behind the rectus with the whole of the transversalis for this dis- tance, and half in front with the whole of the external ob- Hque for the same extent. In the lower fourth the blended aponeuroses of all three muscles pass in front of the rectus. Its sheath behind in the lower fourth is then only com- posed of the Fascia of the Transversalis, see page 454. The semilunar fold of Douglas (Fig. 94) is the free margin of the posterior sheath of the rectus muscle. It is about midway between the umbilicus and the pubes (and of course behind the rectus). The aponeurosis of the external oblique joins the inter- nal oblique inside of the linea semilunaris. Actions of Internal Obliqtie,—Same as for External^ q. v. Nerve supply.—See page 453. DISSECTION. Incise the internal oblique muscle transversely inward from the anterior superior iliac spine to the linea semilunaris, and vertically from the same point to the loM^er border of the ribs, then along their margin until the outer edge of the rectus is reached. Reflect this quadrilateral flap of internal oblique, being careful to leave the nerves and arteries resting upon the transversalis. Do not attempt to separate the lov^er triangular portions of the internal oblique from the transversalis, as they are so intimately blended together that the separation cannot be done properly. The posterior portion of the internal oblique can be cut away from the ribs and crest of the ilium and left hanging by the lumbar fascia.