454 A MANUAL OF ANA TOMY. DISSECTION. Raise the rectus from its sheath, beginning at its inner margin. The deep epigastric artery will be seen entering the posterior part of the muscle from below and the superior epigastric from above. The deep artery is a branch of the external iliac, and the latter, of the internal mammary. They anastomose in the substance of the rectus and form the longest arterial anas- tomosis in the body Divide the deep epigastric as it enters the muscle, cut the nerves at the outer border of the muscle, and the muscle itself at its middle. Reflect the two portions. The posterior part of the sheath of the rectus can now be seen. The upper three-fourths is formed by the apo- neurosis of the transversalis with one-half of the internal oblique, and ends below in a free border, called the semi- lunar fold of Douglas, midway between the umbilicus and the symphysis, or at the junction of the upper three-fourths with the lower one-fourth of the rectus. The lower one- fourth is formed by the transversalis fascia. DISSECTION. Cut through the transversalis from the fold of Douglas to the anterior superior iliac spine, saving the iliohypogastric and inguinal nerves. This gives below a triangular flap consisting of the fibres of the transversalis and internal oblique attached by the conjoined tendon and Poupart's ligament. The posterior part of the rectus sheath is to be divided along the linea alba to the ensiform, then the transversalis and overlying muscles removed entirely from their attachments to the ribs, ilium, and lumbar fascia. The peritoneum must not be perforated in this separation. To succeed in this will take some time and patience. In reflecting the lower triangular flap do not take up the fascia transversalis, which is closely united to the muscle, but is distinct from it. The Fascia Transversalis. Fig. 94. This is a layer of condensed connective tissue interposed between the transversalis muscle and the extraperitoneal tissue. It is thin in the upper region of the abdomen where it becomes continuous with the fascia covering the