364- PHYSIOLOGICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL DEDUCTIONS. The Bile in the lobule is received by a network of minute ducts, the lobular biliary plexus; it is conveyed from the lobule into the interlobular ducts; it is thence poured into the biliary vaginal plexus of the portal canals, and by the transverse branches into the excreting ducts, by which it is carried to the duodenum and gall-bladder, after being mingled in its course with the mucous secretion from the num- berless muciparous follicles in the walls of the ducts. The Hepatic artery distributes branches through every portal canal; gives o ff vaginal branches which form an arterial vaginal plexus, from which the interlobular branches arise, and these latter terminate in the lobular venous plexuses of the portal vein. It ramifies abundantly in the coats of the hepatic ducts, enabling them to provide their mucous secretion ; and supplies the vasa vasorum of the portal and hepatic veins, and the nutrient vessels of the entire organ. The Hepatic veins commence in the centre of each lobule by minute radicles, which collect the impure blood from the lobular venous plexus and convey it into the intra-lobular veins; these open into the sublobular veins, and the sublobular veins unite to form the large he- patic trunks by which the blood is conveyed into the vena cava. The physiological deduction arising out of this anatomical arrange- ment, is, that the bile is secreted from mixed blood. For the portal veins bringing the returning blood from the chylo-poietic viscera, receive also the venous blood which has resulted from the circulation of the arterial blood in the hepatic arteries, and the arterial blood itself of the terminations of the arteries in the lobular venous plexus. The bile is, therefore, separated from blood derived from three different sources. The pathological deductions depend upon the following facts: — Each lobule is a perfect gland; of uniform structure; of uniform co- lour; and possessing the same degree of vascularity throughout. It is the seat of a double venous circulation, the vessels of the one (hepatic) being situated in the centre of the lobule, and those of the other (portal) in the circumference. Now the colour of the lobule, as of the entire liver, depends chiefly upon the proportion of blood contained within these two sets of vessels ; and so long as the circula- tion is natural, the colour will be uniform. But the instant that any cause is developed which shall interfere with the free circulation of either, there will be an immediate diversity in the colour of the lobule. Thus, if there be any impediment to the free circulation of the ve- nous blood, through the heart or lungs, the circulation in the hepatic veins will be retarded, and the sublobular and the intra-lobular veins will become congested, giving rise to a more or less extensive redness in the centre of each of the lobules {fig. 43. 10.), while the marginal or non-congested portion presents a distinct border of a yellowish white, yellow, or green colour, according to the quantity and quality of the bile it may contain. “ This is 1 passive congestion ’ of the liver, the usual and natural state of the organ after deatli; ” and, as it com- mences witli the hepatic vein, it may be called the first stage of hepatic- venous congestion. But if the causes which produced this state of congestion continue)