MUCOUS COAT.— ARRANGEMENT. 343 the upper part of the umbilical region under the name of transverse colon, and on the left side descends (descending coloix) through the left lumbar region to the left iliac fossa, where it makes a remarkable curve upon itself, which is called sigmoid flexure. Rectum. — The large intestine then enters the pelvis, and descends in front of the sacrum, lying rather to its left side. At the lower part of the pelvis it becomes considerably dilated, and makes a sudden bend back- wards to terminate at the constricted opening of the anus. Structure of the Intestinal Canal. The pharynx and oesophagus have but two coats, the mucous and muscular ; the stomach and intestines have three mucous and muscular, and an external serous invest- ment derived from the peritoneum. Mucous coat—The mucous membrane of the pharynx is smooth, and is continuous with the mucous lining of the Eustachian tubes, the nares, the mouth, and the larynx. In the oesophagus it is disposed in longitudinalplicce. In the stomach it is arranged in rugce (wrinkles), and at the pylorus forms a spiral fold, called the pyloric valve. In the lower half of the duodenum, the whole length of the jejunum, and upper part of the ileum, it forms valvular folds called valvulce conniventes. These folds do not entirely surround the cylinder of the intestine, but extend for about three-fourths of its circumference. In the lower part of the ileum the mucous lining is without folds; hence the thinness of the coats of this intestine as com- pared with the jejunum and duodenum. At the termina- tion of the ileum in the caecum, the mucous membrane forms two folds, which are strengthened by the muscular coat, and project into the ccecum. These are the ilio- ccecal valve. In the ccecum and colon, the mucous mem- brane is smooth; but, in the rectum, it forms three val- vular folds, one of which is situated near the commence- ment of the intestine ; the second, extending from the side of the tube, is placed opposite the middle of the sacrum ; and the third, proceeding from the front of the cylinder, is situated opposite the prostate gland. Structure of mucous membrane.—This membrane is tt 4