i 428 SYMPATHETIC THORACIC GANGLIA. pect of the heart, distributing numerous filaments with the left coronary artery, which form the anterior coronary plexus. The Posterior cardiac plexus is formed by numerous branches from the great cardiac plexus, and is situated upon the posterior part of the ascending aorta, near to its origin. It divides into two sets of branches; one set ac- companying the right coronary artery in the auriculo- ventricular sulcus; the other set joining the artery on the posterior aspect of the heart. They both together con- stitute the posterior coronary plexus. The great cardiac plexus likewise gives branches to the auricles of the heart and others, to assist in forming the anterior and posterior pulmonary plexuses. Thoracic Ganglia. The Thoracic ganglia (Jig. 50. 9. 10.) are twelve in number. They are flattened and triangular or irregular in form, and present the peculiar grey colour and pearly lustre of the other sympathetic ganglia: they rest upon the heads of the ribs, and are covered in by the pleura costalis. The two first and the last ganglia are usually the largest. Their Branches are superior, inferior, external, and in- ternal. The Superior and inferior are prolongations of the substance of the ganglia rather than branches ; the former to communicate with the ganglion above, the latter with that below. The External branches * *, two or three in number, to each of the spinal nerves, 11. ll. The Internal branches of the five upper ganglia are first dorsal ganglion. 10. The last dorsal ganglion. 11. 11. Spinal nerves. 12. Great splanchnic nerve. 13. The two semilunar gan- glia, which form by their communications the solar plexus. 14. The lesser splanchnic nerve, forming the renal plexus. 15. Branches from the lumbar ganglia. 16. The hypogastric plexus. 17. Sacral ganglia. 18. The last ganglion of the sympathetic, ganglion impar. * Careful observation and numerous dissections have convinced us that these branches are derived from the spinal nerves. We must leave the proofs for future labours.