DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 206 between the pleura and pericardium to the diaphragm to which it is distributed, and communicates in the abdomen with the phrenic and solar plexus, particularly on the left side. The left phrenic nerve is rather longer than the right, from the inclination of the heart to the left side. Posterior cervical plexus. — The posterior branches of the first, second, and third cervical nerves, send branches of communication between each other, which form a small plexus beneath the complexus muscle. All the branches of the posterior cervical plexus are distributed to the mus- cles on the back part of the neck, with the exception of a large ascending branch of the second cervical nerve, the occipitalis major. This nerve pierces the complexus, and ascends with the occipital artery, to be distributed to the integument on the posterior part of the head. It supplies no muscles. The Orbit. The student should now direct his attention to the anatomy of the orbit, and of the fifth pair of nerves. To open the orbit (the calvarium and brain having been removed) the frontal bone must be sawn through at the inner extremity of the orbital ridge ; and externally, at its outer extremity. The roof of the orbit may then be comminuted with the hammer; a process easily performed, on account of the thinness of the orbital plate of the frontal bone and lesser wing of the sphenoid. The superciliary portion of the orbit may now be driven forwards by a smart blow, and the broken fragments of the roof of the orbit removed. The perios- teum will then be exposed unbroken and undisturbed. Remove the periosteum from the whole of the upper surface of the exposed orbit, and the muscles, vessels, and nerves may then be examined. The contents of the orbit are, 1st. The globe of the eye appended to the extremity of the optic nerve. 2d. The six muscles which move the eyeball, four recti and two obliqui, and the elevator muscle of the upper eyelid. 3d. The ophthalmic artery, with its numerous bi’anches. 4th. The ophthalmic vein with its tributaries. 5th. The nerves, which consist of three branches of the ophthalmic — frontal, lachrymal, and nasal; the third, fourth, and sixth, to the muscles and the ciliary ganglion with its branches. 6th. The lachrymal gland.