COCHLEA. 305 the cavities of the bone, but leave a space which is occupied by another fluid, the liquor of Scarpa* or aqua labyrinthi. The vestibule and semicircular canals are lined by a thin mucous membrane which secretes the aqua labyrinthi. The Cochlea (fig. 35. 10.) (snail shell) is a spiral canal, which describes two turns and a half around a central pillar which is called modiolus. It is situated in the anterior part of the petrous bone, its base being directed backwards and inwards, and corresponding with the termination of the cul-de-sac of the meatus auditorius internus. The canal of the cochlea is divided into two equal parts by a thin bony lamina, lamina spiralis, which is wound spirally around the modiolus. The two half canals, thus formed, are called scala tympani and scala vestibuli. At the apex of the cochlea the two scalae communicate and form a dilated cavity, which is termed the cupola (fig. 35. 13.). The Lamina spiralis is not continued entirely across the canal of the cochlea, but is completed by the mucous membrane which lines its interior. Near to the termination of the scala tympani is the opening of a small canal, aqueductus cochlece, which passes backwards to the jugular fossa. It transmits a small vein from the cochlea, which opens into the commencement of the internal jugular vein. The cavity of the cochlea is lined throughout by a thin mucous membrane, which is continuous with that of the vestibule, but which closes the fenestra rotunda. It is filled with the aqua labyrinthi. The Openings into the cochlea are, the fenestra rotunda from the tympanum, the opening into the vestibule, the aqueductus cochleae, and the openings for the branches of the auditory nerve. Auditory nerve. — When the auditory nerve reaches the extremity of the meatus auditorius internus, it divides into two branches, 1, Ihe larger or anterior to the cochlea. Antonio Scarpa is celebrated for several beautiful surgical and anatomica monographs; as, for example, his work on “Aneurism,” “ A,u.d,t“.et 01factu>” &c. An account of the aqua labyrinthi will be found in his anatomical observations, “ De Structuru Fenestra; Ro- tunda:, et de iympano Secundario.”