297 MEATUS AUDITORIUS.— TYMPANUM. O 5 The Trcinsvei'sns auriculce, partly tendinous and partly muscular, extends transversely from the convexity of the concha to that of the helix, on the posterior surface of the pinna. These muscles are rudimentary in the human ear, and deserve only the title of muscles in the ears of animals. Two other muscles are described by Mr. Tod *, the obliquus auris and contractor meatus, or trago-helicus. There are also a number of ligaments which connect the opposite borders of the fissures in the fibro-cartilage. The Meatus auditorius is a canal, partly cartilaginous and partly osseous, about an inch in length, which extends inwards and a little forwards from the concha to the tym- panum. It is narrower in the middle than at each extremity, and forms an oval cylinder, the long diameter being vertical; and is slightly curved upon itself, the concavity looking downwards. It is lined by an extremely thin pouch of cuticle, which, when withdrawn after maceration, preserves the form of the meatus. Some stiff short hairs are also found in its interior, which stretch across the tube, and prevent the ingress of insects and dust. Beneath the cuticle are a number of small ceruminous follicles, which secrete the wax of the ear. Vessels and nerves. — The pinna is plentifully sup- plied with arteries; by the anterior auricular from the tem- poral, and by the posterior auricular from the external carotid. Its Nerves are derived from the auricular branch of the fifth, and the auricularis magnus of the cervical plexus. Tympanum. — The tympanum is an irregular bony cavity, compressed from without inwards, and situated within the petrous bone. It is bounded externally by the meatus and membrana tympani; internally, by its inner wall; and in its circumference by the petrous bone and The Membrana tympani is stretched obliquely from above downwards across the extremity of the meatus auditorius, and gives attachment by its centre and inner Da^d?oVl83t20.IT,yand of thc Organ of Hearing,- by