LESSER ISCHIATIC NERVE. 37 through the great ischiatic foramen below the pyriformis, to disappear immediately beneath the great sacro-ischiatic ligament, and pursue its course within the pelvis. From the description usually given of this artery, the student might imagine that its course was extremely ec- centric, going out of the pelvis and then going in. But if he refer again to his skeleton and to the subject, he will see that the artery forms the most gentle curve imaginable in this part of its course; and that its various relation to the pelvis depends entirely upon the projection inwards of the spine of the ischium, upon which the artery, with its vein and nerve, rest in this region. Upon entering, then, the lesser ischiatic foramen, the internal pudic artery crosses the lower part of the ob- turator interims muscle to the ramus of the ischium, along which, and the ramus of the pubis, it ascends to the symphisis. Its branches are distributed to the perineum. The Veins, as in all the secondary arteries of the body, are placed by the sides of the arteries in pairs, which are called “ voice comites.” Nerves of the Gluteal Region. The Gluteal nerve (Jig. 4.11 .,Jlg. 6. 2.) is a branch of the lumbo-sacral (5th lumbar): it leaves the pelvis with the gluteal artery, and distributes filaments with each arterial branch. The Lesser ischiatic nerve [fig. 4. 13. Jig. 6. 6.) is a branch of the sacral plexus ; it passes out of the pelvis through the great sacro-ischiatic foramen beneath the pyriformis muscle, and divides into four sets of branches. 1st. Inferior gluteal, supplying the lower part of the gluteus maxim us. 2. Internal posterior cutaneous, a branch that winds around the tuberosity of the ischium, and supplies the integument of the perineum and of the inner and posterior side of the thigh. 3. Middle pos- terior cutaneous, one or two branches which pierce the fascia, and run down the middle of the posterior aspect of the thigh, supplying the integument. 4. The proper continuation of the nerve upon the flexor muscles as far as the popliteal region.