FOETAL LUNGS.— HEART. M2 terminate at the junction of the jugular and subclavian vein at each side. These vessels he considers the “ ab- sorbent ducts of the glands ; they are the carriers of the fluid from the thymus into the veins.” Sir Astley Cooper concludes his anatomical description of this gland with the following interesting physiological obsei’vation : — “ As the thymus secretes all the parts of the blood, viz. albumen, fibrine, and particles, is it not probable that the gland is designed to prepare a fluid well fitted for the foetal growth and nourishment from the blood of the mother, before the birth of the fcetus, and consequently before cbyle is formed for food? — and this process con- tinues for a short time after birth, the quantity of fluid secreted from the thymus gradually declining as that of chylification becomes perfectly established.” The Lungs, previously to the act of inspiration, are dense and solid in structure, and of a deep red colour; their specific gravity is greater than water, in which they sink to the bottom, whereas lung which has respired will float upon that fluid. The specific gravity is, however, no test of the real weight of the lung; the respired lung being actually heavier than the fcetal. Thus the weight of the fcetal lung, at about the middle period of uterine life, is to the weight of the body as 1 to 60.* But after respiration, the relative weight of the lung to the entire body is as 1 to 30. The Heart of the fcetus is large in proportion to the size of the body; it is also developed very early, repre- senting at first a simple vessel, and undergoing various degrees of complication until it arrives at the compound character which it presents after birth. The two ventricles form, at one period, a single cavity, which is afterwards divided into two by the septum ventriculorum. The two auricles communicate up to the moment of birth, the septum being incomplete, and leaving a large opening between them, the foramen ovale (foramen of Botal f). * Cruveilhier, Anatomie Descriptive, vol. ii. p. 621. t Leonard Botal, of Piedmont, was the first of the moderns who gave an account of this opening in a work published in 1565. His description is very imperfect. The foramen was well known to Galen.