31 GLUTEAL REGION.—DISSECTION. Such an operator should be forewarned that a variety in the distribution of the arteries sometimes occurs in the vicinity of the femoral ring; and unless he be guarded, his reputation may be for ever destroyed by an unfortu- nate complication of this kind. This variety consists in the origin of the obturator artery, from the epigastric immediately above the femoral ring. The artery arising in this situation, descends most frequently in contact with the external iliac vein, and would therefore be placed to the outer side of the hernial sac, and be comparatively safe. But sometimes the obturator encircles the ring in its course to the obturator foramen, winding along on the margin of Gimbernat’s ligament, and would necessarily occupy a very dangerous position in the operation, actually encircling the neck of the hernial sac, and might be wounded by the most skilful operator. Therefore the safety of the patient demands that the surgeon should always conduct his operation as if his patient were the subject of this anomalous distribution, and he may then reflect upon his conduct even after an unsuccessful issue with confidence and satisfaction.* Gluteal Region. The subject being turned on its face, and a block placed beneath the pubis to support the pelvis, the student commences the dissection of this region, by carrying an incision from the apex of the coccyx along the crest of the ilium to its anterior superior spinous process, or vice versa, if he be on the left side. He then makes an incision from the posterior fifth of the crest of the ilium, to the apex of the trochanter major: this marks the upper border of the gluteus maxi- mus; and a third incision from the apex of the coccyx along the fleshy margin of the lower border of the gluteus maximus, to the outer side of the thigh, about four inches below the apex of the tro- chanter major. He then reflects the integument, superficial fascia, and deep fascia, which latter is very thin over this muscle, from the gluteus maximus, following rigidly the course of its fibres; and having exposed the muscle in its entire extent, he dissects the integument and superficial fascia from off the deep fascia which binds down the gluteus medius, the other portion of this region. * 1 he author has met with five or six instances of this dan- gerous distribution in about 300 bodies, which is a large average. In a preparation now before him, a large branch of communication between the epigastric and obturator arteries takes that remarkable course along the margin of Gimbernat’s ligament, leaving the femoral ring to its outer side. C 4;