479 APPENDIX. In the nipple the excretory ducts are surrounded by a tissue analogous to the dartos of the scrotum, to which they owe their power of ereetility. There is no appearance of any structure resembling erectile tissue. Vessels and Nerves The mammae are supplied with arteries from the thoracic branches of the axillary, from the intercostals, and :from the internal mammary. The Lymphatics follow the border of the pectoralis major to the axillary glands. The Nerves are derived from the thoracic, and intercostals. Salivary Glands. The Salivary glands, are the parotid, submaxillary, and sublingual. The Parotid gland is described at page 164. The Submaxillary gland is situated in the posterior angle of the submaxillary triangle of the neck. It rests upon the hyo-glossus and mylo-hoideus muscles, and is covered in by the body of the lower jaw iind by the deep cervical fascia. It is separated from the parotid gland >y the stylo-maxillary ligament, and from the sublingual by the mylo-hyoideus muscle. Embedded amongst its lobules is the facial artery and the sub- maxillary ganglion. The Excretory duct (Wharton’s,) of the submaxillary gland, passes ibliquely forwards behind the mylo-hyoideus muscle, and resting upon he hyo-glossus to the papilla situated at each side of the fraenum gua?. It is in contact throughout its course with the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. The Sublingual gland is situated beneath the mucous membrane of he floor of the mouth, on each side of the frasnum linguae. It is in relation, above, with the mucous membrane ; in front, with he depression on each side of the symphisis of the lower jaw; ex- ernally, with the mylo-hyoideus muscles; and internally, with the ingual nerve and genio-hyo-glossus muscle. It pours its secretion into the mouth by seven or eight small ducts, vhich open upon the mucous membrane on each side of the fraenum inguae. Structure. — The salivary are conglomerate glands, and consist if lobes, which are made up of angular lobules, and these of still smaller lobules. The most minute lobule is apparently composed of granules, which ire ccecal vesicles having each a minute duct. These minute ducts unite to form lobular ducts, and the lobular ducts constitute by their jnion a single excretory duct. The ccecal vesicles are connected by cellular tissue, so as to form a ninute lobule; the lobules are held together by a more condensed ;ellular layer; and the larger lobes are enveloped by a dense cellulo- ibrous capsule, which is firmly attached to the deep cervical fascia. Vessels and Nerves.—The parotid gland is supplied with arteries