AMFHI-ARTIIROSIS. — DIARTHROSIS. 447 other, or with the occipital; and sutura squamosa, the scale-like connection of the temporal bone with the parietal. Amphi-arthrosis both; apSpua-K;,) is a form of joint which receives its name from being intermediate be- tween synarthrosis or the fixed form of articulation and the diarthrosis or moveable joint. It is characterised by having an intervening substance between the contiguous ends of the bones, and permitting of only a slight or obscure degree of motion. The instances of this articulation are, the connection between the bodies of the vertebrae, the union of the two first pieces of the sternum and the sacro-iliac and pubic symphises (a-w, together; <pvu, to grow). Diarthrosis (8j«, through; apOpuau;,) is the moveable tform of articulation, and constitutes the greater pro- i portion of the joints of the body. The degree of motion permitted by these articulations has given rise to their division into three groups. 1. Arthrodia, in which the extent of motion is limited; <as in the articulations of both extremities of the clavicle, and ribs; in the articulations of the radius with the ulna; of the fibula with the tibia; of the articular processes of the vertebrae ; and of the bones of the carpus and tarsus with each other, and with the metacarpal bones. 2. Ginglymus (yiyy\vg.o<;, a hinge,) or hinge-joint, is the movement of bones upon each other in two directions only, viz. forwards and backwards; but the degree of mo- tion may be very considerable. The instances of this form of joint are numerous ; they comprehend, the elbow, wrist, metacarpal and phalangeal joints in the upper ex- tremity ; and the knee, ankle, metatarsal and phalangeal oints in the lower extremity. The lower jaw may also je admitted in this category, as partaking more of the iharacter of the hinge-joint than the less moveable ar- hrodia. The form of the ginglymoid joint is somewhat quadri- ateral, and each of its four sides is provided with a 1 iga- nent, which is named from its position, anterior, posterior, ntemal, or external lateral. The lateral ligaments are hick and strong, and are the chief bond of union between