posterior TIBIAL REGION. 54- pierces the deep fascia, and divides into the two peroneal cutaneous nerves of the foot; hence “ cutaneous.” The Peroneal cutaneous nerves, 15., are distributed to the integument on the dorsum of the foot, and to all the toes; the internal supplying one and a half, and the external three and a half. Posterior Tibial Region. This region is best dissected by making an incision from the middle of the popliteal space, down the middle of the posterior part of the leg, to the tuberosity of the os calcis, bounding it inferiorly by a transverse incision to each malleolus. Turning aside the two flaps of integument, the superficial fascia is brought into view, and between its two layers in the middle line of the calf, the external saphenous vein and nerve. The External saphenous vein (fig. 5. 8.) commences by small branches on the outer border of the foot, ascends behind the external malleolus towards the groove between the two bellies of the gastrocnemius, and terminates b}' piercing the deep fascia in the middle of the popliteal space, and opening into the popliteal vein. The External saphenous nerve (fig. 5. 7. fig. 6. 16.) will be found lying by the side of this vein. It is formed by the union of two branches, communicans poplitei and com- municans peronei, from the two divisions of the great ischiatic nerve. The nerve thus formed pierces the deep fascia below the fleshy part of the gastrocnemius muscle, and descends by the side of the external saphe- nous vein, supplying the integument in its course to the outer border of the foot to which its branches are distri- buted, communicating with the external peroneal cuta- neous nerve. The Deep fascia, in the upper part of this region, is thin: below it becomes thicker. It is connected on each side with the tibia and fibula, and at the ankle forms the internal and external annular ligaments. If the deep popliteal nerve. 10. Its sural branches. 11. The posterior tibial nerve, dividing inferiorly into the two plantar nerves 12. 13. The anterior tibial nerve. 14. The musculo-cutaneous nerve, its muscu- lar portion. 15. Its cutaneous portion. 16. The external saphenous nerve, formed by the union of the communicans poplitei, and com- municans peronei.