PORTAL VEIN. 359 * on which the duct and artery are placed, the vein on the opposite side of its cylinder being in contact with capsular surfaces of the lobules. The portal vein being thus separated from the lobules, all around in the larger canals, and for one third of its cylinder in the smaller, forms a plexus which ramifies in the capsule of Glisson, and has the effect of bringing the vein in relation with all the lobules forming the canal. The branches of the vein forming this plexus which extends throughout the whole course of the canals, are the vaginal, and from the plexus are given off the inter-lobular veins opposite each inter- lobular space. From the side of the vein which is in contact with the lobules in the smaller canals, the inter-lobular veins are given off directly to the inter-lobular spaces, no vaginal branches or plexus being necessary. If the smaller portal veins be laid open, the outline of the lobules bounded by the inter-lobular fissures will be seen through their coats, and the opening of a venous branch will be ob- served to correspond with each inter-lobular space. “ The Inter-lobular branches (Jig. 43. 5. 5.) of the portal vein cover, with their ramifications, the whole external surface of the lobules, with the exception of their bases, and of those extremities of the superficial lobules which appear on the surfaces of the liver. The freest communications take place between these vessels; when successfully injected, which can be done with size only, the inter- lobular fissures in which they are contained, whether examined on the surfaces of the liver or on the surface of a section, are coloured with the injection. Mercury thrown into a large branch of the portal vein returns by other large branches. This communication takes place through the medium of the inter-lobular branches; for though the vaginal branches in the same canal anastomose freely with each other, yet those of one canal communicate with those of another through the medium of the intervening inter-lobular branches alone. The inter-lobular veins also form communications between the lobular veins of a lobule and those of contiguous lobules. Hence it appears that the freest anastomoses exist between all the branches of the portal vein, and that the inter-lobular branches form the medium of com- munication. “ When the portal vein is imperfectly injected, and the venous circles, formed by its inter-lobular branches around the lobules, are not brought into view, these branches are seen in the spaces, and three or four smaller branches are seen shooting into the fissures communi- ty from each of the three vessels seen entering one of the inter- i lobular fissures. 9. The cellular tissue, Glisson’s capsule, by which t they are all surrounded. It will be observed that the boundaries of ) the canal in which the portal vein is lodged, are formed by the sides ff the lobules and inter-lobular fissures, and not by the bases of the 1! obules, as are those of the sub-lobular veins. 10. A lobule in the ;tate of “ passive congestion,” or “ hepatic venous congestion.” 11. A obule in the state of portal venous congestion. 12. The patches in- lr licating the existence of “ active congestion.”