Middle And inferior cervical ganglia. 425 The Inferior or descending branch, 3., sometimes two, is the cord of communication with the middle cervical ganglion. The External branches are numerous, and may be divided into two sets : 1. Those which communicate with the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and lingual nerves ; and, 2. those which communicate with the three first cervical nerves, 4. The Internal branches are three in number: 1. Pha- ryngeal, to assist in forming the pharyngeal plexus; 2. Laryngeal, to join the superior laryngeal nerve and its branches ; and, 3. The superior cardiac nerve, 6., or nervus superficial^ cordis. The Anterior branches accompany the carotid artery with its branches around which they form intricate plexuses; they are called, from the softness of their tex- ture, nervi molles. The Middle cervical ganglion (thyroid ganglion) is of small size, and is sometimes altogether wanting. It is situated opposite the fifth cervical vertebra, and rests upon the inferior thyroid artery. This relation is so constant, as to have induced Haller to name it the “ thyroid gang- lion.” Its Superior branch, 3., or branches, ascend to commu- nicate with the superior cervical ganglion. Its Inferior branches descend to join the inferior cervical ganglion. Its External branches communicate with the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves. Its Internal branch, 7., is the middle cardiac nerve, nervus cardiacus magnus. The Inferior cervical ganglion (vertebral ganglion) is much larger than the preceding, and is constant in its existence. It is of a semilunar form, and is situated upon the base of the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, immediately behind the vertebral artery : hence its title to the designation “ vertebral ganglion'.' Its Superior branches communicate with the middle i cervical ganglion. The Inferior branches pass some before and some behind the subclavian artery, to join the first thoracic ganglion. The External branches consist of two sets ; one which