LIGAMENTS OF THE LARYNX. 314 The Epiglottis (sTrcyXwTTj?, upon the tongue) is a fibro- cartilage of a yellowish colour, studded with a number of small mucous glands, which are lodged in shallow pits upon its surface. It is shaped like a cordate leaf, and is placed immediately in front of the opening of the larynx, which it closes completely when the larynx is drawn up beneath the base of the tongue. It is attached by its point to the receding angle, between the two alae of the thyroid cartilage. Two small cartilaginous tubercles (cuneiform) are often found in the folds of the mucous membrane which bound the opening of the larynx laterally. Ligaments. — The ligaments of the larynx are nume- rous, and maybe arranged into four groups: 1. Those which articulate the thyroid with the os hyoides. 2. Those which connect it with the cricoid. 3. Ligaments of the arytenoid cartilages. 4. Ligaments of the epiglottis. 1. The ligaments which connect the thyroid cartilage with the os hyoides are three in number. The two Thyro-hyoidean ligaments pass between the superior cornua of the thyroid and the extremities of the greater cornua of the os hyoides: a sesamoid bone is found in each. The Thyro-hyoidean membrane is a broad membranous layer, occupying the entire space between the thyroid cartilage and os hyoides. It is pierced by the superior laryngeal nerve and artery. 2. The ligaments connecting the thyroid to the cricoid cartilage are also three in number : — Two Capsular ligaments, with their synovial mem- branes, which form the articulation between the inferior cornua of the thyroid and the sides of the cricoid, and the crico-thyroidean membrane, through which the operation of laryngotomy is performed. The latter is sometimes crossed by a small artery. 3. The ligaments of the arytenoid cartilages are four in number: — Two Capsular ligaments and synovial membranes, which articulate the arytenoid cartilages with the cricoid; and the thyro-arytenoid ligaments, or chorda vocales, which pass backwards from the receding angle of the thyroid