385 PELVIC FASCIA. quarters of an inch in length, and passes forwards between the prostate gland and the lining membrane of the urethra, to terminate near its fellow of the opposite side in the sinus pocularis. If the bladder and rectum be separated from their lateral connec- tions and turned down, the attachments of the pelvic fascia and the levator ani muscle may next be seen and examined. The Pelvic fascia is continuous with the iliac fascia along the border of the pelvis, and is prolonged down- wards, so as to line the interior of its cavity. At its lower part it is reflected from the sides of the pelvis upon the rectum, the base of the bladder, and prostate gland, forming the lateral true ligaments of the bladder. In front it forms its anterior true ligaments. If this fascia be carefully raised, a thin layer of muscular fibres will be seen beneath it, which should now be dissected. The Levator ani is a thin plane of muscular fibres, situated on each side of the pelvis. It arises from the inner surface of the pubis, from the spine of the ischium, and between those points from the angle of union between the obturator and the pelvic fascia. Its fibres descend to be inserted into a raphe in front of the coccyx, into the lower part of the rectum, base of the bladder, and pros- tate gland. Wilson’s and Guthrie’s muscles (the compressor ure- thrae) are situated between the two layers of the deep perineal fascia, and are described with the perineum. Actions. — The use of the levator ani is expressed in | its name. It is the antagonist to the diaphragm and the : rest of the expulsory muscles, and serves to support the ! ' rectum and vagina during their expulsive efforts. In the [operation for lithotomy on children and emaciated per- sons, its action is often very remarkable, contracting spasmodically, and producing a fluttering which is very annoying to the operator. If the levator ani muscle be separated from its origin, ind turned downwards, the obturator fascia w ill be seen aeneath, and the mode of origin of the middle fibres of he muscle may be examined. The obturator fascia i finds down the internal obturator muscle, and covers in he internal pudic vessels and nerve. s 1