ALIMENTARY CANAL. — VESSELS. NERVES. 347 neum. The first or oblique portion of the duodenum is also completely included by the serous membrane. The de- scending portion has merely a partial covering on its ante- rior surface. The transverse portion is also behind the peritoneum, being situated between the two layers of the transverse meso-colon, and has but a partial covering. The rest of the small intestines are completely invested by it. The ccecum and commencement of the colon have the serous membrane only on their anterior surface: to the rest of the colon it forms a complete covering. The upper third of the rectum is completely enclosed by the peritoneum ; the middle third has only an anterior covering, and the inferior third none whatsoever. The expression complete covering, in the above descrip- tion, must be received with limitation. No peritoneal investment can be perfectly complete, as a certain space must necessarily be left uncovered in every viscus for the entrance and exit of vessels. This spot corresponds with the point of reflection of the serous membrane. Vessels and Nerves.—The Arteries of the alimentary canal, as they supply the tube from above downwards, are the ascending pharyngeal, superior thyroid, and inferior thyroid in the neck; oesophageal in the thorax ; gastric, hepatic, splenic, superior and inferior mesenteric in the abdomen ; and inferior mesenteric, iliac, and internal pudic in the pelvis. The Veins from the abdominal alimentary canal unite to form the vena portae. The Lymphatics open into the receptaculum chyli. The Nerves of the pharynx and oesophagus are derived from the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and sym- pathetic. The nerves of the stomach are the pneumogastric and sympathetic branches from the solar plexus ; and those of the intestinal canal are the superior and inferior mesenteric and hypo-gastric plexuses. The extremity of the rectum is supplied by the coccygeal nerves from the spinal cord. Dissection. — I he student should now raise the transverse colon, and pin it upwards upon the chest. He should then draw the whole of the small intestines over to the left side. Then let him dissect the « 6