232 FALX. — TENTORIUM. forming a sharp curved edge below, is attached in front to the crista galli process of the ethmoid bone, and behind to the tentorium cerebelli. The Tentorium cerebelli (tentorium, a tent,) is a roof of dura mater, thrown across the cerebellum and attached to the margin of the petrous portion of the temporal bone at each side, to the transverse ridge of the occipital bone, which lodges the lateral sinuses behind, and to the clinoid processes in front. It supports the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, and prevents their pressure * on the cerebellum leaving only a small opening anteriorly, for the transmission of the crura cerebri. The Falx cerebelli is a small process attached to the vertical ridge of the occipital bone beneath the lateral sinus, and to the tentorium. It is received into the indent- ation between the two lobes of the cerebellum. The student cannot see the two latter processes until the brain is removed ; but he should consider the attachments of the tentorium upon the dried skull, for he will have to divide it in the removal of the brain. He should now proceed to that operation, for which pur- pose the dura mater is to be incised all round, on a level with the section through the skull, and the scissors are to be carried deeply between the hemispheres of the brain in front, to cut through the anterior part of the falx; then draw the dura mater backwards, and leave it hanging by its attachment to the tentorium. Raise the anterior lobes of the brain carefully with the hand, and lift the olfac- tory bulbs from the cribriform fossae with the handle of the scalpel. Then cut across the two optic nerves and internal carotid arteries. Next divide the infundibulum and third nerve, and carry the knife along the margin of the petrous bone at each side, so as to divide the tentorium near its attachment. Cut across the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth nerves in succession with a sharp knife, and pass the scalpel as far down as possible into the vertebral canal, to sever the spinal cord, cutting first to one side and then to the other, in order to divide the vertebral arteries and first cervical nerves. Then let him press the cerebellum gently forwards with the fingers of the right hand, the hemispheres being supported with the left, and the brain will roll into his hand. We shall now complete the description of the dura mater to avoid perplexing the student by recurring to it in another place; but we would counsel him to commence * In leaping animals, as the feline and canine genera, the tento- rium forms a bony tent.