92 BRANCHES. AXILLARY PLEXUS. elbow, where it perforates the fascia, and divides into branches, which run behind the median cephalic vein, and supply the integument on the outer side of the fore-arm as far as the hand. It communicates on the fore-arm with branches of the internal cutaneous. The Median nerve (Jig. 7. 16.) is so called, because it runs along the middle of the arm to the palm of the hand, and is, therefore, intermediate in position, between the radial and ulnar nerves. It commences by two heads, which embrace the axillary artery ; lies at first to the outer side of the brachial artery, which it crosses at its middle, and descends on its inner side to the bend of the elbow. It then passes between the two heads of the pronator radii teres and flexor sublimis digitorum muscles, and runs down the fore-arm, between the flexor sublimis and pro- fundus, and beneath the annular ligament, to the palm of the hand. The Internal cutaneous nerve (Jig. 8.15.) is intended for the supply of the integument, on the inner side of the fore-arm as far as the hand : it has already been described in the superficial anatomy of the bend of the elbow (page 77.). The Ulnar nerve runs down the inner side of the arm, to the groove between the internal condyle and olecranon, resting upon the internal head of the triceps, and accom- panied by tbe inferior profunda artery. At the elbow it is superficial, and supported by the inner condyle, against which it is easily compressed, giving rise to the thrilling sensation along the inner side of the fore-arm and little finger, ascribed to striking the “ funny bone.” At this point the nerve passes between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle. If these nerves together with the brachial artery be drawn aside, the two posterior branches of the plexus, circumflex and musculo-spiral, are brought into view. The Circumflex nerve passes over the border of the subscapularis muscle, and winds around the neck of the humerus, with the posterior circumflex artery, supplying the deltoid muscle and shoulder-joint. The Musculo-spiral nerve is the largest branch of the plexus: it winds around the humerus in the spiral groove, accompanied by the superior profunda artery, to the space