322 SURGERY OE THE ABDOMEN. If the external oblique muscle be dissected on both sides, a white tendinous line will be seen along the middle of the abdomen, extending from the ensiform cartilage to the pubis: this is the tinea alba. A little external to it, on each side, two curved lines will be observed extend- ing from the sides of the chest to the pubis, and bound- ing the recti muscles : these are the tinece semilunares. Some transverse lines, linece transversce, three or four in number, connect the lineae semilunares with the linea alba. The Linea semilunaris was the situation formerly chosen for the operation of tapping the abdomen in dropsy, para- centesis abdominis. But being merely the outer margin of a muscle, it is liable to alter its position with the ex- pansion to which the whole of the abdominal muscles are subjected in that disease. The rectus may, in this way, be spread over the whole anterior half of the abdomen, and the linea semilunaris become so much displaced as hardly to be discerned by external examination. Again, the sheath of the rectus contains a large artery (epigastric); and with the increased breadth of the muscle, this also changes its course. In a few instances the artery has been wounded in consequence of this change of position, and the operation in the linea semilunaris is, therefore, altogether abandoned. Ventral hernia may occur in the course of this line. The Linea alba is now selected for the operation of paracentesis abdominis. Being in the middle line it can- not change its place by distension, and there is no risk of wounding an artery. The spot selected for the operation is usually midway between the umbilicus and pubis. It is performed by making a small incision with a bistoury through the integument and superficial fascia, and then introducing the trochar. This line is also the seat of operation for puncturing the bladder above the pubis ; which is performed in the same manner as paracentesis abdominis. The High operation for lithotomy, a practice wholly disused in this country, has also its seat in the linea alba. The Ccesarian section for opening the uterus and re- moving the foetus, an "operation which is now becoming