365 STRUCTURE. SPLEEN. R 3 or be from the beginning of a more active kind, the congestion will extend through the lobular venous plexuses “ into those branches of the portal vein situated in the inter-lobular fissures, but not to those in the spaces, which, being larger, and giving origin to those in the fissures, are the last to be congested.” In this second stage the liver has a mottled appearance (fig. 43. 12.1, the noncongested substance is arranged in isolated, circular, and ramose patches, in the centres of which the spaces and parts of the fissures are seen. This is an ex- tended degree of hepatic venous congestion ; it is “ active congestion ” of the liver, and very commonly attends diseases of the heart, and acute diseases of the lungs and pleura. There is another form of partial venous congestion which com- mences in the portal vein: this is, therefore, portal venous congestion. It is of very rare occurrence, and Mr. Kiernan has observed it in children only. “ In this form the congested substance never assumes the deep red colour which characterises hepatic venous congestion ; the inter-lobular fissures and spaces, and the marginal portions of the lobules are of a deeper colour than usual ; the congested substance is continuous and cortical, the non-congested substance being medul- lary, and occupying the centres of the lobules (fig. 43. 11.). The second stage of hepatic-venous congestion, in which the congested substance appears, but is not cortical, may be easily confounded with portal venous congestion. These are instances of partial congestion, but there is sometimes general congestion of the organ. “ In general congestion the whole liver is of a red colour, but the central portions of the lobules are usually of a deeper hue than the marginal portions.” If the stomach be raised and drawn over to the right side, the student will perceive the spleen attached to its greater end. The Spleen is a flattened organ of a dark bluish red colour, convex upon one surface, and concave on the other. Its edges usually present several notches. Its external or convex surface lies in relation with the diaphragm and ribs, the internal or concave, is applied against the great or splenic end of the stomach, and is marked by a fissure (hilus lienis), through which the vessels enter and leave the substance of the organ. It is connected to the stomach by a duplicature of peritoneum, which is there- fore called gastro-splenic omentum. It is between the two layers of the gastro-splenic omentum, that the vasa brevia reach the great end of the stomach. Structure.— In addition to its peritoneal covering, the spleen is enclosed in a capsule of elastic tissue, which sends processes into the interior of the organ, and divides it into a number of cells; the fibrous membrane is also