MUSCLES OE THE ORBIT. 209 to the bones immediately around the optic foramen. The muscle is inserted into the tarsal cartilage of the upper eyelid. The Superior rectus arises from the common tendon, and is inserted into the upper surface of the globe of the eye. The Internal rectus arises from the common tendon, and is inserted into the outer surface of the globe of the eye. The External rectus arises by two heads, one from the common tendon, the other from the edge of the greater ala of the sphenoid bone. It is inserted into the outer surface of the globe of the eye. The Inferior rectus arises from the common tendon, and is inserted into the under surface of the globe of the eye. The Obliquus superior arises from the common tendon, and runs forwards to the pulley beneath the internal angular process of the frontal bone. Its tendon is thence reflected to its insertion upon the posterior and external surface of the globe of the eye, beneath the superior rectus. IThe Inferior oblique arises from the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, and passes outwards beneath the inferior rectus and eyeball, to be inserted into its posterior and external surface beneath the external i rectus. Actions.— The levator palpebrae raises the upper eye- lid. The four recti, acting singly, pull the eyeball in the four directions of upwards, downwards, inwards, and out- wards. Acting by pairs, they carry the eyeball in the diagonal of these directions, viz. upwards and inwards, upwards and outwards, downwards and inwards, or down- wards and outwards. Acting all together, they retract ! the globe within the orbit, as occurs in cholera. The superior oblique muscle, acting alone, rotates the globe inwards and forwards, and carries the pupil outwards and downwards to the lower and outer angle of the orbit. The inferior oblique, acting alone, rotates the globe out- wards and upwards, and carries the pupil outwards and upwards to the upper and outer angle of the eye. Both muscles acting together, draw the eyeball forwards, and