388 MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. above the pyriformis muscle, and is distributed with the branches of that artery. The Internal pudic nerve passes out of the pelvis through the great sacro-ischiatic foramen, below the pyriformis muscle, and follows the course and distribution of the internal pudic artery. The Lesser ischiatic nerve passes out of the pelvis through the great sacro-ischiatic foramen, in company with the great ischiatic nerve, and is distributed to the muscles of the ischiatic region, and to the integument on the posterior aspect of the thigh : see page 37. The Great ischiatic nerve is formed by the union of all the nerves which form the sacral plexus. It is a thick nervous band of considerable breadth. It leaves the pelvis through the great sacro-ischiatic foramen, below the lower border of the pyriformis muscle, and is distri- buted to the lower extremity : see page 38. The two last sacral, or rather, the Coccygeal nerves, are distributed to the lower extremity of the rectum and perineum, and communicate with branches of the hypo- gastric plexus. The Sympathetic nerve within the pelvis is composed of four or five small ganglia on each side, which terminate on the coccyx in a single ganglion, called ganglion impar. The sacral ganglia give filaments to each of the sacral nerves and visceral filaments, which are distributed to the viscera of the pelvis, and communicate with the filaments of the hypogastric plexus. External Organs of Generation in the Male. Penis. — The Penis is composed of three lengthened bodies, closely united to each other, the two corpora ca- vernosa, and the corpus spongiosum. The Corpora cavernosa {fig. 45. 22.) are firmly attached at their commencement to the ramus of the ischium and pubis, where they form the crura penis; they then pass forwards, and meeting in the middle line, become inti- mately united, and constitute the chief bulk of the body of the penis. They consist of cellular structure enclosed in a very dense fibrous investment, and are separated by