RIGHT AURICLE.— OPENINGS. 121 The Inferior cava, 3., returns the blood from the lower half of the body, and opens into the lower and posterior wall, close to the partition between the auricles (septum auricularum). The direction of these two vessels is such, that a stream forced through the superior cava would be directed towards the auriculo-ventricular opening. In like manner, a stream rushing upwai’ds by the inferior cava would force its current against the septum auricularum ; this is the proper direction of the two currents during foetal life. The Coronary vein {fig. 12. 4.) returns the venous blood from the substance of the heart; it opens into the auricle between the inferior cava and the auriculo-ven- tricular opening, under cover of the coronary valve. The Foramina Thebesii* are minute pore-like openings, by which the venous blood exhales directly from the muscular structure of the heart into the auricle, without entering the venous current. These openings are also by the chordae tendincae to the carneae columnae, 12. 13. The pulmonary artery, guarded at its commencement by three semilunar valves. 14. The right pulmonary artery, passing beneath the arch and behind the ascending aorta. 15. The left pulmonary artery, crossing in front of the descending aorta. * The remains of the ductus arteriosus, acting as a ligament between the pulmonary artery and arch of the aorta. The arrows mark the course of the venous blood through the right side of the heart. Entering the auricle by the superior and inferior cavse, it passes through the auriculo-ventri- cular opening into the ventricle, and thence through the pulmonary artery to the lungs. 16. The left auricle. 17. The openings of the four pulmonary veins. 18. The auriculo-ventricular opening. 19. The left ventricle. 20. The mitral valve, attached by its chordae tendineae to two large columnae carncae, which project from the walls of the ventricle. 21. The commencement and course of the ascend- ing aorta behind the pulmonary artery, marked by an arrow. The entrance of the vessel is guarded by three semilunar valves. 22. The arch of the aorta. The comparative thickness of the two ventricles is shown in the diagram. The course of the pure blood through the left side of the heart is marked by arrows. The blood is brought from the lungs by the four pulmonary veins into the left auricle, and passes through the auriculo-ventricular opening into the left ventricle, from whence it is conveyed by the aorta to every part of the body. * Adam Christian Thebesius. His discovery of the openings now known by his name is contained in his “ Dissertatio Medica do Circulo Sanguinis in Corde,” 1708. G