257 BASE OF THE BRAIN. The Longitudinal fissure is the space separating the two hemispheres: it is continued downwards to the base of the brain, and divides the two anterior lobes. In this fissure the anterior cerebral arteries ascend towards the corpus callosum ; and, if the two lobes be slightly drawn away from each other, the anterior extremity of the corpus callosum will be seen descending to the base. On either side of the longitudinal fissure, upon the under surface of each anterior lobe, is the Olfactory nerve, with its bulb. The Fissure of Sylvius bounds the anterior lobe pos- teriorly, and separates it from the middle lobe : it lodges the middle cerebral artery. The Substantia perforata is a triangular plane of white substance, situated at the inner extremity of the fissure of Sylvius. It is named perforata from being pierced by a number of openings for small arteries, which enter the brain in this situation to reach the corpus striatum. Passing backwards on each side beneath the edge of the middle lobe, is the commencement of the great trans- verse fissure, which extends beneath the hemispheres to the same point on the opposite side. The Optic commissure is situated on the middle line : it is the point of communication between the two optic nerves. The Tuber cinereum is an eminence of grey substance immediately behind the optic commissure, and connected with its posterior border. It forms part of the floor of the third ventricle. The Infundibulum is a tubular process of grey sub- stance, opening from the centre of the tuber cinereum, and attached below to the pituitary gland {fig. 25. 16.), which is lodged in the sella turcica. This gland is re- tained within the sella turcica by the dura mater and arachnoid, and is with great difficulty removed with the brain. It is, therefore, better left in its place, where it is intended to study afterwards the base of the skull ; for any attempt at removal would injure the cavernous sinuses. It consists of two lohes, but presents nothing glandular, either in structure or function. I lie Corpora albicant.ia {fig. 25. G.) are two rounded nlute bodies, placed side by side, of about the size of