OESOPHAGUS. PNEUMOGASTRIC NERVES. 135 pendicularly between the aorta and vena azygos, passes behind the arch of the aorta, and along the course of the left subclavian artery into the neck, where it makes a sudden turn downwards, and terminates at the junction of the left jugular with the left subclavian vein. In the thorax it often divides into two or three branches, which afterwards reunite. It is provided with valves like the rest of the lymphatic system. The thoracic duct is the common lymphatic trunk of the whole of the lower half of the body, the left side of the thorax, the left upper extremity, and the left side of the head and neck. The lymphatic vessels of the right side of the thorax, right upper extremity, and right side of the head and neck, unite to form the ductus lymphaticus dexter, which opens into the junction of the right jugular and subclavian veins. The (Esophagus (Jig. 11. 13.) commences on a level with the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, opposite to the fifth cervical vertebra. It descends upon the verte- bral column, a little to the left of the trachea, and passing down behind the arch of the aorta, becomes placed im- mediately in front of the descending aorta upon which it lies. Near to the lower part of the chest it advances forwards, and passes through a muscular opening in the diaphragm to terminate in the stomach. It is accom- panied by the pneumogastric nerves. Pxeumogastric nerves. — The Right pneumogastric nerve, after its entrance into the chest, between the right subclavian artery and vein, descends obliquely behind the superior cava and behind the root of the lungs, to the posterior surface of the oesophagus, along which it runs to the stomach. The Left pneumogastric nerve runs parallel with the left subclavian artery at its entrance into the chest, crosses the arch of the aorta, then passes behind the root of the two common iliac veins. 12. The right external iliac. 13. The internal iliac vein. 14. The vena sacra media. 15. 15. The lumbar veins. . 16. The right spermatic vein. 17. The left renal vein, into which is seen opening from below the left spermatic vein, 18. The right renal vein. 19. The hepatic veins.