§0 FEMORAL ARTERY. COURSE. funnel-shaped above, but narrows considerably in its descent, and becomes more closely applied about the vessels. At the upper third of the thigh, two nerves become placed upon the sheath : these are the long and short saphenous branches of the anterior crural nerve. The larger of the two pierces the sheath and accom- panies the femoral vessels within its interior. The smaller lies upon the sheath till it arrives opposite the vastus internus muscle, to which it is distributed. Operation. — These nerves are found to observe the above relation to the femoral artery, in the operation for tying that vessel. The integument is first divided, then the superjicial fascia, next the deep Jascia; then the edge of the sartorius muscle is drawn aside, and the sheath of the vessels exposed, upon which lie these two saphenous nerves, and the operator is careful in opening the sheath to avoid injuring them. The Femoral artery runs down the inner side of the thigh, from Poupart’s ligament, at a point exactly midway between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and symphisis pubis, to the hole in the adductor magnus, at the junction of the middle with the inferior third of the thigh. The femoral vein is at first to the inner side, and upon the same plane with the artery, but lower down; the vein becomes placed behind the artery, and retains that relation throughout the rest of its course. Relations. — The upper third of the femoral artery is superficial, being covered only by the integument and superficial and deep fasciae. The lower two thirds are covered by the sartorius muscle. To its outer side the artery rests first against the psoas, next against the rectus, then against the vastus internus. Behind it has, first, the body of the pubis, then the tendon of the psoas and iliacus ; it is next separated from the pectineus by the femoral vein, profunda vein and artery, and then lies on the adductor longus to its termination: near the lower border of the adductor longus, it is placed in an aponeu- rotic canal, formed by an arch of tendinous fibres, thrown from the border of the adductor longus, and the border of the opening in the adductor magnus, to the side of the vastus internus.