97 RADIAL ARTERY. RELATIONS. its course downwards, upon the insertions of the supinator brevis, and pronator radii teres, radial origin of the flexor sublimis, flexor longus pollicis, and pronator quadratus, and is covered in by the integument and fasciae. Plan of the relations of the radial artery in the fore-arm. In Front. Deep fascia. Outer Side. Supinator longus. Radial nerve (middle third of its course). Supinator brevis. Pronator radii teres. Flexor sublimis digitorum. Flexor longus pollicis. Pronator quadratus. Wrist-joint. Operations. — The radial artery may be tied in any part of its course, either above, where it is placed between the supinator longus and pronator teres, or below, between the tendons of the supinator longus and flexor carpi radialis. In either case the border of the supinator longus is the guide for the incision, and the same parts are to be divided in both, viz., the integument, superficial, and deep fascia. The operation, at the upper part of the arm, will require the longer incision on account of the greater depth of the vessel, though the difference in that particular is very trifling. In the middle third of its course the radial artery is accompanied by the radial nerve. The radial artery may likewise be tied where it is winding around the root of the thumb, to enter the palm of the hand. In this ope- ration the incision should be made along the middle of the space be- tween the tendons of the extensor primi and secundi internodii. In dividing the superficial fascia, one or two branches of veins may be wounded, and a branch of the dorsal division of the radial nerve which crosses this space. The artery is placed deeply upon the trapezium bone, and is accompanied by its two venae comites. Pronator radu teres. Flexor carpi radialis. The Branches of the Radial artery may be arranged into four groups :— Elbow - Fore-arm Wrist - - Recurrent radial. - Muscular branches. ' Superficialis volae. Carpalis anterior. - Carpalis posterior. Metacarpalis. _Dorsales pollicis. F