396 FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. The Urethra is extremely short, not more than an inch and a half in length. It is enclosed in the upper wall of the vagina, and terminates at its anterior extremity. The Female organs of generation are divided into ex- ternal and internal. The External organs are the mons Veneris, labia majora, labia minora or nymphos, clitoris, meatus urina- rius, and the entrance to the vagina. The Internal organs are the vagina, uterus, ovaries, Fallopian tubes, and ligaments. External Organs of Generation. The Mons Veneris is an eminence of integument, situ- ated upon the pubis. Its cellular tissue is loaded with adipose substance, and the surface covered with hairs. The Labia majora are two large longitudinal folds of integument, consisting of fat and loose cellular tissue. They enclose an elliptic opening called the vulva, and are united posteriorly by a thin commissure called the fourchette, which is always ruptured in parturition. Im- mediately within this commissure is a small cavity, the fossa navicularis. The breadth of the perineum is measured from the fourchette to the margin of the anus, and is usually not more than an inch across. The external surface of the labia is covered with hairs ; the inner surface is smooth, and lined by mucous mem- brane, which contains a number of sebaceous follicles, and is covered by a thin epithelium. The use of the labia majora is to favour the extension of the vulva during parturition ; for, in the passage of the head of the child, the labia are completely unfolded and effaced. The Labia minora, or nymphos, are two smaller folds situated within the labia majora. Superiorly they are divided into two processes, which surround the glans clitoridis and form its prepuce, preputium clitoridis. Infe- riorly, they diminish gradually in size, and are lost on the sides of the opening of the vagina. The nymphae consist of mucous membrane, covered in by a thin epithelium. They are provided with a number of sebaceous follicles, and contain, in their interior, a thin layer of erectile tissue.