424 SYMPATHETIC. CERVICAL GANGLIA. Vidian. And the otic ganglion is brought in relation with it by means of the tympanic nerve and Vidian. It communicates with the third nerve in the cavernous sinus, and through the ciliary ganglion; with the Cas- serian ganglion; with the ophthalmic division of the fifth in the cavernous sinus, and by means of the ciliary gan- glion ; with the superior maxillary, through the spheno- palatine ganglion ; and with the inferior maxillary, through the chorda tympani and Vidian. It sends two branches directly to the sixth nerve, 8., which unite * with it as it crosses the cavernous sinus : it communicates with the facial and auditory nerves, through the medium of the petrosal branch of the Vidian ; and with the glosso- pharyngeal and pneumogastric nerves, through the nervics petrosus superficialis minor, a branch from the otic gan- glion to the tympanic nerve. Cervical Ganglia. The Superior cervical ganglion {fig- 49. 21. fig. 50. 1.) is long and fusiform, of a greyish colour, and smooth oh the surface, and of considerable thickness; extending from within an inch of the carotid foramen in the petrous bone, to opposite the lower border of the third cervical vertebra. It is in relation, in front, with the sheath of the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein ; and, behind, with the rectus anticus major muscle. Its Branches, like those of all the sympathetic ganglia in the trunk, are divisible into superior, inferior, external, and internal; to which may be added, as proper to this ganglion, anterior. The Superior, 2., is a single branch which ascends by the side of the internal carotid, and divides into two branches; one lying to the outer side, the other to the inner side of that vessel. The two branches enter the carotid canal, and communicate by means of several fila- ments sent from one to the other, to constitute the carotid plexus. * Panizza, in his “ Experimental Researches on the Nerves,” denies this communication, and states very vaguely that “ they are merely lost and entwined around it. ” — Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, January 1836.