405 SUPERFICIAL PERINEAL FASCIA. neum assuming the title of deep, we must for the present submit to this apparent departure from the unity of plan which we have heretofore had ample evidence of in the pursuit of our dissections. The Superficialperinealfascia is very tough and resisting in the genital region, thin and ill-defined in the anal region. The latter portion scarcely deserves our attention ; the former requires careful examination. It is firmty attached to the ramus of the pubis and ischium on each side, nearly as far back as the tuberosity, where it becomes continuous with the deep perineal fascia. In front it is continuous with the covering of the scrotum, called dartos. It follows, from this arrangement, that if urine had es- caped from the urethra at the point where that tube had just traversed the deep perineal fascia, it would be unable to follow the laws of gravity, and pass backwards towards the anus, on account of the communication between the superficial perineal fascia and the deep perineal fascia. I It could not pass outwards into the thighs, on account i of the connection of the superficial perineal fascia to the 5 of the pubis and ischium. It would, therefore, burrow among the muscles at the root of the penis, and be constrained to follow the direction of the penis for- wards into the scrotum {fig. 45.17.), and thence upwards into the cellular tissue of the lower part of the abdomen. An abscess in this situation is excessively painful, on account of the tension and resistance of the superficial perineal fascia; and, unless speedily opened by the sur- geon, might give rise to consequences dangerous to life. The best manner of dissecting the superficial perineal fascia is to make an incision from the middle point of the upper incision to the tuberosity of the ischium on each side. We thus form a A shaped flap, . !• which, on being turned downwards (fig. 48. 4.), displays very dis- al tinctly the continuity of this fascia with the deep perineal fascia 6.). f The two side flaps (5- 5.) are then to be dissected outwards, and the inn connection between this fascia and the ramus of pubis and ischium lemonstrated. When the student has thus satisfied himself of the connections of he superficial perineal fascia, he must proceed to remove the fat and tellular tissue, which conceal from view the muscles aud superficial ressels of the perineum. In the middle line is the projection of the rorpus spongiosum, and on each side the commencement of the cor- ||wora cavernosa (crura pcnisj. Upon these bodies arc situated 1 ir two