FOETAL CIRCULATION. 437 u 3 lower extremities, and is carried through the right auricle, guided by the Eustachian valve, and through the foramen ovale into the left auricle. From the left auricle, it passes into the left ventricle, and from the left ventricle into the aorta, whence it is distributed by means of the carotid and subclavian arteries principally to the head and upper extremities. From the head and upper extremities, the impure blood is returned by the superior vena cava to the right auricle ; from the right auricle, it is propelled into the right ventricle ; and from the right ventricle into the pulmonary artery. In the adult, the blood would now be circulated through the lungs and decarbonised ; but in the foetus the lungs are solid, and almost impervious. Only a small quantity of the blood passes therefore into the lungs; the greater part rushes through the ductus ar- teriosus, into the commencement of the descending aorta. Passing along the aorta, a small quantity of the impure blood is distributed by the external iliac arteries to the lower extremities ; the greater portion enters the internal i iliacs, and is carried onwards by the side of the bladder, .and up the anterior wall of the abdomen, and through t the umbilicus, under the name of umbilical arteries, to the placenta, to which they return the blood that has been circulated through the system of the foetus. From a careful consideration of this circulation, we shall perceive—1st. That the pure blood from the placenta is distributed in considerable quantity to the liver, before entering the general circulation. Hence arises the abun- Jant nutrition of that organ, and its enormous size in •omparison with the other viscera. 2dly. That the right auricle is the scene of meeting of i double current; the one coming from the inferior cava, he other from the superior, and that they must cross •ach other in their respective course. How this crossing s effected the theorist will wonder; not so the practical natomist; for a cursory examination of the fcetal heart 'ill show, 1. That the direction of entrance of the two essels is so opposite, that they may discharge their urrents through the same cavity without admixture. . That the inferior cava opens almost directly into the i ft auricle ; and 3. I hat by the aid of the Eustachian