GLANDS OF THE LARYNX. 318 is continued upwards, nearly as high as the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and sometimes beyond it. When dissected from the interior of the larynx, it is found covered by the aryteno-epiglottideus muscle and a fibrous membrane, which is attached to the superior chorda vocalis below ; to the epiglottis in front; and to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage above. If examined from the exterior of the larynx, it will be seen to be covered by the thyro-epiglottideus muscle. On the surface of its mucous membrane are the openings of sixty or seventy small follicular glands, which are situated in the sub- mucous tissue, and give its external surface a rough and ill-dissected appearance. This mucous secretion is in- tended for the lubrication of the chordae vocales, and is directed upon them by two small valvular folds of mucous membrane, which are situated at the entrance of the sacculus. The Entrance of the larynx is formed by two folds of mucous membrane, stretched between the apices of the arytenoid cartilages and the sides of the epiglottis. The arytenoid glands and superior aryteno-epiglottidean mus- cles are situated within these folds. The Glands of the larynx are, 1. The epiglottic—most improperly named — for it consists merely of a mass of fat situated between the convexity of the epiglottis and the thyro-hyoid membrane ; 2. The arytenoid glands, some small granules found in the folds of mucous membrane near the apex of the arytenoid cartilage. Vessels and Nerves. — The arteries of the larynx are derived from the superior and inferior thyroid. The nerves liar disposition of the mucous membrane might explain some of the symptoms by which the case was accompanied. Cruveilhier made the same discovery in equal ignorance of Morgagni’s description, for we read in a note at page 677. vol. ii. of his Anatomic Descriptive, — “ J’ai vu pour la premiere fois cette arriere cavitd chez un individu aflfectd de phthisie laryngee, oh elle t?tait tres-developpee. Je fis des recherches sur le larynx d’autres individus, et je trouvai que cette dis- position etait constante. Je ne savais pas alors que Morgagni avait indiqud et fait repr^senter la meme disposition.” Cruveilhier com- pares its form very aptly to a “ Phrygian casqueand Morgagni’s figure, Advers. 1. Epist. Anat. 8. plate 2. fig. 4., has the same ap- pearance. Ilut neither of these anatomists notice the follicular glands described by Mr. Ililton.