470 LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. The External lateral ligaments descend from the pro- jection on the external condyle of the femur to the head of the fibula. The posterior is shorter than the anterior, but the division into two is often indistinct. They are covered by the tendon of the biceps, and have passing beneath them the tendon of origin of the popliteus mus- cle, and the inferior external articular artery. The true ligaments within the joint are the crucial, transverse,.and coronary. The Anterior, or external crucial ligament, arises from the depression upon the head of the tibia in front of the spinous process, and passes upwards and backwards to be inserted into the inner surface of the outer condyle of the femur. The Posterior, or internal crucial ligament, arises from the depression upon the head of the tibia, behind the spinous process, and passes upwards and forwards to be inserted into the inner condyle of the femur. The Transverse ligament is a small slip of fibres which extends transversely between the two semilunar car- tilages, and connects them anteriorly. The Coronary ligaments are the short fibres by which the convex border of the semilunar cartilages is connected to the head of the tibia, and to the ligaments surrounding the joint. The Semilunar jibro-cartilages are two falciform plates of fibro- cartilage, situated around the margin of the head of the tibia, and serving to deepen the surface of articu- lation for the condyles of the femur. They are thick along their convex border, and thin and sharp along the concave edge. The Internal semilunar jihro-cartilage forms an oval cup for the reception of the internal condyle : it is connected by its convex border to the head of the tibia, and to the internal and posterior ligaments, b}r means of its coronary ligament; and by its two extremities is firmly implanted into the depressions immediately in front and behind the spinous process. The external semilunar jihro-car- tilage bounds a circular fossa for the external condyle: it is connected by its convex border with the head of the tibia, and external and posterior ligaments, by means ot