72 VEINS. LYMPHATICS. — NEKVES. exceptions are individualities that associate objects of im- portance and interest with their existence. The Veins of the upper extremity are the superficial and the deep : the former are placed between the two layers of the superficial fascia, the latter are associated with the arteries. All the arteries of the limbs and trunk which are below the second magnitude are accompanied by two veins, named “ Venae comites;' thus the radial, ulnar, interosseous, and brachial arteries, with their branches, have each their corresponding venae comites. The axillary and subclavian have each a single vein. The Lymphatic vessels are rarely seen in an ordinary dissection, excepting under very favourable circumstances, as in anasarca, when they are sometimes observed, as white opaque threads, traversing the transparent jelly like cellular substance, and entering the lymphatic glands at all points of their circumference. They follow in their course the direction of the veins to which they bear a remarkable analogy. The lymphatic glands are accumu- lated in the loose cellular tissue of the axilla, and two or three may be met with in the course of the basilic vein. The Nerves of the upper extremity are derived from the brachial plexus which is formed by the four last cer- vical and the first dorsal nerves. A plexus is the means by which nervous branches destined to a single apparatus are associated in their structure previously to distribution, so that the sensations of each filament may harmonise with all the rest, and produce the unity of impulse which is necessary to perfect action. For it is evident that if an impression were received by the terminal filament of any one nerve, and excited a reflex movement, without a simultaneous impression upon the other nerves of the same limb and consequent muscular movement, that an opposition of action would result; which is inconsistent with natural and healthy function. We are, therefore, interested in the complex interlacements and union of a number of nerves in the formation of a plexus, when we reflect upon the important benefits which such a disposi- tion confers. The branches which are given off by the brachial or axillary plexus are, 1st., those distributed to the shoulder and neighbouring part of the chest; and 2d., those destined