MUSCLES OF THE NECK. 156 according to their actions: the depressor labii inferioris draws the lower lip downwards, whilst it is carried up- wards by the levator labii inferioris, or levator menti. The depressor anguli oris expresses moroseness and grief, by drawing the angle of the mouth downwards. The muscles of the auricular region possess but little action in man. They are the analogues of important mus- cles in brutes. Their use is sufficiently explained in their names. The maxillary muscles are the active agents in masti- cation, and form an apparatus beautifully fitted for that office. The buccinator muscle circumscribes the cavity of the mouth, and with the aid of the tongue keeps the food under the immediate pressure of the teeth. By means of its connection with the superior constrictor, it shortens the cavity of the pharynx, from before backwards, and becomes an important auxiliary in deglutition. The tem- poral, the masseter, and the internal pterygoid are the bruising muscles, drawing the lower jaw against the upper with very great force. The two latter, by the obliquity of their direction, assist the external pterygoid in grinding the food by carrying the lower jaw forward upon the upper; the jaw being brought back again by the deep portion of the masseter and posterior fibres of the temporal. The whole of these muscles, acting in succession, produce a rotatory movement of the teeth upon each other, which, with the direct action of the lower jaw against the upper, effects the proper mastication of the food. Muscles of the Neck. The Neck, as we have before stated, is the medium of communication and connection, between the head and the trunk of the body. Connection is established by means of the integument and sterno-mastoid muscle, the muscles of the prever- tebral region, and posterior cervical muscles. Communication is effected by means of apparatuses, connected with respiration and deglutition. Associated with respiration is the larynx, and with deglutition the os hyoides, the tongue, the soft palate, and the pharynx. These may be considered as the elements of the neck,