173 OPERATIONS ON THE NECK. i 3 tie the artery below the jaw, the upper border of the posterior belly of the digastric muscle would be the guide to the vessel. The ligature might then be passed around it just before it entered the submaxillary gland, whilst resting against the stylo-maxillary ligament. The structures to be cut through are the Integument, Superficial fascia, Platysma, Cervical branches of the cervico-facial nerve, Deep fascia. The Lingual artery is tied in the upper angle of the superior carotid triangle. The external incision should be made parallel with the lower border of the posterior belly of the digastricus muscle. It should cut through the integument, superficial fascia, platysma, and deep fascia. The hyo-glossus will then form the floor of the wound, upon which rests the lingual nerve: this must be carefully avoided by making the incision through the muscle below the nerve. The artery will then be exposed in the second part of its course. The structures to be cut through are the Integument, . j Superficial fascia, Platysma, Superficialis colli nerve, Deep fascia, Hyo-glossus muscle. But the superior carotid triangle is the seat of a much greater ope- ration, the ligature of the upper part of the common carotid artery, the high operation, as it is called. Here, the artery is comparatively superficial, and the operation proportionately simple. The incision is to be made along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, com- mencing an inch below the angle of the jaw, and carrying it half way down the neck. It should divide the integument, superficial fascia, platysma, and deep fascia. We then expose the sheath of the vessels, upon which lies the descendens noni nerve. Leave this nerve un- disturbed, and open the sheath to its inner side, immediately above the omo-hyoid muscle; then insinuate the needle around the artery from without inwards, guarding against including the pneumogastri’c nerve by keeping the point of the instrument close to the cylinder of the artery. The parts to be cut through are the Integument, Superficial fascia, Platysma, Superficialis colli nerve, Deep fascia, Sheath of the vessels.