48 ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. OPERATIONS. extensor proprius pollicis ; and just before it reaches the ankle it is crossed by the tendon of the extensor proprius pollicis, and becomes placed between that tendon and the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum. Plan of the relations of the anterior tibial artery. Inner Side. Front. Outer Side. Tibialis anticus. Tendon of the extensor pro- prius pollicis. Behind. Interosseous membrane. Tibia. Ankle joint. Extensor longus digitorum. Extensor proprius pollicis. Tendons of the extensor longus digitorum. Operations. — The anterior tibial artery may be tied in any part of its course after it has escaped through the opening in the inter- osseous membrane, by making an incision in the direction of a line drawn from the midpoint, between the anterior border of the tibia and fibula in the upper third of the leg, to the middle of the ankle. The operation in the upper third of the course of the artery is one of considerable difficulty, — 1st. On account of the absence of any positive guide to the interspace between the tibialis anticus and ex- tensor longus digitorum muscles; 2d. On account of the great depth of the artery ; and 3dly. On account of the unyielding nature of the deep fascia, which constricts the external orifice of the wound. In consequence of these impediments, the artery is never operated upon in this situation, excepting for the purpose of securing both ends of the vessel in accidental wounds. The incision in the integument and deep fascia must be four or five inches in length. The artery has a vein to either side, vence comites ; the nerve lies to its outer side. In the middle third of the leg, the incision is to be made in the same direction, and between three and four inches in length. The structures to be divided, are the integument, superficial fascia, and deep fascia. Then the interspace between the tibialis anticus and extensor proprius pollicis is to be found, and the two muscles separated. Lying at the bottom of the interval between them, and supported by the interosseous membrane, will be seen the artery, accompanied by its venae comites, and having the anterior tibial nerve resting upon it. The nerve is to be drawn carefully aside, the sheath of the vessels opened, and the ligature conveyed, by means of the aneurism needle, around the artery. In the lower third of the leg, an incision in the same direction, but two inches in length, will suffice. The structures to be cut through are the same as in the former operation. The artery will be found resting on the bone, between the tendons of the tibialis anticus and extensor longus digitorum, or nearer to the ankle, between the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum and extensor proprius pollicist