MINUTE ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. 357 dilates into a small space of a triangular or quadrangular form : this is the inter-lobular space (Jig. 43. 13.) In the centre of each lobule is situated a small vein (Jig. 4S. 2. Jig. 44. 3.), the intra-lobular, which runs in the longitudinal direction of the lobule, and passes through the centre of its base to terminate in the sub-lobular vein, and thus forms a principal bond of connection between the lobule and the vein. The intra-lobular vein invariably corresponds with the form of the lobule: it is composed of a central vessel, and of from four to six or eight smaller vessels, which terminate in the central vessel. The central vessel represents the centre of the lobule, and the smaller ves- sels the number of processes which are developed upon its surface. There is a slight variety of form between the lobules of the centre and those of the surface ; the former are more angular, from being compressed by the surrounding substance; the latter have the outline more rounded, and appear larger from being placed obliquely on the hepatic veins which pass nearly parallel with the upper and lower surfaces of the liver to terminate at its posterior border. “ The form of the lobules bears no relation to the arrangement of the ducts, the form of each lobule being always correspondent to the branches of the intra-lobular hepatic vein occupying the centre of the lobule.” “ Each lobule is composed of a plexus of biliary ducts, of a venous plexus formed by branches of the portal vein, of a branch of an he- patic vein, and of minute arteries; nerves and absorbents, it is to be presumed, also enter into their formation, but cannot be traced into them.” “ Examined with the microscope, a lobule is apparently com- posed of numerous minute bodies of a yellowish colour, and of various forms, connected with each other by vessels. These minute bodies are the acini of Malpighi.” “ If an uninjected lobule be examined and contrasted with an injected lobule, it will be found that the acini of Malpighi in the former are identical with the injected lobular biliary plexus in the latter, and the blood-vessels in both will be easily distinguished from the ducts.” Glisson’s capsule is the cellular tissue which envelops the hepatic vessels in the right border of the lesser omentum, and accompanies them through the transverse fissure to their ultimate ramifications. It forms a distinct capsule for each of the lobules, and is continuous with the fibrous layer which invests the entire liver, its proper capsule. But“ Glisson’s capsule,” observes Mr. Kiernan, “is not mere cellular tissue; it is to the liver what the pia mater is to the brain; it is a cellulo-vascular membrane in which the vessels divide and subdivide to an extreme degree of minuteness; which lines the portal canals, forming sheaths for the larger vessels contained in them, and a web in which the smaller vessels ramify; which enters the inter-lobular fissures, and with the vessels forms the capsules of the lobules, and which finally enters the lobules, and with the blood-vessels expands itself over the secreting biliary ducts. Hence arises a natural division of the capsule into three portions, a vaginal, an inter-lobular, and a lobular portion. ” The Vaginal portion encloses the portal vein, hepatic duct,’and artery in the canals through which they ramify. In the larger canals