267 RESPIRATORY NERVES. 7th pair, Facial (portio dura).—The facial nerve {Jig. 19. 23.) arises from the upper part of the respiratory tract, where it joins the pons Varolii. It enters the internal auditory foramen along with the portio mollis, and then passes along the aqueductus Fallopii to its exit from the skull at the stylo-mastoid foramen. It is distributed to the muscles of the face and head, and is the true motor nerve of the face. 8th pair. — This pair consists of three nerves, the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogas trie, and spinal accessory. The Glosso-pharyngeal nerve arises {Jig. 19. 5.) by several filaments from the respiratory tract, between the corpus olivare and restiforme, and quits the skull at the foramen lacerum posterius, to be distributed principally to the mucous membrane and secreting apparatus of the tongue and pharynx. The Pneumogastric nerve {vagus) arises {Jig. 19. 8.) by a greater number of filaments immediately below the glosso-pharyngeal, and passes through the foramen lace- rum posterius, with the preceding nerve. It is distributed to the respiratory and digestive apparatus and heart: its course is, therefore, long and wandering : hence its syno- nyme, vagus. The Spinal accessory nerve arises {Jig. 19. 20.) by several filaments from the respiratory tract, opposite the fourth cervical vertebra. It ascends to the foramen magnum, between the anterior and posterior roots of spinal nerves, and behind the ligamentum denticulatum, and joins the other two nerves at the foramen lacerum posterius, through which it accompanies them. It is distributed to the sterno mastoid, trapezius, and levator anguli scapulae muscles. Spinal nerve, 5th pair, Trifacial (trigeminus).—This nerve is analogous to the spinal nerves in its origin by two roots from the anterior and posterior columns of the spinal cord, and in the existence of a ganglion on the posterior root. Hence it ranges with the spinal nerves, and is considered as the spinal cranial nerve. It arises by two roots, an anterior root {Jig. 21. 11.), of small size, from the corpus pyramidale, and a posterior root, 10., larger than the anterior, from the corpus resti- forme. The two roots pass forwards through the pons N 2