CONTENTS OE THE ORBIT. 207 We shall pursue the plan of the examination of the orbit, that we have heretofore followed in the examination of the neck. Studying the muscles and the more pro- minent relations of the various structures on the one side, and the vessels and nerves on the opposite. In the middle line is the levator palpebrae muscle, and resting upon it the frontal nerve, with its accompanying artery, the supra-orbital. To the inner side is the obliquus superior, and running along its border the fourth nerve posteriorly, and the infra-trochlear branch in front. To the outer side is the upper border of the external rectus supporting the lachrymal artery and nerve, and in front the lachrymal gland. If now the levator palpebrae muscle, and with it the frontal nerve and artery be divided through the middle and turned aside, the superior rectus will be seen oc- cupying the middle place, and if the obliquus superior be also divided and its ends thrown aside, the upper margin of the internal rectus will occupy the inner side supporting the infra-trochlear nerve. Next divide the superior rectus through the middle, and draw its ends asunder, in doing which some branches of the third nerve may be seen entering its under surface, and a third plane will be brought into view. This requires to be freed of a large quantity of fat, before the structures situated in it can be fully seen. The student must work cautiously and unweariedly, until he has removed every particle of this fat, which however is not difficult to do from its being contained in areolae of loose cellular tissue. In the middle line he will now perceive the optic nerve, crossed from without inwards by the ophthalmic artery and nasal nerve, and having to its outer side the ascending branch of the third nerve, the ciliary ganglion with its branches, the ciliary arteries, and a little more externally, in contact with the external rectus muscle, the sixth nerve. Next divide the optic nerve through its middle, and draw it forwards, when a layer will be observed, which is formed by the inferior rectus muscle supporting the long branch of the third nerve in the middle line; and in front, the inferior oblique muscle connected with the globe of the eye.