i i ij a PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS. 279 ophthalmic and spheno-palatine, and pterygo-palatine from the internal maxillary. The Nerves are, the olfactory, the spheno-palatine branches of Meckel’s ganglion, and the nasal branch of the ophthalmic. The Olfactory is the special nerve of smell. Its bulb gives off a considerable number of branches, which pass through the cribriform foramina, and spread upon the osseous surface of the mucous membrane, some passing to the septum, and others to the superior and middle spongy bones. The Spheno-'palatine nerves are branches of Meckel’s ganglion, which enter the fossae through the spheno- palatine foramen, and are distributed to the mucous mem- brane ; one branch, larger than the rest, crosses to the septum, and descends by its side to the anterior palatine canal, where it communicates with the naso-palatine ganglion. These nerves associate the organ of smell with the other organs of sense and of nutrition, by means of the sympathetic nerve. The Nasal nerve enters the nasal fossae through the most anterior of the openings in the cribriform lamella, and divides into two branches, one of which is distributed to the mucous membrane of the septum and around the nostril; the other passes between the cartilages of the nose, and is distributed to the integument on its ex- terior. Practical Observations. — The mucous membrane is rendered an organ of smell by the contact of the odorant particles. If the secretion be deficient, the contact is not appreciable, and there is loss of smell. Or, if the membrane be swollen and thickened, there is likewise loss of smell; both of these conditions are con- sequences of common cold. When haemorrhage occurs from the mucous membrane, it may proceed to so great an extent as to endanger life. In such a case the nasal fossae must be stopped from behind, by drawing a piece of dry sponge against the posterior nares. This is effected by introducing an in- strument, carrying a curved spring with an eye at the end of it, along the inferior meatus to the pharynx. The spring is then pressed onwards, and is directed by its