337 PERITONEUM. REFLECTIONS. and one from the parietes behind, posterior. These two layers of the same membrane meet at about the middle of the diaphragm, and descend to the upper surface of the liver, forming the lateral ligaments of the liver. They then surround the liver, and, meeting at its under surface, pass to the stomach, forming the lesser omentum. They then surround the stomach, and meeting at its lower border, descend for some distance in front of the intestines, and return to the transverse colon, forming the great omentum ; they then surround the transverse colon, and pass directly backwards to the vertebral column, forming the transverse meso-colon. Here the two layers separate; the posterior ascends in front of the pancreas and aorta, and returns to the posterior part of the diaphragm, where it forms the posterior layer with which we commenced. The anterior descends, invests all the small intestines, and returning to the vertebral column, forms the mesentery. It then de- scends into the pelvis in front of the rectum, which it holds in its place by means of a fold called meso-rectum, forms a pouch between it and the bladder, ascends upon the posterior surface of the bladder, forming its false ligaments, and returns upon the anterior parietes of the abdomen to the diaphragm, whence we first traced it. In the female, after descending into the pelvis in front of the rectum, it is reflected upon the posterior surface of the vagina and uterus. It then descends on the anterior surface of the uterus, and forms at either side the broad ligaments. From the uterus it ascends upon the posterior surface of the bladder and anterior parietes of the abdo- men, and is continued as in the male to the diaphragm. In this way the continuity of the peritoneum, as a whole, is distinctly shown, and it matters not where the examination commence, or where it terminate, still the same continuity of surface will be discernible throughout, j; If we trace it from side to side of the abdomen, we may commence at the umbilicus; we then follow it outwards lining the inner side of the parietes to the ascending colon; it surrounds that intestine; it then surrounds the small intestine, and returning on itself forms the me- sentery. It then invests the descending colon, and reaches .lie parietes on the opposite side of the abdomen, whence Q