350 CCELIAC AXIS. GASTRIC ARTERY. the left mesocolon, to the left iliac fossa, where it divides into three branches : — Colica sinistra, Sigmoideae, Superior haemorrhoidal. The Colica sinistra is distributed to the descending colon, and ascends to inosculate with the colica media. This is the largest arterial inosculation in the body. The Sigmoideae are several branches which are distri- buted to the sigmoid flexure of the descending colon. They form arches, and inosculate above with the colica sinistra, and below with the superior haemorrhoidal artery. The Superior haemorrhoidal artery descends along the meso-rectum, to the upper part of the rectum, to which it is distributed, anastomosing with the middle haemor- rhoidal branches of the internal pudic. The Inferior mesenteric vein is formed by the con- vergence of branches returning the blood along the course of the artery, and terminates behind the pancreas in the portal vein. The Lymphatics pass inwards to the numerous glands situated along the course of the aorta. The Inferior mesenteric plexus accompanies, with its filaments, all the branches of the artery. It is derived from the solar and aortic plexuses. Dissection, — The large intestines should now be removed alto- gether, and a ligature placed around the upper part of the rectum. The student should then pin up the liver and inflate the duodenum and stomach with a small quantity of air. The blowpipe may be inserted for this purpose into the upper part of the jejunum, which was left on the removal of the small intestines. Next remove the middle portion of the lesser omentum, and feel for the coeliac axis. The branches of the coeliac axis should then be dissected and followed to their distribution. It would be well to avoid disturbing the coeliac axis itself at present, as it is surrounded by the solar plexus, which must be afterwards examined. The Coeliac axis is the first single trunk given off by the abdominal aorta; it is very short, and divides into three large arteries, the gastric, hepatic, and splenic. The Gastric artery (coronaria ventriculi) ascends between the two layers of lesser omentum to the cardiac orifice of the stomach, then runs along the lesser curva-