MUCOUS COAT. STRUCTURE. 344 not simple, like the serous coat, but is composed of three layers like the skin, which it very closely resembles. These are the epithelium, the proper mucous, and the fibrous layer. The Epithelium is the cuticle of the mucous membrane. Throughout the pharynx and oesophagus it resembles the cuticle, both in appearance and character. It is con- tinuous with the cuticle of the skin at the margin of the lips, and terminates by an irregular border at the cardiac orifice of the stomach. The rest of the mucous membrane has been recently shown by Dr. Henle * to be equally provided with an epithelium, composed of minute pyriform bodies placed perpendicularly to the surface. These bodies have a central nucleus, and are secreted by the mucous layer; they are delineated and described in Dr. Baly’s able translation of Muller’s Physiology. The Proper mucous or papillary layer, is analogous to the papillary layer of the skin, and, like it, is the secreting structure by which the epithelium is produced. Its surface is covered with minute papillae (villi'), which are so numerous in the small intestine, as to present the ap- pearance of the pile of velvet; hence the mucous surface has been named “ villous The Villi are largest and most numerous in the stomach and duodenum, covering every part of the surface of the rugae and valvulae conniventes. They are not so abundant in the jejunum, but are still in sufficient number to give to that intestine its characteristic thickness and vascu- larity. In the ileum they are fewer and less developed, and in the large intestine have a particular arrangement. The mucous layer is very loosely connected with the fibrous. It is continuous at the lips and at the anus with the papillary layer of the cutis. The Fibrous layer (submucous, nervous) is the mem- brane of support to the mucous membrane, as is the corium to the papillary layer of the skin. It gives to the mucous membrane its strength and resistance. It is but loosely connected with the mucous layer, but is firmly adherent to the muscular coat. It is called, in the older works on anatomy, the “ nervous coat." * Opus citatum.