394< SURGICAL OBSERVATIONS. are secured by a fibrous membrane, which is covered by the tunica vaginalis. The Vas deferens (jig. 46. 13.,fig. 4-5. 10.) commences, therefore, in the globus minor epididymis at the lower part of the testicle, and ascends along the posterior part of the spermatic cord to the external abdominal ring. It then passes along the spermatic canal, and through the internal abdominal ring, to the side of the fundus of the bladder. It next descends along the posterior wall of the bladder, crossing the direction of the ureter, and ter- minates at the base of the prostate gland by uniting with the duct of the vesicula seminalis to form the ejaculatory duct. The Spermatic cord consists of the vessels and nerves passing to and from the testicle, enclosed in several tunics or fasciae. The left cord is a little longer than the right: hence the left testicle is the lower of the two. The cord is placed behind the testicle, so that the con- vexity of the testis looks forwards and a little outwards. Vessels and nerves. — The arteries of the cord are the spermatic, from the aorta ; cremasteric, from the epi- gastric ; and deferential, from the vesical artery. The Veins are numerous, and have valves at very short dis- tances. They are sometimes called vasa pampiniformia, from the peculiar tendril-like arrangement of the smaller vessels. The Lymphatics are beautifully shown in the injections made by Sir A. Cooper: they terminate in the lumbar glands. The Nerves are derived from the spermatic plexus, and from the genito-crural and ilio-scrotal branches of the lumbar plexus. The Coverings of the cord are the fascia spermaiica, cremaster, and fascia propria. Surgery of the Testicle and Spermatic Cord. When the tunica vaginalis remains unclosed, the intes- tine being forced into it, lies in contact with the testicle: this is Congenital hernia (fig. 41. page 334.). Hydrocele, in infants and young children, often commu- nicates with the cavity of the abdomen from the same deficiency of closure.