COWPER’s GLANDS. LACUNA. — PROSTATE GLAND. 38S escapes from the deep perineal fascia, it is received into the upper part of the bulb of the urethra, and becomes the spongy portion. The Spongy portion of the urethra is named from being inclosed by the corpus spongiosum penis. The com- mencement of the corpus spongiosum forms the bulb, hence the included urethra is called the bulbous portion. Next to the prostatic portion, the bulbous is the most dilated part of the canal. In the body of the corpus spongiosum, the canal diminishes in size, but, within the glans penis, it forms a third dilatation called fossa navi- cularis, and, at the meatus contracts so much as to be smaller than at any other part of the tube. The bulbous portion has, opening into it, the two small excretory ducts of Cowper’s glands. These small bodies (fig. ^5. 16. fig. 48. ll.), about the size of peas, are situ- ated immediately beneath the membranous portion of the urethra, between the two layers of the deep perineal fascia, and are covered by the inferior fasciculus of the compressor urethrae muscle. They are composed of mucous follicles and their ducts, about three quarters of an inch in length, pass forwards to open into the bulbous urethra. (In the mucous membrane are a number of mucous follicles or lacunae. These are most numerous upon the upper wall of the canal, and have their openings directed forwards so as to catch the point of a catheter in its passage into the bladder, and give rise to a temporary impediment. In a case of this kind the instrument should be withdrawn a little, and then pushed gently on, with a slight depression of the point. One of these lacunae, larger than the rest, is called lacuna magna ; it is situated at about an inch and a half i from the meatus. It is said to be the seat of the secretion of the drop of matter which is squeezed from the urethra i in old gonorrhoea. Prostate gland. — The Prostate gland (fig. 45. 12.) 1 surrounds the upper surface of the neck of the bladder, | and is situated within the pelvis. It has the shape and & • size of a Spanish chesnut ; the base being directed ) i backwards towards the bladder, the apex forwards to the i deep perineal fascia ; the flat side upwards, and the