THIRD VENTRICLE. 252 are two spaces, called foramen commune anterius and foramen commune posterius. The Anterior commissure (Jig. 25. 12.) is a rounded white cord; communicating with the corpora striata. The Middle, or soft commissure (Jig. 25. 13. Jig. 24-. 11.), consists of grey matter, and is very easily broken down ; it connects the adjacent sides of the thalami optici. The Posterior commissure (Jig. 25. 14.) is a rounded white cord, connecting the two thalami optici posteriorly. Between the anterior and middle commissure, is the space called foramen commune anterius (Jig. 25. 15.), which, from leading downwards into the infundibulum, is also designated iter ad infundibulum. The crura of the fornix descend through this space, surrounded by grey matter, to the corpora albicantia. Between the middle and posterior commissure, is the foramen commune posterius (Jig. 25. 17.) from which a canal leads backwards to the fourth ventricle, the iter a tertio ad quart um ventriculum. Behind the third ventricle is placed the quadrifid gan- glion, called optic lobes in the inferior animals, and cor- pora quadrigemina (Jig. 25. 20. fig. 27. l.) in man. The two anterior of these bodies are the larger, and are named nates ; the two posterior testes. Resting upon them, and surrounded by a sheath of pia mater, obtained from the velum interpositum, with which it is liable to be torn off, unless very great care be used, is the pineal gland. The Pineal gland consists of soft grey substance, and is of a conical form ; hence one of its synonyms, conarium. It contains in its interior several brownish granules, which are composed of phosphate and carbonate of lime. It is connected to the thalami optici by two small rounded cords, called peduncles. It is very improperly called a gland. Behind the corpora quadrigemina is the cerebellum, and beneath the cerebellum the fourth ventricle. The student must therefore divide the cerebellum down to the fourth ventricle, and turn its lobes aside to examine that cavity. The Fourth ventricle (fig. 25. 19. fig. 27. 4.) is the ven- tricle of the medulla oblongata, upon the posterior surface of which it is placed. It is an oblong quadrilateral cavity,