187 BRANCHES. artery just as it makes its remarkable bend# inwards. It passes down upon the posterior surface of the superior maxillary bone, and sends its branches through several small foramina to supply the posterior teeth of the upper jaw. The Infra-orbital, 12., would appear, from its size, to be the proper continuation of the artery. It is, however, more convenient to consider it simply as a branch. It runs along the infra-orbital canal with the superior maxil- lary nerve, sending branches downwards through canals in the bone, to supply the mucous lining of the antrum and teeth of the upper jaw, and escapes from the infra- orbital foramen, inosculating with the facial and transverse facial arteries. The Pterygo-palatine, 15., is a small branch which passes through the pterygo-palatine canal, and supplies the upper part of the pharynx. The Spheno-palatine, 14., or nasal, enters the spheno- palatine foramen with the nasal branches of Meckel’s ganglion, and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the nares. The Posterior palatine branch, 13., descends along the posterior palatine canal, in company with the posterior palatine branches of Meckel’s ganglion. It is distributed to the palate. The Vidian branch, 16., passes backwards along the pterygoid canal, and is distributed to the sheath of the Vidian nerve. The external carotid artery should now be divided near its origin, and drawn upwards, or removed altogether. The ramus of the jaw should also be sawn across, and dissected away from the insertion of the internal pterygoid muscle and pterygo-maxillary ligament, in order to bring into view the side of the pharynx. The rest of the parotid gland may then be removed from its situation, and its deep relations attentively observed. We shall thus be enabled to trace the course of the remaining branch of the external carotid artery, and see the relations of the internal carotid. The Ascending pharyngeal artery (fg. 15. 16.) arises from the external carotid, near to its bifurcation, and ascends by the side of the pharynx to the base of the skull, where it divides into branches which enter the fora- mina in that region to be distributed to the dura mater. It supplies the pharynx.