PULMONARY ARTERY. VEINS. 131 then divides into two branches, the right and left pul- monary arteries. The Right pulmonary artery, 14., passes beneath the arch and behind the ascending aorta, to the root of the right lung, where it divides into branches which are dis- tributed to its three lobes. The Left pulmonary artery, 15., rather larger than the right, passes in front of the descending aorta to the root of the left lung. The Superior vena cava (fig. 12. 2. fig. 13. l.) is a short trunk situated to the right, and rather in front of the ascending aorta. It is formed by the junction of the two venae innominatae. The Vence innominatce {fig. 13. 2, 3.) are formed by the junction of the internal jugular, 4., and subclavian veins, 5., at each side. The right vena innominata is short, and descends almost vertically to the superior cava. The left is long, and crosses obliquely the branches arising from the arch of the aorta. The Inferior cava (fig. 12. 3.) passes through a quadri- lateral opening in the tendinous centre of the diaphragm, and immediately enters the right auricle, so that its extent within the chest is not more than half or three quarters of an inch. Pulmonary veins. — The Right pulmonary veins, anterior to the other vessels in the root of the lung, pass behind the right auricle to open into the right side of the left auricle. The Left pulmonary veins, also anterior to the other vessels in the root of the lung, pass in front of the de- scending aorta to open into the left side of the corre- sponding auricle. Trachea and Bronchi Behind the arch of the aorta, the trachea divides into the two bronchi. The right bronchus passes off at right angles, and enters the upper part of the right lung. It crosses behind the superior cava, and has the vena azygos curving around it to terminate in that vein. The left bronchus is oblique in its direction, having to stoop beneath the arch of the aorta to reach the root of the lung. It enters the lung, therefore, at the middle, and not at the upper part, as g 6