GLUTEAL REGION. MUSCLES. 34> The Obturator internus arises from the inner surface of the anterior wall of the pelvis, being attached to the margin of bone around the obturator foramen, and to the obturator membrane. It passes out of the pelvis through the lesser sacro-ischiatic foramen, and is inserted by a flattened tendon into the digital fossa of the trochanter major. The lesser sacro-ischiatic notch, over which this muscle plays as through a pulley, is faced with cartilage, and provided with a synovial bursa to facilitate its move- ments. The tendon of the obturator is supported on each side by the two gemelli muscles (hence their names), which are inserted into the sides of the tendon, and ap- pear to be auxiliaries or superadded portions of the ob- turator internus. The Gemellus inferior arises from the posterior point of the tuberosity of the ischium, and is inserted into the lower border of the tendon of the obturator internus, and into the digital fossa of the trochanter major. Placed deeply between the gemellus inferior and the quadratus femoris, may be seen the tendon of the ob- turator externus, becoming more superficial as it passes outwards to its insertion into the digital fossa of the trochanter major: it arises from the external surface of the obturator ligament, and from the margin of bone immediately surrounding it. (Page 18.) The Quadratus femoris, 5. (square-shaped) arises from the external border of the tuberosity of the ischium, and is inserted into a rough line on the posterior border of the trochanter major, which is thence named linea quadrati. Actions. — The glutei muscles are abductors of the thigh, when they take their fixed point from the pelvis. Taking their fixed point from the thigh, they steady the pelvis on the head of the femur : this action is peculiarly obvious in standing on one leg : they assist also in carrying the leg forward, in progression. The gluteus minimus be- ing attached to the anterior border of the trochanter major, rotates the limb slightly inwards. The gluteus medius and maximus, from their insertion into the posterior aspect of the bone, rotate the limb outwards: the latter is, moreover, a tensor of the fascia of the thigh. The other muscles rotate the limb outwards, everting the knee and foot; hence they are named external rotators.