76 SUBSCAPULAR AND ACROMIAL REGIONS. side of the chest, to be inserted into the whole length of the base of the scapula. It indigitates by means of its five lower serrations with the obliquus externus abdo- minis. Subscapular Region. Subscapularis. The Subscapularis muscle arises from the whole of the under surface of the scapula excepting the superior angle, and terminates by a broad and thick tendon, which is inserted into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. The tendon of this muscle forms a part of the capsule of the joint, and is lined by its synovial membrane. Acromial Region. Deltoid. The convexity of the shoulder is formed by a large triangular muscle, the Deltoid (A, delta; ejSo?, resem- blance), which arises from the outer third of the clavicle, from the acromion process, and from the whole length of the spine of the scapula. The fibres from this broad origin converge to the middle of the outer side of the humerus, where they are inserted into a rough triangular elevation. This muscle is remarkable for its coarse tex- ture, and the combination of tendinous and muscular fibres. The deltoid muscle may now be cut away from its origin, and turned down for the purpose of bringing into view the muscles and tendons placed immediately around the shoulder joint. In so doing, a large bursa will be seen between the under surface of the muscle and the head of the humerus. Bend of the Elbow. Before, however, proceeding any farther with the dissection of the shoulder, it would be advisable to study the superficial anatomy of the bend of the elbow. With this view, an incision should be made through the integument, along the middle of the biceps muscle, to about three inches below the elbow, and bounded at its extremity by a transverse incision. The integument is next to be dissected care- fully back, and a second incision carried in the same direction to divide the external layer of the superficial fascia. This operation must be conducted with care, for a number of superficial nerves and veins occupy this region of the arm; they may be thus arranged : —