MUSCLES. — ORBITAL GROUP. 150 val, and arches over the head to be inserted into the orbicularis palpebrarum and the nasal tuberosity of the frontal bone. A narrow slip from each muscle is con- tinued downwards upon the nasal bones to form the pyramidalis nasi muscle. The muscle is fleshy in front over the frontal bone, and behind over the occipital, the two portions being con- nected by a broad tendinous aponeurosis. The muscles of opposite sides cover the whole of the vertex of the skull, from the middle line to the temporal ridge. After examining the occipito-frontalis muscle, the student should remove the brain, as being the portion of the head most susceptible of decomposition. The anatomy of the encephalon and spinal cord form the subject of Chapter VI. The dissection of the face is next to be commenced, for which purpose the longitudinal incision of the vertex is to be continued onwards to the tip of the nose, and thence downwards to the margin of the upper lip ; then carry an incision along the margin of the lip to the angle of the mouth, and transversely across the face to the meatus auditorius. Lastly, divide the integument in front of the external ear upwards to the transverse incision which was made for exposing the occipito-frontalis. Dissect the integument and super- ficial fascia carefully from the whole of the region included by these incisions, and the three next groups of muscles will be brought into view. 2. Orbited Group. Orbicularis palpebrarum, Corrugator supercilii, Tensor tarsi. The Orbicularis palpebrarum is a sphincter muscle surrounding the orbit and eyelids. It arises from the nasal process of the superior .maxillary bone, and from a short tendon (tendo oculi) extending between that process and the inner angle of the eyelids. Its fibres encircle the orbit and eyelids, forming a broad and thin muscular plane, which is inserted into the under surface of the tendon and process of bone from which it arose. Upon the eyelids its fibres are thin and very pale. The Corrugator supercilii is seen by raising the upper segment of the orbicularis palpebrarum from the frontal bone : it arises from the inner extremity of the super- ciliary ridge, and is inserted into the under surface of the orbicularis palpebrarum.