RELATIONS. BRANCHES. 185 is one of the two terminal branches of the external carotid. Commencing in the substance of the parotid gland, oppo- site the meatus auditorius externus, it first passes hori- zontally behind the neck of the lower jaw, next obliquely upwards between the two pterygoid muscles ; it then bends suddenly into the pterygo-maxillary fossa. Its course is thus resolved into three portions — 1. That situated behind the neck of the jaw, the maxillary por- tion, 4.; 2. That between the pterygoid muscles, mus- cular portion, 5.; and 3. Its bend into the pterygo-maxil- lary fossa., pterygo-maxillary portion, 6. Relations. — The maxillary portion is situated be- tween the ramus of the jaw and internal lateral ligament, lying parallel to the auricular nerve ; the pterygoid portion between the two pterygoid muscles, crossing the gustatory and dental nerves. It then makes a remarkable bend (_fig. 16.*j which projects between the two heads of the external pterygoid muscle, and passes directly inwards to the pterygo-maxillary fossa, where it divides into its terminal branches. Internal maxillary artery.—Branches. facial artery. 3. 4. The two terminal branches of the external caro- tid. 3. The temporal artery; and 4. The internal maxillary, the first or maxillary portion of its course : the limit of this portion is marked by an arrow. 5. The second, or muscular portion, of the artery; the limits are bounded by the arrows. 6. The third, ox pterygo-maxillary portion. The branches of the maxillary portion are, 7. A tympanic branch. 8. the arteria meningea media. 9. The arteria meningea parva. 10. The inferior dental artery. The branches of the second portion are wholly muscular, the ascending ones being distributed to the temporal, and the descending to the four other muscles of the inter-maxillary^ region, viz. the two pterygoids, the masseter and buccinator. -The branches of the pterygo-maxillary portion of the artery are, 11. The superior dental artery. 12. The infra-orbital artery. 13. I he posterior palatine. 14. The spheno-palatine, or nasal. 15. The pterygo-palatine. 16. The Vidian. * The remark- able bend which the third portion of the artery makes as it turns inwards to enter the pterygo-maxillary fossa.