141 FOURTH LAYER. portion of the back. The remaining four are situated in the cervical region. The Sacro-lumbalis and Longissimus dor si arise by a common origin from the posterior third of the crest of the ilium, from the posterior surface of the sacrum, and from the lumbar vertebrae : opposite the last rib a line of separation begins to be marked between the two muscles. The Sacro-lumbalis is inserted by separate tendons into the angles of the six lower ribs. On turning the muscle a little outwards, a number of tendinous slips will be seen taking their origin from the ribs, and terminating in a muscular fasciculus, by which the sacro-lumbalis is pro- longed to the upper part of the thorax. This is the micsculus accessorius ad sacro-lumbalem: it arises from the angles of the lower ribs, and is inserted by separate tendons into the angles of the six upper ribs. The Longissimus dorsi is inserted into all the ribs, between their tubercles and angles. The Spinalis dorsi arises from the spinous processes of the two upper lumbar and two lower dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the spinous processes of all the upper dorsal vertebrae, the two muscles form an ellipse, which appears to enclose the spinous processes of all the dorsal vertebrae. Cervical group. — The Cervicalis ascendens appears to be the continuation of the sacro-lumbalis upwards into the neck. It arises from the angles of the four upper ribs, and is inserted into the transverse processes of the four lower cervical vertebrae. The Transversalis colli would appear to be the con- tinuation upwards into the neck of the longissimus dorsi, it arises from the transverse processes of the four upper dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the transverse processes of the four middle cervical vertebrae. The Trachelo-mastoid is likewise a continuation up- wards from the longissimus dorsi. It is a very slender and delicate muscle, arising from the transverse processes of the four upper dorsal, and four lower cervical vertebrae, and inserted into the mastoid process. The Complexus is a large muscle, and with the splenius forms the great bulk of the back of the neck. It crosses the direction of the splenius, arising from the transverse