355 GALL-BLADDER. The Hepatic artery and Portal vein enter the liver at the transverse fissure ; from which point the branches of the portal vein spread out to every part of the liver, so that their direction is from below upwards. The Hepatic veins commence at the circumference of the liver, and proceed from before backwards, to open into the vena cava upon its posterior border. Hence the branches of the two veins cross each other in their course. The portal vein is accompanied to its ultimate divisions by a loose cellular tissue, the capsule of Glisson, which surrounds it in the right border of the lesser omentum. This capsule, by establishing only a loose connection between the vessels and the substance of the liver, permits the veins to contract upon themselves, when emptied of their blood. The branches of the hepatic veins, on the contrary, are closely united by the circum- ference of their cylinders to the substance of the liver, hence they are unable to contract. The student will, therefore, easily distinguish between the openings of the two veins in a section of the organ: the branches of the portal vein will be found collapsed, and those of the hepatic veins widely open. Again, in company with the portal vein, he will observe the hepatic artery and ducts, while the hepatic veins are solitary. Vessels and nerves. — The liver is supplied'with the hepatic artery for nutrition ; the portal vein for secre- tion ; and the hepatic veins to convey to the inferior cava the residual blood. The smaller hepatic ducts unite to form a single duct for each of the two principal lobes, and these again form, by their union, the common hepatic duct. The Lymphatics are variously distributed : those of the convex surface proceed upwards through the anterior mediastinum to the glands about the heart, and those from the concave surface pass backwards to the recepta- culum chyli. The Nerves of the liver are the filaments of the hepatic plexus, derived from the solar plexus. The Gall-bladder is of a pyriform shape, and is lodged in a fissure on the under surface of the right lobe.