VAGINA. — UTERUS. 398 commencement it is constricted, but near the uterus be- comes considerably dilated. Its length is very variable; but it is always longer upon the posterior than upon the anterior wall. The former is usually about five or six inches in length, and the latter four or five. It is inserted into the cervix of the uterus, which projects into the upper extremity of the canal. In Structure the vagina is composed of a mucous lining, a layer of erectile tissue, and an external tunic of a fibrous structure, resembling the dartos of the scrotum. The upper half of the posterior wall of the vagina is covered, on its pelvic surface, by the peritoneum ; and, in front, the peritoneum is reflected from its upper part to the posterior surface of the bladder. The Mucous membrane presents a number of transverse papillce or rugce upon its upper and lower surfaces, which extend outwards on each side from a middle raphe. The transverse papillae and raphe are more apparent upon the upper than upon the lower surface, and the two raphe are called the columns of the vagina. The mucous membrane is covered by a thick epithelium, which is continued from the labia, and terminates by a fringed border at the inner margin of the os uteri. The External, or dartoid layer of the vagina, serves to connect it to the surrounding viscera. Thus, it is very closely adherent to the under surface of the bladder, and drags that organ down with it in prolapsus uteri. To the rectum it is more loosely connected, which is therefore less frequently affected in prolapsus. Uterus. — The Uterus (fig. 47- 4.) is a flattened organ of a pyriform shape, having the base directed up- wards. Its direction corresponds with the axis of the inlet of the pelvis: it therefore forms a considerable angle with the direction of the vagina. It is about three inches in length, two in breadth across its broadest part, and one in thickness. It is divided into fundus, body, cervix, and os uteri. The Fundus (fig. 47. 5.) and Body, 4. are enclosed in a duplicature of peritoneum, which is connected with the two sides of the pelvis, and forms a transverse septum between the bladder and rectum. The folds on either