2C 8 SPINAL CORD. Varolii to tlie anterior border of the crus cerebelli, where the nerve makes its appearance on the brain. In this situation it consists of from seventy to eighty filaments, held together by arachnoid membrane. The nerve then passes through an oval opening in the border of the ten- torium, near to the extremity of the petrous bone, and spreads out into a large semilunar ganglion, the Casserian, which divides into three large branches, ophthalmic, supe- rior maxillary, and inferior maxillary. If the ganglion be carefully turned up, the anterior root will be seen as a flattened cord lying against the ganglion, and crossing it to join the inferior maxillary nerve. The Casserian ganglion rests upon the anterior root of the fifth nerve, the cranial branch of the Vidian, the nervus petrosus superficialis minor, or the communicating branch from Jacobson’s nerve, to the otic ganglion, the sixth nerve, and the internal carotid artery. Spinal Cord. The dissection of the spinal cord requires that the spinal column should be opened throughout its entire length by sawing through the laminae of the vertebrae, close to the roots of the transverse processes, and i-aising the arches with a chisel, after the muscles of the back have been removed. The Spinal column contains the spinal cord, or medulla spinalis; the roots of the spinal nerves; and the membranes of the cord, viz. dura mater, arachnoid, pia mater, and memhrana dentata. The Dura mater {Jig. 28. l.) (theca vertebralis) is con- tinuous with the dura mater of the skull : it is closely attached around the border of the occipital foramen, par- ticularly in front, to the posterior common ligament. In the vertebral canal it is connected only by loose cellular tissue, containing an oily fluid, somewhat analogous to the marrow of long bones. On either side, and below, it forms a sheath, 2. 2., for each of the spinal nerves, to which it is closely adherent. Upon its inner surface it is smooth, being lined by the arachnoid; and on either side may be seen the double opening for the two roots of each of the spinal nerves.