413 OPERATION FOR LITHOTOMY. T 3 different structures, and carrying an incision into the uri- nary bladder, for the purpose of removing a calculus. Another operation, the puncture of the bladder through the perineum, is also performed by incising in the same direction, and through the same parts. In his second dissection, the student should practise the former opera- tion, and afterwards examine the structures through which his incision has passed, and the liabilities that might ensue from proceeding ignorantly. In lithotomy, the patient is fixed by binding the palms of the hands against the soles of the feet, and holding apart the knees. The operator has thus the whole ex- panse of the perineum before his eyes; he observes the elevated line (raphe) which runs along the middle of the perineum to the anus, and he feels for the tuberosity of the ischium ; he then commences an incision at the raphe, about an inch and a half, more or less, in front of the anus. The exact point for the commencement of the incision must always be left to the judgment of the operator, who will proportion the length of his incision to the size and age of his patient, his fatness, or emaciation ; an inch and ;a half being about the average distance in an adult of ordinary condition. The incision is carried obliquely downwards and out- wards to a point, one-third nearer to the tuberosity of the ischium than to the anus, and should terminate oppo- site the middle of the anus. The proportional distance between the tuberosity of the ischium and anus, is the Scylla and Charybdis of the operation ; for approaching nearer to the former would endanger the internal pudic irtery; and to the latter, the rectum ; particularly if the Surgeon have neglected the precaution of emptying that )owel previously to the operation. ' I The First step, then, of the operation, is to make a t teady incision from the raphe, an inch and a half in front t'f the anus, obliquely downwards and outwards to a point ne-third nearer to the tuberosity of the ischium than to j he anus, and opposite the middle of that opening. This icision should divide the integument, the common super- cial fascia, the superficial perineal fascia, the lower fibres J f the accelerator mscle and artery. urinae, and the transversus perinei