CEREBELLUM. 255 proportion than the -white. Its surface is formed by parallel lamellce, separated by fissures ; and at intervals deeper fissures exist, which divide it into larger segments, termed lobules. The cerebellum is divided into two lateral hemispheres, or lobes, two minor lobes called superior and inferior vermiform processes, and some small lobules. The Lateral lobes are separated from each other pos- teriorly by a depression which lodges the falx cerebelli, and above and below by the projection of the vermiform processes. The Superior vermiform process is all that exists of the cerebellum in birds, and forms the largest proportion of the organ in many mammalia. It is situated along the middle line, and serves to connect the lateral lobes supe- riorly. The Inferior vermiform process forms a projection inferiorly, and is the means of connection between the lateral lobes below. The principal lobules are the pneumogastric, the ton- sils, uvula, and linguetta laminosa. The Pneumogastric lobule (flocculus) is situated on the anterior border of the cerebellum, near to the origin of the eighth pair of nerves, and is hence called pneumo- gastric. It is not unlike a convoluted shell in its form. The Tonsils and Uvula resemble those organs in a swollen state very strikingly: they project from the under surface of the cerebellum into the fourth ventricle. The Linguetta laminosa is a thin tonguelet of grey substance, marked by transverse furrows, extending for- wards upon the valve of Vieussens from the grey sub- stance of the cerebellum. When cut into vertically, the cerebellum presents the appearance termed arbor vitae. If the incision be made through the outer third of the organ, a grey body, sur- rounded by a yellow ziz-zag line of horny structure, will be seen in the centre of the white substance : this is the corpus rhomboideum, or ganglion of the cerebellum. J lie cerebellum is associated with the spinal cord and cerebrum by three pair of peduncles, the Corpora restiformia, Processus b cerebello ad testes, Crura cerebelli.