47 ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. is remarkable {fig. 9.); each tendon spreads into a broad aponeurosis over the_first phalanx ; this aponeurosis divides into three slips, the 'middle one is inserted into the base of the second phalanx, and the two lateral slips are con- tinued onwards to be inserted into the base of the third. The Peroneus tertins (flexor tarsi fibularis) arises from the lower fourth of the fibula, and is inserted into the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. Although it ap- pears to be merely a part of the extensor longus digi- torum, it may be looked upon as analogous to the flexor carpi ulnaris of the fore-arm. Sometimes it is altogether wanting. The Extensor proprius pollicis lies between the tibialis anticus and extensor longus digitorum. It arises from the lower two thirds of the fibula and interosseous membrane. Its tendon passes through a distinct sheath in the annular ligament, and is inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the great toe. Actions. — The tibialis anticus and peroneus tertius are direct flexors of the tarsus upon the leg, acting in con- junction with the tibialis posticus, and peroneus longus and brevis: they direct the foot either inwards or out- wards, and preserve its flatness in progression. The ex- tensor longus digitorum, and extensor proprius pollicis, are direct extensors of the phalanges : but continuing their action, they assist the tibialis anticus and peroneus tertius, in flexing the entire foot upon the leg. Taking their origin from below, they increase the stability of the ankle. Anterior tibialartery. — We have seen in a previous sec- tion, that the popliteal artery divides into the anterior and posterior tibial. The anterior tibial passes forwards between the two heads of the tibialis posticus muscle, then through the opening in the upper part of the inter- osseous membrane, to the anterior tibial region. From this point it runs down the anterior aspect of the leg to the ankle joint. Relations. — It rests upon the interosseous mem- brane, the lower part of the tibia, and the anterior ligament of the joint. In the upper third of its course it is situated between the tibialis anticus and extensor communis di- gitorum, lower down between the tibialis anticus and