423 CAROTID PLEXUS. ment to the tensor tympani muscle ; and, 2. one to the tensor palati muscle. The Branches of communication are— 1. two or three small branches to the motor root of the inferior maxillary nerve; 2. two branches to the auricular nerve; 3. a filament to the facial nerve; 4. a long filament, the nervus petrosus superficialis minor, to communicate with the tympanic nerve (Jacobson’s) in the tympanum ; and, 5. one or two small branches which join the sympathetic filaments of the arteria meningea media artery. Carotid plexus. — The ascending branch of the superior cervical ganglion enters the carotid canal with the internal carotid artery, and divides into two branches, which form several loops of communication with each other around the artery. This constitutes the carotid plexus {fig- 49. 3.) They also form, frequently, a small gangliform swelling upon the under part of the artery, which is called the carotid ganglion. It is not, however, constant; and, as it performs no especial function, we have not included it amongst the cranial ganglia of the sympathetic. A continuation of the carotid plexus on- wards with the artery by the side of the sella turcica, is often called the cavernous plexus: this is an unnecessary and useless complication, and we therefore abstain from giving it a place in our description. The carotid plexus is the centre of communication be- tween all the cranial ganglia; and being derived from the superior cervical ganglion, between the cranial ganglia and those of the trunk, it also communicates with the greater part of the cerebral nerves, and distributes fila- ments with each of the branches of the internal carotid, which accompany them in all their ramifications. Thus, the Ganglion of Iiibes is formed by the union of the filaments which accompany the anterior cerebral arteries, and whiclwneet on the anterior communicating artery. The ciliary ganglion communicates with the plexus by means of the long branch, which is sent back to join it in the cavernous sinus. The sphcno-palatine, and with it the naso-palatine ganglion, joins the plexus by means of the carotid branch of the Vidian. The sub- maxillary ganglion is also connected with it through the