176 VESSELS OF THE NECK. beneath the finger. The chief difficulty in this operation is the position of the subclavian vein, directly in front of the artery ; and occasionally the external jugular vein opening into it, in the middle of the space, will prove a great obstacle. The operator has to guard against wounding any of these veins, or taking up the brachial plexus of nerves. The structures to be cut through are the Integument, Superficial fascia, Platysina, Clavicular branches of the cervical plexus, Clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid muscle, Deep fascia, Cellular tissue. When the student has practised these operations, and carefully noted all the structures situated in the triangles of the neck, he should next proceed to the dissection and study of the vessels and nerves. Vessels of the Neck. Divide the sterno-mastoid muscle through its middle, and turn aside the ends; the upper extremity will be seen to be pierced by the spinal accessory nerve. Then dissect off the posterior layer of the deep fascia, and the sheath of the carotid vessels will be exposed throughout its entire extent. Tying upon the sheath, and forming a loop at about its middle, is a long slender nerve, the descendens noni. Open the sheath, and it will be found to contain the carotid artery, jugular vein, and pneumogastric nerve. Behind it is the recurrent laryngeal, and sympathetic nerve. Dissect the cellular tissue and lymphatic glands, which are numerous in the course of the jugular vein, from around the vessels, for the purpose of examining them and their relations more satisfactorily. The Carotid artery (i<apa, the head) of the right side (Jiff- 17. 8.), is shorter and larger than that on the left: the former being a branch of the innominata, com- mences opposite the right sterno-clavicular articulation, the latter from the arch of the aorta. From either point the carotid ascends the side of the neck to a level with the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, where it divides (y?y. 15. 7.) into the external carotid and internal carotid. Relations. — The Common carotid of the right side rests, first, upon the longus colli muscle, then upon the rectus anticus major, the sympathetic nerve being inter- posed. The inferior thyroid artery and recurrent larjm- geal nerve pass behind it at its lower part. To its inner side is the trachea, recurrent laryngeal nerve, and larynx ; to its outer side the jugular vein and pneumogastric