436 VASCULAR SYSTEM. FCETUS. one for the greater tuberosity ; one for the rounded head of the condyle, that articulates with the radius ; one for the trochlear portion of the inner condyle ; and one for each condyle. The Ulna has four points of ossification : viz. the shaft, upper extremity, lower extremity, and olecranon. The Radius has three centres of development; one for the shaft, and one for each extremity. The Femur is developed from five centres: viz. one for the shaft; one for the head ; one for the lower extremity ; and one for each trochanter. The Tibia has three centres : one for the shaft, and one for each extremity. The Fibula has also three : one for the shaft, and one for each extremity. Muscular system. — The muscles of the foetus at birth are large and fully formed. They are of a lighter colour than those of the adult, and of a softer texture. Vascular system. — The circulating system presents several peculiarities: Istly, in the heart; there is a com- munication between the two auricles by means of the foramen ovale. 2dly, In the arterial system ; there is a commuuicatiori between the pulmonary artery and de- scending aorta, by means of a large trunk — the ductus arteriosus. 3dly, Also in the arterial system ; the internal iliac arteries, under the name of hypogastric and umbilical, are continued from the foetus to the placenta, to which they return the blood which has circulated in the system of the foetus. 4thly, In the venous system; there is a communication between the umbilical vein and the inferior vena cava, called the ductus venosus. Fcetal circulation. — The pure blood is brought from the placenta by the umbilical vein. The umbilical vein passes through the umbilicus and enters the liver,where it divides into several branches, which may be arranged under three heads:— 1st., two or three which are distri- buted to the left lobe ; 2d., a single branch which com- municates with the portal vein in the transverse fissure, and supplies the right lobe ; and, 3d., a large branch, the ductus venosus, which passes directly backwards and joins the inferior cava. In the inferior cava, the pure blood becomes mixed with that which is returning from the