28 FEMORAL HERNIA. structures. They are disposed in the following order from without, inwards: — The external cutaneous nerve, 6. Iliacus internus muscle, 7. Anterior crural nerve, 8. Psoas magnus muscle, 9. Crural division of the genito-crural nerve, 10. Femoral artery, n.'| Femoral vein, 12. j- enclosed in a common sheath. Lymphatic vessels, J The sheath, 13. 14., of the femoral vessels is the fibrous covering which invests the artery and vein during their passage beneath the femoral arch. It is formed by the internal lining of the abdomen; and as this has received various names, according to the situations it may occupy, as transversalis fascia, iliac fascia, pelvic fascia, although actually but one and the same membrane, so the sheath is said to be formed in front by the transver- salis fascia, to the outer side, by the iliac fascia, and to the inner side by the pelvic fascia; for Poupart’s liga- ment is the line of union of these three regions of the internal abdominal fascia; and in escaping immediately beneath Poupart’s ligament the vessels necessarily carry with them a part of each. The breadth of the sheath of the vessels at Poupart’s ligament is two inches, and in the female more; but at four inches belowT the ligament, the sheath has diminished to three quarters of an inch. Now it is obvious that the artery and vein, placed side by side, cannot occupy an area two inches in breadth, and therefore that there must be either some other struc- ture situated within the sheath, or an imperfectly filled space. The latter is the fact; for, if we open the sheath, we shall see a space, 14., to the inner side of the vein, which is only occupied by loose cellular tissue, lymphatic vessels, and a lymphatic gland. So that the inner wall of the sheath is separated by a considerable interval from the vein, while the outer wall, 13., is in close contact, and adherent to the artery. The lymphatic gland is placed immediately under Pou- part’s ligament, and may be easily pushed into the cavity