203 CERVICAL GANGLIA. BRANCHES. k 6 four, viz. superior, inferior, external, and internal. The superior branches communicate with the ganglion above. The inferior, with the ganglion below. The external, with the spinal nerves at their exit from the interver- tebral foramina. The internal branches, however, are distributed to the viscera. The Branches of the superior cervical ganglion are, therefore, superior, inferior, external, and internal: to which may be added, as proper to this ganglion, anterior. The Superior branch enters the carotid canal and divides into two branches, which form frequent communications with each other (carotid plexus), and are ultimately dis- tributed with the terminal branches of the internal carotid artery. They communicate also with the sixth nerve in the cavernous sinus. The carotid plexus, formed by the communicating fila- ments passing between these two branches, is augmented by the reception of a branch from the Vidian, and another from the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal. The Inferior branch, often double, communicates with the middle cervical ganglion : it also sends filaments to the third and fourth cervical nerves. The External branches are the branches of communica- tion with the facial, glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, spinal accessory, and lingual nerves ; also with the first and second cervical nerves. The Internal branches are, pharyngeal, filaments com- municating with the pharyngeal plexus upon the middle constrictor muscle; laryngeal, to communicate with the external laryngeal nerve; and a long branch, which de- scends to the thorax, and is distributed to the heart; the Superior cardiac nerve (n. superficialis cordis). The Anterior branches are small soft filaments called nervimolles, which accompany the ramifications of the external carotid artery. The Middle cervical ganglion is of small size, and situated upon the inferior thyroid artery (hence, thyroid ganglion), opposite the fifth or sixth vertebra: sometimes it is behind the artery, or altogethA’ wanting. Branches. — Superior, communicating with the first cervical ganglion.