kiernan’s researches. 360 eating with the spaces. These are the stellated vessels of anatomists. When the vessels are well injected the stellaj are all continuous with each other, and the venous circles are formed; the stellated appear- ance, therefore, arises from the incomplete injection of the vessels.” The Lobular veins form a plexus within each lobule, and converge from the circumference to the centre to terminate in the hepatic vein. “ This plexus interposed between the inter-lobular portal veins and the iutra-lobular hepatic vein, constitutes the venous part of the lobule, and maybe called the lobular venous plexus. The circular, ovoid, and oblong portions of the biliary plexus, seen,” by means of a microscope of moderate power, “ between the branches of the venous plexus, are the acini of Malpighi. The venous branches returning the blood from the coats of the ducts, and from the vasa vasorum of all the vessels in the liver, terminate in the portal vein.” The Hepatic duct (Jig. 43. 7.) enters the liver by the transverse fissure, and accompanies the portal vein and hepatic artery through- out all the ramifications of the portal canals, and through the inter- lobular fissures, to the substance of the lobules, wherein it terminates by forming the lobular biliary plexus. Hence, the division which Mr. Kiernan has established for the portal vein, hepatic artery, and Glis- son’s capsule, is equally applicable to the duct, viz. vaginal, inter- lobular, and lobular. The Vaginal branches arisevfrom the principal ducts, nearly at right angles, and passing transversely across the capsule, divide into numerous branches, which form the vaginal plexus. The branches of the plexus run in the direction of the fissures, so as to form a net-work of vessels, corresponding in form to the fissures upon which they lie. From this net-work of ducts both lobular and inter-lobular branches arise; “ the former enter the lobules on the parietes of the canals ; the latter leave the canals at the spaces, to ramify between the lobules.” “ The transverse branches, and those which arise immediately from them, do not anastomose with each other, but the smaller branches sometimes appear to do so; I cannot, however, from dissection, affirm that they do, for those which appear to anastomose are exceed- ingly small vessels, and meet each other at the spaces, hence it is difficult to ascertain whether they really anastomose, or enter the spaces together without anastomosing.” The Inter-lobular ducts ramify with branches of the portal vein and hepatic artery, upon the capsules of the lobules in the inter-lobulur fissures. They communicate very freely with each other, so that in- jection thrown into the hepatic duct of the left side will return by that of the right. The Lobular ducts enter the substance of the lobules, and form a plexus, the lobular biliary, of which the lobule is principally com- posed. They terminate in ccecal extremities, as do other glands, and form the true glandular portion of the lobule. “ The coats of the ducts are highly vascular: the rugaj on their in- ternal surface, and those on the internal surface of the gall-bladder are formed by the ramifications of the larger blood-vessels, arteries as well as veins, covered by the mucous membrane. This membrane is