422 OTIC GANGLION. gland, it quits that nerve and communicates with the sub- maxillary ganglion, 20. The petrosal branch of the Vidian nerve receives a branch from the tympanic nerve while in the hiatus Fallopii. The Vidian nerve thus becomes the medium of com- munication between the spheno-palatine ganglion and submaxillary ganglion ; and between both of these gan- glia and the carotid plexus ; and through the tympanic nerve with the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumogastric nerves: and if the fusion of nervous substance be ad- mitted, between the whole of these and the facial, the auditory, and the gustatory nerves. 5. The Submaxillary ganglion {Jig. 49. 20.) is of small size, but very distinct, and is situated in the sub- maxillary gland. Its Branches of distribution are numerous, and ramify upon the ducts of the gland, and upon Wharton’s duct. Its Branches of communication are — 1. one or two small branches which join the gustatory nerve ; and, 2. several minute branches which communicate with the sympathetic filaments ramifying upon the facial artery. It is associated with the carotid plexus, and the other cranial ganglia, by the petrosal branch of the Vidian. 6. The Otic ganglion (Arnold’s *) is a small red body, resting against the inner surface of the inferior maxillary nerve, immediately below the foramen ovale ; it is in relation externally with the trunk of the inferior maxillary nerve, just at the point of union of the motor root; in- ternally, it rests against the cartilage of the Eustachian tube and tensor palati muscle; and,posteriorly, it is in contact with the arteria meningea media. It is closely adherent to the internal pterygoid nerve, and appears like a swelling upon that branch. The branches of the otic ganglion are seven in number; two of distribution, and five of communication. The Branches of distribution are—1. a small fila- * Frederick Arnold, “ Dissertatio Inauguralis de Parte Cephalica Nervi Sympathetici.” Heidelberg, 1826; and “ Ueber den Ohrkno- ten.” 1828.