PHYSIOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. 290 The Vessels of the globe of the eye are the long and short and anterior ciliary arteries, and the arteria centra- lis retinae. The long ciliary arteries, two in number, pierce the posterior part of the sclerotic, and pass forward on each side between that membrane and the choroid, to the ciliary ligament, where they divide into two branches, which are distributed to the iris. The short ciliary arteries pierce the posterior part of the sclerotic coat, and are distributed to the internal layer of the choroid mem- brane. The anterior ciliary are branches of the muscular arteries. They enter the eye through the anterior part of the sclerotic, and are distributed to the iris. It is the increased number of these arteries in iritis that forms the peculiar red zone around the circumference of the cornea. The Arteria centralis retinae enters the optic nerve at about half an inch from the globe of the eye, and passing through the porus opticus is distributed upon the inner surface of the retina, forming its vasc.ular layer; one branch pierces the centre of the vitreous humour, and supplies the capsule of the lens. The Nerves of the eyeball are the optic, two ciliary nerves from the nasal branch of the fifth, and the ciliary nerves from the lenticular ganglion. Observations. — The sclerotic is a tunic of protection, and the cornea a medium for the transmission of light. The choroid supports the vessels destined for the nou- rishment of the eye, and by its pigmentum nigrum ab- sorbs all loose and scattered rays that might confuse the image impressed upon the retina. The iris, by means of its powers of expansion and contraction, regulates the quantity of light admitted through the pupil. If the iris be thin, and the rays of light pass through its substance, they are immediately absorbed by the uvea, and if that layer be insufficient, they are taken up by the black pig- ment of the ciliary processes. In Albinoes, where there is a deficiency of pigmentum nigrum, the rays of light traverse the iris and even the sclerotic, and so overwhelm the eye with light, that sight is destroyed, except in the dimness of evening, or at night. In the manufacture of optical instruments, care is taken to colour their interior black with the same object, the absorption of scattered rays. The transparent Iamellated cornea and the humours of