MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 259 and narrow below, and at the point where they enter the pons Varolii they become considerably constricted. They are connected to each other in the middle fissure, at about an inch below the pons, by a decussation of their fibres, which form small interlacing bands crossing from side to side. Externally to the corpora pyramidalia are two oblong and rounded bodies, supposed to resemble olives in their form, and hence called Corpora olivaria (fig. 19. 3.). If these bodies be divided by a longitudinal section, a grey ziz-zag outline, resembling the corpus rhomboideum of the cerebellum, will be seen in the interior of each. This is the ganglion of the corpus olivare. Behind the corpus olivare is a narrow white band, which descends along the side of the medulla oblongata at the bottom of the lateral sulcus. This is the Respira- tory tract of Sir Charles Bell. The Corpora restiformia (fig. 19. 4.) (restis, a rope) are the remaining columns of the medulla oblongata, and form its posterior segment. They diverge superiorly to enter the cerebellum. Between the two corpora resti- formia posteriorly, are two other white bands, which diverge at the point of the calamus seriptorius, and join the corpora restiformia: these are the posterior median fascicidi of the medulla oblongata. If a thin layer of the pons Varolii be carefully raised, or if a longitudinal incision be made across it, it may easily be seen that the corpus pyramidale passes through the pons into the crus cerebri. If the crus cerebri be traced forwards, it will be found to enter the thalamus opticus, and leaving it by its opposite border to plunge into the corpus striatum, and pass from thence onwards 1; to the convolutions of the hemispheres. from pursuing this remarkable course, and spreading out as they advance, these fibres have been called by Gall the diverging fibres. While situated within the pons it is found that the fibres of the corpus pyramidale sepa- rate and spread out, and have grey substance interposed between them ; and that they quit the pons much in- creased in number and bulk, so as to form the crus cerebri. I he fibres of the crus cerebri again are separated in the thalamus opticus, and are intermingled with grev matter, i