62 SOLE OF THE FOOT. Dissection. — To expose the third layer of muscles without dis- turbing the vessels ; cut the tendons of the long flexors across through the insertion of the accessorius, and draw that muscle with the tendons backwards, by means of hooks, and snip off the digital extremities of the tendons. A little cleaning of fat and cellular tissue will then bring clearly into view the third layer of muscles. In this dissection the branches of the internal plantar nerve will run considerable risk, unless the student be careful. Tlie Flexor brevis pollicis arises by a pointed tendinous process from the side of the cuboid, and from the external and middle cuneiform bones, and is inserted by two beads into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. Two sesamoid bones are developed in the tendons of insertion of these two heads, and the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis lies in the groove between them. The Adductor pollicis arises from the cuboid bone, from the sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus, and from the base of the third and fourth metatarsal bones. It is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. The Flexor brevis minimi digiti arises from the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and from the sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus. It is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. The Transversus pedis arises by fleshy slips from the heads of the metatarsal bones of the four lesser toes. Its tendon is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. The plantar interossei muscles (page 64.) must be left until the arteries and nerves have been dissected and studied. Actions.—The actions of the muscles in the sole of the foot are implied in their names. See analysis (page 64.) Arteries of the Sole of the Foot. The Arteries of the sole of the foot are the internal and external plantar, the terminal branches of the posterior tibial artery. Their distribution may be thus expressed in a tabular form : — Posterior tibial - internal plantar external plantar muscular. • , f anterior perforating. ° a collateral. _ posterior perforating.