CEREBRUM. 242 with the progressive development observed in the lower animals ; the human brain is passing through the phases of improving development, which distinguishes the lowest from the lower creatures: and we are naturally led to the same conclusions with regard to the architecture of the human brain, that we were led to establish as the principle of development in the inferior creatures — that it is composed of primitive cords, primitive ganglia upon those cords, commissures to connect those ganglia, and developments from those ganglia. In the adult, the primitive longitudinal cords have be- come cemented together, to form the spinal cord. But, at the upper extremity, they separate from each other under the name of crura cerebri. The first pair of ganglia developed from the primitive cords, have grown into the cerebellum; the second pair (the optic lobes of animals) have become tbe corpora quadrigemina of man. The third pair, the optic thalami, and the fourth, the corpora striata, are the basis of the hemispheres, which, the merest lamina in the fish, has become the largest portion of the brain in man. And tbe fifth pair (olfactory lobes), so large in tbe lowest forms, lias dwindled into the olfactory bulbs of man. Cerebrum. The Cerebrum is divided into two hemispheres by the great longitudinal fissure, which lodges the falx cerebri, and marks the original development of the brain by two symmetrical halves. Each hemisphere, upon its under surface, admits of a division into three lobes, anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior lobe rests upon the roof of the orbit, and is separated from the middle by tbe fissure of Sylvius. * The middle lobe is received into the middle fossa, in the base of tbe skull, and is separated from the posterior by a slight impression produced by the ridge of the petrous bone. The posterior lobe is supported by the tentorium. * James Dubois, a celebrated professor of anatomy in Paris, where he succeeded Vidius in 1550, although known much earlier by his works and discoveries, but particularly by his violence in the defence of Galen. His name was Latinised to Sylvius.