ANTERIOR TIBIAL REGION. — MUSCLES. 46 the inner malleolus, and is distributed to the inner side of the foot and great toe, and communicates with the in- ternal cutaneous branch of the fibular cutaneous. The deep fascia is strong and tendinous, and firmly attached to the tibia and fibula. By its internal surface it gives origin to the muscles of this region, and between the two malleoli it forms a dense band, called anterior annular ligament, which binds down the tendons of the extensor muscles in their passage forwards to the dorsum of the foot. An incision may now be made through the deep fascia, in the course of a line drawn from the midpoint between the head of the fibula and spine of the tibia, to midway between the inner and outer malleolus. This will mark the course of the anterior tibial artery: and an incision made in any part of this line will expose that vessel in its course between the muscles. The structures to be divided, are the same as in any other part of the body. (Vide Introduction, page 1.) The deep fascia is easily separated from the muscles in the lower part of the leg, but above it is closely connected to them, and cannot be removed without dividing some of their fibres. Muscles of the anterior tibial region : Tibialis anticus, Extensor communis digitorum, Peroneus tertius, Extensor proprius pollicis. The Tibialis anticus muscle (flexor tarsi tibialis) arises from the upper two thirds of the tibia, from the inter- osseous membrane, and from the deep fascia; its tendon passes through a distinct sheath in the annular ligament, and is inserted into the inner side of the internal cuneiform bone, and base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The Extensor longus digitorum arises from the head of the tibia, from the upper three fourths of the fibula, from the interosseous membrane, and from the deep fascia. Be- low it divides into four tendons, which pass beneath the annular ligament, to be inserted into the second and third phalanges of the four lesser toes. The mode of insertion of the extensor tendons, both in the hand and in the foot,