71 MODE OJt' DISTRIBUTION. would be subjected to injury, both from external pressure and over extension. The brachial artery is therefore placed along the inner side of the arm, as is the femoral in the thigh ; the brachial dips deeply into the space of the elbow, as does the popliteal into the space of the ham. Arrived at the bend of the elbow, the brachial artery accommodates itself to the augmented lateral breadth of the fore-arm, and its increased number of components, the radius, the ulna, and intermediate space, by dividing into three branches corresponding with these three parts, the two bones and the interosseous space. Its branches, therefore, are radial, ulna, and interosseous; as in the leg we find the posterior tibial and fibular corresponding with the two bones, and the anterior tibial with the in- terosseous space. The Radial artery supplies all the parts placed upon the radial side of the fore-arm, and passing between the two heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle, is dis- tributed to the thumb and deep structures in the hand, under the name of the deep palmar arch. The Ulnar supplies all the parts placed upon the ulnar side of the fore-arm, and in the hand forms the superficial palmar arch, from which the branches pass off, which are distri- buted to the fingers. In the supply of branches, the muscles necessarily come in for a large share, which receive no names unless they assume a remarkable magnitude, as the profunda arteries. Other named branches owe their names to peculiarity of structure, and are, therefore, easily remembered. But the joints which are exposed to pressure and are uncovered, except by integument, derive an abundant supply of branches from all the surrounding sources. For instance, the elbow joint is provided with eight nutrient branches, the superior profunda, and its posterior articular branch, inferior profunda, anastomotica magna, radial recurrent, anterior and posterior ulnar recurrents, and interosseous recurrent. The knee has seven named branches, the wrist three, and the ankle four. Thus it may be shown that the principle of arrange- ment of the arteries, as of the muscles and the rest of the systems, is the same throughout the entire body : the