24 NERVES. — ANTERIOR FEMORAL REGION. The Obturator artery, after passing through the ob- turator foramen, divides into two branches ; anterior, which rests upon the adductor brevis, supplying that muscle, together with the pectineus and adductor longus: and posterior, which follows the direction of the obturator externus muscle to the space between the gemellus in- ferior and quadratus femoris, where it inosculates with the ischiatic artery. It sends a branch through the notch in the acetabulum to the hip-joint. The Veins in this region, as in every other of the body, are superficial and deep. The superficial, are the internal saphenous, and its tributaries. The deep, are the femoral and profunda, with their tributaries. The femoral vein commences at the hole in the adductor magnus, and as- cends behind the artery to within two inches of Poupart’s ligament, where it receives the profunda vein ; it then becomes placed to the inner side of the artery, and con- tinues in that position to Poupart’s ligament. After pass- ing beneath the ligament, it receives the name of external iliac vein. The profunda vein, commencing with the ultimate ramifications of the profunda artery, ascends in front of that vessel to its origin from the common femoral artery, when it joins the femoral vein. The tributary veins are those accompanying the branches of the main arteries. They are usually two to each branch, one on either side: hence they are called vence comites. They communicate freely across the cylinder of the artery by short transverse trunks. Veins are considerably larger than the arteries which they accompany. Nerves of the Anterior Femoral Region. The student will now direct his attention to the nerves of this region, fig. 2. They are all derived from the lumbar plexus : and are the External cutaneous, Genito-crural, {Cutaneous branches. Muscular, Saphenous. Obturator. The External cutaneous nerve, 4., is described with the superficial layer at page 12. The crural portion of the i