t BASILAR ARTERY. 239 The Anterior spinal is a small artery which unites with its fellow of the opposite side, and forming a common trunk, descends on the anterior aspect of the spinal cord to the cauda equina, where it is distributed. The Posterior spinal winds around the medulla ob- longata to the posterior aspect of the cord, and descends on either side nearly as far as the cauda equina, com- municating very freely with the spinal branches of the intercostal arteries. The Posterior meningeal., often a branch of the inferior cerebellar, is distributed to the dura mater. The Inferior cerebellar arteries wind around the upper part of the medulla oblongata to the under surface of the cerebellum, to which they are distributed. This artery gives off a small branch which accompanies the seventh pair of nerves into the meatus auditorius internus. The Basilar artery, so named from its position at the base of the skull, runs forwards to the upper border of the pons Varolii, where it divides into four ultimate branches, two to either side. While resting against the pons, it gives off several transverse branches to the crura cerebelli. Its branches are, Transverse, * ' Superior cerebellar, Posterior cerebral. 1 % The Superior cerebellar supplies the upper surface of the cerebellum, and inosculates with the inferior cere- bellar. The Posterior cerebral passes off on either side to the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, and communicates on the corpus callosum with the anterior cerebral arteries. It is separated from the superior cerebellar artery, by the third nerve, and is in close relation with the fourth, in its course around the crus cerebri. Anteriorly near its origin, it gives off a tuft of small vessels, which enter the locus per- foratus, and it receives the posterior communicatingarteries from the internal carotid. The communications established between the anterior cerebral arteries in front, and the internal carotids and posterior cerebral arteries behind, by the communicating arteries, constitute the Circle of Willis. Were we called