FORAMEN OF WINSLOW. 339 Q 2 called Glissons capsule. * The relative position of the three vessels is, — the artery to the left, the duct to the right, and the vein between and behind. If the finger be introduced behind this right border of the lesser omentum, it will be situated in an opening- called the foramen of Winslow. + In front of the finger will lie the right border of the lesser omentum ; behind it the diaphragm covered by the ascending or posterior layer of the peritoneum ; below, the hepatic artery, curving forwards from the coeliac axis; and, above, the lobulus Spigelii. These, therefore, are the boundaries of the foramen of Winslow, which is nothing more than a con- striction of the general cavity of the peritoneum at this point, arising out of the necessity for the hepatic and gastric arteries passing forwards from the cceliac axis to reach their respective viscera. If air be blown through the foramen of Winslow, it will descend behind the lesser omentum and stomach to the space between the descending and ascending pair of layers, forming the great omentum. This is sometimes called the lesser cavity of the peritoneum, and that ex- ternal to the foramen the greater cavity; in which case the foramen is considered as the means of communication between the two. There is a great objection to this division, as it might lead the inexperienced to believe that there were really two cavities. There is but one only, the foramen of Winslow being merely a constriction of that one, to facilitate the communication between the nutrient arteries and the viscera of the upper part of the abdomen. The Great omentum consists of four layers of perito- neum, the two which descend from the stomach, and the same two,returningupon themselves to the transverse colon. A quantity of adipose substance is deposited in its struc- ture. It would appear to perform a double function in i the economy — 1st, protecting the intestines from cold; * Francis Glisson, Professor of Medicine in the University of Cambridge. His work, “ De Anatomia Hepatis,” was published in 1654. f Jacob Benignus Winslow: his “ Exposition Anatomique de la Structure du Corps Humain,” was published in Paris in 1732.