14< SAPHENOUS OPENING. CRIBRIFORM FASCIA. form process immediately overlays and is reflected upon the sheath of the femoral vessels; and the lower ex- tremity of the curve is continuous with the pubic por- tion. The 'pubic portion is also attached to the spine of the pubis, and along the pectineal line, as far as the inner border of the psoas muscle: here it divides into two layers, which embrace that muscle and the iliacus, and are then lost in the fascial coverings surrounding the different muscles on the outer side of the thigh. From this description, it will be obvious that the iliac portion, being attached to Poupart’s ligament, must be on a plane considerably anterior to the pubic portion, which is attached to the bone; and it is between the two that the femoral vessels are placed, enclosed in their sheath. It follows also from this disposition that the saphenous opening is oblique in its direction with regard to these two layers of fascia. It is, moreover, closed by some dense cellular tissue, which is perforated by a num- ber of minute openings for the transmission of the super- ficial lymphatic vessels of the lower extremity, and is hence named cribriform fascia (cribrum, a sieve). This cribriform fascia would be altogether unworthy the no- tice of the dissector, were it not for the arbitrary import- ance attached to every fibre of membrane or process of fascia that may possess the slightest relation to the pro- trusion of intestine from the cavity of the abdomen. For this reason it is that the saphenous opening is so urgently recommended to the student’s attention ; and the cri- briform fascia, from its position, must necessarily form one of the coverings of the femoral hernia. The student may now remove the fascia lata, by dissecting it from its loose cellular attachment to the muscles, following always the course of theif fibres. If the student would dissect well, he must treasure this rule as a golden maxim,—“muscles must always be dissected in the course of their fibres.” And, let us remind him again (for we cannot too strenu- ously insist upon the application of the principles of dissection to the operations of surgery) that, in the liv- ing body, the same rule must be rigidly adhered to, if a successful issue be desired.