NASAL DUCT. 295 first ascends, then turns suddenly inwards towards the sac, forming an abrupt angle. The inferior duct forms the same kind of angle, by descending at first, and then turning abruptly inwards. They are dense and elastic in structure, and remain constantly open, so that they act like capillary tubes in absorbing the tears from the surface of the eye. The two fasciculi of the tensor tarsi muscle are inserted into these ducts, and serve to draw them inwards. The Lachrymal sac (jig. 33. 7.) is the upper extremity of the nasal duct, and is not more dilated than any other portion of the canal. It is lodged in the groove of the lachrymal bone, and is often distinguished internally from the nasal duct by a semilunar or circular valve. It con- sists of mucous membrane, but is covered in and retained in its place by a fibrous expansion, derived from the tendon of the orbicularis, which is inserted into the ridge on the lachrymal bone. It is also covered by the tensor tarsi muscle, which arises from the same ridge, and in its action upon the lachrymal ducts may serve to compress the lachrymal sac. The Nasal duct (fig. 33. 8.) is a short canal directed downwards and backwards and a little inwards to the inferior meatus of the nose, where it terminates. It is lined by the mucous membrane, which is continuous with the conjunctiva above and the pituitary membrane of the nose below. Obstruction to this duct gives origin to the disease called fistula lachrymalis. Vessels and nerves. — The lachrymal gland is sup- plied with blood by the lachrymal branch of the ophthal- mic artery, and with nerves by the lachrymal branch of the ophthalmic and orbital branch of the superior maxillary. The Organ of Hearing. The Ear is composed of three parts,—]. external ear ; 2. middle ear, or tympanum; 3. internal ear, or laby- rinth. J The External ear consists of two portions, the pinna anti meatus; the former representing a kind of funnel which collects the vibrations of the atmosphere, called sount s, and the latter a tube which conveys the vibrations to the tympanum. o 41