13 FASCIA LATA. SAPHENOUS OPENING. femoris muscle to the outer and posterior side of the thigh ; the other, consisting of two or three nerves, is distributed along the external and anterior border of the thigh, as far as the knee. The middle cutaneous nerves, 13., two or three in num- ber, are branches of the anterior crural nerve : they pierce the deep fascia, at variable distances, below Poupart’s ligament, to be distributed to the superficial fascia and integument on the front of the thigh as low down as the knee. The internal cutaneous nerve is the crural division of the genito-c.rural nerve; it pierces the deep fascia at about four inches below Poupart’s ligament, and runs down the inner side of the thigh towards the knee. When these structures have been well examined, the deep layer of superficial fascia may be removed, in order to bring into view the deep fascia. The deep fascia of the thigh, from being the most ex- tensive in the body, is named fascia lata (latus, broad). It is an extremely dense membrane, consisting of glistening tendinous fibres, disposed longitudinally and circularly around the limb ; is thickest upon the outer side of the thigh, and thinner upon its inner side. The fascia lata envelopes the whole of the muscles of the thigh, and sends processes inwards, which form distinct sheaths for each. It is attached above to the prominent points about the pelvis, viz., to the pubis, Poupart’s ligament, crest of the ilium, sacrum, and ischium; below, to the condyles of the femur and patella ; and behind, to the linea aspera. Besides these, it has two muscular attachments, one by means of the tensor vaginae femoris ; the other through the gluteus maximus. It is perforated at several points for the passage of the cutaneous nerves, and near to the pubis is the saphenous opening. The existence of this opening, fig. 1. n., causes the division of the upper part of the fascia lata into two por- tions, an iliac portion situated towards the ilium, and a pubic portion towards the pubis. The iliac portion is attached along Poupart’s ligament, as far as the spine of the pubis ; from this point it is reflected downwards, in a curved direction, forming a sharp edge, called the falciform process (falx, a sickle). The edge of the falci-