361 HEPATIC DUCT HEPATIC ARTERY. studded with vascular papillae; and to the rupture of the delicate vessels forming these papilla: is to be attributed the facility with which Soem- mering and other anatomists injected the ducts from the arteries and veins, and not to any direct communication between the vessels and the ducts.” The venous blood is returned from the ducts into the portal vein. “ From their extreme vascularity alone we might infer, that the ducts serve another purpose besides that of the conveyance of bile; and all anatomists are acquainted with the muciparous follicles of the lining membrane of their larger branches; in the smaller branches the existence of the follicles has been denied. In the former they are irregularly distributed over the surface ; in the latter they are closely arranged in two longitudinal lines, occupying opposite sides of the ducts ; and arranged in this manner they will be found in the smallest duct that can be examined.” The Hepatic artery enters the liver with the portal vein and he- patic duct, at the transverse fissure, and accompanies their ramifica- tions to their ultimate terminations. Its branches, therefore, admit of the same division, with those of the portal vein and hepatic duct, into the vaginal, interlobular, and lobular. In the portal canals, “ the hepatic artery (Jig. 43. 6.) and duct (7.), running together on one side of the canai, or winding spirally within it, are in opposition with but a very limited number of spaces; the two vessels are, however, brought into opposition with all the spaces by means of plexuses, from which the interlobular branches arise. ” “ The branches forming those plexuses are the first which arise from the artery, duct, and vein ; they form a vascular sheath around these vessels, and may be called vaginal branches." The Vaginal branches anastomose very freely with each other, so much so that “ if the left artery be injected in the transverse fissure, the injection will return by the right artery ; this communication takes place by means of vaginal branches, which the left artery gives off in the fissure, and which anastomose with similar branches of the right artery.” The Interlobular arteries are given off from the vaginal plexus, and enter the interlobular spaces and fissures, and are distributed upon the capsular surface of the lobules, but more particularly within the coats of the interlobular ducts, around which they form a very vascular net- work. “ No anastomoses can be shown to exist between the inter- lobular arteries ; ” — “ but, as the vaginal arteries communicate freely with each other, and as the interlobular ducts also communicate with each other, and as the arteries ramify in the coats of the ducts, we may conclude that the interlobular arteries anastomose.” “ From the superficial interlobular fissures, small arteries emerge and ramify in the proper capsule, on the convex and concave surface of the liver, and in the ligaments. These are the capsular arteries." \\ here the capsule is well developed, “ these vessels cover the surfaces of the liver with a beautiful plexus,” and “ anastomose with branches if the phrenic, internal mammary, and supra-renal arteries,” and with he epigastric. R