397 INTERNAL ORGANS. The Clitoris is a small elongated organ, situated in front of the pubis, and supported by a suspensory ligament. It is formed by the union of two small bodies, which are analogous to the corpora cavernosa of the penis, and, like them, arise from the ramus of the pubis and ischium on each side, by two crura. The extremity of the clitoris is called its glans. It is composed of erectile tissue, en- closed in a dense layer of fibrous membrane, and is sus- ceptible of erection. Like the penis, it is provided with two small muscles, the erectores clitoridis, which arise from the ramus of the ischium, and are inserted into the crura. At about an inch beneath the clitoris is the entrance of the vagina, an elliptic opening, marked by a projecting margin. The entrance to the vagina is closed in the vir- gin by a membrane called the Hymen, which is stretched across the opening. Sometimes the membrane forms a complete septum, and gives rise to great inconvenience by preventing the escape of the menstrual effusion. It is then called an imperforate hymen. The hymen is not by any means a necessary accompaniment to virginity, for it does not constantly exist. When present it assumes a variety of appearances : it may be a membranous fringe, with a round opening in the centre, or it is a semilunar fold, leaving an opening in front; or a transverse septum, having an opening both in front and behind. The rupture of the hymen or its rudimentary existence, gives rise to the appearance of granulations around the opening of the vagina: these are called caruncidce myr- tiformes. The triangular smooth surface between the clitoris and the entrance of the vagina, which is bounded on each side by the upper portions of the nymphae, is the Vestibule. At the upper angle of the vagina is an elevation formed by the projection of the upper wall of the canal: and im- mediately in front of this tubercle, and surrounded by it, is the opening of the urethra, the Meatus urinarius. Internal Organs of Generation. Vagina. — The Vagina is a membranous canal, lead- ing from the vulva to the uterus, and corresponding in direction with the axis of the outlet of the pelvis. At the