127 LEFT VENTRICLE. two valves, and the tendinous cords and muscular columns; they may be thus arranged : Auriculo-ventricular opening, Aortic opening, Mitral valves, Semilunar valves, Chordae tendineae, Columnae carneae. The Auriculo-ventricular opening, 18., is a dense fibrous ring, covered by the lining membrane of the heart, but smaller in size than that of the right side. The Mitral valves, 20., are attached around the auriculo- ventricular opening, as are the tricuspid in the right ven- tricle. They are thicker than the tricuspid, and consist of only two segments, of which the larger is placed between the auriculo-ventricular opening and the com- mencement of the aorta, and acts the part of a valve to that foramen, during the filling of the ventricle. The difference of size of the two valves, both being triangular, and the space between them, has given rise to the idea of a “ bishop's mitre” after which they are named. These valves, like the tricuspid, are furnished with an apparatus of tendinous cords, chordce tendinece, which are attached to two very large columnce carnecc. The Columnce carnece admit of the same arrangement into three kinds, as on the right side. Those which are free by one extremity are only two in number, and much larger than those on the opposite side. The Semilunar valves, 21., are placed around the com- mencement of the aorta, like those of the pulmonary artery, and, like them, are attached to the scolloped border, by which the aorta is connected with the ventricle. The tubercle in the centre of each fold is larger than those in the pulmonary valves, and it was these that Arantius par- ticularly described; but the term “ corpora Arantii,” is now applied indiscriminately to both. The fossae between the semilunar valves and the cylinder of the artery are much larger than those of the pulmonary artery ; they are called the “ sinus aortici.” Structure of the heart.—The muscular fibres of the heart are divided into proper and common. The G 4-