PALMAR REGION. MUSCLES. 110 the two layers of superficial fascia. This is the Palmaris brevis. Its fibres arise from the palmar fascia, and pass transversely inwards to be inserted into the integument on the inner border of the hand. When the superficial and deep fascia is removed, the Abductor minimi digiti will be seen arising from the pisi- form bone. It is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little finger. The Flexor brevis minimi digiti arises from the unci- form bone and annular ligament, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx. The Flexor ossis metacarpi (adductor, opponens) arises from the unciform bone and annular ligament, and is in- serted into the whole length of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Middle palmar region.—The muscles in this region are the The Lumbricales, four in number, are accessories to the deep flexor muscles. They arise from the radial side of the tendons of the deep flexor, and are inserted into the aponeurotic expansion of the extensor tendons (Jig. 9. 7.) on the radial side of the fingers. The Palmar interossei, three in number, are placed upon the metacarpal bones, rather than between them. They arise from the base of the metacarpal bone of one finger, and are inserted into the base of the first phalanx and aponeu- rotic expansion of the extensor tendon of the same finger. The first (fig. 10. 4.) belongs to the index finger; the se- cond, 6., to the ring finger; and the third, 8., to the little finger. The middle finger being excluded. On turning to the dorsum of the hand, the four dorsal interossei are seen in the four spaces between the meta- carpal bones. They are bipenniform muscles (fig. 9. 5. 5.), and arise by two heads, 6. G., from the adjoining sides of the base of the metacarpal bones. They are inserted into the base of the first phalanges, and aponeurosis of the ex- tensor tendons. The first (fig- 10.3.) is inserted into the index finger, and from its use is called abductor indicis; the second and Lumbricales,