DIRECTION AND COVERINGS. 29 of the abdomen by using very slight pressure with the finger. The opening, 15., thus produced by the finger is the femoral ring: it is bounded in front by Poupart’s liga- ment, l., behind by the body of the pubis, 2., to the outer side by the femoral vein, 12., and to the inner side by Gimbernat’s ligament, 16. This ligament is one insertion of Poupart’s ligament, which expands in a radi- ated form to be attached along the sharp edge of the pectineal line. If the student, before passing his finger through the femoral ring from the sheath, should attempt to press it from within the abdomen, after tearing away the perito- neum, he will find an obstacle in a thin cellular mem- brane which is spread across the opening at its entrance: this is the septum crurale. Now the course which the intestine follows in femoral hernia may be thus described. It first descends through the femoral ring into the sheath of the vessels, carrying with it the peritoneum and septum crurale. Secondly, it advances forwards through the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, this being the weakest side of the sheath of the vessels. In this part of its course it gains two addi- tional coverings, viz. the sheath of the vessels called u fascia propria,” and the perforated cellular tissue before described (page 14.) as forming the cribriform fascia. Thirdly, coming in contact with the numerous small veins which open at this point into the saphenous vein, and spread before the descending hernia like a net, it is prevented from farther descent, and is pressed upwards over Poupart’s ligament. To return it again to the cavity of the abdomen we must pursue the converse of the direction which is fol- lowed in its descent, i. e. we must press it first downwards below Poupart’s ligament, then backwards through the saphenous opening, then upwards through the femoral ring. But should the intestine be strangulated, that is, nipped in its passage, so as to arrest the progress of the aliment, and by distension and pressure cause obstruction to the circulation of the blood, and endanger the life of the patient, we must have recourse to an operation for its c 3