59 SOLE OF THE FOOT. d 6 Operation. — From the very deep position of the fibular artery beneath the flexor longus pollicis muscle, and behind the fibula, this is a very difficult operation. This may well be conceived, when it is recollected that it has been proposed to saw away a portion of the bone to reach the artery. Like the operation on the upper part of the tibial arteries, it is not likely to be required excepting in the case of accidental wound. The operation is performed in the middle third of the leg, previously to the division of the artery into the anterior and posterior peroneal. An incision, four or five inches in length, must be made parallel with and at about an inch distant from the fibula, the integument, superficial and deep fascia, being drawn aside. The soleus and intermuscular fascia must be divided to the same extent. The flexor longus pollicis is then to be separated from the fibula, and drawn outwards. Beneath this muscle, by the side of the fibula, will be found the artery. It has no accompanying nerve. The Anterior jjeronectl artery, at the lower third of the leg, pierces the interosseous membrane, and is distributed on the front of the outer malleolus, anastomosing with the external malleolar and tarsal arteries. The Posterior peroneal continues onwards to the pos- terior aspect of the outer malleolus, anastomosing with the anterior peroneal, tarsal, external plantar, and pos- terior tibial arteries. The Muscular branches are distributed to the muscles in the course of the posterior tibial artery. The Posterior tibial nerve, which is the only nerve in this region, is a continuation of the popliteal: it lies at first to the outer side of the artery, rests upon it in the middle of its course, and then gets to its outer side again, in which situation it enters the sole of the foot. Sole of the Foot. Dissection. — The sole of the foot is best dissected by carrying an incision around the heel, and along the inner and outer borders of the foot, to the great and little toes. This incision should divide the integument and superficial fascia, and both together should be dissected from the deep fascia, as far forward as the base of the phalanges, where they may be removed from the foot altogether. The Superficial fascia is closely adherent to the integu- ment ; and, when thus turned up, has the appearance of a dense cushion of fat held down at numerous points by strong cellular tissue. The Deep, or plantar fascia, is a beautiful structure stretched between the under surface of the tuberosity of the calcaneum and the bases of the first phalanges of the