OTIC GANGLION. 222 they are best dissected; the ganglion of Ribes belongs to the consideration of the brain ; and the ciliary has been already noticed, page 214. Otic ganglion. — A small ganglion discovered by Ar- nold of Heidelberg, is situated in contact with the internal surface of the inferior maxillary nerve, near to the fora- men ovale. A good demonstration of this ganglion re- quires a fresh subject and an especial dissection. In an ordinary dissection it will be best seen by dividing the inferior maxillary nerve at the foramen ovale, and drawing it outwards with hooks. The student should then dissect its inner surface carefully, under a strong light, and he will perceive a small ash-coloured body upon the course of the internal pterygoid nerve. Its filaments are too small to be seen in this dissection; they communicate with the motor root of the inferior maxillary, the auricu- lar, tympanic, facial, and sympathetic nerves, and two are distributed to the two muscles, tensor tympani and tensor palati. The spheno-palatine ganglion should next be examined : for this purpose the root of the pterygoid process must be broken away with the chisel. A glance at the base of the skull will show the student how far this incision should be carried. The two descending branches from the superior maxillary nerve are the proper guides to the ganglion. The Spheno-palatine ganglion (Meckel’s) is the largest of the cranial ganglia, and is situated in the pterygo-maxillary fossa. It gives off branches in four different directions. Upwards, two branches to communicate with the supe- rior maxillary nerve. Doivnwards, the posterior palatine nerves. Inwards, spheno-palatine or nasal branches. Backwards, the Vidian nerve. The Posterior palatine nerves, three in number, descend through the palatine canal to the posterior palatine fora- mina, distributing branches to the mucous membrane of the nose, Eustachian tube, and palate. The Nasal branches pass into the nose through the spheno-palatine foramen, supplying the mucous mem- brane, covering the turbinate bones and septum. One of the latter, longer than the rest (naso-palatine branch),