272 SPINAL NERVES. ORIGIN. and give origin to the motor roots of the spinal nerves. They are continued upwards into the medulla oblongata, under the name of corporapyramidalia. The Lateral columns {fig. 28. 13. 13.) are divided in their function between motion and sensation ; and contain the fasciculus described by Sir Charles Bell as the re- spiratory tract. Some anatomists consider the anterior and lateral column on each side as a single column, under the name of antero-latercil. The Posterior {fig. 28. 14.14.) are the columns of sen- sation, and give origin to the sensitive roots of the spinal nerves. Their superior terminations are named corpora restiformia. The Median posterior columns {fig. 28. 15.15.) have no function at present assigned to them. If a transverse section {fig. 28.) of the spinal cord be made, its internal structure may be seen and examined. It would then appear to be composed of two hollow cylinders of white matter, placed side by side, and con- nected by a narrow white commissure, 9. Each cjdinder is filled with grey substance, which is connected by a commissure of the same matter. The form of the grey substance, as observed in the section, is that of two half moons placed back to back, and joined by a transverse band, 10. The horns of the moons correspond to the sulci of origin of the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves. The anterior horns do not quite reach this surface, but the posterior appear upon the surface, and form a narrow grey line. Spinal nerves. — There are thirty-o?iepairs of spinal nerves, each arising by two roots, an anterior or motor root, and a posterior or sensitive root. The Anterior roots {fig. 28. 15.) arise from a narrow white line, and approach nearer to the middle line as they descend. The Posterior roots {fig. 28. 17.), more regular than the anterior, arise from a narrow grey band formed by the internal grey substance of the cord. These roots are larger, and the filaments of origin more numerous, than those of the anterior roots. A ganglion, 18., is formed upon each of the posterior roots in the interver- tebral foramina. The first cervical nerve forms an ex-