ANALYSIS OF ARRANGEMENT 64 and a half, and the nerve one and a half. The internal plantar artery supplies half a toe, and the nerve three and a half. The Internal plantar nerve, larger than the external, lies in the fissure between the abductor pollicis and flexor brevis digitorum, and divides into four branches, which pass forwards between the first and second layers of mus- cles to be distributed to the three inner toes and one side of the fourth. The External plantar nerve, the smaller of the two, fol- lows the course of the external plantar artery, to the outer border of the musculus accessorius, beneath which it sends several large muscular branches to supply the sole of the foot. It then gives branches to the outer bor- der of the foot, and sends forwards two digital branches to supply the little toe and one half the next. When the arteries and nerves have been examined, the muscles may be removed which impede the view of the plantar interossei. The plantar interossei muscles are three in number, and are placed upon rather than between the metatarsal bones. They arise from the base of the meta- tarsal bones of the three outer toes, and are inserted into the inner side of the extensor tendon, and base of the first phalanx of the same toes. In their action they are all abductors. When the anatomy of the muscles, vessels, and nerves of the sole of the foot is completed, and the student is preparing to study the ligaments, he should lay open the groove in the cuboid bone by dividing the ligamentous sheath in which it is contained, and expose the tendon of the peroneus longus in its passage across the foot, to its insertion into the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. In that portion of the tendon which lies in contact with the cuboid, he will find a sesamoid bone. In some instances the deposit of bone has not taken place, and the thickening in that portion of the tendon is merely fibro- cartilaginous. Analysis of the Arrangement and Actions of the Muscles of the lower Extremity. The lower extremity is composed of, 1st. the femur; 2d. the tibia and fibula ; 3d. the tarsus; 4th. the toes. The