POSTERIOR REGION OF THE FORE-ARM. 108 ligament forms for them a number of distinct sheaths. Their relative position from radius to ulna must be atten- tively studied. Into the base of the styloid process of the radius is inserted the tendon of the supinator longus. Immediately in front of the styloid process, is a groove which lodges the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi and primi internodii; immediately behind it another, broad and shallow, for the tendons of the extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior, which are crossed obliquely by a superficial sheath in the annular ligament for the extensor secundi internodii. Farther inwards is a small groove for the tendon of the extensor indicis, and a large one for the extensor communis. Upon the ulna is a groove for the extensor minimi digiti and extensor carpi ulnaris. They may be thus arranged in a tabular form:— {Extensor ossis metacarpi, primi internodii. Styloid process, the insertion of the tendon of the supinator longus. {Extensor secundi internodii, carpi radialis longior, • carpi radialis brevior. Extensor indicis. {Extensor communis digitorum, minimi digiti, ■ carpi ulnaris. Actions. — The anconeus is associated in its action with the triceps extensor cubiti: it assists in extending the fore-arm upon the arm. The supinator longus and brevis effect the supination of the fore-arm, and antagonize the two pronators. The extensores carpi radialis, longior, and brevior, and ulnaris extend the wrist in opposition to the two flexors of the carpus. The extensor communis digitorum restores the fingers to the straight position, after being flexed by the two flexors, sublimis and pro- fundus. The extensor ossis metacarpi, primi internodii, and secundi internodii pollicis, are the especial extensors of the thumb, and serve to balance the actions of the flexor ossis metacarpi, flexor brevis, and flexor longus pollicis. The extensor indicis gives-the character of ex- tension to the index finger, and is hence named indicator,