APPENDIX Mammary Glands. The Mamma are situated in the pectoral region ; and are separated from the pectoralis major muscle by a thin layer of superficial fascia. They exist in the male as well as in the female, but in a rudimentary state, unless excited into growth by some peculiar action, such as the loss or atrophy of the testes. Their base is somewhat elliptical, the long diameter corresponding with the direction of the fibres of the pectoralis major muscle. The left mamma is generally a little larger than the right. Near the centre of the convexity of each mamma is a small pro- jection of the integument, called the nipple, which is surrounded by an areola having a coloured tint. In the female before impregnation, the colour of the areola is a delicate pink; after impregnation it assumes a brownish hue which deepens in colour as pregnancy advances; and after the birth of a child, the brownish tint continues through life. The areola is furnished wdth a considerable number of sebaceous follicles, which secrete a peculiar substance for the protection of the delicate cuticle around the nipple, against the friction of dress. During suckling these follicles are very much increased in size, and have the appearance of small pimples, projecting from the skin. At this period they serve by their increased secretion to defend the nipple and areola from the excoriating action of the saliva of the infant. In Structure, the mamma is a conglomerate gland, and consists of lobes, which are held together by a dense and firm cellular tissue; the lobes are composed of lobules; and the lobules of minute ccecal vesicles, from which the secretion is conveyed by minute ducts. The ducts from a number of these ccecal vesicles unite to form a single duct, and the union of a number of these ducts constitutes an ex- cretory duct. The Excretory ducts converge from the lobules towards the centre of the gland, where they run parallel with each other, without forming any communications, to the extremity of the nipple. Near the base of the nipple they present a number of dilatations (ampullas), which serve the purpose of reservoirs to the secretion. The ducts and ccecal vesicles are lined throughout by a mucous membrane, which is continuous at the apex of the nipple with the intetrument.