SURGICAL. OBSERVATIONS. 9 B 5 cess of the pubis along the inner border of the thigh to the projection on the internal condyle, a second line, 4., drawn from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and crossing the former at the middle of the thigh, will mark the direction of the upper margin of the sartorius muscle, and enclose a triangular space, which is bounded above by Poupart’s ligament. Within this triangle, the femoral artery may be laid bare and secured, in any part of the line 2. which marks its course ; the usual situation for ligature of the femoral artery, in popliteal aneurism, being at the point where the upper margin of the sartorius crosses its course, the border of this muscle forming the natural guide for the direction of the incision. At the pubic angle of this triangular space, is situated the saphenous opening, n., through which the sac of femoral hernia is protruded. In rare cases, the femoral artery is tied below the lower border of the sartorius muscle; under such circumstances, a space, varying from one inch to one inch and a half, and parallel to the oblique line, should be allowed for the breadth of the Sartorius, and the incision commenced immediately below this border, 6., still following the original line of its course. Besides these, there is another point of equal import- ance to the surgeon, in the consideration of the proper projections on the surface of the limb, viz., the apophysis named trochanter major. For it is this prominence that tubercle on the inner condyle of the femur. This line marks the direction of the femoral artery. 3. A third line, drawn from the spine of the pubis to the tubercle on the inner condyle of the femur. 4. A fourth line drawn from the 6pine of the ilium to the middle of line three; this line marks the upper border of the sartorius muscle, and is the direction for the incision in securing the artery in the upper third of its course. 5. The outline of the sartorius muscle. 6. The direction of the incision in operating upon the femoral artery, below the sartorius muscle, shewn by a dotted line. 7. A line drawn from the trochanter major to the spine of the ilium. 8. Another line drawn from the trochanter major to the crest of the ilium. 9. The internal saphenous vein. 10. The superficial epigastric and super- ficial circumflexa ilii veins, converging to open into it previously to its entrance into the saphenous opening. 11. The saphenous opening in the fascia lata. 12. The external cutaneous nerve. 13. The middle cutaneous nerves, branches of the anterior crural.