MUSCLES. 16 ANTERIOR FEMORAL GROUP. lip of the acetabulum. It is inserted by a broad and strong tendon into the upper border of the patella. It is more correct to consider the patella as a sesamoid bone, developed within the tendon of the rectus; and the liga- mentum patellae as the continuation of the tendon to its insertion into the spine of the tibia. The rectus must now be divided through its middle, and the two ends turned aside, to bring clearly into view the next muscles. The three next muscles are generally considered col- lectively under the name of triceps extensor cruris. Adopting this view, the muscle surrounds the whole of the femur, except the rough line (linea aspera) upon its posterior aspect. Its division into three parts is not well defined ; the fleshy mass upon each side being distin- guished by the names of vastus internus and externus, the middle portion by that of crureus. The Vastus externus, narrow below and broad above, arises from the outer border of the patella, and is inserted into the femur and outer side of the linea aspera, as high as the base of the trochanter major. The Vastus internus, broad below and narrow above, arises from the inner border of the patella, and is inserted into the femur and inner side of the linea aspera as high up as the trochanter minor. The Crureus (crus, the leg), arises from the upper border of the patella, and is inserted into the front aspect of the femur, as high as the anterior inter-trochanteric line. When the crureus is divided from its insertion, a small muscular fasciculus is often seen upon the lower part of the femur, which is inserted into the pouch of synovial membrane, that extends upwards from the knee-joint, behind the patella. This is named, from its situation, sub- crureus, and would seem to be intended to support the synovial membrane. Actions. — The tensor vagina femoris renders the fas- cia lata tense, and slightly inverts the limb. The sartorius flexes the leg upon the thigh, and, continuing to act, the thigh upon the pelvis, at the same time carrying the leg across that of the opposite side, into the position in which tailors sit ; hence its name. Taking its fixed point from below, it assists the extensor muscles in steadying the leg for the support of the trunk. The other four muscles