224 PHARYNX. find this ganglion. The sympathetic system will be found described as a whole in Chapter XI. Pharynx. The student should now proceed to examine the remainder of the muscles of the neck, together with the anatomy of the pharynx and larynx. For this purpose the following preparation must be made. The trachea and oesophagus are to be cut through at the lower part of the neck, and drawn upwards by dividing the loose cellular tissue which connects the pharynx to the vertebral column. The saw is then to be applied behind the styloid processes, and the base of the skull sawn through. The vessels and loose structures should be re- moved from the preparation, and the pharynx stuffed with tow or wool for the purpose of distending it, and rendering the muscles more easy of dissection. The Pharynx is a musculo-membranous sac, situated upon the vertebral column, and extending from the base of the skull to a point parallel with the cricoid cartilage, where it becomes constricted to form the oesophagus. The Muscles of the pharynx are, the Constrictor inferior, Constrictor medius, Constrictor superior, Stylo-pharyngeus, Palato-pharyngeus. The Constrictor inferior arises from the two upper rings of the trachea, from the cricoid, and the side of the thyroid cartilage. It is inserted into the tendinous raphe overlapping the middle constrictor. This muscle must be removed before the next can be examined. In dissecting the surface of the next muscle, the pha- ryngeal plexus will require to be removed. The Constrictor medius arises from the great cornu of the os hyoides, from the lesser cornu, and from the stylo-hyoidean ligament. It radiates from its origin upon the side of the pharynx, its lower fibres descending and being overlapped by the constrictor inferior, its upper fibres ascending so as to cover in the constrictor superior. It is inserted into the raphe and basilar process of the occipital bone. The upper portion of this muscle must be turned down, to bring the whole of the superior constrictor into view ; in so doing, the stylo-pharyngeus muscle will be seen passing beneath its upper border.