MEATUSES. 278 two superior belong to the ethmoid, the inferior is a separate bone. In the fresh fossae these are covered with the mucous membrane, and serve to increase its surface by their projection and by their convoluted form. The space intervening between the two superior spongy bones is the superior meatus; the space between the superior and middle bones is the middle meatus ; and that between the inferior and floor of the fossa is the inferior meatus. These Meatuses are passages which extend from before backwards, and it is in rushing through and amongst these, that the atmosphere deposits its odorant particles upon the mucous membrane. There are several openings into the nasal fossae: thus, in the superior meatus, are the openings of the sphenoidal and posterior ethmoidal cells; in the middle, the anterior ethmoidal cells, the frontal sinuses, and the antrum max- illare ; and, in the inferior meatus, the termination of the nasal duct. In the dried bone there are two addi- rional openings, the spheno-palatine and the anterior palatine foramen, the former being situated in the superior, and the latter in the inferior meatus. The Mucous membrane of the nasal fossae is called pituitary or Schneiderian.* The former name being de- rived from its secretion, the latter from Schneider, who was the first to shew that the secretion of the nose pro- ceeded from the mucous membrane, and not from the brain, as was formerly imagined. It is continuous with the general pulmono-digestive mucous membrane, and may be traced through the openings in the meatuses, into the sphenoidal and ethmoidal cells, into the antrum max- illare, through the nasal duct to the surface of the eye, where it is continuous with the conjunctiva, along the Eustachian tubes into the tympanum and mastoid cells, to which it forms the lining membrane, and through the posterior nares into the pharynx and mouth, and thence through the lungs and alimentary canal. Vessels and Nerves- — The arteries of the nasal fossae are the anterior and posterior ethmoidal, from the * Conrad Victor Schneider, professor of medicin at Wittenberg. Mis work, entitled De Catarrhis, &c., was published in 1661.