38 POSTERIOR FEMORAL REGION. The Great ischiatic nerve (Jiff. 4. 12., Jig. 6. 7.) is the largest in the body ; it is formed by the sacral plexus, or rather it is a prolongation of the plexus. At its exit from the great sacro-ischiatic foramen beneath the pyriformis, it measures three quarters of an inch in breadth. It descends through the middle of the space between the trochanter major and tuberosity of the ischium into the thigh. In its course it rests on the gemellus superior tendon of the obturator internus, gemellus inferior, and quadratus femoris muscles, and in the thigh upon the adductor magnus muscle: it is covered in by the three flexor muscles of the leg. While in the gluteal region, it gives off merely a few muscular branches. This nerve is sometimes formed of two portions, one of which pierces the pyriformis muscle. At other times, the two portions remain separate all the way down the thigh. The Internal pudic nerve [Jig.\. 14. Jig. 6. 5.), also a branch of the sacral plexus, follows the course and dis- tribution of the internal pudic artery, giving off filaments with each of its branches. Posterior Femoral Region. Carry an incision along the middle of the posterior aspect of the thigh, as far as the bend of the knee. Bound it in this situation by a transverse incision, and reflect the integument to either side. In the superficial fascia will be seen the two cutaneous branches of the lesser ischiatic nerve, and two or three cutaneous branches from the great ischiatic. Upon removing the superficial fascia, the deep fascia will be found to be extremely thin ; and, on turning it aside, we bring into view the three muscles of this region, the flexors of the leg — Biceps. Semi-tendinosus. Semi-membranosus. The Biceps Jlexor cruris (bi, double—caput,head) arises by two heads, one by a common tendon with the semi- tendinosus ; the other muscular, and much shorter, from the lower two thirds of the external border of the linea aspera. This muscle forms the outer ham-string, and is inserted by a strong tendon into the head of the fibula.