269 MEMBRANA DENTATA. N 3 The Arachnoid {Jig. 28.) is a continuation of the serous membrane of the brain. It encloses the cord very loosely, being connected to it only by long slender cellu- lar filaments ; passes off on either side with the spinal nerves, to which it forms a sheath; and is then reflected upon the dura mater, to constitute its serous surface. A connection exists in several situations between the arach- noid of the cord and that of the dura mater. The space between the arachnoid and the spinal cord is identical with that already described as existing between the same parts in the brain, the Sab-arctchnoidean space {Jig. 28. 4.). It is filled in both with a serous fluid, sufficient in quantity to expand the arachnoid, and fill completely the cavity of the theca vertebralis. The Sub-arcichnoidean Jluid keeps up a constant and gentle pressure upon the entire surface of the brain and spinal cord, and yields with the greatest facility to the various movements of the cord, giving to those delicate structures the* advantage of the principles so usefully applied by Dr. Arnott in the hydrostatic bed. The Pia mater {Jig. 28. 7. 7.) is the immediate invest- ment of the cord, and, like the other membranes, is con- tinuous with that of the brain. It is not, however, like the pia mater cerebri, a vascular membrane, but is dense and fibrous in its structure, and contains very few vessels. It invests the cord closely, and sends a duplicature into the sulcus longitudinalis anterior, and another, extremely delicate, into the sulcus longitudinalis posterior. It forms a sheath for each of the filaments of the nerves, and for the nerves themselves; and, inferiorly, at the conical termination of the cord, it is prolonged downwards, and forms a slender ligament, which descends through the centre of the cauda equina, and is attached to the dura \ mater lining the canal of the sacrum. I he Membrana dentata {Jig. 28. 6.) is a process of the pia mater sent off from either side of the cord through- out its entire length, and separating the anterior from the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. Between each of the nerves it forms a serration, which is attached to the dura mater, and unites the two layers of the arachnoid membrane at that point. The processes are about twenty in num jci at each side. I heir use is to maintain the