180 LINGUAL ARTERY. parallel, li., with the upper border of the os hyoides. 3d. Ascends, 12., to the under surface of the tongue ; and 4th. Runs forward in a serpentine direction to its tip, under the name of ranine artery, 13. Its course is thus divided into four parts, and the relations of each are to be studied separately, with a view to operations on the artery in any part of its course. Relations—The first of its course, 9., rests upon the great cornu of the os hyoides, and the origin of the middle constrictor muscle, 10., of the pharynx ; the second, li., is situated between the middle constrictor and hyo- glossus muscles, the latter separating it from the lingual nerve, 21. In the third part of its course, 12., it lies between the liyo-glossus and genio-hyo-glossus, 4., and in the fourth, 13. (ranine), rests upon the lingualis to the tip of the tongue. Its branches are,— (2.) Lingual Artery. — Branches. Hyoid, Dorsalis linguae, Sublingual. The Hyoid branch is distributed to the origins of the elevator muscles of the os hyoides. hyoides below, and inserted into the side of the tongue, where it mingles its fibres with those of the stylo-glossus muscle. 2. 3. A section of the lower jaw at the symphisis. 4. The genio-hyo-glossus muscle. 5. The genio-hyoideus muscle. 6. The cut edge of the mylo-hyoideus. 7. The common carotid artery, dividing into the external and internal carotid. 8. The trunk of the superior thyroid artery. 9. The lingual artery; the first, or oblique portion of its course, resting upon the great cornu of the os hyoides, and upon (10.) the middle constrictor muscle. 11. The second, or horizontal portion of the lingual artery; its course beneath the liyo-glossus muscle is marked by dotted lines. 12. The third, or perpendicular portion of the lingual artery. 13. Its termination, the ranine artery. 14. The trunk of the facial artery. 15. The three posterior branches of the external carotid artery; they are from below, upwards, the mastoid, occipital, and posterior auricular. 16. The trunk of the ascending pharyngeal artery. 17. The trunk of the transverse facial artery. 18. The two terminal branches of the external carotid, the internal maxillary and temporal. 19. The gustatory branch of the fifth nerve. * Its communication with the lingual nerve. 20. The glosso-pha- ryngeal nerve. 21. The lingual, or hypoglossal nerve. 22. Whar- ton’s duct. 23. The sublingual gland.