140 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. THIRD LAYER. The two first layers belong to the shoulder and arm : their origins and insertions, and the mode of dissecting them, have been described at pages 81. and 83. Third Layer. The Third layer consists of muscles which arise from the spinous processes of the vertebral column, and pass outwards. It is brought into view by dividing the levator anguli scapulae near its insertion, and reflecting the two rhomboid muscles upwards from their insertion into the scapula, and removing them altogether. The Serratus posticus superior arises from the spinous processes of the two last cervical and two upper dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted by four serrations into the pos- terior surface of the second, third, fourth, and fifth ribs. The Serratus posticus inferior arises from the spjnous processes of the two last dorsal and two upper lumbar vertebrae, and is inserted by four serrations into the four lower ribs. These two muscles are connected by a thin tendinous fascia, called the intervertebral aponeurosis. The serratus posticus superior must be removed from its origin and turned outwards, to bring into view the whole extent of the splenius muscle. The Splenius muscle is single at its origin, but divides soon after into two portions, which are destined to dis- tinct insertions. It arises from the spinous processes of ten vertebrae, the four lower cervical and six upper dorsal, and divides as it ascends the neck into the sple- nius capitis and colli. The Splenius capitis is inserted into the rough surface of the occipital bone between the two curved lines, and into the mastoid process. The Splenius colli is inserted into the transverse pro- cesses of the four upper cervical vertebra. The two serrati and two splenii must be removed by cutting them away from their origins and insertions to bring the fourtli layer into view. Fourth Layer. Three of these muscles, viz. sacro-lumbalis, longissimus dorsi, and spinalis dorsi, are associated under the name of erector spinse. They occupy the lumbar and dorsal