CEREBRO-SPINAL AXIS. —DEVELOPMENT. 241 amphibia appear to have a different disposition of these primitive ganglia. The first two have become fused into a single ganglion, and then follow only three pairs of symmetrical ganglia. But if the larger pair be unfolded after being hardened in alcohol, it will then be seen that the whole number of ganglia exists, but that four have become concealed by a thin covering that has spread across them. This condition of the brain carries us : upwards in the animal scale even to mammalia; e.g., in the dog or cat we find, first a single ganglion, the cerebellum, • then three pairs following each other in succession ; and if we unfold the middle pair, we shall be at once convinced • that it is indeed composed of two pairs of primitive ganglia i concealed by an additional development. Again it will be ■ observed, that the primitive ganglia of opposite sides, at ifirst separate and disjoined, become connected by means cof transverse fibres of communication (commissures, com- missurci,, a joining). The office of these commissures is t the association in function of the two symmetrical por- tions. Hence we arrive at the general and important tc:onclusion, that the brain among the lower animals con- s fists of primitive cords, primitive ganglia upon those cords, . ind commissures which connect the substances of the Adjoining ganglia, and associate their actions. Let us now urn to the Development of the Cerebrospinal Axis in Man. The earliest indication of the spinal cord in man ex- jibits a pair of minute longitudinal filaments placed side >y side. Upon these towards the anterior extremity five >airs of minute swellings are observed, not disposed in a t traight line as in fishes, but curved upon each other so as • o correspond with the direction of the future cranium. The posterior pair soon becomes cemented upon the f | niddle line, forming a single ganglion ; the second pair also || nite with each other ; the third and fourth pairs, at first I istinct, are speedily veiled by a lateral development, 1 -Inch arches backwards and conceals them ; the anterior I airs, at first very small, decrease in size and become Imost lost in the increased development of the preceding s* • BITS* We see here a chain of resemblances corresponding