200 LARYNGEAL NERVES. the internal carotid artery to the opening in the thyro- hyoidean membrane, through which it passes with the superior laryngeal artery, and is distributed to the mucous membrane of larynx, communicating on the arytenoid muscle, and behind the cricoid cartilage, with the recur- rent laryngeal nerve. Behind the internal carotid it gives off the external laryngeal branch, which sends a branch to the pharyngeal plexus, and then descends to supply the inferior constrictor and crico-thyroid muscles and thyroid gland, and communicates by two or three branches with the recurrent laryngeal, and sympathetic nerves. Mr. John Hilton, demonstrator of anatomy at Guy’s Hospital, who has made some able dissections of the nerves of the larynx, of which we refer the student to a masterly description in the 2d vol. of the Guy’s Hospital Reports, concludes that the superior laryngeal nerve is the nerve of sensation to the larynx, being distributed solely (with the exception of its external laryngeal branch) to the mucous membrane, cellular tissue, and glands. If this fact be taken in connection with the observations of Sir Astley Cooper, and the dissections of the origin of the nerve by Mr. Edward Cock, we shall perceive that, both in the ganglionic origin of the nerve, and in its dis- tribution, we have striking evidence of its sensitive func- tion. The recurrent, or superior laryngeal nerve, is the proper motor nerve, and is distributed to the muscles of the larynx. The Cardiac branches, 14., one or two in number, cross the lower part of the common carotid to com- municate with the cardiac branches of the sympathetic, for the supply of the heart. The Recurrent laryngeal, or inferior laryngeal nerve {fig- 19. 15.), curves around the subclavian artery on the right {fig. 17. 13.*), and the arch of the aorta on the left side {fig. 17.14.*). It ascends in the groove between the trachea and oesophagus, and piercing the lower fibres of the inferior constrictor muscle, enters the larynx close to the articulation of the inferior cornu of the thyroid with the cricoid cartilage. It is distributed to all the muscles of the larynx, with the exception of the crico- thyroid, and communicates with the superior laryngeal nerve. As it curves around the subclavian artery and