235 SINUSES OF THE BASE OF THE SKULL. the side of the sella turcica, receiving the ophthalmic veins anteriorly, and terminating posteriorly in the inferior I petrosal sinuses. In the outer wall of this sinus {jig. 20.) are situated the third, fourth, and ophthalmic nerves, and in the inner wall the internal carotid artery, sixth nerve, and branches of the carotid plexus. These parts are separated from the blood, of the sinus only by its lining membrane. The Inferior •petrosal sinuses are the continuations of the cavernous sinuses backwards along the lower border of the petrous bone to the foramen lacerum posterius, where they open with the lateral sinuses into the internal jugular veins. The remaining sinuses are communicating channels passing between the preceding ; thus, The Circular sinus is situated in the sella turcica, sur- rounding the pituitary gland, and communicates on either side with the cavernous sinus. The Superior petrosal sinus runs along the attached border of the tentorium, on the upper margin of the petrous bone, and establishes a communication between the cavernous and the lateral sinus at each side. The Transverse sinus (basilar, anterior occipital) passes transversely across the basilar process of the occipital bone, forming a communication between the two inferior petrosal sinuses. The sinuses of the dura mater communicate with the exterior of the skull by several large veins. On the summit of the skull a considerable vein opens into the superior longitudinal sinus, through the parietal foramen. Behind the ear a large vein opens into the lateral sinus, through the mastoid foramen; and, at the base of the skull, another communicates with the lateral sinus through i the posterior condyloid foramen. They communicate also very freely with the sinuses of the diploe. anatomists that the columns of blood, coming in different directions, compressed each other at this point. Herophilus was a great anatomist, and was well informed on many parts of the human structure: he lived about 500 years before Christ. J