IN THE FOETUS. 435 u 2 The bones of the face are each developed from a single centre, with the exception of the superior and inferior maxillary bones. The Superior maxillary bone has two centres ; one for the lateral portion, and one for the incisive * bone. The Inferior maxillary bone has two lateral centres, which join at- the symphisis. The Flat bones have many centres of ossification. Thus the sternum is developed from centres varying in number from six to fourteen. It consists of three pieces in the adult. The Scapula has six centres of development: one for the body; one for the coracoid process ; two for the acromion process; one for the posterior border of the bone ; and one for its inferior angle. The Os innominatum has eight centres : three prin- cipal, viz., one for the ilium ; one for the ischium ; and one for the pubis ; and five secondary, one in the cotyloid cavity, at the junction of the three principal portions ; one for the crest of the ilium; one for the tuberosity of the ischium ; one for the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium ; and one for the angle of the pubis : the two latter are often wanting. The Long bones have three principal centres of develop- ment : one for the shaft, and one for each extremity. The latter are the epiphyses of the long bones. The epi- physis corresponding with the course of the nutritious artery, has been shown by Mr. Stanley to be the first developed, as, for instance, the condyloid epiphysis in the ; femur. The processes upon the bone, as the trochanters and tuberosities, have likewise distinct centres, which are called apophyses. The Clavicle has two centres: one principal, for the whole length of the bone ; and a small one, which does not appear until about the sixteenth year, for the anterior part of the sternal extremity. The Humerus is developed from seven centres of ossi- fication : one for the shaft; one for the head of the bone ; * We possess, in our anatomical collection, a very remarkable spe- cimen of this bone in the human adult. It was obtained in the ossuary it Zug, in Switzerland.