KIDNEYS. 370 The Right spermatic vein {fig. 13. 16.) is formed by the union of the veins of the right spermatic cord. It follows the course of the right spermatic artery, and ter- minates in the inferior cava. The Renal veins {fig. 13. 17. 18.) return the venous blood from the kidneys; the left is longer than the right, on account of the position of the vena cava on the right side, and crosses the aorta to open into it. The sperma- tic vein of the left side terminates, at right angles, in the left renal vein : hence arises an impediment to the return of the blood, both on account of the greater length of the left than the right spermatic vein, and the direction of its entrance into the renal vein. As a consequence of this obstacle, varicocele occurs most frequently on the left side. The Hepatic veins are of very large size, and open into the cava while that vessel is situated within the liver. Kidneys. The Kidneys are situated in the lumbar regions, on each side of the vertebral column, and behind the peri- toneum. They are usually enclosed in a quantity of fat, and rest upon the anterior lamella of the aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle, which separates them from the quadratus lumborum, and upon the lower border of the diaphragm. They are surmounted by the renal capsules, two yellowish triangular and flattened bodies, which pro- ject inwards towards the vertebral column, and are closely connected with the semilunar ganglia, from which they receive a number of filaments. The renal capsules belong to the economy of the foetus, in which they are as large as the kidneys themselves. In the adult they consist of two lobes, and have an internal cavity, which contains a dark coloured fluid. The right kidney is somewhat lower than the left, being pressed downward by the liver; it is in relation in front with the descending portion of the duodenum. The concavity of the kidney is directed towards the vertebral column, and receives the vessels ; the convexity looks outwards towards the parietes. SxuucTunE. — Each kidney is invested by its proper