CONJUNCTIVA. 293 of defence to the sensitive surface of so delicate an organ as the eye. The Conjunctiva is the mucous membrane of the eye. It covers the whole of its anterior surface, and is then reflected upon the lids so as to form their internal layer. It*is very thin, and closely adherent where it covers the cornea, and no vessels can be traced into it. Upon the sclerotica it is thicker and less adherent, and to the inner surface of the lids is connected by loose cellular tissue. It is continuous with the general pulmono-digestive mucous membrane, and sympathises in its affections, as may be observed in various diseases. From the surface of the eye it may be traced through the lachrymal ducts into the lachrymal gland, along the edges of the lids ; it is continuous with the mucous lining of the Meibomian glands, and at the inner angle of the eye may be traced through the puncta lachrymalia into the lachrymal sac, and thence downwards through the nasal duct into the inferior meatus of the nose. The Caruncuia lachrymalis {Jig. 33. 3.) is the small reddish body which occupies the inner angle or canthus of the eye. In health it presents a bright pink tinge, in sickness it loses its colour and becomes pale. It con- sists in an assemblage of mucous follicles, and is the source of the whitish secretion which so constantly forms at the inner angle of the eye. It is frequently found studded with short hairs. Immediately to the outer side of the caruncuia, is a slight duplicature of the conjunctiva, called plica semi- lunaris, which is the rudiment of the third lid of animals, the membrana nictitans of birds. Vessels and nerves.— The palpebrae are supplied internally with arteries from the ophthalmic, and exter- nally fi om the facial and transverse facial. Their nerves are branches of the fifth and of the facial. Lachrymal Apparatus. The Lachrymal apparatus consists of the lachrymal gland and excretory ducts, the puncta lachrymalia and lachrymal sac. The Lachrymal gland {Jig. 33. 4.) is a small flattened bo y having two lobes, situated at the upper and outer o 3