DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 44 The Popliteal nerve (Jig. 5. ±.,Jig. 6.9.) runs through the middle of the popliteal space, from the division of the great ischiatic nerve to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, where it passes with the artery beneath the arch of the soleus, and becomes the postei'ior tibial nerve. It is superficial in the whole of its course, and lies externally to the vein and artery. Its branches are muscular or sural (Jig. 6.10.), which are distributed to the muscles of the calf; and the communi- cans poplitei, which unites with a similar branch, commu- nicans peronei, from the peroneal nerve, to form the external saphenous nerve, Jig. 5. 7.,,fig- 6. 16. The Peroneal nerve (Jig. 5. 6., Jig. 6. 8.) descends by the side of the tendon of the biceps to the head of the fibula, pierces the origin of the peroneus longus muscle, and divides into two branches, the anterior tibial, Jig. 6. 13., and musculo-cutaneous, 14. It gives off but one branch in its course, the communicans peronei, which unites with the communicans poplitei. Dissection of the Leg. The leg is naturally divided into three regions, anterior tibial, Jibular, and posterior tibial. Each region is com- posed of its appropriate muscles, vessels, and nerves. Those of the anterior tibial region may be thus arranged: Superficial to the fascia. Tibial recurrent artery, Peroneal cutaneous nerve, Internal saphenous vein, Internal saphenous nerve. Beneath the fascia. Tibialis anticus, Extensor longus digitorum, Peroneus tertius, Extensor proprius pollicis, Anterior tibial artery, Anterior tibial nerve. The student will find it convenient, before commencing the dissec- tion of the leg, to separate the limb from the rest of the body, by dividing the muscles, and sawing across the femur at about its middle. This step is better than disarticulating at the hip-joint, as it gives him an opportunity, at an after period, of studying the ligaments of the hip. The dissection of the anterior tibial region is to be commenced by carrying an incision along the middle of the leg, midway between the tibia and the fibula, from the knee to the ankle, and bounding it inferiorly by a transverse incision, extending from one malleolus to