395 s 6 VISCERA OF THE FEMALE PELVIS. When the tunica vaginalis is closed at the upper point only, and the hernial sac descends behind it, we have a case of Encysted hernia (Jig. 42. page 335.). If the hernial sac were to descend into the tunica vaginalis, instead of behind it, the serous membrane rising all around it, that also would be a form of encysted hernia. When the tunica vaginalis is closed from point to point only, fluid may collect in the unobliterated portions, and form one or more sacs. This is the Hydrocele of the cord. If the fluid collect in the tunica vaginalis itself, the case is common Hydrocele. If blood in place of serous fluid occupy the tunica vaginalis, the case is one of Hema- tocele. If the veins of the cord be enlarged and tortuous, or varicose, the case is one of Varicocele, or spermatocele. Swelled testicle is often called Hernia humoralis ; and inguinal hernia, descending into the scrotum, forms Scrotal hernia. Female Pelvis and Organs of Generation. The contents of the female pelvis are the bladder, vagina, uterus, with its appendages, and rectum. The Bladder is in relation with the pubis in front, and with the vagina beneath. Its form corresponds with that of the pelvis, being broad from side to side, and often bulging more on one side than on the other. This is particularly evident after frequent parturition. The Coats of the bladder are the same as those of the male. The Muscular coat has its two layers, the external and the internal; the longitudinal fibres of the former are attached to a ring of thickened submucous tissue, which surrounds the commencement of the urethra, and is con- nected, like the prostate gland in the male, to the inner surface of the os pubis by means of the tendons of the bladder. I his enlargement, Mr. Guthrie conceives, to be analogous to the prostate in the male ; and he de- scribes it as the prostate gland of the female. An opposite opinion, viz. that there is no prostate gland in the female, is entertained by the greater number of anatomists.