426 CARDIAC NERVES. communicates with the sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves; and one which accompanies the vertebral artery along the vertebral canal, forming the vertebral plexus. This plexus sends filaments to all the branches given off by the artery, and communicates in the skull with the filaments of the carotid plexus accompanying the branches of the internal carotid artery. The Internal branch, 8., is the inferior cardiac nerve, nervus cardiacus minor. Cardiac nerves.*— The Superior cardiac nerve, (Jiff- 50. 6.) (nervus superjicialis cordis) arises from the lower part of the superior cervical ganglion; it then descends the neck behind the common carotid artery, and, parallel with the trachea, crosses the inferior thyroid artery, and accompanying the recurrent laryngeal nerve for a short distance, passes behind the arteria innominate to the concavity of the arch of the aorta, where it joins the cardiac ganglion. In its course it receives branches from the pneumogas- tric nerve, and sends filaments to the thyroid gland and trachea. The Middle cardiac nerve, 7., (nervus cardiacus magnus) proceeds from the middle cardiac ganglion, or, in its absence, from the cord of communication between the superior and inferior. It is the largest of the three nerves, and lies nearly parallel with the recurrent laryngeal. At the root of the neck, it divides into several branches, which pass some before and some behind the subclavian artery; it communicates with the superior and inferior cardiac, and with the pneumogastric and recurrent nerves, and descends to the bifurcation of the trachea, to the great cardiac plexus. The Inferior cardiac nerve (8.) (nervus cardiacus minor) arises from the inferior cervical ganglion, communicates freely with the recurrent laryngeal and middle cardiac nerves, and descends to the front of the trachea to join the great cardiac plexus. The Cardiac ganglion is a ganglionic enlargement of * There is no constancy with regard to the origin and course of these nerves ; therefore the student must not be disappointed in find- ing the description in discord with his dissection.