LIGATURE OF THE SUBCLAVIAN. 175 which, though trifling in itself, might be the instant means of saving, if not of restoring, life. If called unexpectedly to a patient labour- ing under symptoms of threatened suffocation, he would not hesitate to perform it with his pen-knife; therefore he must familiarise him- self with its steps. An incision is to be made to the extent of an inch and a half along the middle line of the neck, just above the sternum. This may divide the integument and superficial fascia. The next incision takes him to the space between the two sterno-thyroid muscles: these are to be separated, an opening made into the trachea, and a canula, or writing quill, inserted into it. This is the only part of the operation that requires care; for some large veins, the inferior thyroid, and occa- sionally an inferior thyroid artery from the innominata, lie imme- diately upon the trachea. The author has several specimens of this variety in his collection ; and the proportion in which he has observed them is about 5 in 100. The bleeding resulting from the wound of any of these vessels might be fatal from pouring into the trachea. In the case of the artery it would be necessary to tie the divided extremities. A little higher in the neck, immediately below the thyroid cartilage, Laryngotomy is performed. The structures are to be divided as in the previous operation, and the point of a bistoury introduced into the larynx through the crico-thyroid membrane, in the space left by the divergence of the two crico-thyroid muscles. A small branch of communication between the two superior thyroid arteries sometimes crosses this ligament, the division of which might give rise to dis- agreeable haemorrhage. In the subclavian triangle is performed the operation for tying the Subclavian artery in the only * practicable situation above the clavicle, viz. in the third part of its course, where it issues from between the two scaleni muscles, and rests on the first rib. An incision is made along the upper border of the clavicle, from the sternal portion of the sterno-mastoid muscle to the edge of the trapezius. This should divide the integument, superficial fascia, pla- tysma, and deep fascia ; and more or less of the clavicular portion of the sterno-mastoid muscle, according to its breadth or the depth of the artery. Then lay aside the knife, introduce a finger into the wound behind the vein, and feel for the tubercle on the first rib : immediately behind it is the cylinder of the artery, which may be recognised by its roundness and elasticity, and by its pulsation * We lately witnessed an operation for subclavian aneurism, above the clavicle, performed by Mr. Liston, in the North London Hos- pital, in which the subclavian artery was tied at its origin from the innominata. I he common carotid was also tied near to its origin. The details of the case will be found in the second volume of the Lancet for 1837-38, page 668. We recommend the student to examine the artery at this point in his dissection, and study its important relations, in order to understand fully the knowledge of anatomy and dexterity necessary to accomplish such an operation. I 4<