FOURTH NERVE. THIRD NERVE. 213 the three. It inclines slightly outwards to the upper border of the external rectus muscle, along which it runs to the lachrymal gland and upper eyelid, to which it is distributed. A small branch pierces the malar bone, and communicates with the facial nerve. The Nasal nei've {Jig. 21. 18.) passes forwards between the two heads of the external rectus muscle, crosses the optic nerve in company with the ophthalmic artery, and enters, the anterior ethmoidal foramen (Jig. 22. 8.) imme- diately above the internal rectus. It then traverses the upper part of the ethmoid bone to the cribriform plate, and passes downwards through the most anterior of its foramina into the nose, where it divides into two branches, one supplying the mucous membrane, near the anterior openings of the nares ; the other, passing out between the fibro-cartilages, is distributed on the integument at the extremity of the nose. Branches. — Within the orbit it gives off three branches. A ganglionic branch (Jig. 22. 7.) (given or received) from the superior angle of the ciliary ganglion. One or two ciliarg filaments (Jig. 21. 20.) which leave the nerve as it crosses the optic nerve. They pierce the sclerotic, and pass between that tunic and the choroid to the iris. The Infra-trochlear (Jig. 22. 9.) is given off just as the nerve is about to enter the anterior ethmoidal foramen. It passes along the superior border of the internal rectus to the inner angle of the eye, where it is distributed. The Fourth nerve (Jig. 21. 4.) (patheticus), the smallest of the cerebral nerves, arises from the valve of Vieussens, and enters the cavernous sinus through a canal in the tentorium, close to the opening which trans- mits the fifth nerve. It is at first placed below the third nerve, but ascends above it as it passes forwards and crosses the levator palpebrae to be distributed on the orbital surface of the superior oblique muscle. 1 he Ihird nerve (Jig.21.3.) (motor oculi) arises from the crus cerebri, and enters the cavernous sinus by an open- ing in the dura mater, close to the posterior clinoid process. It then descends to the space between the two heads of the external rectus, and, entering the orbit, divides into