OMPHALO-MESENTERIC VESSELS. 443 u 6 The Ductus arteriosus is another peculiarity of the foetus connected with the heart: it is a communication between the pulmonary artery and the aorta. It dege- nerates into a fibrous cord after birth, from the double cause of a diversion in the current of the blood towards the lungs, and from the pressure of the left bronchus, caused by its distension with air. Viscera of the Abdomen. At an early period of uterine life, and sometimes at the period of birth, as occurred to ourselves in an anen- cephalous foetus, two minute fibrous threads may be seen passing from the umbilicus to the mesenteiy. These are the remains of the omphalo-mesenteric vessels. The Omphalo-mesenteric are the first developed vessels of the germ: they ramify upon the vesicula umbilicalis, or yolk-bag, and supply the newly-formed alimentary canal of the embryo. From them, as from a centre, the general circulating system is produced. After the estab- lishment of the placental circulation, they cease to carry blood, and dwindle to the size of mere threads, which may be easily demonstrated in the early periods of uterine life; but are completely removed, except under peculiar circumstances, at a later period. The Appendix vermiformis cceci is long and of large size, and is continued directly from the central part of the cul-de-sac of the ccecum, of which it appears to be a constricted continuation. This is the character of the appendix cceci in the higher quadrumana. The large intestines are filled with a dark green viscous secretion, called meconium (//.-fiKaiv, poppy), from its re- semblance to the inspissated juice of the poppy. The Liver is the first formed organ in the embryo. It is developed from the alimentary canal, and, at about the third week, fills the whole abdomen, and is one half the weight of the entire embryo. At the fourth month the liver is of immense size in proportion to the bulk of the foetus. At birth it is of very large size, and occupies the whole upper part of the abdomen. The left lobe is as large as the right, and the falciform ligament corresponds with the middle line of the body. The liver diminishes