406 MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM. pairs of muscles, and, between them, the superficial perineal vessels and nerves. To see the muscles clearly, the vessels and nerves on one side had better be dissected away with the fat and cellular tissue. The Muscles of the genital region of the perineum, are the Accelerators urinae, Erectores penis, Transversi perinei. The Acceleratores urinae arise from a tendinous point in the centre of the perineum and from the raphe. From these origins the fibres diverge like the plumes of a pen; the inferior fibres are inserted into the ramus of the pubis and ischium ; the middle completely encircle the corpus spongiosum, and meet upon its upper side ; and the anterior spread out upon the corpus cavernosum on each side, into which they are inserted. The insertions of these muscles may be seen by care- fully raising one muscle from the corpus spongiosum and tracing its fibres. The Erector penis arises from the ramus and tuberosity of the ischium, and is inserted into the corpus cavernosum on each side. The Transversusperinei arises from the tuberosity of the ischium on each side, and is inserted into the central tendinous point of the perineum. The Anal portion of the perineum must now be examined. When the superficial fascia is dissected off, a thin layer of muscular fibres will be observed, surrounding the anus like an ellipse: this is the external sphincter ani. It is attached anteriorly to the tendinous point of the perineum, and posteriorly to the point of the coccyx. If this muscle be carefully removed, the edge of a flat band of muscular fibres will be found embracing the lower ex- tremity of the rectum : this is the sphincter ani intemus. Surrounding the anus is a quantity of loose cellular tissue, containing adipose matter and some small arterial branches,—the external hemorrhoidal: this is the seat of the burrowing sinuses which often occur in this region. When the fat is dissected away, the fibres of the levator ani will be seen converging from the circumference of the