MUSCLES OF THE FACE. 149 H 3 The muscles belonging to each of these groups may be thus arranged : — 1. Cranial group. Occipito-frontalis. 2. Orbital group. Orbicularis palpebrarum, Corrugator supercilii, Tensor tarsi. 3. Nasal group. Pyramidalis nasi, Compressor narium. 4. Superior labial group. (* Orbicularis oris), Levator labii superiors alaeque nasi, Levator labii superioris proprius, Levator anguli oris, Zigomaticus major, Zigomaticus minor, Depressor labii superioris alaeque nasi. 5. Inferior labial group. (* Orbicularis oris), Depressor labii inferioris, Depressor anguli oris, Levator labii inferioris. 6. Maxillary group. Masseter, Temporalis, Buccinator, Pterygoideus externus, Pterygoideus internus, 7. Auricular group. Attollens aurem, Attrahens aurem, Retrahens aurem. The occipito-frontalis is to be dissected by making a longitudinal incision along the vertex of the head from the tubercle on the occipital bone to the root of the nose, and a second incision along the forehead and around the side of the head to join the two extremities of the preceding. Dissect the integument and superficial fascia carefully outwards, beginning at the anterior angle of the flap, where the mus- cular fibres are thickest, and remove it altogether. This dissection requires care, for the muscle is very thin, and without attention would be raised with the integument. There is no deep fascia on the face and head, nor is it required, for here the muscles are closely applied against the bones upon which they depend for support, whilst in the extremities the support is derived from the dense layer of fascia by which they are invested, and which forms for each a distinct sheath. The attachments of the Occipito-frontalis are expressed in its name. It arises from the rough surface immediately above the superior curved line of the occipital bone, being separated from its fellow by a considerable inter- * The orbicidaris, from encircling the mouth, belongs necessarily to both the superior and inferior labial regions ; therefore to prevent misconceptions we have enclosed it in both within brackets.