REMARKS. 143 SIXTH LAYER. The Obliquus superior arises from the extremity of the transverse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the rough surface of the occipital bone, between the curved lines. Sixth Layer. The semi-spinales muscles must both be removed to obtain a good view of the multifidus spinae which lies beneath them, and fills up the concavity between the spinous and transverse processes, the whole length of the vertebral column. The Multifidus sphice consists of a great number of fleshy fasciculi, extending between the transverse and spinous processes of the vertebrae, from the sacrum to the axis. Each fasciculus arises from a transverse process, and is inserted into the spinous process of the first or second vertebra above. The Levatores costarum arise from the transverse pro- cesses of the dorsal vertebrae, and are inserted into the rough surface between the tubercle and angle of the rib below them. The Supra-spinales are little fleshy bands lying on the spinous processes of the vertebrae in the cervical region. The Inter-spinales are a succession of little pairs of muscles, lying between the bifid tubercles of the spinous processes of the cervical vertebrae. The Liter-transversales are also arranged in pairs, and pass between the bifid tubercles of the transverse pro- cesses of the cervical vertebrae. They are sometimes found in the lumbar region. With regard to the origin and insertion of the muscles of the back, the student should be informed that no regu- larity attends their attachments. At the best a know- ledge of their exact connections, even were it possible to retain, would be but a barren information, if not absolutely injurious, as tending to exclude more valuable learning. We have therefore endeavoured to arrange a plan, by which they may be more easily recollected, by placing them in a tabular form, that the student may see, at a single glance, the origin and insertion of each, and com- pare the natural grouping and similarity of attachments of the various layers. In this manner also their actions will be better comprehended, and learnt with greater facility.