70 UPPER EXTREMITY ARTERIES. ulna is reserved as the especial agent in the motions of the elbow. Besides pronation and supination, the wrist possesses powerful flexion and extension, and to this office are assigned the next muscles, Jiexores and extensores carpi. The fingers are simply supplied for all their numerous movements of flexion and extension, by three flexors situated in the fore-arm, and six extensors; one flexor and three extensors being intended for the especial use of the thumb. The remaining muscle, the palmar is longus, is an extensor of the palmar fascia, which provides by its strength and elasticity for a powerful resistance to shocks received upon the surface of the hand. The muscles of the hand are flexors, abductors, and adductors. The short flexors of the thumb and little finger are necessary to the strength of grip so characteristic of the human hand. All the remaining muscles are abductors and adductors (see fig. 10.), with the exception of the palmaris brevis, which contracts the integument on the side of the hand, and the lumbricales, which are accessory in their actions to the deep flexor. The abductor and adductor of the thumb are known by those names; the analogous muscles of the index finger are the first dorsal and first palmar interossei; of the middle finger the two next dorsal interossei; of the ring finger the fourth dorsal and second palmar; and of the little finger the abductor minimi digiti and third palmar interosseus. These move- ments of abduction and adduction are highly valuable in the grasp of large or irregular bodies, or in the contraction of the bulk of the hand in various important surgical manipulations. The main artery for the supply of the upper extremity commences within the thorax, and, arching over its brim, passes beneath the clavicle ; hence it is named subclavian. On quitting the side of the chest, it is received into the space which intervenes between the scapula and ribs, and acquires the name of that space axillary. It then runs along the arm to the bend of the elbow, under the name of brachial. Now it is an established principle in the distribution of arteries, that they always select the most protected situations for their course. Thus they are constantly placed on the inner side of the limb, and studiously avoid the convexities of joints, where they