appendix. 480 by the external carotid ; the submaxillary by the facial; and the sub- lingual by the sublingual branch of the lingual artery. The Nerves• of the parotid gland are derived from the auricular branch of the inferior maxillary nerve; from the auricularis magnus, and from the nervi molles of the external carotid artery. The°sub- maxillary gland is supplied by the branches of the submaxillary gang- lion, and by filaments from the mylo-hyoidean nerve; and the sublingual, from the gustatory nerve. Iliac Arteries. The abdominal aorta divides upon the fourth lumbar vertebra, into the two common iliac arteries. The Common iliac arteries, diverge at an acute angle, and divide opposite the sacro-iliac symphisis into, the internal iliac and external iliac. The right common iliac is rather longer than the left, and forms a more obtuse angle with the termination of the aorta. The average length of the common iliac arteries is about two inches and a half. The Relations of the two arteries is different. The Right common iliac is in relation, in front, with the peritoneum, and is crossed near its bifurcation by the ureter and spermatic vessels and nerves. Behind, it crosses the left common iliac vein, and rests upon its own common iliac vein. The Left common iliac is in relation, in front, with the peritoneum, and is crossed by the inferior mesenteric artery, and near its bifurca- tion by the ureter and by the spermatic vessels and nerves. Behind, it rests upon the left common iliac vein. The Internal iliac artery is described at page 386. The External iliac artery passes obliquely along the brim of the pelvis, from opposite the sacro-iliac symphisis to the femoral arch, where it becomes the femoral artery. Relations. — It is covered by the peritoneum, and is in relation in Jront with the termination of the ileum on the right side, and with the sigmoid flexure of the colon on the left. It is crossed on both sides by the ureter; and near its termination by the genito-crural nerve. Externally, it lies along the inner border of the psoas magnus, being separated from it by the iliac fascia. Posteriorly, it is in relation with the external iliac vein, which lies to its inner side near the femoral arch. Branches. —The branches of the external iliac artery are, the Epigastric, Circumflexa ilii. The Epigastric artery arises from the external iliac near to Poupart’s ligament, and passing forwards between the peritoneum and transver- salis fascia, ascends obliquely to the border of the sheath of the rectus. It enters the sheath near to its lower third, and passing upwards behind the rectus muscle, inosculates near the ensiform cartilage with the superior epigastric branches of the internal mammary artery. It lies internally to the internal abdominal ring, and is crossed near to its origin by the vas deferens in the male, and by the round ligament in the female.