212 OPHTHALMIC NERVE.— BRANCHES. from the Casserian ganglion, beneath the dura mater, and passes forwards through the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, lying externally to the other nerves, and divides into its three branches. Previously to its division, it gives off a small recurrent nerve* *, that passes backwards between the two layers of tentorium, as far as the lateral sinus. The Branches of the ophthalmic nerve are, the Frontal, Lachrymal, Nasal. The Frontal nerve {Jiff. 21. 16.) mounts above the levator palpebrae, and runs forwards, resting upon that muscle to the supra-orbital foramen, through which it escapes upon the forehead, and supplies the integument of that region. It gives off one small branch, the supra-trochlear {Jig. 22. 4.), which passes inwards above the pulley of the superior oblique muscle, and is distributed to the integu- ment at the inner angle of the eye and root of the nose. The Lachrymal nerve f {Jig. 21. 17.) is the smallest of carotid artery. 25. The corpus olivare. The arrow at 3. marks the relative situation of the four nerves of the orbit, as they enter the cavernous sinus. The third is the highest, then the fourth, next the ophthalmic division of the fifth, and then the sixth. The arrow at 6. marks the relation of the six nerves as they enter the sphenoidal fissure ; — the three superior, fourth, frontal, and lachrymal enter the orbit above the origin of the levator palpebrae ; — the three inferior, nasal, third, and sixth, pass between the two heads of the external rectus. * This recurrent nerve to the dura mater is sometimes a branch of the fourth nerve, of which distribution the author has a preparation now before him. Arnold of Heidelberg, an authority of great weight, assigns it solely to the ophthalmic, and has displayed its dis- tribution in a beautifully dissected preparation which the author has also attentively examined. It was from this preparation that his beautiful plate was drawn. •f- Mr. Swan, in his dissections of the nerves, has found the lachrymal ■nerve to be formed by a branch from the ophthalmic and one from the fourth nerve; and he describes this mode of formation as its normal origin. We have sometimes seen the lachrymal nerve arising in this manner, but more frequently proceeding directly from the ophthalmic, without any communication with the fourth nerve.