392 STRUCTURE OF THE TESTICLE. surface of the tunic to which they are firmly attached. For a knowledge of the use of this arrangement, as of many other very important structures in the body, ana- tomists are indebted to Sir Astley Cooper, who has shown that this simple disposition is beautifully adapted to the purpose of preventing the compression of the substance of the testicle : and, truly, we know of no structure in the animal economy that evinces more striking evidence of design than does this. In the section of the mediastinum testis, two groups of minute foramina will be observed, one near the external surface of the mediastinum, consisting of divided arteries and veins ; the other near to its inner edge, — of the di- vided tubes of the rete testis. Upon the inner surface of the tunica albuginea, is the tunica vasculosa testis {Jig. 46. 4.), the nutrient membrane of the testicle. It sends vascular processes inwards be- tween the lobules. Sir Astley Cooper has compared the tunica albuginea to the dura mater, and the tunica vas- culosa to the pia mater of the brain. The Substance of the testis is composed of minute tubes, (tubuli seminiferi) very much convoluted and arranged in lobules {Jig- 46. 5.), {lobuli testis). The apices of the lobules are directed towards the mediastinum, and ter- minate in small, straight ducts called vasa recta, 6. The vasa recta form a net-work of minute tubes, running from below upwards within the substance of the mediastinum, which is called the rete testis, 7. The ducts forming the rete, quit the testis at its upper and posterior part under the name of vasa ejferentia, 9.9., which are eight or ten in number, and the vasa efferentia become convoluted into cones, called coni vasculosi, 10. The convolutions of the vasa efferentia, external to the testicle, constitute the epididymis. The upper end of the epididymis is of large size, from the great assemblage of convoluted tubes in the coni vasculosi; hence it is named globus major, 10. The middle portion or body of the epididymis, 11., is formed by the convolutions of a single tube, and the lower portion, or globus minor, 12., consists of the convolutions of the vas deferens, previously to commencing its ascending course. The convolutions of these tubes in the epididymis