Wilson’s and guthrie’s muscles. 411 T 2 The Compressor urethrae * muscle, fig. 48. [Wilson’s and Guthrie’s muscles], consists of two portions; one of which is transverse in its direction, and passes inwards to embrace the membranous urethra; the other is peipen- dicular, and descends from the pubis. The transverse portion, discovered by Mr. Guthrie, arises, by a narrow tendinous point, from the upper part of the ramus of the ischium, on each side, and divides into two fasciculi, 8. 9., which pass inwards and slightly upwards, and embrace the membranous portion of the urethra and Cowper’s glands. As they pass towards the urethra, they spread out and become fan-shaped, and are inserted into a ten- dinous raphe upon the upper and lower surfaces of the urethra, extending from the apex of the prostate gland, to which they are attached posteriorly, to the bulbous portion of the urethra, with which they are connected in front. When seen from above, these portions resemble two fans, connected by their expanded border along the middle line of the membranous urethra, from the prostate to the bulbous portion of the urethra. The same appear- ance is obtained by viewing them from below. The Perpendicxdar portion {fig. 48. 10.), described by Mr. Wilson, arises by two tendinous points from the inner surface of the arch of the pubis, on each side of, and close to the symphisis. The tendinous origins soon be- come muscular, and descend perpendicularly to be in- serted into the upper fasciculus of the transverse portion of the muscle ; so that it is not a distinct muscle sur- rounding the membranous portion of the urethra, and 5supporting it as in a sling, as was described by Mr. I Wilson, but merely an upper origin of the more important muscle discovered by Mr. Guthrie. The compressor urethrae may be considered either as I :wo symmetrical muscles meeting at the raphe, or as a [ single muscle: we have adopted the latter course in the n 3. 1 lie artery of the bull). 14. The artery of the corpus cavernosum. 1 5. The arteria dorsalis penis. * For the opportunity of giving the description of this muscle, we re indebted to the liberality and courtesy of Mr. Guthrie, and also | > Mr. Charles Guthrie, who removed the preparation from its bottle lat we might examine it thoroughly.