SIXTH NERVE CILIARY GANGLION. 214 two branches, a superior and an inferior branch : it also communicates with the ciliary ganglion by means of a short trunk. The Superior branch, 7., mounts above the optic nerve to supply the superior rectus, levator palpebrse, and internal rectus. The Inferior branch runs forwards upon the inferior rectus muscle, and is distributed to it and the inferior oblique. The Ganglionic branch, 8., short and thick, passes to the inferior angle of the ciliary ganglion. The Sixth nerve (fig. 21. 6.) (abducens) arises from the upper part of the corpus pyramidale. It pierces the dura mater on the basilar process of the sphenoid bone, and enters the cavernous sinus behind the ophthalmic nerve, by which it is concealed in its whole course. Passing between the two heads of the external rectus muscle, it soon enters its substance, and is distributed to that muscle. It is the only nerve situated in the inner wall of the cavernous sinus. Branches. — The two ascending branches of the caro- tid plexus pass upwards by the side of the internal carotid artery, and communicate with this nerve in the cavernous sinus. See page 203. The Ciliary ganglion (fig. 21. 22.) (lenticular) is a small square-shaped ganglion, situated close to the outer side of the optic nerve. It receives branches at its two posterior angles, from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic and inferior branch of the third nerve. Branches. — From its anterior border it gives off eight or nine filaments, which arrange themselves into two sets: a superior set pierce the sclerotic slightly above the entrance of the optic nerve, and an inferior set below it. A posterior filament is described by Arnold as passing backwards from the ganglion to the cavernous sinus, and following the course of the carotid artery to its plexus. Vessels of the Orbit. The Ophthalmic artery is a branch of the internal carotid : it enters the orbit through the foramen opticum, immediately to the outer side of the optic nerve. It