PAPILLA OF THE TONGUE. 307 fifteen to twenty in number. They are situated on the dorsum of the tongue near its root, and form a row upon each side, which meets its fellow at the middle line, like the two branches of the letter A. They resemble cones attached by the apex to the bottom of a cup-shaped depression : hence they are also named papillae calyeiformes. This cup-shaped cavity forms a kind of fossa around the papillae, hence their name circumvallatae. At the meeting of the two rows of these papillae upon the middle of the root of the tongue, is a deep mucous follicle called foramen ccecum. The Papillae conicce and Jiliformes cover the whole surface of the tongue in front of the circumvallatae, but are most abundant upon its tip. They are conical and filiform in shape, and have their points directed back- wards. The Papillae fung iformes are irregularly dispersed over the dorsum of the tongue, and are easily recognised amongst the other papillae by their rounded heads and larger size. Behind the papillae circumvallatae, at the root of the tongue, are a number of mucous glands, which open upon the surface. They have been improperly described as papillae by some authors. The papillae are covered with cuticle, which forms minute sheaths around them. The cuticular sheaths become enormously enlarged and lengthened in some fevers. Ur. Henle*, of Berlin, has recently shown the cuticular covering, or epithelium, to be formed of irre- gularly quadrilateral scales, having a nucleus in the centre of each. Vessels and nerves. — The tongue is abundantly supplied with blood by the lingual arteries. The Nerves are three in number, and of large size — 1. The gustatory branch of the fifth, which is distributed to the papillae, and is the nerve of common sensation. j-i Sy^holaead Anatomiam Villorum Intestinalium, imprimis eorum Epitheln, &c. by Dr. J. Henle, Berlin, 1837. The author had an oppor unity o comparing his own personal observations upon the crease secretion of cuticle around the papillae of the mucous mem- ™ s°me d‘f **es> with those of Dr. Henle, during his late visit with Professor Muller in London.