kiernan’s researches. 362 “ The Lobular arteries are exceedingly minute and few in number: they are the nutrient vessels of the lobules, and, probably, terminate in the plexuses formed by the portal vein.” “ The Hepatic Veins are contained in canals, which may be called the hepatic venous canals;" they commence in the interior of each lobule, by the intra-lobular vein. The intra-lobular vein,Jig. 44. 3. pierces the base of each lobule, 5., to enter the sublobular vein, 1.; and the union of the sub-lobular veins forms the large trunks of the hepatic veins, which terminate in the inferior cava. The intra-lobular veins correspond therefore to the inter-lobular branches of the portal vein, duct, and artery; but as the former open directly into the sub- lobular veins, it follows that the hepatic veins have nothing analogous to the vaginal branches and plexuses of the vessels contained in the portal canals; “ and as Glisson’s capsule is composed of the vaginal vessels ramifying in cellular tissue, we consequently find nothing similar to this capsule around the hepatic veins. ” The hepatic veins are, therefore, closely adherent to the surface of the lobules. The Intra-lobular veins {Jig. 44. 3. 3.), are formed by the converging branches from the lobular-venous plexus; they occupy the centre of each lobule, and pass through its base to terminate in the sublobular veins. They have no communication with the branches of the ar- tery, and “ their only office is to convey the blood from the lobular venous plexus.” The Sublobular veins {Jig. 44. 1.), are the branches which unite to * Fig. 44. The distribution of the hepatic veins, according to Mr. Kiernan. From Mr. Kiernan’s paper in the Philosophical Trans- actions for 1833. No. 1. A section of a sublobular vein. 2. Longitudinal sections of the lobules, presenting a foliated appearance. 3. 3. Intra-lobular veins. 4. “ The bases of other lobules seen through the coats of the vein, and forming the canal in which the vein is contained. 5. Tht openings of intra-lobular veins, which issue from the centre of the base of each lobule. 6. The interlobular fissures separating the bases of the lobules. Fig. 44.* ^