124 RIGHT VENTRICLE. muscles to the valves. A number of these tendinous cords converge to a single muscular attachment. The tricuspid valves prevent the regurgitation of the blood into the auricle during the contraction of the ventricle, and they are prevented from being themselves driven back by the chordae tendineae and their muscular attach- ments. This connection of the muscular columns of the heart to the valves, has caused their division into active and passive. The Active valves are the tricuspid and mitral; the Passive the mere folds of lining membrane, viz. the semi- lunar, Eustachian, and coronary. Mr. T. W. King, of Guy’s Hospital, has made the tri- cuspid valves a subject of special investigation, and has recorded his observations in a very interesting paper * in the Guy’s Hospital reports. The valves consist, according to Mr. King, of curtains, cords, and columns. The anterior valve, or curtain, is the largest, and is so placed as to prevent the filling of the pulmonary artery during the distension of the ventricle. The right valve, or curtain, is of smaller size, and is situated upon the right side of the auriculo-ventricular opening. The third valve, or “fixed curtain,” is connected by its cords to the septum ventriculorum. The cords (chordae tendineae) of the an- terior curtain are attached, principally, to a long column (columna carnea), which is connected with the “right or thin and yielding wall of the ventricle. From the lower part of this column a transverse muscular band, the “ long moderator band,” is stretched to the septum ven- triculorum or “solid wall” of the ventricle. The right curtain is connected, by means of its cords, partly with the long column, and partly with its own proper column, the second column, which is also attached to the “yielding wall” of the ventricle. A third and smaller column is generally connected with the right curtain. The “fixed curtain ” is named from its attachment to the “ solid wall” of the ventricle, by means of cords only, without fleshy columns. * •• Essay on the Safety Valve Function in the Right Ventricle of the Human Heart,” by T. W. King. Guy’s Hospital Reports, vol. 2.