386 INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. The Arteries and Nerves of the pelvis should now be dissected. This is easily done by taking the trunk of the internal iliac as a guide to its branches. The Nerves forming the sacral plexus may be traced from the anterior sacral foramina. The Internal iliac artery, as soon as it enters the pelvis, divides into two trunks, an anterior and posterior; the anterior division has connected with it the remains of the umbilical artery, and then divides into the ischiatic and internal pudic arteries ; the posterior division gives off the smaller pelvic branches, and passing out of the pelvis becomes the gluteal artery. The branches may be thus arranged. Anterior Trunk. Umbilical, Ischiatic, Internal pudic. Posterior Trunk. Ilio-lumbar, Obturator, Loteral sacral, Gluteal. The Umbilical is the commencement of the fibrous cord, which passes forwards by the side of the fundus of the bladder, and then ascends converging to the urachus, and its fellow of the opposite side, as far as the um- bilicus. It is pervious for a short distance only, and gives off several small branches, called superior vesical, which are distributed to the fundus and side of the bladder, and extend as far as the prostate gland. The Ischiatic artery descends to the lower border of the great sacro-ischiatic foramen, and escapes from the pelvis below the pyriformis muscle. It gives off a few small branches within the pelvis to the rectum, fundus of the bladder, and vesiculse seminales : see page 36. The Internal pudic artery also passes through the great sacro-ischiatic foramen, below the pyriformis muscle, but nearer to the sacrum than the ischiatic. It crosses the spine of the ischium, and re-enters the pelvis through the lesser sacro-ischiatic foramen ; it then crosses the tube- rosity of the ischium at about an inch from its lower border, resting upon the obturator muscle, and bound down by the obturator fascia. It next ascends along the edge of the ramus of the ischium and pubis, between the