366 PANCREAS* continued inwards, with the vessels forming sheaths for them to their ultimate ramifications. Some small granular corpuscules are found disseminated through the substance of the spleen in animals, and in a few rare instances they have been observed in man. The student should now remove the stomach after passing a liga- ture around the cardiae and pyloric orifices, by dividing the gastro- splenic omentum, and separating its connections with vessels, and with the oesophagus and duodenum. Having left the duodenum in its normal position, he should inflate it and observe its relations to surrounding parts, and then proceed to examine the pancreas. The Pancreas is a conglomerate gland, lying trans- versely across the posterior wall of the abdomen. It is di- vided into a greater and lesser end, the great end or head being situated to the right in contact with the descending portion of the duodenum, is enclosed in the triangular space formed by the curved course of that intestine. From the greater end it tapers gradually to the lesser, and terminates in a point near to the concave surface of the spleen. It is covered in front by the ascending posterior layer of peritoneum and by the stomach. Behind it rests upon the commencement of the vena portse, the vena cava and the origin of the superior mesenteric artery from the aorta, opposite to the second lumbar vertebra. The transverse duodenum occupies its loiver border, the superior mesenteric artery and vein being interposed, and the splenic artery and vein are situated along its upper margin. In structure it resembles a salivary gland, consisting of lobules, from which small excretory ducts converge at right angles, to form a single pancreatic duct. Near the duodenum this duct is joined by a smaller one (ductus pancreaticus minor,) which collects the secretion from the great end of the pancreas. The pancreatic duct terminates near to the inferior angle of the duodenum in a papilla upon the mucous membrane, which is common to it and the ductus communis choledochus. Sometimes the two ducts open separately ; at other times they unite pre- viously to piercing the coats of the intestine. Their course between the coats of the duodenum is always very oblique.