454 COSTO-STERNAL ARTICULATIONS. the middle fasciculus is attached to the inter-vertebral substance; and the inferior to the vertebra below. The Capsular ligament is a very thin layer of ligament- ous fibres that surrounds the joint in the interval left by the anterior ligament, and protects the synovial mem- branes. The Inter-articular ligament passes between the sharp crest on the head of the rib and the inter-vertebral sub- stance. It divides the joint into two cavities, which are each furnished with a separate synovial membrane. The first, eleventh and twelfth ribs have no inter-articular liga- ment, and consequently but one synovial membrane. The Anterior costo-transverse ligament is a broad band, which ascends from the neck of the rib to the transverse process immediately above it. The Middle costo-transverse ligament is an interosseous ligament, passing directly between the posterior surface of the neck of the rib, and the transverse ligament against which it rests. The Posterior costo-transverse ligament is a small but strong fasciculus, passing from the tubercle on the rib to the apex of the transverse process. The articulation be- tween the tubercle of the rib and the transverse ligament is provided with a small synovial membrane. There is no anterior costo-transverse ligament between the first and second ribs ; and no posterior costo-transverse to the eleventh and twelfth ribs. 7- Articulation of the ribs with the sternum, and with each other.—The ligaments of the costo-sternal articu- lations are, Anterior costo-sternal, Posterior costo-sternal. The Anterior costo-sternal ligament is a thin band of ligamentous fibres that passes in a radiated direction from the extremity of the costal cartilage to the anterior sur- face of the sternum, and intermingles its fibres with those of the ligament of the opposite side. The Posterior costo-sternal ligament is much smaller than the anterior, and consists of only a thin fasciculus of fibres situated on the posterior surface of the articulation.