VITREOUS HUMOUR. 289 LENS. iris and pupil in front, and by the ciliary process and lens I behind. The two chambers are lined by a thin layer, the secre- ting membrane of the aqueous humour. The Vitreous humour forms the principal bulk of the globe of the eye. It is enclosed in a delicate membrane, the hyaloid {fig. 32. 10.), which sends processes into its interior, forming cells in which the humour is retained. A small artery, 15., may sometimes be traced through the centre of the vitreous humour to the capsule of the lens. It is surrounded by a sheath of the hyaloid mem- brane, which is reflected forwards with it. This vessel is easily injected in the foetus. The Crystalline humour or lens {fig. 32. 13.) is situated immediately behind the pupil, and is surrounded by the ciliary processes, which slightly overlap its margin. It is more convex on the posterior than on the anterior sur- i j face, and is embedded in the anterior part of the vitreous humour, from which it is separated by the hyaloid mem- brane. It is invested by a proper capsule, which contains a small quantity of fluid called liquor Morgagni *, and s is retained in its place by the attachment of the zonula I ciliaris. The lens consists of concentric layers, of which the I external are soft, the next firmer, and the central form a » hardened nucleus. These layers are best demonstrated u by boiling, when they separate easily from each other. An- t other division of the lens takes place at the same time: it splits into three triangular segments, which have the sharp I! edge directed towards the centre, and the base towards >| the circumference. Immediately around the circumference of the lens is a triangular canal, the canal of Petit f {fig. 32. 11.), which is bounded in front by the flutings of the zonula ciliaris, behind by the hyaloid membrane, and within by the bor- ier of the lens. • * John Baptist Morgagni was born in 1682. He was appointed iro , °r of medicine in Bologna, and published the first part of his ‘ Adversaria Anatomica,” in 1706. lie died in 1771 f John Louis Petit, a celebrated French surgeon he published everal suigical and anatomical essays, in the early part of the 18th entury. He died in 1750.