158 DISSECTION OP THE NECK. 8. Muscles of the larynx. Cr: co-ary taenoid, lateralis, Crico-thyroid, Thyro-arytaenoid, Crico-arytaenoid, posticus, Arytaenoid. After this arrangement of the muscles has been well considered, and, we may add, learnt by heart, the student should commence the dissection of one side of the neck with a view to see their connections and relations. With this object an incision should be made along the middle line of the neck from the chin to the sternum, and bounded superiorly and inferiorly by two transverse incisions; the superior one carried along the margin of the lower jaw, and across the mastoid process to the tubercle on the occipital bone, the inferior one along the clavicle to the acromion process. The square flap of integument thus included should be turned back from the entire side of the neck, which brings into view the superficial fascia. The Superficial fascia consists of two layers, between which is placed the platysma myoides muscle. The ex- ternal layer must, therefore, be reflected from off its fibres, to the same extent with the flap of integument, observing to dissect always in the course of the fibres. The Platysma myoides (pcXarvt;, y.vq, broad mus- cle-like lamella,) is a thin plane of muscular fibres, arising between the two layers of superficial fascia, over the pec- toralis major muscle, and passing obliquely upwards and inwards, along the side of the neck, to be inserted into the body of the lower jaw, the angle of the mouth, and side of the chin. The anterior fibres are continuous below the chin with the muscle of the opposite side. That portion of the muscle which is continued upwards to the angle of the mouth, was formerly called risorius Santorini* (the laughing muscle of Santorinus). The entire muscle is analogous to the cutaneous muscle of brutes, panniculus carnosus. Upon removing the platysma, and with it the deep layer of superficial fascia, we bring into view the external jugular vein, and ascending branches of the cervical plexus of nerves. The jugular vein is lying obliquely along the neck, parallel with the fibres of the platysma myoides, while it crosses the direction of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The sterno-mastoid is as yet concealed from view by a * John Dominico Santorinus, Professor of Anatomy in Venice. His notice of this muscle is contained in his “ Observationes Ana- tomicaa,” published in 1724.