254; LINING MEMBRANE OE THE VENTRICLES. transversae. At the point of the pen is a small cavity lined with grey substance, and called Ventricle of Aran- tius. The Linece transversce (fig. 27. 8.) are irregular trans- verse lines upon the anterior wall of the ventricle, which in some degree resemble the plume of the pen. They are the filaments of origin of the auditory nerve. There is no communication between the fourth ven- tricle and the subarachnoidean cellular tissue, as ima- gined by Magendie. Lining Membrane of the Ventricles. The lining membrane of the ventricles is a serous layer, quite distinct from the arachnoid, and having no communication with it. This membrane lines the whole of the interior of the lateral ventricles, and is connected above and below to the attached border of the choroid plexus, so as to exclude completely all communication be- tween the ventricles and the exterior of the brain. It is reflected through the foramen of Munro on each side into the third ventricle, which it invests throughout. From the third it is conducted into the fourth ventricle, through the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum, and lines its interior, together with the layer of pia mater which forms its inferior boundary. In this manner a perfect communi- cation is established between all the ventricles, with the exception of the fifth, which has its own proper mem- brane. It is this membrane which gives them their polished surface, and transudes the secretion which moistens their interior. When this fluid accumulates to an unnatural degree, it may then break down the layer of pia mater at the bottom of the fourth ventricle, and thus pour its fluid into the subarachnoidean cellular tissue; but in the normal condition no communication whatever can exist between the interior of the ventricles and the serous covering of the exterior of the brain. Cerebellum. The Cerebellum, according to Cruveilhier, is seven times smaller than the cerebrum. Like it, it is composed of white and grey substance, whereof the grey is in larger