2 66 MOTOR NERVES. tractus motorius. Now the three motor nerves arise from the motor tract at different points of its course. 3d pair, Motores Oculorum.—This nerve (Jig.21. 3.) arises from the inner side of the crus cerebri. It pierces the dura mater immediately in front of the posterior clinoid process, descends obliquely along the external wall of the cavernous sinus, and enters the orbit between the two heads of the external rectus, to be distributed to all the muscles of the orbit excepting the superior oblique and external rectus. 6th pair, Abducentes.—The abducens nerve (Jig. 21. 6.) arises from the upper part of the corpus pyramidale. It pierces the dura mater upon the basilar process of the sphenoid bone, and ascends to the cavernous sinus. It then runs forwards along the inner wall of the sinus, below all the other nerves, and, resting against the in- ternal carotid artery, passes between the two heads of the external rectus, and is distributed to that muscle. 9th pair, Lingual (hypoglossal). — The ninth nerve arises by several filaments from the side of the corpus pyramidale, and passes out of the skull through the ante- rior condyloid foramen. It is distributed to the muscles of the tongue. Respiratory nerves.—A narrow white fasciculus exists between the corpus olivare and corpus restiforme in the medulla oblongata, from which arise a series of nerves which Sir C. Bell conceived to be analogous in their function. Hence he named them, in consonance with his views, respiratory. This arrangement, however, presents the anomaly of a respiratory nerve being distributed to one of the muscles of the orbit. 4th pair, Pathetici (Jig. 21.4.) (trochlearis).—This is the smallest cerebral nerve : it arises from the testis and valve of Vieussens, pierces the dura mater at the anterior attachment of the tentorium, close to the oval opening which transmits the fifth nerve, and passes along the outer wall of the cavernous sinus to enter the orbit above the origin of the levator palpebrae muscle. In the sinus it is the second nerve from above, but soon rises above the third, and becomes the highest. It is distributed upon the orbitar surface of the superior oblique, or troch- learis muscle : hence its synonyme, trochlearis.