FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. 216 rior and inferior, supply the muscles of the orbit; and upon the anterior aspect of the globe of the eye give off the anterior ciliary arteries, which pierce the sclerotic near its margin of connection with the cornea, and supply the iris. It is the congestion of these vessels that gives rise to the vascular zone around the cornea in iritis. The Ciliary arteries are divided, according to their extent, into short, long, and anterior. The Short ciliary, very numerous, pierce the sclerotic around the entrance of the optic nerve, and supply the choroid coat and ciliary processes. The long ciliary, two in number, pierce the sclerotic upon opposite sides of the globe of the eye, and pass forwards between it and the choroid to the iris to which they are distributed. The anterior have been described. The Centralis retina artery pierces the optic nerve, and passes forwards in the centre of its cylinder to the retina, where it divides into branches, which form the inner layer of that membrane. It supplies the retinae, hyaloid membrane, and capsule of the lens, by means of a branch sent forwards through the centre of the vitreous humour. The Ophthalmic vein collects the venous blood from all parts of the orbit, and forms a large trunk, which crosses the optic nerve with the ophthalmic artery, and passes between the two heads of the external rectus, to open into the cavernous sinus. Fifth Pair of Nerves. The student should now proceed to the dissection of the fifth pair of nerves. For this purpose the contents of the orbit should be entirely removed, and its external wall sawn through nearly to a level with its floor. Then reflect the dura mater from the anterior surface of the petrous bone, so as to expose the Casserian * ganglion and its three divisions. The Fifth nerve (trigeminus, trifacial) arises by two roots, one from the corpus pyramidale (Jig- 21. 11.) ; the other, 10., from the corpus restiforme. The nerve pierces * Julius Casserius was appointed to fill the Anatomical Chair in Padua, in 1609. He died in 1627.