PERONEAL ARTERY. 58 Operation. — One of the most difficult operations in the entire body is the ligature of the posterior tibial artery, in the upper third of its course. It is happily one hardly ever required, excepting in the case of accidental wound, where both extremities of the vessel must be secured. An incision, five or six inches in length, is made parallel with the inner border of the tibia, and about half an inch distant. This will divide the integument, superficial fascia, and deep fascia; the border of the gastrocnemius is then to be held aside, and another incision of the same extent with the preceding made through the soleus down to the intermuscular fascia. When the intermuscular fascia is clearly exposed, it may be slit up. The artery, with its vena? comites and nerve, lie immediately beneath it, near the middle line of the leg, and resting upon the tibialis posticus muscle. The nerve lies upon the artery, or directly to its outer side. At the ankle, an incision two inches in length is sufficient. It must be directed obliquely from the inner border of the tendo Achillis, to the point of the internal malleolus, or in the opposite direction, as may be most convenient. It will divide the integu- ment, superficial fascia, and deep fascia. The next step, in the living subject, would be to feel for the pulsation of the artery ; but, in the dead, the student will find the sheath containing the vessels at about three quarters of an inch from the edge of the malleolus. The nerve lies to the outer side of the artery. If the student open a sheath lying immediately under cover of the malleolus, he will find it to contain the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum and tibialis posticus muscles. And if he get too near to the tendo Achillis, he will open the sheath of the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. Branches. — The Peroneal artery is given off from the posterior tibial, at about two inches below the lower border of the popliteus muscle ; it inclines outwards, and runs along the inner border of the fibula to its lower third, where it divides into its two branches, anterior and posterior peroneal. Relations. — It rests upon the tibialis posticus, and is covered in by the flexor longus pollicis, having the fibula to its outer side. Plan of the relations of the peroneal artery. In Front. Intermuscular fascia. Flexor longus pollicis. Outer Side. Fibula. Peroneal artery. Behind. Tibialis posticus.