202 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. The Communications between the lingual nerve, the eighth pair, and the sympathetic, are situated at the base of the skull, as we have before noted for the divisions of the eighth pair. The Descendens noni is a long slender nerve which quits the lingual just as it about to form its arch around the occipital artery, and descends upon the sheath of the carotid vessels. Just below the middle of the neck, it forms a loop with a long branch (communicans noni) from the second and third cervical nerves. From the convexity of this loop, branches are sent to the depressor muscles of the larynx. If the descendens noni be traced to its connection with the lingual nerve, and examined with care, it will be found to be formed by two filaments, one from the lingual, the other, of larger size, from the first and second cervical nerves.* The Hyoidean branch is a small branch distributed to the insertions of the depressor muscles of the larynx. The Communicating filaments with the gustatory nerve are two or three small branches which ascend upon the anterior part of the hyo-glossus muscle, and join corre- sponding branches sent downwards by the gustatory. The Sympathetic nerve, in the neck, descends from the carotid foramen in the temporal bone, behind the in- ternal carotid artery and sheath of the common carotid and internal jugular vein, to the head of the first rib, where it forms the first dorsal ganglion, and becomes thoracic. In its course downwards it rests upon the rectus anticus major and longus colli muscles, and forms three ganglia,— superior, middle, and inferior. The Superior cervical ganglion is long and fusiform, extending from near the carotid foramen to opposite the bifurcation of the common carotid. All the ganglia and nerves of the sympathetic present a peculiar reddish-grey appearance and pearly lustre. Since the time of Bichat, the ganglia have been regarded as so man)'- distinct centres, from which nerves are given off in all directions. These directions may, for the con- venience of arrangement and description, be reduced to * The connection between the lingual and cervical nerves is subject to much irregularity.