74 MINUTE ANATOMY OV THE LIVER. granular matter are often found. Usiially, there is only room for one row of cells, but sometimes two or more lie across the tube. In the embryos of mammalia, in young animals generally, and in fishes, there is room for several rows to lie transversely across the tubes of the cell-containing network. The cells near the margin of the lobule take the most active part in the formation of bile. The secretion passes along the tubes in the slight interstices between the cells and the basement mem- brane, and coloured fluid can be forced along these same interstices in a direction the opposite to that in which the bile flows during life, and, therefore, at a great disadvantage. The amount of space is in great measure determined by the quantity of blood in the vessels, and it is liable to great alteration. The cell-containing network is directly continuous with the most minnte ducts, which ramify at the circumference of the lobule, and it terminates in the centre by loops, which lie close to the intralobular vein. Of the Finest Ducts. The tubes of the ceU-containing network are many times wider than the narrow thin-walled ducts with which they are directly continuous. The smallest ducts are lined with a very delicate layer of epi- thelium, composed of flattened cells of a circular form, contrasting remarkably with the large secreting cells, which are not arranged in any definite manner within the tubes of the network. The tubes of the cell-containing network are about 1-lOOOth of an inch in diameter, or more, but the finest ducts are commonly not more than 1-3000th, and they are often seen even less. The smallest ducts in some animals branch very freely, and the branches communicate with each other at intervals. In others they pursue a long course without branching, and in the pig they form an intimate network upon the surface of the lobule. In fatty livers of the pig, however, this ductal network often contains liver- cells loaded with oil globules.