3 INJECTION OF THE DUCTS. at the same time transparent. A thin section is to be made with a very sharp, thin knife, then slightly washed and examined in dilute alcohol or glycerine. In many of the sections thus pre- pared, the appearances represented in some of the drawings in the present volume were produced. The same success is by no means always met with, and it is necessary to examine numerous speci- mens treated in different ways. Some of my preparations were obtained from the livers of animals in which the duct had been tied some hours before death; and others were taken from organs into the duct of which injection had been gradually forced until it would contain no more. Small pieces were then hardened, and examined after the lapse of some time. But, although, in many instances, I was able to satisfy myself of the truth of the most important points which I have to bring forward with regard to the arrangement of the minute ducts, a vast number of the preparations failed altogether, and I could not demonstrate the arrangement in every liver which I tried, so that I was compelled to resort to new means of preparation. Injection I had tried many times, and had only succeeded so far as consisted in driving the bile into the small ducts. I could not force the injec- tion far enough. The injection usually only reached the surface of the hepatic cell-containing network, and, in many instances, accumulated at this point, in which cases, the appearance of a duct terminating in a blind extremity was produced. Method of Injecting the Ducts of the Liver, and the Hepatic Cell-containing Network.—Although I felt certain of the correct- ness of my observations upon uninjected specimens, it appeared to be absolutely necessary to inject both the ducts, and from these, the cell-containing network, before their continuity could be regarded as proved. The presence of the bile in the ducts always prevented the passage of the injection into their most minute ramifications, and no long continued pressure, which I applied by means of a high column of fluid, or with a syringe, was sufficient to force this bile through the thin walls of the duct, and give place to my injection. A most imperfect injection or rupture waa the invariable result. After some time it occurred to me to endeavour in the first place to force out the bile by injecting the vascular capillaries with water, and, to my great delight, in the B 2