13 LOBULES OF THK LIVER. distant being of course the smallest. They all contain branches of the vessels above enumerated, and in this way no portion of hepatic tissue is at a greater distance from one of these canals than the one-thirtieth of an inch. These tubular passages have been named portal canals, by Mr. Kiernan. From the obhque notch on the posterior thick border, can be traced another series of channels, which contain branches of the hepatic vein, and every part of the liver is brought into an equally close relation with one of these canals, which have been termed by the same observer hepatic venous canals. Such is this beautiful arrangement, of which there is no other example, by which the vessels are brought into close relation with every portion of this large and compact gland; and thus an even distribution of the blood to each indi- vidual part is insured. From this general survey of the arrangement of the vessels of the liver, we pass naturally to the consideration of the lobules. LOBULES OF THE LIVEE, If the surface of a liver be examined, it is perceived to be mapped out, as it were, into a number of little spaces, about the size of a small hemp-seed, but diflFering slightly from each other in dimensions and form. The appearance of these markings is different in the livers of different animals. In the pig each little space is completely circumscribed, but, in the human subject, they seem to fit into, or in a manner appear to dovetail with each other. In other mammalian animals the markings are more or less dis- tinct than in the human subject, but in no one are these spaces defined in the perfect manner in which they are in the pig. If a section be made in various directions in different parts of the- organ, a similar mapping out is seen, although, perhaps, it is not quite so distinct as upon the surface. The structure of all these little component masses of the liver is similar. Each little mass, whether it be perfectly circumscribed, as in the pig, or less com- pletely so as is the case in other animals, is termed a " lobule." A lobule, then, contains all the essential elements for the secretion of bile, and for effecting those changes in the blood which this fluid is known to undergo in its passage through the capillary vpa.sels.