69 LIVEK AND KIDNEY COMPARED. were taken from the body of a starved frog, the biliary follicles and their ducts were very distinct. The cells in their interior contained colouring matter, and but veiy little oil, consequently the follicles were somewhat shrunken, and could be examined very satisfactorily. The follicle terminates in a coecal extremity, but is prolonged at the opposite end into a very narrow duct, which is soon joined by the ducts from other follicles. Suppose the coecal extremities extended, and communicating with each other, so as to form a network, and an appearance closely resembling the drawing of the connexion between the ducts and cell-containing network in fig. 27 would result. The cells appear to contain colouring matter and oil, either in a granular state or in the form of distinct globules, in all classes of animals; their general character is very similar, and they lie in the tube or follicle which contains them without order or regularity, their form being influenced to a considerable extent by mutual pressure. It is impossible to help seeing a similarity in the arrangement of the coecal follicles, with their narrow necks, around some of the ducts in the higher animals, and comparing this with the follicular condition of the entire organ in many of the mollusca and Crustacea. In the different members of the animal creation, the liver-cell preserves certain constant peculiarities ; and in the development of the young animal, this cell soon attains the characters which it bears throughout life, except that it contains a greater number of nuclei at this early period. The comparison is exceedingly inte- resting, as shewing the great similarity in the essential arrange- ment of the liver in animals occupying such opposite positions in the animal scale. The Liver and Kidney compared.—The bile and the urine, the two most important secretions in the body, have often been con- trasted, and their opposite or complementary nature has been pointed out. It is interesting to compare the anatomy of the glands which secrete these dissimilar fluids. The kidney is an organ destined for the rapid removal of sub - stances, the most important of which, at least, exist pre-fnrraed in the blood, largely diluted with water. A tortuous tube of base- ment membrane, closed at one end, lined in its interior with cells, but having a free central cavity, is the essential apparatus by