45 CONTENTS OF THE TUBULAR NETWORK. work wovJd find its way between tbe cells and the tube of membrane to the margin of the lobule. Upon the other conclusion, which supposes that the cells lie freely in the meshes of the capillary network, the bile formed in the more central part of the lobule is supposed to be transmitted from cell to cell, until at last it reaches those at the circumference of the lobule, and it is further concluded that, in its trans- mission, it becomes elaborated, by being acted upon by each successive cell of the series. If, then, bile were formed by being passed on from cell to cell in this manner, the materials fi-om which the crude bile is first formed ought to be separated from the blood in the more central parts of the lobule; for other- wise, the blood, rich with recently absorbed constituents, would seem to pass through a considerable extent of that portion of the capillary network at the circumference of the lobule to no purpose. If the above description of the anatomy of the parts be correct, the precise point of the most active formation of bile should be the outer part of the lobule, for the blood reaches this part first. It will be shown subsequently that this is probably the case. Argument alone would render the existence of such a membrane probable, but, with care, its presence may be actually demon- strated, and by several different methods of preparation. CONTENTS OF THE TUBULAR NETWORK OF BASEMENT MEMBRANE. The most important anatomical elements contained in the tubular network of basement membrane are the liver cells; but, besides these, a certain quantity of free granular matter is always present; and not unfrequently oil globules, and granules of dark yellow colouring matter, are met with. In disease, it is not unusual to find the network occupied by a viscid, granular, highly refractive mass, in which only a few nuclei can be observed. Some- times the network is so shrunken as not to be more than half the diameter of an ordinary healthy hepatic cell, and its contents appear to consist of a viscid material, in which are suspended granules and oil globules. In fishes generally, the tubular net- work seems to be greatly distended, and entirely occupied by a