29 HEPATIC DUCT. spread through them, until tlie appearance above referred to was produced, its course towards the central capillaries being, in the majority of instances, prevented by their distension with blood or serum. If the preparation exhibiting this arrangement, be com- pared with others from the same liver, its mode of production can be clearly made out. I believe it to be the explanation of the result obtained by some anatomists, who have been led to con- clude, from the appearance above indicated, that the smaU arteries emptied themselves into the capillaries nearer to the intralobular vein, or into this vessel itself. The whole of the blood, therefore, which has become venous after passing through the arterial network, mixes with that of the portal vein, either before the trunk enters the liver, or into the large branches in the portal canals, or into the lobular capillaries ; and probably takes part in the formation of bile. Arrangement in Gall-Bladder, ^'c.—The arrangement of the artery and veins is different in the gall-bladder, and in the trans- verse fissure of the liver (fig. 25) and large portal canals. In these situations even very small branches of the artery are accompanied by two small branches of the vein. This arrangement appears to facilitate the free return of blood from these parts, and, it seems to me, may be looked upon as a provision for permitting that amount of stretching or pressure to which these vessels must necessarily be subjected, without interfering with the free circula- tion of blood through them. As the united capacity of the veins is twice that of the artery, the free and equable circulation iu these small vessels is insured under all circumstances. The chance of congestion occurring in the portal canals is still further provided against by the communication of the arterial network with the capillaries of the lobule. HEPATIC DUCT. The branches of the duct lie in the portal canals with branches of the vein and arteiy. At least one branch of the duct accom- panies each branch of the portal vein, but frequently there are two or three (fig. 12). From the branch or branches accompany- ing the vein, several smaller ones pass off to the secreting struc- ture. These do not anastomose so as to encircle the lobules.