MINUTE ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. 6 less. After a time water only slightly tinged with blood will escape from the hepatic vein^ while at the same time almost pure water will pass out from the gall duct. The force used must be as gentle as possible, for otherwise some of the minute vessels will be ruptured, and the preparation will not succeed. After the vessels have been fully distended in this manner, the water is allowed to escape from them, and the liver wrapped up in two or three soft cloths, which will absorb much more of the water. The cloths are to be changed when soddened with water. In the course of from twelve to twenty-four hours, the liver will appear shrivelled, and of a soft clayey consistence. It is now ready to be injected from the duct. A mixtm-e of about two-thirds water, and one-third spirit, in which recently precipitated Prussian blue is suspended, is strained through two or three layers of the finest muslin, and carefully injected into the duct, applying slight, but gradually increased, pressure. The injection should be performed with a small half-ounce or ounce syringe, or by pressure of the fluid placed in a glass tube about four feet high. As soon as the blue injection is seen at several points at the circumference of the lobules, and more fluid cannot easily be forced into the duct, it is better to wait a few hours, and then inject a little more; but the injection of the duct must not be pushed too far, for although in some places no colour whatever is to be seen, in other parts a good injection has, perhaps, been effected. After the duct has been injected, the liver is again set aside for a few hours in damp cloths, so that the superfluous fluid may be absorbed. Preparation of the Injection.—The Prussian blue is prepared in the usual way, by adding gradually a solution of Ferrocyanide of Potassium to a very dilute solution of Perchloride of Iron. The mixture should be of a dark colom-, but should contain no flocculi. It should not deposit a precipitate even after it has been allowed to stand for some time. Without care an abundant deposit of Prussian blue is obtained, which does not flow well. The mixture should have the appearance of a dark-blue solution, rather than of a deposit held in suspension. The addition of a little spirit has the advantage of hardening the delicate walls of the smaller ducts as the injection passes into them, and thus preventing their