MINUTE ANATOMY OF THE LIVEK. 26 often be traced from the interlobular fissures into the lobule, breaking up into capillaries as they go. Manner in which the appearance of a Venous Ring is produced. —In dried preparations, owing to the close approximation of trunks which in the recent state had occupied very ditfercnt planes, an appearance as if the smaller trunks communicated with each other, and thus encircled the lobule in a venous ring, is undoubtedly produced. That such an appearance is fallacious is proved by carefully examining well injected specimens in fluid. For this purpose it is better to use a transparent injection, which can be examined by transmitted light. Very rarely, however, small branches of the vein do anastomose, but this communication is quite exceptional, and a similar anastomosis even occurs, some- times between branches of the hepatic vein, as represented in fig. 6. The diagramatic representations of most authors would lead to the conclusion that such an arrangement, in the case of the portal vein, was constant, which is not the case. The mode of distribution of the small branches of the portal vein, in the human subject, is represented in figs. 3 and 4 j in the pig, figs. 10 and 12, and in the eel, fig. 54. Arrangement of Venous Branches in the coats of the Gall- bladder, Transverse Fissure, and larger Portal Canals.—In the coats of the gall-bladder, in the transverse fissui-e, and in the large portal canals of the human liver, there exists an intimate network of veins, which pour their blood into the large branches of the portal vein. The arrangement of these branches is peculiar and exceedingly beautiful, especially in the gall-bladder, in the coats of which there exists an abundant venous and arterial network. Each branch of artery is accompanied by two branches of vein; and when these sets of vessels are injected with difi"erent colom-s, a very beautiftd appearance is produced. I have a preparation iu which the artery has been injected with vermihon, and the vein with white lead. HEPATIC ARTERY. Branches to the Capsule.—Many branches of the artery pass to the capsule of the liver, in which they ramify abundantly, form- ing a network having large meshes. These capsular branches aud