35 GALL-BLADDER AND GALL-DUCTS. cellular passages between the liver-cells. This part of the subject will be more fully discussed in Chapter V. GALL-BLADDKll, The gall-bladder may be looked upon as a diverticulum of the hepatic duct. It lies in a fossa underneath the liver. It is of a pear shape, and its fundus is directed downwards and forwards; it terminates in the cystic duct, which is about an inch in length. The hepatic duct, formed by the union of the right and left ducts, leaving the liver by the transverse fissui-e, passes downwards, and soon joins the cystic duct at an acute angle, to form the ductus communis choledochus, whicb is about three inches in length, and lies between the layers of the gastro-hepatic omentum. After coming into close proximity with the pancreatic duct, the common duct enters the coats of the intestine with the latter, and passes obliquely between them for three-quarters of an inch. The ducts open by an orifice common to both at the junction of the descend- ing and transverse portions of the duodenum. The mucous membrane of the gall-bladder is thrown into reti- culated folds, which form the boundaries of numerous polygonal depressions, so that upon its internal surface it presents a honej^- combed appearance. It is highly vascular, and is covered with columnar epithelium. The folds are prolonged into the cystic duct, where they are arranged in a crescentic manner, their general du'ection being that of a spiral, and they have been compared to a spiral valve. The peculiar arrangement of the vessels of the gall- bladder has already been described in page 26.* The cystic artery is derived from the right division of the hepatic, and the veins empty themselves into the vena porta3. The lymphatics are very numerous. The greater part of the thickness of the walls of the gall-bladder is composed of fibrous tissue, but there also exists a layer, in which muscular fibre-cells, taking partly a longitudinal and partly a transverse direction, are found. The human gall- l)ladder is capable, under ordinary circumstances, of containing about one ounce of fluid; but it undergoes great alterations in * Through the kindness of his friend, Professor Weber, the author has just had au opportunity of reading his researches upon the anatomy of tlie liver, in which he refers to the distribution of the vessels upon the gall-bladder, described in p. 26. Weber is the only author who notices this very beautiful and unusual arrangement of the vessels. D 2