27 HEPATIC ARTERY. their anastomoses, are readily injected in the liver of the foetus or child. They ai-e beautifully seen upon the surface of the pig's liver, and encircle each individual lobule with a ring. Branches in the Portal Canals.—E?lc\\ branch of portal vein, in the portal canals, is axieompanied with at least one branch of the hepatic artery, figs. 4, 5, 12, 28, 29, and frequently by two or three which communicate with each other by anastomising branches. The artery gives off numerous branches in the portal canals. The greater number of these are distributed upon the coats of the ducts. The thick Avails of the larger ducts are abundantly sup- pHed with arterial blood, fig. 9; but the smaller branches of the duct, the coats of which are extremely delicate, pass through the meshes of an arterial network, fig. 8. In the pig this network may be very readily demonstrated upon the surface of each lobiile, as represented in figs. 7 and 8, where it is only imperfectly injected; but in the human subject, and in mammalia generally, the branches are less numerous, and are seen only in the inter- lobular spaces; other branches supply the coats of the portal and hepatic veins. The greater quantity of blood, after passing through these small arteries, is collected by venous radicles, which empty themselves into branches of the portal vein. Branches which open into the Portal Capillaries of the Lobule.— A certain proportion, however, of the blood is undoubtedly poured into the capillaries of the lobule, as may be readily proved by injec- tion with different colours. Some very small straight axterial branches may be traced from the portal aspect of the lobule, or from the interlobular fissures, for a short distance into the interior, where they join the capillaries, near the portal surface of the lobule. The whole of the arterial blood, therefore, which supplies nutriment to the several structures of the liver, passes tlirough the capillaries of the lobule before it is returned to the heart, and no doubt furnishes a small portion of the material from which the bile is formed. The termination of some of the lobular branches of the artery is represented in the frontispiece at g, in fig. 2 at d, and in fig. 7 at b. The hepatic artery was originally regarded by Kiernan as one of the sources of the blood conveyed to the