42 MINUTE ANATOMY OF THE LlVEll. served, in which tlic basement is demonstrated very satisfactorily. The cells within can be seen, and the delicate tube projects beyond them for a short distance. Distension of the Tkcbes by Injection.—The network is capable of being distended to a considerable extent in every part of the lobule without rupture. Often the injection accumulates to such an extent as completely to obscure the cells; and, in consequence of the pressure thus caused, the vessels are rendered invisible. Even in such specimens, the appearance cannot be mistaken for extravasation or vascular injection. In tubes which are only partially injected, the injection often accumulates a little on each side, gradually shading off, as it were, towards the centre; while towards the adjacent capillary vessel it forms a distinct, well- defined, and dark line. A portion of the cell-containing network, and its junction with some of the finest ducts, from the human subject, injected with Prussian blue, is delineated in fig. 46. The cells represented in this drawing are much altered, from the mode of preparing the specimen. Their position, however, is shown. In the pig, portions of the cell-containing network in difi^erent states are represented in figs. 49, 50, 52; in the seal in figs. 28 and 33 ; in the rabbit in figs. 30, 32, and 33a ; and in the dog in fig. 58. The cells which escape into the surrounding fluid from an injected specimen have portions of injection adhering to them, or are deeply stained with it. Radiation of the Tubes from the centre of the Lobule.—If a section be made through the lobule, exactly at right angles to a small branch of the intralobular vein, the cells are seen to form rows, which radiate from the centre towards the circum- ference of the lobule, as has been noticed by MuUer, Valentin, Bow- man, Theile, Gerlach, and others. In sections made in other directions, this radiated arrangement is not to be shown. Fig. 24 is an exact copy of a section of horse's liver, and is the most beautiful specimen of this arrangement which I have seen. The rows increase in number as they pass from the centre. They are connected at irregular intervals by oblique or transverse branches, often much narrower than a cell, and contain only nuclei and granular matter. These communicating branches arc best seen in