65 CHAPTER VT. SOME GENERAL OBSERVATIONS UPON THE ANATOMY AND PnYSIOLOGT OF THE LIVER:—THE VERTEBRATE LIVER.— THE VERTEBRATE AND INVERTEBRATE LIVER COMPARED. THE LIVER AND KIDNEY COMPARED.—POSITION OF THE LIVER AS A SECRETING ORGAN.—SUMMARY. The Vertebrate Liver.—The vertebrate liver may be looked upon as consisting essentially of two distinct systems of channels arranged so as to form solid* networks which mutually interlace with each other. In one of these networks lie the secreting cellsj often arranged so as to form only a single roWj which is, therefore, sur- rounded on all sides by the blood containing the elements from which the bile is formed. The fluid bile escaping from the cells into the network of tubes, flows towards the surface of the lobule where the ducts lie. In the other network flows the blood, but in a precisely opposite dii'ection to that which the bile takes. The portal blood reaches the capillaries of the lobule at many different points upon its surface, and all the blood from these nume- rous sources at the circumference, must pass through capillary vessels which converge towards the single radicle of the hepatic vein in the centre; and hence it follows that the circulation of this blood must be much more rapid in the central part of the lobule than near the portal surface. This perfectly harmonizes with many anatomical facts which I have before alluded to. The blood which has just arrived from the intestines, loaded with recently absorbed constituents, flows very slowly, in order to give time for the action of the liver cells upon it, and for the removal of some of these substances from it. When these have been sepa- rated, its slow course is no longer necessary, and as it becomes purer it flows with increasing velocity, until it is at last poured into the large inferior cava. By the very simple and beautiful combination of the elementary * This term was first employed by Mr. Bowman, vide article, " Mucous Membrane," Todd's Cyclopoedia of Anatomy and Physiology.