5 EXTKAVASATION INTO LYMl'HATJCS. employed, but the injection permeated the delicate basement mem- brane of the tubes and the adjacent textures were equally coloured, so that the nature of the arrangement was still undecided. Freshly- prepared Prussian blue Avas tried, and with much better success. Now, however, a new difficulty presented itself. The thinnest sections which could be obtained, necessarily consisted of several planes of the cell-containing network and capillaries, and, in con- sequence of the distension of the former by the injection, the latter could not be distinguished. It then occurred to me to try to inject both the portal vein and the duct; the former with plain size, and the latter with Prussian blue. In a liver prepared in this manner I was fortunate enough to see in severed different sec- tions, with a quarter of an inch, the blue transparent injection in one tube in close juxtaposition to a colourless capillary vessel injected with plain size. By varying the kind of injection, and resorting to many experiments which it would be useless to recount, I have gradually arrived at a plan of procedure by which speci- mens can almost always be obtained which will bear examination with a quarter, or even with an eighth of an inch object glass. Extravasation into the Lq/mphatics.—Often when too great force is employed, rupture of the walls of a small duct occurs, when the injection not unfrequently passes into a lymphatic vessel, and in this way, as was shown by Kiernan, the abundant plexus of lymphatics in the large portal canals can be injected. In one instance the injection passed into the thoracic duct. A similar result likewise occurred to me in a rabbit. This accidental injec- tion of the lymphatics has been noticed by many. Mascagui long ago noticed that when injection was thrown into the ducts it returned colourless by the absorbents. Although the lymphatics are so easily injected, I have not been successful in my attempts to ascertain how these vessels commence in the liver, and have not yet seen them distinctly in portal canals less than the quarter of an inch in diameter. DIRECTIONS FOR INJECTING A J.IVEU FOR EXAMINATION WITH HIGH POWERS OF THE MICROSCOPE. The portal vein is to be injected with tepid water until the blood is washed out and the whole organ becomes nearly colour-