32 MINUTE ANATOiMY OF TIIH LIVER. derately good injection of the ducts, they are seen in great number, although it is not always easy to isolate them, in conse- quence of the quantity of areolar tissue with which they are surrounded. In order to inject them, it is necessary to force out the bile from the ducts in the first instance, in the manner de- scribed in Chapter I. It is, however, difficult to understand how the smaller ducts of a liver could be successfully injected without these tubes being rendered sufficiently distinct. These ducts are imbedded in areolar tissue, which is abun- dant in the parts where they are found. In the transverse fissure of the adult, the ducts lie nearer to the hepatic substance than to the coats of - the portal vein; but they can be easily removed, without cutting into it. I have been able to trace straight branches from the vasa aberrantia directly into the hepatic sub- stance. The further course of these branches is that of an ordinary duct. In the foetus, these curious ducts are much less numerous; their course is less tortuous, and they occur in small patches, in which the branches are seen to be very numerous, and the anas- tomoses very frequent. The epithelium is more abundant, and the cells large, and dark in colour; so that the injection does not run so readily as in the adult. The quantity of areolar tissue about them is much less than in the adult. The vasa aberrantia lie so close to the hepatic tissue, that it is almost impossible to remove them without a thin layer of the latter, into which they are prolonged at numerous points. There are, nevertheless, many blind extremities connected with them. Office of the Vasa Aberrantia and Sacculi.—The circumstances which have been alluded to, appear to me to militate strongly against the notion of the vasa aberrantia being modified, and anastomosing mucous glands. They seem rather to point to the ductal nature of these curious channels; and I think it not improbable that they are really altered secreting tubes, and at one time formed a part of the secreting structure of the liver. As the portal vein becomes larger at the termination of intra- uterine Ufe, it is not unreasonable to suppose that the hepatic tissue, close to it, would recede; and that the most superficial portion would become so modified, as to be no longer adapted for