71 POSITION AS A SECRETING ORGAN. of the ducts from their commencement to their termination. Unlike the urine, the bile undergoes important alterations after it has been set free by the cells in its course along the ducts, and it is probable that but a small proportion of the total quantity formed in the liver is entirely removed from the organism without under- going many other changes previously. Position of the Live/' as a secreting organ.—The liver, then, is to be classed with the true glands. In all classes of animals it consists of a formative portion and of an efferent duct, the epithe- lium in these two situations presenting wide and characteristic differences. It contains both absolutely and relatively a greater proportion of true secreting structure than any other organ. Its secretion is of the most complex chemical composition, and differs more widely from any known constituents of the blood than any other secreted product; so also it seems to serve a greater number of important purposes in the economy, while from the most recent experiments it appears that the amount of bile separated by the liver in twenty-four hours is larger than that of any other liquid secretion, and at the same time it contains a higher per-centage of solid matter. The early appearance of the liver,—its large size both in the embryo and in the adult, its almost universal presence and general similarity of structure in all classes of animals, the complex and highly concentrated nature of its secretion and its large quantity, justify us in regarding the liver as the most important glandular organ in the body. The large size and vast number of its cells, their close proximity to the blood, and the beautiful arrangement of the other anatomical elements of which it is composed, render it, I think, the most perfect example of gland structure with which we are acquainted. SUMMARY. The livers of all vertebrate animals are penetrated in every part by two sets of channels, which alternate with each other. One series, portal canals, contains a branch of the portal vein, hepatic artery, and hepatic duct, interlobular; and the other series, hepatic venous canals, is occupied by a smgle branch of the hepatic vein, inlralobular.