MINUTE ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. 8 and rupture of its coats has not taken place, the fluid which escapes from the hepatic vein will not have the slightest blue tinge; hut if this should be the case, we may still proceed, as it often happens that, although extravasation has occurred from the duct into the vessels, the escape has only taken place into one of the smaller branches: and as the vessels do not anastomose, it only affects the lobules supplied by the branch of vein in which the opening has been made. When size runs out at the hepatic vein, the open end of the latter may be tied, and a little more carefully injected into the portal vessels, in order to distend the capillary plexus. Lastly, a little size is injected into the duct, in order to distend the larger ducts, and to prevent the injection from returning after it has been forced into the smaller branches. When the liver appears filled, it may be placed in cold water until the size sets. By varying the plan above described somewhat, the difl'erent vessels may be injected with difl'erent colours. I have succeeded in injecting a human liver with four colours. The portal vein is injected with Flake White, the artery with Vermilion, the hepatic vein with Lake, and the duct with Prussian Blue. From this liver I have obtained specimens which show very clearly many of the points which I shall describe, and many of these preparations have been preserved. In this liver, as would be supposed, it is difficult to find a part in which the vessels and ducts are well injected, but such specimens have been obtained. PREPARATION OF SPECIMENS PREVIOUS TO EXAMINATION IN THE MICROSCOPE. When the ducts and portal vein have been successfully injected in the manner described, the greatest care is required in preparing the section for examination. A very sharp knife, or Valentin's knife, in good order, may be employed. The thinnest section, after very careful washing, must be placed in a drop of syrup, or glycerine, and the glass cover so applied as to press very slightly upon the specimen. If the washing be not carefully conducted, the superficial cells will be removed, and the vessels will collapse. On the other hand, if all the cells and debris adhering to the surface of the section are not washed ofi^, the preparation will