EXPLANATION OF TIIK FIGURES, xviii Fig. 44,—Capillaries of lobule, d, with tube of cell-containing network between them, from the human liver. Magnified 300 diameters. Fig. 45.—Portion of cell-containing network of lobules of human liver, very much stretched. / h. Capillaries very faintly represented. Magnified 300 diameters. Fig. 46.—A small duct at the point where it becomes continuous with the cell-containing network, from the human liver. The cells are much altered from the mode of preparing the specimen, and the duct is much distended with injection. Magnified about 110 diameters. Fig. 47.—Small portion of the capsule of a lobule of the pig's liver, show- ing the delicate fibrous tissue of which it consists. Fig. 48.—An interlobular duct from the pig's liver dividing into smaller branches upon the surface of a lobule. Injected with Prussian blue. The injection has entered the superficial portion of the cell-containing network, producing the mottled appearance represented. Magnified 20 diameters. Fig. 49.—Portion of the network of a lobule of the pig's Hver much shrunken, and not containing liver ceUs, an appearance produced in preparing the specimen. Magnified 110 diameters. Fig. 50.—Branches of tubes of cell-containing network of the pig's liver. Magnified 110 diameters. Fig. 51.—A part of the most superficial portion of the tubular network of the lobule of the pig's liver. These tubes lie partly in the fibrous capsule itself, and partly, within the capsule. The tubes contain a few small cells, free oil globules, and granular matter. Partially injected. Magnified 110 diameters. Fig. 52.—Portion of cell-containing network from within the lobule of the pig's liver. Partially injected with Prussian blue. Magnified 110 diameters. Fig. 53.—A small portion of the network represented in fig. 51, distended with injection. Fig. 54.—Small branches of the portal vein with capillary network partly injected with vermilion. From the eel's liver. Magnified 110 diameters. Fig. 55.—Portion of the cell-containhig network from the liver of another eel which had been kept without food for some time. TIic oil globules are