57 SECrwETING STRUCTURE AND EFFERENT DUCT. the tubes at the superficial portion of the cell-containing network being continuous with small ducts which do not pass into the lobule. This point is well shown in fig. 33, taken from a drawing of the seal's liver, where two ducts in the upper part of the figure are seen to join the superficial part of the network, and another in the lower portion, is observed passing for a short distance amongst the tubes of the cell-containing network. One of these penetrating branches has been figured by Gerlach, and, as he very j astly observes, these branches are much narrower than the cells between which they lie, and hence concludes, very properly, that they cannot contain liver-cells. He supposes that they terminate by open mouths, into which the bile passes from narrow inter-spaces between the cells; but that this is not the case will presently be shown. In the pig, numerous fine branches having reached the surface of the capsule, perforate it, and are immediately connected with a dense network, forming the most superficial portion of the cell- containing network, and consisting of very fine ducts, the tubes of which often contain small cells, granular matter, and perhaps oil globules, but usually no cells of the ordinary size are to be found within them; and, in consequence, the diameter of the tubes is much less than at a greater distance within the lobule (fig. 51). When the Uver is very fatty, however, this part of the cell-containing network does contain cells filled with oil globules, as is shown in fig. 27, in which the very narrow ductal portion of the tube is seen to dilate considerably at the point where it contains liver-cells. The epithelial ceUs in the duct can often be traced quite up to the point which distinguishes the efferent duct from the secreting por- tion of the tube. This is well shown in fig. 27, which was taken with the camera from a preparation stiU in my possession; and which demonstrates these interesting points almost as clearly as when it was first mounted, upwards of two years since. The nar- row ducts, and the wide secreting tubes, both contain a very little injection; and, in consequence of their accidental isolation from adjacent parts of the network, their continuity is seen dis- tinctly. The delicacy and extreme narrowness of the ducts will readily explain tlie difficulty of demonstrating their continuity with the cell-containing network; for they almost invariably