59 DUCTS IN BlUDS, UEPTILES, AND FISHES. liver, taken from a thin and emaciated animal, in whicli the cells were much smaller than natural, and the diameter of the tubes much less than in a healthy state. In many situations the tubes contained only granular matter, and no cells could be distin- guished. Narrow granular lines communicating at intervals with each other, were seen sepai-ated by wide clear spaces (capillaries). The injection ran very readily, and in some places distended these tubes to the extent shown in fig. 33, and thus the clear capillary space was obliterated. In this specimen the very fine ducts were injected to a greater extent than can usually be effected; but even here I am persuaded that the injection has not entered into many of them. I believe it to be nearly impossible to inject all or even the greater number of the minute ducts; for by the pressure which those filled with injection must necessarily exert upon the adjacent ones, the latter become completely occluded, and no injection whatever can enter. Their extreme tenuity, and the number which lie in close apposition, preclude the possibility of demonstrating them in the uninjected state, except in a few rare instances by a peculiar method of preparation. Birds.—In the turkey, and also in the fowl, I have been able to trace the contiuuity of the ducts and cell-containing network in injected specimens. The abundance of epithelium in the ducts forms a great obstacle to perfect injection, and the excessive deli- cacy of the capillaries prevents the injection of much water with- out rupture. From this cause I failed in many attempts to obtain demonstrative preparations of the arrangement in the bird's liver. In the chick of the 15th day, and also in that of the 21st day, the continuity was clearly made out in some preparations which had been previously hardened in alcohol and soda. Reptiles,—In the newt I have traced the course of the ducts in an uninjected specimen, and have succeeded in making a good injection of the ducts of the adder, in which animal the continuity of the very narrow ducts, with the wide tubes containing the liver-cells, could be clearly traced. Fishes.—In the investigation of the anatomy of the ducts in the class of fishes, the greatest difficulties presented themselves, and very numerous were the failures which I met with in trying to inject them. The difficulty arose partly from the delicate