EXPLANATION OF THE FIGURES. xvii Magnified 150 diameters. Fi<^. 38.—One of the parietal sacculi magnified 110 diameters. The epithe- lial liutng is shown, and has been forced to the lower part of its cavity by the accumnlation of the injection. b. Wall of sacculus, extending a little beyond the outer coat of the duct. Fig. 39.—Interlobular ducts with branches to cell-containing network of the lobule, and a few parietal sacculi, from the human foetus about the ninth month. a. Cell-containing network of lobule. c. Anastomoses of some of the small branches of the duct as they lie in the fibrous coat of the larger one. Injected with Prussian blue. Magnified 20 diameters. Fig. 40.—A preparation, similar to the last, from the foetal calf, showing branches of duct passing to the secreting structure and parietal sacculi. Injected with Prussian blue. a. Part of ceU-containing network. c. Anastomoses between some of the finest branches of the duct. Magnified 20 diameters. Fig. 40a.—Interlobular ducts with fine branches to lobule from the human foetus. a. Anastomoses between finest branches. b. Cell-containing network of lobule. c. Sacculi and branches in the fibrous coats of the duct, opening into its cavity by a row of orifices on each side of the tube. d. Small branch of portal vein, surrounded by a few branches of the duct. Magnified 25 diameters. Fig. 41.—Thin section of a part of the margin of a lobule, with a portion of the interlobular fissure, from the liver of a man forty-three years of age. The liver cells have been rendered indistinct by the action of a weak solution of soda, in which this preparation had been hardened. a. The point where the ductal part of the tube becomes dilated into the secreting portion which contains the liver cells. 5. Section of portal capillary. c. Section of small artery. Magnified 160 diameters. Fig. 42.—A similar specimen from the same liver which has been much rattened in consequence of having been subjected to great pressure between the glasses. e. Epithelium within the finest branches of the duct. Magnified 150 diameters. Fig. 43.—Another preparation from the same liver, showing meshes of cell-containing network. ff. Portion of finest duct flattened from pressure.