43 DIAMKTEU OF THE TUBES OF THE NETWOUK. injected specimens. The cells of vvliieh the rows are composed for the most part form single lines, although here and there, where the tubes are wider than usual, two cells may be seen lying trans- versely across the tube. A well prepared specimen of this kind appears to me to prove the existence of the tubular network in the lobules of the liver, almost as distinctly as a good preparation of the kidney demonstrates the presence of long tortuous tubes in the cortical portion of that organ. In specimens in which these radiating tubes have been injected, not only has the existence of a basement membrane been proved, but one distinct from, and not adhering to, the walls of the capil- lary vessels. The meshes of the capillary network are slightly elongated towards the centre of the lobule, but it is obvious that such an arrangement could not alone account for the appearance observed; for if the cells lay promiscuously in the meshes of the capillaries, without being circumscribed by any basement mem- brane, the radiating lines would necessarily be connected trans- versely by numerous cells, forming a wide stratum, but they are only united by naiTow tubes containing a single row of cells. Some of these tubes from the human liver are represented in fig. 45, svhich was taken from an injected specimen. Diameter of the Tubes of the Network.—The contents of the cell-containing network are liable to considerable alteration in volume, a change which can be readily effected artificially. In the same specimen, the diameter of the network varies, but only to a very limited extent, according to the size and number of the cells within the basement membrane. It is usually about 1-lOOOtli of an inch in diameter in most mammalian animals, and is consider- ably wider than the narrowest part of the duets with which it is immediately continuous. The width of the spaces between the tubes of the network, or, in other words, the diameter of the vessels, varies much in differ- ent parts of the lobule of the human liver, being much wider at the portal surface of the lobule, where the small branches of the veins enter, than at a greater depth, where capillaries are alone found. This point is shown in a thin section from the lobule of the liver of the foetus, represented in fig. Gl. The photograph, however, is not so distinct as could be wished.