EXPLANATION OF THE FIGURES. Xll Magnified 42 diameters. subject, and in most mammalian animals, is shown in this figure. Di-awn with the neutral tint glass reflector. Magnified about 13 diameters. Fig. 4.—Portal vein, artery, and duct at the margin of a lobule of the human liver. A small branch of the vein is represented at a. The branch of the artery may be known by its much straighter course than the branches of the duct, which are seen to be very numerous in this figure. Magnified 20 diameters. Fig. 5.—Transverse section of a very small portal canal. a. Portal vein. b. Branch of duct, encircling the vein, and giving off branches. Between the vein and duct, a section of the artery is seen. Magnified 20 diameters. Fig. 6.—Very curious anastomosis between small branches of hepatic vein in the human liver, injected with lake. Small vessels are seen opening into the trunks upon all sides. Magnified about 35 diameters. Fig. 7.—Interlobular branches of artery partially encircling a lobule of pig's liver. Branches from either side are seen passing off to be distributed to adjacent lobules. Many of the small branches anastomose, and thus an arterial network is formed. At 5 a few of the portal capillaries are repre- sented, and several small branches of the artery are seen to open into them. Magnified 42 diameters. Fig. 8.—A small branch of the artery, showing a portion of the network formed by the anastomosis of many of the smallest branches. Fig. 9.—Two small branches of artery on either side of a branch of duct.— A network is formed upon its coats. Magnified 10 diameters. Fig. 10.—Interlobular branches of portal vein of the pig's liver. From either side are represented branches to the contiguous lobules which break up into the capillaries of the lobule ; the latter are only partially injected in this specimen. Magnified 42 diameters. Fig. 11.—Distribution of the duct upon the surface of a very small lobule of the pig's liver. a. Duct with little sacculi in its coats. h. Small branches of the duct, which are distributed upon the surface of the capsule. These are represented at least twice as wide as they ought to be. c. Interlobular branch of portal vein.