2 WINUTR ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. are taken into consideration. Some observers altogether object to observations made upon specimens which have under- gone previous preparation, forgetting that water often exerts a more powerful influence in altering the natural appearance of the structure than many of the fluids to the use of which they object. The alteration in the appearance of a structure effected by the refractive power of the medium in which it is immersed is often very greatj and must be taken into consideration in examining diff'erent textures. Thus, the same body presents a very diff'erent appearance when examined in air, water, syrup, oil, or Canada balsam, although neither of these media may have any chemical action on the substance immersed in them. Again, a delicate tubular membrane will entirely collapse in a limpid fluid like water, while in syrup or glycerine it would retain its original appearance. In the first case all tubular character would be lost, while in the second, it would remain distinct. In the present investigation it is important to consider these points. Hardening the Liver.—In order to show the minute ducts in an uninjected specimen, it is necessary to harden the liver. This hardening may be efl'ected by placing small pieces in syrup for some weeks, or in dilute alcohol to which a few drops of solution of soda have been added. Of the value of this last mixture I cannot speak too highly. No mode of preparation has afforded me such satisfactory specimens, not only of the liver, but of many other tissues, as the one referred to. The advantage of this solution seems to depend upon the opposite action of the two fluids. The alcohol precipitates albuminous compounds, and renders them hard and opaque. The soda, on the other hand, softens and dissolves them, rendering them transparent. In con- junction, these operate in rendering the tissue quite hard and transparent at the same time. I am still prosecuting experiments with this fluid. Large preparations have been preserved in the alkaline fluid with advantage. I have a beautiful preparation of the foetus, about the fourteenth week, showing the ossification of all the bones. The condition of those of the extremities is particularly interesting. All the textures are perfectly trans- parent, while the calcareous matter remains opaque. In this manner the portion of liver is made perfectly hard, but