MINUTE ANATOMY OP THE LIVEU. 62 parent (page 40). The quantity of this opitheUum in the smaller ducts varies very much; sometimes it completely lines the tube; in some instances it is so abundant as apparently to leave no distinct cavity in the duct (a condition I have met with in the rabbit, turkey, and fowl) ; while it is not uncommon to find some of the finest ducts, containing only a very few cells, scattered at irregular intervals over the basement membrane, of which the walls of the small ducts are entirely composed. In a perfectly normal condition, when the minute ducts are undisturbed by manipulation, and are examined in a proper medium, they are generally seen to be lined by epithelium; but, from the extreme minuteness of these ducts, and the tenuity of their walls, and not less from the very delicate nature of the epithelium itself, there is no wonder that we should fail in making out distinctly their epi- thelium in every instance in which we search for it. It is not easy to lay down with precision the exact point at which the change in the character of the epithelium of the ducts occurs ; but it appears to me that the alteration is a gradual one, and that the cells become shorter and shorter as the diameter of the ducts diminishes. In ducts of the l-600th of an inch, and in smaller ones, the epithelium presents the characters above described. It will be found that this ductal epithelium does not pass by insensible gradations into the secreting epithelium, or hepatic cellsj but ceases abruptly at the point where the narrow duct becomes continuous with the wide secreting cell-containing network. No- where, that I know of, can be seen, in so small a space, a more striking contrast between secreting epithelium, and that which lines an efferent canal. The large characteristic cell of glandular epithelium ceases at the point where the small cell of protective or ductal epithelium commences. The arrangement here referred to, is very similar to that which is met with in the gastric gland. It is only in the lower part (stomach tube) that the cells of spheroidal epithelium,—which alone there is every reason to believe take part in the secretion of the gastric juice,—are found. The upper portion or duct (stomach cell) is lined with columnar or subcolumnar epithelium.* In these glands the secreting cells are not arranged with any order or * Todd and Bowmau's Physiology.