MINUTE ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. 54 That the smallest biliary ducts^ are directly continuous with the tubular network of basement membrane in which the liver-cells lie; for, in favourable specimens, injection, forced in from the duct, will pass into every part of the tubular network, even quite to the centre of the lobule. It is possible to inject the capillary network in the same preparation as that in which the ducts and cell-containing network are injected. OF THE ULTIMATE RAMIFICATIONS OF THE DUCTS, AND OF THEIR CONNEXION WITH THE CELL-CONTAINING NETWORK. Anastomoses of the Ducts.—The anastomoses of the large trunks, and of the branches given oflP by the larger interlobular ducts, are more numerous than, from the observations of anato- mists, one would be led to suppose. These anastomoses, however, occur principally between the trunks, near their origin, as has been described; but, more rarely, different branches of the duct com- municate with each other near the point where they join the cell- containing network. In most animals the latter communications are very scarce. In injecting one branch of the duct the injection will often pass out from another. Kiernan observed, that, if the left duct were injected with size or mercury, the injection returned by the right duct. This probably depends upon the intimate communications between these ducts in the transverse fissure of the liver, rather than upon the existence of anastomoses between the small branches near their points of distribution. The anastomosis of small interlobular branches coming from opposite points, according to my observation, is veiy rare, as proved from the carefal examination of well-injected specimens of the livers of different animals. Indeed, I have only been able to satisfy myself of its existence in one instance. With regard to the communications of the larger trunks, and of the smaller branches, with the ducts from which they come off, it may be remarked, that not only do the right and left hepatic ducts anastomose, by the intervention of small, tortuous branches in the transverse fissure of the human liver, which form an intimate net- work, first described by Weber; but many of the branches Avhich * In the following pages the word " ducV is used to denote the tubes which carry off the secretion, in contradistinction to the secretory tubes, or " cell-containing network " in which the secretion is formed.