MINUTE ANATOMY OF THE LIVEU. 28 secretiMg structure of the liver, by tlie branches of the portal vein.* Diameter of the smallest Arterial Branches.—The meshes of the network which tlie smallest branches of the artery contribute to form, are many times wider than those of the venous capillaries in the lobule, fig. 7; but the diameter of the small vessels of which this network is composed is very much less than that of the portal capillaries. I have measured the diameter of the smallest arterial branches in the pig and in the human subject. The average measurements were as follow; but these numbers must be con- sidered rather as approximations to the truth, than as absolutely correct, because it is impossible to ascertain to what degree the vessels have been distended by the injection:— Pia. Human. Smallest branches of artery ... l-4000th of an in. l-4000th of an m. Venous capillaries of lobule ... l-1600th „ l-1300th „ Small ducts on surface oflobule l-1600th „ l-1800th „ Finest portions of duct l-2500th „ l-1800th „ Injection of the Venous Capillaries of the Lobule from the Artery.—That the capillaries of the lobule can be injected from the artery necessarily follows from the nature of the arrangement just described. In this way, Lieberkiihn injected the lobules as well as from the portal or hepatic veins. As a general rule, the injection appears first qviite at the portal surface of the lobule, and gradually extends towards the centre; but sometimes the central capillaries are injected from the artery very readily, while the marginal capillaries are quite free from injection. This has occurred to me both in the human subject and also in the pig; but it was confined to certain small portions of the liver, while in the greater part of the organ, small arteries could be readily traced into the marginal capillaries. In the situations referred to, the branches of the portal vein were very imperfectly injected, and the capillaries did not contain any injection, in consequence, probably, of being filled with fluid previous to injection, while the central capillaries were empty. The explanation of this circum- stance I imagine to be this—that the injection having found its way by one channel into these central capillary vessels, gradually * Op. Cit. p. 748.