MINUTE ANATOMY OF TUK LIVKR. 4 very first specimen T tried, the gall bladder filled with bile soon after the injection of the portal vein had been comraenced, and bile also escaped from the common duct. After a short time, almost pure water ran out from the duct. The water was allowed to escape from the vessels, and then the liver placed in cloths to soak up the water with which it was saturated. The duct, after the lapse of a few hours, was injected. I have examined the water which escaped from the duct upon several occasions. It always contained a large quantity of cylindrical epithelium, and sometimes circular cells from the small ducts were found; but I have never met with specimens of liver-cells, which is easily accounted for, when we consider the small calibre of the smallest ducts. In rare instances these are, no doubt, much larger than natural, in which case the entrance of the hepatic cells would not be prevented. I see, therefore, no reason to doubt the accuracy of Mr. Wharton Jones's observation, although I am unable to confirm it from actual observation. The injection passed into the ducts very readily and with slight force; and could be seen entering the lobules upon the external surface. It did not appear gradually round the circumference of the lobule, as is the case when the portal vein is injected, but it formed small roundish points, to the unaided eye, almost like little extravasations, here and there at the outside of the lobules; and it then spread for a short distance towards the central part. Upon examining a small piece with the microscope, the small ducts were well seen, and it was evident that they not only went up to the lobules, but that they penetrated into their substance. Transparent Injections.—Although the injection evidently had not extravasated, the outline of the network was not distinct, and upon examining thin sections with a quarter, only a confused appearance was visible, and I was unable to demonstrate the rela- tion of the cells to the ducts and to the vessels. Before 1 could hope to make out this point, it was clearly necessary not only to in- ject the ducts, but to inject them in such a manner that they would bear examination with the higher powers (at least a quarter). After trying unsuccessfully many opaque injections, it occurred to me that a transparent injection might succeed better. Gamboge, Carmine, Cochineal, Lake, and some otlier colouring matters were