MINUTE ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. 40 and-twenty years ago. The majority of modern writers have arrived at a totally opposite conclusion, and deny the existence of such a membrane. EVIDENCE OP THE EXISTENCE OF A TUBULAR BASEMENT MEMBRANE WITHIN WHICH THE LIVER-CELLS ARE CONTAINED. It is not uncommon to find cells with shreds of delicate mem- brane attached to them in specimens which have been slightly hardened in dilute alcohol. In fig. 33a are represented two cells from the rabbit's liver, enclosed in a membrane which can be traced in the interval between them as a very narrow contracted tube. From time to time, upon carefully examining the edge of a thin section of liver, small portions of the network are seen to project, but it is impossible to demonstrate the existence of abase- ment membrane when the preparation is examined in water or spirit. In sections which have been mounted in glycerine a dis- tinct tubular membrane can often be seen. I have observed the same point in several preparations, but have been unable to pre- serve the specimens. The extreme thinness and delicate nature of this membrane will readily account for the difficulty of display- ing it, and it must be borne in mind, that, in the majority of specimens examined in the ordinary manner, it is impossible to see even the walls of the capillaries, which are so very mucb thicker and firmer than the membrane alluded to. The difficulty of demonstrating such a membrane seems to me but a very insuflBcient argument against its existence; and even if it were quite impossible to see it, it would hardly be right to conclude that it was absent upon these grounds alone, for it is obviously possible for such a membrane to exist, and to be at the same time quite invisible, unless rendered more or less opaque by some peculiar mode of preparation. Fusion of the contents of the Membrane.—This delicate base- ment membrane is well displayed in certain specimens in which a curious chemical change has taken place in the contents of the tube. In a section of dog's liver, which had been soaking for some time in a weak solution of soda, the outer portion of most of the cells appeared to have been dissolved, and, in consequence, a