EXPLANATION OF THE EIGURES. xiii Fig. 12—Interlobular branches of vein, artery, and duct of pig's liver. a. Portal vein, injected with chromate of lead. b. Hepatic duct, injected with Prussian blue. c. Artery, injected with vermilion. d. SraaU branch of the duct, which passes through the capsule of the lobule, to be distributed in the interior. Magnified 35 diameters. Fig. 13.—Interlobular branches of the artery and duct of the pig's liver. e. Artery, injected with vermilion. /. Duct, injected with Prussian blue. Magnified 15 diameters. Fig. 14.—Distribution of interlobular ducts to several adjacent lobules upon the surface of pig's liver, the margins of which are shown by dotted lines. At g, and in several other points of the preparation, the injection has passed into the cell-containing network of the lobule, in consequence of which the confused appearance, represented in the drawing, results. Magnified about 16 diameters. Fig. 15.—Ducts with vasa aberrantia, injected with Prussian blue, from the transverse fissure of the human liver. Natural size. Figs. 16, 17.—Ducts and vasa aberrantia from the transverse fissure of the human liver. Half the natural size. Fig. 18.—DUated portion of a duct, also from the transverse fissure, giving oflf long straight branches, which pass off to the secreting structure. The irregularity of outline of some of the larger branches of the duct in this situation is shown at c. Magnified 8 diameters. Fig. 19.—A part of fig. 16, magnified 4 diameters. The irregular branches of the vasa aberrantia are seen in this figure anastomosing freely with each othei-, and forming a lax network ; at e, the trunk gives oflT a smaller branch. Branches are observed coming ofi" from aU parts of the circumference of the larger ducts in this situation. Fig. 20.—Interlobular duct with lateral appendages and irregular branched ducts, or vasa aberrantia. The greater number of tlie lateral channels do not project beyond the outer surface of the fibrous coat of the duct a. In the human liver the orifices of these channels form a straight line on opposite sides of the ducts. b. A smaller branch with numerous sacculi not projecting beyond the fibrous coat; as this branch becomes narrower and less sacculated its coat is seen to become much thinner. Figs. 21, 22, 23.—Portions of interlobular ducts.