48 MINUTE ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. a lax network with very long meshes, or perhaps the specimen might be more correctly described as being composed of parallel tubes, communicating with each other here and there. Now, how can the evidently cylindrical lines of oil globules, depicted in fig. 55, lie in the meshes of this vascular network, unless they be contained within a tube of basement membrane ? Of the accuracy of the facts there can be no doubt, and the preparations from which the drawings were made may yet be compared with each other. The only interpretation I can offer is that which I have just advanced, and it seems impossible to associate the two appearances as they exist in nature in any other manner. In a large number of animals, then, the contents of the tubular network may be said to be continuous; in some it is interrupted so as to form masses irregular in size, in which nuclei are scattered at intervals; and in others, the particles are more uniform in size, resemble each other very closely in general character, and each contains a separate nucleus. Between the numerous, well-defined, and separate masses, or liver-cells of the mammalian animal on the one hand, and the continuous mass which occupies the tubular network of the fish on the other, it is easy to demonstrate every intervening shade of difference; and more than this, at different periods of development of the embryo, and in various morbid con- ditions of the human liver, every degree of separation and of continuity may be observed. Again: by the action of vai'ious chemical reagents, as described in page 40, the distinct and separate cells of the healthy mammalian liver may be made to fuse, as it were, so as to form continuous masses, like those occupy- ing the tubular network of fishes. In all cases there is room for fluid to pass between the contents of the tube and its walls towards the duct, as may be proved by the passage of injection; and, although to our observation the tubes may appear to be quite full, or even distended, it is obvious that, independent of any change of size in the cells themselves, a very slight diminution in the quantity of blood in the capillaries of the liver would permit the free passage of fluid along these appa- rently distended tubes. The facts I have stated tend to lead to the conclusion, that the