68 MINUTE ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. dually increases as the bile passes slowly along the thin-walled, tortuous ducts. It is this change which serves to explain the com- paratively slight increase of diameter of the ducts, in proportion to the great number of branches which they receive. Thus the apparent disproportion between the vast amount of secreting structure and the small efferent ducts, vanishes, when we consider how highly concentrated the bile becomes before it reaches the large duct. Bile contains a larger proportion of soluble con- stituents than any other liquid secretion. The manner in which this concentration is effected has been alluded to. In those animals provided with a gall-bladder, it has been shown experimentally by Bidder and Schmidt that much fluid is absorbed while the bile remains within this viscus. It is interesting to observe, that the arrangement of vessels and lymphatics in the portal canals and transverse fissure of the liver, is similar to that whicli is met with in the gall-bladder. The bile is brought into very close relation with the vessels, by entering the little cavities, pmnetal sacculi, in the coats of the ducts, and in the vasa aberrantia, which are always surrounded by numerous branches of the vein and artery, and by lymphatic vessels. In some instances the inspissation of the bile is carried to an abnormal extent, and small, tolerably hard granules of biliary matter are eventually produced. These often form the nuclei of gall-stones, and sometimes accumulate in great numbers in a branch of the duct. Although a calculus might become impacted in a duct, the free transmission of the bUe is fully provided for by the numerous anastomosing branches, just external to the duct itself, which have been described in Chapter III, The Verteb7'ate and Invertebrate Liver compared.—It has been remarked by many writers, that there is a great difference of structure between the livers of the vertebrata and the invertebrata; but the more carefully the vertebrate liver is examined in its minute details, the stronger becomes the evidence that both resemble each other in many essential particulars. Nay, in some of the lowest of the invertebrata, the general minute anatomy of the liver closely accords with that of the organ in the highest animals. In the large intestine of the common frog, a small entozoon of the Trematode order is very often met with. In some of these, which