41 BASEMENT iNIEMBRANE OF TUBES. fusion of their substance had taken place, causing the formation of a highly refracting mass within the basement membrane, the out- line of which was rendered very distinct. The appearance of this preparation is represented in fig. 58, and at c is shown one of the tubes separated and drawn out, with its contents contracted within it, so that the outline of the membrane itself can be distinctly seen. In fig. 66, h, a somewhat similar change is shown in the liver of a flounder which had been treated with soda, and afterwards by acetic acid, causing the precipitation of some of the constituents of the bile, which had been previously dissolved by the soda. By pressure, some of these highly refractive masses were broken, and by examination with a very dull light the continuity of the delicate basement membrane could be traced between them. When certain specimens of liver have been soaked for some time in strong syrup or glycerine, the cells in the interior of the tubes shrink from exos- mose, and the delicate tubular membrane contracts upon its con- tents. The tubes, therefore, become much narrower, and, except in the highly refracting nature of their contents, the altered cell- containing network closely resembles the capillary network. Such an alteration, as it occurred in a very thin section of pig's liver, is represented in fig. 49. Capillaries displayed in one section, and Tubular Network in - another section, from the same Liver.—In a properly prepared liver it is often possible to demonstrate the cell-containing net- work in one section, and the capillary network in another. When the vessels are distended with clear size, the meshes of the cell-containing network are seen; but if a section be well washed and placed in glycerine, the sharp, well-defined outlines of the capillary vessels are brought into view. In such a section, from which the cells have been removed, I have seen, in some places just at the thin edge of the specimen, stretched across the space between two capillary vessels, the exceedingly delicate basement membrane of the tube in which the liver-cells lie, recognizable rather from the small quantity of debris and granular matter which adheres to it, than from any positive characters distinguishable in the membrane itself. This appearance can only be seen under the influence of a very dull light. I have one preparation pre-