MINUTE ANATOMY Ob" THE LIVEU. 60 nature of the vessels, wliicli very frequently were torn in inject- ing tliem with water, and partly from the soft, pulpy, and exceed- ingly fatty condition of most of the livers of this class of animals. In the flounder the connexion is shown in fig. 66, b c and e. The secreting tubes represented are much smaller than is usual in this class, depending principally upon exosmose of their fluid contents, owing to which the tube shrinks, and its outline is clearly distinguished. I have succeeded in injecting the ducts of the sturgeon and frog-fish, and the connexion between the very narrow ducts and the cell network is represented in fig. 64, a c, and in fig. 65, g h k. Even in the fatty liver of the cod I once traced the continuity of the narrow ducts, with the very wide tubular network dis- tended with cells containing oil and free oil globules. In injecting the livers of fish, the injection must be diluted with weak spirit, or it does not penetrate to the smallest branches. The colouring matter which is employed is the same as in other cases. Often the particles of the injection accumulate in some of the finer ducts, forming what appears to be rounded and slightly dilated extremities; for the further continuity of the tube cannot be detected. Indeed, so perfect is the resemblance, that it is only by carefully examining many diff'erent specimens that one becomes convinced of its fallacy. In all four classes of vertebrate animals, the arrangement of the ducts, and the relation which they bear to the secreting cells, is very similar. I have seen both in injected, and also in uninjected specimens, the communications between the finest ducts and the cell-containing network. Of the nature of this continuity there can, I think, be no doubt. I can conceive no other explanation of the facts I have observed, or of the appearances presented by my preparations. The observations upon uninjected specimens, shown in figs. 41, 42, and 43, were made early in 1854, many months before I had succeeded in injecting the ducts. The arrange- ment of the most minute ducts varies somewhat in diflferent animals, as has been described. In some they form a network of very narrow tubes, continuous with those in which the liver- cells are contained; in others, these communications arc exces-