7 PKEPAKATION OK TlllC INJKCTION. rupture. The great advantage of the Prussian blue arises from the circumstance that the precipitate is so fine as to appear like a solution; but still the minute pai-ticles cannot be made to pass through the basement membrane of the ducts. The addition of glycerine to this fluid causes it to flow better. The following is the composition of the injecting fluid which I have been lately iu the habit of using. It is well adapted for all ordinary purposes of injection. It is used cold, and it does not run out from the openings of the divided vessels when a thin section is made—a disadvantage from which few injecting fluids which can be used cold are free. Glycerine .... .... .... ... ••• 1 oz. Wood Naphtha 14 drachm. Spirits of Wine 1 oz. Water 4 oz. Ferrocyanide of Potassium ... ... .-• ... 12 grs. Tincture of Sesquichloride of Iron* 1 drachm. The Ferrocyanide of Potassium is to be dissolved in an ounce of the water, and the Tincture of Sesquichloride of Iron added to another ounce. These solutions are to be mixed very gradually, and well shaken in a bottle, the ii'on being added to the Ferro- cyanide of Potassium. When thoroughly mixed these solutions should produce a dark-blue mixture, in which no precipitate or flocculi are observable. The naphtha is to be mixed with the spirit; and the glycerine, and the remaining two ounces of the water added. It is important to mix the solutions in the above order, for otherwise a dense pre- cipitate and free flocculi which will not run well are formed. Lastly, the colourless fluid is to be mixed gradually with the Prussian blue, the whole being well agitated in a large bottle during the admixtui'e. Injection of the Portal Vein and Hepatic Artery ivith plain Size. —After the duct has been injected in the manner above referred to, the liver is placed in warm water, and when it has become warm through the portal vein and hepatic artery are to be injected with fine size. If the injection of the duct has been well conducted, • The Tiuct. Ferri Sesquichlor. of the London Pharmacopoeia, commonly known as Muriated Tincture of Iron, is recommended because it is a solution of a persalt of Iron, which can always be readily obtained of uniform strength.