MlNUTIi ANATOMY OF THE LIVKIi. 14 Lobules of the Ply's Liver.—A lobule contains all the elements of the liver. The entire organ is a collection of lobules. Every lobule may be regarded as an elementary liver. The small liver of the mouse differs from the large liver of the elephant in a certain degree with respect to the size of the lobules^ but enormously with regard to their number. Now, the lobule is most perfectly seen in the pig's liver, and also in that of the polar bear, according to Miiller, and in that of the Octodon Cummingii (one of the Rodents), according to the observations of Hyrtl; and these livers, in their anatomical arrangement, differ vastly from those of other animals with which I am acquainted, as regards the separation of the lobules from each other. With care, a portion of the liver of the pig may be separated into a number of small roundish masses, like very small peas. Each is invested with a firm, fibrous membrane of its own; and, if it be pressed strongly, it bursts, and its contents may be squeezed out. Upon the surface of this lobule ramify small twigs of the portal vein, hepatic artery, and hepatic duct; many branches from these perforate the capsule at various points, and are distri- buted in the interior of the lobule. The capsule of the lobule is composed of a variety of fibrous tissue. The fibres are exceedingly delicate, and so arranged as to surround small apertures, through which branches of the vessels and duct pass to the interior. The capsules of adjacent lobules are connected together by the branches of these vessels, and, in many instances, by a small quantity of fibrous tissue. Many observers describe the lobules of the pig's liver as being surrounded with an expansion of the capsule of Glisson, an arrangement which is sanctioned by KoUiker, who considers that the fibrous material forms partitions between the lobules instead of forming a distinct and separate capsule to each lobule. If a piece of fresh pig's liver be injected with alcohol, to which a few drops of a solution of soda have been added, from the portal vein, and then the whole soaked in the same solution for a few days until it has become hard, the lobules can be readily separated in the manner above described. In very thin sections, from well prepared specimens in which the vessels have been injected, the separate outlines of the capsules of adjacent lobules may be dis-