ARRANGEMENT OF CELLS WITHIN TUBES. 49 liver-cell is rather to be regarded as a collection of viscid matter round a central nucleus, than a true cell provided with a distinct cell wall. There are many circumstances in favour of such a view, but I shall not now bring these forward, neither shall 1 attempt to offer a positive opinion on the matter until some observations I am making are completed. I may, ho^yever, be permitted to observe that, although such a conclusion would be altogether at variance with the results of the observations of almost all previous observers,—and if true of the liver-cell, must also be true of the cells of renal epithelium, and of those of some other glands,—it would be, in some measure, in accordance with a view upon the nature of cells lately advocated by Professor Huxley.* Of the manner in which the Cells are arranged within the Tubu- lar Membrane.—In the livers of adult mammalia which I have examined, the cells for the most part lie in a single row, although, as before observed, some portions of the network have been found to contain two or three rows lying across the tube, while in other situations the space within the tubular membrane is so contracted as not to admit one cell of the ordinary size, in which case it is occupied only by granular matter, and a viscid material which refracts highly. The following mammalian livers have been examined with reference to this point,—that of the human sub- ject, pig, dog, cat, rat, rabbit, horse, seal, and some others. I have never seen such an appearance as has been delineated by Leidy, who has represented three cells lying across the tube; nor have I observed anything agreeing with the description or drawings of LerebouUet, who figui-es two rows of cells, and represents a mass of injection passing between them. My own observations lead me to conclude that the cells lie somewhat irregularly, as above described, and differ totally in their arrange- ment from that of the renal tubes, where there is a central cavit3\ Bile would escape from the cells, and pass probably in an irregular manner, sometimes on one side of the tube, sometimes on the other, between the cell and the wall of the tube ;—at least this is the way in which injection can be made to pass in the direction opposite to that in which the bile flows naturally. • The Cell Theory, by T. H. Huxley, F.R.S., Medico-Chirurgical Reviexo, October, 1853.