23 CAUSE OF MAPPING OUT OF LOBULES. ducts passing to the lobules are few in number, and have a short and simple course. In the frog and newt, and in the class of fishes generally, the markings are very indistinct, and there is no regular arrangement of small ducts round portions of hepatic tissue similar to that which exists in mammalia. In the uninjected state, and without previous preparation, these small ducts are so stretched and torn by manipulation that it is quite impossible to distinguish the striated appearance which is produced from ordi- nary fibrous tissue. The lines between the diflPerent lobules of the human and other livers, seen by the unaided eye, are, in the majority of cases, due to a difference between the cells at the sur- face of the lobule close to the ducts, and those in the interior. In the former situation fhe cells often contain many oil globules, which are white by reflected light, and appear like a distinct line of separation, while in the latter they frequently contain colouring matter alone. The small ducts which have been referred to in the last para- graph have been represented in figs. 3, 4, and 5. Although nume- rous branches have been successfully injected in the preparations from which these drawings have been taken, I feel convinced that, from an examination of such specimens alone, a very imperfect idea can be formed of the vast number of these finest ducts exist- ing in the interlobular fissures of a healthy liver. In the human foetus, the separations into lobules are very dis- tinctly marked, but the appearance is not due to the presence of a fibrous capsule, or to the existence of a large quantity of fibrous tissue; for in a well prepared specimen every portion of space between one of the lobules, or spaces mapped out, and its neigh- bour's, can be seen to be occupied with branches of the vein, artery, and duct, which may be injected. In such a preparation the complete absence of any structure like fibrous tissue, is very remarkable. The mapping-out is really produced by the different appear- ance of the little elementary portions of liver which are made up of the secreting elements of the gland, which are more or less coloured, and the intervals between these, in which there are no liver-cells, and which arc colourless or nearly so. In these intervals the portal vessels and duct reach the circumference of the lobule