19 glisson's capsule. nation of well-prepared moist specimens ^vith glasses which magnify about 40 diameters. By their mode of ramification the smaller portal vessels more or less imperfectly enclose little spaces, which vary somewhat in form in different animals, and according to the manner in which the section is made. In the majority of animals the secreting structure and capil- laries forming the substance of one lobule, communicate with those of the adjacent ones in the intervals between the channels by which the branches of the vessels reach the lobules. In the pig the complete isolation is dependent partly upon the disposition of the small vessels, but principally upon the presence of the fibrous capsule described in page 14. Branches of vessels which ramify in the portal canals are conducted into the spaces between the lobules, the interlobular fissures, and thus reach the margin of the lobules. The triangular interval left by the approximation of three lobules was termed by Mr. Kiernan the interlobular space. , glisson's capsule. This structure since the time of its discoverer, has been- described as a most important and essential constituent of the liver. Continuous with the proper capsule of the organ exter- nally, it is said not only to form a sheath for the large vessels as they lie in the portal canals, but to be prolonged with them into the ultimate parts of the gland, and even to form, for each lobul(3 a proper investment, or, as others have described it, a partition between contiguous lobules. It is an important point to ascertain if the arrangement of this- areolar tissue in the liver differs in any very essential particulars from that of other glandular organs. Mr. Kiernan showed that, in the smaller portal canals, Glis- son's capsule did not completely invest the vessels, but was only to be found upon that side of the vein on which the duct and artery were situated. Most anatomists have failed to demonstrate a trace of areolar tissue within the lobules of the liver. Occasionally, a few fibres: of a structm-e like fibrous tissue may, undoubtedly, be observed in uninjected specimens ; but such an appearance is produced by physical alterations of the structures in the lobule, in the prepara- c 2