EXPLANATION OF TlJE FIGUllES. xi tained the tubes of the cell-containing network. A part of the capillary network is isolated at h, and a portion of the cell-containing network at c. As the portal capillaries converge towards the central part of the lobule, the meshes of the network become elongated, as shown at /, and at length tlie capillary vessels open directly into the small intrcdolular vein e, which carries the blood away from the lobules. Numerous branches of the arteiy may be traced ou the left of the figure pursuhig a somewhat tortuous course amongst the other vessels at the circumference of the lobule, and with care a few small branches may be followed which open at length into the portal capillaries near the margin of the lobule, as shown at g. It will be observed that the diameter of the smallest arterial branches is considerably less than that of the venous capillaries into which they open. The branches of the duct may be known by their epithelial lining, and may be followed amongst the divisions of the other vessels passing into the lobule. The very narrow ducts are seen to be con- tinuous with the tubular network in which the liver cells Ue. The direct continuity of the narrow efferent duct with the wide secreting tubular net- work which contains the liver cells is shown at c and in other situations. At / a distinct interval is seen between the walls of the capillaries and the deli- cate membrane composing the tubes of the cell-containing network, the meshes of which, like those of the capillaries, become much elongated in this part of the lobule. The liver cells situated near the margin of the lobule contain many oil globules, which are not visible in those occupying a more central position. This drawing is to be regarded as a plan which embodies the results of actual observations made upon many different specimens. It is supposed to be magnified about 120 diameters. Fig. 2.—Part of surface of an injected human liver, showing the manner in which the vessels are distributed. The duct is not represented. a. Artery, injected with vermilion, of which only two small branches are represented. h. Branches of the portal vein, injected with white lead. c. Branches of the hepatic vein, injected with lake. The manner in which the portal vein, artery, and d^lct alternate with branches of the hepatic vein is well seen. In the upper part of the figure, at d, part of the capillary network of a lobule is represented. The two small white vessels are branches of the artery, which are seen to open into the capillaries near the portal surface of the lobule. The drawing was made with the aid of the neutral tint glass reflector. Magnified about 16 diameters. Fig. 3.—Thin section of several lobules of the human liver, showing the general arrangement of the ducts and branches of the portal vein, as they lie in the interlobular fissures. a. Branches of the portal vein, injected with white lead. h. Small branches of iiUralolvkir vein, injected with lake. At c some of the capillaries of the lobule are represented. d. Branches of the duct, injected with Prussian blue, ramifying in the interlobular fissures, and giving off but few branches in their course towards the lobules. The imperfect manner in which the lobules are mapped out in the human