PARIETAL SACCULI. 31 to ducts which had been injected with vermilion. Some very large branched sacculi are represented at b; and at a, a small duct, the walls of which are very thin, without sacculi in its coats. In the human subject a somewhat different arrangement occurs. Instead of being situated entirely round the tube, the openings form two rows or lines, situated upon opposite sides of the ducts. The greater number of these openings are, however, the orifices, not of sacculi, like those in the pig, but of small irregular tubes, which run obliquely for some distance in the coats of the duct, and anastomose with each other (figs. 30, 21, 23, 33). Some of these branches leave the ducts, and anastomose just outside the trunk from which they are given off. Many of the small ducts, about the l-80th of an inch in diame- ter, have numerous ccecal pouches connected with them, arranged pretty close together, gradually becoming shorter as the duct becomes smaller (figs. 30, 23, b). The branches springing from these ducts are composed of basement membrane ordy. Vasa Aberrantia.—Irregular duets with coecal pouches are very numerous in the transverse fissure of the liver, where they form an intimate network connected with the larger branches of the duct in this situation. These were described by Theile as branching miicous glands, but were first noticed and named vasa aberrantia by Weber. Not only are the right and left hepatic ducts in the transverse fissure of the liver connected by vasa aber- rantia, as Weber was the first to point out, but the anastomosing ducts in this situation are so numerous, that they form a network, which, in well-injected specimens, presents a very beautiful appearance (figs. 15, to 19, and fig. 25). Through the interven- tion of such branches, all the trunks in the transverse fissure communicate with each other. In the larger portal canals, I have demonstrated the existence of numerous ducts of a similar character. In figs. 19 and 35, some of these beautiful ducts, with their numerous follicular appendages, from the transverse fissure, and at b (figs. 30 and 33) from portal canals, are represented. Some observers, and, lately, Lereboullet, * have altogether failed to demonstrate these curious networks. In every mo- * Mem. 8ur la structure intime du foie et sur la. nature de I'altoratiou connue sous le nom du foie gras. Paris, 1853.