•21 VKSSELS, ETC., MISTAKKN FOR FllUiOUS TISSUK. vabbit's liver with plain size. The whole organ becomes trans- parent, and the course of the small distended veins can be most readily traced. In this animal the capillaries of the liver are large, and injection runs into them very readily. One cannot fail to be struck by the almost total absence of anything which can be described as Glisson's capsulfe, or fibrous tissue, in this beautiful liver. A little condensed areolar tissue is seen only around the largest veins, and external to this ramifies an abundant plexus of lymphatics. All the vessels are clear and well-defined. The artery can be readily separated from the portal vein, and neither it nor the duct are bound up with the vein in a fibrous sheath. The larger ducts can be readily distinguished from the other vessels, and their small branches, if not injected, can be traced for a long distance by the characteristic epithelium in their interior. In the smaller portal canals the veins and ducts are entirely destitute of any external coat, but their course may, nevertheless, be traced very distinctly. When the ducts of a liver (human, rabbit, seal, and other animals,) have been injected with Prussian blue, and the portal vein distended with plain size, a transverse section of a portal canal exhibits no structures but the distended veins and ducts, with branches of the artery. The external coat of the large vein is well seen, and consists of a thin layer of condensed areolar tissue ; but the duct and artery are not invested with it. In the small portal canals the vein is quite destitute of this external coat, and it lies in immediate contact with the basement membrane of the peripheral portion of the cell-containing network, or with that of the finest ducts, which often form a plexus around it. In fig. 29, which represents a transverse section of a portal canal of the seal's liver, the smaller ducts, of which a few branches only are very imperfectly injected, /, are seen passing round the artery, e, and portal vein, a small branch of which is shown at d. These small ducts in many preparations seem to enclose the artery and duct, as it were, in a sheath, connected with the coat of the portal vein, but the real nature of this apparent connecting sheath is clearly shown in the preparation from which the drawing was taken. The difficulty of deciding positively upon this point, however,