70 MINUTE ANATOMY OF THE HVEIi. wliich this is effected. At the closed extremity of the tube is a special provision for the separation of water, which, as it passes down the central cavity, readily dissolves away the soluble matters which the cells have separated from the blood. The solution passes down the tube, and without undergoing any further change, is very soon removed altogether. So very important is the rapid removal of the urinary constituents from the organism, that in those animals in which a sufficient quantity of water for their com- plete solution cannot be afforded, there exists a most perfect and beautiful arrangement by which this object is attained, but in a totally different manner. Not only is there a ca^dty throughout the entire length of the tube, but the cells around it are furnished with vibratile cilia, by the action of which even solid particles are Avhirled down the tube with a velocity greater than that of the cir- culation of the blood in the capillaries. In the liver, on the other hand, we have an organ not only for the separation of substances very recently introduced into the organism from the portal blood, but for the slow elaboration and conversion of these into very different products which serve important ulterior piu'poses in the economy, and which are princi- pally re-absorbed into the blood, while at the same time, it is pro- bable that a change occurs in other constituents of the blood in its passage through the liver. A network of dehcate tubes containing large secreting cells in their interior, arranged irregularly and nearly fiUing the cavity, without leaving any well-defined channel for the passage of the secretion, is the essential apparatus for the formation of the proper secretion of the liver. The secretion, when formed, may remain for some time in the tubes, but slowly makes its way in an opposite direction to that in which the blood flows, tlirough very narrow channels, either between the cells themselves, or between these and the walls of the tube, until it arrives at the narrow tubvdar duct. Still passing slowly along these delicate tubes, it becomes exposed to the influence of arterial blood, whUe much of its water, probably holding in solution substances capable of permeating the basement membrane in this direction, is re- absorbed by the veins and lymphatics, which form an intimate plexus round the ducts. It has been shown how effectual is the provision for the concentration of the bile throughout every pai-l