63 DR. IIANDFIP:LD JONES' OBSKUVATION8. regularity round the basement membrane of the tube, as is the case in the kidney; but appear, in the ordinary state of the parts, almost to fill its cavity, so that the secretion, having escaped from the cells, must pass off by the slight interstices which exist between them and the membranous wall of the tube. As I have before observed, the same irregularity occurs in the arrangement of the secreting cells in the tubes of the liver, and also, but in a less remarkable degree, in the secreting portion of many other glands, as the pancreas, the lacteal glands, and sweat glands. In a few instances I have seen tubes containing liver-cells apparently lined with the delicate epithelium of the ducts, an observation which would tend to confirm those of Mr. Wharton Jones, who has seen liver-cells in the smaller ducts. It is probable that in these cases the cells have entered the ductal portion of the tube accidentally. The tubes in the eases referred to, however, were uninjected, and therefore I am not disposed to lay much stress upon the observation. The epithelium of the small ducts presents much the same character in all the animals which I have examined. In figs. 42 and 43, g, the characters of the epithelium in the more minute ducts of the human subject are represented. In the eat it is shown in fig. 35 ; and in fig. 34, in the lamb. In the latter figure an oppor- tunity is afforded for contrasting the characters and size of these small granular cells with the large hepatic cells. Dr. Handfield Jones' Observations.—jVTy friend. Dr. Handfield Jones, has arrived at a totally different conclusion with reference to the nature of the smallest ducts, and the epithelium which is contained within them. The latter he regards rather in the light of nuclei, " which are set close together in a subgranular or homo- geneous basic substance and to these nuclei he assigns the im- portant office of absorbing the material which is secreted by the liver-cells, and which he considers bathes the terminal extremities of the ducts in which this epithelium is contained, or with which it is in direct continuity. Dr. Handfield Jones also observes, that there is seldom any trace of basement membrane to be found in ducts having epithelium of this character, and, he considers that, the basement membrane imperceptibly ceasing, the ducts termi- nate in this epithelium. Upon such a view, however, I should be