15 LOBULES OF THE PIG'S LIVER. tinctly seen; there is an interval between them in wliich the vessels lie. I have one or two preparations in which this point is distinctly seen, figs. 11 and 14. At one particular spot, and here only, a small twig of the hepatic vein perforates the capsule, and receives on all sides the capillaries from the interior of the lobule, which converge towards this small central or intralobular vein. If the hepatic vein be injected, and the lobules separated from each other to a great extent, but left attached to the small branches of the vein, they would seem to be arranged upon the terminal branches of the vein, almost like leaves upon their leafstalk. In attempting partially or completely to isolate the lobules from each other^ the branches of vessels distributed upon their surface are, of course, much torn, since, in all instances, the vessels conducted to the lobules in the portal canals [portal vein, hepatic artery, and hepatic duct) are interlobular, that is, run between the lobules, and give oflP branches to those among which they pass, as they pursue a somewhat tor- tuous and irregular course. Such is the anatomical arrangement and connexion with each other of the small circumscribed portions of hepatic tissue of the liver of the pig and polar bear. The entire organ is built up of a number of elementary masses connected with each other, not by continuity of the capillary vessels, or of the secreting structure of the lobule, but only by the vessels for their supply, and by a little areolar tissue in which these vessels ramify. This separation into lobules serves to give a certain com- pactness to the entire organ as a whole, while at the same time it allows great alteration in volume, and a certain mobility between each of its elementary parts. This arrangement in the pig's liver would permit a certain amount of separation and movement upon each other of the different lobules, while it would also have the effect of preventing undue engorgement and distension of any—a provision which, from the habits of the pig, seems needed more than in the case of any other animal. A pig's liver will easily contain a quantity of water equal to its own weight, which may be injected from the portal vein; and its lateral and antero-postcrior dimensions will be increased as much as two inches each way; while, although, by using great force, almost as much fluid may be forced into the