47 CONTENTS OF NETWORK IN KISHBS. still seen to form a thin compressed layer. The cells arc ronndcd, oval, or polyhedral in form, and frequently present many irregular angles, with somewhat rounded edges. Not unfrequently the appearance is such as would give one the idea that the cells had been packed together very closely, and thus subjected to pressure unequally distributed. I have not succeeded in demonstrating to my satisfaction the existence of a distinct cell-wall; but at the same time have not yet investigated the matter sufficiently to enable me to express a confident opinion that it does not exist. If the absence of this structure were placed beyond a doubt, the so-called cells must be regarded as fragments broken off from a solid, more or less cylindrical mass, originally continuous, in which nuclei were interspersed at intervals,—a view which accords in some degree with that held by E. H. Weber. Contents of the Tubular Network in Fishes.—Now, in the class of fishes, and in some reptiles and birds, and, according to Dr. Handfield Jones, even in the rat,* the tubes of the cell- containing network do present the appearance of being filled with an uninterrupted mass, composed of oil globules, granular matter, nuclei, and sometimes coloured granules. In fig. 55, which is a drawing of the tubes of the cell-containing network of the common eel {Anguilla acutirostris), this point is well shown. The drawing was made with the neutral tint glass reflector; and I have the preparation now in my possession, so that it can be readily com- pared with the delineation. Here the tubes are seen filled, but not distended with oil globules. The high refractive power of the . latter prevents the possibility of seeing the nuclei in situ; but in the fluid surrounding the preparation a few Mere distinctly observed. The eel from which this specimen was taken had been kept for some time without food. From this preparation the disposition of the contents of the tubular network in fishes is well shown; audit demonstrates, in an uninjected preparation, the existence of the tubular membrane, so difficult to show in this class of animals. Fig. 54 is a drawing of the capillaries of the eel's liver injected, and their arrangemeiit is observed to be similar to that in most animals. The tubes con- taining the oil globules, represented in the adjacent drawing, form * Phil. Trans., 1849.