MINUTE ANATOMV OF TIIIO LlVKli. 46 mass of oil globules. With care, however, nuclei mav sometimes be distinguished among them. Cells.—The liver-cell varies much in form and size in different animals, and in the liver of the same animal. Its characters have been well described by numerous authors. The cells in different parts of the lobule vary in their characters, as Dr. Handfield Jones has especially pointed out.* The largest cells are not unfrequently as much as the 1-800th of an inch in diameter, the smallest not more than l-3000th of an inch, or even less. Each cell contains a nucleus, demonstrated easily in perfectly normal cells; but not to be readily distinguished when the cells contain much oil, and when they have undergone other changes in the course of disease. The nuclei vary considerably in size. Upon an average, they may be said to be about the 1-3000th of an inch in diameter. Generally they are circular, but sometimes they have an oval form. The nucleus contains granules, some being larger than others; often there is a bright point in the central part, which is regarded as the nucleolus. Each liver-cell of the adult liver usually contains but one nucleus ; but, in some instances, two may be observed. The liver- cells of young animals, on the other hand, commonly contain many nuclei. I have observed as many as six or seven in the cells of the calf, about the middle period of gestation. Contents of the Cell.—In all the animals which have fallen under my notice, the liver-cells, compared with the cells of other glands, are remarkable for their variety of form and size, for their high, refractive power, and for containing besides the nucleus, granular matter, and, very frequently, oil globules and granules of yellow colouring matter. Under some circumstances the yellow colouring matter becomes much altered, and so dark, that the cell appears to be occupied by black granules, which are sometimes very numerous. The material of which tlie cell consists is not of a fluid nature, but highly viscid; so that, upon pressure, the whole cell becomes flattened, and the bighly refractive viscid material is * For the views of Dr. Handfield Jones upon the function of the liver-cell, the reader is referred to his vahiable papers in the Philosophical Transactions, 1846,1849, and 1853, and to a paper in Vol. XXXV. of the Medico-Cliinirgical Transactions, 1852.