01 EPITIIKLIUM OF SMALL DUCTS. sively few in number; while in some, I do not think they exist at all. But I would not express myself positively upon this point, for I feel persuaded that in the most perfect injection which I have yet made, the minute ducts have not all been injected. Accord- ing to the observations just described the cells of the liver corre- spond in all essential characters to the secreting cells of other glandular organs. They lie within a cavity of basement membrane, which is here arranged so as to form a network, the tubes of which are directly continuous at various points with very narrow efferent ducts. Now, this narrowing of the duct before it becomes con- nected with the secreting portion of the organ, is seen in other glands. In the kidney, the total diameter of the straight and ductal portion of the renal tube is considerably less than that of the convoluted and glandular part, although the central cavity is wider, which allows of a very rapid removal of the secreted products formed in the convoluted portion of the tube. The cavity of the very narrow ducts of the liver, although so small, would doubtless admit the passage of a larger quantity of fluid, within a certain time, than the variable and irregular interstices existing between the cells and the basement membrane in the secreting portions of the network. A somewhat similar arrangement occurs in many other glands. In the Kver, where the secretion is highly elabo- rated, and slowly removed from the secreting structure in a concentrated form, we should naturally expect to find the con- trast between these two different portions of the gland even more remarkable than in the examples referred to. This is really the case. Epithelium of the Smaller Ducts.—The larger ducts, as is well known, have a thick lining of columnar epithelium; but the cells become shorter towards the smaller channels. In the smallest tubes, the cells of epithelium are somewhat flattened, and are of a circular or oval form, which latter, in many instances, is due to the ducts being much stretched in preparing the specimen. These minute cells have a pale granular appearance, and it is not often that a nucleus can be distinctly seen within them. The epi- thelium of the ducts is not dissolved by caustic soda so readily as the liver-cells J indeed, the former cells are scai'cely altered by weak solutions, while the latter are rendered very soft and trans-