MINUTE ANATOMT OF THE LIVER. 3G volume, and in it the bile becomes inspissated, and undergoes other changes. Dr. Kemp has shown, in some recent experiments, that the mucus of the gall-bladder takes a very active part in altering the character of hepatic bile and converting into cystic bile; changes which consist not merely in its inspissation but in an alteration in its chemical composition.* The gall-bladder is absent in many fishes; in pigeons, toucans, and some other birds j in the elephant, stag, horse, and tapir; but it is present in the ox, sheep, and antelope. It is always found among reptiles. The reason of its absence in the animals above alluded to has not yet been satisfactorily explained. Nerves and Lymphatics.—The nerves of the liver are branches of the sympathetic, which are principally distributed upon the artery, and the mode of their arrangement is very similar to that of other arterial trunks. I have not been able to demonstrate them on small branches less than the 1-500th of an inch in diameter. The lymphatics are abundant in the portal canals and in the transverse fissure, but I have never been able to trace them to their origin. The manner in which the lymphatics may be injected has been described in page 5. If any vessels of the liver be injected with water or size the lymphatics are always distended. I have not been able to demonstrate their presence in portal canals less than the quarter of an inch in diameter. HEPATIC VEIN. The radicle of the hepatic vein (intralobular vein) is always seen at a point midway between branches of the portal vein, or in the centre of the lobule in the case of the pig. The capillary meshes are elongated as they approach the hepatic vein, and they converge towards this vessel, the smallest trunk of which is larger than the smallest branch of the portal vein. If the trunk of an hepatic vein of moderate size be laid open, numerous small openings will be observed upon its interior. These openings correspond to the centres of the lobules which surround the trunk of the vein, as described by Kiernan. It is by reason of the entrance of these minute intralobular branches into the large trunk of the vein, that the latter remains patent when cut across. The small radicles of the hepatic vein receive capillaries on all • Proceedmgs of the Royal Society, Vol. VIII., No. 21, p. 133. 1856.