18 MINUTE ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. artery. The distension of the capillaries with blood in a moderate degree would tend to force the bile towards the ducts, but if the bile accumulated to an unusual extent in the smaller ducts, or if it became so viscid that it would not flow readily through them; or if the bile were prevented from escaping readily from the com- mon duct, the free circulation of the blood through the capillaries of the liver would be interfered with. PORTAL CANALS. The course which the portal canals take varies considerably, being sometimes highly tortuous and irregular, and in other instances so straight and even, that they appear to radiate from the transverse fissure of the liver towards the circumference of the lobes, in which case they are seen to alternate with the hepatic venous canals. This point is shown in fig. 31, which is a repre- sentation of the thin lobe of a rabbit^s liver, in which the portal vein has been injected white, the artery red, and the duct dark blue, while the branches of the hepatic vein are yellow. The direction of the portal canals is also tolerably straight in the seal, but less so in the pig. In sections of human liver, the smallest channels seem to alternate in the manner described, and, as it were, to interdigitate with the hepatic venous canals (fig. 2). When the smaller trunks have been divided at right angles, a small hepatic vein is seen to be surrounded by several branches of the portal vein, artery, and duct, nearly equi-distant fi'om it, and a short distance from each other, as represented in fig. 3, in which branches of the portal vein are marked a, and those of the hepatic vein b. In the thickest part of the liver the course of the portal canals is very tortuous, and a canal lies on many diflferent planes at different parts of its course. When the lobules of the pig are divided, the hepatic vein is seen to be the centre of a space bounded by twigs of the portal vein, artery, and duet, which ramify upon the capsules of the lobules, and give off branches to the interior, as shown in figs. 7,10,11. The disposition of the branches of the portal vein is so regular, as to give the idea, when examined by low powers or with the naked eye, of a complete venous ring, in the centre of which is situated a branch of hepatic vein; but this is shown to be a fallacious appearance, by the careful exami-