LOHULKS OF THE PIG's I.IVKU. 17 of mail and many mammalia, on the other; so we find tliat in different animals the liver presents corresponding modifications with reference to its division into lobules. The character of the tissue intervening between the lobules which causes this mapping out will be discussed when the nature of Glisson's capsule is considered. Anatomists have been, perhaps, too anxious in their endeavours to show that the livers of animals generally were arranged in a manner similar to that of the pig. It seems to me that we ought rather to look upon the complete isolation of these small ovoid or many-sided lobules in this animal, as exceptional, than to regard it as the arrangement which exists in vertebrate animals generally. It has been found that the lobules of the human liver, and of most other animals, are in many respects very different in their form and disposition from those of the pig. In all vertebrate animals, the arrangement is such, that the blood after it has left the smallest branches of the portal vein, is made to traverse an extensive system of capillary vessels, from which it is again collected by the small radicles of the hepatic vein. The vessels ramifying in the portal canals seem to alternate with branches of the hepatic vein, as is shown in fig. 31, which represents the thin edge of a rabbit's liver, or in fig. 2, which shows the arrangement in the human liver. In all cases, the blood, enriched by the absorption of nutrient material from the intestines, is brought by the numerous small branches of the portal vein to the circumference of the lobules, and is then made to traverse the network of capillaries, the branches of which converge towards the central, or intralobular, branch of the hepatic vein. The small efferent vein unites with other branches to form at length the large hepatic vein by which the blood is poured into the inferior cava. The blood brought by the artery pursues a course in the same direction, but the bile flows from the central part towards the circumference of the lobule. The bile, and the blood from which this bile is secreted, flow in opposite directions. The bile which is formed is carried away by branches of the duct. These unite to form larger branches, which run close to those of the portal vein and hepatic o