MINUTE ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. 20 tion of the specimen, or it is the result of disease. In the lobules of the livers of all the animals which have fallen under ray notice, it was impossible to demonstrate any fibrous structure whatever. Even in the interlobular fissures of the human liver, and of others allied to it in structure, I have been unable to detect any fibrous structure. Bowman, Henle, and Vogel have altogether failed to detect any areolar tissue in this situation in the human liver. Between the capsules of adjacent lobules in the pig's liver, the elements of areolar tissue undoubtedly exist in small quantity. The capsule can be easily demonstrated; its contents can be washed out. It is composed of delicate fibrous tissue quite dis- tinct from the areolar tissue found in the interlobular spaces and portal canals. In the latter situation the ordinary elements of areolar tissue, white and yellow fibrous tissue, and not unfre- quently adipose tissue, are met with. It has, however, been pointed out in what important particulars the arrangement of the lobules of the pig's liver difi'ers from that of other animals. In the human liver, although there is a considerable quantity of areolar tissue surrounding and adhering to the large vessels, at the point where they enter the liver, and in the larger portal canals, this gradually becomes less, and is, at last, quite lost as we approach the smaller portal canals. The quantity of this fibrous tissue in the large portal canals (Glisson's capsule) varies very much in difi'erent animals. In the rodent animals which I have examined, it seems reduced to a minimum (rabbit, rat, mouse). In the seal it is very sparing in quantity. Structures which may be mistaken for fibrous tissue.—There can be no doubt of the presence of much areolar tissue in the large portal canals of the human subject; but there are, neverthe- less, other structures imbedded in this, such as lymphatics and vasa aberrantia, all of which would be included under the head of Glisson's capsule, by a casual observer. In the horse, the external coats of the large duct and portal vein are incorporated at the point where they touch, and here the areolar tissue clearly be- longs to the external coat of these vessels. In the rabbit very little areolar tissue is found to accompany or invest the vessels of the liver. This may be readily demonstrated by injecting a