MINUTE ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. IG human liver, it only increases from half to three-quarters of an inch in the same directions. Lobules in Mammalia genei'ally.—In other animals it is impos- sible to isolate the elementary parts of the organ from each other without leaving a very rough and jagged surface. When this isolation is attempted the surface of the little masses seem to be rough and uneven; their form is irregular, they have evidently been torn. The true secreting portion of the gland is injured in the attempt. In fact, the secreting structure, and capillary plexus of one imperfectly isolated portion of hepatic substance commu- nicates at certain points with the corresponding elements of the neighbouring lobules. The general arrangement of the vessels, however, is essentially the same in all cases. When the lobules are provided with a separate capsule, as in the pig, the portal vessels ramify upon their surface ; but where they are not thus isolated from each other, the vessels penetrate into the substance of the gland at tolerably regular distances, lying in channels or interlobular fissures. Sometimes the fissm'es are flattened and of considerable width, while, in other instances, they may be com- pared to tubes separated from each other by a certain interval, in which the capillary vessels, and secreting nettvork, of one lobule communicate with those of its neighbours. The Lobules of the Pig's Liver compared with the Renules of the Kidney of the Porpoise.—The distinct and elementary lobules in the pig's liver may be looked upon as exceptional, and the liver of this animal appears to bear the same anatomical relation to the liver of most other animals, as the much-divided kidney of the porpoise bears to the compact and solid character which this gland presents in the greater number of the mammalia. In some animals, although the lobules are not invested by a distinct capsule, the mapping out is much more uniform and distinct than it is in others. In the liver of the rabbit, and in that of many rodent animals, as well as in the horse, and some others, the divisions between each little lobule are more distinctly seen than in the human subject, sheep, or ox. Just as we meet with examples of the kidney intermediate between the much- divided organ of the porpoise on the one hand,—occurring in that of the ox, seal, and even in the human foetus, and the solid kidney