MINUTE ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. 30 In the pig, the interlobular ducts, while running between con- tiguous lobules, are applied, as it were, to the exterior of their capsules, and give off much smaller twigs on either side (figs. 11, 14), which perforate the capsules, and become connected with the secreting structure in the manner described in Chapter V. Coats of the Larger Ducts.—The coats of the larger ducts are very thick, and composed of fibrous tissue. In their walls, how- ever, are found numerous little cavities opening upon all sides of the interior of the tube, in most animals, but in the human liver (in which, according to my own observations, their form is very irregular; fig. 20), they open, except in the largest trunks, by a line of orifices on opposite sides of the duct, as Kiernan described. These cavities have been generally looked upon as mucous folli- cles, but I shall speak of them as Parietal Sacculi, because their form is not always such that the term follicle could be applied to them correctly; neither has it been satisfactorily shown that they are the organs concerned in the secretion of the mucus of the bile. At the point where the smaller ducts open into a larger one, the lining membrane is so disposed as to form a valve which would tend to prevent the passage of the bile from the large duct back again into the smaller branches, while it would not in any way interfere with the course of the fluid in the opposite direction. The course of the small ducts through the walls of large ones is often very oblique, so that they are frequently imbedded in the fibrous coat of the latter for some distance. Parietal Sacculi.—In the coats of ducts about the l-125th of an inch in diameter, and in larger ones, many little saccular dilata- tions are situated. These are the so-called glands of the ducts. In the pig, and in many animals which I have examined, they are arranged all round the tube (figs. 26, 37). They may be de- scribed, for the most part, as simple oval pouches, connected with the cavity of the duct by a very narrow neck, in the pig, often not the 1-iOOOth of an inch in diameter (fig. 38). In the larger ducts they are branched, and often run for some distance in the coats. Occasionally the branches of one sacculus anastomose with those of another. The largest are singularly complicated, and project some distance from the duct, lying in the areolar tissue which surrounds it. These sacculi are represented in fig. 26, appended