53 OPINIONS OF DlKFKllKNT OHSKHVEKS. meshes are filled with a morphologically indifFereut tissue, while, on the other hand, without differing from the liver in this respect, they resemble it in having these elements arranged around divei-- tiaila of the intestinal mucous membrane." " Finally, we suggest that the liver itself is but a huge tonsil—a vascular gland, Avith Avhat might be termed a false duct."* KoUiker ofters the supposition, that the finest ducts impinge upon the columns of the network of hepatic cells, and makes the following remarks with reference to this point:—" Often as I have sought for a direct communication of the finest canals with, the hepatic networks, I have not directly observed it; which is indeed by no means sm-prising, if we consider the softness of the parts with which we have to do; but unfortunately the result is a hiatus in the minute anatomy of the parts, which can hardly be made good by hypotheses. As such, however, I would oflFer the supposition, that the finest ducts impinge directly upon the columns of the network of hepatic cells, as the diagram shows, so that their cavity is terminated by hepatic cells."t The conflicting opinions of observers appear to have been based upon inference and hypothesis rather than upon direct observation, and are embodied in diagrammatic figures. Some authors, agreeing in the main with Kiernau and the older observers, regard the liver as arranged upon the type of true glands with permanent ducts, while the latest authorities have endeavoured to establish the view, that this important organ is more nearly related to the ductless glands.% My own observations have been made upon the livers of several different animals, and I have tried very numerous methods of preparation, some with considerable success. The results of the examination of injected specimens precisely accord with the obser- vations made many months before upon uninjected preparations. The chief point which I hope to establish, with reference to the origin of the minute ducts, is the following:— * Kolliker's Manual of Human Histology, translated and edited by Q. Busk, F.R.S., and T. Huxley, F R.S., p. 126, note by the editors ; 426 in the Appendix, t Op. Cit, p. 118. X An excellent abstract of the views upon the structure of the liver will be found in a paper by Professor Weber, "Uber den Bau dor Leber," in the third part of the "Berichte der koniglich Sachsischcn Qesellsciiaft der Wissenschaften zu Leipzig," for the year 1849, and in Professor Kolliker's "Mikroskopiclic Anatomic, 1852."