56 MINUTE ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. mentioned animals, but only remark that I have not been able to demonstrate it, and do not think that it exists. It may be stated generally, that small branches of ducts carry off the secretion from that part of the lobule to which they are distributed. These small branches unite to form slightly larger ones, and these, again, to form others. The smallest branches some- times pour their contents at once into interlobular branches;—in other cases they are connected by a few transverse branches,—and sometimes, they form an irregular network before they are con- nected with the interlobular ducts. This network, when present, is of a very different structure, and cannot be compared with that within the lobule described in Chapter IV. The ductal network exists in the most perfect form in the liver of the pig when this is not very fatty (fig. 51). When, on the other hand, the liver is fatty, this network is distended with ordinary hepatic cells con- taining much fat and free oil globules in considerable number. Of the finest Branches of the Ducts, and of their junction with the tubes of the cell-containing network, in Mammalia.—It has been already stated that in injected preparations the smallest branches of the ducts can be traced up to the liver-cells. The walls of the small ducts are composed entirely of basement membrane, which is lined with epithelium, described in page 61. These ducts do not always lie in such close contact with the smallest branches of the vein, as is invariably the case with the larger trunks. In many animals, particularly in the rabbit, and, to a less extent, in the human subject, and in some birds (turkey, fowl), the smallest branches of the duct are connected together so as to form a lax netivork of ducts which is continuous with the lobular cell-containing network, as represented in fig. 30. The branches are readily distinguished by their small diameter, and by the little granular cells of epithelium within them. Some of the finest branches of the duct often appear to lie amongst the most superficial portion of the cell-containing network without being immediately connected with the tubes or cells in this jiart, but they may be followed for some distance, and may be seen to join a poftiou of the network which lies at a deeper part of the lobule;