PARIETAL SACCULI. 33 secretion. The cells would become altered, the ducts shortened and contorted, until a condition such as that above described might at last be produced. In the very thin edge of a horse's liver, which was composed principally of fibrous tissue, I have been enabled to trace the gradual alteration of the ducts through many intermediate stages to the ultimate complete disappearance of secreting cells, until at length nothing remains but a branched tube without any cells in the interior. The ducts, discovered by Mr. Kiernan in the trian- gular ligament, in the pons hepatis, and in other situations, are probably produced by a similar change. To the sacculi the office of secreting the mucus which is found in the bile has been assigned by most observers who have investi- gated this part of the subject, but, from a careful examination of their arrangement, I cannot help doubting the correctness of this inference. Cavities opening into a tube, by a narrow neck, often not more than the 1-5000th of an inch in diameter, seem hardly adapted for the secretion and pouring out of a highly viscid mucus (figs. 37, 38). If these so-called "glands" were the seat of the formation of mucus, one would not expect that injection would so readily enter them, and, from their arrangement, it is clear that it would be difficult to force the mucus out of them; again, the complicated and highly tortuous ducts, which Weber termed very properly " vasa aberrantia," possess no characters which entitle them to be regarded as anastomosing mucous glands, a view which has been advocated by Theile. They are most readily injected, and their walls are much thinner than those of ordinary ducts. It must be remarked that an abundant venous plexus sur- rounds the vasa aberrantia (fig. 25) and the lai'ger ducts, and that the bile in the larger ducts, by means of the sacculi, is brought much nearer to the vessels than would be the case in simple tubes with thick fibrous walls. If these little sacculi were mucous glands, one would be led to expect that the bile of animals, in which they were numerous, would be more viscid than that of animals in which they were few in number. I have ascertained that the bile of the rabbit, in which animal these sacculi are almost absent, contains as much mucus as that of the pig, in which they are exceedingly numerous, and arranged entirely round the D