XIX EXPLANATION OF THE FIGURES. Magnified 180 diameters. evidently contained in the interior of tubes, but the membrane of which their walls are composed, is of such extreme tenuity that its outline can only be distinctly traced as a sharp line, in some situations. a. Transverse branch, connecting two tubes. Magnified 110 diameters. These two figures were photographed directly from the drawings, which were originally traced upon paper with the aid of the neutral tint glass reflector. The tubes represented in fig. 55 fit into the meshes between the capillaries represented in fig. 54. These two drawings taken together seem to establish in the most decided manner the presence of a tube of delicate basement membrane, quite distinct from the walls of the vessels, in which the liver cells are contained. The author has still in his possession the prepara- tions from which these drawings were taken. Fig. 56.—Portion of cell-containing network from a foetal calf, to show that the tubes may contain two or three rows of cells at an eai-ly stage of development. Magnified 180 diameters. Fig. 57.—Tubes of cell-containing network from a foetal snake containing several rows of cells. Magnified 150 diameters. Fig. 58.—Part of the cell-containing network of the dog's liver, in which the branches are parallel with each other, altered by being soaked for some time in a dilute alcoholic solution of caustic soda. A few cells are still seen apparently entire, but the greater number are fused together as it were, and the tubes are principally occupied with a highly refracting substance in which numerous oil globules are seen. c. A tube stretched and separated from its neighbours showing its base- ment membrane and contents. Magnified 180 diameters. Fig. 59.—Small portions of tubes of cell-containing network of the horse. Magnified 180 diameters. Fig. 60.—Portion of cell-containing network from the liver of a girl. Fig. 61.—Portion of cell-containing network of human foetus at the point of entrance of a small branch of the portal vein as it is about to divide into capillaries. The meshes of the cell-containing network at this point are much wider than at a greater distance from the circumference of the lobule, in con- sequence of the vessels being larger. The outline of the capillaries .and of the tubes of the network are distinctly seen in this preparation, and are separated by a perfectly transparent material. Magnified about ICO diametei's. Fig. 62.—Portion of cell-containing network of the hedgehog.