MINUTE ANATOMY OF TUB LIVER. 41 Interval between the Walls of the Capillaries and the Membrane of the Tubular Network.—In the foetus there is a distinct interval between the wall of the tube in which the secreting cells lie, and that of the capillary vessels, so that when a good section is obtained, two distinct lines are seen between the hepatic cells and the cavity of the capillaries, fig. 61, d. These two lines are sepa- rated by a perfectly transparent, apparently structureless substance, in which no trace of fibres can be detected. The circumstances above enumerated impress me with the idea that the liver is originally composed of two distinct networks, which intimately interdigitate with, or fit into, each other—one, containing the secreting cells,—the other, the blood. As development advances, the walls of these two sets of tubes gradually become incorporated, except in those situations where the capillary network is less dense, or where the meshes of the cell-containing network are more widely separated from each other, in which cases a distinct limitary mem- brane to the tubes containing the liver-cells can be demonstrated in the adult. The cell-containing network and the vascular network can be alternately distended. The membrane is very permeable to water in both directions, as I have proved by first forcing fluid from the vessels into the duct, and afterwards in the opposite direction. Subsequent injection proved that no rupture had taken place. Nevertheless, the greatest force which can be applied will be found insufficient to cause the bile to pass through this delicate membrane into the capillary vessels. Under some circumstances, then, it is demonstrable that the basement membrane of the cell-containing network is distinct from the walls of the capillaries; but in the gi*eater part of the lobule, where the two membranes come into close contact, they are incorporated, so that really the majority of the liver-cells, except at the points where they are in contact with each other, are surrounded with blood, from which they are only separated by a thin layer of delicate structureless membrane. The facts which have been brought forward are the most important which I have been able to adduce in favour of the existence of a tube of basement membrane in which the liver-cells lie. According to this view, bile formed at any jiart of the net-