52 MINUTE ANATOMY OF TIIK LIVER. commence, or has been able to show conclusively the precise relation which the hepatic cells bear to the biliary ducts. Various hypothetical views have been advanced. Miiller considered that the ducts terminated in blind extremi- ties; E. H. Weber, in 1850, described ducts terminating in blind extremities upon the external surface of the cat's liver. Krukenbei-g, Schroder van der Kolk, Weber, Eetzius, Theile, Backer, Leidy and others, have adopted the view that the hepatic cells lie within a basement membrane, and are of opinion that the cavity of the tubes in which the cells lie is continuous with that of the ducts. LerebouUet, in his memoir on the " Poie gras," published in 1853, advocates a similar view; but his repre- sentations are very diagrammatic, and for the most part taken from preparations examined by low powers. Almost all the drawings of authors, which represent the mode of origin of the ducts, are only offered as plans of the arrangement which they consider to exist, and are not pretended to be accurate copies of structure actually brought under observation. Henle, Gerlach, and Natalis Guillot look upon the finest gall-ducts as communicating with spaces between the hepatic cells, into which the bile escapes, and from which it is received by the most minute duets. Handfield Jones and KoUiker describe the hepatic cells as forming a solid network composed of columns of cells, not bounded by any basement membrane, but lying in the meshes of the capillary network. The former excellent observer con- cludes that the ducts terminate by blind extremities, which lie amongst the cells at the peripheral parts of the lobule. The small cells lining these ducts are considered by Dr. Handfield J ones to be the chief agents concerned in the secretion of bile, and he looks upon the function of the hepatic cells as totally distinct from this. Professors Busk and Huxley, and Dr. Carpenter, appear to concur in this view, which places the liver in the same category as the supra-renal capsules, follicles of Peyer, spleen, &c. In fact, start- ling as this view may at first appear, a very clear transition between the Peyerian follicles, &c., and the liver, is afforded by the tonsils; which, on the one hand, are identical \^dth Peyer's follicles, in so far as they are solid vascular networks, whose