MINUTE ANATOMY OF THK LIVER, 34 ducts. It seems to me that wc may regard these appendages conuected with the ducts as diverticula, in which the bile may Ije retained temporarily, while it becomes inspissated, and probably undergoes other changes. In fact, I think that we may look upon them as little gall-bladders appended to the ducts. In the rabbit and guinea-pig these sacculi are very slightly developed. I have not seen them in the ducts of the fishes and reptiles which I have examined. Coats of the Larger Ducts.—The coats of the larger ducts are composed of condensed fibrous tissue; but there is reason for supposing that they contain a few muscular fibre-cells, although there is no evidence of a distinct muscular coat, at least in the human subject. In some fishes I have seen an internal layer composed of circular fibres, and an external coat of longitudinal fibres (figs. 65 m, 66 a). In the human subject I have observed, but not very distinctly, indications of a somewhat similar arrange- ment. Epithelium.—The epithelium of the larger ducts is of the columnar variety. The cells are large and well-formed, usually exhibiting a distinct nucleus. They are frequently tinged with yellow colouring matter, and often contain yellow granules. In the small ducts, this epithelium becomes shorter, and it approaches more nearly to the tesselated variety. This change in the cha- racter of the epithelium is a gradual one. In ducts less than the 1-500th of an inch in diameter the epithelium consists of small round flattened granular cells. The small branches resulting from the division of the trunks in the interlobular fissures, or upon the siu'faces of the lobules in the case of the pig's liver, are composed of basement membrane, and only lined with a single layer of epithelium. These small ducts may, without difficulty, be traced up to the secreting struc- ture of the lobule, but the manner in which they commence, and the relation Avhich they bear to the liver-cells, have long been matters of dispute among anatomists. It has been held by some of the latest authorities, that the ducts commence by blind extremi- ties at the margin of the lobules; by others, that they are open and impinge against the secreting cells; while, according to the researches of some observers, they commence as very narrow inter-