NETWORK NEAli TRUNK OF THE DUCTS. 56 come off from the trunks are connected by smaller branches, which arise not far from the point at which they are given off, as repre- sented in fig. 19. I have been able to prove, from very many injec- tions, that these communications are very numerous indeed. Similar anastomoses occur to some extent in the case of branches of mode- rate size in the portal canals of the human liver; and in very good injections small branches coming off from a trunk at short inter- vals may be seen to communicate freely with the trunk itself, and with each other, by numerous intermediate branches, so that a network is formed at a short distance from the parent trunk (figs. 39 and 40 c). The meshes of this network are most variable in size and shape, and the tubes are more dilated in some places than in others (fig. 40a). Some of these branches are composed simply of basement membrane and epithelium, but the largest have a fibrous coat, though much thinner than that of the duct itself. Branches of the vein and artery, and of lymphatics (in the case of the larger portal canals), ramify among these duets, and lie in the meshes of the network. In very good injections this network of branches of the duct is demonstrated in the adult, but in the foetus the communications are to be shown with less diffi- culty, although the branches are not so tortuous and are less complex. In the dog, and also in the calf, I have observed similar com- munications, but not so numerous as in the human subject. The smallest branches of the duct may be readily followed, in tolerably good injections, to the surface of the line of hepatic cells, which bounds the portal canals, and not unfrequently they may be traced among these cells, in the human, and other livers. In the pig, the trunks may be seen gradually breaking up into their smaller branches, which are applied to the capsule of the lobule, and which appear to anastomose only very rarely, as above remarked. In the human liver an irregular network, in good injections, is to be demonstrated close to the larger branches of the ducts, and might be termed an interlobular network; but the arrangement is certainly not universal, nor does it seem to me to be sufficiently extensive to render it necessary to give it any special name : indeed, I have not been able to demonstrate it in the pig, seal, rabbit, horse, cat, or monkey. I am not pi-eparcd to affirm its absence in the above-