37 HEPATIC VEIN IN TllK SEAL. sides, quite down to the point where they emerge from the lobule; and these small intralobular veins, in many instances, open, not into a vessel somewhat larger than themselves, but pour their blood at once into a large trunk. In these points the arrange- ment of the portal trunks contrasts remarkably with that of the branches of the hepatic vein. The reason of this difference is clear. In no other manner, consistent with the compact nature of the mammalian liver, and without loss of space, could a part of the portal blood be equally distributed to, and made to pass through, the extensive capillary system existing in the lobules. After having passed through this plexus, the blood is poured into the veins, and carried away from the liver in the most direct manner possible. Hepatic Vein in the Seal.—In the seal, the capacity of the branches of the hepatic vein within the liver is enormously greater than in other animals, an arrangement which has reference to the accumulation of blood in this organ, and in the great venous sinus into which the trunk of the hepatic vein is dilated, when the animal remains for some time under water. Accumulation of the blood, in the small branches, to an improper extent, is prevented, while its further progress towards the hepatic venous sinus, after its accumulation, is promoted by a beautiful arrangement to which I must briefly refer. This pecuHarity was first noticed by Mr. Kiernan, who describes the external coat as consisting of circular fibres. In the smaller trunks these fibres are arranged in the form of circular fasciculi, external to which is a certain quantity of lax areolar tissue, which permits of great alteration in the volume of the veins taking place.* When the hepatic veins were injected with plain size, I was sur- prised to find that a beaded appearance was produced, which is represented in fig. 36, in which this arrangement is very well shown. Upon making a section of a small branch of the vein which had been injected, it was seen to be partially divided into a number of small chambers, by means of septa, which are shown in the figure. At the situation of each partition a circular band of muscular fibre-cells, which is enclosed at intervals in the lax fibrous coat, may be very easily demonstrated. It is no doubt the office of • Op. Cit. p. 738.