KXPI.ANATION OF TiJlC FIGUKKS. XVI Magnified 20 diameters. Fig. 31.—Thin edge of a rabbit's liver about the natural size, to show the manner in wliich the portal canals and the kejiatic venous canals alternate with each other, a point well seen in this liver, as the course of the larger vessels is comparatively straight. The branches of the vein, artery, and duct are somewhat confused in the photograph. Fig. 32.—Tubes of the cell-containing network enormously distended with injection, showing the extent to which this distension may be carried without rupture. Magnified 150 diameters. Fig. 33.—Small ducts from the seal's liver, injected vrith Prussian blue, showing theii- continuity with the cell-containing network. A small branch of the portal vein is shown in outline in the upper part of the figure, and in the same situation the continuity of two small ducts with the tubes of the cell-containing network is seen. In the lower part of the figure some of these small ducts may be traced for a short distance into the lobule, before they join, or become continuous with, the tubes of the network. Injected with Prussian blue. Magnified 150 diameters. Fig. 33a.—Liver cells from the rabbit, lying within tube of basement membrane, which has been torn away with them. The walls of the tube shrink very much where they are not kept apart by its contents. Magnified 150 diameters. Fig. 34.—Portion of a small interlobular duct of the lamb, showing the character of its epithelial lining. Some of the liver cells are also represented. Magnified 200 diameters. Fig. 35.—Interlobular duct and artery, from a small portal canal of the cat. Magnified 200 diameters. Figt 36.—A small branch of the hepatic vein from the seal. The con- strictions are produced by a projection, into the interior, of the lining mem- brane, which is surrounded at certain intervals by a narrow cii'cular band of muscular fibres, lying between the lining membrane and the external coat of the vein. At the lower part of the figure is represented a portion of the cell- containing network. Magnified 200 diameters. Fig. 37.—Interlobular duct with sacculi from the pig's liver, injected with Prussian blue. The sacculi are arranged entirely round the duct. Their neck is not more than l-5000th of an inch in diameter. The interrupted lines indicate the fibrous coat of the duct. d. Small artery.