67 THE VERTEBRATE TJVEU. cell-containing network, up to the hepatic vein, how very sure may we feel of the existence of such a channel along which the bile flows during the life of the organ. This large and important organ presents us with an example of gland structure in which the different tissues of which it is com- posed are arranged in the most advantageous manner it is possible to conceive. The secerning cells and the blood are brought into the closest proximity possible. The blood containing the crude elements is separated from the cells whose office it is to elaborate these constituents, only by the intervention of the thin capillary walls and a membranous partition, under ordinary circumstances not visible, and so delicate that its existence is dis- puted by many great authorities. The areolar tissue, which serves to support the capillaries of most glands, is here absent, and the wall of the capillary comes into close contact, and in many in- stances is incorporated with the thin transparent membranous tube in which the liver cells lie. The alteration in volume which the cells may be made to undergo by artificial means, indicates how very simply a channel may be produced when the organ is in its natural condition. The two sets of tubes mutually adapt themselves to each other; and if the secreting tubes be unusually empty, the vascular tubes admit more blood. It has been already pointed out what a very large proportion of fluid the capillary vessels of the liver are capable of containing over and above what may be assumed to be their nor- mal quantity, and also how the distension of the vessels, by forcing in fluid in one direction, promotes the passage of liquid through the cell-containing network in the opposite direction. Careful reflection upon some of these circumstances assists much in the comprehension of many of the morbid changes which take place in the liver. The bile having arrived at the smallest ducts, without doubt undergoes fiu-ther changes. It is not improbable that the oxygen lirought by the arterial blood which flows in the vascular network^ through the meshes of which the ducts pass, exerts some influence upon it. This, however, has not been proved. Tlie most im- portant alteration which the bile now undergoes, is concentration. Water is removed, and the proportion of solid constituents gra- F 2