12 MINUTE ANATOMY OF THE LlVEll. space in the greatest possible degree, provides for the most com- plete and perfect action of the cells upon the blood. While tlie latter fluid is made to pass slowly through an extensive series of tortuous channels, it is only separated fi'om the cells by a delicate membrane of extreme tenuity, through the intervention of which it bathes the greatei" part of the surface of each individual cell. In the liver the capillary network is of a very unusual extent, a circumstance which alone would lead us to infer that the change exerted upon the blood as it passes through the organ is of a very important nature, and one which must be effected completely. The system of efferent ducts is extensive, and their course before they make their exit from the organ, a very intricate one. The coats of the larger ducts are largely supplied with arterial blood, and the arrangement of vessels around all of them is peculiar. Portal Canals and Hepatic Venous Canals.—In the compact mammalian liver there are two important series of channels, which in their ultimate distribution maybe said to alternate with each other (fig. 2). Of these, one set contains branches of the portal vein, hepatic artery, and hepatic duct, while the other series contains branches of the hepatic vein alone, with the vascular branches which are supplied to their coats. Such an arrangement permits of a very equable and free distribution of the blood to the capillaries of the indi- vidual lobules, of which the organ is made up, and promotes its rapid removal after the proper changes have taken place in it; while at the same time the carrying off of the bile after its elabo- ration is effectually provided for, and the occurrence of other changes in it during its course to the gall bladder and common duct is facilitated. Upon the under-surface of the liver is a large groove, the longitudinal fissure, from which passes off transversely upon the surface of the right lobe another depression, the trans- verse fissure. At this point the portal vein, the hepatic artery, and nerve-fibres, enter the substance of the organ; and the hepatic duct and numerous lymphatic vessels emerge from it. These structures all lie in close proximity to each other, and, in the larger channels, are bound together by a certain quantity of areolar tissue. From the transverse fissure may be traced numerous tubular jiassages throughout the entire substance of the liver, those most