58 MINUTE ANATOMY OF THE LlVEll. break at the constricted portion, when an attempt is made to isolate them; and, unless this isolation can be effected, it would be impossible to prove that such an arrangement really exists. In this preparation, by an unusually lucky accident, the cell-contain- ing network has broken, instead of the narrow portion of the duct, which is protected, as it were, by lying upon the walls of a small artery. The further continuity of the network is shown by dotted lines. I have seen the same point in several specimens, but never in one which shows a greater number of minute ducts, and their points of connexion with the tubular netwoi'k in which the secreting cells lie, with greater distinctness. These narrow ducts are only 1-3000th of an inch in diameter; while the expanded portion, in which the liver-cells lie, and with which they are immediately continuous, is upwards of 1-lOOOth of an inch in width. The connexion between the finest duets and the cell-containing network, from an injected specimen of the human liver, is repre- sented in fig. 46; the hepatic cells have been much altered in preparing the specimen from which the drawing was copied. In fig. 42 is shown a similar arrangement in a portion of human liver, which had been treated with soda, and kept for some time in strong syrup. Here the epithelium of the ducts is well shown, but the specimen has been flattened somewhat by the pressure of the thin glass. Fig. 41 is a representation of another section of the same liver, which has not been subjected to pressure, in which the narrow ductal part of the tube contrasts remarkably with the wide secreting portion which is continuous with it. In the human foetus, the connexion between the duct and cell- containing network is shown in fig. 39, at a, and in fig. 40 it is represented in the liver of the calf. In the seal, the hepatic cells are small, and injection readily passes into the tubes which contain them. The small ducts are comparatively few in number, but their course in this animal is very easily traced, and they can be well seen through the thin wall of a small portal vein which has been injected with clear size. In fig. 28, at c, this point is well shown upon the surface of a branch of the portal vein, and in fig. 33 the connexion between the ducts, and the cell-containing network in the liver of the same animal is represented. Fig. 30 is a copy of a drawing of a thin section of rabbit's