viii PREFACE. chauffees, and various little dishes for which strong stock is not a necessity. The fat trimmings should be put into a saucepan and clarified by boiling gently with water; when quite melted, strain into a basin, allow all the fat to rise to the surface, and then pour off the water from underneath. All dripping from roast joints should be treated in the same way. When cold, this clarified fat or dripping is beautifully white in appearance, and quite takes the place of the very best lard; it is also an excellent substitute for, or at any rate supplement to, butter in many cases; it is equally as good as butter for nearly all frying purposes, omelets and such-like delicate dishes being excepted. It is often an improvement to pastry, rendering it lighter than if butter alone were used (this is especially the case in the summer, when butter is soft and moist). Very good plain cakes can be made with dripping, with or without the addition of a little butter. Again, in roasting, when butter is mentioned as being required for basting, dripping will be often found to answer the same purpose equally well, except in the cases of delicate dishes, such as game, etc. Again, some recipes for soups, sauces, stews, puddings, cakes, etc., in this book have wine as one of the ingredients. Many young and inexperienced cooks, whose household re- sources are not equal to this demand, would, on seeing it, at once turn from the recipe. It would be as well, however, to read the recipe carefully through, for although in many instances it could on no account be omitted without completely altering and spoiling the character of the dish, there are almost as many instances when it is only used to add extra flavouring and give a touch of hauteur to the dish, no very detrimental consequences resulting from its omission. It is very useful to keep a special bottle for any wine dregs that may remain after decanting; although slightly cloudy these dregs have all the flavour of the wine, and answer all cooking purposes admirably.