ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERV. 20 We have now to deal very briefly, but we hope clearly, with the flesh of wild and domesticated animals, rich in nitrogen, fatty matter, and saline properties, eggs, which consist chiefly of nitrogenous matter, being deficient in the heat-giving element (carbon); fish, deficient in saline properties, but rich in nitrogen ; and vegetables, all more or less rich in carbon. Bearing these things in mind—and remembering that food substances containing nitrogen are those which, when digested, or in a soluble condition, form blood, and those which are without it (carbonaceous) go to preserve that animal heat which keeps it circulat- ing, and that one without the other surely brings disease and death— let us pass under review first butcher’s meats, the chief importance of which as food resides in the fact that their composition is identical with that of our own bodies, and that, therefore, meat is the food most fit for conversion into our own tissues. No other food leaves so little refuse. In summer less meat should be eaten than is necessary in winter. In connection with its use Dr. Edward Smith points out, as worth noting, that the bowels as well as the stomach of flesh-feeding animals are very much less in size than those of vegetable feeders, and says, ‘ When we compare the nutritive qualities of meat with, for example, those of flour, we are liable to doubt either the correctness of the statement of its nutritive elements or its greater superiority as a food, for in their ultimate composition they do not differ very greatly; but the explanation (at least in a great part) is found in the fact that there is much more water in flesh than in flour, and consequently that the really nutritive part of the meat occupies only a small part of the whole.’ To begin with Beef. One ounce of this food, says Hallet, a chemical authority of no small eminence, contains the essence of many pounds of hay, turnips, and other vegetables ; and in consequence of this persons who have a superabundance of animal heat should not partake of it too freely, while those who by hard exhaustive work need a larger supply of vigour-giving nitrogen will find it a very suitable food. Beef is more nourishing and digestible roasted than boiled, and is said to be almost the only species of animal food with which the stomach is not easily surfeited. It is also the food upon which the greatest amount of manual labour can be performed. Mutton. In its'prime condition—say, in its third to sixth year—mutton is the most easily digested of meats, and should be eaten in preference to beef or pork by invalids and children, and by persons whose digestion is im- paired or whose habits of life are sedentary. When full fed and not previously overdriven, it is fairly supplied with fat. The quality of