ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. CO Steak, Broiled.—Cut 1 pound of steak off either rump or sirloin of beef (you may leave it whole or divide into nice pieces), dip in olive oil and put aside for a few hours ; then broil over a clear fire, and serve with sauce made as follows : Put a piece of butter, size of a walnut, in a saucepan with some finely-chopped onion and parsley; add a little lemon juice, pepper and salt; stir on the fire for 5 minutes, and serve very hot. Broiled Perfection Steak.—A West End Club Recipe.—Take 2 to 3 pounds of rump steak (good buttock or thick flank will answer) cut an inch thick ; beat well with a rolling-pin—you will not break the rolling-pin. Pepper thickly on both sides and edges, rubbing well in with clean fingers. Place over a very low clear coal, coke, or ember fire until partly cooked, turning occasionally, and taking special care not to prick the ‘broil.’ Continue to put on the fire some previously dried deal sticks—a small piece of fat may be thrown on to start a blaze—and finish cooking in the flames, turning repeatedly. A rever- sible gridiron should be used ; but I have cooked dozens of steaks this way on a single one. By the time the steak is a deep brown, almost black colour, it will be cooked; but the exact moment for removing can be ascertained by the firmness, pressing the meat with a spoon. The flames will destroy all taste of the pepper, and when cut, the hot dish will fill with gravy. Flavour and garnish to fancy. Stewed Tripe.—A pound and a half of tripe, and 6 good-sized onions ; stew gently in | pint of water for 2 hours ; then pour off the greater part of the liquor, and add a dessertspoonful of mustard, the same quantity of flour, and \ pint of milk. Tripe a la Mode de Caen.—Dr. Strauss is responsible for the following recipe, which some of his distinguished confreres partook of, and then one of them, like 1 Hudibras ’ of old, who, in commenting upon the attributes of Presbyterians * true blue,’ verily ‘ blasphemed custard through the nose ’ by declaring, ‘ Why, I am thinking I would as lief forswear tripe altogether as to incur the expense and trouble to make it palatable.’ Many of our readers, however, will find the recipe, when well carried out, worthy of a place at the supper-table of their most honoured guest: ‘ Chop 1 ounce of parsley and of tarragon, 4 ounce of savory and lemon thyme mixed, 2 ounces of mushrooms, 1 tablespoonful of capers, and 2 anchovies boned. Put them in a stew- pan with J pint of French vinegar, 1J pints of water, 1 ounce of salt; add 12 white peppercorns, 12 cloves, a few blades of mace, a nutmeg grated, the peel of a lemon grated, the juice of the lemon, 2 spoonfuls of ketchup, and 2 glasses of white wine. Set the pan over a slow fire, and let the contents simmer about 1 hour. Meanwhile prepare your tripe. This you get ready dressed, and with the coarser part of the fat removed by the tripe-seller. Put 2 pounds of it 10 minutes in boiling water. Cut it into neat small pieces, and fry them a light yellow in 6 ounces of boiling butter. Set them aside in a dish. Fry in the same butter 4 ounces of onions cut in thin slices. Add the tripe, onions, and butter to the stew in the pan, and let it boil another £ of an hour.’ Serve hot.