45 SOUPS AND SAUCES. large saucepan, and simmer slowly for about 1 hour. Then add 2 quarts of water and stew gently about 2 hours. Rice Soup.—Wash 4 ounces of rice, drain and put into a saucepan with 2 ounces of butter, a cupful of stock, seasoned with salt and pepper ; simmer gently until tender. Gut 2 large turnips into small pieces, and fry these in butter a light brown ; drain the fat from them, and stew in a pint of stock. Add the boiled rice, and serve. Send 2 tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan to table with the soup. Tomato Soup.—Put a small onion and 2 tablespoonfuls of dripping into a stewpan, simmer till of a reddish brown, and add 12 tomatoes, peeled and sliced ; stir all up till very hot, and add 1 quart boiling water and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley ; stew for half an hour and strain. Return to the stewpan, season with pepper, salt, and sugar, and when boiling add a tablespoonful of butter rolled in flour, and a cup of boiled rice ; simmer 15 minutes, and serve. Veal Soup.—Cut 4 pounds of the knuckle of veal into 5 or 6 pieces, sawing through the bones. Place in a stewpan, cover with cold water, and boil. Skim and simmer for an hour. Add 5 or 6 turnips, 2 onions, and a few sticks of celery, and simmer gently for another hour. Mix a tablespoonful of flour or ground rice to a smooth paste with cold water, stir a little of the boiling liquor into it, and add it to the rest. Boil a short time longer. Half an hour before serving add a pinch of powdered mushrooms, 6 or 8 sliced potatoes; and 10 or 15 minutes before it is served put in 6 small dumplings. Pepper and salt to taste. Serve the veal on a dish with the dumplings and vegetables round it. Vegetable Colourings for Soups.—The old practice of burning sugar in a spoon to brown soups and sauces should be discarded. Their flavour is very likely to be spoilt by this means. The better plan is to use one of the prepared brownings, such as ‘ Couleur Parisienne,’ which keeps good any length of time, and is practically flavourless. ‘ Couleur Parisienne ’ is pure sugar caramelised by a special process, and gives both richness of colour and ‘ body ’ to soups, sauces, etc. Green colour- ing may be made by pounding some young spinach or beet-leaves, press- ing out the juice into a cup and placing this cup in a saucepan of boiling water. Let it simmer gently to take off the raw taste of the juice. Before using, mix it with a little finely-sifted sugar. For Red colouring add 2 or 3 drops of cochineal. For White colouring add pounded almonds, arrowroot, or cream. For Yellow, dissolve orange or lemon jelly. For an Opaque, pound the yolks of eggs, and mix it with the liquid ; or, add a little saffron ; or, soak the flowers of the crocus, which will not taste. White (Vegetable) Soup.—Mix 1 ounce Edwards’ White (Vegetable) Soup, which costs Id., with a little tepid water ; cover,and place by the fire about 15 minutes ; put £ pint water in a saucepan, when it boils add the soup ; blend well ; boil 20 minutes, stirring well; add \ pint fresh or skimmed milk, just bring to the boil; strain ; add pepper, salt, etc. ; add the yolk of an egg by beating it up with a little of the soup ; when thoroughly mixed, add the whole. All purely vegetable soups are greatly enriched and improved by the use of bran water. This may be made by adding J pound of bran to 1 quart cold water ; bring slowly to the boil ; then simmer for 2 hours ; strain, and use instead of water as directed above. Edwards’ White Vegetable Soup may be added to all vegetable soups with advantage.