ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERT. 82 ful of oil with a tablespoonful of vinegar, add pepper and salt, and pour over the sliced cucumber.—(6) Take 3 or 4 fine raw tomatoes, cut them up into quarters or halves ; make a dressing of a tablespoonful of oil, another of vinegar, a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, and a dessert- spoonful of sugar ; pour it over the tomatoes ; garnish with watercress. All salads should be made about or £ of an hour before they are to be eaten. Hard-boiled eggs cut in slices may in all cases be used for garnishing.—(7) French beans, when very young, make excellent entremets as salad. Cook them rapidly in salted boiling water without a lid on the saucepan, then plunge into cold water. Carefully drain, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and vinegar, and so allow them to stand for some hours ; then pour the vinegar away, and stir over a dressing of oil and vinegar, with a slight sprinkling over the top of finely-chopped tarragon. Anchovy Salad.—Wash in cold water some salted anchovies, steep them in vinegar, drain them on a cloth, and take out their fillets, which shred likewise ; place them symmetrically on a small plate, or a hors d’oeuvre dish, garnished with groups of hard-boiled eggs, chopped parsley and onion, separately also, with whole small capers. Pour a little oil over the whole, and serve. Sea-kale.—Well wash the kale, and tie into small bunches ; put it into boiling water with a little salt, and boil quickly until tender. Take it out, drain, untie the bunches, and serve with melted butter or white sauce. Spinach.—1 Of all the vegetables grown in our kitchen gardens,’ says an authority, ‘ there is, perhaps, not one so dependent upon judi- cious preparation as spinach.’ After thoroughly washing and draining, put into a clean saucepan without any water, and press tightly down. When the pot is quite full, place sufficiently near the fire to steam the spinach in its own juices ; stir often to prevent burning. When tender, strain, place on a chopping-board, and chop very fine. In this state, with a little salt, it will keep 3 or 4 days, and form the founda- tion of many a delicate little entremet or tasty dish. The spinach may be heated by being tossed and amalgamated with a lump of butter, seasoned with pepper, and dished au naturel, or served with poached eggs on the top. A pretty dish may be made by placing a portion of spinach upon a buttered round of toast, each mound being crowned with a poached egg. Tomato Salad Dressing.—Beat 2 eggs well together, add 1 teaspoonful of sugar, J teaspoonful each of salt and mustard, 1 table- spoonful of sweet cream or condensed milk, and 3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Place the bowl containing it in a basin of boiling water, and stir till it attains the thickness of cream. Baked Tomatoes.—Peel and slice the tomatoes, put a layer of tomatoes in a buttered dish, season with salt and pepper, and strew with breadcrumbs. Fill the dish with crumbs at the top, cover closely, and bake for i hour. Remove the cover, brown, and serve. Tomatoes au Gratin.—Scoop out from the top of each a part of the inside ; chop this, add an equal quantity of breadcrumbs, butter, parsley chopped, pepper, salt, nutmeg ; put in a saucepan, stir gently over the fire ; place this in the tomatoes, pile it up, sprinkle over with breadcrumbs, and put a few drops of oil over them. Butter a tin, lay in the tomatoes, and bake about 10 minutes.