ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 58 scalded, into pieces about 2 inches long and 1 inch wide ; dip each piece into the yolk of a beaten egg; cover with breadcrumbs mixed with chopped parsley, cayenne, and a little pepper and salt; fry in boiling butter. Ox Ckeek Stewed.—Soak and well wash, the day before, an ox- cheek ; put it into a stewpan with 3 quarts of water, boil up once and well skim, then let it simmer ; in 2 hours add plenty of carrots, leeks, 2 or 3 turnips, a bunch of sweet herbs, some whole pepper, and 4 ounces of allspice, skim often ; when the meat is tender, take it out ; let the soup get cold, take off the fat, and serve the soup either separate or with the meat. It ought to be of a nice brown colour, which may be done by burnt sugar, or by frying some onions quite brown with flour, and simmering them with it. Uissoles.—Put 1 ounce of Edwards’ Desiccated Soup (beef and vegetables) into a basin, pour on it \ pint of boiling water, cover, and keep warm for 15 minutes, then add 1 ounce of breadcrumbs and sea- soning to taste. Mix all well together (and bind it with 1 well-beaten egg) into a thick paste. Form into 6 balls, dip them into egg and breadcrumb, and fry a nice brown. Steak, Dolled.—Take 1 pound of steak cut thin, beat with a rolling-pin. A seasoning of 3 or 4 sprays of parsley, \ a teaspoonful of thyme, dried and rubbed, a pinch of small-chopped lemon-peel, a dash of cayenne pepper, a grate of nutmeg, 1 ounce bacon chopped small, 1 ounce fine breadcrumbs, pepper and salt to taste, all minced and mixed carefully, is spread over the steak, after which it is rolled a3 you would a roley-poley pudding, tie it with tape in 3 places, put it in a saucepan with just sufficient water (or plain stock) to cover, and simmer very gently for 2 hours. Brown the gravy with a pinch of sugar burnt in an iron spoon, thicken with a teaspoonful of flour, and serve hot. Steak, Stewed.—1 pound of buttock steak, pepper, salt, and sprinkle with flour, place in a saucepan with 2 ounces of beef dripping, and constantly turn till nicely browned ; add I pint of good stock, 1 tomato sliced, and let these simmer for 20 minutes ; then take 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, 2 of ketchup, and 1 teaspoonful of anchovy, mix these with ^ a pint of stock smoothly, and add to the ingredient in the saucepan. Let all boil for J of an hour, and serve garnished with parsley and a boiled carrot cut in slices. Time, 35 minutes. Steak, Braised.—(1) Fry 1 pound of lean, tender beefsteak lightly in a little dripping, and with it an onion, 4 ounces weight, cut small. Drain away the fat and put into a baking-dish, or jar, with I pint of water ; add a small carrot grated, pepper and salt, 4 cloves, and 1 tablespoonful of Yorkshire relish, with the same quantity of vinegar and a small lump of sugar. Stew slowly until tender, about II hours ; thicken with browned flour, or, if preferred, a tablespoonful of rice added as soon as the gravy begins to simmer; a few drops of browning or a little browning salt improves it. Steak, Braised.—(2) Take 1 pound of steak, fry in a little butter to a rich brown, then put it into a saucepan well covered with water, and add 1 onion, 2 carrots, 2 turnips, all chopped fine; 1 blade of mace, a touch of nutmeg, 1 clove, pepper and salt to taste ; simmer gently for two hours ; thicken with a tablespoouful of flour, have ready a hot dish, on which strew a little chopped parsley, pour over the steak and serve.