134 ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. absolute safety and their simplicity in working. The third point, though apparently not so serious a one, will, with many persons, carry more weight than all the others. It is, entire freedom from smell, which quality is largely due to the particular kind of stove adopted by this firm. It need hardly be said that all these stoves are manufactured by skilled workmen, and all burners constructed on the most scientific principles, by which the greatest possible heat is obtained at the smallest possible cost, and the heat obtained utilised to the best possible advantage. Knife-Cleaners.—In all households where a machine is not, knife-cleaning is looked upon as unpleasant and painful ; and, in good truth, what can be more irritating and tedious in a small way than rubbing a blade backwards and forwards along a board, especially when, as too often happens, that blade resolutely refuses to become bright ? The larger machines, although efficient enough, exceed the purse of many ; the simpler ones only too frequently sacrifice cleanliness and effectiveness to price. There is, however, an intermediate ‘cleaner,’ called the ‘Sun,’ which, while costing one-third the price of the wooden- box machines, does its work just as quickly and satisfactorily as the most expensive. It is rotary in its action, and consists of two leather discs, pressed together by means of elastic steel springs, between which, while in revolution, the blade is passed in and out. The celerity of the process is scarcely conceivable until witnessed. The absence of parts to get out of order or wear out, adds to the suitability of this machine for domestic use. It is made in three sizes—11 inches, 12 inches, and 14 inches—the two first of which are the most serviceable sizes for small families, and can be purchased for 20s. and 25s. respectively. Mashing, Mincing and Chopping Machines. — Of these there are several new entrants for public esteem, some appealing more directly to the moderate-sized household and the moderately-filled purse, others to the chef and the caterer. The new ‘ Rapid Masher,’ to be had for 2s. 6d., or less, is likely to become a prime favourite, being a strong and durable, yet simple and cleanly, little servant, which will mash either carrots, potatoes or turnips extremely fine, and can be further used for straining fruit and vegetables, preparing beef-tea and making ormamental designs in pastry, butter, etc. For its size and price it is by far the best thing of the kind out Among mincing machines, perhaps the palm goes to the American firms, but all the known makes are good, useful, economic and cheap. From 7s. 6d. to 12s 6d. will buy a fair sized mincer. Chopping machines, the best kind, cost about 21s., but others very good can be had at a less price. Moulds.—The newest and most fashionable shapes include the horseshoe, beehive, princess, crime de volaille, Belgrave and that charm- ing arrangement christened 1 CEufs de pluviers en belle vue,’ the effect of which, following Messrs. Temple and Crook’s directions, is simply magical. Pie Dishes.— The ‘ Lippen,’ i.e. trustworthy, made in semi- porcelain with a deeply-grooved rim to obviate boiling over and bottom studs to prevent the contents burning, approaches to common-sense requirements as nearly as any pie-dish we have yet seen. Scales and Weights.—In treating of domestic requisites it may be said, and said justly, that no kitchen, however admirably appointed