SOUPS AND SAUCES. 47 milk to a smooth paste ; boil I a pint of milk and pour on to tlxe paste, the same manner as in making arrowroot. When mixed, boil for 3 minutes. Mayonnaise Sauce.—Break the yolk of a fresh egg into a basin, season with pepper and salt, and beat till thick. Add, drop by drop while beating, 3 tablespoonfuls of salad oil and 4 teaspoonfuls of vinegar. When these are thoroughly mixed add 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, stirring it in well. Two points to attend to in mixing a mayonnaise are that the materials and utensils should be as cool as possible, and that in mixing the oil and vinegar not more than a few drops of each should be added at a time. Time and care are required to make a good sauce. Onion Sauce.—Boil 4 or 6 white onions till tender. Mix them with ^ pint melted butter. Salt and pepper to taste, and boil up. Oyster Sauce.—Stew the beards of 12 oysters in their own juice with i a teacupful of good clear gravy ; strain it off, add it to \ pint melted butter, put in the oysters, and simmer gently for 3 minutes. Parsley and Butter.—To 1 pint melted butter add 2 tablespoon- fuls of parsley, chopped very fine. Boil parsley for 5 minutes previously. Some prefer not to boil the parsley. Shrimp Sauce.—Into J pint melted butter put \ pint picked shrimps, add cayenne to taste, and simmer for 2 minutes. A dash of lemon-juice or anchovy sauce may be added. Sweet Sauce.—Take ^ pint melted butter, sweeten, and flavour with cinnamon, nutmeg, or grated almonds. Sauce Flavouring's.—In conveying delicate flavours to sauces, soups, gravies, stews, stuffings, and roast and. broiled meats, the cook will find Langdale’s essences of sage, parsley, garden mint, horseradish, onions, shallots, garlic, basil, marjoram, thyme, lemon thyme, mixed herbs, sweet herbs, savory and tomato, of material assistance. The essences of celery, capsicum, cayenne pepper, eschalot, tarragon, and truffles are also worth keeping in the storeroom. They are very inex- pensive and go a long way. Sauce Tartare.—Put the yolks of 2 eggs, a dessertspoonful of the best vinegar, and a little salt into a small saucepan, whip these up with a whisk quickly into a cream, and add 2 dessertspoonfuls of oil and a teaspoonful of mustard, which must be well mixed previously ; a pinch of parsley minced very fine, and a little cayenne. The oil should be put in drop by drop, to mix perfectly. Wine and Brandy Sauces are made as sweet sauce, without the flavourings. White wines only are used for wine sauce. Worcester Sauce.—Mince 2 cloves of shallot, put into a bottle, and pour over it a pint of wine vinegar. Add 3 tablespoonfuls of essence of anchovy, 3 of walnut ketchup, 2 of soy, and cayenne to taste. Cork the bottle, keep it in a cool place, and shake it well twice a day for a fortnight. Strain the sauce, put it in small bottles, corked closely, for use. (3f course, few cooks would nowadays think of making Worcester, except as an experiment, when such an infinitely better article as Lea and Perrin’s sauce exists. Petroleum Oil Stoves are the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. A completo Illustrated Catalogue of Wright and Butler’s Patent Oil Cooking Stoves will be sent post freo from the manufacturers, Wright and Butler, Linjjted, Birmingham.— See Advertisement.