KITCHEN AND DOMESTIC REQUISITES. 137 and present, it would, in all probability, appear that more of these con- venient, safe, and portable luminants are now burnt than at any period in recent history. That this should be so is due, primarily, to the cheapness with which candles are now produced, thus placing them within every- one’s reach. Science, as shown in the illustration below, wherein the modem candle-maker is seen at work, each operator turning out from two to three thousand finished candles per hour, has come to the rescue, enabling competition to be kept up with gas, even in the matter of price, while, with regard to ‘ movability ’ and relative absence from sulphurous and destructive fumes, this lux has naught to fear. In a secondary sense, the continued supremacy of the candle is due to the condition of high finish and excellence to which the manufacture has been pushed by Price’s Patent Candle Company, Limited—the leading makers—and others. A visit to a candle factory—say this firm’s works at Battersea—reveals one fact which a dozen visits to West End shops will not. An almost incredible assortment of candles are now produced to meet Society’s ever-varying and growing demands. Price’s Company alone, we believe, manufacture over a thousand distinctive qualities, shapes, and sizes. Now, if the modest housekeeper, who cannot afford to decorate her salons and tables d diner with electric globules, would practise a little industrious research in shops and stores, she would be placed in the way of realizing at a trivial cost effects scarcely excelled by electricity itself. Interspersed amid ferns and flowers, ‘ shaped ’ candles of different lengths, colours, and designs, conduce, when alight, to an almost magical ideal, the light being so subdued and soft. It is not generally known that candles de luxe can now be had transparent, scented, and in any colouring desired, and either ribbed, fluted, spiral, sexagon, octagon, square, and grooved, or even shaped like a Maltese cross, not to mention other fanciful shapes. Another class is orna- mented with charming pictorial designs, reproduced by a new process. All these are within the means of the middle classes : only hand-painted candles are absolute luxuries. To the housekeeper then, we say, 1 Try your ha,nd at candle-decoration, and if you possess taste and talent, disappointment will not be your lot.’ Regarding ordinary parlour candles, there is nothing to beat the Gold Medal ‘ Palmitine,’ which yields a soft, but brilliant, and almost pure light. Belmont Sperm are likewise good, and somewhat cheaper. Together with these, we can recommend Price s Battersea Composites and Pale Wax, and for bed- room purposes, the Belmont Sperm, Sherwood Sperm, and a candle known as the ‘Bropless.’ Self-fitting ends are a great advantage, saving time, grease-splashing, and much needless annoyance; while, for