69 MEATS : JOINTS, STEAKS, CHOPS, ENTRIES, ETC. lightly brown ; then pour over them warm water to cover ; add a bunch of parsley and a small onion, and simmer gently until the meat is three-parts cooked. Slum, take out the onion and parsley ; mince the parsley. Return it to the gravy with 1J pints of green peas. Season and simmer till the peas are tender. Serve on a dish as hot as possible. Lamb Cutlets, Fricasseed.—Cut thin cutlets from a leg of lamb, across the grain, and place in a stewpan. Make sufficient good stock from shank, etc., to cover the cutlets ; put into the stewpan, and cover it with a bundle of sweet herbs, an onion, some clove and mace tied in a muslin bag, and stew gently for 10 minutes. Take out the cutlets, skim off the fat, and take out the herbs and mace. Thicken it with butter rolled in flour, and season ; add a few tinned or fresh mush- rooms, some forcemeat balls, the yolks of 3 eggs beat up in 1 pint of cream or condensed milk, and some grated nutmeg ; keep stirring the same way till it is thick and smooth, and then put in the cutlets. Give them a toss up, take them out with a fork, lay on a dish, and pour the sauce over them ; garnish with beetroot and lemon. Lamb Chops, Broiled.—Place the chops on a hot gridiron over a clear fire, and let them remain until brightly browned on both sides. Season with pepper and salt, and serve hot. Garnish with parsley. Mashed potatoes, asparagus, green peas, or spinach, are usually served. Time, 8 or 9 minutes to broil. Roast Forequarter of Lamb.—Lay the meat down to a quick fire, and baste continually. About 10 minutes before taking up, dredge a little flour over it, and froth and brown it nicely. A slice of fresh butter, a cut lemon, and a little cayenne should be sent to table, so that when the shoulder is separated from the ribs, they may be ready for being laid between the two. Serve the lamb with a cut-paper ruffle on the shankbone, and send a little gravy made from the roast under it. Mint sauce and salad generally accompany this disli. A forequarter of lamb, weighing 10 pounds, will require from 2 to 2tt hours. Forequarter of Lamb, Roasted and Larded.—Lard the upper side of the joint with lean bacon, and sprinkle the other side thick with breadcrumbs ; then cover with paper to prevent the meat from being burnt, and roast it. When nearly done, take it from the fire, and cover the part that has not been larded a second time with breadcrumbs, seasoned with salt, and parsley chopped very fine ; then put the lamb again before a bright fire to brown it. Serve with a little vinegar poured over it. Roast Leg1 of Lamb.—Place the joint at a good distance from the fire at first, and baste continually. When nearly done, draw it near to the fire to brown. Sprinkle a little fine salt over the meat; empty the dripping-pan ; pour in a little boiling water, and strain over the meat. Serve with mint sauce and salad, and send peas, spinach, or cauliflowers to table with it. Lamb (Leg of) Stewed with. Peas.—Stew a leg in some stock. When nicely done, take it out, put it in a slow oven, and glaze it 3 or 4 times ; then have some good young peas, well stewed, with bechamel sauce ; pour them on the dish, and lay the leg on the top ; cut the loin into cutlets, and do them on the fire with some butter and some strong gravy ; when nearly done, shake them well in their glaze, dish round the lamb over the peas, and serve them hot to table.