KITCHEN AND DOMESTIC REQUISITES. « 141 spoon, a claw connected with a knob at the end of the handle, is hinged. On pressing this knob, the claw moves towards the spoon, seizing the longed-for dainty, be -it walnut, gherkin, or apricot, which can be extracted without the least disfigurement. The spoon serves to ladle out the liquor or syrup. Paper Table Decorations—Embossed, Laced, etc.—Under this general heading may be included, dish, plate, and dessert papers, ham and cutlet frills, souffle, ramequin or ice-cases, lace papers for bride and other cakes and a host of other ornamental paper novelties. These are now produced in all sizes, and in various extremely artistic designs, and at prices that not only place them well within the means of the middle-classes, but probably economize even on home washing. A visit to any high-class stationery store, and a request to be shown samples, will almost inevitably induce an interchange of silver into some of these pretty novelties. Latterly, a West End firm have em- barked upon a new venture, to wit, dainty little egg-cup linings, made in both pink and white paper. These are neatly pleated, and formed with a brim which prevents the yolk overflowing. The pink ‘ notion ’ is extremely effective. Scouriug' Soap.—Although of comparatively recent introduction into this country, scouring soap occupies a prominent place in domestic economy. No housewife, indeed, who aspires to deserve the name, or who longs to see her home look constantly bright and cheerful, should ever dream now of letting her kitchen go unrepresented by such an in- valuable cleansing agent. Used as directed as much can be effected in five minutes as in five hours with old-fashioned soap and water, scrub- bing-brush and elbow grease. ‘ Sapolio,’ as we can testify from ex- perience, does all that is claimed for it. For cleansing culinary utensils, greasy saucepans, kitchen tables, painted wood-work, floor cloths, marble mantel, etc. it is simply perfection. Care, however, should al- ways be observed to use it according to the directions on the wrapper. Soup-Plates.—The frequent contretemps at table when soup is being served has led to an attempt to alter the shape, the bowl being now surrounded by a wide and somewhat deeply-grooved rim inclining upwards. Stains.—Several articles adapted to the purpose of removing fruit- stains from tablecloths, etc., are competing for supremacy ; but about the best we have tried is the ‘Anti-stains Bleaching Liquid.’ It will also restore discoloured marble and ivory handles, piano-keys, and such- like. Table Decorations.—Neumann’s self-acting portable fountains, decorated with ferns and flowers, and kept in constant action by insert- ing at intervals a pair of ornamental reservoirs fixed beneath the stand, form the latest attraction in our dining and drawing-rooms. When in play the effect of these fountains is extremely pleasing. Palms and and other hardy-plants have also come much into fashion, especially since Mr. It. C. Gardner, of Stamford Hill, London, conceived the happy idea of forwarding a dozen useful-sized plants to any address in the United Kingdom, on receipt of 20s., or half the number for Us. African everlasting flowers, reeds, and grasses, come in handy during the winter season, as they form bright and beautiful colour combina- tions, and can be used with evergreens in arranging striking con- trasts.