PAET VI. POULTRY AND GAME. Chicken & la Marengo.—Cut a chicken or fowl into neat joints, season with salt and cayenne, and fry it till done in about A pint of oil or butter. When half cooked, add a clove of garlic, 2 shallots, and a faggot of sweet herbs. Drain the meat from the fat, and mix with the latter a tablespoonful of flour, and, very gradually, sufficient good stock to make the sauce of the consistence of thick cream. Stir it till thick and smooth. Put the chicken on a hot dish, strain the sauce over, and serve. Time, about A hour to fry the chicken. Curried. Chicken.—Cut the remains of a cold fowl into neat joints. Fry a minced apple and an onion sliced, in some hot butter or lard. When lightly browned, press them through a sieve and put the pulp into a saucepan with a pint of good gravy. Thicken this with a dessert- spoonful each of curry-powder, curry-paste, and ground rice; boil gently until smooth and thick. Put in the pieces of chicken and let them remain until quite hot ; squeeze a little lemon-juice over, and just before serving, add a tablespoonful of thick cream. Serve the curry with rice piled round the dish. Devilled Chicken.—Remove the skin from wings or legs, score the flesh deeply in several places, and rub in a mixture of salt, pepper, cayenne, mustard, anchovy, and butter. This should be done over- night. Broil 10 minutes over a clear fire, and serve on a napkin. Chicken Fricassee.— Cut the fowl into 6 pieces, reserving the gib- lets for stock. Pour cold water over, salt and boil. When cooked, take the pieces out of the broth, place in a colander, and wipe dry with a clean cloth. Return them to the saucepan, with some butter, an onion, a large carrot, sweet herbs, and a few peppercorns. When done, place in a colander, but keep hot. Run the broth through a sieve and boil it up, with a few mushrooms. Beat the yolks of 2 eggs, and stir all the time, mixing the broth with them. Dish up Mayonnaise sauce and the juice of a lemon. Chicken Minced.—Cut off the meat from a cold fowl and mince finely. Put a breakfast-cupful of white stock into a saucepan, thicken with a little flour, and boil for 20 minutes, then add 6 mushrooms Petroleum Oil Stoves are the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. One of Wright and Butler’s Patont ‘ Acme Combination ’ Oil Cookors will cook a dinner of threo.courses for a family of six persons at a cost of less than ouo penny for fuel. No ashes, no dirt. Illustrated Catalogue froo from Wright and Butler, Limited, Birmingham.— Set Advertitement.