ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKEEV. 96 Riz au Gras.—Wash h pound of best rice, dry well, 3 quarts of good stock broth, and sprinkle in the rice ; cover and boil. As soon as the rice has risen, check the boiling with a small cupful of cold broth. Then let it boil up again. Continue this checking and boiling until the rice cracks. Add seasoning, and boil again. Be careful the rice does not run to pap, as this would be a great defect in riz au gras. Aroce Doce.—This is a delicious Portuguese preparation of nee. Stew gently for J hour 8 ounces of Carolina rice in 2£ pints of milk ; add 8 ounces of white sugar and 2 ounces of almonds, blanched and chopped small. Let the whole boil until nearly dry, stirring frequently. Then turn into pudding plates, shake it smooth in the plates, and sift powdered cinnamon over the surface, which will give the appearance of baked pudding to each plateful. Aroce Doce is eaten cold, and will remain good for a day or two. Rice, Sweet.—(1) To 2 ounces of rice, well washed, in a stew-pan, add i pint of milk, a lump of butter (size of a walnut), a little powdered cinnamon, and a saltspoonful of sugar ; when in rather thick pulp, add yolks of 2 eggs. To be eaten either hot or cold.—(2) Prepare as above, but add a tablespoonful of tapioca and a little more milk ; place half in a dish, then some of Southwell’s apricot marma- lade, or any jam, put the other half over, place in the oven, sugar over, bake 20 minutes. Rice, with. Fruit and. Meringues.— Boil a cupful of rice tender in enough milk to leave it quite stiff when done ; mix with 5 yolks of eggs, and flavour with lemon. Put an inch layer of rice on a dish, edged with puff-paste, and put on another inch layer of Southwell’s preserve, say apple ; repeat several times, each time using another kind of preserve. Give the dish a nice pyramidal shape. Beat the whites of the eggs into a very stiff froth ; mix quickly with as much powdered loaf sugar, flavoured with lemon, as will make it rather stiff. Throw this in rocky lumps all over the pyramid, sprinkle coloured comfits on it, and bake in a very cool oven till the meringues are quite dry. Rice Milk.—Boil J pound of rice in 1 quart of water, with a little cinnamon, till the water evaporates; but take care it does not bum. Add 3 pints of milk, with the yolk of an egg well beaten up, and keep stirring. When it boils, pour out and sweeten to taste. Rice Snowballs.—Boil 1 pint of rice in 2 quarts of water, with a teaspoonful of salt, till quite soft ; rinse out some teacups with cold water, fill each with the boiled rice, and when quite cold, turn out on a glass dish. Make a custard of 3 egg yolks, 1 pint of milk, a teaspoon- ful of cornflour, and white sugar to sweeten; flavour with lemon. Turn it over the rice \ hour before serving. Semolina.—Put li pints of milk over the fire, and, when boiling, stir in \ cupful of semolina, and continue to stir over the fire for 10 minutes ; then mould and place aside to cool; turn out, and serve with sugar or jam round. Souffle, Simple.—Sweeten J pint of milk, and flavour with Lang- dale’s lemon or vanilla essence ; boil, and stir in quickly when boiling a teaspoonful of flour which has been smoothly mixed with another £ pint of milk. Add a good-sized lump of fresh butter, draw the sauce- pan aside, and stir the batter till it thickens, then pour into a basin. When nearly cold, add a dessertspoonful of brandy and the well-beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Butter a cake-tin or deep pie-dish which the batter