KITCHEN AND DOMESTIC REQUISITES. 135 in other respects, is complete without its set of Avery’s scales and weights, as shown in the illustration below. Not an hour passes but the housewife feels their want acutely, Quantities, on the exactness of which depend the successful turning out, perhaps the edibility itself, of the dish, have to be guessed at; the joint from the butcher comes in without a ticket, its weight is unknown, and through absence of this knowledge it gets cooked to rags, or else arrives at table, the second cut displaying thenever-to-be-forgotlen appetite-destroying blue tint. If anything, underdone poultry is even more irritating, and we will defy the most expert of guesswork cooks to avoid constant mishaps unless a good set of scales forms part of her kitchen furniture. There is positively no excuse for their not being bought. Those made by Avery only cost at ironmongers from 14s. to 17s. to weigh 7 lb., and from 21s. to 25s. 6d. to weigh 28 lb. ; a 14 lb. set can be had at from 17s. up to 20s. for the very best. A very few weeks service will repay the outlay. Steak Tenderer.—Performs with one movement of a lever what several minutes beating with a heavy knife will scarcely compass. The price —20s.—is, however, against this innovation. Stove Polishing.—One of the saddest eyesores in any home, and one over which the quick-eyed British matron grieves not a trifle, is a rusty-brown, dull-looking firegrate. For this the housemaid or wife gets blamed, but the fault is not always hers. To ensure brilliancy where blacklead is relied upon—and what, let us ask, looks nicer than a brightly-polished fireplace or stove in which one’s resemblance can almost be seen?—an article of undoubted merit must be used. Such is not always to be had, especially at the smaller oilshops and grocers. Com- petition and the eagerness to keep pace with the ‘ stores ’ in price, has brought into the market innumerable inferior black leads, the use of which leads to grumbling and discontent. Perhaps altogether there are half a dozen satisfactory articles. The housekeeper may therefore be glad to know of one that will never fail. We allude to the 1 Nickel Silver ’ make, which amply justifies its name. Washing.—Where starch is used by the housekeeper in preference to any of the modern, and sometimes not very reliable, substitutes, it is essential to procure a sound article, much rubbish being now sold by grocers and oilmen. There are several valuable starches, Kingsford’s Oswego, for example, which has been used at home for years, gives unfailing satisfaction. It is extremely economical—2 ounces dissolved in 1 quart of water will starch a dozen shirts, or two or three dozen smaller articles well—and is free from all injurious adulterations. It can be applied in either of the two following ways: (1) Dissolve thoroughly in a little cold water, and add boiling water to the desired consistency ; (2) dissolve in luke-warm water, and add cold water. In Avery’s Household Coffee-Mill can he obtained at any Co-operative Store, or from any Ironmonger, or of tho manufacturers in London and Hirmingharu. Price packed in cardboard box, 8s. each.