ENGLISH AND FBENCH OOOKEBT. 3G Mutton Hashed.—Cut your mutton in slices, put in a pint of gravy or broth into a stewpan, with 1 spoonful of ketchup, and 1 of browning ; slice in an onion, a little pepper and salt; put it over the fire, and thicken with flour and butter. When it boils, put in your mutton, keep shaking it till it is thoroughly hot; put it in a soup-dish, and serve. Mutton k l’Indienne.—Put in a stewpan 1 ounce of butter, and 1 pound of lean mutton (all meat) ; cut in dice, set on the fire ; stir with a wooden spoon till hardly any gravy remains. Add a table- spoonful of curry powder, and the same quantity of flour ; mix well. Add \ pint of water, 2 saltspoonfuls of salt, 3 ditto of sugar; let simmer gently till tender, which depends what part you use. Stir occasionally to prevent burning ; add a little more water if too thick. Cut and put in, just before serving, 3 hard-boiled eggs in large dice ; serve rice, plain boiled, with it. Mutton Irish Stew (1).—2 Spanish onions, 3 carrots, 2 ounces butter, 3 large leeks, 3 turnips, and 6 potatoes. Cut the Spanish onions and carrots in slices, and braise them in a saucepan with the butter and a cup of water for an hour. Then add the leeks, turnips, and potatoes cut in pieces with 1 pint of boiling water. Stew the whole for half an hour, or till tender, stirring frequently. Season to taste with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and marjoram. Irish Stew (2).—Any kind of cold meat will make Irish stew ; but mutton, either roasted or boiled, is best. Cut it in slices, pepper, salt, and flour it. Peel an onion, put it with the bones (and any gravy that may be left in the house) into a saucepan with a pint of water and a little salt ; set it on the fire to stew for about an hour. When the potatoes are ready, mash, or crush about half of them, which add to the water and onion ; then put in the meat, and let the whole stew very gently for 5 or 10 minutes, and it will be ready for table. Those who prefer the additions of anchovies, mushrooms, ketchups, spices, frying the meat first in butter, etc., etc., can so prepare it; we give both plans. Stew (de la Viande bis Cuite).—As in making Irish stew, any kind of meat will suffice ; but mutton, either boiled or roasted, will be found the best for the purpose. Cut the meat in slices, pepper, salt, and flour them, and lay them in a dish. Strew mixed pickles over the meat. Then take a teacup half full of water; add to it a small quantity of the vinegar belonging to the pickles, a little mushroom ketchup, if approved of, and any gravy that may be set by for use. Stir all together, and pour it over the meat. Set it before the fire in a Dutch oven, or in the oven of the kitchen range, as may be most convenient, for about half an hour before dinner-time. Mutton Kidneys, Broiled or Boasted.—Split the kidneys in two, without separating the halves ; peel off the thin outer skin ; pepper and salt them slightly. Broil them, laying the flat sides first on the gridiron, to keep the gravy in ; or fry them. The halves are placed flat, side by side, and kept so by running a small tinned iron skewer through them, and they are then roasted in a Dutch oven before the fire, with the skewers still sticking in them. If lightly cooked they will be rosy and tender inside. Between putting them to the fire and taking them from it very little time should elapse. Immediately before serving put on each half-kidney a bit of fresh butter as big as a hazel-