PART VII. VEGETABLES AND SALADS. Cooking Vegetables.—There are a few simple rules in cooking vegetables which should be remembered. Put green vegetables into fast-boiling water, and boil quickly with no lid on the pan. Put old potatoes into cold water. Put dried beans and peas into cold water, and soak before being boiled. Vegetables should be taken up as soon as they are done. Soda should be used only where vegetables are old or tough. A tablespoonful of salt is sufficient for J gallon of water. Artichokes.—Wash in several waters, cut off the stems and leaves at the bottom, and plunge into boiling water, adding \ gallon of water, 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt, and soda to cover a shilling. Boil quickly until tender, with the saucepan lid either raised or removed. When done drain for a minute or two, and serve on a napkin, with a tureen of melted butter. Boiled Jerusalem Artichokes.—After well washing and peel- ing, shape into a round or oval form, and put into a saucepan with just enough water to cover, adding salt as above. Boil gently until tender, and serve as above. Asparagus Boiled.—Cut the stalks of equal lengths, rejecting the woody parts, and gently scrape the white that remains. Throw them into water; then tie in a bunch with muslin or tape, put into boiling water slightly salted. Boil from 20 to 40 minutes according to age, serve with butter on slices of toast. Asparagus and Eggs.—Cut the asparagus into pieces J inch long, and boil for 15 minutes. Have a cupful of melted butter ready in a saucepan, and put in the asparagus when it is drained dry. Heat this until boiling point, and pour into a baking dish. Break 5 or 6 eggs carefully over the surface, put a piece of butter upon each, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and put it into the oven until the eggs have set. Broad Beans.—Put the beans into boiling water with a little salt, boil very quickly for 20 minutes ; drain, and pour parsley sauce over. French. Beans.—Only the ends and stalks require to be taken off when beans are young. Put them as they are prepared into cold water. Petroleum Oil Stoves aro tho cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. The Patent Portable Oil Cooking Stoves of Wright and Butler’s make are the best; they have improvements which render them oasy to manage, and their general efficiency is unequalled, illustrated Catalogue free from Wright and Butler, Limited, Birmingham.—See Advertisement.