49 FISH-COOKERT. oil, a clove of garlic, 2 bay-leaves, a few slices of lemon, 2 or 3 tomatoes, or a little tomato sauce, as much powdered saffron as will go on the point of a table-knife, and, lastly, a glass of white wine or Madeira. Put in sufficient stock to cover the whole, and boil from 10 to 15 minutes, skimming carefully the whole time. When ready to serve, throw in a handful of chopped parsley. It is usually sent to table in 2 separate dishes, the fish in one, and the sauce in a small deep dish. Baked Cod.—Take the middle of a large cod and soak it in cold water with some salt for half an hour. Wipe it dry, and stuff with a forcemeat made with a teacupful of breadcrumbs, to which pepper and salt have been added, some finely-chopped pork, and a very small quantity of minced onion with a tablespoonful of mixed sweet herbs, and a teaspoonful of Brand’s A1 sauce. Place the fish in a baking-dish, and pour over it thin melted butter, seasoned with the juice of half a lemon and a bit of parsley. Bake with moderate heat for about an hour, or longer if required, basting the fish frequently to prevent its browning too rapidly. When done, dish, strain the gravy over it, and serve hot. Crab, Dressed.—Break the claws and remove the meat, mince it, season with grated nutmeg, pepper, salt, and a little vinegar, mix with a few breadcrumbs and a piece of butter, well stirring the mixture over the fire ; and with this fill the shells, previously cleaned, bake, and serve hot. Curried Cod.—Cut some steaks of cod about three-quarters of an inch thick, slice a number of onions, and fry them both a good brown colour ; put the fish in a white gravy, and a tablespoonful of curry- powder and a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper ; thicken with three tea- spoonfuls of cream, or condensed Swiss milk, a little butter, and a little flour, salt to taste. Salmon, soles, and whiting are excellent prepared in the same way. Cod Cutlets.—Take about a pound and a half of the tail of a fine cod, with a sharp knife divide the flesh from the bone lengthways ; cut it into neat pieces, and flatten with a knife. Dip in egg, then in crumbs mixed with a little flour, pepper, and salt. Fry the cutlets in a wire-basket in plenty of fat, or they can be done in a frying-pan ; they should be done quickly~to be crisp. Cod (Scollops of) en bonne Morue.—Work 3 spoonfuls of white fish sauce over the fire with a good bit of butter, seasoned with pepper and salt; then put in some flakes of cold cod, stir them about in the sauce, and then let them remain till cold. Lay some fried bread round the edge of a dish, put the flakes or scallops of cod in the centre, smooth them with a knife, stew breadcrumbs over, and brown it with the salamander. Garnish fancifully with toasted bread. Cod, Salt.—The flesh of good salt cod is very white and the flakes large ; the skin dark, almost back. Soak in milk and water, or water alone, for several hours ; put the fish into a kettle with plenty of cold water ; set it on the fire ; when nearly boiling, skim and let it simmer gently till done. Serve egg sauce, and garnish with parsnips or potatoes. Croquettes of Fish..—-Mix over the fire 1 teaspoonful of flour, 1 ounce of butter, and J gill of cream. Add, off the fire, the yolk of 1 egg, a little seasoning, and \ pound of cold dressed fish beaten to a paste. Let the mixture cool, and form it into balls ; let these be egged and breaded. Fry to a nice brown in hot fat, and serve with gravy, 4