ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 32 specialities, including Macaroni, Vermicelli, Cagliari, Genoa, and Italian paste, all of which are, or should be, made from the hard grain of Sicilian wheat, so rich in nitrogenous albumen. The value of macaroni as daily aliment is as yet indifferently appreciated here ; but, in good truth, ‘ a sparghetti,’ which can be prepared from either ordinary pipe-macaroni or paste, should invariably precede dinner when fish is out of season or not to be had. Sparghetti can be made so readily and cheaply in the Italian fashion (see recipes), and is, moreover, so nutri- tious and satisfying, that its regular introduction at table tends largely to economy as well as health. Hominy, or Corn Grits, an American preparation of Indian corn, has been before the public some little time now ; properly cooked in milk, and sweetened with sweet white sauce, it comprises about the proper proportion of the essential food elements. Prepared Groats, Emden Groats, and Prepared Barley, and many similar flours, sold in tins and packets, are chiefly infant’s foods, and are referred to in a later section. Vegetables. Although more serious evil is wrought by excessive meat-eating than by the excessive eating of vegetables food, the general opinion that both these foods, each in its proportion, and neither in excess, are most effective in preserving a high standard of vigorous strength and lasting health is well founded. The great rule, as Dr. Abernethy says, is to adapt the qualities of the food to the indicated requirements of the stomach, therein echoing the sense of Lord Bacon’s observation when he said, what you find good for you ‘ is the best physic to preserve health, and it is a safer conclusion to say, “ This agreeth not well with me, therefore I will discontinue it,” than this, “ I find no offence of this, therefore I may use itfor the strength of nature in youth passes over many excuses which are owing a man till his age.'’ Persons of sedentary habits wisely partake of a larger proportion of vegetable food than more active workers should indulge in ; but those whose digestive powers are impaired must remember that many vegetables are less digestible than meats, and should accordingly be eaten of sparingly. Potatoes, however well cooked, are far from a nourishing food. They are watery, contain a high percentage of starch, and some sugar and mucilage, together with a marked deficiency in flesh and force pro- ducers. Starch and gum sustain the respiratory processes, and are valuable addenda to other foods ; but fibrin and the ‘ plastic material ’ of the analytical chemist are required to build up the muscular and other constituents of living animal organisms. As an addition to more nutritious diet, the potato is inestimable, but by itself has not inaptly been termed ‘a miserable food.’ To retain the highest amount of nutriment in potatoes, they should be boiled or baked in their ‘jackets