104 ENGLISH AND FBENCH COOKEKT. a small red centre of tongue may be used. Again, in the case of turning out a tongue, now a popular and standing dish at breakfast-time, how much better does this tongue look when surrounded by a neat paper frill than when placed on the table bare ! Beef Stew, with Tinned Mushrooms.—To 1 pound of beef put a pint of mushrooms, pare them, cut the ends off, and place in cold water. Melt a piece of butter in a stewpan and place the mushrooms in it, with a little pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon. Simmer until tender; add a cupful of good stock. Cut the beef into small pieces and flour well. Time to stew mushrooms, 25 minutes, and 4 minutes with the meat. Boiled Mutton and Caper Sauce Take the top off the tin and place in a 'saucepan of boiling water. When quite hot through, turn it on to a dish and serve with turnips, onions, potatoes, and caper sauce. Beef or Mutton Curry.—Cut the meat into small squares with a small onion chopped fine, place in a saucepan with a cupful of good stock, and put in a dessertspoonful of mulligatawny paste. Serve with rice very hot. Time, 10 minutes. - Roast Tinned Beef.—Take the meat out of the tin without breaking, remove all gravy and fat, tie it with string tightly, flour well and hang before a brisk fire for l hour, baste it with the gravy and fat taken from it ; make gravy in the usual way. Brawn forms an agreeable change to the breakfast or luncheon table. Tinned brawn possesses one great advantage, that until the tin is opened it will keep good for years. In carving always use an extra sharp knife. Francatelli recommends the following brawn sauce to be used with cold brawn. Mix together 1 tablespoonful of moist sugar, 2 of French vinegar, 3 of salad oil, a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, some pepper and salt, and serve. Probably many persons would prefer less vinegar. A very useful way of using up the remains of brawn is to add it to odds and ends of meats, such as cold fowl, cold ham, mutton, beef, etc., and let it eke out in making rissoles. Brawn sand- wiches also form a capital relish. Among the special brawns which we have tried, Carpenter’s 1 Sutherland ’ brand has given the most general satisfaction, and can always be relied upon. As much cannot be said for imported articles. Potato Pie.—Cut the beef into small pieces, lay them in a pie- dish with some good stock, pepper, salt, and a little onion, parsley and mixed herbs. Boil some potatoes, mash them, and lay them over the meat, about 1J inches thick. Brown in an oven about 20 minutes. Rissoles.—Mince 1 pound of meat very fine, and J pound of bread- crumbs. Mix thoroughly with a little dripping, parsley, mixed herbs, a small onion chopped fine, pepper and salt. Make into small pats, put them in egg and breadcrumb and fry in boiling fat. They may be served with fried parsley or a little thick gravy. Time to fry, 10 minutes. Tinned Tomatoes.—Tinned tomatoes are exceedingly nice served as they are. Open the tin, take the tomatoes out carefully without breaking, put them in the oven, with pepper, salt, and butter, to heat them through, occasionally basting them with their own juice ; then serve.