ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 74 piece of bladder fastened with a piece of string. Let the jar stand until it is cold. Then add some good stock, and let the hare stew gently for two or three hours, taking care that it does not boil. Civet of Hare.—Cut a hare in pieces, or take the remains of one previously roasted ; put it into a stewpan with some fresh butter, a few slices of bacon, sweet herbs, and chopped mushrooms, or champignons ; when they are thoroughly heated, add a little flour beaten up with water, pepper, and ^ pint of white wine; when done, pour over it a thick sauce made of the liver. Partridges aux Choux.—Truss as for roasting, cover the breast with a slice of bacon, and put inside each a bit of butter floured and seasoned with salt, pepper, and lemon thyme rubbed fine ; fry for a short time, put into a stewpan with a little good gravy, a slice of lean ham, a glass of white wine, a little cayenne pepper, a shallot, and an anchovy chopped fine. Just before serving add the hearts of 3 or 4 cabbages previously boiled. Stir all together till the birds are tender, and serve without the bacon. Partridges au Gratin.—Birds roasted and left from a former day may be pleasantly re-dished thus. Melt in a dish that will stand fire a slice of butter, strew in some grated breadcrumbs, a little parsley, and 2 shallots shredded very fine, with salt and pepper. Let this brown over the fire ; cut the birds into pieces, and having warmed them in some stock or gravy, with a little salt, pepper, and a squeeze of lemon- juice, put them on the ‘ gratin,’ and serve with some crumbs of bread browned over them. Roast Partridge.—Cut off the head, and leave enough skin on the neck to skewer securely. Draw the legs close to the breast, pass the trussing-needle and string through the pinions and the middle joints of the thighs, and tie and skewer the legs. If the heads are left on, they should be brought round, and turned under the wing, with the bill laid on the breast. Put the bud down before a clear fire, baste liberally with butter, and a few minutes before taking up flour well, to brown nicely. The bird may be dished upon fried breadcrumbs, or upon a slice of buttered toast, which has been soaked in the gravy in the pan, or may be put on a hot dish, and garnished with watercresses. Brown gravy and bread-sauce should be sent to table ; bacon, tied round the birds before they are put down to the fire, will greatly im- prove their flavour. Time to roast: 30 to 40 minutes. Roast Pheasant.—Truss firmly, and either lard or tie round the breast a slice of fat bacon. Flour well, put before a clear fire, and baste liberally. When done, remove the bacon, serve on a hot dish, and garnish with watercresses. Send good brown gravy and bread-sauce to table. Time, § hour to roast a good-sized pheasant. Roast Plover.—Truss with the legs close to the body, and the feet pressing upon the thighs ; bring the head round under the wing. . Put down to a clear fire. Lay in the pan a slice of toast, first moistening it in gravy, and baste the plover liberally. Cook 15 to 20 minutes. Be- fore it is done dredge a little flour over. Spread the trail which has dropped from the bird evenly upon the toast, and serve the bird upon it. Send up with melted butter. Rabbit Boiled.—Steep the heads for a few minutes in a saucepan of boiling water, to prevent the disagreeable appearance they otherwise have in cutting up; they will take about half an hour boiling, according