ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 130 finding their way out of the kitchen into the fitting-rooms, and without substituting for one unpleasant smell another hardly preferable, the easiest and simplest way is to use a few drops of ‘ Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier,’ We know nothing that is so rapidly and thoroughly effective. A dirty sink is cleansed and sweetened as if by a miracle. It is in many other ways a very desirable kitchen requisite, for a few drops added to the water, with which it at once mixes, and used for scrubbing the kitchen floor, will be a warning to quit to beetles and cock- roaches on which they will lose no time in acting. It is fatal to all kinds of vermin that come in contact with it, and renders harmless decaying refuse of all kinds—is in fact one of the very best disinfectants we know, and has more household uses than there is either space or time to enumerate. Egg-Beater.—By far the best is the one in use at the establish- ments of the * Express ’ and other 1 dairies ’ where egg and milk forms a feature. This contrivance consists of a hollow tube closed at one end, into which the egg is broken and some milk poured. A finely-perfor- ated crusher, which fits the vessel tight, is then passed a few times np and down, when assimilation is complete. The process is practically instantaneous. Egg-Whisk.—For whites of eggs the ‘ Dover ’ egg-beater is about the best, but whatever whisk is used be sure the vessel in which the eggs are broken is quite cold, and no trace of yolk is present, for other- wise the whites will never froth properly. A cold place is best to whisk them in. Food. Preservation.—Noteworthy among improvements aiming in this direction are Johnson’s Patent Food Preservers, which absolutely preserve milk and other perishable articles cool and fresh for several days, and free from all outside contamination. These preservers are made in several sizes and suitable forms, and consist of two vessels, an inner and an outer, with an intervening space -which should be partly filled with water. Into this the lid-rim dips, thus forming a water seal to exclude the air. For ill-ventilated and sick-rooms this preserver is just what is wanted, as used with hot instead of cold water, infants food, etc., can be kept warm for a considerable time. Fruit-stoning.—Stoneless cherry and plum-pie can now be readily had by using a small and uncostly apparatus known as the ‘ Perfect ’ Fruit-stoner, which is made in several convenient sizes. The fruit having been placed in position, stalk upwards, a single pressure of the thumb stones it instantly, without seriously disfiguring its appearance. The appliance is effective in dealing with all stone-fruit. Heat Conductors.—These can now be obtained at any ironmonger for 2s. 6d. a pair, and in cooking before a fire will save Jth in time, Jth in firing, and perhaps 1 pound of meat in every 12 cooked. Kitchen Ranges.—There is no item in the household equal in importance to the kitchen range. A good one means comfort and economy ; a bad one discomfort, waste, and the endless troubles and difficulties which bad cooking and unreliability as regards time cannot fail to produce. When we bear in mind the cost of the extra quantity of coals an imperfect range will burn in the course of 12 months, the folly of tolerating such an appliance is recognised at once, without strengthening the case by referring to any of the other points already- mentioned. Never come to terms with a bad range on any ground.