PART III. SOUPS AND SAUCES. Soups should be amongst the everyday requisites in the house of every thrifty housewife. Stock Pots considered. How many a mistress in a comfortable home stands aghast with shame and vexation every now and then when she opens the pantry-door. 1 There are found scraps of meat, half-picked bones, crusts of bread, basins of dripping, slices of uneaten pudding, all mouldering away.’ She looks at them piteously, as she thinks of her baker’s and butcher’s bills, and the wickedness of wastefulness. The bones will, she knows, find their way to the marine store, and the few pence they may fetch will not go into her pocket; and in despair she gives an order to have all these remnants cleared away out of sight, and perhaps in her heart resolves to keep a sharper look-out upon the consumption in future. What is true of such a home is true in a lesser degree of those of a more humble description. There is the same cruel waste going on through ignorance of the means of its prevention, and the perplexed, untrained wife, catering perhaps for a large family with a small income, contrives most sadly to waste a very large percentage of the food she buys. At first she wonders why it is, and sighs over the fact; at last she gets used to it, and without a thought or a pang throws bones into the dust-hole, gives scraps of gristle and fat to the dog or cat, and dry crusts into the hands of the first beggar that knocks at the door, who, directly he is out of sight, throws them into the gutter, as she knows he probably will ; yet she gives them still, more with the desire to get rid of them than to afford anyone relief. Now if soup were in request, and its food-value fairly understood, this Petroleum Oil Stoves aro the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. For boiling or stewing, Wright and Butler’s Patent 1 Acme’ Stoves are the ‘ very thing ’ required. They cost per hour from the smallest fraction of a Penny. They do not smoke nor smell, neithor do they make any dirt. Illus- trated Catalogue free from Wright and Butler, Limited, Birmingham.—See Ad- verlUement.