PART XII. COOKING FOR INVALIDS AND THE NURSERY. By the light of Liebig’s researches and his successors’ invalid and nursery cookery has been revolutionised within recent years, and nearly as much in the cooking as in the materials. From the manner of heating the first food for baby, to the care necessary, as in typhoid, of preventing a single particle of solid food entering the patient’s diet, careful cooking is one of the first things in maintaining health and in recovering it. But general as this improved knowledge is, there may be no harm in repeating one or two of the most common errors, pointed out in ‘Notes on Nursing,’ respecting sick diet. One is the belief that beef-tea is the most nourishing of all articles. ‘ There is a certain nourishing quality in beef-tea—we do not know what—as there is in tea ; it may safely be given in almost any inflam- matory disease, but is little to be depended upon with the healthy or convalescent where much nourishment is required. Again, it is an ever-ready saw that an egg is equivalent to a pound of meat, whereas it is not so at all. Also, it is seldom noticed with how many patients, particularly of nervous or bilious temperament, eggs disagree. All puddings made with eggs are distasteful to them in consequence. An egg whipped up with wine is often the only form in which they can take this kind of nourishment. Arrowroot is another grand dependence of the nurse. To mix the patient’s wine in it is all very well ; but it is nothing but starch and water. Flour is both more nutritive, and less liable to ferment, and is preferable wherever it can be used. ‘ Again, milk and the preparations of milk are a most important article of food for the sick. There is nearly as much nourishment in J pint of milk as in \ lb. of meat. Butter is the lightest kind of animal fat, and though it wants some of the things which there are in milk, yet it is most valuable both in itself and in enabling the patient to eat more bread. Flour, oats, groats, rice, barley, and their kind, are, as we have already said, preferable in all their preparations to all the preparations of arrowroot, sago, tapioca, and their kind. Cream, in Petroleum Oil Stoves arc the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. Why buy bakers' bread, with its alum and other adulterations ? Get one of Wright and Butler’s ‘ Little Bakers ’ which anyone can use, and make your own home-made bread. Illustrated Catalogue free from Wright and Butlor, Limited, Birmingham.—See Advertisement.