ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 94 apples, pared and minced, the currants washed and picked, the raisins stoned and chopped fine, the moist sugar, citron, orange and lemon peel cut fine, the nutmegs grated, the salt, ginger, allspice, and cloves all ground fine, and the lemon, with the rind grated. Mix all together with the brandy and sherry, or any white wine. Put into a jar and keep in a cool place. Most housekeepers, however, prefer nowadays to purchase ready-made mincemeat, and considering the really excellent article Messrs. Southwell and Co. put up in 1 pound and 2 pound jars, and at a price much below the cost of home-making, this method may be safely recommended to all who have to consider time and expense. Omelette, Cooking an.—Lady Barker says : ‘All it requires is vigilance and knack. Don’t over-beat your eggs, just whisk them up (3 are quite enough for a manageable omelette) lightly and swiftly. Beat in with them a pinch of salt, a little pepper, some finely-chopped parsley, or a spoonful of grated cheese. Almost anything mixes well in an omelette, provided it is cut fine enough. Have the frying-pan ready with butter enough in it to cover its surface when melted. Into the clear liquid butter pour the eggs, gently stirring the mixture with a wooden spoon. The omelette will set almost immediately, and then the stirring should be discontinued, and gentle shaking carried on incessantly ; the edges being turned up with the spoon every now and then. Four minutes should be enough to cook the inside thoroughly, leaving the outside of a rich yellowish-brown colour, but the time re- quired to attain this result entirely depends on the fire. Too fierce a fire may burn the omelette before it has time to set, and yet a clear fire is necessary. As soon as it begins to assume the shape of a small plate and the colour of a golden pippin, double it over with the spoon, and serve it in a hot dish. The only things requisite in an omelette are presence of mind and promptness of action. Timidity and hesitation have ruined many an omelette.’ According to Soyer, the great point is, if in an iron pan, it should be very clean and free from damp, which sometimes comes out of the iron when placed on the fire. The best plan is to put the pan on the fire with a little fat, and let it get quite hot, or until the fat burns ; then remove, and wipe clean with a dry cloth, put in clean butter or oil, and you will make the omelette to per- fection. Omelette aux Fines Herbes.—Beat 4 or 6 eggs lightly, and mix in a small pinch of salt and pepper, a heaped teaspoonful of finely- chopped parsley, and J a teaspoonful of minced onions, cloves, or shallots. Dissolve 2 ounces of fresh butter into a hot frying-pan, over a gentle fire. Pour in the mixture, and proceed as already described. Serve very hot on a round of buttered toast. Some persons fry on both sides like a pancake ; others prefer more parsley. Omelettes may be exten- sively varied. A little minced ham, or cooked vegetables, or fish-sauce, or Southwell’s marmalade, may be put in either with the eggs or placed in their centre when they are partially cooked. Time to fry, 4 to 6 minutes. Omelette, Sweet (1).—To 6 well-whisked eggs add 1?. teaspoon- fuls of milk, a teaspoonful of sugar, a pinch of salt, and beat well together ; put some butter into a frying-pan ; when hot, pour in the omelette mixture and fry carefully. When done, put in the middle any of Southwell’s preserves made hot, double over on a plate, and serve up with sifted sugar over.