ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. Stew till extremely tender ; then take out the flat bones, and remove all the fat from the soup. Either serve that.and the meat in a tureen, or the soup alone, and the meat on a dish, garnished with some vege- tables. Small suet dumplings may be added to the soup. Take J pint of the soup and mix it with a spoonful of ketchup, a glass of port wine, a teaspoonful of made mustard, a little flour, a bit of butter, and salt; boil all together a few minutes, then pour it round the meat. Beef Croquettes.—Mince some cold roast or boiled beef, add one quarter as much potato, a little marjoram, parsley, and thyme, with pepper and salt to taste, and gravy sufficient to moisten, Mix with one beaten egg. Eorm into desired shape, dip each croquette into beaten egg and breadcrumbs. Fry quickly, and serve hot. Beef Curry.—Brown 1 or 2 onions in a frying-pan with butter. Mix equal quantities of curry-powder and paste, about a tablespoonful or rather less, with a teaspoonful of ground rice made smooth with butter. Mix with a little salt, and add a breakfastcupful of good gravy. Add, cut up into pieces, about 1 pound of beef, and allow it to simmer gently for about 40 minutes, stirring frequently. Add cocoa- nut milk or the juice of a lemon. Beef a la Houssard.—Take about 2 pounds of beef, remove all bones, beat it with a rolling-pin, and lard it with ham or bacon. Lay it, with a seasoning of chopped onion, pepper, and salt, into a stewpan with a tight-fitting cover, and put into an oven, or by the side of the fire, and let it steam in its own gravy. Take care that it does not burn. With a strong heat it will be ready in 2 or 3 hours ; serve with the gravy from the meat. Beef, Minced.—Place a spoonful of flour in a pan, and brown it with some butter. Add a pound of cold roast beef finely minced, some gravy, or stock broth, with a glass of wine, or a dash of vinegar or lemon, and season with herbs chopped up, and salt and pepper. When nearly ready, put in a little butter, and mix it with the other materials. This dish may be sent to table either with eggs ranged round the dish, or with pieces of bread fried crisp in butter. Beef, Mirliton of.—Take about 1 pound of cold beef ; cut 4 onions into slices, and fry them in a stewpan with 1 ounce of butter. Add 1 tablespoonful of flour (after the onions are well browned). Mix with £ pint of good brown gravy, water, and ketchup ; season with pepper and salt ; stir over the fire to boil for 10 minutes, then pour them on the slices of cold beef already arranged in a dish that will stand the fire. Strew some raspings of bread over the surface. Bake for J hour, and serve while quite hot. Beef Olives.—Take H pounds of rump steak cut thin, trim and cut in several pieces, beating each to make them flat. Brush over each piece with beaten egg, sprinkle with chopped herbs and seasoning. Boll up the pieces of steak neatly, and skewer or bind with thread, and pack them tightly in a small saucepan. Cover them with 2 or 3 thin rashers of bacon, and barely cover with stock. Cook very slowly for about 2 hours, then dish the meat, first removing the threads or skewers. Thicken and flavour the gravy with roux and some piquant, sauce or ketchup, pour over the olives, and serve. Beef Fritters.—Mix to a smooth batter 4 pound of flour with a teacupful of water ; melt the butter and stir into the batter with the whites of 2 eggs thoroughly whisked. Shred or mince the beef as fine