132 ENGLISH ANI) FRENCH COOKERY. Gas-stoves.—By many housekeepers gas is preferred to coal for cooking purposes, and so far as cleanliness and control as well as time and labour saving are concerned, no comparison exists between the two methods. But where gas is used the selection of a suitable stove becomes a matter of paramount importance. There are good and indifferent gas-stoves, and the latter must be avoided. Even the smallest trace of vapour in the interior of an oven will spoil a joint or poultry, defeating the best efforts of the cleverest cook. Objections raised when gas was originally introduced into the kitchen, still hold good with regard to ranges of obsolete fashion. Nowadays, however, the higher class manufacturers produce stoves which meet every con- ceivable culinary need, combining the several indispensable essentials, namely, efficient ventilation, regular heat distribution, an economized gas consumption and great strength to resist wear and tear. Possibly the acme of scientific construction and durability has been attained in the ‘Eureka ’ Gas Cooker, manufactured by Messrs John Wright and Co., of Birmingham, whose workshops exceed in magnitude any in the world. So popvdar have these cookers become, that the firm now turn out several hundred weekly of different sizes and qualities, adapted to satisfy every want. Those we specially recommend are enamelled, and are practically indestructible, but a very durable and well-made stove is made from galvanised plates. This class comes somewhat less in price, and meets a widespread demand. The enamelled ‘Eureka’is, however, the preferable stove in every sense, being more easily cleaned than any other kind, and from its non-liability to corrosion cheaper in the long run. The oven is double-cased and jacketted on the sides, back and door with a new and efficient non-conducting material which, by preventing loss of heat through radiation, effects a saving to the extent of 50 per cent, in the gas consumed. The top of the oven is formed of fire-brick, over which the waste heat passes, thus adding greatly to its efficiency. The grilling burner is of novel construction, and is claimed to surpass any burner yet introduced for the purpose. Both sides of a piece of bread can be toasted in a minute and a half or less. Every cooker is now fitted, without extra charge, with Wright’s Patent Gate Eittings. By this arrangement the interior fittings can be lifted bodily out, enabling the oven to be kept perfectly clean and sweet, and free from all greasy accumulations. Large joints can also be cooked by similarly removing the shelf supports. Such advantages are not to be found in any other make of stove we have come across. An automatic gas-tap, rendering waste of gas impossible, can be attached to the boiling burners at a slight extra cost, and will soon save its expense and more. The enamelling of these stoves is their principal characteristic. The invention of a truly scientific mind this enamel will neither chip, crack, nor scale, while, at the same time, it produces in the stove an appearance of brightness and elegance, rendering it besides extremely cleanly and almost indestructible. Prejudice against gas is, to say the least, ill-considered. Apart from its many special recommendations, such as absolute cleanliness, convenience, uniformity and control of heat, together with its constant readiness in sickness and for nursery purposes, there is no gainsaying the fact that food cooked in a well-constructed gas stove neither taste differently from food cooked before a coal fire, nor is its quality in anyway deteriorated. For general purposes, therefore, it is equal to coal, while for operations