PART Y. MEATS: JOINTS, STEAKS, CHOPS, ENTREES, ETC. Beef a la Mode (1).—Take a rump or piece of beef, bone it, beat it well, and lard it with fat bacon ; put it into a stewpan with some rind of bacon, a calf’s foot, an onion, carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, a bay-leaf, thyme, a clove of garlic, some cloves, salt, and pepper, pour over the whole a glass of water ; let it stew over a slow fire for 6 hours at least. A clean cloth should be placed over the stewpan before the lid is put on, which must be carefully closed. When it is done, strain the gravy through a sieve, clear off the fat, and serve. Beef El la Mode (2).—Dip some small pieces of shin of beef in vinegar, and place in a stewpan without any water on a very slow fire, to gradually get hot ; the meat will yield sufficient gravy after slowly stewing 3 hours. Add a dessertspoonful of mushroom ketchup, a tablespoonful of port or claret, and A teaspoonful of brown thickening, or a piece of butter, the size of a walnut, rolled in flour, with a little salt and cayenne. Simmer for a few minutes and serve. Beef, Baked.—Take thin slices of cold roast beef, sprinkle with a little salt and dust of flour ; roll them up with a little fat between each roll, and lay them in the bottom of a pie-dish. For each 2 pounds of beef slice 2 carrots and a turnip, and parboil them ; lay them with thinly-sliced onion and minced herbs over the meat. The vegetables should be next to the paste, and should be dusted over with pepper and salt. Mix a teaspoonful of flour with about i pint of good gravy, free from grease, and 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of ale ; put this into the dish and bake 45 minutes, covered with mashed potatoes or a crust if pre- ferred. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Beef, Boiled.—Put fresh beef into enough boiling water to cover, bring to a boil quickly, draw the pan back, and simmer gently till done, allowing 20 minutes per pound. Put salt beef into lukewarm water. Simmer from the time of boiling till it is served up ; skim carefully all the time. Beef, Brisket of, Stewed.—Put the part which has the hard fat into a stew-pot with a small quantity of water; boil and skim thoroughly ; add carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and a few peppercorns. Petroleum Oil Stoves are the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. Wright and Butler’s Patent Oil Cooking Stoves are universally appreci- ated ; by the cook, because they are so clean and easy to manage ; by the lady, because they are economical and tho food is better cooked. Illustrated Catalogue free from Wright and Butler, Limited, Birmingham.—See Adverliicment.