COOKING FOB INVALIDS AND THE NURSERY. Ill Invalid Soup.—Boil 2 pounds of lean veal, or beef, with | pound of pearl barley, in a quart of water very slowly, until it becomes the consistency of good cream ; flavour with a little fresh celery, or celery seed, and salt. Strain when done through a fine hair sieve, and serve. Lemonade for Invalids.—Pare off the rind thinly, and cut 4 lemon into 2 or 3 thick pieces; remove as much as possible of the white outside the pith, and all the pips. Put the slices of lemon, the peel, and lump sugar into a jug; pour over a pint of boiling water ; cover closely for 2 hours. It should be either strained or poured off from the sediment. Mutton Broth.—To 2 pounds of scrag end of mutton, well chopped, add 2h pints of cold water, with onion and parsley, and salt to baste ; simmer for 2 hours, skim frequently. Oatmeal Gruel.—Mis 2 tablespoonfuls of best Scotch oatmeal with a little cold water. Put into l| pints of milk ; boil slowly with frequent stirring. Oatmeal Porridge.—Drop, slowly, 1 ounce of Scotch oatmeal into a pint of water while boiling, stirring all the while. Boil for J hour, stirring again occasionally. A Bice Drink.—To 2 quarts of boiling water add 1 pound of rice, a tablespoonful of barley, 1 of tapioca ; boil slowly 4 hour, drain through a sieve, press the liquid from the rice with a spoon, add a little cinnamon and sugar. To Thicken Beef Tea and other Soups for Invalids.—To 1 pint of beef tea or soup add 2 tablespoonfuls of ‘ Panier Brot ’ ; boil for 1 minute, season to taste, and serve immediately. Pood thus pre- pared is at once palatable and nutritious. Toast and Water.—Toast a thin piece of bread a nice brown, put it into a pint jug of cold water, and cover down for 1 hour. Turtle Soup.—Real turtle soup, says the author of ‘ Choice Dishes at Small Cost,’ is now sold in tins, but by far the greater proportion of these tins contain what is known as ‘ Invalid Turtle.’ This soup is a very delicate form of nourishment, and has been universally approved by medical men. In serving, immerse the tin in boiling water for about 20 minutes; then take out the tin, dry it, open it, and pour the soup into a soup-plate, season to taste; a teaspoonful of sherry or Madeira may be added, if allowed. Veal Broth.—Cut 2 pounds of lean veal into small pieces. Sprinkle a little salt upon these, and put them into a saucepan with a quart of cold water. Boil up, skim, then simmer gently for 3 hours. Strain, let it get cold, and remove the fat. Thicken with a little corn- flour before serving. Note.—For other recipes of other light foods suitable for invalids and the nursery, see ‘ Sweets and Savouries,’ and ‘ Puddings and Pies.’ In cooking for invalids, where broths, etc., are required to be kept at a uniform heat, Wright and Butler’s Oil Stoves will prove invaluable.