MEATS! JOINTS, STEAKS, CHOPS, ENTBEES, ETC. 07 nut, and as much finely-chopped parsley as you can pinch between your finger and thumb. Mutton Kidneys, Stewed h la Francaise.—Remove the skins from 6 kidneys ; cut them lengthwise into slices J inch thick. Season each piece with salt and cayenne, and dip into some finely-powdered parsley and thyme, two-thirds of the former and one of the latter; 3 or 4 finely-minced shallots may be added. Melt a good-sized piece of butter in the frying-pan, and put in the kidneys. Let them brown on both sides. When nearly cooked, dredge a little flour quickly over them ; add J pint of boiling stock or water, a tablespoonful of ketchup, and the strained juice of half a lemon. When the gravy is just boiling, lift out the kidneys, put them on a hot dish ; add 2 tablespoonfuls of either port or claret to the sauce. Let it boil for 1 minute, then pour it over the meat. Garnish with fried sippets. Time, 6 minutes to fry the kidneys. Boiled Leg of Mutton.—Cut off the shank-bone, trim the knuckle; plunge it into sufficient boiling water to cover. Let it boil up ; then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, where it should remain till the finger can be borne in the water. Then place it sufficiently near the fire that the water may gently simmer. If it boils fast, the meat will be hard. Slum well, and add a little salt. Serve with carrots and mashed turnips, which may be boiled with the meat, and send caper sauce to table. A leg of mutton of about 9 pounds takes 2j- hours after the water boils ; one of 12 pounds, 3 hours. Boiled Leg of Mutton, with. Cauliflower and Spinach.— Take a leg of mutton, and boil it in a cloth. Boil 2 fine cauliflowers in milk and water ; pull them into sprigs, and stew them with butter, pepper, salt, and a little milk. Stew some spinach in a saucepan, and put it into a | of a pint of gravy, with a piece of butter, and a little flour. When all is done, put the mutton in the middle of the dish, the spinach round it, and the cauliflower over all. The butter the cauli- flower was stewed in must be poured over it, and it must be made to appear like smooth cream. Minced Mutton.—Take the remains of any cold mutton; mix with a teaspoonful of made mustard, a little pepper and salt, a dash of cayenne, a little flour, a cupful of milk, and a bit of butter the size of a walnut. Put all into a stewpan, keep stirring till it just boils, and then serve very hot poured over small squares of fried bread. Minced Mutton, with Poached Eggs.—Mince some cold mutton or lamb, well season with pepper, salt, and a little mint. Put a cup of gravy into a saucepan, and let it get hot ; then stir in the mince, and let all become very hot, but do not let it boil, thicken with a little browned flour, and pile on a flat dish. Have ready a few slices of buttered toast, cut into neat squares, lay a poached egg on each, place these around or upon the mince, and serve. French Ragout of Mutton.—Take about 2 pounds of the scrag or any other part, with as little fat as possible, cut into pieces about 2 inches square ; put into a pan 2 ounces of butter, or good fat, when melted, add 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, stir with a wooden spoon till forming a brownish roux, add the meat, and stir it round for 20 minutes, add a little water, but not enough to cover, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, 4 ditto of salt, and 4 ditto of sugar, 6 sprigs of parsley, stir till boiling, set it to simmer. Peel a few turnips, cut in large dice of 1 inch square