PART IV. FISH-COOKERY. Few Englishwomen know how to cook fish properly, and these are fewest among the very poor, to whom an aptitude for preparing fish in economical and appetizing forms is of the greatest moment. In ordinary households how often is the cook or housewife found who can prepare fish properly—who can fry, steam, broil, bake, make a water souchy, a bouille a baisse, or any other economical dish of fish ? When we do find such a lut>us natural it is usually in the person of a cook who has gained her knowledge under the tuition of a foreign chef. The frying-pan used for fish should also be kept for fish only, and the most convenient kind for persons whose space is limited has small handles on either side to lift it by, instead of a straight one sticking out into the room. A long pot or kettle furnished with a steamer is most useful, and if kept scrupulously clean may be used for other things besides fish ; but the steamer is invaluable, and avoids a great deal of waste and trouble. Sea-fish is also as good again if boiled in sea-water ; but the next best thing is to put a handful of salt in the water. Another item to be remembered by all who essay fish-cookery is that their fat, lard, or oil should be very hot, in fact, at boiling point, before the fish is put in. There is a very simple but effective mode of testing whether it is exactly right, and that is by dipping the tail of the fish into the fat. If it instantly becomes crisp and brittle, the fat is just the thing, and the sooner the fish is put in the better. These hints may be con- sidered the outworks of fish cookery, but they are essential to its success. Bouille & Baisse.—All kinds of fish may be used. For 6 pounds of fish, chop 2 onions, and put them with a piece of butter in a stew- pan, and brown them ; then arrange the fish (which has been previ- ously cut into small pieces) in the pan. Add a small quantity of olive- Petroleum Oil Stoves are the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. In the cottage or the working-man’s home Wright and Butler's Oil Cook- ing Stoves are an invaluable addition, because they arc cleaner than coal and much more economical. Illustrated Catalogue free from Wright and Butler, Limited, Birmingham. —See Advertisement.