PAET II. FOOD IN RELATIONSHIP WITH NUTRITION AND DIGESTION. We may broadly classify the food we require as—Carbonaceous foods for supplying us with heat and force, such as sugar, starch, fat, oil, etc. ; flesh-forming substances—which must contain nitrogen—such as gluten, albumen, animal flesh, cheese, etc. ; bone-building material— which must contain lime, phosphorus, silica and other salts, such as potash, iron, common salt, etc. Milk, wheat, and one or two other cereals are the only single articles in which these three exist in anything like proportions suited to our needs ; and as it would be undesirable to leave untouched the great natural provision of fruits, herbs, fish, flesh, and fowl, none of which are alone quite sufficient, we see that a mixed diet becomes a necessity, and of course should be arranged so as to supply a due proportion of heat-givers, flesh-formers, and bone-builders. ‘This has, in fact,’ says an eminent authority, ‘ been practised for ages; for with animal flesh bread has for long been eaten, or, nowadays, more commonly potatoes. So with pork we eat pease-pudding, with bacon greens, bread with our cheese, and the Spaniard bread with his onion. On the same principle we put milk and eggs in our sago, rice, and similar puddings ; so we prepare macaroni with cheese, and numerous other familiar mixtures. Then, again, as bread and vegetables are deficient in the great force-producer, fat, we use butter to our bread, oil to our salad, butter to cauliflower, fat or gravy with our greens, and butter in our pastry. ’ Thus in scores of well-chosen dishes the inquiring mind will discover the existence of that principle which we have here endeavoured to explain, and which should at all times guide us in our selection of the food we need, and in its cookery. Petroleum Oil Stoves are the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. To get a coal range in cooking form a full hour is required and much care. To get the same results from Wright and Butler’s Oil Cookers five minutes only is necessary. Illustrated Catalogue free from Wright and Butler, Limited, Birmingham.—See Advertisement.