28 ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. such as gooseberry or apple-sauce, which not only gratify the palate, but correct its properties, neutralise, in a manner, its great proportion of fat, and thus operate beneficially on the alimentary canal. The flesh of the sucking-pig is, in consequence of the thick and strong juice with which it abounds, not very readily dissolved in the stomach, and is not a proper food for weak and sickly people. Venison. Fallow deer are the best providers of venison, and England is their nation, where in olden times no flesh food was more commonly eaten. Buck vension is preferable to that of the doe, and the prime joint is the haunch. It is usually eaten after long hanging when ‘ high,’ and is a very digestible and nourishing kind of food. The lean, when in its best condition for the cook, is dark and close-grained; the fat, white and firm, and should come from a beast not too young. Of all meat the lean of venison is probably the most easy of digestion. Poultry. White chickens are 'said to be best for the table, and those with white or pale-coloured legs to be always the most delicate and best- flavoured ; they should not be too fat, although plump: dark-legged birds are best for roasting. Turkeys must never be eaten too soon after killing, not less than two days in summer or six in winter. The same may be said of ducks and geese. Game. The most eatable and delicious parts of game birds are those in which the muscles have had least to do. For instance, in the woodcock and snipe the legs are juicy and tender, while the wings are dry and hard. Most kinds of game are digestible, but pheasants are perhaps least so. The flesh of game animals is usually wanting in fat. Hare and partridge are, with regal’d to digestion, about what mutton is. Hares may be kept six days in winter or three in summer before cook- ing. A pheasant or a fat young pullet will keep ten days in winter and about four in summer. Other game a longer or shorter time. In any case, to secure the peculiar flavour which is so much prized, game must be hung up for a sufficient time after being killed, care being taken to see that it does not become offensive. Practice will teach the housekeeper the happy mean ; the nose after all being the best test. Game should never be washed before being cooked. Wipe thoroughly with a dry cloth, and preserve the flavour. Fisli. The value of fish as food is not yet so widely recognised as it should be. Its nutritive qualities are large, and it is peculiarly fitted by its