142 ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. Teapots.—Within the last few years the homely teapot ha* seen some strange metamorphoses, the objects being in view, firstly, to pre- vent the lid from breaking off at the hinge or falling off with a splash into the cup ; and, secondly, to obviate the spout from clogging tip, as is the common fault with old-style pots. When ‘ Bowman’s Patent Purity Strainer’ is inserted, even ‘siftings’ may be brewed with im- punity, while the spout cannot fail to run freely. Carpenter's ‘ Slide Teapot ’ fulfils exactly the same purpose by another principle, and, if not quite so simple, has this advantage : the slide can be readily re- moved, cleaned, and replaced. Both these pots are a great improve- ment on old patterns. As regards metal articles, the Hingeless pot made by Mr. Ford, of King’s Lynn, is a decided boon. The lid slides at right angles to the spout and handle, and is caught by a catch, thus avoiding the use of a hinge with its constant readiness to break. As the lid fits closer, better tea can also be had. So many are the new improvements, that one may safely predict that within another decade an old-fashioned pot will be a rariety in any china or ironmonger’s shop. ’Washing' Machines.—Here, again, we are confronted by a multitude of improvements, all claiming to excel. The use of laundry machinery, whether of Bradford’s, Lloyd’s, Twelvetree’s, or any other make, ’cannot be too strongly recommended to the house-wife who aspires to economize time and money. The ‘ Vowel ’ washers and wringers appear to give general satisfaction, although many other firms produce articles of considerable, if not equal merit. But in buying any such labour-saving appliances, the purse and taste are perhaps the truest guides. Anyway, do not be without a washing machine and indiarubber wringer, or wringer and maDgler combined, and patronize a known make. When the washing is done at home, even inferior machinery will accomplish more in an hour than manual labour will in three ; while machines like Bradford’s will effect very much more. Water Purification.—First among matters of sanitation stands the maintenance, pure and undefiled, of the domestic water supply. House-cisterns and water-butts ought all to be emptied and thoroughly scrubbed out once, if not twice, every year, and a little of Condy’s Fluid should be added to the water with which this is done, so as to entirely remove all impurities. It is the only preparation available for this purpose, as it leaves neither taste nor smell after use. Nor need there be any fear in using Condy’s Fluid for this purpose, as it is not a poison. It is extensively used in India for purifying water for drink- ing, and is ordered by the Board of Trade to be carried by ships for the purpose of being added to the water in their tanks when it goes foul, as it is so apt to do in warm latitudes. Full directions for cleaning cisterns, etc., accompany each bottle of the fluid.