PAKT I. COMMON-SENSE COOKERY. ‘ Good Plain Living.’ Good plain living is still spoken of by old-fashioned middle-class people as if it consisted of little more than a joint of beef or mutton roasted or boiled, and as if cookery-books were consequently altogether mistakes ; but better-informed people know this is not the case. The prejudice in favour of a joint of meat with a simply made pie or pud- ding and certain vegetables is in fact a fruitful source of indigestion, under the influence of which life loses its enjoyment and health suffers. Without undertaking anything costly or elaborate, a variety of admir- able dishes may be placed upon the table. Yet, to quote a sound authority, how often we see, ‘partly upon the erroneous supposition that plain roast or boiled is the most wholesome species of food, and partly to avoid the trouble of providing anything else, a whole family, however various their constitutions may be, seated at table before a single joint, to take their chance of suffering from the repletion which even a small portion may occasion to a delicate person, who could have partaken of three or four judiciously cooked dishes without sustaining the slightest inconvenience. The stomach, in fact, never performs its duties so effectually as when it acts upon food composed of much variety.’ Indeed, the united testimony of high medical authority proves that a variety of well-dressed food is more easy of digestion than a meal confined to one sort of solid meat. As Dr. Herbert Mayo says, ‘Diet should, be varied' And he adds, ‘A spoonful of soup, a flake of fish, a slice of cold beef, in succession, will often provoke an appetite, and with it digestion, where the nicest mutton cutlet, or the most tempting slice of a haunch of venison, would have gone against the stomach.’ Petroleum Oil Stoves arc the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cook- ing known. In five minutes from time of lighting one of Wright and Butler's ' Acme Combination ’ Oil Cookers is at full power, and requires no further atten- tion. The trimming, filling, and lighting occupy three minutes. Illustrated Cata- logue free from Wright and Butler, Limited, Birmingham.—See Advertisement.