ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 90 isinglass or Nelson’s gelatine, and pour over same 1 pint boiling milk. Stir till quite dissolved. Simmer 2 ounces sweet and 1 ounce bitter almonds in an additional i pint milk or cream, until pleasantly flavoured. Sweeten to taste ; then mix with the dissolved gelatine. Strain into a mould, and leave till cold, or freeze. Garnish.—(3) Stir | pound of Mashall’s semolina into 1£ pints milk. Add 2 ounces sugar, a small piece of butter, and a little lemon or other flavouring. Boil for 3 minutes, and pour into a mould. Leave to cool. Turn out and serve with jelly or stewed fruit. May be varied by using water instead of milk, with the addition of \ pound red currant jelly for flavouring and to colour the shape. Should be served with milk or cream. Black Currant Jelly.—To each pint of juice obtained, after pressing and straining, from well-ripened fruit, allow 1 pound pre- serving sugar. When the juice has come to the boil, skim well, and add the sugar ; stir steadily till the sugar entirely disappears, and boil, not simmer, for, say, 10 minutes, or until thick enough, which can be ascertained by dropping some on a cold plate. When cold, put into pots for use, and fasten down with adhesive jam-papers. N.B.—The white of egg will make ordinary writing-paper adhere. Cheesecakes, Lemon.—1 pound sifted sugar, the juice of 2 lemons, with the peel finely grated, a small piece of butter about the size of a walnut, and 2 eggs. Beat the whole into a paste ; a little of it put into puff-paste makes a nice side-dish for a supper. Cheesecakes—Richmond Maids of Honour.—The follow- ing, believed to be genuine recipe, is taken from Cassell’s invaluable ‘Dictionary of Cookery’: Beat 2 eggs, and mix them with a quart of new milk ; add the eggs and milk to a quart of boiling water in a saucepan. Pour in lemon-juice, and remove the curd, as it rises, to a sieve to drain. Mix the curd with the yolks of 4 eggs, previously well beaten, a large cupful of clotted cream, the rind of a lemon, rubbed off on sugar, a little pounded cinnamon, J nutmeg, grated, 6 ounces of currants, well washed and dried, and a glass of brandy. Mix well, and bake in patty-pans, buttered and lined with a light French puff-paste. Time, about 20 minutes to bake. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for 24 cheesecakes. Lemon Cheesecakes.—Mix together J pound fresh butter, the yolks of 4 eggs, ^ pound sifted white sugar, the juice of a lemon, and the rind grated. Make a rich crust ; line the dish, and make a delicate edge of the paste round it. Put in the ingredients, and bake. If pre- ferred, it may be baked in small pans. Cornflour Blancmange.—Take 4 ounces cornflour, and mix with a little cold milk. When quite smooth, add 1 quart boiling milk ; put into a saucepan, and keep on the fire about 4 minutes after boiling up. Add sufficient sugar to sweeten, and flavour to taste. Cornflour Jelly.— Into a tumbler put a teaspoonful of cornflour, and mix with a little cold water. Keep stirring well while pouring upon it sufficient boiling water to make into a clear jelly, and add a glass of sherry or madeira. Apple Cream.—Pare and core 8 medium-sized apples ; steam till quite tender, but do not allow them to fall to pieces. Lay in a glass dish, and, when cold, pour over them this cream : to 1 teacup condensed milk or cream add 1 of sifted white sugar, and the whites of 2 eggs ; flavour with lemon. Whisk together for a few minutes, and distribute evenly over the fruit.