ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 122 to a syrup, removing the scum as it rises ; then add 1 bottle of claret. Take the wine from the fire just before it boils, and serve at once. Curacao.—Take J pound of orange peel, and immerse it in water, to facilitate the separation of the outer yellow rind from the white. Cut the yellow rind into small pieces, which add to the brandy (11 pints) in the bottle. Cork tight, and keep a fortnight near a warm stove, or 3 weeks in the cellar, shaking the contents at least once every day. Then add i pound of light-brown sugar-candy, crushed small, cork tight again, and leave the sugar to dissolve in the brandy, giving the bottle a good shake or two every day. When the sugar is dis- solved, filter through filtering paper, and fill in bottles. Cider Cup.—Put a slice of crumb of bread toasted at the bottom of a large jug ; grate \ small nutmeg over it, and place on it 2 or 3 slices of thin lemon-rind and 6 lumps of sugar. Pour over it 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, 1 of brandy, the juice of a lemon, a bottle of soda-water, and, last of all, a quart of cider. Mix well, put a sprig of borage or balm into it, and add a few lumps of pure rice. Use as soon as made. Lamb’s Wool.—This famous old north-country cure for colds and influenza is also a most refreshing, strengthening, and invigorating beverage when well prepared. A good recipe is as follows : Mix in a saucepan 1 tablespoonful of oatmeal with a pint of fresh milk. Let stand for 10 minutes, place on the fire, and allow to simmer gently, stirring all the while. Add a wineglass of ‘ Liquid Sunshine Rum,’ boil for a few seconds, and drink while hot. Gingered Egg Elip for Four.—Take 1 quart of good mild ale, \ ounce of powdered ginger, h pound of sugar-candy powdered fine, and 4 fresh eggs; break the eggs into a jug, and beat up with the ginger and sugar ; add gradually £ pint of the cold beer, with incessant stirring. Heat the remaining If pints in a warmer, and just when you see the beer rise, pour it quickly into the jug, keeping the whisk going all the time. This is a charming liquor. A drop or two of Langdale’s cinnamon or vanilla essence added greatly enhance the flavour. Milk Punch.—Three fine fresh lemons, h pound of lump sugar, ^ ounce of gunpowder tea, 1 pint of ‘ Liquid Sunshine Rum,’ h pint of pale brandy, 1 wineglassful each of kirschwasser and maraschino, a dash of cura§ao, 1 quart of water, and a good pint of new milk. Pare the lemons very fine, and steep the peel overnight in the rum. Infuse the tea in a cupful of boiling water, let it draw 5 minutes ; then pour over the sugar in a bowl, add J pint of juice of the lemons, and 1 quart of cold water. Stir, and pour in the spirits. Boil the milk, and add it boiling to the contents of the bowl, with constant stirring. Let the punch stand till quite cold ; then pass it through a straining cloth, and fill it in bottles. Moselle Cup.—Put a large slice of pineapple at the bottom of the jug, with a tablespoonful of powdered sugar ; pour over it a bottle of sound Medoc, insert a lump of ice as big as a baby’s head, and just when you want to serve it, add a pint bottle of good sparkling moselle. Iced. Orange Toddy.—Dissolve 1 ounce of powdered sugar in 2 fluid ounces of orange juice ; add 4 ounces of ice in small pieces ; put in a piece of yellow lemon peel, with 2 drops of Langdale’s essence of orange, and pour over the mixture 2 or 3 fluid ounces of old Scotch or Irish whisky. Drink before the ice is quite melted. Morelia Cherry Brandy can be easily made at home by adding