MEATS : JOINTS, STEAKS, CHOPS, ENTRIES, ETC. 59 Steak a la Duchesse.—Trim the steak, cutting oft not less than J pound. Run all that is cut off through a mincing machine twice. Add to the mince an equal amount of breadcrumbs, an uncooked onion chopped very fine, and a small pinch of some herbs, then put into a brazing-pan with a small lump of butter, and let it brown well. Take 1 egg, a tablespoonful of salad oil, a tablespoonful of white wine or tarragon vinegar, a little mustard, or some grated horseradish', and beat up the whole well. Heat, but do not boil, this in a little saucepan. When the steak is broiled sufficiently put into a hot dish, place the mince all round it, and if mashed potatoes are served, put them as an outer wall all round the mince. Just before serving pour the sauce gently on to the centre of the steak. Steak aux Legumes.—Take 1 pound of steak, not too fat, cut thick, insert a sharp-pointed knife in the edge, and divide in two with the exception of a small space round the edge. The steak should now form a sort of bag. Care should be taken to keep the external opening as small as possible. Have ready 2 small onions cut in slices and fried a nice brown; also a fried mushroom minced finely. Put the onions and mushroom, with a little salt and pepper, into the opening made (taking care to preserve the original shape of the steak), and grill over a clear fire for 5 or 7 minutes, turning with tongs, and being careful to catch the gravy. Take a carrot, cut it in slices of 1 inch long, and with a sharp knife cut each of these as if peeling them round and round in a continuous strip, so as to form a ribbon ; cut a turnip in the same way. Boil these carefully, and when the steak is sufficiently cooked put it on a hot dish, pour over it the gravy, and garnish with ribbons of carrot and turnip. Steak, Plain Broiled.—Take rump, buttock, or flank steak, any size, cut thick ; pepper all over, and rub well in ; place on cleaned gridiron, previously greased, over clear fire ; throw on a few dry sticks or small lumps of dripping, and flare both sides of broil until lightly brown. Then lift off until flames have ceased, and finish broiling slowly, turning frequently. Place on a hot dish, and pour over hot mushroom ketchup or Lea and Perrin’s Worcester Sauce. Garnish with a large lump of butter. If care has been taken to avoid pricking the flesh, all the juices will be retained. Steaks, Broiled (French way).—Two rump steaks should be cut about half an inch thick ; take care to have your fire clear, and rub a clean gridiron well with beef suet. When hot, lay on your steaks ; let them broil till the side next the fire is brown ; then turn, and when the other side is brown, lay on a hot dish, with a slice of butter between each ; sprinkle a little pepper and salt over them, and let stand 2 or 3 minutes ; in the meantime, slice a shallot as thin as possible into a spoonful of water ; lay on your steaks again, and keep turning until they are done; then dish, pour over the shallot and water, and send to table. Add for sauce horseradish and pickles. Garnish with scraped horseradish. It is an improvement, on turning the steaks the last time, to dredge them out of a dredger with fine holes, with 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls of Leman’s biscuit or rusk powder, 1 tablespoonful of salt, 1 of pepper, 1 of either eschalot powder or mushroom powder, or finely pulverised salts of celery, well mixed together. The steak to be placed in a very hot dish, with a little mushroom ketchup and a small piece of butter, and served immediately.