ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERV. 138 nurseries and sick-rooms, Child's night-lights, which burn in a saucer containing water, are still the most popular, although many people are now turning their attention to Price’s New Patent Night-light, which, costing the same, are so contrived as to burn in small glasses. Cutlery.—Celluloid and xylonite are now extensively used as sub- stitutes for ivory in the manufacture of knife-handles. The former material, while one-third the price, closely resembles the true tusk in appearance, texture, durability and hardness, but is, comparatively speaking, impervious to grease, and retains its colour much longer. An ingenious carving-knife for disjointing poultry or game, operating similar to scissors, deserves a word of mention. -^‘g'g'-Cookers.—Mr. W. Mattieu-Williams, F.C.S., and other dietetic scientists, are agreed in the opiuion that to boil eggs spoils their delicacy, since albumen coagulates at 180°. As an alternative improve- ment to dropping the eggs into boiling water and setting the saucepan by the side of the fire for 7 or 8 minutes, the ‘ Infallible ’ egg-cooker has been introduced by Messrs. Temple and Crook. Into this cooker the eggs are stood, large end up, with just enough boiling water to cover them. In 10 minutes they are ready, and may remain in the water, soft, properly cooked and warm, for an hour afterwards. Like the useful little egg-steamer, now so prevalent on middle-class breakfast- tables, the ‘ Infallible 5 forms a handsome table ornament. Floor-polisher.—For parquet floorings aud ball-rooms Dukas’s improved floor-brush is a decided advantage. It is fitted with a mov- able handle and iron top, and is encompassed by an edging of stiff bristles, thus affording protection to walls and furniture when corners, etc., are being polished. Gazogenes.—In country homes, or where difficulty, as frequently happens, is experienced in keeping a stock of aerated waters, one of Favarger’s Gazogenes will be found a most useful adjunct to domestic comfort. With the aid of this machine and a supply of Briets’ Gazo- gene Powders, which are very inexpensive, almost any desired kind of aerated water can be had at short notice, and often of a superior quality to what can be obtained in bottles from the local tradesmen. More- over, the Gazogene possesses all the advantages attaching to the syphon system, as the exact quantity of soda or seltzer required can be drawn off at a time, what remains in the machine being as bright and well gas-charged as at first. The Gazogene, in short, ministers both to comfort and economy, and is a decided advantage in any house. The possession of a few fruit syrups will enable the nimble-fingered house- wife to manufacture any number of delicious cooling summer beverages, such as children and young people are so fond of. Household Linen.—Before purchasing table and kitchen linen, it is as well—unless you have the advantage of residing in a large town, or belong to a ‘ store ’—to apply to one or two leading manufacturers for their price-lists. Money can often be saved, and a better article obtained, by dealing direct with, say, a good Belfast house. Lamps and Petroleum Oils.—Among thousands of families into whose hands this little work will stray, the petroleum oil lamp has doubtless already found a home. A few hints respecting its purchase and management are therefore likely to benefit the housekeeper, who through ignorance or carelessness not unfrequently meets with disap- pointment or worse. Accidents, occasionally of a harrowing nature,