VEGETABLES AND SALADS. 79 Carrots, when young, should be washed and brushed, not scraped, before cooking—and old carrots are better prepared in this way—then rubbed with a clean coarse cloth after boiling. Young carrots require 4 hour, and fully-grown 14 to 2 hours. To ascertain if they are done, stick a fork into them. When they feel soft they are ready for serving. Celery, Stewed.—Cut off any decayed leaves and the outside pieces, and well wash. Cut each head lengthwise into quarters, and boil in sufficient water to cover it till tender. Serve with white sauce poured over. Cauliflower, Boiled.—Cut off the stalk and decayed outer leaves, and well wash. Put into fast-boiling water with a little salt, and boil quickly in an uncovered saucepan until tender. Drain, and serve with melted butter. Cauliflower, Stuffed.—After cleaning, cut a large cauliflower into sprigs, and plunge them for a minute or two in boiling water. Remove and drain. Cover the bottom of the saucepan with thin slices of bacon, and put in the sprigs, packing tightly, head downwards, and filling in the vacant spaces with the following stuffing : 3 tablespoonfuls of finely minced veal, 3 of beef suet, 4 of bread-crumbs, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a little pepper and salt, a teaspoonful of minced chives or onions, and a dozen mushrooms cut small. Put these upon the cauliflower, and pour over them 3 well-beaten eggs. Pill up the sauce- pan with flavoured stock, and simmer gently until the cauliflower is tender. Green Peas.—Shell, wash in cold water, and drain ; then put them into a saucepan with plenty of fast-boiling water, to which a little salt and moist sugar have been added ; boil quickly over a brisk fire, with the lid of the saucepan uncovered. When tender, pour them into a colander; put them into a hot vegetable-dish, and in the centre place a piece of butter the size of a walnut. A small bunch of mint may be boiled with the peas. Haricot Beans.—After soaking a pint over-night, put them into \ gallon of cold soft water, with 1 ounce of butter ; simmer very slowly for about 3 hours ; drain and put into a stewpan, with a little salt, pepper, chopped parsley, 2 ounces of butter, and the juice of a lemon ; place on the fire for a few minutes, stir well, and serve. Hominy.—To prepare hominy as a vegetable, boil whole in plenty of water 4 hours, and strain it through a colander for the table. Leeks.—Trim off the root, the outer leaves, and the green ends, and cut the stalks into 4-inch lengths. Tie them in bundles, put into boil- ing water, with a dessertspoonful of salt and a tablespoonful of vinegar, and boil until quite tender. Drain and serve like asparagus on hot toast, pouring white sauce or melted butter over. Mushrooms au Naturel.—Cut off the stalks and wipe the mush- rooms carefully. To cook enough for one person, put in a large saucer with a piece of fresh butter the size of a walnut, aud a little pepper and salt. Turn another saucer over them, and let them stand on the top of a stove till cooked in their own juice. Mushrooms la Provencals.— Cut the stalks off short, and peel. Lay them in an earthenware vessel with the underside upper- most. Pour in a little oil, salt, pepper, sweet herbs minced very fine, and powdered mace to taste. Cover close, and serve when quite tender.