ENGLISH AND FBENOH COOKERY. 18G either case it must he used thin, and well rubbed into the fabric. Equal in importance in laundry-work to a good starch is an efficient blue, without which that whiteness and brilliant appearance so discern- able in really well-washed lace and linen can neither be obtained nor preserved. There are at most two or three A 1 blues in the market competing with many execrably bad ones. These latter represent exactly so much irritation and vexation of spirit as most young house- wives have learnt to their cost. All this petty annoyance and grumbling might be saved, however, if laundresses would invariably use one good blue and refuse others. Seemingly the most satisfactory article all round is Johnson’s ‘Royal Palace,’ used in the Queen’s laundry at Balmoral. Those who have tested this make for a long while declare that linen which has been put away in a fit condition will retain its whiteness for many months, and our own experience entirely confirms this view. DOMESTIC REQUISITES. Coffee Mill.—This article is indispensable in household manage- ment—to some housewives is, perhaps, the most indispensable. Nearly everyone values acup of refreshing well-made ‘ Mocha,’ either at breakfast or after dinner, but no one who does not possess a mill can obtain this cheap luxury unless it be away from home. Ideal coffee is the coffee which gourmets relish, and can only be had from the freshly-ground berry ; nor must the pro- duce of one’s labours be allowed to part with aroma and flavour by long exposure to the atmosphere. Coffee, indeed, to be perfect, should be ground almost as often as re- quired. What too often deters the house- keeper from this duty is the tedium entailed by using ineffective, cheap-priced mills, which, like Hodge’s razors, are ‘ made to sell.’ In the Duplex, or Double-cutting Coffee Mill, patented by Messrs. W. and T. Avery, and shown above, we have at once a cheap and really service- able family machine, which, in addition to lasting a lifetime with proj>er care, will grind fine or coarse at pleasure, and in half the time occupied by any ordinary mill, owing to its possessing a double-cutting surface. These capital little servants can be had anywhere for a few shillings. Candles.—Notwithstanding the rivalry of paraffin, kerosene, and gas, the quite unexpected invasion of the ‘ Wenham,’ ‘ Welsback,’ and ‘ Clamond ’ lights, and the thousand and one unsuccessful efforts to establish electricity as a domestic illuminant, candles hold their own, and look like doing so for another half-century longer—perhaps for ever. Indeed, if such a thing as a candle census could be taken, and suitable data existed for drawing just comparisons between the past Avery's best Household Scales and Weights can be obtained at any respectable Co-operative or Ironmonger's Store, or from the manufacturers in Loudon and Birmingham, at the following prices : With tin scales to weigh 7 lb., 14s.; 14 lb., 17s.; 2S lb., 21s. If with enamelled scalo, 2s. extra. Catalogues on application.