129 KITCHEN AND DOMESTIC REQUISITES. ‘Duplex’ lid introduced by the ‘ Cannon ’ Hollow-ware Co., Limited, marks another advance. In the surface of the main lid, which can now be made to fit tight, a small hinged lid is inserted. On opening this the contents of the utensil can be stirred or tasted, and either ingre- dients, water or condiments added without removing the lid. Kettles can be similarly filled. To prevent boiling over, the 1 Duplex ’ lid can be left partially open, while the cook attends to her other duties. Smoked food is simply disgraceful where these lids are used. Among improved tea-kettles, by far the best thing we have seen is the appro- priately-named * Boon,’ manufactured by Mr. T. S. Blood, of Great Hampton Street, Birmingham, which promises to become a welcome friend in thousands of households. The construction is ingenious ; the hinged-lid and spout being on the top at either end, while the solid handle is made by a half-twist to extend lengthwise between the two. Owing to these innovations the housewife can never scald her hand in refilling or pouring out, nor can the handle get over-heated. As another advantage, the spout can neither fur up nor melt off. The kettle, the writer purchased,'is made in block tin, and is a thoroughly strong, well-finished article. The notion of a half-twisted handle appears applicable to a good many articles besides the kitchen kettle. Double-casing, as in the 1 Hygienic ’ Saucepan, invented by Mr. W. Payne, where the jacket is filled with water from the spout, after the manner adopted in Ash’s Kaffee-Kane, is also coming into fashion, espe- cially for soups, porridge, custards, milk, gruel, sauces, etc., as once mixed the food requires next to no attention, cannot burn, and is cooked thoroughly and evenly throughout. In Dolby’s Beef-Tea and Gravy Extractor—a sick-room appliance—hot air is substituted for boiling water, the inner receptacle being made of porcelain, and the external of metal. It is alleged that by the use of this apparatus every particle of nourishment is extracted from the meat, the result being a true, rich and nourishing gravy. Among ‘Steam Cookers’ the ‘International,’ another of Mr. Payne’s inventions—in which the fish, meat, or vegetable is exposed to high steam-pressure, without touching the water—must be allowed a high scientific place, and food cooked this way is doubtless delicious and retentive of all the natural flavour and juices. Hall’s Patent Steamer, having a cone-shaped bottom, is adaptable to sauce- pans of various sizes, a great advantage, and for vegetables answers its purpose exceptionally well. Warren’s pots, the distinctive features of which are that the vegetables, etc., in the upper vessel are steamed, while the joint in the lower and principal vessel is, so to say, stewed by hot air in its own juice, are now too widely known to need praise. For travellers they are, of course, simply inimitable ; but in Hancock’s Patent Combined Cooker and Steamer the climax of invention in this direction has probably been reached. With this apparatus several dishes can be excellently prepared at the same time, while very little attention is needed. Where, however, as in ordinary Fish Kettles, water-boiling has to be relied upon for cooking, let us say a small salmon, or cod’s head and shoulder, nothing as yet surpasses Marston’s ‘fluted strainer,’ which permits the water to circulate freely under the fish. A visit to any first-class ironmongery store will bring to light no end of other useful innovations bearing upon the problem of economic and scientific cookery. Disinfectants.—To prevent the odours of cooking processes from 9