ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 72 chopped small, \ pint cream or milk, a little salt, pepper, and pounded mace, and the minced fowl. When the mushrooms are cooked, serve quickly with toasted sippets round the dish. Boiled Fowl. —Truss and press the legs into the sides. Cover with buttered paper, plunge into hot water lightly salted, and boil gently for about f hour. Serve with ham, tongue, or bacon. Pour a little parsley, lemon, or oyster-sauce over, and serve the remainder in a tureen. Fowl aux Olives.—Cut the fowl into 8 pieces, and place in a fiat saucepan. Chop an onion, fry it brown, sprinkle in a pinch of flour, boil 2 seconds ; add a few spoonfuls of white wine. After the wine has been poured into the saucepan the same quantity of broth should be added, and when the mixture boils it should be allowed to simmer by the fire. Add sweet herbs, or, as a Parisienne says, ‘ a bouquet ’ (parsley, shallot, a bay-leaf, and thyme). Simmer for 20 minutes. Skim and strain the sauce over the pieces which have been put into another saucepan. Warm all up together, and put in 18 olives that have been stoned and scalded. Minced. Fowl and Eggs.—Stewr gently for 1 hour or so the bones, fat, and skin of the remains of cold roast or boiled fowl. Skim, and when nearly boiling, addl teacupful of milk thickened with flour. As soon as it thickens put in the chicken cut into neat squares. Let it get hot, but do not boil. Pour into a dish lined with the stuffing left from the chicken. Strew breadcrumbs over the surface, lay eggs (broken into separate cups) over the surface, and bake again till the whites of the eggs are set. Roast Fowl.—Truss the fowl with the giblets under the wings. Singe it. Roast for f hour, basting often with butter, and sprinkle with flour some minutes before serving. If liked stuffed, use a veal stuffing, or a ham forcemeat. Serve with plenty of rich light-brown gravy, and bread or oyster-sauce. Time, f to 1 horn-. Fowl Sandwiches.—Mince the flesh and season with salt, mix with it a little butter to give consistency, and spread between thinly cut slices of bread. Fowl a la Tartare.—Boil a fowl till very tender, cut it into joints, egg and breadcrumb, and fry in plenty of hot dripping from roasted meat or mutton-fat. Pile the pieces of fowl upon a dish, and serve with Tartare sauce round.—See Sauces. Roast Duck.—Well clean, stuff with breadcrumbs, sage and onion, chopped fine ; butter, salt, and pepper. Lard with butter, and dust on some flour, when before the fire. The time it takes to cook depends much on the fire and the bird. The best test is when the steam draws from the breast to the fire. Then baste well with butter, dust on a little flour, and, as soon as it has a good froth, serve up with a fine gravy. Duck and. Green Peas.—Divide 1 pound lean bacon into pieces of about 2 inches, and fry a light brown with butter. Dredge in a little flour, and after stirring about 3 minutes, add 1 pint of broth, an onion stuck with 2 cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, salt, and pepper. The duck should be previously fried or roasted for 10 minutes to make it a good colour, then put into the stewpan with the gravy and stew slowly for 1J hours, or till tender. Meanwhile stew the peas with butter. Place the duck and peas on a hot dish, pour over them the gravy strained and thickened, and serve.