78 ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. Cut, according to taste lengthwise, into thin strips or obliquely into a lozenge form. The strings should be drawn off with the tops and stalks when they are come to their proper growth. Put them into a large saucepan of boiling water, slightly salted, allow the steam to escape, and keep boiling very fast until tender. Time, 15 minutes if young ; 20 to 25 minutes if old. French. Beans, & la Maitre d’Hotel.—Prepare and boil 1 pound of beans as above. Keep them hot, and when dry put into a stewpan with 2 ounces of melted butter, \ teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a little salt, and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Shake the pan over a brisk fire, mix well, and serve hot in 8 minutes. Cabbage.—Remove any decayed outer leaves and the stalk, and cut the cabbage into quarters. Wash well in cold salt and water, and plunge into fast-boiling water, adding a little salt and a very small piece of soda. Keep the saucepan uncovered, and stir them down once or twice in the water. Boil until tender. A tasty little dish may be made as follows : Boil cabbage till quite tender, the usual way, and squeeze in a colander until quite dry. Then chop very small, adding a good thick slice of butter, some pepper and salt. Press the whole very closely into an earthenware mould or basin, and bake either in an American oven, or in one beside the fire. When done turn it out on to a flat dish, and garnish with some fried slices of bacon rolled round, with a sprig of parsley between each piece of bacon. Red Cabbage, Stewed.—Cut in slices, put into a stewpan with i ounce of fresh butter, 1 pint of weak stock, a slice of ham cut into small squares, and a gill of vinegar. Cover tightly and stew for an hour. When nearly tender add another 4 pint of stock, a tablespoon- ful of pounded sugar, and pepper and salt to season. Stir well over the fire, until nearly all the liquor has evaporated, and serve. Garnish with fried sausages. Beetroot, Pickled.—When cold, slice, and put into a jar. Pour a pickle of vinegar in which pepper, ginger, and sliced horseradish have been steeped, boiled, and strained therefrom. Capsicums and cayenne may be added to the pickle, which must not be poured over the beet- root until quite cold. Beetroot and Potatoes.—Take 2 young boiled beetroots, which will take from 2 to 3 hours to simmer in plenty of boiling water ; peel when cold, cut in slanting direction, so as to make oval pieces ; peel and cut in small dice 2 middling-sized onions, put in a pan with 2 ounces of butter, fry white, stirring continually with a spoon ; add a spoonful of flour, and enough milk to make a thickish sauce, add 3 saltspoonfuls of salt, 4 of sugar, 1 of pepper, a spoonful of vinegar, and boil a few minutes ; put in the slices to simmer for about 20 minutes, have ready some mashed potatoes, with which make a border in the dish 1 inch high, then put the beetroot and sauce in the centre, and serve. Boiled Broccoli.—Strip off the leaves that are not required, and cut the inner ones level with the flower ; wash in strong salt and water, and plunge into boiling water with a little salt, and cook quickly in an uncovered saucepan. Remove from the water directly they are done. Brussels Sprouts.—Remove any dead leaves, and well wash; plunge into boiling water, with a small piece of soda and salt in the proportion of 1 tablespoonful to 4 gallon of water. Boil over a quick fire until tender, and serve plain or with melted butter.