ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 38 ‘ waste ’ would at once become a source of nourishing and palatable food to be placed daily upon the table ; while on the hob of every kitchen grate would be found, as in France, a stock-pot, or family digester, such as may be bought at any ironmongers’, varying in price from 3s. 6d., according to size. They are made of iron in the shape of a cauldron, with a swivel handle ; a saucepan handle is in the way. The lid is so contrived that it can be hermetically fixed (generally by a slot and groove, so that a turn of the wrist does it), and it also has a spring safety-valve in the centre to let out the steam, supposing at any time it should accumulate. Among the better kinds of stock-pot is the porcelain-lined. It is more easily cleaned, and is otherwise superior both to earthenware and cast-iron. Thus provided, the thrifty housewife utilises every morsel of flesh and bone, and every atom of nutritive food, solid or liquid ; and with herbs and vegetables to the fore, and even the liquor in which vegetables have been boiled, with condiments and bread, etc., dishes up daily, one by one, a large variety of very cheap, thoroughly appetising and wholesome soups, making the more costly boiled or roasted solids last very much longer, and at the same time benefiting the health of her family. Into the digester let every scrap of bone or gristle or odd ends of animal food be put. In all bones there is a nutritive substance of the highest value, but it wants drawing out; this the digester patiently does. Every morning, therefore, let the bones and scraps be collected together : let the housewife unscrew the lid of her patient friend, remove the bleached bones already sucked dry, and add those which she has been keeping, the pot being well filled always with liquor. No seasoning or salt should ever be put into the digester, and all scraps of fat should be kept out. But the shank bones of the legs of mutton, that the butcher will weigh in, and all similar make-weights, may be utilised. Not a bone should ever find its way to the rag and bone shop until it has passed through the stock-pot. In some places meat is to be bought at a penny or even twopence a pound less than at others, if bone and certain strippings are weighed in. With a digester on the hob at home, these are the places to deal at. The penny or twopence a pound saved becomes doubled, and the fresh uncooked bones give a marvellous stimulant to the contents of the pot. Sometimes on a Saturday night wholesome scraps and bones may be had very cheaply. ‘ The stock-pot of the Continent,’ says Sir Henry Thompson, 1 has another use beside that of preparing a basis for soup. Thus when a boiled fowl is required, it is a common practice to conduct the process in the stock or simmering pot. Any nutritive matter, however small, which might have been lost in the water used for ordinary boiling, is saved for the soup, while