ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 144 thrive best on that firm’s patent fibrine cakes, which Mr. Hugh Dalziel —now the chief authority upon dogs—has pronounced, in summing up the merits of the various foods, as the best all-round dietary for the canine race—an opinion our experience fully endorses. In these cakes, beetroot is skilfully blended in scientific proportions with American beef fibrine, oatmeal, wheat flour and dates ; beetroot, alone among vegetables, retaining its properties unimpaired when made into biscuit, thus guarding against irregularity, a common disorder w'ith household pets who so often miss the invigorating matutinal run. In feeding, give a light breakfast of Spratt’s meat biscuits, dry, (for small dogs break up into little pieces) and in the evening a full meal of the same soaked in hot broth, milk, or Swiss milk and water, while to obviate satiety from too constant sameness in diet, either clean paunch, sheep’s heads, fresh bullock’s liver or rich bones may be occasionally boiled with the biscuit, and a little well-cooked cabbage or other vege- table and fat added. Much fat, however, is bad for dogs. Most animals will express their ready agreement with these changes which invariably prove beneficial, nor will they resent a rough bone or two during the mid-day. The main reason for administering the biscuit dry, is that since the quadruped is compelled to masticate it well, a copious flow of saliva gets mixed with the food, and the work thrown upon the digestive organs is thus materially diminished. Gnawing hard substances moreover, preserves the teeth. When feeding on soft food is persisted in decay soon occurs. There is no laying down any fixed law as to the quantity of aliment to be given, but all authorities are agreed that the moment ‘ sniffing ’ and ‘ walking away ’ begins, any food remaining should be removed until next mealtime, or be re-offered when appetite is renewed. Some animals make night hideous by barking and howling. In all such cases try liberal and late feeding, leaving the dog a few bones to amuse him- self with. If hunger is the cause, as is most probable, the nuisance will be stopped. Whilst in pup the mother requires extra food, and for the last week of her time allow her Spratt’s fibrine cakes with beet- root twice a day mashed up with rich broth ; every other day chop up with her principal meal, boiled bullock’s liver. Some hours after whelping, and when sufficiently recovered to accept nourishment, a little puppy food prepared with milk or strong meat-broth thickened with the former, will prove a valuable restorative. Offer about blood- heat. Whilst suckling vary the diet constantly, remembering that the fibrine cakes and puppy food are great milk producers, and that vege- tables are equally needed. After the third week accustom the pups to lapping puppy food in warm milk, increasing the quantities gradually ; a little later on try them with the cakes pulped in broth, and after the fifth or sixth week let them have bits of the latter half softened to nibble at, as it assists teething. From comparatively early infancy throughout life a fish meal, say of cod’s head, once a week will be found an advantage.