SWEETS' AND SAVOURIES. 93 Gooseberry Souffle.—Pick the gooseberries, and boil them with sugar until tender. Then press through a coarse sieve, and put into a glass dish. When cold, pour over a good custard. This may be made with the yolks of eggs, and the whites may be beaten till firm, and cooked. The appearance is improved by colouring half the white of egg with a few drops of Langdale’s cochineal. Each quart of gooseberries should take about | hour to boil. Hominy for Breakfast.—Soak 1 pint hominy in 2J pints boiling water over-night, in a vessel with a tight cover ; in the morning add i pint sweet milk and salt to flavour properly. To prevent burning and save attention, the vessel of hominy may be put in a larger saucepan containing water. Place on a brisk fire, and boil for about J hour. The addition of a sweet sauce made of dissolved white sugar adds greatly to the charm of this breakfast dish. Hominy Milk.—Soak \ pound of crushed hominy in water 12 hours, and then boil it in milk over a slow fire 2 hours. It must be about the consistence of rice milk when brought to table. Boiled Macaroni.—Boil 1 pound of macaroni, in milk or water, for about § hour, adding a piece of butter, some salt, and an onion stuck with a few cloves. When done drain the macaroni, and put in an enamelled saucepan, with 2 tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, a little nutmeg, some pepper, salt, and as much cream or con- densed milk as will make plenty of sauce. Stew the whole gently for a few minutes, then serve very hot. Macaroni Cheese.—Boil and drain \ poimd macaroni, mix there- with 1 ounce butter and 2 ounces grated cheese : pepper or cayenne and salt to taste. Put the macaroni in a dish and strew over it suffi- cient grated cheese to cover, run a little dissolved butter over the top, and put it in the oven till it is a bright-yellow colour ; serve quickly. Meringues.—Take h pound finely-powdered sugar, mix it lightly and expeditiously with 5 whites of eggs whisked to a firm froth. When the sugar has been all put in, fill a tablespoon with the paste, and smooth with another spoon to the desired egg-like shape, always re- membering that after the sugar has been added to the white of egg, the batter should not be worked over-much, or it will become soft and difficult to mould into meringues. Drop them separately, and about 2 inches apart, on strips of stiff white paper, and keep them well shaped with the spoon. Sift sugar over ; let them lie for about 2 minutes, shake off the loose sugar, place the meringues on baking-boards, and bake in a moderate oven until a light fawn colour is reached ; if baked too much their appearance will be spoiled. When sufficiently coloured and a little cooled, pass a thin knife under each, to slip them from the paper, scoop out a portion of the soft part, and replace in the oven to dry. Before using, fill the hollow with whipped cream, and put two meringues together. To secure variety, finely-chopped almonds or currants may be sprinkled over the top, and the insides filled with Southwell’s excellent jellies or preserves. Meringue shells are sold ready prepared at a small cost, and economize time. Mincemeat.—1 pound beef suet, 1 pound apples, 1 pound currants, 1 pound raisins, \ pound moist sugar, \ pound citron, 2 ounces candied lemon, 2 ounces candied orange peel, 1 nutmeg, \ ounce salt, J ounce ginger, % ounce allspice, \ ounce cloves, juice and peel of 2 lemons, 1 wineglass brandy and of white wine. Chop the suet fine, add the