DEINKS. 119 Marshall, that benefactress to the world by her valuable lessons on cookery, confirms this opinion. It has hitherto been very difficult to obtain good old rum, but that no longer exists. The ‘Liquid Sunshine’ may be recommended as being indeed ‘ the finest rum ’ we have met with. It is obtainable anywhere at 3s. fid. a bottle. Whisky.—Cheap whisky, either Irish or Scotch, should be shunned. About 3s. 6d. is a fair price for a bottle of wholesome, fairly-matured spirit, and there is no better stimulant for those with gouty or rheu- matic tendencies. The Dublin Distillery Company (D.W.D.) are known for producing one of the finest makes of ‘ Irish, ’ and pride themselves that they can compete with old brandy for medicinal qualities. With regard to ‘ Scotch,’ the reigning favourite of to-day, Highland malt whisky, is prepared, as the world knows, in the far-away glens of the Highlands (purity of water being one of its essential requisites) from the very finest malt procurable. No other than the finest of malt is used ; and to assure its quality, says the Scotsman, the distillers buy only the best barley they can procure, malt it under their own personal supervision, and, as a rule, adopt measures of exceptional care in this important operation. It is at this stage that the peaty flavour so char- acteristic of a pure Highland whisky is obtained, the malt being kiln- dried by Highland peat. The distinguishing property of malted grain is the amount of volatile ethers contained in the whisky produced from it. These ethers are similar to the volatile matter in wine ; improve and develop with age ; possess a bouquet and aroma of their own ; and produce a peculiar dryness and fulness on the palate. No one who has been up the Caledonian Canal in one of the comfortable MacBrayne steamers will forget the brief stay at Fort William, and the wonderful glass of old liqueur, ‘ Dew of Ben Nevis,’ at the famous ‘ Long John ’ Distillery of Mr. D. P. MacDonald. To most ‘ southrons ’ it is a reve- lation of what a really fine Highland whisky becomes with perfect maturity. For those whose taste3 incline towards a blend, the ‘One Star,’ ‘Three Stars,’ and ‘Strathdon ’ blends of Messrs. Wm. Williams and Sons, of Aberdeen, the largest blenders of only Highland whiskies, commend themselves all over the world. Coarse whisky may be im- proved by those who happen to possess it by melting a little barley- sugar and adding the syrup to the spirit. Wines.—At the present time poet and shekky are by far the best value for money to be had, and not the least merit of these two wines is their remaining unspoilt in a decanter. The fashion in port is in favour of a light colour, and consequently the wine is now kept longer in the cask than formerly, and in addition generally allowed to remain for the greater period of its existence in Oporto, as the higher temperature there hastens the process of lightening the colour. It is more than probable this class of port is the most wholesome, and the fact probably also explains how port, once regarded as the arch enemy of all sufferers from gout or rheumatism, is now numbered among their valuable friends. Bottled port should, of course, be kept in an even and rather high temperature ; should, however, it be necessary to use it when it is chilled, the best plan is to add hot water to it, say nearly two wine- glassfuls to the bottle. Experienced port-drinkers have often been led to believe they were drinking another and superior wine by this inno- cent proceeding. Everyone is aware that port makes a capital winter drink with hot water and sugar, without going to the extent of pre-