PAET X. BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES. French Bread.—Into 4 pounds flour flavoured with 3 ounces salt, stir 4 pint of good sweet yeast, the yolks of 2 eggs, the whites of 3 beateii separately, and 1 pint of warm milk. Stir till well mixed into a thin dough, and let it rise for a few minutes. Make the dough into loaves the size required, and bake in a brisk oven with or without tins. Time to bake, from § to 1 hour. Home-made Bread.—Into 1 quartern of flour stir 1 pint of warm milk or water, 4 tablespoonfuls of good yeast, and a little salt. Cover up and set before the fire to rise. If set over-night make up next morning, then add J pint more milk or water, and knead into a dough for 10 minutes. Set it by the fire for 1J hours, then make into loaves, and bake from 11 to 2 hours, according to size. If equal quantities of whole meal and flour be used, an excellent brown bread can be made. Baking powder is now used more frequently than yeast. Pulled Bread.—Take loaf of freshly made bread, and while it is still warm pull the inside out of it in pieces the size of your hand, or smaller. Put these into the oven and bake them a delicate brown. When cooked they are crisp, and of nutty flavour. Bread, Wheat Meal.—Mix 10 ounces wheat-meal, flour, and 1 ounce baking-powder intimately ; then pour on gradually 1 pint cold water ; work quickly into dough with a little salt, kneading as little as possible ; shape into cakes, and bake immediately in a quick oven. Biscuits can be bought cheaper and better than they can be made at home. Freshness is the first point in a good biscuit, and this is where the ordinary bought biscuit, in spite of careful packing, some- times fails. There are a few old-fashioned houses, notably one in the city, and another in the West-end, where biscuits can be had fresh and fresh as they are baked, and both houses have a reputation. Every one who does ‘ shopping ’ in the neighbourhood of Oxford Street knows ‘ Luck’s,’ the old-established confectioner’s of Tottenham Court Road, famous for ‘ a biscuit and a glass of sherry,’ amongst other good things. Here the biscuits are made, not by the ton, but in batches as they are Petroleum Oil Stoves are the cheapest, safest, aud most efficient way of cooking known. For roasting, use Wright and Butler’s Patent ‘ Acme Combination ’ Oil Cooking Stoves, which will roast a joint of beef perfectly in the same time as a coal fire oven. Illustrated Catalogue free from Wright and Butler, Limited, Birmingham.—See Advertisement