109 COOKING FOR INVALIDS AND THE NURSERV. Malt, however, contains the same body—diastase—which exists in the saliva and the pancreatic juice of adults, for the digestion of starchy food. The saliva and pancreatic juice of infants failing naturally to supply this body, the desired result, viz., the conversion of starch into grape-sugar, is attained artificially by bringing malt in contact with wheaten flour, under proper conditions. The action of malt on starchy food being now well recognised, a number of food preparations exist in which malt figures. The most successful preparation of its class, and accepted by medical men as the finest infants’ food on this account, is the one known as Mellin’s Food. Some interesting chemical analyses and medical facts bearing upon this all-important question will be found in a pamphlet, 1 The Care and Feeding of Children,’ by Mr. G. Mellin. As he says, normal human milk is, of course, the best food, on account of the specific property it possesses of being the most easily digestible. When it fails, the best substitute ought to be sought. Such a proper substitute did not exist even in theory until Liebig published his formula, founded upon scien- tific principles, for a food corresponding physiologically with mother’s milk. Mellin’s food for infants and invalids is now universally admitted by doctors to be a soluble, dry extract, prepared after Liebig’s formula, from wheat and malted barley, and consisting of grape-sugar, dextrine, proteids (albuminoids), and soluble phosphates. Analysis shows it to be free from cane-sugar and farinaceous matter, the starch of the flour having been completely transformed into grape-sugar and dextrine by the vegetable diastase of the malt, exactly in the same manner as it would take place naturally in the digestive organs of an adult. When dissolved in hot water and mixed with cow’s milk, Mellin’s food is found not only to supply the grape-sugar and the potash salts which are deficient, but assures the digestion of the milk by the infant. Barley Gruel.—Put 2 ounces of pearl barley, and cinnamon to flavour, into 1 quart of water, and boil till reduced to 1 pint. Then strain through a sieve; add a glass of red wine, and sweeten to taste. Barley Water.—Wash a handful of barley, and simmer gently in 3 pints of water for 1 hour ; a small piece of lemon peel and the juice of a lemon improves the flavour. Beef, Essence of.—Both in illness and convalescence this stimulant is invaluable. The essence involves much trouble in making at home, and the result is not always satisfactory. It is better and cheaper to buy one of the made preparations. Beef Tea.—(1) Take 2 pounds of leg of beef, or blade-bone, cut into small pieces, and put into a jar with 3 pints of water and a pinch of salt; cover it down tightly, and put in a slow oven for 4 or 5 hours. This makes beef-tea much better than boiling in a saucepan.—(2) Two pounds leg of beef or steak. Scrape with a sharp knife until only sinew, skin, and fat remain, which put aside. Place the scraped beef in a jar with 2 pints of cold water (a bladder which should be tightly secured is still better) ; cover down closely, and stand in a saucepan half- full of boiling water, which keep in a state of ebullition. In 2J or even 2 hours the beef-tea can be administered. In cases of severe illness an ounce of isinglass should be added ; and where a stimulant