PAET IX. SWEETS AND SAVOURIES. Apples—Painted Ladies.—Choose firm, sound apples, and remove eyes and stems. Peel carefully, and put in a shallow saucepan large enough to hold them in 1 layer ; dissolve 1 cup of sugar in just enough water to cover them. Add 3 cloves, a bit of stick cinnamon, and some lemon-peel cut fine; cover closely, and stew slowly about | hour, or till done. Lift carefully on to a glass dish, and with a small brush cover each side with melted currant jelly. Strain the syrup, boil it down to \ pint; add a wineglass of sherry or madeira, and the juice of half a lemon, and pour over the apples. Serve cold. Apple Jelly.—Take 12 apples, pare them, core, and cut in pieces. Cover with water in a preserving-pan, and boil for an hour ; then drain off the syrup through a hair-sieve, and to every pint of juice add § pound of sugar. Boil for f hour, and skim all the time. Ornament this jelly with greengages, currants in bunches, or any other preserved fruit. Apple Ploat.—Pare and core 12 large green apples ; boil or bake in as little water as possible, and press through a fine hair-sieve when cold. Sweeten to taste ; add the whites of 2 eggs well beaten, and then beat the whole together until stiff. Grate nutmeg over it. To be eaten with cream. Baking1 Powder.—Sir Henry Thompson gives the following as ‘a simple and excellent formula,’ which has been long used : Tartaric acid, 2 ounces ; bicarbonate of soda, 3 ounces ; arrowroot, 3 ounces. Mix thoroughly; place in a wide-mouthed cork bottle, and keep perfectly dry. Blancmange.—(1) 4 tablespoonfuls, or 3 ounces, of Oswego Pre- pared Corn to 1 quart of milk, 2 eggs. Dissolve the prepared corn in a little milk. Put into the remainder of the milk 4 ounces sugar, a little salt, a piece of lemon-rind or cinnamon stick, and heat to near boiling. Then add the mixed prepared corn, and boil (stirring briskly) 4 minutes ; take out the rind, and pour into a mould or cup, and stand until cold. When turned out, pour round any kind of stewed or pre- served fruits, or a sauce of milk and sugar. Be careful not to use more of the corn than is directed.—(2) Dissolve in a little cold water 1 ounce Petroleum Oil Stoves are the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. Pastry done in Wright and Butler’s Patent Stoves is much nicer and more digestible than if done in ordinary ranges. One gentleman writes that 1 ho can now eat pastry.’ Illustrated Catalogue free from Wright and Butler, Limited, Birmingham.—See Advertisement.