51 FISH-COOKERY. roll out thin, cover the pie, and bake half an hour. Note.—A thin crust should always be used for a pie made with second-cooked meat or fish. _ ' Fish. Pudding'.—Pound up the remains of fish cold with a few spoonfuls of stock, add a little piece of butter and some breadcrumbs, the yolks of 4 eggs well beaten. Then rub through a sieve, adding whites of the eggs well whipped, put into a mould and bake. Fish Sausages.—A rich, wholesome, and tasty form of sausage, introduced by the Normal Company, is made, packed in tins, both fresh and smoked. The latter is an agreeable relish, always ready for use.. Herrings, Baked.—Thoroughly clean the herrings ; twist them in a round and put them in a pie-dish with vinegar, whole pepper, and a bay-leaf or two. Bake for three-quarters of an hour. Send them up for breakfast with a little of the liquor round them, and a sprig of parsley in the centre of each rounded fish. Herrings, Boiled.—When cleaned, scaled, washed, and dried, rub in salt and vinegar, then place in boiling water for 10 or 12 minutes, remove, drain, and serve with grated horseradish and horseradish sauce. Herrings, Toasted.—In Yarmouth the following bit of rhyme conveys a useful hint : ‘ There was never a herring spake but one, And he said, Toast my back before yon toast my bone.’ Herrings, Red.—Remove the heads and tails, split, bone, and baste with oil in a dish. Cook on a gridiron, turning them for a minute or two, and serve hot. Haddock, Broiled.—Clean, dry, and put before a brisk fire in a Dutch oven. Remove, when the skin rises, coat with white of egg, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, and dredge with flour. Then place it on the gridiron, turn, and butter the upper surface each time. Serve hot. Haddock, Dried, Broiled.—Heat the haddock slowly before the fire in a hanging gridiron till quite hot. Rub a little butter and pepper over it before sending to table. Haddock, Boiled.—Put 2 ounces of salt into J gallon of water, and when dissolved, put in the fish. Boil quickly, remove the scum, then simmer gently until the eyes of the fish start and the flesh leaves the bone easily. Serve on a napkin, garnish with parsley, and send melted butter and anchovy sauce to table in a tureen. Hake, Baked.—Stuff with veal-stuffing, sew up with a needle and fine packthread. Brush it over with egg, and sprinkle with bread- crumbs, and bake in a hot oven. John Dory.—Cut off the fins, lay in a fish-kettle, cover with cold water, and add \ pound salt. Bring gradually to a boil, simmer gently for £ hour, or longer. Serve on a hot napkin, and garnish with cut- lemon and parsley. Lobster, anchovy, or shrimp sauce, and plain melted butter, should be sent to table with it. Lobster Cutlets.—Take the meat of a lobster out of the shell and cut into small pieces ; 1 ounce of butter, flour, and \ pint of water, milk, or stock made from odds and ends of fish are then placed in a saucepan and stirred until the liquid boils and thickens. Then take off the fire and add the pieces of lobster with the juice of half a lemon, a little cayenne pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, some anchovy, and whatever coral the lobster had. Set this aside for several hours until 4—2