PAET VIII. PIES, PUDDINGS, AND TARTS. For making paste and crusts for pies, puddings, and tarts, the general recipes as under may be followed. Suet Crust.—Chop the suet very fine after freeing from skin and shreds, and rub it well into the flour; add sufficient to work the whole to a smooth paste. For this crust allow 5 or 6 ounces of beef suet, and 4 pint of water to each pound of flour. For a richer crust use from \ to f pound of suet to every pound of flour. Short Paste.—Mix with a pound of flour \ a teaspoonful of salt and a tablespoonful of powdered sugar. Rub \ pound butter, or butter and lard, into the flour, and make it into a paste by stirring in rather more than \ pint of water or milk : the yolks of 2 eggs may be added. Roll the paste out once only, and handle it lightly. Puff Paste.—Equal weights of butter and flour may be used, or f pounds butter to each pound of flour. Put a little salt into the flour, and make into a paste by stirring gradually into it with a knife rather less than \ pint water. Roll it out to an inch thick. Break the butter into small pieces, and sprinkle these over the paste. Dredge a little flour over it, and turn it over, then repeat until all the butter is in- corporated with the paste. Let the paste rest for 10 minutes between each 2 rolls. Equal parts of lard and butter may be used, and if the yolk of an egg or the strained juice of ^ a lemon be mixed with the water in the first instance, the paste will be lighter. Apple Dumpling.—Roll thin some puff-paste, and cut into square pieces, roll an apple into each piece, put into a baking-dish, brush with the white of egg beaten stiff, and sift pounded sugar over. Put in a oven and bake f hour. Apple Pudding.—Butter a basin, line it with a thin paste; pare, core, and cut the apples into slices, and fill the basin ; add sugar, lemon-peel, and juice, and cover with crust ; pinch the edges together, flour the cloth, tie the pudding securely, and put it into plenty of fast- boiling water. Boil 1J to 2J hours, according to size. Petroleum Oil Stoves are the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. Two ducks, roast joint of 10 lbs., boiled leg of mutton, boiled fish, two tarts, pudding, potatoes, vegetables of three kinds: the whole cooked in one stove at a cost of twopenco halfpenny. Time, 2J hours. Xo dirt. Illustrated Catalogue free from Wright and Butler, Limited, Birmingham.—See Adver- tisement.