ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKEHT. 120 ( paring ‘ negus but when it is intended to use the wine for this pur- pose, it should be selected accordingly. All wines, though good enough in themselves, do not take kindly to water, and some ports kick at it frightfully. Messrs. Pownceby and Co., of Oxford Street, and the Strand, make a feature of fine old ports matured in the wood, among their stock being wines \Vhieh have attained the extreme age of 40 and 50 years in cask. Sherry.—One would recommend sherry, if only for its universality. It is good alone, with hot water, with cold water, or with aerated waters, and it is frequently welcome in the kitchen. People should not be afraid to buy cheap sherry ; there is plenty of good, sound wine to be had wonderfully cheap, owing to its not being in fashion. Tales concerning the iniquities of plastering and fortifying are distortions of simple processes attendant on the protracted and delicate rearing of this wine. Among the many excellent shippers may be named Messrs. Capdepon, of Xeres, which is one of the very oldest firms there. French Wines.— For regular use the red wines are preferable to the white, for the reason that they contain the tannin of the skins and stalks. White wines act more rapidly ; the red ones have a more durable action. Although it would perhaps be rash to declare that all the injurious statements reflecting on the purity of claret, for instance, are unfounded, it may be accepted as generally true that none of the concoctions of which so much is said are offered for sale in this country. The capital failing of these imitation wines is that they will not keep, consequently no merchant would be rash enough to import them. It is quite another thing where they can be manufactured, sold, and drunk within the month, as is the case on the spot. If anyone is curious enough to wish to taste imitation claret, they should be ‘ smart,’ and get their wine cheap by importing it direct. It is a standing joke with those who understand these matters, to hear some astute indi- vidual relate how he makes sure of getting pure wine by importing it direct from some obscure dealer abroad, when he could buy better of a neighbouring wine merchant, with the additional security of the latter’s commercial reputation. Clabet diluted with water forms an admir- able drink with food, and should not be despised as being thin. It is a first-rate tonic, and easily digested. Red Burgundies do not mix well with water, strangely enough, not so well as the white Burgundies. Among the cheaper white wines is Grave, a wine that would become much more popular if it were more generally known. As Champagne is so universal a favourite, and, though a costly nine, yet finds its way into most households, it would bean omission to pass it over unnoticed. It is essentially a manufactured wine, but none the less it must be ranked among the purest. Its beneficial medicinal properties are un- doubted. The only unfortunate fact is the difficulty of saying where the line should be drawn between the genuine royal wine and that which has no claim to the distinction. If anyone is desirous of pur- chasing champagne at Is. lOd. or 2s. the bottle, they should be strongly persuaded to invest their money in ginger-beer. An economical wine at 3s. would probably be a distinctly unprofitable purchase ; the money would be much better spent on some other wine. Among the cheaper brands, that is among those the prices of which are not altogether regal, there is none better than the first quality of Roper Frferes et Cie. They were awarded the prize medals at the Vienna and London