118 ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. will do best to obtain a supply in cask from some ‘ family brewer.’ 1 he cask itself should be firmly mounted on the stand, or whatever contrivance is arranged to support it; for should the beer be shaken after any appreciable quantity has been drawn off, the chances are that it will remain permanently cloudy. A wooden tap is best, always sup- posing it to be scrupulously cleansed each time before it is driven into a fresh cask. Whether one has bitter, mild, or black beer, is of course purely a matter of individual taste ; people will do well, however, not to permit themselves to be over influenced by the ‘ fine tonic bitter ’ theory. A pronounced bitter flavour is easily imparted, and beer may be wretched stuff in spite of its striking ‘ tonic.’ Bottled beer is much lighter and with some more digestible than that from a cask. Here again, however, recent improvements (?) and the exigencies of competi- tion have completely altered the former state of things. The old- fashioned bottled ‘ Bass’s 1 and ‘ Guinness’s, ’ so highly prized, and, in fact, the same beers as are still bottled for export, and by a few firms for home consumption, are to all intents and purposes a different article from the popular-priced bottled beers of to-day. The former were carefully selected for bottling, and bottled when the beer was in the particular condition suitable to the purpose. The gas was self-pro- duced, generated by the beer itself during a slight fermentation in the bottle. The result, a magnificent drink, a sort of malt champagne. Nowaday all bottled beer merchants cannot afford to wait this slow pro- cess. Some bottle the beer regardless of condition, and supply the carbonic acid gas artificially from a machine similar to what is used for the manufacture of soda water. At the same time it would be un- reasonable to expect India pale ale at 2s. 6d. or 3s. a dozen imperial pints. Some of the bottled light ‘ dinner ales ’ sold at this price, when carefully bottled, are excellent value. Brandy, alas ! how difficult it is to speak of now ! Do not be tempted by any fine old cognac at 3s. 6d., 4s., or even 4s. 6d. the bottle. If you wish a good imitation of brandy, ‘ British brandy ’ is at least a pure spirit, being simply plain rectified spirit flavoured. Fine cognac is very dear; even good French brandy is now a luxury of price, worth at least 5s. a bottle. Formerly there was only one spirit for illness ; as a tonic or stimulant, nothing could compare with genuine old brandy; but now all we say is, Take care. There is no alcoholic preparation which for exquisite flavour, and bouquet, and valuable medicinal pro- perties will ever approach choice cognac. Messrs. Pownceby and Co. have some of the 1834 vintage still in stock. Rum is a very much neglected spirit, probably because it has been so very difficult to obtain good and old—a most necessary qualification in all spirits. Next to brandy, it is one of the most wholesome, and when fine and matured its flavour and aroma are highly agreeable; and it has the advantage of being cheap. The common kinds of rum (Demerara, and other descriptions than Jamaica) are not unwholesome, but their bouquet, taste, and quality are very decidedly inferior and coarse. This is the article generally offered to the British public, and which has consequently obtained for rum hitherto its somewhat bad repute. The faculty are now alive to the importance and benefit to be derived from this spirit when really genuine, fine, and old. Many cases of chest weakness have been successfully treated by a liberal allowance of rum. It is valuable for flavouring, and in the cuisine. Mrs. A B.