PIES, PUDDINGS, AND TARTS. 87 makes. This may be accounted for by the fact that Messrs. Bancroft use no water in refining their lard. Cooks troubled in their cooking by sputtering lard should insist upon their tradesmen supplying Bancroft’s. The firm are the best known in the trade, both in this country and on the Continent, large quantities of their product being supplied to every important market in Europe. They were the first to refine lard, for which improvement they patented a process, and to them belongs the credit due to having revolutionized the trade. Lemon Bread Pudding-.—Shred J pound' of beef suet, 6 ounces of finely-grated breadcrumbs, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 3 ounces of moist sugar, the finely-minced rind and strained juice of a lemon, ^ pint of milk, 2 eggs well beaten, and mix. Butter a basin, ornament the inside with raisins, candied fruit, or sliced lemon-rind, pour in the pudding, cover with a floured cloth, plunge into boiling water, and boil quickly for about 3 hours. Turn out on a dish, and send to table this sauce round it: Put the thin rind and juice of a lemon in h pint of water, add 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, and simmer gently 20 minutes ; add 2 drops of cochineal and a tablespoonful of gin, and serve. Lentil Flour Pudding.—Mix 3 ounces lentil flour with a little cold milk, pour upon it slowly 1 pint boiling milk, stirring well, and add 3 ounces sugar, 1 ounce butter, a little powdered cinnamon, grated nut- meg, and a pinch of salt. Let it cool; add 4 eggs well beaten, pour into a buttered dish, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve with sugar sifted over. Marmalade Pudding.—Put 1 pound breadcrumbs into a basin, and add \ pound of suet, \ pound of Southwell’s marmalade, and J pound sugar ; mix well, add 2 eggs well beaten, and a little milk. Boil for 2 hours. Milk Pudding, An Economic.—Take 1£ pints of milk, and 4 tablespoonfuls of ‘ Panier Brot,’ sugar to taste, boil for 1 minute, keep stirring ; add 2 or 3 eggs, well whisked ; put in a dish and bake for | hour, then serve. Currants, raisins, or other fruits may be added with advantage, also Langdale’s essence of vanilla, lemon, or almond. Oswego Pudding.—One quart of milk, 3 tablespoonfuls of Kings- ford’s Prepared Com, and 4 eggs. Beat the yolks, and mix with a little of the milk and flour ; sweeten and flavour with Langdale’s vanilla. Scald the milk, and add the other ingredients ; boil 3 minutes ; pour into a dish, and put aside to cool. Beat the whites with 4 teaspoonfuls of sugar. Cover the pudding with a layer of currant jelly, and spread the beaten whites over the whole. Plain Plum Pudding.—Chop \ pound suet very fine, and mix with 1 pound flour ; add \ pound of breadcrumbs, 1 pound of raisins stoned, a little nutmeg and grated ginger, and mix all well together with 1 pint of milk and 2 tablespoonfuls of treacle. Put into a basin or floured cloth, and boil 4 to 5 hours. Queen Pudding.—Mix 4 tablespoonfuls of Oswego Prepared Corn in 1 quart of cold milk ; stir until it boils. When cool, stir in 2 tablespoonfuls of powdered white sugar, and 6 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately.^ Put in a large pudding-dish, place in a pan of water, bake hours. Sauce: One cup of sugar, \ cup of butter, the yolks of 2 eggs, 1 glass of Madeira wine. Rub sugar and butter to a cream, add eggs and half the wine. Put the dish in boiling water, stir 10 minutes, add the rest of the wine, and serve. Ground Rice Pudding.—Mix in a saucepan 8 ounces of ground