46 ENGLISH ANP FBEXCH COOKEKY. SAUCES. Anchovy Sauce.—Add 1J tablespoonfuls of anchovy paste to is pint melted butter, season to taste ; boil up for 1 minute, and serve. Apple Sauce.—Pare, core and slice 4 or 5 apples; place in a sauce- pan with water sufficient to moisten ; simmer for about J an hour till reduced to pulp. Beat them up, adding a teaspoonful of sugar, a squeeze of lemon, and small piece of butter. Bechamel Sauce (White).—To make about J pint, put 2 ounces of butter and 2 ounces of flour into a saucepan, and stir them over the fire briskly with a wooden spoon to a smooth paste. Add gradually f pint of milk, a small onion, 2 or 3 sticks of celery cut up small, half a carrot thinly sliced, half a bay-leaf, a very small sprig of thyme, a bunch of parsley, a little nutmeg, and a pinch of salt. Stir the sauce over a quick fire till it is pleasantly flavoured, and strain it into a basin, and it will be fit for use. Bread Sauce.—Peel and slice an onion, and simmer until tender in a pint of milk ; break a breakfast cupful of stale bread into small pieces, and place in a saucepan ; strain the milk over it, and let it soak for 1 hour, then beat up with a fork and give a seasoning of pounded mace, cayenne and salt, with 1 ounce of butter ; boil up the whole and serve. Bretonne Sauce (for Cold or Hot Beef).—Mix a wine-glassful of vinegar with equal quantities of pounded sugar and mustard, a tea- spoonful of each, and about a tablespoonful of grated horse-radish. Brown Sauce.—Melt 2 ounces of butter in a saucepan, and add 1 ounce flour, stirring until it is a brown colour. Add boiling stock to render it of cream-like consistency, season to taste, and bring to desired colour with a little 1 Couleur Parisienne.’ Chutney Sauce.—Chop 1 pound of raisins, 4 ounces of onions, 6 ounces of garlic, and 2 quarts of green gooseberries. Boil 2 quarts of vinegar, and put the above into it. Boil J an hour, and bottle when cold. Dutch Sauce for Fish.—Work 2 ounces of butter with a small teaspoonful of flour, put it into a stewpan with 2 tablespoonfuls each of water and tarragon vinegar, stir for a minute, and add the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, stirring until the mixture thickens. It must not boil. When ready to serve, pour into it half the juice of a lemon. Make this sauce in a gallipot, placed in a saucepan of boiling water. Egg Sauce.—To melted butter (see recipe) add 2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs cut up very small. When boiling, stir in the eggs. Mint Sauce.—Take a sufficiently large bunch of fresh green young mint to fill, when finely chopped, 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls. Chop the rind of a good-sized lemon very fine, and add to the mint in a sauce-tureen. To 4 ounces of best French vinegar add H ounces of fresh lemon-juice, and dissolve in this as much finely-powdered loaf-sugar as it will absorb. Pour the solution over the mint in the tureen, and let it stand for 1 hour. Mustard Sauce.—Knead 1 teaspoonful of flour of mustard and 1 dessertspoonful of baked flour with 3 ounces of butter ; stir to it a gill of boiling water, let it all boil 5 minutes, add 1 teaspoonful of vinegar, and serve. Melted Butter.—Mix 2 tablespoonfuls of flour with a little smooth