ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 30 or fatty matter, and saline substances, chiefly phosphates. The excel- lence of wheaten flour for making bread is due to the quantity of gluten contained, which is larger than in any other cereaL In cooking flour, success depends upon the proper amount of water being supplied, with sufficient heat to cause the cells in which the starch exists to escape. If the water is not sufficient, these cells will not absorb enough to cause them to burst. Wheaten Bread.—When yeast is used in making bread it con- verts the starch or sugar into alcohol, which is afterwards evaporated by heat. Stale yeast makes the bread heavy and unwholesome. When in its most digestible condition it is uniformly light and porous. The more compact, close, or heavy the bread, the less easily is it acted upon by the digestive fluids. When made with potatoes, as inferior bread not unfrequently is, it quickly turns sour. If bread be eaten too largely or without the right proportion of other foods, it is apt to create viscidity or slime. Brown or Whole-Meal Bread and abundance of milk should be given to growing children ; and they can be brought up well with- out a meat diet, since the outer coating of the wheat contains all the mineral phosphates requisite for the formation of teeth, bones, flesh, and muscle which a growing child requires. Corn-Flour contains rather more water than wheaten-flour, con- siderably less nitrogen, and a larger proportion of heat-giving carbon. It is consequently a fattening food, although apparently very nourishing also, for it is the chief food of some of the healthiest and strongest races in the world. When, some years ago, unusual distress existed in this country, government officials issued a work on cheap and nourishing foods for gratuitous distribution amongst the poor all over the three kingdoms. In this it was pointed out that ‘ in milk or broth corn-flour is a good strong meal, sufficient for a man to work upon.’ It was stated that ‘it takes about 31 pounds of corn-flour to make porridge for 10 persons ; less than half a pound of corn-flour for a meal for 1 man, and a warm, comfortable meal that fills and strengthens the stomach. Three and a half pounds of wheaten-flour would make 4.1 pounds of bread; but it would be dry bread, and bread alone, and not affording half the sustenance or comfort of the porridge.’ Oswego Prepared Corn, another product of the Indian corn, consists entirely of the starchy portion of the grain in the form of in- numerable granules, freed from the oil and nitrogenous elements con- tained in the whole grain, and when carefully prepared should be devoid of cellulose and albuminous compounds. According to Dr. A. H. Hassall, the author of ‘Food and its Adulterations,’ this article is to be regarded both chemically and dietetically as an arrowroot, and should, therefore, especially when given to young children, be used in