ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOK EE V. G8 about 30 pieces, put some fat in a frying-pan, and fry the turnips until rather brown, take them out, and put them in a stewpan with the meat when it is done, which will be in about an hour from the time it was put on; when ready to serve, take out the meat and turnips, squeeze the parsley, which throw away, skim off the fat, add a little broth or water, or, if too thin, boil it a little more, dish it up by placing the pieces in a circle, and the turnips in the centre, sauce over, and serve very hot. Onions, carrots, peas, etc., may be used in place of turnips. Mutton Saute.—Put a little butter or bacon fat in the frying-pan, sprinkle pepper and salt over slices of cold mutton, and let them get hot very slowly. Turn the mutton frequently, and do not allow it to fry. When turned in the pan for the last time, sprinkle a little chopped parsley on the upper side ; remove the slices carefully on to a hot dish, pour the fat in the pan over, and serve. New Zealand Mutton.—The large amount of this meat which finds its way into the English markets is probably not even suspected by the general public, who purchase, cook, and eat it without the slightest suspicion of its origin. From New Zealand we are receiving steadily increasing supplies. The meat is kept frozen hard as stone the whole voyage, and arrives in England in that state. But when the artificial frost is thawed out the meat is as tender, nutritious, and wholesome as any brought to the English market. Messrs. Fitter and Son, of Leadenhall Market, were the first to introduce these meats to private consumers, and at prices which bring them within reach of practically every household. They have an elaborate system of storage by refrigeration, which keeps the meat in its original frozen condition until the time it is removed for sale. They remind their customers that frozen meat, like English meat, improves by hanging. The hind- quarters will keep quite a week in cool weather ; the forequarters may be cooked sooner. As there is a tendency for the juice to run from the mutton while thawing, in consequence of the fibres being slightly broken by the expansion of the juice in the process of freezing, it should be hung in such a way as to check this. The hindquarter, haunch, and leg should be hung by the flaps, the knuckles hanging down, the loins and saddles also by the flaps, giving them a horizontal position. It should not be soaked in water for the purpose of thawing (as some suppose), but hung in the larder, or other dry, draughty place, and wiped occasionally with a dry cloth in damp weather. Flour should not be used, as it is apt to turn sour. When put down for cooking, the chump part of the leg or loin should be exposed to the fire, or hottest part of the oven for a few minutes, to toast the part cut, and so seal it up, thus keeping the gravy in the joint. LAMB. Note.—A shoulder of lamb requires rather more than 1 hour to roast. A small saddle, 1J hours ; a larger saddle, 2 hours, or longer. A loin of lamb, 1£ to H hours. Ribs of lamb, from 1 to hours. Breast of Lamb, and Peas.—Remove the skin from a breast of lamb, cut away part of the fat, and divide into neat pieces. Dredge with a little flour, put into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, and