SOUPS AND SAUCES. 43 Lentil Soup.—Wash 1 pound lentils, and soak in water over night. Boil with 2 onions, 2.turnips, 2 carrots, all chopped fine; a piece of celery or a little celery seed, 1 ounce butter, pepper and salt in 2 quarts water, 1J hours. Thicken with 1 ounce sago previously soaked. Pass the whole through a wire sieve. Mutton Broth.—Put into a pan 2 pounds of the scrag of mutton, freed from fat, and chopped small, with 3 pints of water. Boil, skim, and simmer for an hour. Add lit ounces of washed rice, a small onion and 2 sprigs parsley chopped, turnip and some celery if liked. Simmer for two hours. Strain, skim, season, and serve. Onion Soup.—Peel and mince finely 6 Spanish onions. Fry them in a little fresh butter till tender, without being browned. Pour over them 3 pints of seasoned stock, add a little cayenne, salt, and pepper, and simmer gently for 20 minutes ; then press through a hair-sieve, and return to the saucepan. Grate the crumb of a stale loaf into J pint of boiling milk, stir this into the soup, and serve hot. Ox-Tail Soup.—Cut the tail into joints, put into a stewpan, with i ounce of butter and a slice of ham. Put in \ pint of water, and stir over a sharp fire till the gravy is drawn. Add 3 pints water ; and 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 2 onions, h head celery, 6 peppercorns, 2 cloves, 2 lumps sugar, 1 tablespoonful ketchup, small bunch savoury herbs, 2J tablespoonfuls salt. Simmer gently for 4 hours, or until the tail-joints are tender. Take them out, skim, and strain the soup, thicken with flour, and flavour with h spoonful of ketchup; simmer for 5 minutes, and serve. Mulligatawny Soup (economical).—Take 2 pounds of tinned mutton, or scrag, and soak in 2 quarts of water. Fry 2 apples, 2 onions, 2 turnips, 2 leeks, and a bunch of herbs. Pour on a pint of the liquor in which the meat is soaking; boil for \ hour. Mix 2 table- spoonfuls of flour and 1 of curry powder with cold water. Stir into the liquid, add the rest of the water and the meat. Boil for 3 hours. Press the whole through a sieve, boil again, add salt, and serve with boiled rice. Serve with a dash of lemon. Mulligatawny Soup.—Make 2 large cupfuls of mutton broth. Cut up a chicken, and boil it in the broth for a good h hour or more, first mixing in a tablespoonful of curry-powder or paste. Slice 2 onions, fry brown in 1 ounce of butter, add them to the chicken and broth, and place them for some minutes over a slow fire, and, just before serving, add \ cup of cream or milk and some lemon-juice. Pea Soup (1).—-To 1 pint of split peas put 2 quarts of soft water, a little lean bacon, or roast beef bones, wash 1 head of celery, cut it and put it in with a turnip, boil it till reduced to 1 quart ; then work it through a colander with a wooden spoon, mix a little flour and water, and boil it well in the soup. Add cayenne pepper, dried mint, and salt to taste ; cut a slice of bread in small dices, fry them a light brown, put them in a dish, and pour the soup upon it. The liquor in which beef or any other meat has been boiled may be used instead of water, and will produce a greater quantity of soup. Pea Soup (2).—Another way is to use Messrs. Symington’s well- known pea-flour. In its preparation the deleterious agent of the pea— the fixed air—is displaced, and soup prepared by it is not only nutritious, but its digestibility is greatly increased. It is sold in tins, from which as much is taken as may be necessary. Mix with as much meat stock