PAET XIV. KITCHEN AND DOMESTIC REQUISITES. Bbief mention only, if any, is necessary of the many kitchen and domestic appliances which usually figure in books of this nature. Most housekeepers’ know their use, and would spend the ' nimble ninepence ’ in procuring them, did they see their way. Where, however, improve- ments on the ordinary design or regular article in use are introduced, the innovation becomes of great interest, and may deserve short notice. With few exceptions, however, a visit to a good ironmonger’s, such as Benetfink’s, will introduce the housekeeper to the recent novelties among the humbler requisites. Baking Dishes are now made double, with a moveable grating and gravy-well, one corner being enclosed with a perforated cover so as to readily strain the dripping and gravy. There are several patterns, all excellent in their way, and very little more expensive than the old- fashioned single dish used to be. Baking Tins.—In these we have to note a marked improvement. Hitherto great difficulty has been found in propei’ly baking the inside of a loaf or cake without over-cooking the outside. In the new heat- conducting tins a hollow pyramidal-shaped spike rises from the tin’s centre. This arrangement insures the usually heavy part of the cake being thoroughly baked, saves largely in time and firing, while, the hole left in the middle of the cake prevents crumbling and waste in cutting up. Where appearance is studied, the hollow space can be fitted with thickened cream, cream ice, etc. Bread Graters.—Like much else, the old-fashioned grate is giving place to scientific rivals. Phillotts’ Rotary is an appliance of some utility, especially where cooking on a large scale has to be performed. A weighted metal disc, resting on a corrugated and perforated bottom, and revolving on a central spindle, is raised sufficiently high on a tripod stand, as to permit of any deep dish being placed underneath. When the bread, lump sugar, or ‘ Parmesan ’ is inserted, a few turns of the handle spread the crumbs, etc., evenly over the article below. The process is extremely rapid. This grater is made in several sizes, and comes comparatively inexpensive. Petroleum Oil Stoves are the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. To get a coal range in cooking form a full hour is required and much care. To get the same results from Wright and Butlor’s Oil Cookers five minutes only is necessary. Illustrated Catalogue free from Wright and Butler, Limited, Birmingham.—Sec Advertisement.