63 MEATS : JOINTS, STEAKS, CHOPS, ENTREES, ETC. up with shred parsley, green onions or shallots, and pepper ; fry over a slow fire, and serve with clear sauce and a little vinegar in it. Ham, Boiled.—Before boiling, soak for 4 or 5 hours in cold water. When it goes on the fire, put in the saucepan with it a handful of parsley, a dessertspoonful of celery salt, a small bunch of herbs, and an onion of about the size of a peach. Allow 20 minutes for each J pound. After the ham is taken out, the water in which it was boiled should be strained and set aside to make a foundation for soup. Bor mulligatawny, for instance, it is a capital beginning. Boiled Pickled Pork.—Put the pork into a saucepan, cover with cold water, and bring slowly to the boil. Skim, draw the pan to the side, and simmer very gently until done. Time, \ an hour per pound from the time the water boils. Hand of Pork.—Put into cold water, skin uppermost, bring slowly to the boil, skim, and simmer gently until the pork is done. Time, 4 an hour per pound from the time the water boils. Hoast Leg of Pork.—Score the skin across in narrow strips about ^ inch apart. Stuff the knuckle with sage and onions minced fine, and a little grated bread, with pepper, salt, and the yolk of an egg. Do not put the meat too near the fire ; rub a little sweet-oil on the skin with a paste-brush or a goose feather ; this makes the crackling crisper and browner than basting with dripping. A leg of pork of 8 pounds will require about 3 hours. Hoast Loin of Pork.—Score the skin about | of an inch apart. Brush it over with salad-oil, and place at a good distance from the fire. Baste liberally, and when done, serve with brown gravy and apple sauce. If liked, a little sage and onion stuffing may be served in a separate dish. Time, a loin of p'ork about ^ an hour per pound. Sausages can be dished in a variety of quick and tasty ways. The Cambridge sausages, made by Mr. H. Palethorpe of Dudley, and as supplied to the Boyal Household, are excellent in quality, mild in flavour, not too rich, and most carefully made. Stewed. Sausages.—Take a pound of sausages ; prick each one twice with a fork ; put them into a small saucepan with enough water to cover. Let them stew, not boil, gently for an hour. Then put them into a well-heated frying-pan with a shred of onion cut fine ; brown them well. While they are browning mix a teaspoonful of flour with a little water, and thicken the liquor left in the saucepan ; add a tea- spoonful of Lea and Perrin’s Sauce, or a little ketchup. Lay the saus- ages in a dish, build a wall of mashed potatoes round them, and pour in the liquor. Baked Sausages.—Baked are preferred by some to fried sausages. Put them into a pan in a single layer wi,tli a little fat. Bake very gently in a moderately-heated oven. When brown on one side, turn. Drain when done, and serve very hot with a brown sauce. Fried. Sausages, with Apples.—Take \ pound of sausages, and 6 apples. Slice 4 of the apples into pieces as thick as a five- shilling piece, and cut the remaining 2 into quarters. Fry them with the sausages, and lay the sausages in the centre of the dish, and the apples round. Garnish with the quartered apples. Pork Pies are more trouble to make well than it is worth going to, for with all the pains the result cannot compare with any of the first- class ready-made pies in the market. The well-known lioyal Melton