ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. so Ragout de Champignons.—Oil a little butter in a Btewpan, and throw the mushrooms, well picked and cleaned, into it, with a tiny bunch of parsley and a morsel of garlic. Sprinkle all with flour, and add equal quantities of white stock, good gravy, and white wine ac- cording to the number of mushrooms. Let them stew for an hour, and thicken with butter into which some flour has been rubbed. Stewed Mushrooms.—Squeeze into a basin of cold water the juice of a lemon. Cut off the ends of the stalks and peel some mush- rooms, and throw into the basin. Take them out with the hands, so as to avoid any sediment, and put into a stewpan with a lump of fresh butter, salt and pepper to taste, and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Cover the pan, and stew gently for half an hour, then thicken with a little flour, add a few spoonfuls of cream or milk, a little grated nutmeg, and cayenne pepper. Let all stew till the mushrooms are quite tender, and skim before serving. Onions a la Creme.—Boil 4 Spanish onions in water slightly salted until cooked, about 1 hour. Drain them and put into a stewpan with 3 ounces butter rubbed smoothly with a tablespoonful of flour, and salt and pepper to taste. Shake the pan constantly, and stir in slowly i pint new milk. Serve the onions on toast, with the sauce poured over. Spanish. Onions, Baked.—Put the onions, with their skins on, into a saucepan of boiling water slightly salted, and boil quickly for 1 hour. Take out, wipe thoroughly, wrap each in a separate piece of paper, and bake in a moderate oven for about 2 hours. They may be served in their skins, and eaten with a piece of cold butter and a season- ing of pepper and salt; or be peeled, with a gravy. Parsnips, Boiled.—Wash, scrape, and remove all blemishes from the parsnips, cut them into quarters, and plunge into boiling water that has been slightly salted. Boil quickly until tender, and skim the water once or twice while cooking. Parsnips, Fricasseed.—Boil the parsnips in milk till soft, and cut lengthways into pieces 2 or 3 inches long. Simmer in a white sauce made with two spoonfuls of broth, a piece of mace, half a cupful of milk or cream, and a piece of butter, with flour, pepper, and salt. Fried Parsley for a Garnish,.—Wash, pick, and dry thoroughly, put it into a wire basket, and hold it in boiling beef dripping for two minutes ; take it out of the basket, and dry well before the fire. Boiled Potatoes.—The art of boiling potatoes has still to be learnt by many. The Irish method is good. Wash the potatoes and leave the skin on ; bring the water to a boil and throw them in. As soon as boiled soft enough for a fork to be easily thrust through, put in some cold water ; let the potatoes remain 2 minutes and then pour off. Then half remove the pot-lid, and let the potatoes remain over a slow fire till the steam is evaporated ; peel and serve in an open dish. Good potatoes thus cooked will be sweet, dry, and mealy. Potatoes A la Bonne Bouche.—Boil 12 medium-sized potatoes ; let them get cold, then cut into slices. Chop a blade of shallot and a little parsley very fine, place in a stewpan with 3 ounces butter and a pinch of mixed sweet herbs ; simmer slowly 5 minutes, then put iu the potatoes, sprinkle some seasoning over them, and simmer for 10 minutes, stirring to prevent burning. Just before serving squeeze the juice of a lemon over.