PIES, PUDDINGS, AND TAETS. 85 Apple Tart.—Pare, quarter, and core the apples, slice them very finely into a deep dish, grate some lemon-peel over, and add sugar and a little water; then place the paste over, covering the edge of the dish, roll out the pieces you cut off, and make a strip to go over the flat edge, all round it. Batter Puddings.—Put 3 teaspoonfuls of flour in a basin with 1 teaspoonful of salt and a £ nutmeg grated ; mix with | pint of new milk ; beat up 3 eggs, and stir well into the batter ; butter a basin or mould well, pour it in, tie it with a cloth, and boil 24 hours ; serve with sauce. This pudding may also be baked, for which £ hour is suf- ficient. Currants or stoned raisins may be added. Barley Puddings.—(1) Prepare 4 pound pearl barley, 1 quart of new milk, and 6 ounces of sugar. Soak the barley in water 12 hours. Pour off the water, add the milk, sugar, a saltspoonful of salt, and bake in a slow oven. To make a richer pudding, take it when nearly done, stir in 2 ounces of butter, 4 well-beaten eggs, a little Langdale’s almond essence, or other flavouring ; return to the oven in a buttered dish, and bake 1 hour.—(2) Put 2 tablespoonfuls of pearl-barley in 1 pint of new milk. Put in a jar, steam for 4 hours, and bake in a dish for about 1^ hours. No sugar or egg need be used. When rightly done the milk turns to cream, and the grains of barley are as soft as the cream. Bachelor’s Pudding.—Mix 1 egg, and 1 small apple minced, with its weight of flour, sugar, currants, breadcrumbs, and suet ; add a little milk ; boil in a basin 1J to 2 hours. Plain Bread Pudding.—Place in a bowl sufficient stale or broken bread, and add as much sweetened milk as the bread will absorb, with 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of finely-shred suet, and a little salt. Cover until well soaked, then beat the whole smooth, and add 2 well-beaten eggs, a few currants and raisins, and some grated nutmeg. A tablespoonful of rum added is an improvement. Bake in a dish for about 1J hours. Bread-and-Butter Pudding.—Cut sufficient slices of bread and butter, and put into a pie-dish, with currants between and on the top. Sweeten and flavour 1 j pints of milk, with some lemon-peel or a few drops of Langdale’s essence of vanilla ; beat 4 eggs, and stir into the milk. Strain this over the bread and butter, and bake in a moderate oven about 1 hour. College Pudding.—Chop 6 ounces of beef suet finely, and mix with 6 ounces of well-washed currants, 6 ounces of sifted sugar, 4 pound of finely-grated breadcrumbs, 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar, a dessertspoon- ful of chopped lemon-rind, £ of a nutmeg grated, 3 eggs well beaten, and 2 tablespoonfuls of brandy. Pour into well-buttered cups, and bake in a moderate oven for about 20 minutes. Turn the puddings out, and sift a little pounded sugar over. Cabinet Pudding.—Butter a cup or basin ; fill it with layers of raisins, bread and butter without crust, sugar, and a little grated nut- meg. Pour over a pint of milk mixed with 2 well-beaten eggs ; sweeten and flavour. Allow it to soak 4 hour, then place a plate on the top, and steam for 1 hour. Christmas Pudding.—Stone lit pounds of plums, wash 14 pounds of currants, chop very fine 1 pound of beef suet, and mix with them 14 pounds of grated bread ; add £ pound of candied peel cut into shreds, 3 ounces of almonds blanched and minced, and mixed spice and sugar