75 POULTRY AND GAME. to size. If boiled, and smothered with onion sauce, melt the butter with milk instead of water. Rabbit Pie.—Cut 2 rabbits into joints, and lay in a little lukewarm salt and water to cleanse them. Dry in a cloth ; flour and season with cayenne and salt. Arrange these in a pie-dish ; parboil the livers, and beat them in a mortar with their weight of fat bacon, a few bearded oysters, sweet herbs, and parsley chopped fine, a dust of flour, a few breadcrumbs, and with an egg, make this up into small balls, and distribute in the dish ; amongst the rabbit also place 1 pound of. fat pickled pork. Cut into small pieces. Grate over all half a good-sized nutmeg, and then add a glass of port wine and £ pint of water. Cover with a tolerably thick crust, and bake 1 hour in a quick but not violently heated oven ; when nearly done placing over the crust a buttered paper to prevent its becoming too brown. A small piece of tender rumpsteak placed at the bottom of the dish improves the gravy. Rabbit Pudding1.—Cut a rabbit into 12 pieces. Make a little gravy by stewing the head, liver, and a little bacon rind, and season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Line a buttered basin with good suet crust. Lay in the pieces of rabbit, seasoning each with pepper, salt, and cayenne, and put with them 3 or 4 ounces of bacon cut into strips. Pour over a teacupful of the stock cold. Put the cover on the top, press the edges closely together, and tie in a floured cloth. Put it into fast-boiling water, and boil quickly for 3 hours. Rabbit Stewed.—Divide a rabbit into quarters, lard with pretty large slips of bacon, and fry; then put them into a stewpan with sufficient good broth, a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little pepper and salt, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. When done enough, dish up, and pour over the sauce. Garnish with sliced lemon. Snipes Roasted.—Pluck, singe, and draw, remove the gizzards, and preserve the trails. Truss the bird, cover with thin slices of fat bacon, and tie these on securely with twine. Put down before a clear fire, and cook for 20 to 25 minutes. Take a slice of the crumb of bread, and toast and butter it on both sides. Chop the trail, spread it on the toast, and put the slices in a brisk oven. Dish on the slices of toast in a hot dish. Turkey Boiled.—To truss, cut the first joint of the legs off, pass the middle finger into the inside, raise the skin of the legs, and put them under the apron of the bird. Put a skewer into the joint of the wing and the middle joint of the leg, and run it through the body and the other leg and wing. The liver and gizzard must be put in the pinions. Then turn the small end of the pinion on the back, and tie a packthread over the ends of the legs to keep them in their places. Having trussed the turkey for boiling, put it, wrapped in a clean cloth, into sufficient hot water to more than cover it. Bring it gradually to a boil, and carefully remove the scum as it rises, or it will spoil the appearance of the bird. Simmer gently for 1J hours, or a longer time if of a larger size. When done, serve it on a hot dish, with a little celery sauce, oyster sauce, or with parsley and butter; put a small quantity of either over it, and send the other up in a tureen separately. —Mrs. Beeton’s Cookery Book. Turkey Roasted.—Pill the inside with veal stuffing or sausage meat, and either sew the skin of the neck over the back with a trussing- needle, or fasten it with a very small skewer. Then run a long skewer