KITCHEN AND DOMESTIC REQUISITES. 139 have occurred, and will re-occur, so long as the public persists in false economy, buying cheap and unscientifically-constructed lamps of foreign manufacture, and then using these so imperfectly as to practically court disaster. Dissatisfaction, again, is constantly expressed with the light yielded, but where in nine cases out of ten lies the blame ? With the housekeeper. Either the lamp is defective, the oil is bad, or the management is heedless. How can anyone look for that soft brilliant illumination so greatly admired in West-End lamp shops when oil is procured from a retailer below the wholesale cost in bulk for a decent second-rate article ? Comfort is then sacrificed to mere thoughtlessness or niggardliness. Such oil, as we indicate, must either be insufficiently rectified or adulterated, and its light cannot be other than unsatisfactory. Between good paraffin and good petroleum or kerosene, there is not much to choose. The distinction between the two is as follows. Paraffin is produced from Shale by a process of distilation, the chief seat of the industry being Scotland, while the rival oil is the natural product derived from wells sunk in America and the Baku region in Kussia. Paraffin comes somewhat less expensive than kerosene—if such an expression is permissible with regard to illuminants costing half the price of gas—it ignites more slowly, and flashes at a higher point. The balance of safety is therefore if anything on its side, but the glow from the best-fed paraffin lamp is less white and cheerful than when well-filtered kerosene is used, and in our opinion the latter is preferable. Still, as the consumer is to great extent in the dealer’s hands, perhaps the best advice to give amounts to this: ‘Never be tempted by imagined cheapness, and—when you can—patronize a first- class tradesman.’ Of more consequence still than good oil is a good lamp. As a first golden rule, the reservoir should be made from metal, not of glass or porcelain, since should a spill occur, the main danger of a conflagration is removed, and in the case of wall brackets and pendants the lamp should be made to fit into its stand so as to be readily portable. The burner should be ‘ Argand ’ or circular, and no detriment is experienced if the wick be raised in two sections ; perhaps the reverse as a duplex action facilitates trimming, while the flame can be regulated to a nicety. In Martin’s Patent Lighthouse Lamp— which may be taken as a thoroughly solid article embodying all recent improvements—the air is supplied to the centre by a tube running through the reservoir from its base. To this tube the wick fits tightly, enclosed by a second and removable tube joined to the head of the burner covering it closely from the reservoir to the edge of the flame. An ingenious device in the shape of a perforated cylinder, placed between these two tubes, facilitates the insertion and elevation or depression of the wick by a single winder, further precluding the lighted part from being turned down into the reservoir, thus guarding against explosions from a not uncommon origin. Inside the reservoir, and soldered to it at the top and bottom, is another tube covering the wick, keeping it from the main body of the oil, sufficient only to feed the wick being admitted through small holes at the bottom of the reservoir. In the event then of the lamp being overturned the oil is effectually prevented from escaping. The reservoir is filled from the outside through an aperture provided with a screwed cap, an indicator being attached which admits of the gas escaping when in any quantity, whilst preventing contact from the outside. Moreover the oil is kept