62 ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. alternate layers nntil the dish is full with ham at the top. The yolks of three eggs boiled hard and cut into slices may be added. Pour i a pint of stock on the meat. Line the edges of the dish with good pastry, cover with the same, ornament the surface, brush it over with yolk of egg, and bake in a well-heated oven. When done, pour a little boiling gravy into the pie, and serve. Knuckle of Boiled. Veal.—Put a knuckle into a stewpan, cover with cold water, boil, then simmer gently and skim frequently for 21 to 31 hours, or till the gristle is quite tender, but not till the flesh will leave the bone. Plain melted butter or parsley and butter may be both poured over and served with it. Bacon and greens or mashed turnips and potatoes are usually eaten with knuckle of veal, and the dish should be garnished with parsley, lemon-rind, and forcemeat balls. Roast Loin of Veal.—Place a piece of buttered paper round the lean part of the loin, and cover the kidney entirely with its fat. Hang the veal close to a good fire. After 20 minutes draw it back a little, and roast gently, basting frequently until done. Half an hour before it is taken up remove the paper, dredge a little flour on the veal, and sprinkle over it the strained juice of a lemon and a little salt. Continue to baste until brightly browned. Make a little brown sauce. Toast a round of bread. Put it on a hot dish, and place the veal upon it, with the kidney on the toast. Pour a little of the gravy over the meat, serve the rest in a tureen, and send a cut lemon to table on a plate. Bacon, ham, or tongue should be served with this dish. Time to roast the veal, 30 minutes to the pound. Calf’s Liver a PAinericaine.—Wash and dry the liver and cut slits in it, in each of which insert a small finger or strip of fat salt pork. Then flour, pepper, and salt, and bake for J an hour in a hot oven. Pour a little hot water into the pan after the liver has been taken up, and well stir round, so as to get all the gravy from the sides ; add a few drops of Lea and Perrin’s sauce, and a little salt. It makes a rich brown gravy to pour over the liver for table, where it should be carved in slices as thick as mutton is generally cut. Minced Veal.—Cut cold veal fine, but do not chop it. Add a little shred of lemon-peel, nutmeg, salt, and a few spoonfuls of water. Broth or milk may be used instead. Simmer gently, adding % piece of butter rubbed in flour and a squeeze of lemon-juice. PORK, HAM, AND BACON. Bacon, Boiled.—Put the piece of bacon to be boiled into the pot with sufficient cold water to cover. Allow it very gradually to come to a boil, removing all scum as it rises, and dra^v it aside to simmer until thoroughly done ; then pull off the skin and serve with bread- crumbs over. Time to boil 2 pounds, 1-i hours ; h hour for each addi- tional pound. Bacon and Beans.—Put the bacon into a pan with cold water, nearly full. When it has boiled over 1 hour, add the shelled broad beans, and boil till tender. Take off the skin from the bacon, sprinkle breadcrumbs over, and serve with the beans under, and fried parsley as a garnish round the dish. Bacon Toast.—Cut some thin slices of bread 2 or 3 inches long, cut some streaked bacon in small pieces, dip them into a raw egg beaten