ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 54 salmon. Serve on a folded napkin, garnish with lemon and parsley, horseradish and fennel, or fennel and red currants, and send shrimp, lobster, parsley, anchovy, or Dutch sauce to table with it. A dish of sliced cucumber is usually served with boiled salmon. To Keep Fish Fresh.—If fish is found to be slightly touched or tainted the best thing is to steep it for a short time in dilute Condy’s Fluid, which destroys the tainted particles, and leaves the fish per- fectly sweet and wholesome, and with its natural flavour unimpaired- When restored to freshness, cook it at once. Condy’s Fluid leaves neither taste nor smell of its own, so that its use cannot be detected, while its action is easily verified. Turbot, Boiled.—Four hours before cooking, soak the fish in salt and water ; then cleanse it, and make an incision down the middle of the back with a knife, to prevent the skin of the belly from crack- ing. Lay the fish in a clean kettle, cover with cold salted wrater, salt in the above proportion. Let it gradually boil, skim, and keep gently simmering. When the meat separates easily from the bone, take it out, drain well, and dish, garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Send up with lobster or shrimp sauce. Time, after the water boils, about b hour for a large turbot ; middling size, about 20 minutes. Average cost, large turbot, from 10s. to 21s. ; middling size, from 8s. to 15s. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient, 1 middling-sized turbot for 8 persons. Water Soucby.—Dabs, plaice, flounders, or any freshwater fish, are good for a souchy. Boil the fish in about 2 quarts water; stand aside the largest, and boil down 1 or 2 to rags in the liquor ; boil in it also some parsley. Pulp the fish which is boiled down, and chop the parsley fine. Return them to the liquor, heat the fish in it, and serve it in a deep dish accompanied by thin slices of brown bread and butter. Whiting aux Fines Herbes.—Fasten the fish with its tail in its mouth. Place it on a dish, season with pepper and salt, and sprinkle over it a teaspoonful of mixed sweet herbs in powder. Lay little pieces of butter thickly upon it, cover with another dish, and bake in a moderately-heated oven till done enough. Turn it once or twice that it may be equally cooked, and serve with the sauce poured over it. Time to bake the fish, 20 to 30 minutes. Whiting, Broiled.—Well cleanse the fish with salt and water, wdpe quite dry, dredge with flour, and broil over a clear fire. Serve ■with a piece of cold butter and salt and pepper. Whiting, Fried.—Halve, say, 6 small whiting and place them in equal proportions of vinegar, white wine, and water, with some salt, onion, a few blades of mace, and a little whole pepper, for about 1 hour ; dry, and put them into flour and fry in hot oil over a brisk tire ; serve with a little parsley, and add for sauce a large spoonful of good vinegar, with water, a little salt, some minced parsley, shallot, and a little lemon-juice. Whitebait.—Wash and drain them in a colander, flour them well, and sift fine breadcrumbs over them ; fry them in hot lard for about 1 minute. As soon as they rise, take them out. Sprinkle with salt and serve on a fish-cloth very hot. Petroleum Oil Stoves are the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. Samples of Wright and Butler’s Patent Oil Cooking Stoves may be seen at all Ironmongers’, through whom orders will be received. Illustrated Catalogue free from Wright and Butler, Limited, Birmingham.—See Advertisement.