ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. MO very cool and cannot percolate through the metal—an unpleasant and dangerous defect in many lamps. These lamps are fitted with an ingenious contrivance which, when placed upon the top of the burner and turned gently round, removes the carbonized portion of wick, cutting it perfectly even and leaving no dirt behind. Such a lamp is both economical and being manufactured of metal throughout absolutely safe, while the light—a pure oil being burnt—is simply intense. But to many a patent lamp, however perfect and reasonable in price, is an impossibility. Thousands of persons have perforce to content themselves with the less expensive but in the end dearer kinds sold at grocers and oil shops. These are dangerous, and require considerable care in management if a decent light is to be obtained. The following rules may be laid down, which apply to most lamps in use. 1. The wick should be thoroughly dried before being placed in the oil, and requires renewal at least once a month, since acting as a filter it absorbs the impurities in the petroleum and becomes clogged; it should fit the tube exactly, neither too tightly, nor too loosely, nor leaving any space at the sides for air to reach the oil-chamber ; it should be cut evenly at the top, only the charred portion being removed. 2. The reservoir should be filled every day to the top and cleaned out once a fortnight regularly. 3. The burner should be kept scrupulously clean in order to keep the air-holes, on which the life of the flame depends, from getting clogged up. If such has been allowed to occur through neglect clean well and boil the burner in strong soda and water for a few minutes. 4. In extinguishing, turn down the wick and blow across the chimney, or, better still, place something light on the top, cutting off the air current when the light will instantly go out. Lamp Filler.—With almost any lamp, Groom’s Oil Lamp Filler is invaluable, saving grease and dirt. One holding 3 pints can be had for less than 3s. at any ironmonger’s shop. Marking Ink.—Having introduced the subject of linen in a former place, the housewife may be thankful for a word of advice in re- gard to marking inks. Too great care cannot be taken in seeing that all table and crumb-cloths, serviettes, etc., are regularly and legibly marked, and with an ink which will resist for a long while the attacks of the modern laundress, with her science and chemicals. Soap, soda, and blue are not the only agents now used to deface markings. In most opinions, the ink which answers its purpose best is Bond’s 1 Oak Tree,’ which produces an almost indellible jet black, and can be used without fear of injury to the most delicate fabric, either with or without the application of heat. Although it has been before the public for over half a century, and has had to compete with many formidable rivals, it still holds its own. Metal Polishing.—For cleaning and polishing all kinds of metal, especially brass, we have found nothing better than Baumgartner’s ‘ La Brillantine,’ which is equally serviceable in brightening chandeliers, mirrors, and other glasswork. This article can also be safely used for cleaning silver and plated goods. Pickle-Fork.—A new competitor, named ‘ The Perfection,’ fills a void combining elegance, utility, and durability. To the bowl of a