73 POULTRY AND GAME. Goose, Braised.—Truss as if for boiling. Put into a stewpan with some fat bacon and savoury herbs laid above and under it, and a little stock to moisten it. Thick folds of paper should then be put on it, and the lid wrapped about with a cloth to prevent any of the steam escaping. The bird should be cooked very slowly for about five hours. Hashed Goose.—Cut up a cold goose into small pieces. Put some sliced onions into a stewpan with a piece of butter, and fry until tender. Add enough stock or water to make sauce for the hash, with a little pepper, salt, a bunch of sweet herbs, the bones and skin of the goose, and a glass of port or claret. Boil gently until the gravy is good, then strain, thicken, and put in the pieces of goose to get hot. It must not boil after the goose is added. Place the goose on a hot dish, pour the gravy over it, and garnish with toasted bread. Goose Roasted.—Stuff a goose with sage and onions, chopped small, and mix with pepper and salt; boil the sage and onions in a little water before they are chopped, or mix a few breadcrumbs when chopped. Put the bird first at a distance from the fire, and by degrees draw it nearer. Skewer a slip of paper on the breast-bone. Baste well. When the breast is rising take off the paper, and be careful to serve it before the breast falls. Serve with good gravy and apple-sauce, in boats Time, about 1J hours. Game, to keep Sweet.—Where game is a trifle too ‘ high ’ for the taste-of ordinary people the ‘gaminess’ may be cured without affecting the natural flavour by steeping the game in diluted Condy’s Fluid for a short time before putting it to the fire. This well-known preparation has the property of destroying organic matter which is in process of decomposition, and leaves neither taste nor smell of its own. Giblets with Stewed Potatoes.—Scald and dry the giblets (without the liver), place in a saucepan with butter, 6 onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and \ pound of bacon cut small. Fry in butter until of a pale yellow colour, sprinkle flour over, and in about 3 minutes moisten with hot water, season with more salt and pepper, and then boil for 1J hours. Add raw potatoes cut in slices ; again put on the saucepan to boil, basting the potatoes now and then with the giblet gravy. The liver (cut in small pieces) should be thrown in the pan for 10 minutes before the ragout is dished. Giblet-Pie.—After cleaning goose or duck giblets, stew with a small quantity of water, onion, black pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs, till nearly done. Let them get cold, and if not enough to fill the dish, lay a beef, veal, or 2 or 3 mutton steaks, at bottom. Put the liquor of the stew to bake with the above. Sliced potatoes may be added. Grouse.—Grouse should be roasted like fowls ; but twist the head under the wing. If at all overdone, they will be spoiled; time about £ hour ; great care must therefore be taken in cooking. Serve with a rich gravy and bread-sauce. Jugged Hare.—Take a large stone jar and place empty into the oven till it becomes very hot. Then take some sticks of cinnamon, a dozen cloves, four or five strips of thin lemon-peel, and bruise these in a pestle and mortar. Take a good-sized tablespoonful of black or red currant jelly, and a glass of port wine. Throw these into the hot jar, and place in the raw hare cut up into joints. Cover the jar with a