PART XI. Limited, Birmingham.—See Advertisement. TINNED AND PRESERVED GOODS AND EXTRACTS. The cheapness of most tinned meats, vegetables, fish, and fruit, and the convenient form in which they are now ‘ put up,’ renders them of growing importance as articles of everyday food. There is not a meal at which they cannot find a place. For a breakfast relish, we have rolled ox or sheeps’ tongues ; for an economical dinner, a variety of soups, and the most substantial and, if cleverly dressed, quite satis- factory boiled, roasted, and corned meat; for supper, the meat from dinner will make a capital rissole, or a tinned lobster an excellent salad —to say nothing of the tasty entries now preserved. An objection once raised against tinned goods was the ‘ tinned ’ flavour occasionally met with. Experience has shown, however, that this objectionable flavour was generally due to two causes—either the brand was inferior, or the tin had been allowed to remain open too long. It is as well, more especially in the case of preserved fruit and fish, to buy only the sized tins which can be used up at once. The length of time which sometimes passes between the date when pre- served foods are originally put up and their purchase by the consumer has also, doubtless, some effect upon quality. On account of their absolute freshness and prime quality, many of the preserved provisions tinned in England are now preferred. For meats and soups, the ‘ Sutherland ’ is one of the best English brands before the public. We have been over Mr. Carpenter’s factory in the Walworth Road, and can with confidence affirm that every care is taken to ensure the pro- duction of food articles of high excellence and absolute purity. Cer- tainly no American or Australian make equals the English rolled ox tongues of this brand, which can always be distinguished by being put up as shown in the accompanying illustration. Some very good special recipes and hints are given in Cassell’s ‘ Dictionary of Cookery ’ for preparing tinned provisions, and in a little volume by the writer of ‘ Choice Dishes at Small Cost,’ from which some of the recipes following are adapted. In using preserved goods of all kinds, says the latter writer, there are certain general principles to be observed with regard to all. The Petroleum Oil Stoves are the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. Wright and Butler’s Patent Oil Cooking Stoves render the kitchen cool and pleasant in the summer, as they are extinguished whenever the cooking is oyer. No dirt. No smell. No ashes. Illustrated Catalogue free from Wright and Butler,