SOUPS AND SAUCES. 39 the fowl boiled in the stock will certainly be preferred to one which has been boiled in water. And so with many other articles; for example, a small and well-cleaned ham may be cooked—and this is an affair of several hours—in a capacious stock-pot, with advantage equally to the soup and the ham,’ provided, of course, that the ham has already been in soak about 24 hours, for removing super- fluous salt. The fire for a stock-pot should be kept at a uniform degree of heat, not be too hot. The bones put into it should be broken and freed from meat ; the water is cold when the materials are first placed in it, and then a little salt is added. When boiling com- mences, and the scum rises, it should be cleared away, and this boiling should be repeated thrice. Then add the vegetables to the bones and meat, and when the boiling point is reached again the pot is put aside on the hob to simmer slowly and continuously. ‘ Care should be taken,’ says Jules Gouffe, ‘ not to salt the broth too highly at first, as it always becomes more salt on being warmed up tRe second day, and still more so when reduced to a sauce. Another essential is that of freeing the soup or broth from grease after the meat is removed, and while the pot is still on the fire. The vegetables,’ he adds, ‘ should be left in the broth until their flavour has been fully extracted, and then removed, as they would otherwise spoil the soup.’ These instructions apply both to stock and bouilli, or boiled flesh. ‘To make good bouillon,’ says our authority, ‘ the water must boil very gently.’ The cook must learn to discriminate in the matter of the strength of her stock. It may happen that it on some occasions may be so strong as to be, when cold, of the consistency of gelatine. This would clearly be too strong. Because one speaks of a quart of stock it must not be inferred that a quart as it comes from the stock-pot is meant. The best guide is to take a little on the lips, and if it causes them slightly to adhere together the stock is of such consistency as to make it fit for general purposes. Calf’s Foot Soup.—Cut a calf’s foot into 3 pieces, and put into a saucepan 3 stalks of celery, some parsley, a small sprig of thyme, an onion with 3 or 4 cloves stuck into it, and one quart of stock. Simmer gently for two hours, and skim. Take out the foot, strain the liquor, return it to the saucepan, and thicken with a desert-spoonful of rice flour. Just before the soup is served, add pepper and salt, and stir gradually into it a small cupful of milk or cream, mixed with the yolk of an egg and a dash of white wine. Stir over the fire for 2 or 3 minutes, but on no account allow it to boil. Serve, with the pieces of calf’s foot, in the tureen. Cabbage Soup.—First boil a piece of bacon in the quantity of water required for soup. Then while boiling put in a whole cabbage which has already been soaked in hot water. With the cabbage put in 2 carrots, turnips, leeks, celery to flavour, a large onion in which a clove has been stuck. Boil all together for four hours ; after then strain the