PART XIII. DRINKS. Sir Henry Thompson appears to have gained considerable influence as an authority in matters of eating and drinking, and since the publication of his work on dietetics, it has become more or less a habit with humbler followers in the same path to quote the versatile physician’s opinions as decisions from which there is no appeal. Thus it is frequently asserted even by those who should know, that it is a question whether a well- cooked meal is not more thoroughly appreciated and enjoyed if water only is drunk with it. Now this statement is either true or nonsensical according to the point of view from which it is regarded. And in order to settle from what point of view it is being regarded in any par- ticular case, one would have to first decide respecting a number of important considerations. For example, of whom are we speaking ? A man of coarse palate and voracious appetite, or one of delicate, dis- criminating taste and average capacity in consumption. Does the meal in question consist of a single joint of roast pork or a sequence of artis- tically prepared dishes ? One rule will not apply to all the varying conditions existing between these two extremes ; and one may safely rely that all similarly comprehensive assertions are necessarily more wrong than right. The test of appreciation and enjoyment is obviously dependent on individual taste, which must eventually decide. It would be absurd to tell anyone that they would enjoy their dinner more if they drank only water with it, when experience had clearly pointed out to them that a glass of beer or some other beverage perceptibly in- creased the pleasure afforded by their food. At the same time a person who has had experience of ‘ drinks ’ can no doubt give valuable hints for general guidance ; he may call attention to merits that would otherwise be overlooked ; he may sound a useful note of warning or Petroleum Oil Stoves are the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. Economy. During periods of depression it behoves every housekeoper to be on the watch, and we certainly think Wright and Butlor’s Patent Portablo Oil Stoves a great saving on coal, and as to efficiency they leavo nothing to bo desired. Illustrated Catalogue free from Wright and Butler, Limited, Burning- ham.—See Adverlticnunt. 8—2