MEATS : JOINTS, STEAKS, CHOPS, ENTREES, ETC. 61 VEAL. Veal a la Bourgeoise.—Take about 3 pounds of the fillet, loin, or neck. Cut into neat pieces, and fry in a little butter till brightly browned. Add 2 slices lean bacon, 3 carrots, 3 onions (each with a clove stuck in it), a large bunch of herbs, blade of mace, pepper and salt. Pour over all boiling stock to cover, and simmer together gently until the meat is done. Take it out, skim the sauce, strain it, and boil quickly to reduce it; then add a spoonful of ‘ Couleur Parisienne to colour it, and a dash of ketchup or tomato sauce. Place the meat in a dish with the carrots round it, and some of the gravy. Serve the rest in a tureen. Braised Veal.—Take about 3 pounds of the loin or the best end of the neck. Lay 2 or 3 thin slices of lean bacon or ham in the bottom of a saucepan, and place the veal on them. Add a carrot, an onion stuck with 2 cloves, a teaspoonful of chopped, tinned, or fresh mush- rooms, a lump of sugar, a small blade of mace, a pinch of grated nut- meg, a little pepper, and salt. Place thin slices of fat bacon upon the veal, and pour on it ^ pint of cold stock or water. Cover closely, and simmer gently till done. Take up the veal, put it on a hot dish, and keep hot. Skim the gravy, and rub it with the ham, vegetables, etc., through a fine hair sieve. Let it boil up, stir in a wineglassful of sherry, pour it on the veal, and serve hot. Cold Veal, Re-cooked.—Cut some cold veal into thin slices, the size of a halfcrown, dip them into the yolk of an egg well beaten, cover with breadcrumbs, sweet herbs, lemon-peel shred fine, and grated nut- meg. Put a little fresh butter into a pan, make it hot, fry the veal in it, and when done, lay it on a dish by the side of the fire ; make a little gravy of a bone of veal, shake a little flour into the pan, stir it round, add the gravy and a little lemon-juice, pour it over the veal, and garnish with lemon. Cold Veal, Hashed.—Cut the meat in slices, flour it, put it into a saucepan with a little good gravy, some grated lemon-peel, pepper, salt, and ketchup. Make it hot, then add a little lemon-juice ; serve fried sippets round the dish. Veal Cutlets.—Take some cutlets from the best end of the neck. Trim them neatly, and flour. Fry in butter or good dripping until cooked through. Pour away the fat, and dissolve a slice of fresh butter in the pan, stir a dessert-spoonful of flour into it, and when quite smooth and brown add very gradually a cupful of boiling gravy which has been made by stewing the trimmings of the veal very gently for an hour or more with a little water, a small roll of lemon- rind, an onion, half a blade of mace, a sprig of parsley and thyme, and a little pepper and salt. This sauce may, if liked, be flavoured with a little lemon-juice or walnut pickle, or with a few mushrooms. Serve the cutlets on a hot dish with the sauce poured over. A few fried forcemeat balls and some fried rashers of bacon may be served with them. Veal and. Ham Pie.—Take to 2 pounds of lean veal. Cut into small pieces. Put a layer at the bottom of a pie-dish, and sprinkle upon the meat a little pepper and salt, a pinch of grated lemon-rind, another of powdered mace, and another of minced savoury herbs. Lay upon these two or three slices of ham or streaky bacon, and repeat the