VEGETABLES AND SALADS. 83 Tomatoes and Rice.—While sufficient rice is being boiled, put into a little saucepan 3 ounces of butter, which should be allowed to brown very slowly—if it has the faintest tinge of 1 burn it is spoiled —put into it a large breakfastcupful of tomato juice, which should be left to simmer for about J hour. When the rice is nicely piled on the dish, throw the contents of the saucepan over it, and then ‘ pop ’ it into the oven for a few minutes, and serve very hot. Vegetable Extracts.—By depriving peas and other vegetables in a superior condition of growth and freshness of all their more soluble elements, the Normal Company of London and Aberdeen have produced a nourishing variety of vegetable extracts, which will be found peculiarly serviceable in soup-making, at once adding to the variety and flavour, and increasing the stimulating and nourishing pro- perties of soups made with them. > Turnip-Tops.—Trim off the decayed leaves and stems, and wash greens in several waters. Drain and throw into a saucepan with plenty of boiling water slightly salted. Keep the saucepan uncovered, and boil quickly till they are quite tender. When done, put into a colander, and squeeze the water gently from them. Turn into a hot vegetable- dish, pepper lightly, and spread a little butter on them ; cut the sur- face across both ways with a knife, and serve. Turnips, Boiled.—Pare and wash ; if very young, a little of the green top may be left on ; if very large, they should be divided into halves or even quarters. Throw into slightly-salted water, and boil gently till tender. Drain and serve. Stewed Turnips 4 la Franchise.—Peel and wash \ dozen turnips, and boil in salted water till tender. Drain them, and in the water they have been boiled in simmer gently a cupful of breadcrumbs for 5 or 6 minutes. Wash the turnips, and put into another saucepan with the boiled bread and a little butter and pepper. Stir over a gentle fire till they are quite hot, an,d mix with them the yolk of an egg beaten up with 2 tablespoonfuls of milk. Stew gently a minute or two longer, and serve very hot. Boiled Vegetable Marrow.—Peel, halve, and if very large, quarter ; remove the seeds, and put them into boiling water. Simmer gently until tender. Take them up with a slice, drain, and serve upon toast, with melted butter in a tureen. Cook young marrows 15 to 20 minutes ; old marrows, § hour. Vegetable Marrow auGratin.—Semi-boil a couple of marrows, quarter them lengthwise, drain thoroughly, and place upon a buttered dish, previously rubbed with a slice of shallot or garlic. Sprinkle over well with grated Parmesan cheese, pepper and salt to taste, and a little grated nutmeg. Lay small pieces of butter upon them here and there, dust over plentifully with powdered baked breadcrumbs ; bake 20 minutes, and serve hot. Vegetable Marrow Preserve.—Peel the marrows, remove the seeds, cut in pieces the size of large plums, boil with their weight in sugar till transparent. No water is required. Flavour with ginger and lemon, or ginger or lemon, to taste. Petroleum Oil Stoves are the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. One of Wright and Butler’s Patent Oil Cookers in a working-man's homo will repay fully the original cost in one month by its saving in fuel alone. Illus- trated Catalogue free from Wright and Butler, Limited, Birmingham.—See Advcr- tuernnt. 6—2