128 ENGLISH ANIJ FRENCH COOKERY. Carving Adjuncts.—The inconvenience and discomfort expe- rienced by everyone who carves on an ordinary dish has brought into the field several notable inventions. First among these is the ‘ Com- mon-Sense ’ carving-dish, having a raised centre fitted with spikes, and surrounded by a bead which, while preventing slipping and splashing, affords the carver easy access to all parts of the joint, thus enabling brawn or rolled ribs of beef to be sliced fine and evenly to the very last. The ‘ Carver’s Friend,’ which has attained a large sale, accomplishes the same purpose. It is a spiked, plated attachment placed over the dish, and which, working by an Archimedean screw, can be made to fit any sized dish. Hill’s spoon-rest, made by Messrs. J. Finder and Co., of Sheffield, clips on to the sides, and by using two pair at once, both carver and fork and gravy-spoon can be accommodated. By an inge- nious arrangement any drippings fall into the dish. Chamois Heathers.—In this instance an imitation is superior to th^ genuine leather. Hothersall’s cloths, while rivalling real chamois in its polishing powers, claims the double advantage of comparative cheapness, and of remaining soft after immersion in water. Cooking Utensils.—Since Mrs. Ellet wrote on the subject of culinary and kitchen requirements, science has marched grandly along, and there is now little need to warn the housekeeper against using lead, brass, or copper utensils, or to advocate cleanliness on the part of the housekeeper and her assistants ; but there are two of her remarks worth reproducing : ‘ Some articles of food, such as quinces, orange- peel, artichokes, etc., are blackened by remaining in iron vessels, which must not therefore be used for them,’ and ‘ the best kind of pottery-ware is Oriental china, because the glazing is a perfect glass which cannot be dissolved, and the whole substance is so compact that liquid cannot penetrate it. Many of our own pottery-wares are badly glazed, and as the glazing is made of lead, it is necessary to avoid putting acids into them. Acids and greasy substances penetrate into unglazed wares— excepting the strong stoneware—or into those of which the glazing is cracked, and hence give a bad flavour to anything they are used for afterwards. They are quite unfit, therefore, for keeping pickles or salted meats. Glass vessels are infinitely preferable to any pottery- ware but Oriental china, and should be used whenever the occasion admits of it.’ Enamelled iron saucepans and saute-pans are rapid]}- usurping the place once occupied by tinned-copper and tinned-iron wares, their most dangerous rivals being the tin-coated ‘ Sanitary Seamless Steel ’ pots and pans, which won such golden eulogiums at the Health Exhibition. Combined with cheapness, these utensils possess all the advantages with few of the drawbacks found in copper or ena- melled goods, the latter of which have an unpleasant habit of cracking when over-heated, or if left on the stove empty. ‘ Seamless Steel ’ is of about the same thickness and weight as copper, is almost equally durable, and is free against all danger from copper contamination, verdigris, arsenic, or brazing. Blocked-tin saucepans are, of course good, but they are not durable, although easily mended. For small omelet and saut^-pans and milk saucepans there is nothing superior to fire-proof porcelain. Another great improvement has been patented by Messrs. T. and C. Clark and Co., of Wolverhampton, who now fit their hollow-ware with fluted instead of plain handles. The corruga- tions at once secure a firmer grip and comparative coolness. The