ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 92 Popper, and serve with gravy or Liebig’s extract of meat. Should the eggs chance to be hard, immerse in cold water on removing from pot. Seasoned Egg'S.—Out an onion in dice ; put in a hot pan J ounce butter ; turn on the fire 1 minute. Add a little flour, and 1 gill milk ; boil 5 minutes. Add 4 hard eggs cut in large dice ; season with salt, pepper, and celery salt. Serve hot. Fritters for Batter.—Mix into a smooth batter 8 ounces of fine flour with about ^ pint of water ; dissolve 2 ounces butter over a slow fire, and then stir it by degrees into the flour. Stir lightly in the whites of 2 eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Flavouring Essences form such a valuable adjunct to the rapid production of tasty and appetising savouries, custards, pastry, puddings and jellies, that a few words of counsel as to their use seems worth im- parting, more especially since several deaths have been traced to the too free use of cheap, carelessly-manufactured articles. It cannot be too widely known that the essences of bitter almonds, noyeau, peach kernels, and ratafia, are highly poisonous unless freed from their de- structive properties, as in the ingenious process originated by Mr. G. F. Langdale, of Hatton Garden, whose various preparations are guaranteed absolutely innocuous. The essences most commonly favoured in domestic economy are those named below : For cakes, custards, blancmanges, ices and jellies, the essences of lemon, bitter almonds, vanilla, peach- kernels, cinnamon, nutmeg, and more rarely pineapple. For biscuits, buns, cakes, etc., Jamaica ginger, caraway seeds, allspice, and mixed spices. Essence of cloves is useful for flavouring stewed apples, stewed pears, and confectionery, and for pickling—a teaspoonful to a gallon of vinegar being sufficient. Kaspberry, strawberry, and cherry impart an" exquisite and true flavour to ices, creams, and custards, as also to cooling drinks—the former more particularly. Orange is used in pre- paring orangeade, orange syrup, and flavouring confectionery, and rennet for making curds and whey ; camphor, peppermint, and black currant are mainly therapeutic, while the liquid extract .of cochineal and concentrated Spanish saffron serve as colouring agents. Alto- gether some 120 essences are distilled, so that almost any imaginable culinary want can now be met. Fruit, Stewed.—One secret of good stewed fruit is to avoid over- stewing, a second is to stew in syrup. One pound of sugar to a pint of water makes a good syrup. The sugar and water should be boiled in an enamelled or patent ‘ sanitary ’ seamless steel stew-pan. When the syrup is boiling, the fruit should be added, and removed as soon as soft. A dish of green gooseberries, for instance, stewed in syrup, is incom- parable by the side of gooseberries stewed, as they often are, with nothing but sugar. The pure flavour of the fruit is retained when slightly cooked with syrup. With stewed fruit, we may dispense with pastry, eating it with bread and butter, biscuit, milk, pudding, or blancmange. Gooseberry Fool.—Stew 1 quart of ripe gooseberries in enough water to cover, and when soft and broken, rub through a sieve to remove the skins. While still hot, beat in 1 tablespoonful butter, 1 teacup sugar, and whipped yolks of 4 eggs. Pile in a glass dish, and heap upon the top a miring lie made from the whipped whites and 3 tablespooufuls of pounded white sugar.