SWEETS AND SAVOURIES. 91 Lemon Creams.—Pare 2 lemons very thin, and throw the peel into 6 tablespoonfuls of wat»r ; squeeze the juice over 4 ounces finely- powdered sugar. Well beat the yolks of 5 eggs ; then add the peel, water, and juice gradually, and strain through muslin into a stew-pan. Stir one way over a gentle fire till the mixture becomes pretty thick, but do not let it boil. Serve in custard cups. White Lemon Creams are made in the same way, but using the whites instead of the yolks of eggs. Delicious tartlets may also be made by adding to the preparation a little finely-crumbled spongecake, and proceeding as with lemon cheesecakes. Normandy Cream.—Put into a saucepan \ pint cream, 1J pints milk, 1J ounces Nelson’s gelatine, castor sugar to taste, and flavouring; stir well, and allow to boil. Have ready a wetted quart mould; arrange tastily in the bottom some candied fruit of different colours. Pour in a little of the cream, and set away to cool. When firm, but not quite cold, lay in carefully more candied fruit, and add more of the cream ; repeat till the mould is full. Swiss Cream.—Boil 1 pint thick cream with a slice or two of lemon-peel, and pour into a bowl with a little crushed lump sugar. When quite cool, add the juice of 2 lemons ; soak £ pound of macaroons in a glass dish with a little marsala, sherry, or brandy, and pour the cream over. Ice Cream.—Omitting the butter and salt, the preparation for custard will make an excellent ice cream. Oswego Boiled Custard.—2 tablespoonfuls of Kingsford’s Pre- pared Com to 1 quart milk ; mix the corn with a little milk, and flavour to taste with any of Langdale’s flavouring essences. Beat up 2 eggs. Heat the remainder of the milk to near boiling ; then add the mixed corn, the eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar, a little butter and salt. Boil 2 minutes, stirring briskly. Boiled Custards.—Put into an enamelled saucepan 1 pint milk, 2 ounces crushed sugar, 3 bitter almonds blanched and pounded, and when hot, but not boiling, pour gently in 3 well-beaten eggs (or the yolks of 4). Pour the mixture into a jug; stand same in a deep saucepan of boiling water, and stir till thickened. Serve in custard cups. Eggs, Curried.—Cut 1 apple and 1 onion in thin rings, and fry till brown in boiling butter (about 1 ounce to 1J ounces). Mix on a plate 1 dessertspoonful curry-powder with 1 of flour, and sift into the frying-pan with the onion, etc. Shake about gently, and pour in a cupful of water. Have ready prepared 4 eggs, hard-boiled and shelled, which divide in quarters, and put in the pan until quite hot, and serve them in the centre of the dish with the curry. Surround with a wall of boiled rice. Eggs sur le Plat.—Melt 1 tablespoonful butter in a shallow baking-dish. Break 6 eggs into this ; slightly dust with pepper and salt, and put in a moderate oven until the whites are well set. Serve in the same dish. Poached Eggs.—Into a saucepan of boiling water break a few eggs carefully, and let boil for 3 or 4 minutes ; then take out with a slice, and serve either upon toast, spinach, or whatever you please. Poached Eggs with Gravy.—Into a saucepan three-parts full of boiling water, and in which a little salt and vinegar has been stirred, carefully break 4 or more eggs. When set, take out; drain on a cloth.