PART XY. DIET AND COOKERY FOR DOGS. Well-nigh every home now has its dog or dogs, and as with man the health and comfort of his 1 four-footed faithful servitor and friend ’ depends, however little the fact may be recognised, upon regularity in living, and the nature of the food given him. In the domesticated state the digestive organs of the canine, more particularly among the higher and valuable breeds, are far from strong as is popularly supposed. On the contrary, his organization is complex and delicate, as any experienced breeder will at once confirm. Not uncommonly we hear people say, ‘ Oh, a dog’s stomach will digest anything.’ Many, unfortunately, act up to this ignorant belief, the life, and when not the life, the vigour of the animal being cruelly sacrificed. And why this unintentional cruelty ? Because the dog in order to assist a naturally weak digestion delights to gnaw bones, and at time, for some occult reason, displays a morbid appetite for offal, filth, and putrid flesh, from which depravities he should be relentlessly driven seeing how often they engender serious, sometimes fatal diseases. To be in good health, and to retain it, the ‘ canine ’ needs to be judiciously, regularly, and well fed ; his food should be thoroughly cooked and adapted to his individual powers and condi- tions of existence, care being taken to overcome any innate objection to a partly vegetarian diet, without which action will be irregular, and suffering ensue. Animals used in early life to Spratt’s Puppy Pood, or whose mothers were fed on Spratt’s biscuits before whelping, seldom display this troublesome dislike to vegetables. With a 1 dainty feeding ’ puppy, who shows repugnance to diet other than he particularly fancies, it is equally essential to conquer. Perhaps the surest and safest way to accomplish this is to leave an option between broken fibrine cake and enjoying the pangs of hunger. Pup’s decision is certain. Cat’s meat should never be given dogs, although some like it well. Apart from the constant hazard of infection it entails, horseflesh is commonly salted to prevent it turning putrid, especially in summer. It is then injurious, besides causing the breath to smell unpleasantly. Por pet-dogs its use should be absolutely tabooed. In a sense, but only in a sense, the dog is omnivorous. By this we mean that collectively dogs eat almost anything, whereas individual tastes widely differ. Some animals display a predilection for one sort of meat, others for some other sort. Some, again, are disposed towards fish, bread, fruit, pastry and sweets. A pug-dog lying at our feet goes visibly into ecstacies over bread-and-cheese. Similarly, dogs who have been reared upon Spratt’s Puppy Pood and biscuits usually prefer and