ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY, 83 rice, 3 pints of milk, 1 ounce of butter, 4 ounces of sugar, a pinch of allspice, and one of salt, stir over the fire until the batter boils. Beat up 2 or 3 eggs and mix well into the batter ; then pour the whole into a well-greased pie-dish, and bake for an hour. Plain Rice Pudding1.—For every quart of milk add 6 ounces of rice, 1 ounce of brown sugar, a pinch of allspice, and one of salt. Put all these in a proper-sized pie-dish, with 1 ounce of butter, and bake for 1J hours. Semolina French. Pudding.—Boil a quart of milk with a little sugar. When boiling stir in from 3 to 4 ounces of Marshall’s semolina, and let it boil for 5 minutes. Beat well 2 eggs, yolks and whites separately. Add these to the semolina, when it has slightly cooled. Melt some sugar with a little water in a pudding-tin over the fire, and smear the sides well with it. Pour the mixture into the tin, and steam for 1-1 hours. It will turn out a delicious pudding, beautifully browned all over. Can be flavoured to taste. Semolina Pudding.—Take 11, pints of milk ; when boiling, drop into it 3 tablespoonfuls of semolina, and stir all together for about 15 minutes ; throw in 2 ounces of butter and 3J ounces of sifted sugar, with the grated rind of a lemon. Whilst the semolina still remains hot, beat gradually and briskly into it 4 eggs. Bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, J hour. Strawberry and Custard Pudding.—Place 4 tablespoonfuls of Southwell’s strawberry jam in a buttered pie-dish, cover with 4 ounces of breadcrumbs, and add some custard made with a pint of milk, 2 eggs, and a little sugar. Stir the custard over the fire till it begins to thicken, pour it gradually upon the breadcrumbs, and bake in a moderate oven for ^ hour. Rhubarb and Batter Puddings—Fill a buttered pie-dish with rhubarb cut as for a tart. Make a rich batter with 2 or 3 eggs, allow- ing a tablespoonful of flour to each egg, and sufficient milk to form the mixture into a thick cream. Pour it over the rhubarb, and serve with fine white sugar and melted butter. The pudding should be turned out of the dish. Sultana Pudding.—Cornflour may be used, in the proportion of 3J ounces to a quart of milk. After boiling, and briskly stirring for 8 minutes, beat up and’add 2 eggs, with 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar, and add the sultanas. Pour into a pie-dish and bake until brown in a moderate oven. Tapioca Pudding.—Four spoonfuls of tapioca to a pint of milk ; boil till thick, stirring often. When cool add 3 eggs, some butter, nut- meg, and lemon-peel; sweeten to taste. Bake about 1 hour. Vermicelli Pudding.—Take 4 ounces of vermicelli, and boil in a pint of milk till soft, with a stick or two of cinnamon. Then put in 4 pint of cream or condensed milk, J pound of butter, J pound sugar, and the yolks of 4 eggs beaten fine. Bake in a dish. Yorkshire Pudding.—Heat a tin, and rub it well with dripping ; beat up 3 eggs and a teaspoonful of salt. Add a pint of milk, and when well mixed, stir gradually into 4 pound of flour, to make a perfectly smooth batter. Pour into the tin, and bake it for about J hour. Petroleum Oil Stoves are the cheapest, safest, aud most efficient way of cooking known. Wright and Butler’s Patent Oil Cooking Stove, No. 40, will roast a joint of 7 lbs., boil a fowl, pudding, and vegetables, as well as steam the potatoes, at one time, and at a cost of one penny. Illustrated Catalogue free from Wright and Butler, Limited, Birmingham.—See Advertisement.