KITCHEN AND DOMESTIC REQUISITES. 1S3 entailing delicate manipulation and nice adjustment of heat, such as the preparation of jellies, preserves or compotes nothing can be more suitable or advantageous. Oil Stoves.—To pass to another method of cooking, to an interest- ing competitor which is rapidly growing in popularity, it is certainly astonishing to what perfection oil cooking stoves have been carried, and to what extent they have overcome an, at first sight, apparently justi- fiable prejudice. Cook a joint by means of an oil lamp ? Why, a few years ago the idea would have been regarded as a rather pointless joke. It would have been deemed bnpossible to so completely subdue the all- pervading and penetrating smell of oil as to cook even anything less susceptible to such influence than meat. And yet the heating lamps have been perfected to a degree which permits the toasting of a slice of bread by holding it directly over the flame, without imparting the slightest tell-tale flavour. Of course, this remark only applies to very first-rate stove lamps, and is not intended to convey the idea that the proceeding described is the proper way to toast bread by the aid of an oil stove. It is merely an illustration of what may be done. The best stoves of this description are those manufactured by Wright and Butler, of Birmingham, to whose particular designs the following remarks more especially apply. An oil stove of sufficient size will satisfactorily com- pete, in time and quality of cooking, with an ordinary kitchen range and at less cost. With regard to the first consideration, it is only possible to support the assertion by stating that the heat, either for baking or surface heating, given out by one of Wright and Butler’s lamps is sufficient to perform either process as rapidly as it may be done to advantage, and this merit exists side by side with another which is wanting in the case of the ordinary kitchen range, viz. : the power to reduce and regulate the degree of heat at will. On the second point —the quality of the cooking—it is possible to speak with confidence. The ovens are perfectly ventilated, and rpasting meat or baking pastry are respectively conducted under the best conditions. In the matter of economy these stoves have obvious advantages : the exceedingly low price of oil, the trifling quantity consumed, and finally, the all-important fact that the consumption of ‘ fuel ’ does not extend except by a few minutes, beyond the actual time occupied in cooking. The convenience of being enabled to cook literally anywhere, from the dining-room to the scullery, are additional attractions which only require to be men- tioned. And finally, in case anyone may be possessed by an unreason- ing dread of complicated parts and possible dangers, it should be pointed out that these stoves are simplicity itself, and are readily manipulated and managed by any ordinary domestic servant. Wicks should be trimmed regularly, and when a new wick is necessary there is no difficulty in fitting, the burner being removable for this purpose. By means of a patent filler and indicator, the supply of oil can be replenished without any risk of spilling or overflowing. These stoves are absolutely safe. With the object of preventing all possibility of the oil becoming heated, and consequently dangerous, a plan has been devised of increasing the distance between the points at which the oil burns and the oil vessel itself. The result of this is that a current of air is constantly passing between these points, and the oil in the vessel is maintained at its normal temperature. There are three points on which Wright and Butler’s stoves maybe strongly recommended : their