31 FOOD IN RELATIONSHIP WITH NUTRITION AND DIGESTION. conjunction with milk or Liebig’s Extract, in order to supply its original deficiency in nitrogen. Indeed, one may go so far as to say that all farinaceous foods—certainly all of the arrowroot class—should be thus administered where any feebleness exists. Semolina, a very fine kind of wheat-flour, naturally occupies a prominent place among farinaceous foods, containing in a light and palatable form the needful constituents of a perfect food. As a pudding, which is its chief function, it may be strongly recommended for the use of children and invalids, being'particularly easy of digestion. Some of the newer and improved forms of semolina leave scarcely any- thing to be desired. Minor Farinaceous Foods,—The grain of the oat in its many admirable forms, whether as oatmeal, oat-flour, rolled or crushed oats, affords an admirable substitute for bread and meat; but its heat- giving, bone and muscle building, and nourishing properties are so widely known and appreciated, that brief mention will here suffice. Oatmeal, it may be said, as sold loose at corn-chandlers’ shops, suffers from notorious gastronomic defects, which enterprising Scotch firms like Gunn and Scott have tried to rectify. To some considerable extent they have succeeded, and without hesitation we may add that the best and most reliable oaten preparations are now to be obtained in bags and packages. Sago and Tapioca, being mainly starches, possess little or no flesh-fcrming qualities, and should be eaten with milk or broth, when they form light, wholesome, and nutritious food— sago, a species of palm-meal, being specially digestible. Arrowroot, the pith of the root Maranta arundinacea, is a fine white powder, which similarly consists chiefly of pure starch. Being extremely light of digestion it is commonly used in cases of sickness, but its nutritive qualities are slight. The best arrowroot comes from Bermuda, and in- ferior kinds from St. Vincent, Natal, and the West Indies. The former is so universally allowed to be superior, that unless it is essential to consider the purse no other should be used, especially in making gruel. Maizkna, as its name implies, is derived from maize or Indian corn, and in the form put up affords a convenient addition to any store- room. Rice forms too staple an article of daily diet to be summarily dismissed. Carolina rice is so pre-eminently nutritious, compared with the commoner sorts, that even at its higher price it is, all things con- sidered, the cheaper article of diet. Java is the next best, containing considerable gluten ; while Patna is most serviceable for curries and where cohesion is not desired. Rangoon rice is little better than a starch, and should never be bought when other qualities are procurable. Among the preparations of rice may be noticed Groult’s Crinie de Biz, and the new article, ‘ Rizine,’ both possessing considerable merit. Italian Paste is a generic name for a whole tribe of South European