65 MEATS : JOINTS, STEAKS, CHOPS, ENTRIES, ETC. thick, but less if thin. A piece of garlic. Serve with plain or maitre d’hStel butter. Mutton Chops, Grilled.—Shred some shallot or onion, and mince some savoury herbs ; put these into a stewpan with a lump of butter. Dip each chop into the dissolved butter, and cover quickly with finely-prepared breadcrumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt. Broil on one side for 3 minutes, then turn. The fire should be slow and even. Serve hot, with a bit of plain butter on the top of each chop. Mutton Cutlets, with Hot Sauce.—Cut as many cutlets from neck of mutton as required, trim and shape by chopping off the super- fluous bone, and beat them flat ; broil them over a clear fire, and dish in the centre of a hot dish. Pour round the cutlets a sauce made with good brown stock, thickened with a dessertspoonful of flour and curry powder ; also chop up and add a little hot piclde, and serve with the cutlets a little boiled rice placed at intervals on the dish as a garnish. Mutton Cutlets, a la Soubise.—Stew some cutlets for 2 hours ; cut into slices 6 or 7 large onions, boil them for ^ hour, pour off the water, add milk, pour round the cutlets, and serve. Mutton Cutlets, h la Valenciennes.—Crumb the cutlets with breadcrumbs and chopped ham ; fry them in butter. Cut a small onion very fine, brown it in butter, then add a handful of rice and some bacon cut in dice, some chopped parsley, and a little tomato sauce ; stew the rice with some good stock. When done, put it in the centre of the cutlets, and serve up with a rich brown sauce. Haricot Mutton.—Cut 3 pounds of neck of mutton into cutlets, and fry them in dripping till browned, and with them 3 carrots, 2 turnips, and an onion, all sliced. Drain them from the fat, and put them into a saucepan. Pour over them a quart of water, which has been boiled in the pan in which the meat, etc., was fried, and thicken with a tablespoonful of flour, mixed smoothly with a little cold water. Skim well, and season with salt, pepper, and ketchup. Simmer for an hour. Serve with the meat in the middle of the dish, the vegetables round, and the gravy over. A few sippets of toasted bread may be placed at the bottom of the dish, or served as a garnish. Mutton, Curry of.—Cut the mutton in thin slices, taking off all the. fat, into dice ; cut some onions also into dice, and fry them ; when nearly done, add the meat and curry powder (in the proportion of a tablespoonful to each pound of meat); fry them all lightly ; when almost brown, pour in 2 cupfuls of water ; put the whole into a stew- pan, cover, and simmer for an hour, or more, according to the quantity. A little pickle may be added. Have some rice, boiled very dry, in a separate dish. Haunch of Mutton, Roast.—Skin the loin, cover the joint with white paper, or with a paste of flour and water. Put it before a good fire for the first ^ hour, basting frequently with dripping. When within J hour of being done, take off the covering, and brown slightly. Dredge the haunch with flour, and baste with butter ; but first pour the dripping from the pan. Make a gravy in the pan with what has dripped from the meat, and a little boiling broth made from the trimmings ; salt and pepper. Serve currant jelly, or currant-jelly sauce. Time, from 10 to 15 minutes per pound. 5