40 ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. liquid from the bacon, etc. While the liquid is boiling up again, cut some sippets of bread, put them in a saucepan, cover them with a little stock, and some of the fat that rises on the top of the stock-pot. Boil the sippets in this for five minutes, then place them in the tureen and pour the liquid from the vegetables and bacon on the top. The cabbage and bacon are dished up separately, and eaten after the soup. Celery Soup.—Cut the white part of 2 heads of celery into pieces an inch long, place in a saucepan with \ pint of good white stock, 1 ounce of butter, 2 ounces of lean ham, and a small lump of sugar. Boil for a quarter of an hour, put in with them 2 pints more of stock, a little salt, and a blade of mace. Stew gently for an hour, then press the soup through a coarse sieve. Make it hot again, pour it into a tureen, add J pint of boiling cream or milk, and serve at once with toasted .-ippet-. Chantilly Soup.—Boil a pint of green peas, shelled, 3 spring onions, and a sprig of mint, until the peas are tender. Remove the mint and onions, press the peas through a sieve, and pour 3 pints of boiling stock to them. Serve very hot. Chicken Broth.—Cut up an old fowl, put it into 3 pints of water or stock, add a teaspoonful of rice or barley, and simmer for an hour ; skim and season with pepper and salt. Chollet’s Condensed Soups.—Viz., pea, lentil, haricot-bean, carrot (‘ Cr'ecy ’), Julienne, sorrel, and cheese. These are put up in tins with patent opening keys, each tin containing sufficient for 8 or 9 plates of excellent soup, and will be found a great boon in houses where a quick basin of soup is often called for. These condensed soups are made from the flour of the various vegetables, mixed with refined suet, and are of very superior quality, although moderate priced. In using them : Break up the paste very small into cold water, \ pint for each portion, and allow to boil for 15 minutes, stirring frequently ; add small cubes of toast, salt and pepper to taste. ‘ Cock-a-leekie ’ is an appetising soup, and can be'made without a fowl. It should be ‘ thick of leeks ’ cut in small pieces, the rank tail- ends being dispensed with, the leeks well cleaned, and the roots re- moved. Boil 3 or 4 pounds of leg of beef in as much water as may be necessary till the meat is in rags, a couple of big leeks being boiled with it. Strain off the liquor and place in it, cut up in small portions, half a dozen big leeks, which boil till ready. If you have a fowl, cut off the fleshy parts and cook them till done in the soup, having previously used the carcass in making the stock. The compound, seasoned to taste, ought to be ‘ thick and slab,’ therefore grudge not the leeks. Desiccated Soup.—For producing a quick basin of good soup, ‘ Edwards’ Desiccated Soup ’ is a thoroughly reliable preparation. It consists of beef and vegetables in a dried state. About an ounce, which costs Id., makes \ pint of soup. Mix it with water and boil for 15 minutes, flavour to taste, and add a few drops of Lea and Perrins’ sauce. This soup, which is largely used in the army and navy, re- ceived the highest awards at the International Health Exhibition. Fish. Soup.—Into 3 pints of the liquor in which fish has been boiled put the bones, fins, head, and trimmings of the dressed fish, and stew gently till reduced to 1 quart. Strain and put into the stewpan with an onion, or a leek, a little salt and cayenne, and 2 large potatoes. Boil till these are soft, then rub the soup through a hair sieve. Make it hot again, and add a few drops of Lazenby’s essence of anchovy.