81 VEGETABLES AND SALADS. Fried Potatoes.—Half boil the potatoes, cut them into slices, and fry in butter or goose dripping. When brown, drain, strew a little salt over, and serve while hot and crisp. Potatoes may be fried without being parboiled, or after they have been boiled and become cold. Potato Hash.—Put some cold chopped potatoes into a frying-pan with a little fat, stir them about for 5 minutes, then add an equal quantity of cold meat, cut into squares, season with pepper and salt, fry gently, stirring until hot through. Potatoes & la Maitre d’Hotel.—Cut some cold boiled potatoes into rather thick slices. Put a lump of fresh butter into a stewpan, and add a little flour—about a teaspoonful for a middling-sized dish. When the flour has boiled a little while in the butter, add by degrees a cupful of broth or water. Boil up, and put in the potatoes, with chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. Stew a few minutes, then take from the fire, and when quite off the boil add the yolk of an egg beat up with a little lemon-juice and a tablespoonful of cold water. Serve as soon as the sauce has set. Potato Omelette.—Take a mashed potato, 2 ounces of potato flour, and 4 eggs, make thick, season with pepper, salt, a little nutmeg, and fry to a light brown colour. Potato Pastry.—Put 2 ounces of Edwards’ Desiccated Soup into a basin, pour on it \ pint of boiling water, cover, and keep warm for 15 minutes ; add 2 ounces of breadcrumbs, mix well together, place it in a pie-dish, spread over it a thick layer of nicely-mashed potato. Bake in a moderate oven. Potato Puffs.—Take 2 cupfuls of cold mashed potatoes, and stir into them 2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter, and beat to a white cream before adding anything else; then add 2 eggs, beaten, a teacupful of cream or milk, and salt to taste. Beat all together in a deep dish, and bake in a quick oven until nicely browned. Summer Salads.—(1) Dissolve \ teaspoonful of white or brown sugar in a tablespoonful of vinegar, add 3 drops of tarragon vinegar, and cayenne and salt to taste. Break up a lettuce or endive wiped very dry, and add about ^ teaspoonful of chopped chives ; pour over the lettuce a tablespoonful of oil, and well mix it about with a wooden spoon and fork; then sprinkle the vinegar mixture over and turn all well about again. - Garnish with slices of cucumber cut thin, or raw tomatoes cut in quarters. (2) A fresh lettuce washed and wiped dry, chopped tarragon or mint, a few young onions or chives, and | cucum- ber. Put into a salad-bowl 2 tablespoonfuls of oil, a saltspoonful of salt, i teaspoonful of pepper, a dessertspoonful of sugar, and a dessertspoonful of vinegar. Then add the chopped mint or tarragon and the onions ; lastly, the lettuce broken up into small pieces, and stir all together, turning the lettuce over well. Garnish with slices of cucumber. (3) One raw egg well beaten up, a tablespoonful of oil, a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, and a dessertspoonful of vinegar. Mix well together ; break up a lettuce, pour the mixture over it, and turn it about thoroughly. (4) Two tablespoonfuls of salad oil; break 3 eggs, drop them into the oil, well beat them up, add a teaspoonful, of tarragon vinegar and a dessertspoonful of cream, mix and pour over the lettuce. This mixture will keep for several weeks if bottled and tightly corked up. (5) Cut up a cucumber into very thin slices, drain off all the water that comes from it by pressing the cut slices between 2 plates ; mix a tablespoon- 6