ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 36 to taste. Thoroughly blend and stir well together with 8 well-beaten eggs, 2 glasses of brandy, and \ pint of milk. Tie in a cloth, and boil from 8 to 10 hours. Those who want plum or ‘ Christmas ’ puddings in a hurry, or do not want the trouble of making them, may be glad to know that puddings of1 excellent quality and flavour are made and kept ready by Mr. Luck, the confectioner, of Tottenham Court Road. Dumpling's.—Mix with 1 pound of flour a little salt, and water to make a stiff paste. Divide and roll into dumplings the size of an apple ; put them into boiling water, and boil till done. These dumplings may be varied by mixing with each pound of flour | pound of finely-shred suet. A few currants and a little sugar in addition make another variety to be eaten alone. Dig Pudding.—Chop J pound of suet fine, and 1J pounds of figs ; add 2 ounces of flour, h pound of breadcrumbs, 6 ounces of sugar, a little nutmeg, and 2 eggs well beaten with sufficient milk to mix. Boil in a buttered basin for 4 hours. Fruit Puddings.—Butter a basin and line it with paste-crust, rolled out moderately thick ; put in the fruit, lay a piece of crust rolled out round the top, and turn the side crust over it a little way to keep in the juice ; tie over it a cloth well floured. A quart basin re- quires boiling 2 hours. Fruit Tarts.—Cut some puff-paste the size of the dish, and out of the trimmings cut some strips, which place round the edge of the dish, then put in the fruit, with some sugar and a little water ; roll the paste, and lay over the fruit. Brush some white of egg over the tart, and sift some sugar over it. Bake, and serve. German Open Tart.—Well grease a shallow baking-tin, line it with a light pie-crust; on this place a layer of thinly-sliced apple, fol- lowed by a layer of well-washed and picked currants ; sprinkle with sugar. Repeat the layers until the dish is full. Finish with pipe-paste and a rose or crown in centre. Hasty Pudding.—Stir 3 tablespoonfuls of cornflour into a little cold milk. Put 1 teaspoonful of salt into 1 quart of milk, bring it to boil, and pour it over the cornflour, when well mixed. Return to the saucepan, and boil, stirring frequently, for J hour ; then add 1 table- spoonful of butter. Serve at once, in a deep dish, with sugar or preserves. Jam Tarts. —Butter some patty-pans, and line with pastry rolled out to a i inch thick. Put them into a quick oven; when nearly baked take out, put a little jam in each, then return to the oven and finish. An ornament already baked should be placed upon each, or a little whipped cream. Time to bake, a few minutes. Jam Tart, Open.—Roll out some pastry to J inch thick ; butter a tart-pan, and line with the pastry ; trim the edges, and prick a few holes in the bottom. Bake in a moderate oven until lightly browned, then take out, let it cool a little, spread the jam on it, aud ornament the top with pastry which has been baked separately. Time to bake, about \ hour. Lard in Pastry.—The best quality of lard only should be used. Messrs. Bancroft and Co.’s, of Liverpool, is always of uniform con- sistency, and neither too hard nor too soft. It is of a fine silky texture, very different to the rough harsh quality, wonderfully suggestive of mutton fat, turned out by some makers. When put into the frying- pan it melts into oil without the sputtering so observable in inferior