57 MEATS : JOINTS, STEAKS, CHOPS, ENTREES, ETC. as possible ; season to taste, and add to the batter. Mix all well together, and pour into a pan of boiling lard or beef dripping. Fry the fritters on both sides a nice brown, and when done, drain off from the fat. Serve on a folded napkin. Beef, Ribs of (k la Marseillaise).—Brown a rib of beef over a quick fire, with 4 tablespoonfuls of good oil. Then draw the stewpan aside, and let it cook gently until tender. Fry some sliced onions in oil until they are brown ; add vinegar, mustard, and a little stock broth. Season with salt and pepper, and pour it over the rib of beef. Beef Rissoles.—Mince very finely some tender cooked lean beef and a small quantity of suet, mince an onion with some parsley ; add grated breadcrumbs, nutmeg, and lemon-peel. Season with pepper and salt, and, if desired, add a little thinly made mustard. Mix thoroughly. Moisten with beaten egg, roll into oval balls, flour and fry them in boiling beef dripping. Serve with or without gravy. Beef, Ribs of.—For roasting, see Sirloin. Beef, Sirloin of.—Hang a sufficient time to render tender, and before cooking dry and flour. Place near a good fire at first, that the heat may prevent the escape of the nourishing juices ; but this done— which it will be in about 10 minutes, more or less according to the heat —draw back and let the joint roast slowly until cooked, with frequent basting, upon which much depends, throughout the operation. As a rule about 20 minutes should be allowed for each pound of meat. Beef, Spiced, or Collared.—Take the thin end of a flank of beef. Lay it in a dish with salt and saltpetre : put it in a cool place, and turn and rub it every day for a week. Remove all bone and gristle, with the skin from the inside part, and spread over it the following season- ing : a large handful of parsley, chopped fine, the same of sage, some thyme, marjoram, and, if liked, a little garlic. Mix all well together, and flavour with pepper, salt, and allspice. When well spread over the meat, in rather a thick layer, roll the meat up tightly, wrap a cloth round it to keep it in proper shape, and bind it round with broad tape or string ; then put the beef on in a saucepan, with plenty of hot water, and let it boil gently 20 minutes for every pound. When done, take it out, place on a dish, and, while hot, put a heavy weight upon it, allowing the cloth to remain. It will when cold be of a good oval shape ; the cloth should then be removed, and the meat glazed on the outside, or it can be sent to table with a clean napkin neatly folded and pinned round, or a paper frill, and garnished with parsley. If spiced beef is bought ready made, the ‘ Sutherland ’ brand is one of the best. Beef, Stewed.—(1) Cut 2 pounds beef into small pieces and pub them in a pan, with pint of water, 2 or 3 onions, a large carrot cut up, and salt and pepper. Stew in the oven for an hour or so. Lay on the top some peeled potatoes, cover up and put back into the oven for 1 ^ hours, or till the potatoes are reduced to a mash. Beef, Stewed.—(2) Take 2 pounds of thick-cut steak. Brown on both sides in fat and cover with broth. Mince a small carrot, 2 shallots, a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, and 2 ounces bacon. Fry these for a minute in butter, add a glass of claret, and pour on the steak. Simmer gently for 2 hours. Strain, thicken the sauce with cornflour, and season. Pour over the steak, and serve. Cow Heel.—Cut the heel, after it has been thoroughly cleaned and