FOOD IN RELATIONSHIP WITH NUTRITION , AND DIGESTION. 29 variety of kinds to the preparation of a great diversity of tasty dishes. Broiled, fried, or boiled, with its many special sauces and its almost endless additions and variations, it affords the skilful cook a large field of exercise for her ingenuity and knowledge. It must, however, be remembered that the fat of fish is, as a rule, indigestible, and, like that of veal, readily decomposes, for whicli reason sauces of an acid tendency are sometimes recommended for use with fish instead of the old- fashioned melted butter, which has a tendency—especially if ill-made— to render fish indigestible. Spice and salt help to render the coarser kinds of fish-food more wholesome. Dried fish is very digestible when dried in the open air, much less so when salted and smoked, in which condition it affords but little nutriment. Speaking generally, fish de- velops but little heat in the process of digestion ; it nourishes without exciting, and, unlike highly fibrinous aliment, stimulates no function. An exception to this rule, however, must be made where an abundance of oily matter is present. Fish contains fibrin, gelatine, and albumen in nearly equal proportions, but is not sufficiently rich in nitrogen to become a full substitute for meal. The fibrin in fish is most stimu- lating and nourishing, and being easily converted into muscular tissue leaves scarcely any residuum in the digestive tubes. Gelatine, on the other hand, is about the least nutritious of the organic elements of food, and produces much fcecal matter. The third constituent, albumen, is nitrogenous and nourishing. Bread and Farinaceous Foods. Amongst the various corn-plants used for food, wheat claims pre- eminence in all its varieties. ‘ Our daily bread ’ is composed of a larger proportion of the nitrogen (1 to meet the wear and tear of the body’) and carbon (furnishing heat and power), and a smaller pro- portion of water and ashes, than will be found in any other corn-plant. The proportion of the nitrogenous to the carbonaceous elements is as 1 to 4, which, according to Liebig, is for human food about the right proportion. But to secure its full value such food 1 ought to contain all the constituents of the wheat, instead of being made of flour from which most of the mineral elements have been taken. The removal of the darker and rougher portions which belong to the external part of the grain deprives wheaten flour of some of its most nutritious con- stituents. Fineness and whiteness is attained at a certain sacrifice of nourishing quality, and such flour, although equally good for those whose means enable them to obtain other nutriment abundantly, is not desirable for the labourer, in whose dietary bread forms so large a part.’ The materials which supply the nutritious and heat-giving elements to corn are fibrine, albumen, caseine, gluten, starch, sugar, gum, oil,