41 SOUPS AND SAUCES. Put it into the soup-tureen, and mix in a cupful of boiling milk. Sprinkle a tablespoonful of finely-chopped parsley upon the soup and serve. Fish-Extract Soups.—A variety of soups, excellent as food, cheap, and agreeable, may be made with the Normal Company’s fish- extracts. The process of manufacturing these does for fish exactly what Liebig’s process does for meat, separates the fatty and albu- minous elements, and consequently gives us nourishing and stimulating food in a greatly condensed or strengthening condition. They will keep a long time, have the flavour of fish or are without it, and are used just as the meat extracts, and form an excellent basis for soup. Giblet Soup.—Clean and parboil 2 sets of giblets. Remove the skins from the birds’ feet, cut the gizzards into quarters, and the necks into 3 bits ; add the wings, heads, and livers cut in 2, removing the beaks, and boil in weak stock with an onion. Then take the giblets, previously boiled, and add them with their broth to highly-seasoned brown gravy stock, well seasoned, together with a little chopped parsley. Remove the onion and thicken with flour into which a piece of butter has been kneaded. Gravy Soup.—Take 2 to 3 pounds of bones, break up into small pieces* and put into a saucepan with 3 quarts of cold water. Bring to a boil, skim carefully, and simmer gently but continuously for 6 hours. Strain through a sieve, and leave the soup to cool. Remove the fat, and leave any sediment there may be at the bottom. Then pour the soup gently into a clean saucepan, adding 2 carrots, 1 turnip, 3 onions —all sliced—a head of celery, or \ drachm of pounded celery-seed, tied in muslin, a bundle of sweet herbs, and 8 peppercorns. Bring again to a boil, skim carefully, and add a dessertspoonful of salt, which will assist the scum to rise. Draw to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for 2 hours. Strain 2 or 3 times, and, to clear, stir in when hot the whites of 2 eggs, whisked thoroughly, and mixed with 4 teaspoonfuls of cold water, and afterwards with a little of the soup. Beat this into the soup over the fire, and keep whisking till it boils. Skim carefully till it is quite clear. Add 3 tablespoonfuls of Liebig’s extract. Green Pea Soup.—Put a quart of fully-grown green peas into a saucepan with 3 pints of boiling water (or stock), and a little mint, leave the pan uncovered, and boil quickly till the peas are tender. Remove the scum a3 it rises, press the whole through a coarse sieve, and let it boil up once more. Add a lump of sugar, and salt and pepper. Serve as hot as possible. Fresh. Haddock Soup.—Pick all the flesh from the bones of a large and very fresh haddock. Put the bones, head, etc., into 2 quarts of stock, with an onion, a carrot, and a blade of mace, and let them simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour or more. Pound the meat in a mortar, and with it the crumb of a French roll, which has been soaked in milk and drained, a pint of picked shrimps, and a table- spoonful of finely-minced parsley. Strain the gravy, mix it gradually with the fish, etc., and boil all together for half an hour. Season with salt and pepper, pass the soup through a coarse sieve, thicken it with a little flour and butter, let it warm up once more, and serve. Probable cost, lOd. per quart. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Herb Soup.—Put a piece of butter in a saucepan with sorrel,