110 ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. is required, J pint of port, sherry, Madeira, and a gill of brandy may be stirred in with advantage. When isinglass is added, this beef-tea sets into a firm and wonderfully nutritious jelly. Blanc Mange for Invalids.—Dissolve in 1 quart of warm milk 1 ounce of isinglass, strain it through double muslin, put into a stewpan with £ pound of sugar pounded, and a peel of a lemon cut thin. Let it warm gently, until the flavour is well extracted from the lemon, and then stir in very gradually the yolk3 of six eggs; return to the stewpan, and set it at the side of the fire until it thickens, stirring all the time ; pour into a jug, and stir until nearly cold ; then pour it into a mould dipped into cold water, or oiled, and set in a cold place until cold and firm. ‘ Farola,’ a very fine preparation of wheat, may be used instead of isinglass—3 ounces to 1 quart of milk. Chicken Broth.—Take an old fowl, stew to pieces in 1 quart of cold water, with 2 onions, pepper and salt to taste; skim well and strain. Cup Custard.—Stir 1 dessertspoonful of white pounded sugar into | breakfast-cupful of new milk; add 1 egg well beaten ; pour into a breakfast-cup, and bake till quite set—about \ hour. Turn out on a plate and serve alone, or with stewed fruit. Egyptian Eood.—Lentils have no better form than that now so well known under this name ; it is rich in nourishing properties, and commonly recommended by medical men, as especially suited to in- valids and those whose digestion is impaired. Mix 2 spoonfuls with a little milk or water into a thin paste, and add the paste to a pint of new milk or water; when nearly boiling, add salt and sweeten to taste. It forms a nourishing food for infants, but if under the age of 6, it must be kept in a thin and perfectly liquid condition. It is one of the Messrs. Symington’s now generally adopted preparations. Gruel of Patent Groats.—Mix a tablespoonful of patent groats smoothly with 2 tablespoonfuls of cold water. Pour in 1 pint of boil- ing water, and stir for 10 minutes, or more, over the fire. Sweeten and season, if desired. A small lump of butter may be boiled with the gruel. Isinglass.—One ounce of isinglass, pour a pint of boiling water upon it ; when cold and stiff, add as much as you like to your tea, coffee, or broth. Meat Jelly.—Take 1 pound knuckle of veal, 1 pound of gravy beef, and a calf’s foot; cut the meat from the bones, and chop into pieces ; lay them in the bottom of a stewpan, and put the meat on the top ; add cold water to rather more than cover; simmer gently for 4 hours, and skim off the scum as it rises. Strain through a fine hair sieve, put aside to cool, and take off all fat. Strengthening Jelly.—Put 1 ounce each of sago, ground rice, pearl barley, eryngo-l-oot, and Nelson’s gelatine—previously soaked in cold water—into a saucepan, with 2 quarts of water ; boil gently till reduced one-half. Strain and set aside till wanted. A few spoonfuls of this jelly may be dissolved in broth, tea, or milk. It is nourishing and easily digested. Invalid Pudding.—Mix well together 2 tablespoonfuls of bread- crumbs, 1 egg, nearly 4 pint of milk, a little sugar, flavouring, if liked ; pour into a buttered cup or mould, and boil i hour. This is also a nice pudding for a child.