65 ALMOND PUDDING (Jewish). I Ib. ground almonds. | i lb. castor sugar. 16 eggs. Beat up the eggs for lo minutes, and add the almonds and sugar gradually and beat altogether for i hour. This should have the appearance of thick double cream. Oil 4 dishes, pour the mixture in, and bake for an hour. When they are well baked, they will give from the sides. Do not turn them out till cold. Flora Simmonds. AMERICAN PIES. Pie Crust-—2^ cupfuls flour, ^ level teaspoonful baking powder, i teaspoonful salt, ^ cupful lard. Sift together thoroughly the flour, baking powder and salt. Cut in the lard with a knife. Moisten to a dough with ice water. Roll on a floured board. Another Pie Crust.—J lb. butter, 3 cupfuls flour, I teaspoonful of salt, small teaspoonful baking powder, sufficient ice water to moisten and roll. The secret of making good pastry is to touch it as little as possible with the hand. To make the pies nicer, one quarter of the shortening may be left out, and the pastry for the upper crust can be rolled flat, dotted with butter and lard ; sprinkle with flour, fold together and roll again, repeating this operation until the shortening left out is used. This will make a flaky upper crust, f a cup of shortening can be used with the baking powder. Some prefer lard to butter as making a whiter crust. Roll out the crust to fit the pie-plate. Press it neatly in shape, and then cut off the edges evenly. Take some more of the paste and the fragments left from trimming off the under cru.st, and roll out for the upper crust. Fold this together, and cut 3 or 4 ^-inch slits about -|-inch from the middle. This permits the escape of steam without injuring the shape of the pie. Now fill the pie-plate with the prepared filling. Wet the top edge of the rim. Lay the upper crust across the centre of the pie, turn back the folded-over side, fa.sten the two edges by pressing with the thumb, and cut off the paste even with the tin. Run a pastry wheel around the edge, or simply notch with a fork.