56 VEGETABLE PIE. {B_y kind permission of Liebig's Exlract of Meat Company). 2 lbs. of potatoes. 4 lb. of mushrooms. I onion. f lb. of puff pastry. .Salt and pepper. J pint of water. ^ teaspoonful of Liebig Company’s Extract of Meat Cut up the potatoes. Put a layer in a pie-dish, sprinkle over a little seasoning, then a layer of onion (sliced), then mushrooms peeled, and more seasoning, continuing this until the dish is heaped full. Dissolve the Liebig Company’s Extract of Meat in water, and add 2 table- spoonfuls of it to the pie. Roll out the pastry and cover the dish, make 3 holes to ventilate the pie, bake ih hours in a moderate oven. Add the remainder of gravy, and serve. TO BOIL POTATOES. Potatoes cooked in their “ coats ” contain more nourish- ment and flavour than when done without them, therefore it is best to do them in this way when possible. During a greater part of the year we boil them without their skins, and the following way I have found good. They ought, of course, to be well-washed in cold water before removing the skins, which should be taken off as thinly as possible, after which, wash again. Prepare them just before cooking. Have a pan of boiling salted water, just enough to cover the potatoes, and put them in whole. Let them boil hard for I or 2 minutes, then draw to side and let boil gently until the thin skin—made by the boiling water—bursts. Pour off most of the water, leaving enough to steam the potatoes right through. The lid must be close-fitting, and care must be taken that the heat is not strong. When cooked, which can be ascertained by piercing them gently with any sharp article (they should not be broken), pour off any water that may remain, and dry carefully, shaking the pan very gently once or twice, having the lid off. A nice clean dish-towel folded and placed inside the pot on top of potatoes absorbs the moisture. When potatoes are old, they are sometimes injurious. This may be obviated by putting them on in cold water, bring to the boil, pour water off and pour other water on, then cook. JVbPe.—When potatoes are boiled too hard or in too much water, they get broken, and much of what is good in them is lost. J. L.VMiiiE, Edinburgh.