74 the corn-flour with some milk and stir in, stirring carefully to prevent lumps, then add the sugar and a small piece butter, and stir all firmly till smooth and well cooked; then pour into a mould and stand till cold, and then turn out. Miss Helen Rankine, Edinburgh. CHOCOLATE PUDDING. ^ lb. chocolate. 3 oz. sugar. ^ lb. finger bi.scuits. 4 pint of milk. 3 eggs. I teaspoonful essence of vanilla. 6(1. worth double cream. Grate the chocolate, place it in a saucepan, pour over the milk, and stir all well together until smooth. Crumble the biscuits and add them. Place the saucepan over the fire and stir all till boiling. Allow it to boil for 5 minutes. Take saucepan from the fire and let the contents cool, drop in one by one the yolks of eggs, add the sugar, beat well together. Place the whites of eggs on a plate and with a knife whip them to a stiff froth. Mix them lightly with the other ingredients. Grease thoroughly a mould, pour in the mixture. Cover the mould with a sheet of paper, place in saucepan half full of boiling water and boil for hours. Turn out on hot dish and pour round quickly a little whipped cream. Mrs Grieve, Coillesdene, Portobello. CHRISTMAS PUDDING IN RHYME. {By Mrs John Stevc72son, ChapelhalL) If you wish to make the pudding in which everyone delights. Of six pretty new laid eggs you must take the yolks and whites, Peat them well up in a basin till they thoroughly combine. And be sure you chop the suet up particularly fine. Take a pound of well-stoned raisins and a pound of currants dried, A pound of pounded sugar and some candied peel beside, Rub them all well up together in a pound of wheaten flour. And let them stand to settle for a quarter of an hour. Then tie the mixture in a cloth and put it in a pot. Some people like the water cold and some prefer it hot, But though I don’t know which of these two plans I ought to praise, I know it ought to boil an hour for every pound it weighs. Oh ! were I the Queen of France or, far better. Pope of Rome, I would have a Christmas pudding every day I dined at home. All the world should have a piece and if any did remain. Next morning to my breakfast I would have it fried again.