177 Yule Sowens.—On Auld Yule Eve, that is the night of the 4th of January, in the north-east of Scotland, the mystic hour of that sacred night was wont to be celebrated with a bowl of sowens. Each of the assembled household and guests, from the number of bowls filled with sowens, chose the one they thought might contain one of the prizes, for secretly before this the guidwife had placed the ring, the threepenny, the button, and the thimble; and amongst the young folks the conveted prize was, of course, the ring, and happy was the maid or youth who got the ring; it meant their marriage before another Yule. Thin sowens at Yule meant a poor crop next year. It was therefore important that due care should be had in the cooking least a careless hand should bode ill for the year that was beginning. How to make Sowens.—Sowens became famous at the siege of Mafeking, for amongst the besieged there wai a certain Aberdonian who remembered the dish of his youth and how to prepare it. He found in some of the mills a quantity of the siftings from the meal that had been thrown aside in the days of plenty, and of this he made sowens, and so greatly helped to pass through the days of famine. Sowens is made from the husks sifted from oatmeal after it is ground. These husks with the fine particles of meal still adhering are called meal-seeds. The way to prepare the sfnvens is to steep these in water in a large jar or barrel till they become sour. By this time the particles of meal have dissolved. The whole is then stirred well together and the husks are then separated from the fluid by a fine sieve. This milky fluid which remains is the sowens. It is allowed to settle, the sowens forming a fine paste at the bottom and the sf)ur water rising to the top. 'I'he sour water is then [Kjured off and clean water added. By pouring off the water occasi(»nally and adding fresh water the store of sowens will keep for a long time and be ready for cooking at any time, d'he same result, of course, can be attained at any time without meal-seeds by sinqily steeping fine oatmeal for a few days anfl carrying it through the same ])rocess. But the old time way with the meal seeds was, of course, more economical in the (lays of scarcity, and it used to be the only recognised meth(Kl of making sowens. M