179 They were baked on a well-greased girdle hung over the peat fire; and at the farms on Pastern’s Een the night was given up to bannock baking. All the hands as they sat around the kitchen fire and told their stories and cracked their jokes, had each their turn at the baking. But the great entertainment of the evening was the baking of the big bannock. When the material was about finished up more meal was added to the remainder, just enough being left to fill the girdle with one big thick bannock. But before being poured out the ring and other emblems were stirred into it. Then one was chosen to do the baking, and that one had to do it in absolute silence. Of course, it was the policy of everyone else to try and break the spell of silence. This was done by all sorts of questions and talk, but more often by trj'ing to steal the prize over which the silent baker was constituted guardian angel. We have heard of girdle and all disappearing up one of those wide old-fashioned chimneys by the clever device of one youth who went upon the roof at the right time and fished it up with a hooked wire. If it were successfully baked, however, it was cut into portions equal to the number of the company and handed round to see who would get the ring. Meal-and-Ale.—Meal-and-ale was a harvest festival dish. It was not the feast of the ingathering but when the reaping was finished. The fiirmer was said to have got cliack when the reapers had cut the last sheaf, and that night when they came home to rest from their labours he made them a feast of meal-anrl-ale. It was simply some oatmeal stirred into a basin of ale or harvest beer. It was usually sweetened with sugar and a glass or two of whisky was added. The inevitable ring and other emblems of future destiny were put in and all the harvesters stood round the one dish, each with his spoon. They ate quietly for a little, but soon there ensued a .scramble for the ring—more especially if some one dipping deeper than the rest chanced to bring the trea.sure in sight. Rev. (1. Jack, M.A., Minister of St Muntio’s.