181 Jean Lambie, Edinburgh. TO MAKE PORRIDGE. 1 lablespoonful of oatmeal. J teaspoonful of salt. A little cold water. About I breakfastcupful of boiling water according to consistency desired. Try this way:—Put oatmeal into a pan, moisten and rub till smooth with cold water, then stir in the boiling water, and stir till it boils. Put on the lid and boil gently for 30 to 40 minutes. Stir occasionally, adding the salt 10 minutes before dishing. It has been advised to those with weak digestions to have the meal mixed altogether with cold water and stirred till boiling. J. L.vmbie, Edinburgh. Note.—Some like a very little semolina added. Porridge made with pease-meal in the above way is very good, and is a change from the oatmeal. Fill the kettle with freshly-drawn water. Never use water which has been in the kettle for some time. Put the kettle on to boil. Meanwhile prepare the teapots—two, make both very hot and one dry. Into the dry one put 1 teaspoonful of dry tea for every 3 teacupfuls of licpiid required. Shake the teapot high over the fire for a moment or two; this improves the flavour. Immediately the water boils pour it over the tea, put on the lid, and set pot in an equally warm place for 3 to 5 minutes for ordinary teas. When infused stir up with a spoon and strain at once into the other pot. This tea now doesn’t harm by standing a time, at least it shouldn’t if the tea used is good. The above method seems much more trouble than the customary one, but it is certainly worth it. Water, which is not boiling, should not be used for lea. When the tea is finished infuse more. The tea (leaves) should not have water poured on it a second time. This is no more expensive than putting in “ i teaspoonful for each person and i for the teapot.” The better the tea the longer it can be infused. Tea should never boil. If it does, a little cold water put in removes the boiled taste, at least partially, but it doesn’t undo the harm. In colour it should be of a dark amber, trans[)arent, not dull or leaden colour. TO MAKE TEA.