f50 YEARS' REPUTATIO KeenS~ As ROI K ROBIB Tl FAROI (Blascjow lpresentet) ARLEY )D. nilk it forms liable variety •xl Journal., "An ideal form of giving farinaceous food with milk."- .-i Loudon Physician. " Marlborough House, Pall Mall, S.W.-Golonel Clarke, Private Secretary to the Princess'of Wales,, writes to inform Mr. James Marshall that FAROLA has been ordered for use in the Household." Awarded Gold Medals at the two important International Exhibitions held in 1886— Edinburgh and Liverpool—Mo.years before any imitations were in the market. FAROLA is a highlv refined preparation of Wheat, which conserves.all the nutritive elements and f^avo^ na^^betonfeinlto^fhe puresLpart of the grain. All irritating and indigestible master has been removed bv cafeful treatment, nfechanical means only being employed ~~ pll- satisfy a robust appetite, but it iff specially suited for invalids and children Medicine CS 108 1900-K Send Post Card for Descriptive Book with Recipes (post free). \RSH ALL, 25, East Cumberland Street, GLASGOW.Brown i Poison's wwSrSn^Qp^i Flour Can be used in all cases where butter and flour thickening for sauces is recom- mended, and as it requires no butter is to be preferred on account of its plainness. LOVELOCK'S IMPROVED KNIFE-CLEANING MACHINES, MINCINC AND SAUSAGE-MAKING MACHINES, & COFFEE MILLS FOR DOMESTIC USE. They are unrivalled for simplicity and efficiency, and for promoting domestic economy ^trof the W m, r'p" hreh°ld- bC °^ed °f Ironmong-s and Dealers in all parts of the World. Purchasers are cautioned against imitations. J. F. LOVELOCK, Broadway Works, 201, MARE ST., HACKNEY, LONDON. ESTABLISHED 1856.FIFTY LUNCHES BY A. KENNEY-HERBERT (" Wyvcrn ") "CORDON ROUGE," AUTHOR OF "FIFTY BREAKFASTS," "FIFTY DINNERS," "COMMON-SENSE COOKERY," ETC. EDWARD ARNOLD Sforaium fork 37, BEDFORD STREET. 70, FIFTH AVENUE (All rights reserved)GLASGOW UNIVERSITY LIBRARYINTRODUCTION. I have endeavoured to give in this little handbook recipes for a variety of dishes, including rechauffes of fish, flesh, and fowl, which have not appeared in either of its predecessors, "Fifty Breakfasts," and " Fifty Dinners." These I hope will be found prac- ticable, useful, and satisfactory. I have not attempted to describe pieces montees for the sideboard—galan- tines, pressed and spiced beef, brawns, raised pies, &c, &c, methods for the preparation of which have been recorded in my larger work, "Common-sense Cookery." Seeing, indeed, that the space available for " Fifty Lunches" was limited, I thought it better to confine myself to the discussion of smaller and more delicate things. It will be found that I have attempted to invite attention to dishes made with eggs and entremets de legumes for the luncheon table, for I think that the excellent opportunities offered by these articles of food are still lost sight of by the English menagere, while we are all too much addicted, by force of habit, to the consumption ofINTRODUCTION. iv meat. And since this has been a distinct feature-of " Fifty Lunches," I have not submitted, as in the companion books, menus for abstinence days. Soups were so fully described in " Fifty Dinners" that I have not included them in the suggestions now pre- sented, and as in the case of that little treatise I have left to the taste and judgment of my various readers the alternative of adding a joint of meat or cold piece to their bill of fare if necessary. Out-of-door luncheons at cricket matches, picnics, boating parties, and race meetings are specialites in their way which I have not touched upon, neither have I said anything about the contents of the sports- man's basket. The subject may perhaps form an excuse for another little book. But givers of luncheon parties within doors ought to find, I think, some little assistance in " Fifty Lunches." Just one word of advice. Let the menu for such gatherings be as short as possible. Nothing in the way of entertain- ment is less enjoyable than an over-wrought midday meal, dragging its slow length along till the afternoon is almost spent. If the day happen to be warm, and the room at all full, the discussion of a series of good things becomes exceedingly trying to many people, a reunion which should be as light in its effect as possible waxes dull and heavy, and thus the most hospitable intentions are not appreciated. A. K.-H.MENU I. (January.') Cdtelettes de lievre a la Gogue\ P^toncles a la Cingalese. Tapioca a la creme fouettee. Colombines de jambon. i. Lay a hare upon a board, cut it in two behind the shoulders, and remove the hind legs and thighs. Set aside all the portions thus removed for civet, soup, or jugged hare. All you Hare cutlets want for the cutlets is the saddle. First h la Gogue'. remove the two back fillets from this, and the under fillets. Out of these trim as neatly as you can as many cutlets as the meat will yield half an inch thick, two and a half long, and one and three- quarters across in the broadest part. Some cooks complete the cutlet-like appearance by slipping into each of them a piece of bone, which may be taken from the ribs. Next, lard the meat through—i.e., draw the strips of bacon through, not in and out as in ordinary larding, and snip off the ends short with scissors, giving the meat the appearance of being studded with little nails of bacon. When shaped and nicely prepared, lay the cutlets on a dish for the present while you proceed to make a broth with the trimmings and backbones left after the preparation. Chop these up small, and put them into a stewpan with an ounceFIFTY LUNCHES. 1 of butter, two ounces of lean of uncooked bacon, two of onions, two of carrot, and half one of celery, all minced small ; season with pepper and salt and a large teaspoonful of mixed dried herbs. Fry over a low lire till beginning to brown, then moisten with a claret-glassful of chablis. Keep over a low lire until the wine is nearly exhausted, at which time moisten with three gills of warm broth, boil up, simmer for an hour, and strain. An hour before they are wanted dry the cutlets upon a floured cloth, clip them in beaten egg, and roll them in finely sifted, well- pounded white crumbs that have been previously dried in the oven. Let the breading dry thoroughly before you repeat the process, and let that dry also before proceeding to fry the cutlets in boiling clarified suet. When of a rich golden colour they should be drained, dried, and dished. The sauce—to be served in a sauce-boat—should be made as follows :—Skim the surface of the broth which you strained from the bones, &c, Sauce h la make a roux in a clean stewpan over a G°gud' low fire with half an ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour ; stir in the broth by degrees ; bring to the boil, skim, and pass through a hair sieve. Finish with a tablespoonful of finely minced cooked ham, and half one of orange-peel very finely pared, free from pith, and chopped small. 2 Nine scallops will do for this dish. First make a pint of fish broth as explained for the whiting creams (Menu U.), using milk or milk and water for the3 CEYLON CURRY OF SCALLOPS. moistening. Have this ready in a bowl. Now put into an earthenware casserole or stewpan an ounce and a half of butter ; melt this over a low fire, and add four ounces of finely ^lallop^ minced onion. Fry gently till the onion is soft, but not coloured ; and then put in—previously mixed to a paste with milk in a soup plate while the onions were being cooked—one tablespoonful of creme de riz, one teaspoonful of turmeric powder, half a tea- spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and a saltspoonful of salt. Fry this with the butter and onions for five minutes; then moisten with the broth, add a table- spoonful of ground sweet almonds with two of desic- cated cocoanut, and a tablespoonful of pounded green ginger (procurable at all Stores, and the herbalists at Covent Garden). Bring to the boil, and simmer for half an hour. Now empty the contents of the stewpan upon a large hair sieve, pass the liquid through it, catching up all the pieces of ginger, &c, and return it to the casserole; bring nearly to the boil, then slip in the scallops, reduce the heat to simmering, and in twenty minutes the hsh will be tender. Take the pan from the fire, stir in the juice of half a lemon and a tablespoonful of cream. If done in a French earthenware casserole the curry had better be served in it, with a napkin or frilled paper pinned round it, a dish of well-boiled rice accompanying. Boiling Rice.—Always choose a large vessel for this work : two gallons of water should be allowed for six ounces of rice, a dessert-spoonful of salt and4 FIFTY LUNCHES. the juice of a lemon should be put into it. Do not wet the rice by washing beforehand ; the best Patna is thoroughly refined and requires no washing. When the liquid boils freely throw in the dry rice ; maintain the high temperature, stirring now and then with a wooden spoon. Watch the clock, and after ten minutes' boiling begin to test the grains by taking a few out with the spoon and pinching them between the linger and thumb. In twelve or fourteen minutes they ought to be quite tender without pulpiness, the exact time depending upon the size of the grains. When this stage has been reached boiling should be immediately stopped by the throwing in of half a pint or so of cold water. Lift the pan from the fire, empty its contents on a wire sieve, drain off all the water, returning the cooked rice to the hot dry vessel in which it was boiled. Put in a quarter of an ounce of butter to detach grains that may stick to the side of the pan, and work the rice about with a two-pronged steel fork. Shake well, cover with a hot folded napkin (not the lid), and set the pan in front of the fire, or on the most moderate part of the hot-plate upon a " safe-boiling stove mat," giving it a shake every now and then. This drying process should take from eight to ten minutes. Stir about again with the steel fork to loosen the grains, and serve. By following this method failure is impos- sible. 3. Two tablespoonfuls of the best tapioca should be taken for this, and if uneven in size the large lumps should be lightly pounded in a mortar to get themCOLOMBINES OF HAM. 5 uniform—the size of a small pea. Soften the tapioca by soaking it for a short time in cold water, strain it off, and put it into a stewpan in a pint of cold milk ; set it over a low fire, warm up Tapiocawith and simmer gently, stirring every now and cream. then to keep it smooth ; sweeten with a tablespoonful of sifted sugar, and when it is soft draw the pan from the fire and cool it. As this is proceeding beat up four fresh eggs, and stir them by degrees into the cooled tapioca and milk ; set the pan over another containing boiling water, and turn the liquid to a custard. As soon as this is satisfactory flavour it with such flavouring as may be liked — almond, lemon, orange, vanilla, or ratafia—and empty it into a bowl. When cold, stir the custard well, blending finally with it a gill of separately whipped cream ; empty all into a glass dish, scatter the surface over with crushed ratafias or powdered praline, and serve. If preferred, the tapioca custard after being cooled may be dished, and the whipped cream laid lightly on the surface of it. To whip well remember that cream must be very cold. It is clear that a compote of any fruit might be handed round with this dish. 4. These are little moulds of ham puree masked with chand-froid sauce, and prettily dished in a circle, with broken jelly garnish. For the ham puree weigh four ounces of lean cooked ham and one of fat; mince small, pound %am' well, and pass through a hair sieve; season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of mace, stir in two raw yolks, and half an ounce of cooked mushroom cut6 FIFTY LUNCHES. into small squares ; put the mixture into buttered bouchcc-moulds, and steam in the manner described for the crimes in No i, Menu ii. Let them get cold in the moulds, and then turn them out upon a joint dish. During the operation make the chaud- froid masking as follows :—Put two gills of milk on the fire with the well-washed trimmings, stalks, &c, of two ounces of mushrooms, season with salt and pepper, and bring slowly to the boil; then stir in a quarter of an ounce of soaked gelatine, and simmer, stirring well till the gelatine is dissolved, then strain through a hair sieve, and mix with it the yolk of a fresh egg. This will tint the liquid a pale buff. Set it in a cool place, and, as the mixture begins to thicken, take up each of the little moulds of ham with a skewer, and dip it into it; this will coat them evenly. Dish as described.MENU II. (fa unary.') Petits crimes & la Dieppoise. Cdtelettes de veau a la Bordelaise. Pouding a la Turque. Bouch^es a la Dauphine. r. These can be made of any white fish. I will take a sixpenny whiting. Order it to be sent home as it is. Take the flesh from each side in T .1±1 , , Little fish two fillets, and put them aside separately, creams with Chop up the head, bones, and skin, put shrimp SCVHCC them into a stewpan, moisten with half a pint each of cold milk and water ; season with salt and pepper, bring slowly to the boil over a low fire, then add two ounces of minced onion, half one of celery, a sprig of parsley, and a teaspoonful of dried herbs. Simmer forty-five minutes and strain. Put the strained broth into a sm/fe'-pan with an upright rim, boil, put in the fillets, reduce to simmering, and as soon as soft take them out, put them into a mortar, and pound them to a paste ; weigh, and for six ounces of whiting allow two ounces of butter or fat of cooked ham, and two ounces of bread panada; mix, and pass all through a wire sieve. Now add to the puree thus obtained two whole eggs and the yolk only of another. Beat well together, season, add a tablespoonful of cream, put the mixtureFIFTY LUNCHES. s into buttered dariolcs, tap each smartly on a folded cloth laid on the table to cause the filling to be even, and poach very gently about thirty-five minutes. The steaming should be done in this way :—Choose a roomy stewpan, lay a sheet of paper folded in four at the bottom of it, pour in hot water about an inch deep, set on the fire, and when nearly boiling slip in the dariolcs; let boiling begin, but at once reduce to gentle simmering, keeping the pan covered. While this is proceeding, turn the broth in which the fillets were cooked to a sauce, thickening with half an ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour. Bring to the boil, pass through a hair sieve, add three pennyworth of picked shrimps finely minced and a tablespoonful of cream. When the creams are ready turn them out of the moulds, dish in a circle on a hot dish, and mask with the sauce. A pile of cooked fillets of cucumber may be arranged in the centre. This dish may be made of previously cooked fish, but in that case it would be advisable to get a few fish-cuttings to make a broth for the sauce. The creams can also be served cold, masked with the sauce, reduced to such a consistency as to coat them, cucumber or other salading in the centre, dressed with mayonnaise sauce. To get a smooth masking omit the shrimps in making the sauce, and use them in the salad. 2. Choose six veal cutlets, trim them neatly, and lard them in the ordinary manner. Set them aside while you prepare a saute- or fricandeau- Vcal cutlets pan wjth a cover, to receive them in this manners-Butter its surface with an ounce and a half of butter, lay over that9 ENDIVE PUREE. three ounces each of finely minced onion, carrot, and turnip, and the peelings and stalks (chopped small) of a quarter of a pound of mushrooms ; season with pepper, salt, and powdered herbs ; fry for five minutes, then add an ounce of meat glaze ; melt this and lay the cutlets on the surface of the vegetables, larded side uppermost. Moisten now with hot broth in sufficient quantity to come level with the surfaces of the cutlets, cover them with a buttered paper, cover the pan, and simmer gently for about an hour and a quarter ; when quite tender take the pan from the fire, remove the cutlets, strain off the broth into a bowl, wipe out the pan, brush off any pieces of vegetable that may adhere to the cutlets, and lay them in the pan again. Have ready melted an ounce of glaze, dilute this with half a gill of the strained broth, push the pan into the oven, and glaze the cutlets by basting them with the melted glaze. When heated through and nicely glazed, arrange the cutlets in a line on a small hot joint dish (silver if possible) garnished with endive puree, and send this sauce round in a boat. Having slammed off all fat from the broth, take two gills of it, add one gill of good thick tomato puree, boil up, add a teaspoonful of cornflour diluted with broth, skim, strain, and serve. Remove the outside leaves from two heads of endive of a good size, wash them well, cut each in four, and plunge the pieces into fast-boiling salted water ; boil for twenty or twenty- ^nd!ve five minutes, drain, " refresh " them with■^■■■HMIIlHMiiWlM^^BI 10 FIFTY LUNCHES. a douche of cold water, and, after pressing all mois- ture from them, turn them out on a board and chop them up as small as possible. Melt two ounces of butter in a stewpan, put in the chopped endives, dust over with salt and a pinch of powdered mace, and stir without stopping over a moderate fire until the vegetable has absorbed the butter ; next moisten with half a gill of cream, good white sauce, or milk, stir till well mixed and of a fairly thick consistency, and arrange the puree round the cutlets. 3. Make a pint of coffee custard in this way :— Roast four ounces of coffee-berries by moving Q0jxge them about over a low fire in a saute- custard pan, lubricated with half an ounce of pudding a butter. Boil three-quarters of a pint a ui que. q£ milk, take it off the fire, empty the newly roasted berries into it, and let them thus soak, covered up, in a warm place for about an hour. Strain, and turn the milk to a custard with four eggs, sweetening with an ounce of sugar. Strain this when made. Choose a pint border mould with a hollow rim, butter it well, line it with crushed ratafias, pour in the custard, and steam gently (process given in No. 1) till firm. Let it get cold in the mould, then turn it out, glaze it with diluted apricot jam, fill the hollow rim with preserved cherries, and send apricot sauce in a boat separately:—Put three tablespoonfuls of the jam in a gill of water, with a liqueur-glass of rum ; boil, pass through a strainer, and let it get cold. 4. Choose a dozen bouchee-moulds, line them withCOFFEE CUSTARD PUDDING A LA TURQUE. n melted aspic jelly about an eighth of an inch thick, keep them on ice, fill them with anchovy cream, and when set turn them out; dish in a circle, and garnish with hard-boiled eggs and cress. For the anchovy cream take four hard-boiled yolks of egg, twelve fillets of anchovy, and two tablespoonfuls of mayon- naise sauce ; pound, and pass all through a hair sieve, add a gill of diluted aspic, and fill the hollows of the lined bonchce-moulds. Let this set.MENU III. 12 (January.) CEufs brouill^s aux queues de crevettes. Cdtelettes de mouton en chevreuiL Compote de marrons au kirsch. Olives farcies a la Royale. i. Half a pint of shrimps nicely picked will be enough for this. The buttered eggs require great care, being but rarely properly done by Buttered English cooks. The preparation must be cg&s with shrimps. creamy, not over-cooked in solid lumps as it so often is. The quantity of butter should be accurately weighed ; it should be of the best quality, and put in as by and by directed. Then, be it observed, the dish must not be kept waiting ; it should be served as quickly as a souffle. If cooked over a fast fire it will be lumpy—perhaps leathery ; if too much butter is used it will be greasy. The process must be conducted patiently, if the true con- sistency and smoothness are to be arrived at, in the following manner :—Break five large or six small eggs into a bowl with a saltspoonful of salt and a dust of pepper ; mix them well. Weigh three ounces of butter ; divide this into two equal portions, cutting one of them up into small pieces and putting the other into a stewpan over a low fire. Melt the latter and then pour in the egg mixture, whisk it withoutCOOKED MARINADE. 13 stopping till signs of thickening show themselves ; then take a wooden spoon, add the small pieces of butter one by one, and stir the contents of the sauce- pan about unceasingly until the mixture is evenly and lightly set. Now pass in the shrimps with a table- spoonful of cream ; stir together and serve in a legumiere or fireproof china dish, with sippets of nicely fried bread arranged round it. 2. Out of the best end of a neck of mutton trim seven nice cutlets, flatten with a cutlet bat, and lard with bacon in the manner explained for the hare cutlets in Menu i. Then lay Mutton cut- . , , lets roebuck them in an earthenware dish, and cover fashion. them with a cooked marinade, cold, made as follows :—Mince up finely three ounces of onion, three of carrot, half one of celery, one of parsley, and one of mixed herbs, or a tablespoonful of the dried ; butter a stewpan with an Marinade. ounce and a half of butter or clarified beef dripping, melt it, and then lay over it the minced vegetables and herbs ; fry till coloured, and then moisten with two gills of warm water and two of vinegar (Maille's French); bring to the boil, keep that up for two minutes, add a gill of claret, half an ounce of salt and a quarter of pepper, strain, and keep it in a basin till cold, then take off the fat, and use. This should be clone, of course, the day before, and the cutlets should remain in the marinade all night. When to be cooked, drain them from the liquid, wipe them with a dry cloth, lay them in a deep- sided saute-pan, on a bed of vegetables as given formmmmmmmm 14 FIFTY LUNCHES. No. 2, Menu ii., just cover with boiling broth made from the mutton trimmings, and continue to cook them very gently till tender. Now take them out, trim them, brush them over with melted glaze, and keep them in the mouth of the oven. Take two gills of the broth in which they were cooked, add half its quantity of the marinade, stir this into a roux made with half an ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour, which should be ready in another stewpan, bring to the boil, skim carefully, strain, add a dessert-spoonful of chopped olives, and serve in a sauce-boat. Dress a circle of turned olives round the cutlets, which should be arranged in a line on a flat silver dish, and serve. French beans go well with these cutlets, and ponimes de terre sautees. 3. Choose thirty nice chestnuts, take off their brown skins, put them into warm water Compote of over the fire for a minute or two, and when mfthkirsch, getting hot take them out and peel off their red skins; make a pint of weak syrup with a pint of water, ten ounces of sugar, and the zest of a lemon ; arrange the chestnuts on the surface of a roomy saute-pan, pour in the syrup in quantity just enough to cover, and simmer gently for twenty minutes, then drain them, and arrange them in a glass compote-dish ; strain the syrup into.a clean pan, add a sherry-glass of kirsch with the juice of half a lemon, and boil it down till it slightly coats the spoon ; cool, pour it over the chestnuts, and set the dish in a cold place. Whipped cream, if liked, may be laid on the surface to finish with. Care should beSTUFFED OLIVES A LA ROYALE. 15 taken to keep the chestnuts whole ; slow cooking will assist this. 4. First make a custard a la Royale:—In a small bowl beat up three fresh eggs, add a gill of milk, two tablespoonfuls of cream and one of grated Parmesan with seasoning: pour Stuffed t • • t 11 1 7 • t 1 1 olives a la the mixture into buttered danole-moxxlas, Royaie. steam gently till set, let them get cold, hollow out with a scoop a space in the centre of each, slip in an olive farcie, covering the opening with a little wad of the custard scooped out; turn out the moulds, arrange them in a circle, garnish with any nice small salading, and serve. Before using the olives farcies wipe them carefully to get rid of the oil in which they are preserved.16 ilfcWUMHi . ■■■■ ■■■■^H MENU IV. (January.) Orlys de merluclie. Faisan au riz tomate\ Eclairs au cafe\ Cremes de fromage. i. The first thing to be done in this case is to make the batter, for it must rest at least two hours before being used. Put three and a half ounces faddoik °£ Vienna flour into a howl, make a hollow in its centre, and break into it the yolks only of two eggs, add two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, and a saltspoonful of salt ; mix well, and then stir in by degrees enough lukewarm water to bring the batter to the consistency of thick cream, coating the spoon when lifted from it with a smooth film the eighth of an inch thick. Set the bowl aside now, covered with a cloth, in the ordinary warmish temperature of the kitchen. Do not put it into a cold larder. When to be used stir into it the white of one of the eggs whipped to a froth. Prepare the fish next, having procured a nice haddock. First take off the flesh on both sides of the fish, and put the two fillets thus procured upon a wooden slab ; with a sharp knife divide these into smaller fillets about two inches long, half an inch thick, and an inch wide. Lay these out upon a jointPHEASANT WITH RICE. 17 dish, sprinkle them with lemon-juice or good French vinegar, and dust them over with salt and pepper and powdered herbs. Next, with all the bones, head, and trimmings make two gills of broth for the sauce (No. 1, Menu ii.), a sherry-glass of chablis or sauterne being used if possible in the decoction. Strain this when ready, thicken it, add a gill of tomato puree or a tablespoonful of conserve; boil up, sldm, reduce till of a nice consistency and pass through the hair sieve, finishing with a tablespoonful of cream. Serve this in a sauce-boat. As for the fillets, lift them from the marinade, lay them on a clean floured cloth, dry them thoroughly, finish the batter with the white of egg as already described, dip the fillets into the batter, and pass them one by one into a deep bath of boiling fat. As soon as a nice golden colour, take them out, lay them on a wire drainer over folded paper in front of the fire, and when drained and dry, sprinkle with salt, lay them on a hot napkin on a hot dish, and serve, the sauce accompanying. 2. For this the pheasant must be trussed for boil- ing, and it is worth noting that the process is applicable to birds which are too old for roasting. Set a roomy stewpan on the Smtomato- nre, large enough, that is to say, to hold flavoured the pheasant easily. Pour in enough cold Hce' stock, or milk, or milk and water in half and half proportions to eventually cover the bird when it is put in. Bring the liquid to the boil, then plunge in the pheasant, keeping up the high temperature for five minutes, then add four ounces of onion, two of 3FIFTY LUNCHES. carrot, one of celery, one of parsley, and a bouquet garni, with half an ounce of salt and a dozen pepper- corns. This addition will stop the boiling, after which ease the heat under the vessel to gentle simmering, and on no account permit this to be exceeded. The tenderness of the pheasant will entirely depend upon the slowness of the cooking. An hour and a half should effect this. Then strain off the broth, wrap the bird in a hot cloth and put it back into the hot empty pan, closely covered, to keep hot, while you turn a pint of the boilings to a sauce, thickening with an ounce of butter and one of flour, bringing it to the boil, and passing it through a hair sieve. Boil separately, during the last half hour of sim- mering the pheasant, eight ounces of the best Patna rice (see No. 2, Menu i.), and after Tomato- returning it to the pan as therein directed flavoured ^ [n twQ ounces of fresh butter, and nCC' half a pint of hot tomato puree; mix with a two-pronged fork, and finally shake in two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese. Now take a hot joint- dish, place the pheasant in the centre of it, mask it with as much of the sauce as is necessary, sending the remainder in a boat, and arrange the rice all round it If liked, the bird can be cut up, the pieces being laid neatly on the dish, the masking poured over them, and the circle of rice round the whole. « Put two gills of water into a casserole or stew- pan over a low fire with a pinch of salt, half an19 ECLAIRS WITH COFFEE. ounce of sugar, and four ounces of butter ; as soon as the last is melted take the pan from the fire, and stir in by degrees eight ounces of flour. Mix well to get rid of lumps, replace the Ecjf !rs wi™ pan on the fire, keeping it low, and work the paste vigorously until it leaves the side of the stewpan. Take it off the fire, let it get half cold, and then add three eggs one by one, working them well into the paste, and the zest of an orange or lemon. Now put the paste into a forcing-bag with a rather wide plain pipe, and squeeze it out in four and a half inch lengths upon a buttered baking-tin lined with buttered paper, glaze over with beaten egg and push the tin into a moderate oven ; watch them, and when nicely risen, take out the tin, pass the blade of a knife under the eclairs to detach them, lay them on a wire drainer, and put them into the oven, now warm, with the door ajar to dry. Let them get cold, then open them gently on the sides, and squeeze in cream enough to fill their cavities, brush over all with thin apricot glaze, and mask the surfaces with coffee icing made in this way :—Put a gill of syrup into a bowl, mix with half a gill of very strong coffee, then stir in by degrees glazing sugar sufficient to bring it to the consistency of thick mayonnaise. Use as directed. In laying on the glaze be careful to keep it smooth ; the blade of a palette-knife dipped in hot water will enable the cook to effect this. 4. Make half a pint of custard with three whole eggs, stir in half an ounce of soaked gelatine ; whenFIFTY LUNCHES. 20 dissolved, cool, and whip, adding two ounces of grated Parmesan and a gill of whipped cream with one tablespoonful of chopped ham and Little cheese one 0f chopped cooked macaroni. Fill MuZaisl" little darioles with the mixture, set them on ice or in a cold place ; turn out when firm, and serve prettily dished with broken aspic and picked leaves of endive as garnish. Mayonnaise sauce may accompany.MENU V. (February.) Filets de barbue a la Bonnefoy. Poulet a la Toscane. Proflterolles au chocolat. (Eufs a la Russe. 1. Out of a small brill make six neat fillets. With the skin, bones, and trimmings make a nice broth, about three-quarters of a pint enough ; turn this to a sauce, passing it through the Blin fillets a hair sieve to get it smooth, add a table- la Bonnef°y- spoonful of finely chopped parsley and a teaspoonful of minced gherkins. Keep this hot in the bain-marie while you bread-crumb and fry the fillets in boiling fat. Drain, and dry these, sprinkle salt over them, dish in a hot dish upon a paper garnished with parsley and lemon, and serve the sauce separately. 2. This is a useful dish, being negotiable with a cold roast fowl. Begin by cutting up the fowl and taking all the meat in as nice pieces as you can from the bones. Put this in a Chicken or dish aside, while you chop up all thereat? bones, skin, and trimmings of the bird. Choose a stewpan, put the bones into it, cover them with milk and water, bring slowly to the boil, add four ounces of onion, one of celery, one of parsley,22 FIFTY LUNCHES. a bouquet, and the chopped stalks and peelings of a quarter of a pound of fresh mushrooms ; add a seasoning of salt and pepper, and simmer for one hour, then strain ; turn the liquid to a sauce, passing it through the hair sieve, and adding a tablespoonful of cream ; lay the pieces of fowl in this with the mushrooms which .yielded the trimmings, separately fried and cut into squares, two ounces of cooked macaroni, cut into quarter inch-lengths, and a table- spoonful of coarsely chopped cooked ham. Heat all up gently, and at the last dust over the whole a fine layer of grated Parmesan. Serve as you would a fricassee in an entree-dish., puree de pommes de lerrc accompanying. 3. Make the same paste as that described for eclairs (No. 3, Menu iv.), squeeze it out in rounds instead of oblongs about the size of a Profiterolles racquet ball. Bake in the same way, dry, dwcolatc. and having made an incision in each fill the cavities of the profiterolles with cream. Arrange on a silver dish and accompany them with chocolate sauce in a boat made in this manner:— Dissolve two ounces of unsweetened chocolate in half a pint of water, add half a stick of vanilla or a teaspoonful of the essence, two ounces Chocolate Qf sifted sugar, and a squeeze of lemon- saucc. .uice . gtir togetner tin creamy, and serve. If sweetened chocolat a la vanille is used neither sugar nor vanilla will be needed. A tablespoonful of cream is an improvement. Some serve the profiterolles in a dish in the sauce, but this has the effect of making23 EGGS A LA RUSSE. the former sodden. This dish may be served hot or cold. 4. Break four eggs, separating the yolks from the whites and putting each in separate basins ; mix well without beating, giving each a slight seasoning of salt and white pepper and fjjf*s" la a tablespoonful of cream. Next choose a dozen little saucer-shaped bouchee-moulds an inch and a half in diameter, butter them, and three-parts fill them with the white mixture. Put all the yellow mixture into a buttered shallow fireproof pan (one of the kind sold for small gratins will-do) ; the liquid should be not more than half an inch deep. Now steam each of the preparations very gently until set ; then put them aside in the moulds to get cold. To finish, take the small moulds first, and with a vegetable scoop remove enough of the white from the centre of each to form a cavity similar to that left in a hard-boiled egg after removing the yolk, turn the little cups thus formed out- of the moulds, and fill each cavity with a small teaspoonful of fresh caviar, which should be prepared before using with a few drops of lemon-juice and a dusting of Nepaul pepper ; arrange all the little cups of caviar in a circle on a dish, and then turn your attention to the yellow mixture. Out of this stamp as many rings as you have moulds, using two round cutters for the work, the larger one an inch and a half, the smaller an inch in diameter. Drop one of these gently upon the top of each cup, so as to leave the caviar visible in the centre, surrounded by theFIFTY LUNCHES. 24 yellow ring. All the remnants of yellow should be finely granulated by being pressed through a wire sieve and used as a carpet in the dish containing the cups. Over all a fine lacework of garden cress care- fully dried may be scattered. By forming the cups of custard a la Royale blanche you insure uniformity of shape ; the cups formed by an ordinary hard- boiled egg, when cut in halves across, rarely have the cavity in the exact centre, one side being some- times so thin as to be quite brittle. Then the mixture with the cream and seasoning is more delicate than plain egg.MENU VI. 25 {February.) Morue sal^e a la bonne femme. Cotelettes de mouton a la Louise. Charlotte pralin^e. Croustades a la Bohemienne. i. Salt cod can often be procured from the fish- monger very partially salted, and only requiring a short period of soaking. Ordinary salt cod should be steeped in tepid water for Salt coci six hours, and in cold for six hours, the water in each case being changed four times. To dress after soaking, put the fish into cold water, and bring to the boil, simmer immediately for five minutes and it will be done. To serve (say two pounds) boil, drain, and mash two pounds of potatoes, moistening with two ounces of butter and a gill of the cod-boilings ; get the puree smooth and creamy by passing it through a wire sieve, finish with a tablespoonful of cream and two of grated Parmesan. This should not be nearly as stiff as mashed potatoes in the English way. With it make a bed upon a very hot dish, lay the cod upon it, and mask the whole with hard-boiled egg sauce, the moistening of which should be the fish-boilings. The dish is im- proved if one-third of the liquid used for cooking the cod be milk.FIFTY LUNCHES. 26 2. Choose a nice neck of mutton, divide it into the neatest cutlets you can, trim them, give them a dust of pepper and salt, and place them en Outlets with marinadc during the night. For the garnish spinach you want one ounce of blanched onion, a Louise Pouncl °f spinach that has been picked, washed well, blanched for live minutes in boiling salted water, and drained of all moisture, one small cabbage lettuce, also blanched and drained, and two tablespoonfuls of butter. Take a quart stewpan. melt the butter at the bottom of it over a low fire ; put into it the onion very finely shredded, fry this gently till it turns a pale yellow, and then add half an ounce of flour, the whole of the spinach and the lettuce also finely cut up. Stir the vegetables about in the melted butter till they begin to change colour, and then moisten with a quarter of a pint of good broth ; stir this well, and put in a teaspoon- ful of powdered white sugar, three saltspoonfuls of salt, and a good dusting of black pepper. Add another gill of broth and let the vegetables simmer for about fifteen minutes, stirring them to prevent their catching at the bottom of the pan, till they assume the consistency of a thick puree, when they should be passed through a wire sieve. Add a tablespoonful of cream and they will be ready to accompany your cutlets. These should be drained from their mari- nade, wiped dry, dipped in melted butter, and grilled over a bright clear fire. Prepare a neat border of pounded rice, fill it with the puree burning hot, and arrange the cutlets round the outside of the circle, with bunches of watercress for garnish.CHARLOTTE WITH BURNT ALMONDS. 27 3. Choose a round plain charlotte-mould, five inches in diameter. Buy one and a half dozen savoy biscuits. Make half a pound of Genoise paste, out of which (half an inch thick) cut a round ^^'^//^ a little larger than the circumference of almonds. the mould. Make a glace royale (or cook's paste) with white of egg and icing sugar, and cut the savoys neatly so that their edges may be straight and clean. One of the rounded ends may be left to form a scalloped edge round the top. Ar- range these one by one round the inside of the mould rounded ends uppermost, sticking them together by brushing their edges with the sticking-paste. When the circle has thus been completed put the mould in the oven (a very moderate one), so that the case you have made may set firmly, and when this has been done turn it out. Next make five ounces of pra- line with three ounces of powdered sugar and two of blanched and chopped almonds ; i.e., melt the sugar over a low fire in a small saucepan, let it turn a nice brown colour, then slip in the almonds, stir well for a minute or two, stopping before the sugar turns too dark a tint, and then pour out the whole at once on to a cold slab. It will harden immediately. When cold, pound this in a mortar, sifting the fine powder and keeping some of the rougher pieces to use when finishing the case. This should be done as follows : Set the case upon the genoise slab, fixing the two together with the glace royale, and tie round the case, about an inch and a half below the top of it, a band of pink or pale-blue satin ribbon, finishing it with a bow. Lastly, fill the hollow of the case with whipped28 FIFTY LUNCHES. cream, flavoured with the powdered praline, the rougher pieces being sprinkled over the top of it. For a little mould of this size half a pint of cream will suffice. Keep it very cold before whipping, and pass in the powdered praline at the same time. 4. For these you will require six open short paste cases, which may be baked in oval or round patty- , , pans. The paste should be made in this Croustades x „ , £ a luifji saiaci way :—Put three ounces of flour upon a a la Bohc- pastry-board, make a little well in the micnne- centre of it, into that put an ounce and a half of butter and the yolk of one egg ; mix, adding an ounce and a half of grated Parmesan cheese and half a gill of water to complete the paste. Roll this out as thin as possible, butter the patty-pans, line them with it, prick the hollows and fill them with raw rice, bake a pale brown ; cool, empty the cases thus made, and when cold turn them out of the pans. To finish, fill each case with an anchovy salad made in this manner :—Allow two fillets of anchovy for each case, remove the oil from these, and cut them into quarter-inch pieces. Take for each a tablespoonful and a half of finely cut and cooked macedoine of vege- tables (the French preserved is very good). See that this is dry, then sprinkle with tarragon vinegar, mix in the anchovy pieces, finish with just enough mayonnaise sauce to moisten nicely, and arrange the salad in a little pyramid in each case. Broken aspic may be arranged in the dish with the croustades.MENU VII. 29 (February.') Tranche de saumon poch6e. Carre" de mouton a la Turque. Creme de macarons au noyeau. CEufs a la Livournaise. 1. A slice of salmon weighing about a pound having been procured, not more than an inch thick, and a pennyworth of fish-cuttings, make a pint and a half of broth with the latter Slice °T at once, strain it, add a glass of chablis, ■poached. and pour it into an eight-inch saute-pan with an upright rim. Bring to the boil, then put in the salmon; let it boil a minute, then simmer for eight or ten till tender. Drain off all the broth, leaving the salmon in the dry pan, covered with a hot cloth, while you turn half the broth to sauce, a roux of three-quarters of an ounce of butter and the same of flour being ready in a different stewpan. Boil up and skim, passing it rapidly through a hair sieve, and finishing with the yolk of an egg and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Divide the salmon into nice pieces, dish on a small flat silver dish, mask with the sauce, and serve. 2. A neck of mutton should be got for this. With the scrag and trimmings make a broth, and trim the30 FIFTY LUNCHES. best end neatly as a small joint. The broth should be made the previous day. For the luncheon dish \e kof kro*n on ^° boil, then slip in the mutton piece of best end, with four ounces each filao it la of onion, turnip, and carrot, an ounce urque. of celery, a bunch of parsley, a bouquet garni, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Simmer now until the meat is tender (about one hour and a half if the fire be kept quite low), then strain off the broth, keep the piece of mutton in the empty pan covered with a hot cloth and with the lid on. Rapidly boil up the broth, adding when boiling six ounces of best Patna rice, proceeding precisely as described in the case of ordinary boiled rice in Menu i. Drain, dry in the same manner, mix into it an ounce and a half of butter and a large teaspoonful of tur- meric powder. This will give the rice a pale yellow tint, and a slight flavour. Now uncover the mutton, divide it into cutlets, lay these in a hot dish overlapping each other, smother them with the rice, and having quickly turned three-quarters of a pint of the broth to a sauce, add a gill of tomato conserve or puree to it and send round in a boat. 3. Boil three gills of milk, flavouring it with almond essence, let this get cold ; now beat three whole eggs and one yolk extra in a bowl, Cream of with two ounces of sugar, using a whisk, ZmZyeau. and passing in the flavoured milk. Put the bowl over a stewpan containing boil- ing water and stir over the fire until the custard begins to form ; when thick enough to coat the spoon add an ounce of gelatine that has been dis-CREAM OF MACAROONS WITH NOYEAU. 31 solved in hot milk, take the bowl out of the stew- pan, and continue to stir for a few minutes, adding two ounces of macaroons which have been soaked in milk and pressed through a sieve; whip all together, add a gill of whipped cream, and a liqueur- glass of noyeau. Line a wetted plain mould with paper, pour in the mixture, set in on ice, and in due course turn the cream out, remove the paper, and serve with a syrup tinted pink with cochineal, and flavoured with noyeau and the juice of half a lemon. 4. Make a dozen cups with custard a la Royale blanche as in the case of ceufs a la Russe. Make the yellow custard also. Treat the latter in this way :— When cold empty it into a mortar, add an ounce of butter, eight of fillets of anchovies that have been freed from oil, a large dessert-spoonful of finely minced olives, and a dozen capers ; pound tho- roughly, moisten with a spoonful of cream, arrange the farce in the hollows of the cups, forming it dome- wise above the level of the cups, dust granulated hard-boiled egg over all, and serve as in the case of ceufs a la Russe.MENU VIII. 32 (February.) (Eufs poch^s a la fermifcre. Poitrine de veau aux tomates. Pommes au kirsch. Crimes aux crevettes a la Mornay. I, For this you will want half a pound of mush- rooms. Peel them and cut off the stalks, put the mushrooms aside, chop up the peelings Poached an(j stalks, wash and dry them, put half a fernricrc. pint of milk in a small stewpan with these chopped trimmings and a seasoning of salt and white pepper ; bring to the boil and simmer for ten minutes, then strain the milk through a fine tamis or hair sieve. Now put half an ounce of butter into the stewpan, after having washed it, set this over a low fire, stir in half an ounce of flour, mix a ronx without colouring, then moisten with the strained milk ; bring gently to the boil, put in the peeled mushrooms and simmer them till tender. To finish, choose a silver or china legumiere, make it very hot, take the mushrooms out of the sauce, cut them into nice pieces, arrange them on the dish, pass the sauce through the hair sieve ; heat it up again, stir in a tablespoonful of cream, and pour it over the mush- rooms ; arrange half a dozen poached eggs on the surface, and serve.BREAST OF VEAL WITH TOMATOES. 33 2. Choose a piece of breast of veal, bone it, spread over the surface of the meat a half-inch layer of veal stuffing ; roll the meat up, and secure it in shape with ties of string or tape. Take Breast of africandeau or stewpan large enough to Tomatoes hold the roll of veal, put into it two ounces of clarified dripping, melt this over a moderate fire, and then put in, minced quite small, three ounces each of onion and carrot, half one of celery, a dessert- spoonful of parsley cut up, and the same measure of dried herbs in a muslin bag ; fry all together, adding half an ounce of glaze, lay the roll of meat upon the top of the vegetables and fry with them till it is coloured ; now moisten with warm broth made from the bones ; bring to the boil and then simmer till done —about two hours enough. Lastly, take out the meat remove the strings, lay it on a flat dish made hot to receive it, cover closely ; pass the vegetables and broth through a hair sieve, put the puree thus made over a quick fire, skim off all fat, add a gill of tomato Puree or conserve, pour over the veal, and serve with tomatoes separately cooked, in a ring round the meat, alternated with rolls of crisply cooked bacon To cook rolls of bacon, lay them, after rolling, in a small baking-tin and put that into the oven j watch, and when cooked nicely take the tin out, and use the rolls as directed. N.B.-In all cases when a boned joint is chosen for luncheon it is highly advisable to prepare it the day before. The bones and trimmings^ can then be set to make a broth. During the night the meat may be marinaded with advantage. 3334 FIFTY LUNCHES. 3. Here, having procured enough apples for a nice compote—-the number will obviously depend upon the size of the fruit—it will be necessary to Apples with make a pint 0f weak syrup with powdered kmch- sugar ancj water; ten ounces of sugar will yield the sort of syrup we want with one pint of water. Set this over the fire to simmer, flavour with a liqueur-glass of kirsch, then slip in the apples neatly pared and quartered. Cook gently till the pieces of apples are clone, stopping before they break or become pulpy ; drain them with a perforated spoon from the syrup, and lay them on a glass compote-dish. Now put into the syrup two tablespoonfuls of apricot jam, another liqueur-glass of kirsch, a teaspoonful of cornflour, or crane de rig, and the juice of a lemon ; bring to the boil, and stir continually till the consistency attains that of thin treacle, after which cool, and strain it over the pieces of apple ; let the dish become as cold as possible, and serve. Whipped cream may of course be laid over the apples, or cream may be handed separately, accord- ing to taste. 4 For this little savoury make a cheese cream (see No. 4, Menu iv.), and fill nine little darioles with it by degrees, setting in each danole, Creams with aiso by degrees, as much minced picked 5E2SJ* la Crimps as the cream will dilute nicely. Let the moulds become firm, then turn them out, dish tastefully, and serve.MENU IX. (March.) CEufs a la poissonni&re. Epaule d'ag-neau aux concombres. Macaronade a la Dubois. Croutes aux laitances. i. A nice way of turning cold cooked fish to account. Required, about a pound of cold cod turbot, or any white fish ; trim the fish into neat pieces, picking out all bones, with make about half a pint of fish broth and £££2** turn it to a sauce. Now choose a silver £m^-dish or fireproof china baking-dish, arrange the fish in the centre, surrounding it with a circle of hard-boiled eggs cut into halves, with their cut sides uppermost; mask the whole with the sauce, dust over with grated Parmesan, and set in the oven As soon as the surface has taken a slight colour the dish can be served. weli ^nT fnd f011 *?e Sh°Ulder °f lamb' zoning well, and laying a few slices of cooked streakv bacon over the meat before rolling it; tie it in shane and wrap it in buttered paper ; roalt carefullypasting well and removing the paper during the last even of e^ht minutes. When done lay the foil on a hot 1" remove the ties, slice it neatly in quarter-inch slfces36 FIFTY LUNCHES. using a very sharp knife, so that they may overlap each other, brush over them some diluted glaze, and garnish with cucumber fillets that have been sepa- rately simmered in thickened broth, which will form their sauce when dished. 3. For this you want half a preserved pineapple, a pint of almond-flavoured custard, and a dozen macaroons. Lay the macaroons in a compote-dish and tipsify them with maraschino, cut the pineapple into quarter-inch squares and arrange a layer of them over the macaroons, moisten with the custard (which should be rather thick), sprinkle the surface with the rest of the pineapple, and, if you like, cover with whipped cream. 4 Make the short paste, recipe for which was given for No. 4, Menu vi., roll it out a quarter-inch thick, and, using a two-inch cutter, stamp it out in rounds ; prick these, lay them on buttered paper on a buttered baking-tin, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, take them out, and let them get cold. Complete them in this way, spread them over thinly with green butter, sprinkle over that chopped cooked herring roe and olives, and mask with mayonnatse sauce Dish nicely garnished with broken aspic, and a small salade mile in the centre.MENU X. 37 (March.') Bordure de saumon a la Parmentier. Noisettes de mouton a la Soyer. Croutes a la Nonnande. Salade a la belle alliance. i. Take six ounces of cold cooked salmon and pound it in a mortar with two ounces of butter and two of bread panada ; pass all through a wire sieve into a bowl ; now stir in two Border of whole eggs and the yolk only of another. salmo"- Work all well together with a wooden spoon, and finish with a tablespoonful of cream. Butter a round pint border mould and fill it with the mixture, steam gently till nicely set, mask with maitre cVhotel sauce, and fill the centre of the border with small new potatoes moistened with maitre cV hotel butter. 2. Cut out of the best end of a neck of mutton half a dozen noisettes, i.e., neat round-shaped fillets—the meaty part of the cutlets only. Put these aside and turn all the bones and trimmings to broth. This should be clone the day be- Noisettes of fore. On the morning required cook the Soyer" * * noisettes m the manner explained for the cutlets in No. 2, Menu ii., /...-braise them, using the broth aforesaid for their moistening. Dish them inFIFTY LUNCHES. 3« the same way, garnished all round with flageolets and this sauce accompanying :—Having skimmed off all the fat from the broth, thicken three gills of it with butter and flour ; boil, skim, pass through the hair sieve, tint it a nice brown with caramel, flavour with a sherry-glass of claret, and garnish with strips of cooked ham and white of egg, and two gherkins chopped small. 3. Weigh half a pound of Normandy pippins, soak them for a couple of hours in cold water, after which drain them, put them in a stewpan with Cake crusts ^e very finely peeled rind of one lemon a la Nor- < . r 1 1 mande. and one orange, two ounces of powdered sugar, a stick of cinnamon, the juice of the lemon and orange, and sufficient claret and water in half-and-half proportions to cover them. Simmer slowly until the pippins are tender but not broken, then drain them and lay them on a dish to get cold. Now add two tablespoonfuls of raspberry jam to the syrup in which the fruit was cooked, bring to the boil, simmer for five minutes and strain through a hair sieve ; return the liquid to the stewpan, and reduce it until it attains the consistency of thickish honey, finish with a sherry-glass of cherry brandy and let it get cold. Now out of a stale madeira cake cut three or four slices half an inch thick, and with a two and a half inch cutter stamp out as many rounds as you have pippins to serve ; fry these lightly in butter just to seize their surfaces, and let them get cold. Arrange your dish finally as follows -.—First place a circle of the cake croutes, brush them overSALADE A LA BELLE ALLIANCE. 39 with some of the reduced syrup ; place a pippin on each, mask them all with the rest of the syrup, and serve with Devonshire, cream, which, if you like, may be squeezed through a forcing bag in little cones between each pippin, or in the centre of the dish. 4. This kind of salad makes a nice luncheon savoury:—Take from four to six ounces of cold cooked chicken and from two to three (half the weight) of cold cooked tongue ; ^j^f^ la cut both meats into julienne-like strips, ancc. open a small (the smallest) tin of pate de foie gras, melt off the fat, wipe the pate, and cut it up into slices also ; boil, and set to get cold a quarter bundle of seakale ; cut the vegetable into strips, using a silver dessert-knife ; now take a silver or china le'gumiere, make a bed at the bottom of it with some of the seakale, over that arrange a layer of mixed meats, then more seakale, sprinkling over each layer a seasoning of pepper and salt ; finish the arrange- ment in dome shape, with strips of seakale outside, and moisten with mayonnaise sauce, keeping the whole as cold as possible ; garnish round the base of the dome with hard-boiled eggs in halves, turned olives, and little heaps of broken jelly.MENU XL (March.) Merlans a la maitre d'h6teL Poulet en pilao. Fain de marrons. Canapes au jambon. i. Buy three medium-sized whitings as they are, that is to say, not skinned and twisted round by the fishmonger. Remove the flesh in fillets, Whiting a la one from each side of the fish, retaining d1 hotel. the skin. With the heads and bones make a pint of broth, moistening with milk and water in half-and-half proportions (see No. i, Menuii.). Choose a gmtin-dish or fireproof china baking-dish, butter it, sprinkle over the butter a tablespoonful of finely minced parsley, lay the whiting fillets in a line upon this bed, brush melted butter over their upper surfaces and sprinkle with minced parsley, shake a few drops of lemon-juice over them also, and pour three tablespoonfuls of the broth round them. A quarter of an hour before luncheon push the dish into the Dutch oven, bake for eight or ten minutes before the fire, turning the dish round once, and basting once or twice during the cooking. Serve in the dish laid upon another with a napkin folded upon it. During the baking turn the remainder of the broth to a sauce by thickening it with half an ounce 4oPI LAO OF FOWL. 41 each of butter and flour, and finishing it with a table- spoonful of minced parsley and a squeeze of lemon- juice. Pour this over the fillets before serving. 2. Prepare and cook the fowl precisely as explained for faisan au riz, Menu iv., and boil the rice in the broth in the same way. Those who like a highly spiced pilao must give directions ™™ of accordingly, the spice being stirred in °W' with the broth. The rice may be tinted pale yellow with turmeric powder, as directed for riz a la Turque, Menu vii., but that is a matter of taste also. Dish the bird smothered with the rice, and garnished as follows :—A circle of hard-boiled eggs in quarters all round the base of the mound of rice, and a sprinkling of cardamom powder over the rice, while pistachio nuts or almonds lightly fried in butter with an equal quantity of sultana raisins (two ounces of each) should be scattered over the whole ; fry the raisins and nuts in butter over a very low fire, or they will be hard. In India the cook also adds rings of fried shallots • these must be sliced finely lengthwise, and tossed in butter till dry. About three ounces should be enough. All the garnish should be ready before the boiling of the rice, for the dishing should be as expe- ditious as possible ; a little delay has the effect of making the rice greasy.-N.B. The broth in which the rice was boiled may be used for a thick white soiip like lait d'amandes, or crcme d'orge. 3- Remove the outer skin of a dozen large chest- nuts, scald them to facilitate the removal of the42 FIFTY LUNCHES. inner skin, then lay them in a stewpan just covered with milk flavoured with vanilla. Simmer slowly until the chestnuts are soft and most chcstnufs. o£ the milk absorbed> then rub the whole through a hair sieve. You ought now to have half a pint measure of puree; sweeten this with an ounce of sugar, flavour with two tablespoon- fuls of kirsch or any liqueur that may be available. Pass in half a pint of vanilla-flavoured custard, in which an ounce of gelatine has been dissolved, and as the mixture cools, whip it well, finishing with a gill of whipped cream. Have ready a pint and a half plain mould lined with wetted paper, pour in the cream, and set the mould in ice. Serve with a gill of syrup tinted pink with cochineal flavoured with lemon-juice and a glass of the liqueur used in the puree. 4. Make nine round biscuits of the savoury short- paste given for No. 4, Menu iv., mixing into the composition a tablespoonful of finely minced lean of cooked ham. Roll out half an inch thick, stamp out the biscuits with a two-inch cutter, bake, and let them get cold. Also make nine little Ham , moulds of cream of ham, using small canapes. saucer.shaped bouchee-moulds one inch and three-quarters in diameter, and making the cream as explained for the colombines, Menu i. Steam in the same way, let them get cold, then turn them out, and place one on each biscuit, rounded side uppermost, sprinkling finely granulated hard-boiled egg mixed with a dessert-spoonful of finely minced olives over all. Dish tastefully, and serve.MENU XII. {March.) (Eufs sur le plat aux tomates. RagoUt de lapin a l'Irelandaise. Merveilles frites. Crofttes a la menag^re. i. The tomatoes for this dish must not be very ripe. Scald them, peel off their skins, cut them in quarters, drain them on a wire sieve, then mince, and arrange them on a buttered Eggs on the fireproof dish, enough being taken to tmates. make an even bed half an inch deep. Dust over the bed thus formed a seasoning of pepper, salt, and finely sifted herb mixture ; break eggs enough for the party, lay them carefully on the tomatoes, push the dish into the oven, and cook until the eggs are set. Sprinkle grated Parmesan over all, garnish with sippets of fried bread, and serve. 2. This uncommon way of dressing rabbits is to be recommended for a change :—Get a pair, take all the meat from the bones in as neat pieces as possible, cutting them afterwards a uniform Insh stew size as nearly as can be without waste. "** m6Wfc Break up the bones, including the heads, and put them mto a stewpan ; cover with cold water and milkFIFTY LUNCHES. 44 in half and half proportions, set over a low lire, and bring slowly to the boil, skimming off all scum ; now add a pound and a half of Spanish onions cut in quarters, a seasoning of salt and pepper, and a muslin bag containing a dessert-spoonful of dried sweet herbs. Simmer for a couple of hours, then strain, picking, out all the onion, which set aside. Next proceed to cook the meat in this way :—Put the broth on again, and when hot without quite boiling put in the meat immediately, reduce the heat, and simmer very gently until nicely done ; then strain off the broth, and put the meat on a plate. Have ready two pounds of well-boiled potatoes ; mash them, moistening with the rabbit broth ; stir in with them the onions which were set aside, and then pass all through a hair sieve into a bowl. Moisten the puree now with enough broth to bring it to the consistence of a thickish cream ; put this into a stewpan, put the meat into it, and stir gently over a moderate fire till hot enough to serve. Now, using a slice, lay the meat upon a hot entree-dish, and mask it entirely with the pmec, serving at once. 3. Dry, sift, and weigh five ounces of the best flour, put it into a bowl, make a hollow in the centre of it, into which break two eggs ; add an ounce of sifted sugar, a pinch of salt, two tablespoon- Fa"cy fuls of brandy, and two ounces of butter. fritters. ^ ^ ^ eggg firgtj then WQrk the flour with them, and the other ingredients, until a nice paste is formed, finishing it with the rasped zest of a lemon. Give it an hour's rest, then roll it45 THE HOUSEWIFE'S TOASTS. out thinly, cut it into inch ribbons three inches long, have ready a pan of boiling fat, drop the ribbons into it, fry till of a nice golden colour and crisp ; then drain, dry on a wire drainer, dust over with sifted sugar, and serve piled upon a hot napkin, sending round lemon and sugar. 4. Out of a slice of stale bread a quarter of an inch thick stamp out rounds with a two-inch cutter ; fry these a golden colour, and let them get cold after drying them in the mouth of T]\e.^01fe- wife s toasts the oven. Prepare a mixture as follows : Put into a mortar two ounces of fresh cream cheese, one ounce of butter, six fillets of anchovies freed from oil, six capers, a teaspoonful of made mustard, and a seasoning of salt and Nepaul pepper ; pound well, moistening with just enough cream to bring the mixture to the consistency of jam, pass it through a hair sieve, spread it on the fried oroides, smoothing the surfaces with a palette-knife dipped in warm water ; garnish the top of each with an olive farcie, and scatter some well-dried garden cress lightly over all.MENU XIII. (April.) Morue salie au riz tomato. Pat6 de veau chaud. Marrons 6tuv£s. Crimes de rhubarbe. 1. Turn to Menu vi., and prepare a piece of salt cod—say one pound and a half—in the manner there described. With the boilings make three StomatoWitk Sills of sauce> thickening it with two- flavoured thirds of an ounce of butter and an ounce rice' of flour ; stir in one gill of tomato sauce to flavour it and a tablespoonful of cream. Boil six ounces of rice in the manner explained in Menu i., and finish it as given for faisan au riz, Menu iv. Dish the cod in the centre of a hot flat dish, arrange a circle of the rice round it, mask the fish with some of the sauce, and send the rest round in a boat. 2. Select a small, yet deep, pie-dish large enough to contain a pound and a half of veal, and half a pound of ham with adjuncts. Ask the Veal and butcher to cut the veal in slices a quarter- ham pie. spread these upon a board an(j cut as many neat pieces out of them as you can, three and a half inches long and two and a half wide Season the surfaces of these pieces of meat with salt 4r,47 STEWED CHESTNUTS. pepper, and powdered dried herbs, and lay over each of them a thin slice of streaky bacon (cooked) slightly smaller than themselves. Roll each up. Now butter the pie-dish, sprinkle over it a nice layer of chopped parsley and chopped cooked mushroom, arrange a layer of the rolled meat upon that, and over it slices of the ham, hard-boiled eggs sliced, and pieces of cooked mushroom, repeat this again with another layer of rolls, &c, filling the pie-dish and covering the surface with thin slices of cooked bacon ; moisten with two gills of really good meat gravy. Lay a nice cover of puff paste over the top and bake it for an hour and a quarter in a moderate oven. 3. Remove the skin of two dozen chestnuts, scald them, and peel off their inner skins. Set them aside. Now put two ounces of minced onion into an earthenware stewpan with one ounce stcwed of butter; fry till brown, then stir in an chestnuts- ounce of flour, mix well, and moisten with three gills of good broth and one of claret; season with pepper, salt, and powdered rosemary, and bring slowly to the boil; skim, simmer ten minutes, and strain through a hair sieve. Wash out the stewpan, put back the strained sauce, and bring it to the boil; now slip in the prepared chestnuts, lower the heat to simmering and stew gently till they are done. Lastly, take off the stewpan, lift the chestnuts out with a perforated spoon, arrange them on a legumiere, stir the yolks of a couple of eggs into the sauce, and pour it over them.4« FIFTY LUNCHES. 4. Cut up a pound of rhubarb, and simmer it in just sufficient syrup flavoured with the zest of a lemon to cover it. When it is soft enough to barb creams. turn to a Pureei strain it from the juice, to which add half an ounce of dissolved gelatine, pass all through a hair, sieve adding to the pulp thus obtained a couple of gills of whipped cream ; whip altogether, and hll a dozen wetted darioles with the cream, set them on ice, and when firm turn them out, arrange them in a circle on a pretty dish and serve. The forced rhubarb is the best for this on account of its colour ; the sweetening will, of course, be in the syrup—ten ounces of sugar to a pint, but be careful not to have it too sweet ; a sherry-glass of kirsch is an immense improvement.MENU XIV. 5 49 (April.") (Eufs poches a la Celestine. Tranches de bceuf gratinees. Flageolets a la Romaine. Tartelettes amandines. i. With a pennyworth of fish-cuttings make a good fish broth—about three gills enough—following the rules already given for the process. Strain off, and at once proceed to thicken, com- Poached eggs mencing with three-quarters of an ounce cllesUne. of butter and the same of flour ; boil up and continue the boiling, stirring attentively all the time, until the sauce has become reduced one-third and coats the spoon when the latter is lifted from it. This point having been reached, stir into the sauce half a pint of picked shrimps which have been cut up into a coarse mince. Have ready six croutes of fried bread, lay them on a gratin-dish slightly buttered, cover each croute with the shrimp sauce, lay a poached egg on the top of that, push the dish into the oven for two or three minutes, and serve as hot as possible. 2. A good way of serving up en rechauffe cold roast or braised beef. First make a sauce as follows :— Thicken three gills of broth, lending it assistance with5° FIFTY LUNCHES. an ounce of meat glaze or a cup of strong gravy drained from the dripping of the roasted joint, and c- *, r flavouring it with the stalks and peelings Slices of beef , , , . . e gratinles. ot halt a P°und of mushrooms, bring to the boil, simmer for fifteen minutes, and pass the sauce through a hair sieve, catching up the bits of mushroom. Separately fry in butter the peeled mushrooms, cut up into a coarse mince, dust over with flour, and moisten with a gill of the sauce ; keep over a low fire till the minced mushroom is cooked and the consistence of the mince nearly that of jam. Now having cut the beef into a series of nice slices, warm them first of all in the remaining sauce, take them out, drain, and lay them on a board, spreading the mushroom mince thinly over their upper surfaces ; then lift them with a slice and arrange them in a line overlapping each other on a gratin-dish, the mushroom-covered sides upper- most ; mask over with the remaining sauce, with which a dessert - spoonful of marsala has been blended, push the dish into the oven to heat thoroughly ; serve garnished with well-made potato put ee. 3. A vegetable specially dressed instead of a savoury for a change. Blanch half a pound of green flageolot beans in boiling salt and water, Flageolet^ drain them after five minutes' boiling, and Romainc. give them a douche of cold water from the tap, drain this off, and let them cool while you fry two ounces of finely minced onion in an ounce of butter over a low fire till turning brown ;ALMOND TARTLETS. 5i then put in the beans, turn them about with the butter and onions for a minute, and moisten with warm broth arid tomato pwee in equal proportions sufficient to cover them. Simmer now gently till the beans are tender, skimming off the butter as it rises ; lastly, stir in two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan, and serve in a Ugumiere with short-paste biscuits made as described for No. 4, Menu ix. 4. Make, or procure, enough puff paste to line half a dozen patty-pans. This having been done, prick and brush over their hollows with apricot glaze. Weigh two ounces of almonds fl"}°"d after peeling them, chop them up small, fry gently in butter till a nice brown, then pound in a mortar with two ounces of finely sifted sugar flavoured with a liqueur-glass of noyeau, empty the contents of the mortar into a bowl, and stir in with a wooden spoon the yolk of an egg and two whites, with the zest and juice of a lemon ; mix until the mixture is creamy, then add to it a tablespoonful of minced citron ; with this three parts fill the patties allowing for rising in the baking, set them on a buttered paper in a buttered baking-tin, dust over with sugar, and bake in a gentle oven. Dust over with sugar again before serving.MENU XV. 52 (April.) Coquillea a la Carmelite. Pigeons en matelote. Gateau en demi-deuiL Darioles a la Milanaise. i. For this we require six scallop shells, either of silver or china, four ounces of cooked salt or fresh cod, two hard-boiled eggs, two fillets of S/Ca//°^ / anchovies freed from oil, and two gills of Carmelite. ^sn broth or milk flavoured with anchovy. Turn the last to a sauce with half an ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour, bring to the boil, and stir in a tablespoonful of tomato conserve ; mix well, and pass through a hair sieve. Now butter the shells, chop up the cold fish, also the hard-boiled eggs, put the mince into a bowl, season it with salt and white pepper, add a pinch of mace, cut up the fillets of anchovy and mix them with the mince, and then moisten with enough of the sauce to bring the mixture to the consistency of rather fluid jam. Fill the shells with this, smooth their surfaces, shake a canopy of finely sifted raspings over them, dot a few little pieces of butter over them also, and then bake, but do not allow the coquilles to dry up in that process. They should come to table moist and thoroughly hot.STEWED PIGEONS WITH MUSHROOMS. 53 2. Get two (or three) Bordeaux pigeons according to requirements. Have the livers put back into the birds after cleaning them. Truss as for boiling, the legs turned inwards. Melt an Stewed ounce of butter in a stewpan, put into it fi^ six ounces of streaky bacon that has been blanched and cut into inch squares ; fry till light brown, then remove the bacon and put it on a plate ; next put the pigeons into the same pan and fry them in the butter and melted bacon fat till they begin to brown, then take them out and set them aside with the bacon. Into the stewpan now stir an ounce of flour, making a roux with the butter left in it, and moisten, when it is mixed, with a pint of broth ; add the stalks and peelings, chopped small, of half a pound of mushrooms, season with salt and pepper, stir over the fire till boiling, simmer ten minutes, skim, and strain through a pointed strainer. Wash out the stewpan, put the pigeons into it with the strained sauce, a bouquet garni, the pieces of bacon, and a Spanish onion weighing eight ounces cut into quar- ters and blanched beforehand. Simmer twenty-five minutes, add the peeled mushrooms, simmer for ten minutes longer, and all being now done, take out the pigeons, cut them into halves, lay these on a hot dish, remove the bouquet, and after straining it skim the fat off the sauce, garnish the pieces of pigeon with the mushrooms, onions, and bacon, heat up the sauce, pour it over them, and serve. 3- Put into a bowl six ounces of sifted sugar, four whole eggs, and the zest of a lemon, whip over hotFIFTY LUNCHES. 54 water till just warm ; remove the bowl and continue beating the mixture until it is cold and thick, then stir in by degrees four ounces of warm monnnu'''lf sifted flour' and flavour with vanilla. Butter a circular border mould having a hollow rim, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven ; when done turn the cake out, brush it over with apricot glaze, arrange a ring of chocolate creams all round the rim, and send chocolate sauce separately. This can be served either hot or cold, and whipped cream may be put into the hollow centre. For the sauce see No. 3, Menu v. 4. Make half a pint of custard with a gill and a half of milk and three eggs, have ready an ounce Moulds of and a *ia^ °^ coo^ec^ macaroni cut up inlo macaroni quarter-inch lengths, a tablespoonful of /(( tomato conserve, and two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan or Gruyere. Butter six dariole-moulds, half fill them with the minced macaroni, without pressing it too closely, stir into the custard the cheese and tomato conserve, season with pepper and salt, and pour the mixture gently into the darioles, filling them three-quarters full. Steam the little moulds as described in No. 1, Menu ii. Serve cold, dusted over with grated Parmesan, and garnished with watercress. 1MENU XVI. 55 (April.) C6telettes de saumon poch^es. Carre d'agneau aux epinards. Creme Anglaise au praline. (Eufs de vanneau en croustades. i. For this we want six ounces of cooked salmon, two ounces of butter, and two ounces of bread panada. Put these ingredients into a mortar, pound well, and pass the whole Cutlets of through a hair sieve into a bowl. Stir in packed now two whole eggs and the yolk of a third, beat well together, season, and moisten with a tablespoonful of cream. Poach a little bit of this to test its consistency, and if satisfactory butter a dozen cutlet-moulds, fill them with the mixture, tapping them on the table to cause it to fill the moulds properly, and smoothing the surfaces with a palette-knife dipped in hot water. Poach the cutlets in the manner given in No. i, Menu ii., and when they are done take them out; have ready on a dish a mound of mashed potato well sloped outwards, turn out the cutlets, arrange them round the mound, having masked them with a sauce verte, and fill in the outside of the ring with bunches of watercress Sauce verte :—Have ready half a pint of fish broth thicken this, colour it a pale green with spinach-56 FIFTY LUNCHES. greening, reduce till it coats the spoon well, and finish it with finely minced chervil, parsley, and tarragon if procurable, with the squeeze of half a lemon. 2. Roast the best end of a neck of lamb, dishing in this way :—Sever the cutlets from the little joint, arrange them upon a hot flat dish over- Neckof lapping one another, brush over with liitiiu 'witli spinach. melted glaze, and garnish round the dish with small new potatoes that have been tossed in butter and sprinkled with parsley. The spinach, separately dished, should be cooked in this manner :—Pick the leaves carefully, rejecting all that are bruised and discoloured, wash them very care- fully, drain and plunge them for five minutes into boiling salted water, using plenty of it, and a roomy non-tinned vessel. The moment that the five minutes expire take the pan off the fire, drain the spinach on a large sieve, and refresh it with a good douche of cold water. Press out all moisture, turn the spinach out upon a board and chop it up, then put it into a casserole with two ounces of butter melted and hot, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of mace, and stir it over a moderate fire for ten minutes without leaving it, thus absorbing all moisture, and finish with two tablespoonfuls of cream or good white sauce. If a stiff consistency be de- sired half an ounce of flour may be mixed with the butter in the second stage of the work. These proportions are worked out for two pounds of spinach.57 PLOVERS' EGGS IN CASES. 3. Make a pint of custard with three gills of milk (boiled) and four large or five small eggs, flavour it well with praline, put it into a buttered charlotte-mould lined with buttered paper, Praline and steam gently until firm. The success pudding. of these custard puddings entirely depends on the slow steaming, directions for which have been already given. For the making, of praline see No. 3, Menu vi. Stir the powder into the custard. 4. Plovers' eggs are nice of course in any way. All you have to do in this case is to make little short- paste cases with the paste given for No. 4, Menu vi. ; roll it out thin, and with it line Plovers' c^s tti cases as many little oval patty pans two inches long as you have eggs to serve. After baking these and letting them get cold, turn them out of the pans, butter them with green butter, set a shelled hard- boiled plover's egg in the centre of each, and serve on a flat dish prettily garnished with watercress.MENU XVII. 58 (May.) CEufs brouilles aux asperges. Blanquette de veau a la citoyenne. Beignets de riz. Boudins a la Napolitaine. i. A small bundle of asparagus will meet the requirements of this dish. Untie the bundle, wash the vegetable, and cut the tender green Buttered ends into quarter-inch lengths ; set these edPs with asparagus, aside ; slice up the stalks into strips, put them into a stewpan, cover them with cold milk and water in half-and-half proportions, season with salt, set over a moderate fire, and bring to the boil ; simmer then till as soft as you can get them, after which turn the contents of the pan out upon a hair sieve, pressing as much pulp as you can with the liquid through it. Next with half an ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour make over a iow fire a roux at the bottom of the rinsed-out stewpan, moisten with half a pint of the boilings, and bring to the boil, skim, and add the cut-up green ends ; simmer these for twelve minutes, or until they are tender (the time will depend on the fresh- ness, size, and natural tenderness of the asparagus), and when ready pour the whole into a hot legumicre, arrange over the surface a canopy of buttered eggsBLANQUETTE OF VEAL A LA CITOYENNE. 59 (No. 1, Menu iii.), garnish with sippets of nicely fried bread, and serve. 2. A pound and a half of cold roast veal, not over- cooked in the first instance, will do for this. Cut the meat into thickish slices, trim these neatly (all trimmings will come in for a mince on Blanquette another occasion), dust them over with ttoytnnt flour, and let them remain on a dish while you prepare a sauce to receive them. At the bottom of a stewpan put half an ounce of butter, set over a low fire, and stir in half an ounce of flour, and when well mixed moisten with half a pint of good veal or chicken broth, which may have been made from bones, trimmings, or giblets. To this when it comes to the boil add the stalks and peelings of a quarter of pound of mushrooms, and such seasoning of salt and white pepper as may be necessary. Simmer for fifteen minutes, stirring and skimming off all scum, and then pass the sauce through a hair sieve. Return it to the washed-out stewpan, mix with it a gill of tomato sauce, put in the pieces of veal, and keep over a very low fire until sufficiently hot to serve, carefully avoiding boil- ing. Serve within a circle of mashed potato, and gar- nish the surface with the mushrooms which supplied the peelings, nicely broiled, and little rolls of bacon. 3. Boil four ounces of rice as already described, drain it, and empty it into a bowl ; stir into it two whole eggs and two yolks that have been beaten up in a gill of warm milk, set this in hot water over6o FIFTY LUNCHES. the fire till thickened, add two tablespoonfuls of crushed ratafias, and the zest of an orange, sweeten- Ricc With an ounce and a nalf of sugar ; fritters. when thoroughly blended turn the mix- ture out upon a slab, and with two wooden spoons pat it into a flat cake about three-eighths of an inch thick ; let this rest and it will get firm. When wanted divide the cake into small rounds or ovals, using a cutter for the operation, flour, egg, roll them in very finely pulverised and sifted crushed ratafias, clip into boiling fat a few at a time till golden, drain, dry, and serve on a hot napkin dusted over with sugar. An apricot syrup sauce flavoured with any nice liqueur may accompany. 4. Make half a pint of custard, using a gill and a half of milk and two whole eggs, season with salt and white pepper, and stir in a table- puddhigs" sPoonful °f grated cheese ; have two ounces of spaghetti boiled, cooled, and cut up small ; butter nine dmioles, half fill each loosely with the spaghetti, moisten till three-quarters filled with the cheese custard, and steam the little puddings till set (about fifteen minutes) ; let them get cold, turn them out of their moulds, dish in a circle with a small salad of cooked vegetables and strips of anchovy in the centre, and granulated hard-boiled eggs shaken over the little moulds. If liked hot, turn them out as soon as they are done, and mask with Milanaise sauce, to which a tablespoonful of finely minced olives and anchovies may be added as a garnish.MENU XVIII. (.May.) Salade de saumon a la Parmentier. Petits poulets aux legumes nouveaux. Beignets a la Romaine. Caisses de concombre a la mariniere. i. A pound and a half of cold cooked salmon should be ready for this. Peel off the skin, and cut the fish into neat pieces ; lay these out on a dish, dust them over with pepper and Salmon salt, and sprinkle with salad oil and vine- "cutumber gar. Prepare a garnish of cooked fillets of potato, or use a dozen small ones the size of a plover's egg for the purpose; make two gills of mayonnaise sauce, turning it pale green with the juice of the leaves of one bunch of watercress ex- pressed after boiling them for five minutes, draining, cooling, and drying them, and finishing with a table- spoonful of very finely minced chervil, chives, and tarragon. Arrange the pieces of salmon in a dome in the centre of a flat dish, mask with the sauce, and garnish round with a chain of the potatoes and a lew of the nicest leaves of a cos lettuce torn (not cut) into small pieces. 2. Two spring chickens having been procured, truss them for roasting, rub with a shallot, season withFIFTY LUNCHES. 62 salt and powdered rosemary, and cook them a la casserole, as follows : — Choose a large casserole, Sprfag melt three ounces of fresh beef drip- chicken with ping or butter at the bottom of it, put etabfVe^e" m the birc^s' ancl turn tnem about in the fat over a low lire for ten minutes to seize them without colouring. Now cover and push the casserole into the oven, basting the birds every now and then with gravy or good broth, covering the pan again on each occasion. As soon as done, take them out of the casserole, dish them on a flat dish, skim the fat off the surface of the liquid left in the pan, and pour it over them; gar- nish round with little heaps of separately cooked young carrots, turnips, and peas, the two former cut into little balls with a scoop, new potatoes accompanying. 3. Soak four ounces of macaroons in milk, the latter being just sufficient to soften them thoroughly, and no more. Put this into a bowl, and Fritters of break in four whole eggs ; mix and add macaroons. bb \ an ounce of sugar, the juice of a lemon and the zest, and a tablespoonful of finely minced green citron. Mix to the consistency of paste, spread it out on a slab three-eighths of an inch thick, and set it aside to grow firm. Finish as in the case of No. 3, Menu xvii. 4. Choose a good-sized cucumber, cut it into two- inch lengths, peel these ^carefully, and with a tube cutter cut out the seeds and part of the vegetable,CUCUMBER CASES WITH SHRIMPS. 63 thus forming a little drum of cucumber; fill up the hollow with a farce made of three ounces of pounded shrimps, one of panada, and Cucumber one of butter with seasoning, and moistened ItrZZ^ with a dessert-spoonful of cream, steam, and serve cold with mayonnaise sauce and a garnish of cress.MENU XIX. 64 (May.) Crabe grating. Mazagran de poulet. Groseilles vertes a la crfcme. Petits crimes d'asperges. 1. Take all the flesh from a medium-sized crab, tear it to shreds with two forks ; put this into a stewpan over a low fire, moisten with a Baked crab. ^ q{ gQod made upQn a figh brQth foundation, cut up an ounce and a half of butter into small squares, and add these by degrees, mixing in lastly one-third of the whole bulk of nicely mashed potato ; work all together smoothly, season with salt and pepper, butter a large silver coquille (or six smaller ones), fill it with the mixture, smooth over the surface with a palette-knife dipped in hot water, dust over with grated Parmesan, baste with melted butter, and bake for a few minutes in a moderate oven. Serve, when the surface has slightly browned, laid upon a hot napkin. 2. Take all the meat from the bones of a cold roast fowl, separating it from skin and sinew ; mince the meat and put it aside ; break the bones Mazagran of up witn a chopper, and with the skin, &c, chicken. a broth .n the manner given for No. 2, Menu v., turning it to a sauce in the same way.LITTLE CREAMS OF ASPARAGUS. 65 Boil six ounces of rice as described in Menu i., stir into it, when cooked, strained, and returned to the pan, two ounces of butter and a gill of tomato Puree; arrange this in a circle in a hot entree-dish, and, having meanwhile heated the mince in the sauce, pour it into the hollow centre, sprinkle finely minced cooked ham over the surface, and serve. 3. This is a variation of gooseberry fool, which is perhaps rather less common. Weigh a pound of picked gooseberries, put them into a stewpan, and moisten with a syrup made PurL<c °f with half a pint of water and eight ounces %g%£S. of sugar ; stew very gently till the syrup is absorbed and the fruit is reduced to a pulp ; then pass it through a hair sieve into a bowl; if additional sweetness be liked, additional sugar may now be stirred in, together with a gill of cream. Put this into a glass compote-dish, and cover the surface with whipped cream. 4. Half a small bundle of asparagus will do for this ; boil and simmer the heads in milk till tender then strain, let them get cold, cut off the green ends in small pieces the size of a Littlecreams pea, and press as much of the pulp as you ofaspamgus- can from the stalks through a sieve ; turn the milk in which the asparagus was cooked to a savoury custard, using one egg per gill. Now butter nine darioles, arrange the green ends at the bottom of them to form the tops when they are finally turned out, stir the pulp 666 FIFTY LUNCHES. into the custard, fill the moulds three-quarters full, steam gently till set, and when cold turn them out. Arrange them neatly on a flat dish, garnish with broken aspic and garden cress, and serve with a sauce mayonnaise made without mustard, plain red wine vinegar being used instead of tarragon, so as not to interfere with the flavour of the asparagus.MENU XX. (May.) Coquilles de poisson froid. Croquettes de bceuf a la Viennoise. Pots de creme au caf& Escalopes de foie gras au madere. r. Almost any cold cooked fish can be used in this manner, or even mixed fish, such as salmon and whiting, sole and shrimps, or turbot and lobster, enough only being required to fill, ^lsfish in say, six china scallop shells after making an allowance for the other materials. Cut up the fish in small pieces, and add to it one-third of its bulk of cold cooked mushroom cut into small squares, and for six shells a dessert-spoonful of minced pickled gherkins ; put all into a bowl, and moisten it with a tablespoonful of salad oil and a teaspoonful of tarra- gon vinegar, seasoning with pepper and salt; leave it thus marinading for a quarter of an hour. Take the mixed mince now out of the bowl, and in another one dress it with mayonnaise sauce ; next fill the scallop shells with the mince, trimming it in a dome, and masking the surface with mayonnaise; decorate the outside of the dome with strips of anchovies crumbled white and yolk of egg, and garden cress loosely shaken over all. Serve on a flat dish sur- rounded with watercress. 0768 FIFTY LUNCHES. 2. Take three-quarters of a pound of tender un- cooked beef, lean without any fat, skin, or sinew, and pass it through the mincing machine ; add Becf , one-quarter of its bulk of finely minced fat "aVicnZhc. bacon, two ounces of mushrooms, a table- spoonful of parsley, herbs, and shallot that have been minced and fried together, a seasoning of pepper and salt, and two whole eggs ; work all together, and shape out of it portions the size of a bantam's egg ; roll these on a floured board to dry them, then egg and bread-crumb them. Next plunge them into a pan of boiling fat simply to seize them externally ; drain and dry them, put them in a sautc- pan, moisten nearly level with their tops with a rather thin brown sauce to which a gill of tomato puree has been added, and simmer them for three- quarters of an hour over a low fire, basting them throughout the operation ; lift them out with a perforated slice, lay them on a hot flat dish, and strain the sauce over them ; a ring of equally sized new potatoes may be arranged round the margin of the dish. 3 Flavour a pint of milk with a quarter of a pound of coffee berries, as described for No. 3, Menu ii. After an hour's rest, strain and turn this Liitlc to a rich custard with six eggs, strain it mounds of thr h a hair sieve, add a gill of cream coffee a cam. ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ earthenware pots (china cases would do), steam them till set very gently, and let them get cold ; then turn them out, dish and serve with pure cream as a sauce, or withBROWN CHAUD-FROID GLAZE. 69 whipped cream sweetened and flavoured with vanilla in a glass dish. 4. The smallest sized pate de foie gras will do for this. Open the tin or lerrine, as the case may be, melt the fat round the pate, and pour it off ; with a very sharp knife cut the pate Escalopes of into slices a quarter-inch thick ; trim and 2™* lay these out on a flat dish, mask them on their upper sides only with brown chaud-froid glaze flavoured with madeira, and when this has set lift them with a slice, arrange them round a small block of fried bread, fill the space round them with broken aspic, and send dry toast round separately. Brown chaud-froid glaze :—Put half a pint of plain brown sauce on the fire ; see that the colour is good —a rich brown ; a few drops of caramel will give this; stir in a quarter of an ounce B>'°wn of soaked gelatine, dissolve this over a fazt^ moderate fire, skimming off all scum;& lastly add a dessert-spoonful of marsala, which in cooking may be substituted for madeira. Pour into a basin. As this cools it will gradually set, and the masking should be done the moment the consistency is such as to coat the spoon well when dipped into it; it should flow without lumps as honey or treacle does. If the dish with the escalopes be set over crushed ice the setting will be much more rapid. Trim off the portions of glaze which may have over- flowed the edges, and slip the slice under the esca- lopes to dish them.MENU XXI. (June.-) (Eufs poch^s a la CrispL C6telettes d'agneau a la Princesse. Croutes au chocolat. Boutons rouges a la Bolonaise. i. Boil three ounces of spaghetti, return it to the hot pan after draining, season, stir in an ounce of butter and keep it as hot as possible. Poached eggs while this is boiling prepare a salpicon as alaCrispi. „ , • r r follows:—Peel and mince tour ounces ot mushroom, chop up an ounce of onion, put an ounce of butter into a sawte'-pan, melt, add the mince, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley and seasoning. Fry, gently cooking all evenly, putting in with the other things four chickens' livers and half an ounce of glaze. Continue the gentle frying until the livers are quite soft, then empty all upon a wire sieve, and rub the mixture through it. To finish, arrange the spaghetti upon a buttered gralin- or china fireproof dish, at equi-distances make six hollows each large enough to hold a poached egg ; into these first put an allowance of the liver puree, then dust grated Parmesan over, and push the dish into the oven for a minute or two. When hot draw it out, lay a poached egg over each hollow, and serve.TOMATO SAVOURY. 7i 2. The cutlets having been neatly trimmed should be grilled, laid round a mound of spinach and served with this sauce :—Wash, dry, and slice up a small cucumber, skin and all, butter f a'"b cutlets r ' 7 . a la a stewpan with an ounce of butter, put in Princesse. the pieces of cucumber and fry them gently over a low fire ; do not let them turn brown, but stir in half an ounce of flour, and when well mixed moisten with just sufficient milk to cover ; bring to the boil, season with salt and pepper, and simmer till the vegetable is soft; then work it through the hair sieve. Warm up again, finishing with a tablespoonful of cream. This should be pale green, the consistency of rich soubise, and very delicately flavoured with the cucumber. 3. Cut nine or a dozen neat oval, round, or heart- shaped croutes a quarter-inch thick out of a stale madeira cake, fry them a golden yellow, and dry upon a drainer in a slack oven, ^^"^ mask with apricot glaze, set aside to iatc. ' get cold. Whip half a pint of cream till stiff, flavouring it with vanilla and sweetening it with finely sifted sugar. When ready, arrange this in the centre of a glass compote-dish, lay the oroides round it over-lapping each other, and send round a cold chocolate sauce as described for No. 3, Menu v. 4. Put an ounce of butter into a stewpan, melt over a low fire, and add a dessert-spoonful of finely minced onion ; fry gently for five minutes, and stir in a pound of ripe tomatoes of a good Tomato colour cut up into small pieces. Keep savo"'y-FIFTY LUNCHES. 72 the fire low, stirring to prevent catching, and season- ing with salt, pepper, mace, and finely powdered basil. When the tomatoes have been cooked to a pulp mix in with them three-quarters of an ounce of soaked gelatine, and keep this well stirred until it is thoroughly dissolved. Now pass the whole through a hair sieve, putting the liquid that comes through into a dish in which it can spread and lie a quarter of an inch deep. If set over ice this will soon be- come firm, and can then be stamped out into rounds with an inch and a half cutter; arrange these for the present on a flat dish while you melt all the pieces and set the liquid again, stamping it out into little rounds the size of a shilling. Now lay over each larger round a little mould of anchovy cream (see No. 4, Menu ii.), put a little tomato button on the top of each, arrange the little savouries on a flat dish with watercress as a garnish, and serve.MENU XXII. 73 (June.') Truite saumon^e a la gel6e. Pigeons farcis aux petits pois. Omelette sucree aux fraises. Cremes d'artichauts aux anchois. i. Choose a small salmon trout about a pound or a pound and a half in weight, poach very gently in good fish broth and chablis (two-thirds of the former to one of the latter) until Salmon trottt tender, putting in with it a small bunch Wltl]dly- of tarragon and seasoning. When it is clone, strain off the broth, and when free from moisture lay the fish on a flat silver dish. When the broth is cold, pass it through a fine tamis into a clean stewpan, and for three gills put into it three-quarters of an ounce of soaked gelatine, and the whites of two eggs well beaten; set over the fire, and stir the whole with a wire whisk till it boils, then take off the stewpan, and let the liquid cool for ten minutes. After this pour it through a well-rinsed piece of flannel. Pour it back, and strain it again until it is quite clear ; a slight colour may be given by putting a saltspoon'ful of Liebig's extract into the liquid at the time of the clarifying. Pour the greater part of this out into a dish or pan to the depth of three-eighths of an inch, put the rest in a bowl, and as it begins to set brush74 FIFTY LUNCHES. over upper side of the fish with it so that it may glisten. When the flat piece of jelly has formed cut a number of triangular pieces out of it, garnish round the fish with them, leaving a space between each for a similarly sized triangle or round of solidified tomato (see No. 4 in the last Menu). Chop up the remnants of the jelly, put a little of it over the fish and the rest in the dish round it ; hard-boiled eggs, turned olives, sliced gherkins, and mixed salading will complete the adjuncts ; mayonnaise sauce should accompany. 2. Make a stuffing with three ounces of bread crumb soaked in stock or milk, one ounce of cooked fat bacon cut into very small pieces, the Pigeons livers of the pigeons and one chicken's farcts with . , green peas, hver minced, two ounces of chopped mushroom, a dessert-spoonful of minced garden herbs, or a teaspoonful of powdered dried herbs, pepper, salt, and one well-beaten egg, mix well, and with this fill the cavities of three nice Bor- deaux pigeons, bard them with bacon, wrap them in buttered paper, and roast briskly for fifteen minutes, basting with melted butter, and removing the cover- ing during the last five. Cut each bird in half with a sharp knife, and lay the halves on crisply fried croides of bread ; garnish with watercress, and serve with clear gravy and bread sauce, a dish of marrow- fat peas accompanying. 3. Choose twenty of the best strawberries out of a small basket, see that they are clean, pick, and cut them into four pieces each, marinade these piecesLITTLE ARTICHOKE CREAMS WITH ANCHOVIES. 75 in a soup plate with a liqueur-glass of maraschino, squeeze half a lemon over them, and dust them over with finely sifted sugar. With all the remaining strawberries make a puree, Swcct omc- flavouring it with maraschino, sweetening Strawberries. it in the same way and passing it through the hair sieve. Make an omelette sucree of four eggs as explained in the Appendix, and just when it is ready to serve, spread the marinaded strawberries over the surface, turn it over and dish it, dust it over with sugar, and pour the puree round it; serve at once. 4. Boil four good-sized artichokes ; let them get cold ; then detach the leaves one by one, and with a silver dessert-knife scrape the fleshy part of each into a soup plate, pick the chokes artichoke out of the bottoms and add the latter creams with to the scraped pulp. Bruise all with a a1lchovies- silver fork, and mix this with a gill and a half of savoury custard ; finish as described for the asparagus creams (No. 4, Menu xix.), serving pure cream as a sauce with the little moulds, and decorating each with two little fillets of anchovy laid crosswise over their tops.MENU XXIII. 76 (June.') (Eufs brouilles aux legumes Kari de poulet au riz. Pouding de bananes aux fraises. Canap6s a la Moscovite. i. The vegetables for this—a macedoine—should be in some variety, young, and separately cooked ; the carrots, turnips, and French beans should e&sZith be cut into S(luares> the asparagus in little vegetables, pieces the size of the peas. Blanch the three former in boiling salted water for five minutes, empty them upon a sieve, drain, and put them into a buttered saute-pan with a gill of water, season them with salt, a pinch of sugar and pepper; cover and simmer them very gently over a low fire, moving them about occasionally to insure even cooking. Assuming that you have a heaped-up tablespoonful of each variety, you must have half a pint of white sauce ready in a stewpan, and as soon as the vegetables have been simmered sufficiently put them into it, with an equal measure each of cooked peas and cut-up asparagus. Mix two yolks of egg with a coffee-cupful of the sauce and stir it gently into the stewpan ; bring nearly to the boil, watching the vessel carefully, then turn out the vegetables and their sauce upon a hot Icgumicre,BANANA PUDDING WITH STRAWBERRIES. 77 covering the surface over with a canopy of buttered eggs made at the moment (see No. 1, Menu hi.), and shaking a fine layer of grated Parmesan over it just before serving. , 2. For very full directions for curry-making please see the Appendix. We are still very far from being able to obtain anything worthy of the name in London from any public source, Chicken notwithstanding advertisements to the ri^?™* contrary. A stew slightly flavoured with curry powder is not a curry—it is a stew spoilt by ignorance. The recipe for boiling rice will be found in Menu i. 3. Choose four ripe bananas, peel them, scrape off any fibre that may adhere to them, slice them in halves longitudinally, cross-cut the halves and divide each quarter thus obtained in fuddi!ig two, lengthwise. Lay these pieces out on with a dish and marinade them with a liqueur- strawbcrries- glass of maraschino, the juice of half a lemon and a dusting of sifted sugar. Turn them about occasion- ally. While they are resting, turn half a pint of milk to a custard with four whole eggs, sweetening with two ounces of sugar, and straining it when made through a hair sieve. Take a pint border-mould, butter it well and line it with buttered paper, lay in it the slices of banana crosswise, leaving spaces for the custard to filter through ; when packed pour in the custard, leaving half an inch for rising, and set the mould to steam very gently till set. Let it get cold78 FIFTY LUNCHES. in the mould, then turn it out ; fill the centre with carefully chosen strawberries, pour a gill of straw- berry syrup flavoured with maraschino over all, and send round pure cream as a sauce. 4. Out of stale bread stamp half a dozen two and a quarter inch rounds a quarter-inch thick ; fry them a golden yellow in butter, drain, and canafes. dry them. When quite cold butter them and spread a layer of fresh caviar over them, mask the surfaces of the canapes completely with mayonnaise sauce as cold as possible, and serve on a flat dish garnished with watercress. To prepare the caviar, a few drops of lemon-juice and a sprink- ling of Nepaul pepper are alone necessary.MENU XXIV. 79 (June.') Cotelettes de saumon a la p^cheur. Ragout d'agneau au riz. Spaghetti foui-re" aux champignons. Creme a l'ambassadrice. i. Weigh, after removing the skin and bones, eight ounces of cooked salmon, three ounces of bread panada, and three ounces of butter ; bruise the fish and pound it in a mortar with the Salmon panada, the butter, and the yolk of one pj§££ la e§g ! Pass this through a hair sieve into a bowl; now season the puree with salt, pepper, and a pinch of mace, add two whole eggs and a table- spoonful of cream or good white sauce ; butter a dozen cutlet-moulds, and fill them with the mixture, tapping them on the table to shake it well home, and smoothing the surfaces with a palette-knife dipped in hot water. Lay the cutlets in a wide sawfe'-pan or baking-dish upon folded paper, pour boiling water round them to a little less than half their depth, push the pan into the oven, and simmer gently there until they are cooked firmly. Take them out then, let them get cold, when turn them out of their moulds, lay them on a flat dish over ice, mask them with white chaud-froid glaze tinted pink with lobster80 FIFTY LUNCHES. coral, and, when set, release them, trimming off the glaze which has escaped over the edges, and dish in a circle round a block of fried bread, garnished with parsley, filling round the outside space with broken jelly, hard-boiled eggs, and boutons rouges made as described for No. 4, Menu xxi. White chaud-froid glaze :—Make a savoury custard with half a pint of chicken broth for meat, of fish broth or milk for fish, with three yolks, White strain, stir in two tablespoonfuls of aspic chaud-froul „ , , T, glaze, ]eny melted, stir well, cool, and use. If no jelly be available this is a simple make- shift :—Boil two ounces of chopped mushroom in half a pint of milk, mix in a quarter ounce of soaked gelatine, strain off carefully, and stir in the yolk of an egg. Use light-coloured mushrooms, scraping off the dark gills to avoid colouring the sauce. 2. This can be made of neck cutlets or a shoulder boned and cut into neat fillets, a broth being made of the bones and trimmings at once. The ™i limb with ra^°"i must be kePt (luite wnite- Having yicc_ trimmed the meat, proceed to blanch it by plunging it into boiling water for three minutes. Take it out, put it upon a wire sieve, and let a douche of cold water pass over it from the tap. Have ready in a deep-sided saute or fricandeau-pan a bed of minced turnips, onions, and celery (four ounces of the first and two of the last) and a muslin bag containing a teaspoonful of dried herbs, lay the meat upon this bed and moisten all with the muttonSPAGHETTI WITH MUSHROOMS. 81 broth freed from fat, and milk in half-and-half pro- portions in quantity sufficient to cover well. Keep the pan over a low fire, never allowing the liquid to boil on any account, but simmering very gently, the surface covered with a sheet of paper, until the meat is three-parts done. Now take out the meat and muslin bag and pass the vegetables and the broth through a hair sieve, and, having mixed a mux in the washed-out pan with half an ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour, stir in by degrees the puree obtained from the vegetables and broth ; bring to the boil, and if too thick add enough broth or milk to correct the mistake ; re- duce the heat under the pan, and put back the meat with three dozen balls of turnip, scooped out of fresh turnips, about the size of large playing marbles; continue the simmering until the meat and the turnip-balls are tender, then dish the ragout in this way :—Lay a circle of riz tomate (see No. 2, Menu iv.) round the edge of a hot silver dish,' shaping it neatly with a wooden spoon ; arrange the meat in the centre of it, straining over it just enough of the sauce to mask it nicely, lay the turnips like a necklace all round the edge of the meat near the rice, and having given it enrichment with the yolk of an egg, send the rest of the sauce in in a boat. 3- Peel and cut off the stalks of half a pound of mushrooms, wash the peelings and chop them up with the stalks, boiling them up Spaghetti m half a pint of milk. Strain when the mmh' latter is flavoured, and thicken the milk ,W'"S" cooking therein the mushrooms themselves, cut 7FIFTY LUNCHES. 82 into largish squares, and seasoning with salt and pepper. Keep this hot in the bain-marie while you boil and strain four ounces of spaghetti, stirring into it at once, while hot, an ounce of butter and two of grated Parmesan. With this line a buttered pie-dish or fireproof china legumiere, leaving a hollow in the centre, into which put the mushrooms, covering the surface with the remaining spaghetti ; smooth over the surface, dust it over with grated Parmesan, dot it over with bits of butter, and push into the oven till thoroughly hot and the surface has taken colour. Serve on a neatly folded napkin. 4. Put into a stewpan three gills of milk, three ounces of sifted sugar, and the zest of a lemon; set on the fire, bring to the boil, stirring in three- dres™Sa~ quarters °f an ounce of soaked gelatine ; pudding. cool a little and empty the milk into a basin in which six yolks of eggs, freed from whites, have been broken, place the bowl over a pan containing boiling water, and custardise its contents, stirring gently during the process, pass this through a hair sieve, and as it cools flavour it with a liqueur- glass of kirsch and whip it to a froth, passing in by degrees as you do so a gill of stiffly whipped cream. Next set in ice a plain charlotte-mould (pint and a half) ; having lined it with wetted paper, lay over the bottom of it a layer of ripe strawberries that have been marinaded with kirsch, pour in enough of the cream to set them, then arrange another layer, setting that, and continuing the operation until the mould is packed. When firm, dip the mould in a basin of hot83 AMBASSADRESS' PUDDING. water, wipe the bottom of it with a clean dry cloth, and turn out the pudding, setting it on a glass dish, and masking it with a rich strawberry syrup flavoured with kirsch and lemon-juice.MENU XXV. 84 (July.-) Filets de sole a la Bercy. C6telettes d'agneau a la Murillo. Petits pois a la O^cile. Croustades a la Sibylle. i. It is essential for this dish that there should be a pint and a half of very strong fish broth to work upon as a basis. Make this, then, as de- Filletsof sole scribed for No. i, Menu ii.,but moistening a la Bercy. . . ' ' b with a pint and a half of water, and using two pennyworth of white fish-cuttings. Strain and keep this ready. Order a sole weighing a pound to be filleted in plain fillets, not rolled, and all the bones, skin, and head sent in with it; put the latter into the fish broth with a gill of chablis, sauterne, or hock, and boil and simmer to extract all the flavour. Now choose a ten-inch saute-pan with an upright rim, scatter over it a finely minced shallot (half an ounce) and an ounce of minced mushroom, lay the fillets of sole on this, and moisten them with sufficient of the broth to cover them, boiling; put the pan over a low fire to simmer slowly after this for twelve or fourteen minutes, according to the thickness of the fish ; take out the fillets with a slice when they'are done and lay them side by side on a hot fireproof dish, cover-85 GREEN PEAS A LA CECILE. ing them with a hot cloth. Strain off the broth in which they were cooked, add the remainder of the broth which was not used, and pass the whole gradually into a stewpan having a roux ready at the bottom of it made of an ounce of butter and an ounce of flour ; mix and then boil fast, and stirring continually until it is reduced to the consistency of thickish batter ; when thus reduced, stir in the juice of half a lemon and an ounce of butter, mask the fillets with it, push them into the oven for five minutes, garnish with parsley and lemon, and serve. 2. Roast the best end of a neck of lamb, having it clone half an hour before the time required ; slice it up at once into cutlets, brush these over on one side with melted glaze, and cover ^mub cutlets ct lei fliHTtil0 that with a fine mince of ham and olives, diluted with thick brown sauce to the consistency of jam, shake a layer of grated Parmesan over that and cover with finely sifted raspings, lay all in a saute- or baking-pan, moistened with melted glaze, push this into the oven, baste once with melted butter, and when hot and lightly coloured dish on a flat silver dish garnished with watercress, sauce Milanaise (No. 3, Menu xxvi) accompanying. 3. Procure half a peck of fresh young peas ; shell them ; put the peas into a bowl covered up ; wash the pods, and slice them up into shreds ; put these into a stewpan with three sprigs Green peas of mint and moisten with just sufficient " la C6fle' hot water to cover them, put in a dessert-spoonful ofW) FIFTY LUNCHES. sugar and one of salt. Boil up, and simmer for an hour, straining the liquid away from the pods. Into that, when boiling in another vessel, put the peas, and boil fast until they are done ; strain and leave the peas on the sieve while, with half an ounce of butter and half one of flour, you make a roux ; moisten this with half a pint of the broth in which the peas were cooked, bring to the boil, strain through a hair sieve, put in the peas, warm them up gently, finishing the sauce with a tablespoonful of cream. Serve in a hot Ugumiere with sippets of fried bread, or biscuits cut out of paste, made in the manner described for No. 4, Menu vi. 4. Make nine little shallow cases of the paste just mentioned rolled out thinly and laid in buttered patty-pans, the hollows filled with raw ?a°SibyUcSh rice' and the Patties baked in a moderate oven. When done, let them get cold, and shake out the rice. Make a rather coarse mince with two chopped hard-boiled eggs, six fillets of anchovies, two tablespoonfuls of cooked mushroom, and one pickled gherkin ; stir in after seasoning just sufficient cream to moisten the mixture slightly, and fill the croustades, trimming the mince in a dome ; sprinkle over with grated ham, and dish the croustades on a flat dish with a cucumber salad in the centre, and garden cress lightly shaken over all.MENU XXVI. 87 (July.) Pate" de saumon froid. Cailles a la financiere. Fonda d'artichauts a la Milanaise. Compote d'abricots au kirsch. i. Take for a seven-inch oval raised pie-mould one pound and a half of uncooked salmon ; also procure a fresh haddock or whitings enough to yield half a pound of flesh " ^'e' without bone. Trim the salmon, freed from skin and bone, in small fillets, and put them on a dish, seasoning them with pepper and salt. With the whiting or haddock flesh make a forcemeat exactly as explained for the creams in No. i, Menu ii., taking for eight ounces of fish three each of panada and butter. With the bones in like manner make a broth moistening with water and a sherry-glass of chablis instead of milk. When the forcemeat is ready, line the mould, after buttering it well, with raised pie paste rolled out three-eighths of an inch thick. Having pressed this well into the mould, spread over the bottom and sides a good casing of the forcemeat, leaving a hollow in the centre ; fill this with the salmon, packing it closely, and finish it at the top with more forcemeat. Lay on a cover of puff paste, with a small hole for the escape of gas generated in88 FIFTY LUNCHES. the cooking; cover with buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour and a half. Mean- while strain, skim, and reduce the fish broth till you have about a gill and a half of strong essence. When the pie is baked take it out of the oven, and after a quarter of an hour pour in through the hole in the top the reduced fish broth. Let it get quite cold all night in the larder—over ice if the weather be hot— and remove the mould just before serving. A new potato salad would be a nice accompaniment. After New potato b°1il1ing fCC thC POtat06S' let them §et salad. cold> and arrange them in a salad bowl, lubricate with best salad oil drop by drop until the potatoes glisten, now shake over them a fine mince of. chervil, chives, and tarragon, finishing with a few drops only of the best French vinegar. 2. Braise six quails in a stewpan, covering them with thin slices of fat bacon, and pouring round them Quails d la tw° gills of really g°od broth and one of ftnanciere. chablis or sauterne. Cover the pan, and put it in the oven, let its contents simmer very gently, basting every now and then, till the birds are done, then strain off the broth, turning it to a sauce with a mux made ready beforehand in another stewpan, and adding another gill of broth ; tint a nice brown with caramel, skim, and finish with a claret-glassful of chablis that has been boiled down to half that quantity ; pass this now through a hair sieve, rinse out the stewpan, put back the quails and the contents of a bottle of financicre garnish, and heat all together gently. Prepare a89 COMPOTE OF GREEN APRICOTS. border of pounded rice, lay this on a hot silver dish, brush over its surface with melted glaze, fill its centre with the financiere garnish, and lay the quails half on the border and half on the garnish, legs inwards ; pour the sauce over the centre, and serve. 3. Trim neatly, blanch, and simmer in broth six artichoke bottoms, preparing the following sauce while they are cooking :—Put half an r, , . * Artichoke ounce of butter into a stewpan over bottoms with a low fire, melt, and add two ounces of Milanaise finely minced onion, fry very gently till muce- soft without colouring, stir in half an ounce of flour, and then moisten by degrees with half a pint of milk ; bring to the boil, simmer fifteen minutes, adding seasoning and a heaped tablespoonful of grated Parmesan ; pass all through a hair sieve, and finish with a tablespoonful of cream. Dish the artichoke bottoms on a legumiere, and pour the sauce over them. 4. Trim a pound of young apricots in halves, re- moving the stones and peeling off the skin. Dust finely sifted sugar over them. Make a syrup as fol- lows :—Put six ounces of sugar into three- quarters of a pint of water with two Compote of tablespoonfuls of apricot jam, the finely %™n apH' peeled rind of a lemon and its juice ; boil up, simmer five minutes, skim and strain ; put the apricots into this and stew them very gently about twenty minutes till they are tender ; let them get cold and then add a sherry-glass of kirsch, and serve in a glass dish with whipped cream.MENU XXVII. 90 Sole au beurre vert. Cotelettes de volaille a la Villeroy. Haricots verts soubis^s. P6cb.es aux macarons. i. Make an incision along the backbone on the upper side of a sole up to within an inch of the head Sole with at the tail at the other» Pass green butter. a smau sharp knife under the flesh on either side of the incision, loosening it from the bone. This having been done, dry the sole, dusting a little flour over it to take up any moisture, then turn it over on a dish containing an egg beaten up with a dessert-spoonful of salad oil, drain, and then lay it on a cloth on which a layer of finely sifted, pounded, oven-dried crumbs has been spread. Turn it, and see that the crumbing is evenly laid. Let it dry, and repeat the egging and crumbing again. Let the second coat dry, shake off super- fluous crumbs, and then prepare a bath of boil- ing fat and lay the sole in it, the incised side uppermost; under the influence of the very hot fat the two edges of the cut side will curl outwards, leaving a hollow space between them. When the desired golden tint has been attained, lift the fish, drain and dry it on a wire drainer, dish it on a hotCHICKEN CUTLETS A LA VILLEROY. 91 dish lined with paper, pouring into the cavity formed by the curled flesh an ounce of melted green butter. Garnish with lemon and parsley, and serve. 2. With six ounces of cold cooked chicken and two of foie gras make nine or a dozen cutlets, following the recipe give in No. 1, Menu xxiv., in so far as the other component parts of the Chicken ... , . , cutlets a la mixture and the cooking are concerned, villeroy. Let them get cold, then turn them out, and glaze them with white chicken chaud-froid glaze, using in this case a broth made from the bones and trimmings of the chicken, with which three ounces of mushrooms have been simmered. Finish the cutlets, and dish them in the same way, introducing between each of them a round fillet of cold cooked tongue stamped out with a cutter. 3. French beans, if young, should only have their ends pinched off ; the practice of shredding them is an erroneous one, for it deprives the vegetable of of half its flavour. Plunge the beans, say a quart measure of them, into boiling salted water in a non- tinned vessel. As soon as tender drain them, put them back into the hot, dry vessel in which they were cooked with an ounce of butter cut into little pieces, turn them with a fork over a low Are as this melts and they dry nicely, finally moistening with two gills of well-made soubise sauce, to obtain which follow the recipe given for sauce Milanaise, omitting the cheese, but adding the cream in the same way. Serve very hot in a Vegumihre with biscuits, as given for the peas in Menu xxv.92 FIFTY LUNCHES. 4. Choose peaches for this that have fallen prema- turely from the tree ; six will make a nice dish. Prepare them in the manner described for the apricots in Menu xxvi., making, as in that case, a strong syrup with apricot jam to strengthen it, and any nice liqueur to flavour. Tipsify a dozen maca- roons with the same liqueur, arrange them in the centre of a glass compote-dish, put the half peaches in a circle round them, pour in the syrup, and serve with pure cream as a sauce.MENU XXVIII. (July.) CEufs poch^s a la Lyonnaise. Rognons de veau au vin blanc. Pouding; a l'ananas. Tomates farcis a la Trouville. 1. Six good-sized artichoke bottoms being ready- hot, cooked as described for No. 3, Menu xxvi.—lay a poached egg on the surface of each, trim- ming off the edges of the whites with a Poached round cutter so that the egg may rest f^L. neatly on the fond, mask over with a sharp sauce made as follows :—Put a teaspoonful of finely minced shallot into a stewpan, moisten with a gill of the best vinegar, boil over a quick fire until only a tablespoonful remains. Keep this at hand. Take half a pint of thickly reduced brown sauce, add to it two fillets of anchovy freed from oil, stir in the reduced vinegar, boil, skim, and pass the sauce through a hair sieve, heat up again, and pour over the eggs as already mentioned ; serve on a flat silver dish, garnished with sippets of fried bread. 2. Skin and cut into slices the thickness of a penny piece two veal kidneys. Put into a deep sa^'-pan or fncandeau-pan an ounce and a half of Tr butter, melt it over a low fire, and add SSf * two tablespoonfuls of minced onion ; fry wine-94 FIFTY LUNCHES. for two or three minutes, and then put in the sliced kidneys, increase the heat, and fry quickly till these are seized, then remove the pan, take out the pieces of kidney and lay them on a dish. Next mix in with the onions and butter left in the pan an ounce of flour, place this over alow fire, and when thoroughly blended add two gills and a half of good broth and a gill and a half of white wine (chablis or sauterne), a bouquet garni, and stalks and peelings of two ounces of mushroom minced ; bring slowly to the boil, skim, and simmer a quarter of an hour, then strain ; lay the kidneys in the rinsed-out saute-pan, moisten with the sauce, put in the peeled mush- rooms, heat up gently, simmering very slowly till the kidney slices are tender, and then serve as a ragout within a border of rice or mashed potato. 3. Preserved pineapple will do for this pudding. Cut the fruit into slices a quarter of an inch thick, then remove the eyes and any tough part pudding there may be, cutting the slices thus trimmed into fillets the width of your first finger. Put all the trimmings and the syrup strained from the fruit into a small saucepan, with a table- spoonful of apricot jam, the zest and juice of a lemon, and a sherry-glass of rum ; boil up, and strain. This will be the sauce to accompany the pudding, hot or cold as you may desire. During this operation mari- nade the fillets with rum—a liqueur-glass sprinkled over them, with a dust of sifted sugar, is enough. Butter a plain pint and a half charlotte-mould, line it with paper, and butter that too. Arrange a pattern,STUFFED TOMATOES A LA TROUVILLE. 95 if you like, for the top and walls of the pudding with strips of the fruit and rows of crystallised cherries cut in halves, then pack the hollow of the mould with the pineapple fillets, laying them crosswise, with little spaces between them, through which the custard must presently filter. This should be made of half a pint of milk, a gill of cream, and five whole eggs, with an ounce and a half of sugar and the zest of a lemon. When ready pour the custard in by degrees, leaving about an inch of the mould free to allow for the rising. Steam the pudding very gently, and when firm turn it out, pouring the syrup over it. If required cold, let it get cold in the mould over ice, set the syrup in ice, and having turned the pudding out pour the cold syrup over it, and have whipped cream served on a separate dish. 4. Choose six ripe tomatoes of good colour and of a like size; slice off the stalk ends parallel with the width of the tomato, and with a teaspoon scoop out the inside carefully, thus forming a cup; set these aside over ice while you empty all the scooped-out part and sliced ends into a stewpan with a teaspoonful of minced onion and half an Stuffed ounce of butter. Stew this gently till soft, tZuvM? ** and then pass the tomatoes through the hair sieve, return the puree to the stewpan and bring it to the boil, reducing until it coats the spoon like jam, stirring continually during the operation. Set a basin on ice, and whip a gill and a half of cream in it till stiff, passing into it the tomato pulp, one granulatedg6 FIFTY LUNCHES. hard-boiled egg, and six fillets of anchovies cut into little pieces. Fill the cases with this ; dust grated Parmesan over them, and serve on a flat dish, gar- nished with watercress or salading.MENU XXIX. 8 97 (August.) Omelette fourree au homard. Escalopes de veau a la Contadina. Feves de marais a la poulette. Creme pochee au gingembre. 1. Take all the flesh from a small lobster or half a medium-sized one, from four to six ounces being enough. Of this make a mince, rather small than otherwise, put a gill of good ^^[te white sauce into a stewpan, stir in the mince, heat gently over a low fire without boiling, season with salt, Nepaul pepper, and mace, and finish with a dessert-spoonful of cream. Make an omelette of .five eggs, as explained for savoury omelette in the Appendix, and just before turning it out of the pan quickly spread the lobster mince over the surface, dishing immediately ; scatter finely minced parsley over the surface, and serve. 2. This may be made of cold cooked veal or of uncooked, the only difference in the operation being that the escalopes, neatly cut in small rounds or ovals, should in the former Escalopes oj case be merely gently heated up in the Cott^na sauce, and in the latter stewed equally gently in it—boiling in both instances being studiously avoided. Make the sauce in this way :—Melt an98 FIFTY LUNCHES. ounce of the best fresh butter in a stewpan over a low fire, stir into it one tablespoonful of finely minced onion, six ounces of tomatoes cut up, a saltspoonful of powdered rosemary, and a seasoning of black pepper and salt; fry together gently for ten minutes, then mix in half an ounce of flour ; work this well till blended, and then moisten with two gills of broth and one of chablis or sauterne ; bring to the boil, skim, simmer for ten minutes, and pass all through a hair sieve ; now return the sauce to the rinsed-out pan, put in the meat, and either stew or gently warm it as the case may be. Serve as a ragout inside a circle of spaghetti that has been boiled, drained, moistened with melted butter, and dusted over with grated Parmesan. A sprinkling of finely minced olives should be scattered over the surface of the ragout. 3. If broad beans be very young, not more than three parts grown, they need not be de- Broad prived of their skins, but if at all old thev beans a la , ,, , ,,. ,' , , J poulette. must after shelling be plunged into boil- ing salt and water until just tender, when their skins can be peeled off. As this is carried out they should be cast into a bowl of cold water, then drained. Have ready a poulette sauce made as follows :—Put half an ounce of butter into a stewpan over a low fire, melt, and stir in half an ounce of flour, moisten with half a pint of milk, bring to the boil, and pass through a pointed strainer into another stewpan, add two yolks of egg that have been mixed with half a gill of cream, season with salt and white pepper, and put in the beans ; heat up gently in theBROAD BEANS A LA POULETTE. 99 bain-marie for fear of the egg curdling, and serve in a legumiere, with the biscuits mentioned for No. 4, Menu vi. Scatter finely minced chervil over the surface of the beans to finish with. 4. For a pint and a half mould take two and a half gills of milk, three whole eggs and two yolks, two tablespoonfuls of ginger syrup, and the zest of a lemon or orange. Boil the milk, and as it cools beat the syrup and eggs together in a bowl, then add the milk and zest and turn the mixture to a custard over another vessel containing boiling water. Butter a plain charlotte-mould, line it with buttered paper, ornament the top with a pattern cut out of preserved ginger, and make a fine mince of all the trimmings and as much more of the preserve as may be required to yield four tablespoonfuls. Stir this into the custard, fill the mould with the latter and steam it gently until firm—about forty-five to fifty minutes—then turn out and serve with a syrup flavoured with ginger and lemon-juice. Equally nice cold with a cold syrup.MENU XXX. (August.) GEufs aux crevettes a la Cingalese. Salmis froid de "grouse." Macaroni fourre\ Fruits frapp6s au champagne. 1. Having made three gills of Ceylon curry sauce as described for No. 2, Menu i., and strained Eggs with itj put into it with the cream and lemon SllVllllVS CI Id Cingalese. nali a pint of picked shrimps, warm up gently, and having arranged six poached eggs on hot toasts on a hot silver dish, pour the sauce over them and serve. 2. For this take all the meat from a cold grouse in as neat pieces as possible, dust them over with flour, and put them aside ; while with the Cold salmis crusne{i bones, skin, and trimmings, of grouse. ' ' ° ' moistened with three gills of good broth, you make as good a grouse essence as you can in the manner described for the hare broth in No. 1, Menu i. ; turn this to a sauce, as in the case of sauce a la Gogue, adding a quarter of an ounce of soaked gelatine during the process. Strain this through a hair sieve, and as it cools and begins to thicken, set a dish on ice, and with a trussing needle plunge eachFRUITS ICED WITH CHAMPAGNE. 101 piece of grouse into the sauce, coating it well j lay these in a mound in the centre of the cold dish, reserving the best-looking ones for the outside ; keep it in an ice closet, or in a vessel with ice round it, and when required take it out, surround the mound with broken aspic, and hard-boiled eggs in quarters. A salad made of fonds d'artichauts in the manner given for orange salad, kept as cold as possible, might accompany. 3. This is a handy way of disposing of nice remains, such as cold sweetbread, chicken or tur- key's liver, foie gras, &c. Make as good an assortment as you can with cooked with™™ mushroom, tongue, ham, and any of the savoury things first named, all cut into a coarse mince- mince. Having prepared six tablespoonfuls of such a salpicon, put it into a stewpan, moisten it with a gill and a half of good brown sauce, and heat it gently up without boiling. Boil and prepare four ounces of macaroni, and finish the dish like spag- hetti fourre aux champignons in Menu xxiv. 4- Select three or four varieties of fruit; pine- apple, peaches, apricots, bananas, &c, in quantity sufficient for the party. With a silver knife trim the fruit in nice pieces, and put them in a china bowl over ice ; make half a pint Fruits of apricot syrup flavoured with lemon S« , and a glass of old brandy, and with it moisten the fruit as you do salad with dressing, turning it over with a wooden spoon and forkFIFTY LUNCHES. 102 Owing to the cold the syrup will by degrees coat the fruit. Let it rest over the ice till wanted, and at the last pour over it a pint of iced champagne, serving at once.MENU XXXI. 103 (August") CEufs brouilles a la chasseuse. Cdtelettes de mouton a la Verdi. Gateau glace a la creme. Fonds d'artichauts a la Russe. i. Take the remains from a brace of cold grouse, from four to six ounces enough, free this from skin and sinew and pass it through a mincing machine; with the bones, skin, &c, make Buttered a strong broth as explained for the hare fam7.tH cutlets in Menu i. Thicken and reduce this; as soon as it is ready put in the mince (the con- sistency being about as thick as jam) and heat it gently in the bain-marie. Have ready six well-fried croutes of bread three inches long, two broad, and a quarter thick ; keep them hot in the mouth of the oven. Make now ceufs brouilles (see No. i, Menu iii.) with five eggs and three ounces of butter, and the moment they are ready spread the croutes over with the grouse mince ; arrange them on a hot silver dish, mask them with the buttered eggs, scatter finely grated ham over all, and serve. Everything depends upon the excellence of the essence produced from the game bones and the rapidity of serving the moment the buttered eggs are done. Practicable with any kind of game.FIFTY LUNCHES. 2. Turn to Menu xxv., and having read the recipe for colclclles a la Murillo, proceed in the same manner with a best end of neck of mutton, having cHUcts'a la chosen one fl"om a small sheep free from Verdi. excess of fat. Roast the neck as there explained, divide it into cutlets as soon as it is done, lay them on a well-buttered paper in a buttered baking-tin, and mask their upper sides with thicky reduced Milanaise sauce (No. 3, Menu xxvi.), push into the oven for two or three minutes to heat gently, then take them out with a slice and arrange them on a hot flat dish surrounded with Hz tomate, No- 2, Menu iv. 3. Work to a cream in a bowl four ounces of butter, add two ounces of sugar and the zest of a lemon; work ten minutes, stir in the volks Lrlazed cake „ r -. , ,, J. with cream. 01 inree eggs, and wlien smooth tour ounces of well-sifted flour, passing it in by degrees, and mixing with it, flake by flake, the whipped whites of three eggs ; flavour with vanilla. With a brush butter a circular border-mould well, let this get cold, and then dust over it half an ounce of glazing sugar mixed with half an ounce of Groult's feciile de pommes tie terre, pour in the cake mixture, filling the mould two-thirds of its depth only ; set the mould on a baking-tin, and bake in a slow oven for forty minutes ; turn the cake out on a wire drainer, and when cold set it on a silver or china dish, filling the centre with whipped cream with which raspberry or strawberry syrup has been blended. If liked this may be served hot. Fill theARTICHOKE BOTTOMS A LA RUSSE. hollow with peaches or apricots heated in syrup flayoured with rum, and dust finely sifted sugar over all. 4. Spread over the hollows of six artichoke bottoms which have been cooked and laid on a dish over ice, a layer of fresh caviar prepared with a squeeze of lemon-juice and a dust of Artichoke Nepaul pepper ; mask over with mayon- R°Usse.S U ^ naise sauce; let the fonds thus prepared get very cold, and then dish in a circle on oroides specially made of the paste given in Menu vi., No. 4.MENU XXXII. 106 (August.) Salade de crabe. Poulet a la Parmentier. Epinards a la cxbme soubisee. Figues glacis au Mrscb. i. Have a medium-sized crab sent in untouched by the fishmonger. Dress it yourself as follows :— Crab salad. ^ Z^ Pid< OUt a11 the meat of the claws and the breastplate, shred it, put one-third of this on one side, and mix with the other two-thirds in a bowl the liver and cream of the back, dressing it with this sauce :—Put a dessert-spoonful of powdered mustard into a bowl with a saltspoonful of salt, a pinch of white pepper, a teaspoonful of minced chives, and the hard-boiled yolks of two eggs ; add a dessert-spoonful of salad oil to these ingredients, bruising them well to a paste with a clean wooden spoon ; next throw in the yolk of a raw egg, and work vigorously, adding oil in small quantities by degrees till you have a couple of gills of sauce ; finish now with a dessert-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, pass all through a perforated strainer, and keep it in a bowl over ice. With a pint of aspic jelly fill a round border-mould, setting it in layers over ice with hard-boiled egg-yolks, balls of green butter, and turned olives alternated therein.GREEN FIGS GLAZED WITH KIRSCH. 107 Finish by turning out the border, fill the centre with the dressed crab masked with the shredded meat that you saved, garnish over all with a fine lace-work of garden cress, and a ring of golden lettuce-leaves round the outside of the border, the remaining sauce in a boat. 2. Out of six or eight good-sized half-boiled potatoes cut about three dozen rounds or fillets about two inches long, one inch wide, and a quarter thick ; dry them in a cloth, and then put them farmentier. into a stewpan with an ounce of butter over a low fire, and move them about, tossing them occasionally until they are done. Cut up a cold cooked chicken in nice pieces, and prepare it exactly like poulet a la Toscane in Menu v., substituting the potato fillets or rounds for the macaroni. 3. For the preparation of the spinach see No. 2, Menu xvi., but finish with two table- spoonfuls of soubise sauce, and one of spi»cichwith cream. Make the soubise in the way Zubise™* given for sauce Milanaise (No. 3, Menu xxvi.), omitting the cheese. Serve with biscuits made of the paste described for No. 4, Menu vi. 4. Slightly unripe green figs will do for this—a dozen or dozen and a half. Stew them very gently in just sufficient syrup to cover Green figs them, with the juice of a lemon, and a f^ch sherry-glassful of kirsch ; stop when they are tender, then take them out and let them get coldIoy FIFTY LUNCHES. in a china dish over ice. Meanwhile reduce the syrup over the fire, adding two tablespoonfuls of apricot jam to it; when like honey strain it, and when cold begin to baste the figs with it. The cold will cause the glaze to mask the fruit, and when that has been done let the figs remain over ice till wanted, then serve with whipped cream in a separate dish. This may be flavoured with any liqueur, with brandy or with rum.MENU XXXIII. (September.) Anguille a la tortue froide. Lapin brais£ a la Borgh^se. Cr&me a l'Antoinette. Timbales a la Turque. i. Skin, and fillet an eel of about a pound in weight, subdividing the fillets into two-inch lengths. Put the skin and bone, with twopenny- worth of white fish-cuttings, to make a Mould oj pint and a half of good fish broth, using tartate! weak meat or chicken broth for the moistening, three ounces each of onion, carrot, and turnip, and seasoning with sweet herbs, parsley, salt, and mignonette pepper. Skim the scum off carefully, boil up once, and after simmering three- quarters of an hour strain off the broth. Let it get cold, and skim the surface well; now put it into a clean stewpan with a claret-glassful of chablis, bring to the boil, and put the fillets into it; after two minutes draw back and simmer slowly till they are tender, then take them out and lay them on a dish under a weight. Proceed now to reduce to three gills, and then clarify the broth, adding to it half a teaspoonful of Liebig's extract, half an ounce of soaked gelatine, and the whites, slightly whisked, of two eggs. Stir round continually over a fast fire,no FIFTY LUNCHES. working with the whisk, until signs of boiling show themselves, then let the liquid barely simmer for ten minutes, after which it can be strained through a tamis. Pour it back and strain again. Now place a plain pint and a half charlotte-mould in a basin with ice round it, pour in about the eighth of an inch of the liquid to set a pattern, which should be arranged at the bottom of the mould—olives, gherkins, and hard- boiled eggs can be used for this purpose. When set, begin to pack the mould by degrees, setting layer after layer of eel fillets with sliced hard-boiled egg here and there and little squares of anchovy cut from six fillets. When packed and set, let the mould remain in ice till required when serve surrounded with well- selected lettuce leaves and watercress, very cold tartare sauce accompanying, made like the sauce given for the crab No. i, Menu xxxii., but with a garnish added to it of minced chives, chervil, tar- ragon, and gherkin, a teaspoonful of each, except the tarragon, of which half a teaspoonful will be enough. 2. Truss a rabbit as for boiling after stuffing it with this stuffing:—Take the liver, heart, and kidneys of the rabbit, cut them up, and fry them (/aire revenir) in an ounce of butter over a low fire with a table- spoonful each of minced Portugal onion braised a la anc* carrot> anc* a quarter of a pound of Borghese. minced mushrooms. After five minutes' frying moisten with a sherry-glass of chablis or sauterne, and add half an ounce of glaze. Continue to cook slowly, and as soon as the meat is soft let it get cold, and then empty the contents ofin HARE OR RABBIT STUFFING. the saute-pan into a mortar, pounding and passing the whole through a wire sieve. The puree thus obtained, seasoned with salt and pepper, should be stirred into a bowl with the ^aibcb°[ usual three ounces of bread crumb, minced Stuffing. or powdered herbs, zest of lemon, two ounces of butter, and two eggs. Before packing the rabbit with this, line the inside with thin strips of cooked streaky bacon. Line the bottom of a stew- pan with an ounce of butter, and two ounces of uncooked bacon cut into dice ; set the pan on the fire, and melt the butter, lay the rabbit over it, and fry for about seven minutes, turning it to ensure even colouring, then take it out and put it on a dish while you put an ounce and a half of flour into the butter, stir for three minutes, and then moisten with five gills of broth; bring to the boil, skim, and pass through a strainer. Rinse out the pan, put in the rabbit, moisten with the sauce, putting in with it a muslin bag containing a dessert-spoonful of herbs, four ounces of sliced onion, four of carrots, and two of celery. Simmer slowly now for three-quarters of an hour, then add twelve ounces of young turnips cut into neat shapes ; continue the simmering till the turnips are done, then lift the rabbit and place it on a hot dish, arrange the pieces of turnip neatly all round it, skimming and pouring the sauce over it through a strainer ; curls of bacon crisped in the oven may be laid at intervals round the turnip garnish. 3. Custardise two and a half gills of cold parboiled milk sweetened with two ounces of sugar, with four112 FIFTY LUNCH FS. yolks of eggs, adding during the process half an ounce of soaked gelatine and lemon flavouring; when well mixed and smooth pass through a ^Antoinette c^ean nau" sieve mto a bowl, whip, and add a gill of whipped cream. Have a pint and a half mould on ice, arrange a pattern of preserved cherries, which have been marinaded in maraschino, at the bottom of it, set this, and continue setting layers of cherries with the cream till the mould is filled. Keep on ice till required, turn out, and then pour over it a gill and a half of syrup flavoured with a liqueur-glass of maraschino, and the juice of half a lemon, tinted pink with cochineal. 4. Line nine buttered darioles with cold parboiled spaghetti, arranging it with a trussing needle in a coil round the bottom, and in rings round fobstarU°{ the sides' Cnop UP ratlier finely four Turque. ounces of lobster, dilute this with a gill of savoury custard with which a tea- spoonful of curry powder and a tablespoonful of cream have been mixed ; fill the little moulds with this, and steam gently till set, turn them out, and serve with a sauce made as follows :—Melt half an ounce of butter in a stewpan, stir in a teaspoonful of minced shallot ; fry till coloured, add a teaspoonful of curry powder and a large one of rice flour, fry five minutes more, and then moisten with a gill and a half of milk, put in salt and a teaspoonful of grated green ginger ; boil up, strain, add a dessert-spoonful of cream and the juice of half a lemon. The tim- bales and sauce will be very nice cold if preferred in that way.MENU XXXIV. (September'.) Croustades a la poissonniere. Perdreaux a la Suisse. Pur^e de bananes. Cremes de champignons. i. With the paste given for No. 4, Menu vi., line naif a dozen mince pie pans, buttering them well and rolling the paste out about as thick as a penny piece ; prick and fill these Fish with raw rice, bake in a moderate oven croustades- shake out the rice, and turn out the little saucers thus obtained. Have ready six large tablespoonfuls of nice mince of cold turbot, moistened and warmed up with a gill of lobster sauce (or any cold fish with shrimp sauce flavoured with an atom of mace. Keep his hot in the bain-marie, and the saucers hot in mthTA thL°Ven- Wh6n ™****> and not til l TV CESeS WiH be sodden> fiU each with the hot mince, dust freely over with grated Parmesan, and serve on a hot napkin. * 2. It often happens that old partridges have to be deposed of. If this be the case, truss a brace for boiling, filling the cavity 0l Partridges h each bird with a stuffing composed of la Suisse' two ounces of bread crumb, two of chopped par- "3FIFTY LUNCHES. U4 boiled onion, the livers of the birds, an ounce, for each, of chopped mushroom, and one well-beaten egg ; sew up the vents and simmer the birds in broth and milk in half proportions, surrounded with eight ounces of finely sliced onions, two of celery, a muslin bag containing a dessert-spoonful of sweet herbs, pepper, and salt. When done, lift the birds, keep them covered up with a hot cloth in the pan in which they were done, from which the broth and vegetables have been strained off. Pass the onions and celery through a hair sieve, and blend the puree with the broth over a low fire, mixing first half an ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour to effect that object; as the sauce is cooking add a gill of fresh tomato puree, boil up and pass through the sieve again, heating it up afterwards, and finishing with a table- spoonful of cream. Dish the birds, mask them with the sauce, garnish all round with well-boiled rice, and serve. 3. Choose six ripe bananas, peel, scrape off their fibre, and mash them with a silver fork, flavour with a liqueur-glass of maraschino, the juice of a lemon, and a gill of strawberry syrup as sold for ices. Work this well, and pass it all Banana through a hair sieve (that is reserved for *uree' sweet cookery) into a bowl. Make two gills of custard, blending with it two yolks, and half an ounce of gelatine, and sweetening with two ounces of sugar. Pass this through a hair sieve and blend it with the banana puree, adding a gill of whipped cream; pour all into a china compote-dish, which setLITTLE CREAMS OF MUSHROOMS. 115 over ice, cover the surface with whipped cream, and serve. 4. Peel and remove the stalks from half a pound of mushrooms, choosing light-coloured ones ; with a silver spoon scrape out the gills ; cut up the mushrooms, sprinkle them with salt Little creams and lemon-juice, and cover them, while nomt' with the well-washed stalks and trimmings finely minced you flavour a couple of gills of milk, seasoning it with salt and white pepper, then boiling up and simmering for ten minutes. Strain this off, wipe out the pan, put half an ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour into it, mix, add the strained milk and the cut-up mushrooms; boil again and simmer, adding a quarter ounce of gelatine, and stirring carefully ; when the mushrooms are quite soft, empty the contents of the pan upon a hair sieve, pass all through it, add half a gill of whipped cream,' mix well, pour into small darioles, set over ice, and serve garnished with watercress.MENU XXXV. 116 (September.) Maquereau marine aux olives. Hachis de bceuf gratine. Compote de reine Claudes frambois^es. Petits fromages aux anchois. 1. Boil one large or two medium-sized mackerel in a liquid half water and half vinegar; as soon as done take them out, lay them in a deep earthen- Mackcrcl Ware dish, and pour the liquid over them. fillets with — , ' . * ■ -i olives, cold. Let them he in this all night. For lun- cheon take them out, carefully remove the flesh in two fillets, one from either side of the fish, lay these on a dish over ice, mask over their surfaces with mayonnaise sauce garnished with chopped olives, arrange round them a circle of turned olives and cold cooked fillets of cucumber with bunches of water- cress, broken aspic jelly also if available, and serve. 2. Mince up a pound and a half of cold roast beef, freeing it from all sinew and skin. Put this aside while you make a sauce as follows :—Put Ratine ^ into a stewPan an ounce of butter, melt it, and add two tablespoonfuls of minced onion and the same of mushroom ; fry very gently, and add an ounce of flour ; stir it for threeLITTLE CREAM CHEESES WITH ANCHOVY. 117 minutes, and moisten with three gills of stock; boil up, tint a good brown with caramel, simmer for ten minutes, and strain through a perforated strainer into a bowl; now add a tablespoonful of marsala, and stir in the minced beef. Have ready boiled two pounds of potatoes; mash these well, pass through a hair sieve, adding two tablespoon- fuls of grated Parmesan, the yolks of two eggs, an ounce of butter melted, and a tablespoonful of cream with seasoning; out of this form a neat border upon a fireproof china dish, brushing it over with melted butter. Fill the centre of the border with the mince, set it in the oven to brown, and when ready take it out, garnish with grilled mushrooms, and serve. 3. Make a pint of plain syrup, adding to it half a pound of raspberry jam and the juice of a lemon. Set over the lire, and when the jam has dissolved well turn the whole out upon a Greengages hair sieve and pass the syrup through it. %rlfpberry Now put two dozen greengages into a stewpan, cover them with the syrup, and stew gently till done ; then take them out, put them in a glass compote-dish, pour the syrup over them, let this get cold, and smother with whipped cream. 4. Weigh four ounces of finely grated Parmesan or Gruyere, add to it in a bowl a table- spoonful of made mustard, a dessert-spoon- Li^le cream ful of the best French vinegar, six fillets checf$ with c , & > niictb anchovy. of anchovy, and the yolks of three eggs ; work the whole through a hair sieve into a bowl,FIFTY LUNCHES. u8 and add to it a gill of whipped cream. Have ready half a dozen little saucers made like those given for No. i, Menu xxxiv., cold, fill them with the mixture, dust over with Parmesan, and serve.MENU XXXVI. 119 (September.) CEufs durs a la Moscovite. "Hashed venison"—haricots verts soubis^s. Salade des chasseurs. Tourte a l'ananas. i. Pour half a pint of liquid aspic jelly into a flat dish, so that its depth may be about three-eighths of an inch. Let this get firm over ice, and then with an inch and a half round cutter Hard-boiled dipped in hot water cut out ten discs, lifting Moscovite. them and laying them in a circle on a round silver or china dish placed over ice. Chop up the trimmings of the aspic for garnish. Boil five large eggs hard, let them get cold in iced water, shell them, slice off the rounded ends (sufficiently to admit of each half egg sitting upright), and with a very sharp knife cut each egg in half crosswise ; next scoop out the yolks, and set each little cup of white thus formed on a disc of jelly. Pound the five yolks with five fillets of anchovy and an ounce of iced butter, and press this through a wire sieve, so that the puree may come through like vermicelli. Also make a puree with four ounces of picked shrimps moistened with half a gill of hollandaise sauce ; fill the hollows of the eggs with this, pressing it through a forcing pipe. Trim the puree in neat dome shape, and smooth it120 FIFTY LUNCHES. with a palette-knife dipped in hot water ; dress the surfaces of the eggs with the vermicelli made with the yolks, and decorate the dish with the broken aspic, and a lace-like screening of garden cress ^ggs prepared in this way make an excellent garnish round a block of cold fish masked with aspic, and served with cold mayonnaise sauce in a boat. 2. Cut the venison into neat slices, and for a pound of meat see that you have ready three-quarters of Hashed a pint of really stron§ broth- Make a venison, marinade as follows in an earthenware bowl :—Two gills of light claret, in which a dessert-spoonful of red currant jelly has been dissolved, half a gill of good French vinegar, a teaspoonful of minced shallot, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a teaspoonful each of chopped thyme and marjoram, half a saltspoonful of black pepper, and one of salt. Arrange all the slices of venison on a large joint dish, spreading them over its surface, having first carefully trimmed off all skin and gristle ; then pour over them the marinade. Lei them lie in this as long as you can, turning them occasionally. To complete the hash put an ounce of butter into a stewpan, melt and mix in an ounce of flour, and stir over a low fire till lightly browned, then pass in the broth by degrees, and the marinade strained from the meat ; bring to the boil, skim carefully, and continue the boiling, stirring well till the sauce is reduced one-third: cool it somewhat now, and strain it over the slices of venison, which should be laid in another stewpan. Place this overOPEN TART OF PINEAPPLE. 121 very gentle heat till hot enough to serve without boiling, and then keep it in the bain -marie closely covered till required. Hashes and minces are im- proved by being kept at gentle heat in the carefully made sauce. For the haricots verts soubises see Menu xxvii. 3. This is a nice way of using the remains of cold game :—Cut off all the meat you can find and keep it ready. Make as strong an essence with the crushed bones as you can, following ^tsman's the recipe given for the broth in No. I}Saa m Menu i. Assuming that you can get half a pint, blend with it a quarter ounce of diluted gelatine,' and strain this through a hair sieve ; when cold it should be a jelly such as you find in game pies. Dress the meat and jelly broken into convenient pieces in a mound in the centre of a dish, mask it with mayonnaise sauce, garnish round with hard- boiled eggs, turned olives, rolled fillets of anchovy, and cold cooked artichoke bottoms, and serve as cold as possible, with Nepaul pepper and mayonnaise sauce in reserve. If liked, the meat may be set in the jelly in a round basin, and turned out and garnished when required. 4. Line an open tart-tin with puff pastry, filling the hollow in the centre with raw rice; bake in a moderate oven, and when done shake out the rice and let the case get cold ; then fill the °^en tart °f tart with slices of preserved pineapple, ptneafple- moistening with thick golden syrup made as followsFIFTY LUNCHES. 122 Put into the syrup of the pineapple three tablespoon- fuls of apricot jam, a liqueur-glass of rum, the juice of a lemon and a teaspoonful of cornflour ; boil up, strain, and cool; when cold pour over the pineapple slices, and cover the surface with whipped cream, with which an ounce of pounded pistachio nuts may be blended.MENU XXXVII. 123 (October.) Brenie de mer a la Maltaise. Quenelles de gibier frites. Croutes aux p6cb.es. Canapes a la Nantaise. i. Choose a sea-bream weighing about a pound and a half. Take the flesh from each side, thus obtaining two fillets, and subdivide each of them in three pieces. Then proceed ^Maltadse^ with the head and bones to make a broth, moistening with weak stock if available, if not, with water, following in other respects the recipe for the broth given for No. i, Menu xxxiii., and cooking the fillets in the same way. After laying them on the dish as therein described, put another dish over them with the weights of the kitchen scales upon it to press the fillets flat. Next put, for a pint of broth, one ounce of butter into a stewpan, melt it over a low fire, and stir in an ounce and a quarter of flour ; cook the roux till coloured slightly, and then pass in the broth by degrees, adding a few drops of caramel to colour, and one gill of tomato puree or freshly made sauce ; bring to the boil, and skim ; pass all through a hair sieve, rinse out the stewpan, and pour the sauce into it. Release the fillets from pressure, trim them neatly, and, taking them up with a slice, slip them into the sauce, placeI24 FIFTY LUNCHES. the pan over a low fire simply to heat up gently without boiling, and stir in the juice of half a lemon and a dessert-spoonful of minced pickled gherkins. Serve as you would a ragout. 2. The remains of any game will do for this. Assuming that we have six ounces of meat free from Quenelles ofSkin' Sin6W' and b°ne' take two ounces game fried. of fat °* cooked ham and two of bread panada, pound the meat with these in- gredients thoroughly, and pass through a hair sieve ; add two eggs, seasoning, and a tablespoonful of game essence, which should be made from the bones in the manner described for the sauce in No. i, Menu i. Now butter ten quenelle-moulds, fill them with the mixture, tapping each on the table to insure even filling, and poach the quenelles very gently as already described. When firm, remove them from the water, and set them to get cold. After this turn them out, flour them, brush them over with egg, and crumb them as described at page 90. Fry in a deep bath of boiling fat till of a golden colour, then drain, dry, sprinkle with salt, and pile in a pyramid upon a hot napkin, fried parsley for garnish, and a sauce a la Gogue (page 2) accompanying. 3. Out of slices cut from a stale madeira cake stamp neatly nine round croutes two and a half inches in diameter and three-eighths of an inch impeaches. thick ' fl7 them in butter, dust over with sifted sugar, and dry in the oven. Let them get cold and then arrange them in a circle in a flat dish. Next, having drained nine half peaches125 CANAPkS OF SARDINES. (preserved) from their syrup, turn the latter to thick glaze with apricot jam, as given at page 34, flavouring it with madeira. Let this cool, and then mask the peaches with it. Serve very cold ; cream can of course accompany. 4. For this take a dozen sardines from the tin, free them from oil by spreading them out apart on a large joint dish, tipping it up on edge and pouring very hot water gently over the ^rdmes °^ fish ; the water will drain downwards, "WS' carrying the oil with it. After having done this .take up the sardines with a slice, and lay them on a clean, dry cloth. Have ready a dozen pieces of fried bread (cold), a quarter of an inch thick and the length and width of a sardine ; spread butter over each and lay a sardine upon it; mask with cold mayonnaise sauce, sprinkle over with chopped olives. To dish, lift the canapes with a palette-knife and arrange them in a star pattern with a bunch of watercress in the centre and fillets of beetroot between them.MENU XXXVIII. 126 ( October.) Grondin a la Romaiiie. Escalopes de veau a la Marengo. Flamri aux pommes. Petites salades a la Deauville. i. Choose a gurnard about a pound and a half in weight, fillet it, and follow the process recommended for the sea-bream in Menu xxxvii., as far Gurnard a la ^e preparation of the broth is con- Koniaiiic. , cerned, and the cooking of the fish therein. Put the latter under a weight in the same way, and thicken the broth, but without colouring or adding the tomato. Strain the sauce when it is finished. Have ready four ounces of boiled lasagne (ribbon macaroni) cut into two-inch lengths. Butter a fireproof gratin-dish, arrange a layer of the macaroni upon it, dust grated Parmesan over the layer, and having released the fish fillets lay them over it ; dust with Parmesan, and cover with macaroni ; dust again, and pour in by degrees enough of the sauce to moisten well; shake a rather thick layer of cheese over the surface, and dot a number of little bits of butter over it ; push the dish into the oven, and when thoroughly hot and nicely coloured, serve.127 PUREE OF APPLES MOULDED. 2. Out of a slice of the fillet of veal half an inch thick and about a pound and a quarter in weight, trim as many neat pieces as you can about two inches long and an inch and a half Yfal ala 0 Marengo. across; bat them with a cutlet-bat, and put them into an earthenware casserole, with a table- spoonful of salad oil and an ounce of butter, over a low fire ; cook slowly, turning the pieces of meat every now and then so that they may be evenly seized and coloured. When this has been effected, mix in with them a tablespoonful of minced onion, a bouquet garni, and half a pound of sliced tomatoes ; cover the pan closely, and push it into a moderate oven, drawing it to the door of the oven at intervals of a few minutes, and basting the meat with the liquid drawn from it and the tomatoes. Have ready a gill of good brown sauce flavoured with a dessert-spoonful of chablis, and just at the last, when the meat is cooked, stir it into the casserole. Dish as you would dish a ragout, garnished with rolls of fried bacon, and serve with pommes de terre sautees. 3. This must be prepared the evening previously with the freshest baking apples. Weigh ten ounces of sifted sugar, and choose ten apples each about the size of a lawn-tennis ball. Put Purie °f the sugar into a stewpan (earthenware or ?Sded enamelled), moisten it with a claret-glass- ful of water and a liqueur-glass of rum; peel, core, and mince the apples, put the pan over a low fire, pass in the mince ; stew very gently, adding the zest128 FIFTY LUNCHES. and juice of a lemon and a saltspoonful of powdered cloves ; when thoroughly hot stir in half an ounce of soaked gelatine, and when the fruit is pulpy pass all through a hair sieve ; wet a border-mould, put it in ice or in a cold larder, pour in the puree, and let it get firm and as cold as possible. Turn out the flamri when wanted, filling the hollow of the mould with whipped cream, and pouring a syrup flavoured with rum and lemon round the outside. 4. Cut up and cook three dozen fillets of cucumber, stop as soon as you can pass a trussing needle into the vegetable easily, and drain the fillets ^ila^ecm^ 0n a s*eve* ^et tnem quite cold, and villc. cut them into quarter-inch squares. Pick a dozen large prawns from their shells, and cut them into similar pieces. With these fill half a dozen darioles, mixing the two fairly. Melt half a pint of aspic jelly, put it in a bowl over ice and whisk into it half a gill of oil and a dessert-spoonful of vinegar, thus making a mayonnaise collee, adding one yolk to colour it; immediately it attains the con- sistency of smooth cream pour it into the darioles, setting the prawn and cucumber squares in it over ice. Turn them out when required, and dish in a circle with a garnish of cress or curled endive.MENU XXXIX. (October.') (Eufs durs a la Bretonne. Paupiettes de bceuf a l'Espagnole. Salsifls au gratin. Compote de bananes au zeste d'orange. i. Soak a pint measure of dried white haricot beans during the night in cold water, drain the next morning, and put them into a casserole or stewpan with a four-ounce onion sliced, Hard-boiled a bouquet garni, a bacon bone or piece of Wetonne. the lean, and a saltspoonful of pepper ; cover well with cold water, set them over a good fire, and boil until they are tender. As soon as this has been done, place a sieve over a basin, and empty the contents of the pan upon the sieve, thus draining off the liquid in which the beans were cooked. Leave the beans on the sieve. Put an ounce of butter into another stewpan, set it over a low fire, and stir in when the butter has melted two ounces of minced onion, fry very gently until the onion turns a pale brown, then mix in an ounce of flour ; when smooth pass in a pint of the beans water which was strained off, bring to the boil, tint with caramel, skim, and pass all through a hair sieve ; pour the sauce into the rinsed-out stewpan, and stir in the cooked beans from which the bouquet, onion, and bacon bone have been13° FIFTY LUNCHES. removed ; heat up gently without boiling, then dish in a legumiere, arranging eight halves of hot hard- boiled eggs on the surface just before serving. 2. For this dish you want six slices of uncooked tender beef not more than a quarter of an inch thick, four and a half inches long, and three bSfttm °/wide- The butcher should cut these to brown sauce, order. Lay them out on a board, brush over their upper sides with beaten egg, season with pepper and salt, and spread over them the following farce, which should be mixed separately in a bowl:—Two ounces of bread crumb, half an ounce of minced blanched onion, a saltspoonful of powdered rosemary, one of powdered marjoram, one ounce of minced mushroom, a dessert-spoonful of minced parsley, half an ounce of fat of ham minced small, and one whole egg. This must not lie too thickly on the beef, neither should it be carried further than within half an inch of the edges of the slices. Next roll the pieces of meat over, enveloping the farce, and secure each roll with two pieces of string. Butter a deep saute-pan (having a cover), or a fricandeau-pan, with an ounce of butter, and lay over it two ounces each of onion, carrot, and turnip finely minced, the stalks and peelings of a quarter of a pound of mush- rooms minced, and seasoning; set over a low fire, put in the pciupiettes, and fry so as to seize and colour them (faire revenir) ; then moisten to half their depth with broth, cover closely, push the pan into a mode- rate oven, and cook gently there, basting every now and then with the caisson in the pan. As soon asSALSIFY AU GRATIN. 131 tender take out the ftauftieltcs, lay them in a pyramid on a very hot silver dish, and cover closely. Strain off the broth, add a gill of tomato sauce or conserve, and pass it into a stewpan in which a roux of half an ounce of butter and half one of flour has been prepared to receive it. Bring this to the boil, skim, pass it through a pointed strainer over the fiaufiiettes, and serve, garnishing with turned potatoes arranged in a chain round the outer edge. 3. Scorsonera—the black salsify—is a better vege- table than the white, but is not so easily got. This dish is designed for the latter. Half a bundle will be enough. Choose nice falsify an pieces, wash, scrape, and trim them an & equal length, cutting off the thin ends, and casting them into cold water in which a dessert-spoonful of vinegar has been mixed. Have ready on the fire in a stewpan a pint of uncoloured broth, or milk and water in half and half proportions, and half an ounce of butter ; bring this to the boil, slip in the salsify, partly cover the pan, and simmer till the vegetable is tender ; then drain it, arrange the pieces neatly on a flat gratin-dish, thicken half a pint of the caisson, add a dessert-spoonful of cream, mask the salsify with it, strew grated Parmesan over the surface, and set the dish in the oven till heated and coloured, serving with a garnish of croutons or biscuits of savoury short-paste, No. 4, Menu iv. N.B.—In the case of black salsify cook the roots without cutting and peeling, reserving trimming until afterwards, when they are cold.FIFTY LUNCHES. 132 4. Peel a dozen ripe bananas, scrape off their fibre. Have ready on the fire in an earthenware or enamelled Compote of pan a hot syrup—three gills of water, six bananas ounces of sugar, and the finely peeled rind with the zest 0f two oranges with their iuice. As soon of oranges. , 0 , . J , , as the bananas are trimmed plunge them into boiling water, drain at once, and transfer them to the syrup, which now remove from the fire. Let the bananas marinade in the syrup for an hour, then take them out, lay them in a china bowl over ice, strain and reduce this syrup, cool it, pour it over the fruit, and serve with whipped cream.MENU XL. 133 (October.') Loup-de-mer a la Dubois. Noisettes de lapin au celeri. Pommes en surprise. Darioles a la Calaisienne i. About a pound and a half of hake having been procured in slices not more than half an inch thick, lay them upon a joint dish, season them with salt, pour two tablespoonfuls of salad Hake with oil over them, add the juice of a lemon, 'ZZ'™^ cover with coarsely chopped parsley, and let them lie in this marinade half an hour ; then turn them, continuing the process another half hour. Now lift the slices, drain, and dry them on a cloth, flour them, brush them over with an egg beaten up with a teaspoonful of the marinade, and then turn them over upon a cloth containing a couple of breakfast-cupfuls of finely sifted oven-dried crumbs. Let the crumbing dry well before proceeding to fry the fish, which must of course be done piece by piece in boiling fat deep enough to cover them. Serve with this sauce :— Put a coffee-cupful of horse-radish raspings into half a pint of milk, boil up, season with salt, and simmer ten minutes; then strain the milk into a bowl, stir two eggs into it, and turn it to a custard over a vessel containing boiling water ; finish with a teaspoonful Ox reduced vinegar.*34 1-1FTY LUNCHES. 2. Take the flesh off the bones of a nice rabbit. Put the former aside ; break up the latter, and put them into a stewpan with four ounces of Fillets of onions, three each of carrots, turnips, and rabbit with . 1 ' celery. leeks, a muslin bag containing a dessert- spoonful of dried herbs, an ounce of celery and one of parsley, and a seasoning of salt and mig- nonette pepper; pour in sufficient cold water to cover well; put over a low lire, boil up, skim, and simmer for a couple of hours. Strain the broth off, rinse out the stewpan, return the broth to it, set it on the fire, and bring to the boil. Now put in the rabbit meat cut into neat pieces, and three heads of young celery each cut in half lengthwise ; cover the pan, and simmer very gently for an hour and a quarter. By this time the rabbit and celery should be done; strain off the broth, arrange the former on a hot dish, and cover them up while you rapidly thicken the broth in a stewpan with a roux ready to receive it made of an ounce of butter and an ounce of flour ; bring to the boil, skim, stir in a tablespoonful of cream, and pour through a strainer over the rabbit and celery, garnish with rolls of fried bacon, and serve. Unless com- menced quite early in the morning the broth should be made on the previous day. 3. Make a pound of puff pastry and roll it out thinly. Choose six cooking apples of equal size, say the size of a lawn-tennis ball or a little tail- cases larger> Pare them neatly, and with a tube ° ' cutter an inch wide cut straight through the centre of each, thus forming a hollow rightLITTLE MOULDS OF SHRIMP PUR&E. *35 through the apple and removing the core. Cut the pastry into six squares, set an apple in the centre of each, brush all the apples over with melted butter, powder them well with sugar, and fill the hollows with apricot jam flavoured with any liqueur you like ; now damp the edges of the squares of paste, draw them together at the top of the apples, fixing them securely, and covering the joining with leaves cut out of the paste. Arrange the apples upon a buttered baking- sheet, brush them over with beaten egg, and bake them in a gentle oven three-quarters of an hour. Dust over with sugar, and serve on a hot napkin. 4. Make a custard with half a pint of boiled milk and three eggs, stir in half an ounce of soaked gela- tine, strain through a sieve, and add a paste made of a gill measure of picked moulds of shrimps pounded with four fillets of shrimp anchovy ; mix thoroughly, put in a table- *urie' spoonful of Devonshire cream, set the dariole-moulds in ice, fill them with the mixture, and when cold and firm turn them out. Dish in a circle decorated with curled endive. fMENU XLI. 136 {November.') (Eufs pocb.es a la Gounod. Cfitelettes de pore, sauce Robert. Chou frfse- au riz. Macaronade a l'Algerienne. 1. With a round cutter two and a quarter inches in diameter stamp out six rounds of bread three- Poachcd e «s e^ntns °^ an incn thick ; fry in butter, with tongue. an<^ ^eeP them hot on a wire drainer in the mouth of the oven ; with a two-inch cutter stamp out six rounds a quarter-inch thick of cold cooked tongue ; warm these in thick brown sauce with a slight marsala flavour, and poach six eggs very carefully. Arrange the oroides on a flat silver dish, put a round of hot tongue upon each, trim, and lay a poached egg on the surface of the tongue, mask with the brown sauce, and serve gar- nished with watercress. 2. The cutlets, nicely trimmed, should be grilled, paper frills should be slipped over the ends of the bones, and they should be arranged round w°WisauceS a Pyram^ °^ masned potato garnished Robert. with a dozen small tomatoes that have been cooked in the oven on a buttered baking-tin, well basted during the cooking with137 CURLED CABBAGE WITH RICE. melted butter, and dusted over finally with grated cheese. Sauce Robert should be made as follows :— Chop up two ounces of mild onion and fry gently in a casserole over a low fire in half an ounce of butter ; stop before colouring commences, and pour in a gill of chablis, sauterne, or hock ; continue the cooking till the wine is reduced and forms a glaze, then pour in by degrees two gills of good broth, increase the heat, and when the liquid is near boiling-point add a large teaspoonful of cornflour diluted with broth; boil now for five minutes and skim, tint with caramel, lastly adding a large teaspoonful of mustard mixed with tarragon vinegar ; strain at once after this into a hot sauce-boat, and serve. 3. Cut a small savoy cabbage in four pieces, soak them in cold salted water half an hour, then plunge them into boiling salted water, and keep Curled at that temperature for ten minutes ; next cabbage turn them out upon a sieve, which place with rice- under a tap of cold water, and as soon as the hot water has drained away "refresh" the pieces of cabbage with a douche from the tap, and when thus cooled press all moisture out of them. Prepare a stewpan of a size just large enough to hold the cabbage nicely, line it with slices of uncooked bacon and a three-ounce onion cut into thin rings, arrange the pieces of cabbage over that bed, and moisten just level with their tops with hot broth, cover with buttered paper, and place the pan over a low fire, simmering gently for a couple of hours. As this is proceeding boil four ounces of best Patna rice in theFIFTY LUNCHES. manner described at page 3, adding, after returning it to the dry hot pan, an ounce of butter, a dusting of salt and pepper, and a heaped-up tablespoonful of grated Parmesan. Keep this hot closely covered in the bain-marie. When the cabbage pieces are done drain them, arrange them on a very hot dish, cover them, and quickly thicken three gills of the strained broth ; as soon as this is done put the rice in a circle round the cabbage, pour the sauce over the latter through a strainer, and serve, with grated Parmesan accompanying. For abstinence days milk may be substituted for meat broth and butter for the bacon in cooking the cabbage. 4. Select three dozen large dates, wash them, dry them with a cloth, pick out their stones, lay them in an earthenware or enamelled stewpan with Dates 111 {wo ounces 0f sugar, the finely peeled rind custard with . . 1 / macaroons. and juice of a lemon, a stick of cinnamon, and just sufficient light claret to cover them ; bring nearly to the boil, and then simmer gently, turning the fruit occasionally until it is soft and nearly all the liquid absorbed. When this has been done let the dates get cold in the pan. To finish, set a china dish over ice or in a cold larder, and arrange the dates upon it ; over them place a layer of macaroons that have been marinaded with liqueur, and pour over all gently by degrees a pint of rich custard flavoured with vanilla with which an ounce of gelatine has been dissolved. Set the layer of dates first, then the macaroons, and lastly pour in the rest. Whipped cream may be laid over the surface.MENU XLII. 139 (November.) Coquilles aux huitres a la Mornay. Langue de veau a la Venitienne. Mousse de topinambours. Omelette sucree aux pistaches. i. Six silver or china scallop-shells being available, or one large one, make a coarse mince of any nice cold cooked fish—turbot, brill, cod, or other white fish, six good tablespoonfuls Oyster being enough. Get a dozen fine sauce £^5^* oysters with their liquid, and have ready three gills of fish broth. Prepare the oysters in this way :—Put them with their liquid into the fish broth (cold) over a rather low fire, watch closely and at the first indication of boiling draw the pan away, let the oysters remain two minutes in the warm broth, then drain them, trim off their beards, and place them ready with the minced fish. Next thicken the strained broth with half an ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour; boil, skim, and reduce this till it coats the spoon ; then butter the shells and lay in the mince, allowing three oysters for each shell. Now add a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan to the sauce, and use it for moistening the mince. Dust Parmesan over the surfaces of the shells, heat in the oven, taking care to avoid burning or exhausting theFIFTY LUNCHES. 140 moisture, and then serve on a folded napkin garnished with parsley. 2. Having trimmed a good-sized fresh calf's tongue, soak it in cold water for an hour, then put it into a casserole or stewpan, and cover it with hot Calf's tongue broth bring to the point of boiling and a la Vein- 1- • , ,1 , ticnuc. then slip into the pan three ounces each of onions, carrots, turnips, and leeks, all cut into small dice, an ounce of celery, a bag con- taining a dessert-spoonful of dried herbs, and season- ing ; simmer for about three hours, then take out the tongue, and strain off the broth. At once, while it is hot, scrape off the skin of the tongue and put it away. This should be done the day before or quite early on the day itself. Having taken the fat off the broth, proceed to thicken three gills of it, bring to the boil, skim, and add half a gill of marsala. Next, having sliced up the cold tongue (or warm, as the case may be) in slices three-eighths of an inch thick and placed them in a casserole, strain the sauce over them, adding a gill of tomato sauce or puree. Let them marinade in this till wanted, when set the pan over a low fire and gently warm the tongue as you would a ragout. When hot take out the pieces of tongue, arrange them on a hot silver dish in a line overlapping each other, pour the sauce over them, and garnish with a ring of glazed button onions, Jerusalem artichokes, Brussels sprouts, or any nice garnish. 3. Boil and simmer a pound and a half of youngSWEET OMELETTE WITH PISTACHIO NUTS. 141 Jerusalem artichokes in just enough milk to cover them ; when tender strain off the milk, and pass the artichokes through a hair ¥°uld°^m sieve ; custardise half a pint of the milk artichokes. with three eggs, and as it cools pass the puree into it; season with pepper and salt, and add a gill of whipped cream ; butter a plain charlotte- mould, line it with buttered paper, pour the mixture into it and steam gently about three-quarters of an hour. Turn out the mould when it is set, and mask with Milanaise sauce. 4. Peel and pound with a dessert-spoonful of noyeau, or any liqueur that may be available, one ounce of pistachio nuts; blend with them four rata- fias that have been crushed to powder ; Sweet omc- add an ounce of sugar, and just enough let^w^hPls- n , . , , , tachw nuts. syrup flavoured with the liqueur to bring the puree to the consistence of jam ; warm this gently and pass it into an omelette, made as described in the Appendix for sweet omelette, at the time indi- cated for the addition of jam.MENU XLIII 142 (November.) Timbale de morue. Petit-sale" a la Wyvern. Navets a la mar^chale. Croquettes de riz. i. Boil three ounces of spaghetti for ten minutes only, drain, and spread it out upon a joint dish. Butter a plain pint charlotte-mould well, Timbale of and let the butter get cold all round the top and sides of the mould ; then, direct- ing it with a trussing needle, line the top and sides with the spaghetti, coiling it in circles round the former, and setting it in layers like the straw hoops in a bee- hive all round the sides. When the mould is lined, fill it with a mixture made exactly like that given for the fish creams in Menu ii., substituting codfish for the whiting in these proportions :—Eight ounces of cod, three of butter, and three of bread panada, three whole eggs, half a gill of fish broth, and a tablespoon- ful of cream with seasoning. Steam the timbale very gently for about three-quarters of an hour, and when firmly set turn it out, wipe off the butter which will cling to the spaghetti, and serve garnished with parsley. Sauce hollandaise may accompany. 2. This way of serving a nice piece of boiledRICE CROQUETTES. 143 pickled pork has been tried and approved of. Dish the piece of meat when it is ready on a flat dish, arrange round it a ring of white Boiled haricots, cooked as described for No. 1, ShaSs. Menu xxxix., but moistened with white sauce made with their cuisson and garnished with chopped parsley, and mask the pork with freshly made tomato sauce mixed somewhat stiffly. 3. Choose four four-ounce turnips, pare, and cut them in slices about the thickness of a halfpenny, trim these in rounds or ovals as much the same size as possible, drop them one by Baked one into cold water, and when all are tZfchau! ready drain and turn them out upon a clean cloth to dry ; butter a saute-pan with two ounces of butter, set it over a low fire, and lay the turnip slices in it, moving them about till turning a pale gold colour; then lift and arrange them in a buttered fireproof china baking-dish in layers, dusting them with grated Parmesan, and when the dish is filled moisten the whole with sauce Milanaise, page 89 ; cover the surface with grated cheese, and pour the butter out of the saute-pan over it. Push the dish into a moderate oven and bake until it is coloured and you can easily pass a skewer through the slices of turnip. Serve in the dish laid on a napldn. 4. Blanch six ounces of Carolina rice in boilina water for five minutes, then drain and & transfer it to another stewpan containing Rice a quart of boiling milk, four ounces of croquettes- sifted sugar, an ounce of butter, and the zest of a lemon.i44 FIFTY LUNCHES. Simmer now for an hour over a low fire, remove the pan, and when the rice is cool, having absorbed nearly the whole of the milk, break into it two whole eggs, mix well, and spread it out upon a dish to a thickness of an inch and a half. When cold and firm cut the mass into pieces an inch wide and one and a half long. Strew a pastry board over with crumbled ratafias that have been grated, or pounded and sifted ; put the portions of rice upon this bed, and roll them in cork shapes, then dip them in well- beaten egg and crumb them with the same crumbs. Fry when quite dry in a deep bath of boiling fat till a golden colour, and drain afterwards on a wire drainer laid on a sheet of brown paper in front of the fire ; then dust them liberally with sifted sugar, and serve with hot apricot syrup sauce, flavoured with rum and lemon. An easy luncheon dish if the rice be prepared the day before or very early in the morning, to allow of its getting cold.MENU XLIV. " 145 (November.) CEufs aux huitres a la Mathurin. Quasi de veau a la pelerine. Chartreuse de pgches. Croustades au merluche fumee. 1. Prepare a dozen and a half sauce oysters as explained for No. r, Menu xlii. Boil four eggs hard, cool them in cold water, and remove their shells. Fry in half an ounce of butter an Hard-boiled ounce and a half of minced shallot; as soon as slightly coloured stir in half an ounce of flour, mix well, and moisten with the oyster broth, half a gill of chablis and half a gill of tomato puree or sauce ; boil up, skim, and strain through a hair sieve. Now butter a fireproof china dish, slice up the hard-boiled eggs, arrange them in the dish, cut the oysters in halves, after having removed their beards, and lay them over the eggs ; moisten all with the sauce, warm in the oven till as hot as possible, and serve with sippets of fried bread arranged round the dish. 2. Bone a piece of the chump end of a loin of veal, stuff it with the stuffing given for No. 2, Menu xxxix. and cook it in the manner described for breast of veal, Menu viii. When done, take out the meat, dish it on a hot dish and cover it closely ; strain off theFIFTY LUNCHES. 146 broth, skim off the fat, and having a rottx ready in a stewpan of an ounce each of butter and flour, pro- Braised ceed to tnicken xt> adding the chopped chump cud stalks and peelings of half a pound of of veal with mushrooms ; bring to the boil, skim, and mushrooms. . ' strain the sauce over the piece of meat, garnishing with the mushrooms which yielded the trimmings separately broiled. 3. Very easily made with preserved peaches. Take a pound tin, strain off the syrup into a clean sauce- pan, put into it two tablespoonfuls of c^fplachcs aPric°t jam> the juice of a lemon, a glass of sherry or madeira, or a liqueur-glass of liqueur ; warm gently over the fire, adding half an ounce of soaked gelatine ; when this has dissolved pass the whole through a clean hair sieve reserved for sweet cookery. Now set a mould in ice, arrange a pattern at the top according to fancy and set it with a little of the syrup; when set arrange a layer of peaches, set it in like manner, and continue the process until the mould is filled ; turn it out when it is wanted, and serve with whipped cream. If set in a border-mould the cream can be put in the centre, with minced preserved cherries scattered over it. 4. Make the croustadcs cases as explained for No. 4, Menu vi. Take eight ounces of the CrCakd°'i d °* a snloke<^ haddock after having dock in case 's, poached the fish till nicely softened, picked out all bones and removed all skin. Pound this in a mortar with an ounce of butter to a paste,CREAM OF SMOKED HADDOCK IN CASES. 147 passing it all through a hair sieve ; moisten the paste with half a gill of milk, the yolks of two eggs, and a tablespoonful of cream, seasoning with salt, Nepaul pepper, and a dust of mace. Thicken the mixture as you would make a custard in a bowl over a vessel containing hot water, and just when wanted heat the empty croustades, fill them with the mixture, sprinkle the surfaces with chopped olives, and serve on a hot napkin. Do not fill the cases too soon or the paste will be sodden.MENU XLV. 148 (December.) Poisson St. Pierre a la Rouennaise. T6te de cochon aux choux de Bruxelles. Riz froid aux abricots. Bouchers a la Norv^gienne. I. Remove the flesh of a small John Dory in two fillets; make a strong broth of the head and bones as previously described ; dry with flour, egg John Dory and bread-crumb the fillets after shaping a la Rotten- , r t> naise. eacn neatly. Make a sauce with two gills of the broth and one gill of tomato puree, boiling up, skimming, and reducing it till creamy and well flavoured ; fry the fillets in boiling fat, drain, dry, sprinkle with salt ; dish on a hot dish garnished with olives farcies and parsley, with the sauce in a boat. 2. Choose half a young pig's head, fresh. Put it into boiling broth with the vegetables, seasoning, &c, given for the breast of veal, Menu Pigs head v[[[ anc[ simmer until sufficiently tender with Brussels , \ .. c , sprouts. to admit of the easy removal of the bones. Having done this, put the meat under a weight; cool the strained broth, and remove all fat. Next turn a pint and a half of the latter to a sauce with a roux of an ounce and a half of butter and theLAX BOUCHEES. 149 same of flour, add to it the chopped peelings and stalks of half a pound of mushrooms, boil up, skim, and simmer ten minutes, after which strain off the sauce. Now cut the meat of the head into neat pieces, put them into a stewpan, cover with the warm broth, put in the mushrooms which yielded the trimmings, and simmer over a low fire till the meat is perfectly tender and the mushrooms done. Arrange a border of Brussels sprouts on a hot dish, put the pieces of meat in the centre, boil up, skim the sauce once more, sharpen it with a squeeze of lemon juice, and pour it through a strainer over the latter. This will be found as nice in every respect as a calf's head. 3. Prepare six ounces of Carolina rice as described for No. 4, Menu xliii., with this exception—when you take it off the fire turn it into a china or silver dish, cool, and later on set it Compote of • • "1*1CC 10)1 til over ice, turning it about with a silver apricotSm fork as you stir into it a gill of cream ; upon this bed lay as many preserved apricots, cut in halves, as will cover it, mask the layer with a syrup flavoured and thickened in the manner given for No. 4, Menu xxxvi., cover that with whipped cream, and serve. 4. Make a custard as described for No. 4, Menu v., but without separating the yolks from the whites—using four whole eggs, seasoning Lax and two tablespoonfuls of cream. Pour bomh6cs- this into buttered bouchee-moulds two inches inFIFTY LUNCHES. diameter, and steam until set. Let them get cold in the moulds, and then with a vegetable scoop hollow them out as cups, but leaving enough margin to make sure of their not breaking. Fill these hollows with lax puree, rather stiffly worked, garnish with an olive farcie, and serve upon a bed of broken aspic, or, the part scooped out having been passed through a wire sieve, may be scattered over the dish as a carpet, the bouchees being arranged in a circle over it, and a thin veil of well-dried garden cress scattered over all. For lax puree, take two ounces of the fish, free it from oil, and pound it with a couple of filleted anchovies, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and two ounces of butter, season with Nepaul pepper and a pinch of mace, pass through a hair sieve, and use.MENU XLVI. 151 (December.) CEufs en baril au puree de faisan. Dinde a la Chevaliere. Choux de Bruxelles a la Wyvem. Beignets a la Noel. 1. Peel and slice off the ends of six hard-boiled eggs so that when set upright they will look like little barrels ; then with a tube-cutter remove „ , , ' , ...1, 1 1.1 Barrels of the yolks, and set the barrels in a dish cggs with over ice ; next fill the hollows with phea- pheasant 4)11'}"€C sant puree slightly diluted with jellied sauce, and lay a disc of cooked truffle on the top of each. With the removed yolks make the sauce given for No. i, Menu xxxii. Garnish the dish with broken aspic jelly and curls of celery. The proportions for six barrels should be four large tablespoonfuls of minced pheasant mixed with two tablespoonfuls of strongly reduced sauce made on the lines of sauce a la Gogue (page 2), with which (during the cooking of the broth) a quarter ounce of gelatine has been dis- solved. Let the salad sauce, quite cold, accompany the dish in a boat. 2. A very good rechauffe. Pick separately the white meat from the remains of a cold turkey— about twelve ounces, freed from skin, Turkey a la sinew, and bone enough—and pass it Chevaliere.FIFTY LUNCHES. 152 through the mincing machine; out of the meat of one thigh and drumstick trim as many neat little fillets as you can, adding any little trimmings there may be to the mince. With the bones make a pint of broth as described for No. 2, Menu v., and with it prepare a sauce in the same way. To finish the dish, put the mince into a stewpan and dilute it with just sufficient of the sauce to bring it to the consistency of jam, warming the whole gently over a low fire. As for the fillets, dip them into the sauce and roll them in finely pounded crumbs, frying them a golden yellow in boiling fat. Dish the mince inside a circle of mashed potato, arranging the fillets round the outside of it, alternated with rolls of crisply fried bacon, and let the remainder of the sauce, heated up to steaming-point, be served in a boat. 3. Choose the Brussels sprouts for this dish of the same size, trim them neatly, and plunge them into Brussels boiling salted water in a non-tinned vessel sprouts for three minutes, then drain them in a Wyvem's colander. Next take a fricandcau-p^ or way. , large sautc-p3.11. with a cover, the object being to get a wide but shallow vessel in which the sprouts can be well spread out. In this melt an ounce and a half of butter, and, for a pound of sprouts, stir in four lounces of finely minced Spanish onion ; fry this gently over a low fire until the onion atoms are soft but not coloured, then lay the drained sprouts over them, and moisten with sufficient broth to cover nicely, simmer very gently till the vegetablesPLUM-CAKE FRITTERS. 153 are clone, then, with a trussing needle, take the sprouts out of the pan, setting them on a dish aside for the present. Pass the broth through a hair sieve with the softened onion, return it to the rinsed-out pan, set it on the fire, and thicken it slightly with a tea- spoonful of rice or cornflour, bringing it to the boil when you do so ; skim, draw the pan back, add two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan, a tablespoonful of cream, and the sprouts. Warm gently, and serve in a legumiere with sippets of fried bread. 4. Cut neatly out of slices of cold plum pudding, three-eighths of an inch thick, a number of oblongs— say two and a half inches long and one and a quarter across. Make the batter S^s"*^ given at page 16, sweetening it with an ounce of powdered sugar, and adding a liqueur-glass of brandy with the squeeze of a lemon. Marinade the pieces of pudding with sugar," lemon-juice, and a few drops of brandy. When the time arrives for their preparation for the table, lift the pieces with a slice, and lay them on a clean, dry cloth, finish off the batter with the whipped white, dip the pieces into it, and pass them into a bath of boiling fat. Then drain, dry, and serve in a hot dish, sprinkled with powdered sugar. This is a good sauce :—Beat two ounces of sifted sugar with eight ounces of butter to a cream, add a liqueur-glass of brandy, sherry, or madeira, keep it in a cool larder, and serve in a cold sauce-boat.MENU XLVII. 154 (December.) Br6me-de-mer a la MontreuiL Escalopes de lievre a la Czarine. Pommes aux fruits a la Parisienne. Croustades de truffes. i. This dish may be made with any white fish. I take sea-bream for a change. Remove the flesh of a fish weighing a pound or pound and a fa^lontrcuil cluar^er m one ^onS piece from each side. Make three gills of broth with the bones, using milk for the moistening. Cook the fillets in this as explained for poached salmon, Menu vii.; set them aside under a weight, and strain in the broth. Thicken this with three-quarters of an ounce of butter and the same of flour, skim, add half a pot of Ruff's cream of lobster, stir well over the fire, and strain through a hair sieve. Return the sauce to the rinsed-out stew- pan, and, setting it over a quick fire, bring to the boil, reducing one-third of its quantity, and stirring continually till that has been effected. Now butter a gratin-dish, and having trimmed each fillet neatly in an oval form, lay them side by side upon it; mask them with the sauce, smoothing it with a palette- knife, push the dish into the oven to heat thoroughly, then garnish all round with separately cooked balls of potato cut with an inch scoop, and serve.APPLES WITH FRUIT A LA PARISIENNE. 155 2. Prepare as many neat fillets as the back of a hare will yield in the manner described for the cutlets in No. 1, Menu i. Make a pint , ^ • 1 Fillets of hare of hare broth m the same way, and % ia Czarine. strain when it is ready. Now lay the fillets in a saute-pan, moisten with enough of the broth just to come level with their surfaces, cover, and stew very gently till tender. While this is pro- ceeding, stew a dozen and a half chestnuts in the way given at page 52, using the remainder of the hare broth for the moistening. When both are ready pile the hare fillets in the centre of a hot entree-dish, arrange the chestnuts in a circle round them, and keep them hot while, with a roux pre- pared beforehand, you thicken the two broths blended ; boil, skim, and pour through a strainer over the fillets, serving at once. 3. Pare, quarter, and core six good-sized cooking apples, put them in a stewpan, and cover them with three gills of weak syrup, adding the A^Ics with juice and zest of a lemon and a few fruit d la drops of cochineal. Set over a low fire, Pansienne. and simmer gently till just tender. Make a border of rice in a pint border-mould with a hollow rim, sweetening, and flavouring the rice with lemon. Cut one good-sized apple into quarter-inch squares, also cut up a pear in the same way, and when the quarters of apple have been cooked sufficiently and removed from the syrup, put the little squares into it and stew them in like manner. Have ready a mince cut from two crystallised apricots and two greengages,156 FIFTY LUNCHES. and choose a dozen preserved cherries. When the squares are ready, strain off the syrup, putting the former with the minced apricot and greengage. Now put the syrup into a stewpan with a tablespoonful of apricot jam and a liqueur-glass of kirsch ; boil, adding a teaspoonful of rice-flour, straining it off through a hair sieve when it is ready. Now, having kept the rice in its mould in a cold place, and having the apple quarters, the mince, and syrup also cold, turn out the former upon a glass dish, fill the hollow with the mince, and pile the apple quarters dome- wise over all, pour the syrup over this, and dot the cherries over the surface tastefully, using a trussing needle for the operation. Cream should be handed round with this. 4. Six medium-sized uncooked truffles will be required for this, and six little oval tartelette-cases . made out of the paste described at Iruffles in a r^i r n , , pastry cases. PaSe 2b- Clean carefully, pare, and cook the truffles in enough chicken broth and sauterne in half and half proportions to cover them, putting in with them two ounces of minced onion, a teaspoonful of herbs, and a piece of garlic the size of a small pea in a muslin bag, and half an ounce of butter ; boil for ten minutes, and let the truffles get cold in the liquid ; then take them out and cut them into little squares or slices, thicken the broth, adding half an ounce of glaze or a gill of pure meat gravy, boil, skim, and strain into another stewpan, put in the truffles, heat up gently, heat the cases also, fill them, and serve immediately as hot as possible.MENU XLVIII. 157 (December.) (Eufs durs a la mode de Caen. "Dry curry." Haricots a la Livournaise. Marmelade de pommes. 1. Take a six-ounce Spanish onion, peel, divide it in halves, lay them on a board and cross-cut them in slices three-eighths of an inch thick. Rard fi 7 Plunge these into boiling water for five eggs, Caen minutes, then drain, spreading them out fashi<>n. on a clean cloth. Melt an ounce of butter in a stew- pan, put in the blanched onions, stir over a low fire till soft but without browning them, then mix in half an ounce of flour and three gills of broth or milk, with a seasoning of salt, pepper, and mace ; stir gently over the fire for twenty minutes, then lay in four hard- boiled eggs cut into slices, and three ounces of cooked ham trimmed in julienne-like shreds. Dish in a Ugumiere, garnished with sippets of fried bread. 2. Select any meat you like, or a chicken, for this and proceed as directed in the Appendix, marking the variation in the cooking to be fol- lowed if it be desired to use cooked "Dry curry" meat. Rice should of course be served with this and the usual chutneys, &c.FIFTY LUNCHES. 3. Soak a pint measure of white haricots for twelve hours, then drain, put them into a stewpan with a White hari- thick suce °* ^ean bacon, a four-ounce cot beans d onion cut into quarters, half an ounce of la Livour- celery, one of carrot sliced, and a muslin 11ll ISC bag containing a teaspoonful of dried herbs, season with a quarter of an ounce of salt and half that quantity of pepper. Cover with three pints of lukewarm water, and bring once to the boil, then simmer gently until the beans are tender but not broken. Now, turning the beans out on a sieve, strain off the water into a bowl beneath it, pick out the muslin bag and other vegetables, and let the beans lie as they are till wanted. Next, having a roux ready in a stewpan made with an ounce of butter and an ounce of flour, stir in by degrees a pint of the water in which the beans were boiled ; boil, skim, and put into it two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan and a gill of tomato conserve or puree. Pass all through a hair sieve. Arrange the beans in a fire- proof china dish, moisten them with the sauce, dust over with grated Parmesan, dot a few pieces of butter over the surface, and push the dish into the oven, serving it as soon as it is thoroughly hot. 4. Eight apples the size of lawn-tennis balls will be wanted for this. Pare, quarter, and core them, then mince them up, put the mince into Marmalade stewpan with the juice and zest of a of apples. * . ., ., 1 . . cr ■ lemon, moisten it with just sufficient syrup to cover nicely, and stew the fruit gently until sufficiently soft to pass through the sieve. ThisMARMALADE OF APPLES. 159 having been done, stir into it two tablespoonfuls of apricot jam and a liqueur-glass of kirsch, maras- chino, or any nice liqueur ; set this in the stewpan again, and reduce it over the fire, stirring continually until it becomes a stiff puree or marmalade. When this condition has been reached let it cool, and when cold arrange the puree in a dish in a dome-shape, using a palette-knife dipped in hot water to smooth its surface ; powder over then with finely sifted sugar, and garnish round with croutes of stale madeira cake which have been lightly fried in butter, cooled, and dusted with sugar. If liked, the surface of the sugar coating the dome may be glazed with a sala- mander or glazing-iron. 1MENU XLIX. 160 (For a summer luncheon party.) Truite saurnonee a la remoulade. (Eufs poches a la Crispi Epaule d'agneau a la Princesse. Asperges froids a la creme. Pouding de bananes aux fraises. Canapes de caviar. i. Turn to Menu xxii. and follow the recipe there given, substituting this sauce :—Scald and mince as finely as possible half an ounce of Salmon trout parsley, the same of chervil, the green Cl Id Y£\HOU~ ladc_ stem of one young onion, and six tarragon leaves ; pound them in a mortar with six fillets of anchovy freed from oil, a dessert- spoonful of French mustard, and five hard-boiled yolks of egg ; pass the puree through a hair sieve into a bowl laid over ice, beat into it two raw yolks, and drop by drop two gills of the best salad oil as in the case of mayonnaise ; finish with a dessert- spoonful of the best French vinegar and a table- spoonful of finely minced pickled gherkins. Keep the sauce as cold as possible. Poached eggs Thig win be £ound at page y0i a la Cnspi.BANANA PUDDING WITH STRAWBERRIES. 161 3. And this at page 35. For the sauce S^derd fa a la Princesse see page 71. Princcsse. 4. Wash, trim, and cook the asparagus as usual, release the bundle and lay the vegetable in a legumiere over ice with ice in a dish over it. Before serving season it with Cold a.sPara- i-ii .,, £us 101th salt and pepper, and sprinkle it with cream. tarragon vinegar. For the sauce put a gill of cream over ice and beat it with a whisk till stiff, serving it in a cold sauce-boat. 5. For this see No. 3, Menu xxiii. N.B.—A com- pote of fresh strawberries, set in syrup Banana puci_ as described in page 75, might be served ding with separately, the pudding being steamed in strawberttcs. a plain charlotte-mould, and glazed when cold with apricot glaze. 6. For these see page 78. 12MENU L. 162 (For a winter luncheon parly.) (Eufs durs aux huitres a la Matnurin. Paupiettes de oceuf a l'Espagnole. Faisans au riz tomato. Croustades de champignons. Pain de marrons au kirsch. Marmelade de pommes. Canapes a la Nantaise. 1. See No. i, Menu xliv. 2. This will be found at page 130. 3. And this at page 17. 4. Prepare a dozen oval croustades (page 28). Make half a pint of sauce (page 32). Cut the mushrooms which yielded the trimmings into quarter-inch squares, and simmer them gently, seasoning and stirring con- tinually, till quite soft. Keep this hot. Heat the cases, fill them the last thing with the ragout, dust over with raspings, and serve. 5. See No. 3, page 41. 6. This was given for No. 4, Menu xlviii. 7. And this at page 125.163 APPENDIX. On Curry-Making. The proportions I am about to give will be found reliable approximately for one pound of meat, or fish, a full-sized chicken, or a pound of vegetables. The vessels I recom- mend are French earthenware casseroles, which I consider by far the best for curry-making. They are admirable for slow cooking, and are very easily cleaned. Curries may be left in them without any risk, and may be served in them without dishing up if a napkin or frilled paper be pinned neatly round them. As curries improve by a day's keeping this is worth noting. Prepare the meat as follows :—Uncooked veal, mutton, lamb, pork, or beef, in three-quarter inch squares ; a chicken as for fricassee, but making three pieces of the breast (cross- cut), two of each thigh, and two of each leg, for chickens in India are used when much smaller than English birds. Fish should be cut into squares like meat; cucumbers, vegetable marrows, potatoes, and Jerusalem artichokes in neat pieces, cauliflower in sprigs, eggs (hard boiled) in halves lengthwise, &c, &c. Weigh four ounces of onion (Portugal preferred), and chop it up quite small; put two ounces of fresh butter into the casserole, set it over a moderate fire, and when the butter has melted put in the minced onion and cover the pan, leaving the onion to fry gently, softening it thoroughly, and gradually browning. There must be no burning, but it must brown. While this is going on, prepare the " curry stuff," or mixture, as follows :—Put into a soup plate a tablespoon- ful and a half of curry powder, a dessert-spoonful of curry paste, a saltspoonful of salt, and a tablespoonful of crime de riz or rice-flour. Turn these to a paste by moistening them slightly with stock or milk, amalgamating the whole* Next make the nutty infusion. In a small bowl put one tablespoonful and a half of desiccated cocoanut and one of ground sweet almonds, and pour over them a breakfast- cupful of boiling water. Cover this up to infuse, and leave it alone until the end of the whole process. By this time the onions should have cooked sufficiently,164 APPENDIX. so add to them the curry mixture, and carefully fry for ten minutes at least, so as to work away the crudity of the curry powder. This step is absolutely essential, and its omission in English recipes and in ordinary practice is the cause of the roughness in curries so much complained of bv foreign artists. When well fried, moisten, as in sauce-making, by degrees, with the best broth or stock at hand—fish broth for fish, milk or vegetable broth for vegetables, giblet broth for chicken, and so on. A pint will be found enough for the quantity of meat under treatment. When all has been stirred in accelerate the heat some- what, and then prepare the flavouring of green ginger (very necessary) and subacid. The former is contributed in a rasped or pounded state to the extent of a generously filled teaspoonful; the latter by a teaspoonful of red- currant jelly with the juice of half a lemon. If available, a dessert-spoonful of good chutney may also go in. Now let the contents of the pan boil, skim, and add, after browning it in a sow/^-pan in an ounce of butter, the uncooked meat, reducing the heat at once to simmering. The process now cannot be too gently conducted—an hour and a half is not too much to allow. Taste the sauce to see whether the subacid is sufficiently noticeable, also whether any more salt is needed. Corrections having been made accordingly, the nutty infusion should be poured into the curry through a strainer, the sediment being well pressed to expel all the milk. The curry can now be served, rice, dished separately, accompanying. Kindly observe a few salient points in this system of curry- making. Why do I use creme de riz ? I do so because I want to absorb the butter as by liaison. Few Indian cooks take this trouble unless instructed to do so. The conse- quence is that there is generally a most undesirable exudation of the fatty element in their curries, which, the moment extreme heat passes off, becomes greasy. A halo of this surrounding a curry is not an attraction to be encouraged. Next it may be asked, Why employ both powder and paste ? This, I think, is quite necessary to produce a Madras curry at its best, because there are ingredients in the paste which cannot enter into a powder—tamarind, green ginger, a very little garlic, almonds, mustard oil, &c.APPENDIX. 165 The green ginger and the nutty infusion are important features rarely attended to in England, and yet they are easily got. You can use an infusion of the desiccated cocoanut and ground sweet almonds sold for pudding- making. The " milk " thus produced makes a very good substitute for the fresh extract of cocoanut used in India. Green ginger can be got at all the Stores or the herbalists in Covent Garden. Next as regards the subacid. Apple is, I know, recommended by many. I see no harm in it, but it is not nearly as good as tamarind, the ingredient used in India. I am personally quite contented with red- currant jelly blended with lemon-juice. This dissolves easily, can be added as desired, and provides all that is wanted. There is another thing. In some recipes you find that you are advised to rub the pieces of chicken or meat with curry powder, and fry them with onions. This is quite superfluous in my system. All that is necessary is to toss the meat in butter in a sauie-pan sufficiently to "seize it," and then to pass it into the curry sauce. We have enough onions and " curry stuff" already in the composition. Touching curries made of cooked meats. It is a mistake to say that these are not worth eating. They can be turned out very well indeed by my method, provided you take care to have a really good moistening broth, assisted, say, with an ounce of meat glaze, and if you will remember these points :—Cooked meat does not need re-cooking, therefore, when you have got your well-flavoured sauce ready, slip in the meat, and let it marinade as long as you can therein without any cooking whatever. Then, when you want to serve, bring the contents of your casserole very gently to steaming-point, and send it up without delay. Dry Curry. To prepare a Dry Curry proceed to commence with exactly as in the previous case, but omit the crime de riz. When the onion has browned nicely, stir in the " curry stuff," which should be worked to a paste with good broth or gravy. Fry this in the same manner for ten minutes, then put in the squares of meat, the green ginger well pounded, and a coffee-cupful of strong nutty infusion—no other moistening. Keep the fire low throughout the process,APPENDIX. turning the meat about with a wooden spoon until the moisture is gradually absorbed, the pieces of meat separate trom each other, and surrounded with a powder formed by the ingredients which have been slowly dried during the process. This only requires patience. A quick fire will burn the curry, and make the meat tough. The Savoury Omelette. The recipe for this omelette differs somewhat from those usually propounded, being that of the cuisiniere bour^eoise rather than that of the Chef. The latter looks very nice, and is often finished tastefully with a pattern skilfully wrought with glaze, cordons of purees, and other decoration. To my mind the omelette suffers in being made so pretty, and is not as good a thing to eat as that of roadside inn or cabaret. An omelette ought never to be stiff enough to retain a very neatly rolled-up appearance. If cooked with proper rapidity it should be too light to present a fixed form, and on reaching the hot dish should spread itself rather, on account of the delicacy of its substance. Books that counsel you to turn an omelette, to fold it, to let it brown on one side, to let it fry for about five minutes, &c, are not to be trusted. If you follow such advice you will only produce, at best, a neat-looking egg pudding. Timed by the seconds hand of a watch an omelette of six eggs, cooked according to my method " by the first inten- tion," takes forty-five seconds from the moment of being poured into the pan to that of being turned into the dish. Though cream is considered by some to be an improvement, I do not recommend it. Milk is certainly a mistake, for it makes the omelette leathery. I confess that I like a very little minced chives in all savoury omelettes; but this is a matter of taste. Finely chopped parsley should be added with a seasoning of salt and pepper. The general rules to be observed in omelette-making, according to my process, then, may be thus summed up :— 1. Mix thoroughly, but do not bent the eggs, and never use more than six for one omelette, omitting two of the whites. 2. It is better to make two of six than one of twelve eggs. Success is impossible if the vessel be too full. If using four eggs, omit one white.167 APPENDIX. 3. Three eggs, mixed whole, make a nice-sized omelette, quite the best for the beginner to commence with. 4. Use a proper utensil, rather shallow, with narrow, well- sloping sides; a twelve-inch fireproof china pan will be found excellent ; see that it is clean, and quite dry. 5. Do not overdo the amount of butter that you use for the frying—enough to lubricate the pan evenly to the extent of a quarter of an inch is sufficient. 6. Be sure that your pan is ready to receive your mixture. If not hot enough the omelette will be leathery, or you will have to mix it in the pan like scrambled eggs (ceufs brouilles). 7. The moment the butter ceases to fizz and turns brownish, the moisture having been expelled, the pan is ready. 8. Pour the mixture into the pan so that it may spread well over the lubricated surface, then instantly lift up the part of the omelette that sets at the moment of contact, and let the unformed portion run under it; repeat this two or three times if the pan be at all full, keep the left hand at work with a gentle see-saw motion to encourage rapidity in setting, give a finishing shake, and turn the omelette into the hot dish before the whole of the mixture on the surface has quite set. 9. The omelette, slightly assisted by the spoon, will roll over almost of its own accord if the sides of the pan be sloped as I have described, burying within it the slightly unformed, juicy part of the mixture which remained on the surface ; it will not require folding. 10. Three-quarters of a minute is ample time for the whole operation, if the pan be properly hot when the mixture is poured into it, and the heat evenly maintained. 11. Have the hot dish close by the fire, so that you can turn the omelette into it instanter. A little melted butter, with some chopped parsley and chives, may, with advan- tage, be put into the dish. 12. It is above all things necessary to have a brisk fire under the pan while the omelette is being cooked. A fairly sized gas boiler serves the purpose. The small three-egg omelette can be made successfully over a powerful methy- lated spirit lamp. The ordinary kitchen fire is unsuited for this work unless it can be brought up level with the hot plate, with a clear live coal surface.APPENDIX. As it lies in the dish this omelette will not look like a bolster—it will take a natural, rather flat, irregular oval shape, golden yellow in colour, and flecked with green, with the juicy part escaping from beneath its folds. The Sweet Omelette. Break three eggs, carefully separating the yolks from the whites, whisk the latter to a stiff froth, and mix the former in a basin with an ounce of sugar and a few drops of lemon- juice. Set a twelve-inch omelette-pan on the fire with an ounce of butter, melt this and see that it covers the pan well without leaving any dry spaces; when the butter is hot without browning, quickly blend the yolks with the stiff whites and pour the mixture into the pan, smoothing it over with the palette-knife. Keep the heat below the vessel rather low, and leave the omelette alone for two minutes, after that detach the edges with the palette-knife, and note if the under part is setting nicely; as soon as this is observable pass the palette-knife under the whole omelette, double it over, and turn it into a hot silver dish, which should be ready close at hand, dusted well with sugar. Dredge sugar over the omelette liberally, and serve. Any flavour can be communicated with the sugar when mixing the yolks—orange, lemon, ratafia, vanilla, &c, &c. For omelette an rhum put a dessert-spoonful of this spirit into the bowl with the sugar and yolks, and when the omelette is dished pour a sherry-glassful of rum round it, and ignite it as you do brandy for a Christmas plum-pudding. If preserve of any kind is to be added, melt four table- spoonfuls of it separately in a small stewpan, adding a table- spoonful of liqueur, and just before doubling the omelette over spread the preserve rapidly over its surface. If provided with a glazing-iron the sugar spread over the surface of the omelette may be turned to caramel by an application of the heated iron. It will be found that the mixture I have described is as much as a twelve-inch pan can hold. Accordingly, if several guests have to be served, have two omelettes made and sent in rapidly in succession, the mixture being got ready before- hand.INDEX. DISHES OF EGGS. PAGE Buttered eggs with asparagus 58 „ „ with game . 103 „ ,, with shrimps . 12 „ „ with vegetables 76 Eggs a la Livournaise . .31 „ „ Russe . . .23 „ barrels of, with pheasant puree .... 151 „ in the dish with tomatoes . . . .43 Hard-boiled eggs a la Bre- tonne ..... 129 Hard-boiled eggs a la mode de Caen .... 157 Hard-boiled eggs a la Musco- vite 119 Hard-boiled eggs a la poisson- niere 35 Hard-boiled eggs with oysters 145 Omelette with lobster . . 97 Poached eggs a la Celestine . 49 „ „ Cingalese . 100 „ „ „ Crispi . 70 )i „ „ fermiere . 32 n „ „ Lyonnaise 93 „ „ with tongue . 136 DISHES OF FISH. Brill fillets a la Bonnefoy . 21 PAGE Cod (salt) a la bonne femme . 25 „ ,, ,, Willi lUllldlU- tinted rice . . . 46 „ timbale of 142 Crab, au gratin . . .64 „ salad .... 106 Eels in jelly a la Tartare . 109 Fish, cold, in shells . . 67 „ creams of, with shrimp sauce .... 7 „ croustades . . .113 „ in shells a la Carmelite . 52 „ with eggs ... 35 Gurnard a la Romaine . . 126 Haddock, orlys of . . .16 Hake with horseradish sauce 133 John Dory a la Rouennaise . 148 Lobster omelette . . .97 Mackerel fillets with olives . 116 Oysters scalloped a la Mornay 139 Salmon, border of, a la Par- mentier . . 37 „ cutlets a la pecheur . 79 „ „ poached. . 55 „ pie . . . . 87 „ salad with potatoes . 61 „ slice of poached . 29 Salmon-trout in jelly . . 73 Scallops, Ceylon curry of . 2 Sea-bream a la Maltaise. . 123 „ „ Montreuil . 154INDEX. 170 PAGE Sole fillets a la Bercy . . 84 „ with green butter . . 90 Whitings a la maitre d'hotel . 40 SAUCES. Sauce, apricot sweet „ a la Gogue . „ „ Soyer . „ Bonnefoy „ Bordelaise . ,, Ceylon (curry) ,, chaud-froid, brown i! » white „ Contadina . ,, for beef gratine . ,, for blanquette or fri cassee „ for boiled pheasant „ for chicken a la Toscane ,, for orlys of fish . ,, for poached salmon „ horseradish, for fish ,, matelote, for pigeons „ maitre d'hotel ,, mayonnaise collee Milanaise plum-pudding poulette princess (cucumber) remoulade . Robert. roebuck shrimp. Soubise Tartare venison Venitienne . verte for salmon . DISHES OF MEAT. Beef croquettes a la Viennoise Jratin . of, a l'Es- 10 2 38 21 9 3 69 89 97 49 59 18 22 17 29 133 53 40 128 89 153 98 7i 160 137 14 8 9i no 120 140 55 minced au gratin paupiettes pagnole 68 117 130 Beef, slices of, gralines . Calf's tongue a la Venitienne Chicken a la Parmentier ,, „ Toscane „ cutlets a la Villeroy „ mazagran of Chickens, little, with new vegetables . Curry, Ceylon. dry ,, Madras Fowl, pilao of Game, quenelles of, fried Grouse, salmis of . Hare cutlets a la Gogue . „ fillets a la Czarine Lamb cutlets a la Murillo „ „ „ Princesse ,, neck of, with spinach ,, ragout of, with rice ,, shoulder of, with cu cumber Mutton cutlets a la Louise „ „ „ Verdi „ „ roebuck fashion „ neck of, a la Turque ,, noisettes of, a la Soyer Partridges a la Suisse . Pigeons stewed with mush rooms .... Pigeons stewed with peas Pheasant with rice. head with Brussel: sprouts Pork cutlets, sauce Robert „ salt, a la Wyvern . Quails a la financiere Rabbit braised a la Borghese „ Irish stew of „ noisettes of, with celery Turkey a la Chevaliere . Veal and ham pie . „ blanquette of, a la Citoy enne . „ cutlets a la Bordelaise Veal, breast of, with tomatoes Pig's PAGE 49 140 107 21 9i 64INDEX. 171 107 Veal, chump of braised with mushrooms ,, escalopes a la Contadina „ kidney with white wine „ stewed a la Venison, hashed Marengo PAGE 145 97 93 127 120 VEGETABLES. Artichoke bottoms a la Mila- naise a la Russe with an- „ creams, chovy . Asparagus, cold, with whipped cream „ creams . Broad beans a la poulette Brussels sprouts a la Wyvern Cabbage with rice . Chestnuts, stewed . Cucumber salads a la Deau- ville Endive puree . Flageolets a la Romaine French beans with soubise . Haricots (dried) a la Livour- naise Jerusalem artichoke cream . Mushroom creams . Onion and celery puree a la Suisse Peas a la Cecile Salsifis au gratin Spinach puree ,j ,, a la Louise „ with cream and soubise Tomato puree, consolidated for savouries Tomatoes stuffed a la Trou- ville Truffles in croustades Turnips a la marechale 89 105 75 161 65 98 152 137 47 128 9 5o 9i 158 140 US 114 85 131 56 21 107 7i 95 156 143 SAVOURY ENTREMETS. Macaroni fourre Rice with tomato . Salad a la belle alliance . „ sportsman's . Spaghetti with mushrooms SWEET DISHES. Almond tartlets Ambassadress' pudding . Antoinette cream . Apple puree moulded . Apples in pastry cases . „ marmalade. „ with fruit a la Paris- ienne . ,, with kirsch Banana pudding with straw- berries . ,, puree . Cake crusts a la Normande ., „ with chocolate . „ with peaches Cake in half mourning . Cake with cream . Charlotte with burnt almonds Chartreuse of peaches . Chocolate sauce Coffee custard pudding a la Turque . „ glaze .... Compote of apricots with rice „ „ bananas with zest of oranges „ „ green apricots „ „ chestnuts Cream of macaroons Dates in custard with maca , roons .... Eclairs with coffee Fancy fritters Ginger pudding Glace royale .... Green figs glazed with kirsch PAGE 101 18 39 121 81 5i 82 112 127 134 158 155 34 77 114 . 38 7i 124 53 104 27 146 22 10 19 149 132 89 14 30 138 19 44 99 27172 INDEX. PAGE Greengages in raspberry syrup 117 Green gooseberry puree with cream 65 Little moulds of coffee cream 68 Macaroriade a la Dubois . 36 Mould of chestnuts . .41 Peaches with macaroons . 92 Pineapple open tart . .121 „ pudding. . . 94 Plum-pudding fritters . .153 Praline custard pudding . 57 „ to make . . .27 Profiterolles with chocolate . 22 Rice croquettes . . . 143 „ fritters 59 Rhubarb creams . . .48 Roman fritters with maca- roons . . . . .62 Sweet omelette with pistachio nuts . . 141 „ ,, with straw- berries . 74 Tapicoa with whipped cream 5 SAVOURIES. Artichoke bottoms a la Russe 105 ,, creams with an- chovies . . 75 Bouchees a la Dauphine . 10 Canapes of ham . . .42 PAGE 125 78 5 146 36 28 86 Canapes of sardines „ „ caviare Colombines of ham Cream of smoked haddock . Croutes with herring roes Croustades a la Bohemienne . „ „ Sybille . Cucumber cases with shrimp puree 63 Darioles of shrimp . . . 135 Eggs a la Livournaise . .31 „ „ Russe . . .23 Foie gras escalopes with madeira .... 69 Housewife's toasts . . .45 Little cheese creams . . 20 „ „ „ with an- chovies 117 „ creams of asparagus . 65 „ salads a la Deauville . 128 „ moulds of macaroni . 54 Mushroom creams . . . 115 Neapolitan puddings . . 60 Norwegian bouchees . . 149 Plovers' eggs in cases . . 57 Salad a la belle alliance . . 39 Shrimp creams a la Mornay . 34 Stuffed olives a la Royale . 15 Tomato savoury . . • 71 Tomato stuffed a la Trouville 95 Truffles in cases . . .156 GLASGOW UNIVERSITY LIBRARY.THE GREAT WHEAT FOOD FLORADOR is made in three sizes of grains. Large Grained for Porridge, Omelettes, Soups, do. Medium Grained for Baked or Boiled Puddings, &c. Fine Grained for Blanc Mange, Cakes, Creams, Infants' Foods, &c. RECIPES ON PACKETS. The Lancet says :—" This preparation is excellent." To be had at Stores and Grocers in f and 1 lb. Packets at 6d. per lb., or from Chemists in 1/- Tins. FLORADOR^OOD CO., SO, Washington St., Glasgow. London Depot : COWAN & Co., 28 & 29, London Wall, E.C.October, 1S96. MR. EDWARD ARNOLD'S London: 37 BEDFORD STREET. New York: 70 FIFTH AVENUE. THE ADVENTURES OF MY LIFE. By HENRI ROCHEFORT. The authorised English edition, revised and specially arranged by M. ROCHEFORT, and translated under his personal supervision by E. W. Smith, editor of the Daily Messenger in Paris. In two volumes, large crown 8vo., 25s. In this work M. Henri Rochefort tells the amazing story of his adventurous life. Among the more important episodes are the author's personal naira- tive of the French Commune, his subsequent transportation to the pei.al settlement of New Caledonia, his marvellous escape, his numerous duels, his residence in England, and his deeply interesting journalistic ventures. The work is appearing in five volumes in French, but M. Rochefort has decided to prepare a special and, in many respects, original version in English for sale in this country ; he has reduced the bulk of the work to two handy volumes, by omitting much that is of purely local interest, and select- ing only such of his adventures as will appeal to English-speaking readers. Apart from the value of the matter, the brilliance of M. Rochefurt's style is notorious, and his strong personality penetrates every page of the work. The translation is being undertaken in Paris by Mr. E. W. Smith, editor of the Daily Messenger, in daily communication with the author.Mr. Edward Arnold's List. THROUGH UNKNOWN AFRICAN COUNTRIES. The First Expedition from Somaliland to Lake Rudolf and Lamu. A Narrative of Scientific Exploration and Sporting Adventures. By A. DONALDSON SMITH, M.D., F.R.G.S., Hon. Member of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia. With nearly 30 full-page Plates and a large number of smaller Illustrations, drawn from the author's Photographs and Sketches by A. D. McCormick, Charles Whymper, etc. Large 8vo., One Guinea. The body of the work is occupied by the narrative of the expedition, and its valuable scientific results are given in a series of Appendices to be contributed by such eminent specialists as Dr. Bowdler Sharpe, Dr. Giinther, Dr. Gregory, Mr. Boulenger, Mr. Pocock, Dr. Holland, and others. Dr. Donaldson Smith arrived at Berbera, on the coast of Somaliland, about Midsummer, 1894. During a previous expedition undertaken for sporting purposes in Somaliland, he had conceived the plan of penetrating into the unknown interior of the Dark Continent and forcing his way to Lake Rudolf. The present volume tells how he was enabled to achieve his object after just a year's march, beset by constant dangers and difficulties that would have proved fatal to a less hardy or persevering explorer. From Lake Rudolf Dr. Donaldson Smith made his way to the east coast at Lamu, by which time he had marched no less than four thousand miles. Dr. Smith found it necessary to take with him the considerable force of eighty armed men, for self-defence in case of attack by the savage tribes of the interior, and on more than one occasion the force was called into action in a most exciting manner. The party experienced all kinds of hardships and perils, but nothing was allowed to interfere with the scientific objects of the expedition, although sport, both for its own sake and for purposes of food supply, filled an important place in the plans. Valuable collections were made of plants, birds, insects, geological speci- men?, and ethnographical curiosities, by which the great museums of America and Europe have been sensibly enriched. Dr. Donaldson Smith discovered a town in which there were stone houses and beautiful shrines, in regions where only mud huts were supposed to exist. He came into prolonged contact with the warlike Abyssinians, and was even the recipient of an autograph letter from the Emperor Menelek. His journey took him through some of the loveliest scenery in the world.Mr. Edward Arnold's List. 3 IN AND BEYOND THE HIMALAYAS. A Record of Sport and Travel in the Abode of Snow. By S. J. STONE, Late Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Western Circle North-West Provinces of India. With 16 lull-page Illustrations by Charles Whymper. Demy 8vo., 16s. The author of this work has spent many years in India, and gives the record of several expeditions made for purposes of sport and exploration combined. He travelled through a great deal of practically unknown country in the Himalayas and borders of Tibet, and gives much valuable information about the scenes and people met with in the course of the journeys. The sporting incidents are exciting and graphically described, including the successful chase of nearly all the varieties of big game to be found in the regions traversed. The book will be splendidly illustrated by Mr. Charles Whymper. FIFTY YEARS' REMINISCENCES OF INDIA. By LIEUT.-COLONEL W. POLLOK, Late Madras Staff Corps, Author of' Sport in Burmah,' etc. With 16 full-page Illustrations by A. C. Corbould. Demy 8vo., 16s. Colonel Pollok's reminiscences go back as far as the old ' Company ' days, when he first went out to India as a cadet. All through his long career he has had a succession of exciting adventures by flood and field, and has witnessed an immense variety of interesting and amusing episodes. He is a good hand at telling a good story, and the book fairly bristles with anecdotes. Considerable space is allotted to sporting recollections, and the author has had such hair-breadth escapes and such excellent luck in his pursuit of big game that he presents a record difficult to surpass. THROUGH THE SUB-ARCTIC FOREST. A Record of a Canoe Journey for 4,000 miles, from Fort Wrangel to the Pelly Lakes, and down the Yukon to the Behring Sea. By WARBURTON PIKE, Author of ' The Ban-en Grounds of Canada.' With Illustrations by Charles Whymper, from Photographs taken by the Author, and a Map. Demy 8vo., 16s.4 Mr. Edward Arnold's List. THROUGH THE SUB-ARCTIC F0REST— Continued. many months he supported himself entirely by hunt ™ andfishw'fclS couldUS?ai! toffbe°rdnyctChanCre °f 0btaini"ff -PP'i- Such'nou^ ? couiu not tan to be productive of many exc t nsr episodes ™H thr,,,^ ,ul ^ue^oS^' ^ hardShip/he -nftha^t^tJ'of The Sportsman's Library. Edited by Sir HERBERT MAXWELL, Bart, M.P. This series will consist of a selection from the best works of past writers on sport, carefully chosen either on account of their literary merit, of the light thrown by them on the habits and resources of a bygone age, or of their dealt" with! ^ C°ntributions t0 knowledge of the various subject The volumes will be issued at the rate of two or three a year. They will contain in every instance an introductory chapter by the Editor, and such notes as may be necessary to explain or correct the author's statements Illustrations in the original works, when of sufficient merit or interest will be reproduced in facsimile, supplemented with new ones by the modern artists best qualified to deal with the various subjects. Among the artists 7co-operation has already been secured are Messrs. G. E. Lodge J. G Millais A. Thorburn, C. Whymper, G. H. Jalland, A. C. Corbould! P. Chenevix Trench, etc. The size of the volumes will be a handsome 8vo., and special care will be bestowed upon every detail of paper, print, and binding. The following will be published this season : THE LIFE OF A FOX. By THOMAS SMITH, Master of the Hambledon and Pytchley Hounds. With Illustrations by the Author and Six Coloured Plates by G. H. Jalland. Large 8vo., handsomely bound, 15s. Also a limited Large-paper Edition, two guineas net. This volume will contain both of Smith's published works—'The Life of a Fox' and 'The Diary of a Huntsman.' The author's reputation as a hunts- man, as well as his gift of literary expression and his skill as a spirited draughtsman, made these books exceedingly popular in their day, and they have now become very rare.Mr. Edward Arnold's List. 5 The Sportsman's Library—Continued. A SPORTING TOUR THROUGH THE NORTHERN PARTS OF ENGLAND, AND GREAT PART OF THE HIGHLANDS OF SCOTLAND. By Colonel T. THORNTON, of Thornville Royal, in Yorkshire. With a selection from the original illustrations by Garrard, portraits of the Author, and new plates by G. E. Lodge. F. C. Bennett, and others. Large 8vo., handsomely bound, 15s. Also a limited Large-paper Edition, two guineas net. This work, published in 1804, and reviewed the next year by Sir Walte Scott in the Edinburgh Review, has never been reprinted. It is extremely interesting, not only on account of the graphic descriptions of shooting, hawking, and angling, but because of the author*s shrewd observations on the state of society and manners, and his sympathetic description of scenery. THE SPORTSMAN IN IRELAND. By COSMOPOLITE. With numerous illustrations and coloured plates by P. Chenevix Trench. NEW AND CHEAPER EDITION. A LITTLE TOUR IN IRELAND. By 'OXONIAN ' (The Very Rev. S. Reynolds Hole). With nearly forty Illustrations by JOHN LEECH. Large crown 8vo., 6s. This famous book being now entirely out of print, a new edition, containing all the original plates, has been prepared, and will be issued at a popular price, in order that it may take its share in the good work of promoting a better acquaintance with the charms of the Emerald Isle. John Leech and his friend Oxonian' could not, it is true, foresee the birth of the Irish lourist Association ; but the inimitable pencil of the artist and the genial pen of the Dean of Rochester have helped in no small degree to familiarize he Eng ish public with the numberless attractions of Ireland and its laughter-loving people.6 Mr. Edward A rnold's List. THE CHANCES OF DEATH; AND OTHER STUDIES IN EVOLUTION. By KARL PEARSON, F.R.S., Author of ' The Ethic of Free Thought,' etc. With Illustrations and Diagrams. Demy 8vo., 16s. This is the first substantial work published by Professor Pearson since his well-known ' Ethic of Free Thought' appeared some years ago. The volume contains several scientific essays dealing with Chance in various aspects, from the Chances of Death to so-called Games of Chance, and points out how far mathematical theory corresponds with actual results. Another series of papers discusses problems of deep interest in connection with Woman and Labour, while a third section deals with important problems of modern political progress. HABIT AND INSTINCT. A Study in Heredity. By C. LLOYD MORGAN, Author of' Animal Life and Intelligence,' ' The Springs of Conduct j etc. Demy 8vo., 16s. In the winter of 1895-96 Professor Lloyd Morgan delivered the series of 'Lowell Lectures' which form the basis of this work. The subject is one which has been the author's special study for many years, and in the present volume he has given the mature result of his researches. Summary of Contents. I. Preliminary Definitions and Illustration':.—II.-IV. Observations on Yorng Birds. —V. Observations on Young Mammals.—VI. On the Relation of Consciousness to Instinct and to Habit.—VII. On the Relation of Intelligence to the Acquisition of Habits.—VIII. On Imitation.—IX. On the Emotions in their Relation to Instinct.— X. On some Habits and Instincts of the Pairing Season.—XI. On the Instincts of Nest-building, Incubation, and Migration.—XII. On the Relation of Organic to Mental Evolution.—XIII. Are Acquired Habits inherited?—XIV. On Modification and Variation.—XV. Habit and Instinct in Man. THE RELIGIONS OF INDIA. By EDWARD WASHBURN HOPKINS, Ph.D. (Leipzig), Professor of Sanskrit and Comparative Philology in Bryn Mawr College, U.S.A. Over 600 pages, demy 8vo., 8s. 6d. net. This is the first volume of an important series entitled ' Handbooks on the History of Religions.' Among the other volumes now in course of prepara- tion are those dealing with the religions of (ii.) Babylonia and Persia, (iii.) the Ancient Teutons, (iv.) Persia, (vi.) Egypt, (vii.) Israel.7 Mr. Edward Arnold's List. THE PLANT-LORE AND GARDEN-CRAFT OF SHAKESPEARE. By HENRY N. ELLACOMBE, M.A., Vicar of Bitton, Author of ' In a Gloucestershire Garden,' etc. Fully illustrated by Major E. Bengough Ricketts. Large crown 8vo., handsomely bound, ios. 6d. This is a new edition of a book originally issued for private circulation, which has now been long out of print. It was spoken of by the Spectator as 'a work which is entitled from its worth to a place in every Shakespearian library,' and efforts have been made in the present edition to give the text an adequate adornment. The volume is a complete and standard work of reference on the plants mentioned by Shakespeare. Canon Ellacombe takes each plant separately, and gives interesting particulars of its life-history and its place in legend and poetry. The illustrations by Major Ricketts are very beautiful and charac- teristic of the work. The artist has made a special visit to Stratford-on-Avon to sketch the scenes of Shakespeare's Garden-Lore, and has also depicted many of the plants named with great skill. A BOOK ABOUT ROSES. By the Very Rev. S. REYNOLDS HOLE, Dean of Rochester, Author of ' A Rook about the Garden,' ' A Little Tour in Ireland,' etc. Illustrated by H. G. MOON and G. Elgood. The Presentation Edition, with coloured plates, etc., handsomely bound, ios. 6d. ; Popular Edition, with frontispiece, 3s. 6d. The call for a fifteenth edition of this popular work has enabled Dean Hole to thoroughly revise and largely to rewrite the book, bringing the infor- mation in it well up to date. Advantage has also been taken of the oppor- tunity to respond to the frequently-expressed wishes of many admirers of the book for a more handsome and illustrated edition ; it has, therefore, been reprinted, and beautifully Coloured Plates have been drawn by Mr. H. G. Moon, while Mr. G. Elgood contributes charming black-and-white pictures. There is also a facsimile of a sketch by John Leech given to Dean Hole, and never before published. The book will be issued in two forms : (1) with the coloured plates, etc., at half a guinea ; and (2) with frontispiece, at 3s. 6d.Mr. Edward Arnold's List. i vol., crown 4to. OLD ENGLISH GLASSES. An Account of Glass Drinking-Vessels in England from Early Times to the end of the Eighteenth Century. With Introductory Notices of continental Glasses during the same period, Original Documents, etc. By ALBERT HARTSHORNE, Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries. Illustrated by upwards of So full-page Tinted Plates in the best style of L.thography, and several hundred outline Illustrations in the text. Super royal 4to., price Three Guineas net. The plates and outline illustrations are prepared for reproduction by Mr. W. S. Weatherly and Mr. R. Paul respectively, from full-size or scale drawings by the author of the actual drinking-vessels in nearly every instance. The text will be printed in the finest style, and the lithographic work executed by Messrs. W. Griggs and Son. The volume is now in the press, and will, it is hoped, be ready for delivery before the end of the year. The First Edition will be limited to One Thousand Copies at Three Guineas rvf>t net ,%OTf- —jfllllPr°sPectHS> giving a complete account of the principal contents of this ,»Za, , r maS>"ficenJ work, which treats of a subject never before comprehensively unde, taken for England, can be had post free on application. A TREASURY OF MINOR BRITISH POETRY. Selected and arranged, with Notes, by J. CHURTON COLLINS. Crown 8vo., ys. 6d. In compiling this volume Mr. Churton Collins has been influenced by a desire to form a collection of poetry containing many charming pieces hitherto ignored in similar works.. It is believed that compilers of anthologies have confined themselves too much to a few standard authors, and that there are a number of less-known writers who have composed one or two poems quite as fine as anything by the great masters. The present selection will reveal a mine of hitherto unsuspected treasures to many lovers of English Poetry. EARLY ENGLISH FURNITURE. An Account of the Famous English Cabinet-makers, With numerous fine Illustrations of their Work. By Mrs. Warren Clouston.9 Mr. Edward Arnold's List. THE CRUISE OF THE ' ANTARCTIC' TO THE SOUTH POLAR REGIONS. By H. J. BULL, A Member of the Expedition. With frontispiece by W. L. Wyllie, A.R.A., and numerous full-page illustra* tions by W. G. BURN-MURDOCH. Demy 8vo., 15s. 'The book is one of adventure in another besides the commercial sense, and as a record of Antarctic exploration one of the most attractive in print.'—Daily Netus. ' In reading his narrative we feel none of the ennui and worry of the voyage. The author's fun lightens up in a most welcome way a tale which has in it much that is intrinsically interesting. '—Scotsman. PERSIA REVISITED. With Remarks on H.I.M. Mozuffer-ed-Din Shah, and the Present Situation in Persia (1896). By General Sir T. E. GORDON, K.C.I.E., C.B., C.S I , Formerly Military Attache and Oriental Secretary to the British Legation at Teheran, Author of 1 The Roof of the World,' etc. Demy 8vo., with full-page illustrations, 10s. 6d. ' A book replete with first-hand knowledge, and one that must for the present be regarded as indispensable to an adequate acquaintance with the condition and prospects of Persia.'—Aberdeen Free Press. THE EARLY CHARTERED COMPANIES, A.D. 1296-1858. By GEORGE CAWSTON, Barrister-at-Law, ANt> A. H. KEANE, F.R.G.S. Large crown 8vo., with frontispiece, 10s. 6db 1 Mr. Cawston claims to have lighted on an almost unexplored field of research, and it must be conceded that his volume furnishes a great deal of interesting information which without its aid must for the most part have been sought for in sources not accessible to ordinary readers.'—Daily News.10 Mr. Edward Arnold's List. THE EXPLORATION OF THE CAUCASUS. By DOUGLAS W. FRESHFIELD Lately President of the Alpine Club, and Honorary Secretary of the Royal Geographical Society. With Contributions by H. W. Holder, J. G. Cockin, H. Woolley, M. Db Dechy, and Prof. Bonney, D.Sc, F.R.S. Illustrated by 3 Panoramas, 74 Full-page Photogravures, about 140 Illustra- tions in the text, chiefly from Photographs by Vittorio Sella, and 4 Original Maps, including the first authentic map of the Caucasus specially prepared from unpublished sources by Mr. Freshfield. In two volumes, large 4to., 600 pages, Three Guineas net. ' We can only say in a word, that a more interesting, more vivid, more conscientious more exhaustive, and in parts more thrilling, account of a region as yet comparatively un- known has never come before us. No record of exploration has ever been published in this country m so splendid a material form, and, beyond contradiction, no pictures of a^nhffV0 llllls„tr^^the exploits of climbers have approached the very numerous photo- graphs of Signor Sella. —Daily Chronicle. • Mr Freshfield's work on the Caucasus is not merely the most important mountaineering book of the year, but probably the most important that has been published since the timt of Tyndall and Ball Every part of Mr. Freshfield's book is solid, and will remain perma- nently valuable. It brings within two volumes the record of everything that has been done and the substance of everything that has been learnt during the first twenty-eight years of Caucasian exploration by expert climbers.'— Manchester Guardian. * Two superb volumes. No book of travel or exploration within our remembrance has disclosed such a wealth of illustration as the one now before us, in which are depicted every Caucasian range and mountain of any moment with perfect clearness and sharpness There is not one blurred photograph or drawing in the whole collection. Nothing has been omitted that could impart completeness to this magnificent work.'— Daily Telegraph. • What singles these magnificent volumes out on a very brief inspection from all climbing literature is that for once ihe illustrations are worthy of the text. If the publishers had done nothing beyond giving us these magnificent reproductions from the cameras which Signor Sella and others have carried upwards of 16,000 feet above the sea, they would still be entitled to our praise and gratitude. Mr. Freshfield has given us truly one of the most delightful and inspiring works upon the "everlasting hills " which any library can hold, and it is produced and illustrated with a s,umptuousness which it is a pleasure to find so well bestowed.'—Birmingham Post. 'The two volumes are "great," not only from the prosaic standpoint of measurement and avoirdupois, but pre-eminently so in the more meritorious sense of representing infinite labour in the amassing of materials at first hand, and high literary and artistic skill in blending letterpress and photography in a way calculated to extort the admiration even of the most stoical reader.'—Liverpool Post. ' A princely example of British scholarship.'—Glasgow Herald. ' Enough, perhaps, has been said in recommendation of these volumes, which are instruc- tive without being didactic, full of novel information without any suggestion of guide-book literature, which contain most graphic descriptions of the scenery, without ever descending to word-painting, and which contrive to impart freshness even to the well-worn theme of mountain and glacier expeditions. It would be difficult to praise too highly the map. Only a few in this country will be able to appreciate the geographical knowledge and the infinite labour that the construction of this map must have cost. For the first time the topography of this great mountain-chain from Elbruz to Kasbek is laid down in its entirety with accuracy, and the extent of the glacial system is clearly demonstrated on a scale of about 3$ miles to one inch.'—Mr. Clinton Dent, in The Daily Nevus.ii Mr. Edward Arnold's List. FOURTH EDITION. FIRE AND SWORD IN THE SUDAN. A Personal Narrative of Fighting and Serving the Dervishes, 1879-1895. By SLATIN PASHA, Colonel in the Egyptian Army, formerly Governor and Commandant of the Troops in Darfur. Translated and Edited by Major F. R. Wingate, R.A., D.S.O., Author of ' Mahdiism. and the Egyptian Soudan,' etc. Fully Illustrated by R. TALBOT Kelly. Royal 8vo., One Guinea net. ' Whether Slatin's work is more important and attractive as a powerful exhortation on a subject of the greatest political importance and of special national significance from the noble English blood spilt in the Sudan, or as a chapter of human experience wherein truth far surpassed fiction in hair-breadth escapes and deeds of daring beyond what seemed possible, it would be difficult to decide ; but the whole result is one that places this volume on a shelf of its own, not merely as the book of the day, but as the authority for all time on the great Mahommedan upheaval in the Sudan, which was accompanied by an amount of human slaughter and suffering that defies calculation.' — Times. ' It would be hard to name a fictitious narrative of more thrilling interest than this true story of Colonel Slatin Pasha's captivity in the Sudan and escape from the terrors which have marked the rule of the atrocious Khalifa Abdullahi.'—Standard. ' Here is a work on matters of contemporary fact, which for romance, colour, adven- ture, and complexity and intensity of human feeling, outdoes many a novel by the masters of the art of fiction.'—St. James's Gazette. ' Absolutely unique. Were we to try to extract, or even notice, all the striking things in this book, we should fill our paper. '—Spectator. ' Told with a vividness and vigour that will carry you away.'—Truth. ' The story told in this work is one of enthralling interest. In the whole modern literature of travel and adventure we cannot call to mind a work so absorbing as this ' —Manchester Guardian. 'An exceedingly fascinating and engaging book, which is not surpassed in interest by any other of the kind that has been published for many years. It is written with rare ability and force. The narrative throughout is vivid, graphic, and picturesque abounding in dramatic incident and striking character.'—Leeds Merctiry. ' °ne'°l the,most interesting books of the year, or, indeed, of the past decade.'- Daily lelegraph. 1 ^\ St°ry ofthf experiences of Slatin Pasha as a ruler, a soldier, and a captive in the Sudan is one of the most striking romances of modern times. The return of this distinguished officer, after a disappearance of eleven years and more, from what lather Ohrwalder with b.tter recollections calls a "living grave " and the neriW InS* ?ffl;ght' f°rm " themsdves an exfrfordTnary tale Eu t the interest of the book is much increased by the importance which, in the minds of English people attaches to the melancholy events in which he bore a pan and by the ^l^^l^l^ *» *« ^ «*« the sto'ry of thereatMr. Edward Arnold's List. 12 WAGNER'S HEROINES. BRUNNHILDA—SENTA —ISOLDA. By CONSTANCE MAUD, Author of ' Wagner's Heroes.' Illustrated by J. W. Maud. Crown 8vo., 5s. SECOND EDITION. WAGNER'S HEROES. PARSIFAL—TANNHAUSER—LOHENGRIN - HANS SACHS. By CONSTANCE MAUD. Illustrated by Granville Fell. Crown 8vo., 5c. ' Miss Maud has done for the Shakespeare of music what Charles Lamb once did for the real Shakespeare. —Daily lelegraph. ' Constance Maud has elected to convey into simple language the histories of "Wagner s Heroes," and has succeeded admirably. *-Black arid White. Sl°neS 01 NEW AND POPULAR EDITION. SEVENTY YEARS OF IRISH LIFE. By the late W. R. LE FANU. Crown 8vo., 6s. ' It will delight all readers—English and Scotch no less than Irish Nationalist* nn less than Unionists, Romnn Catholics no less than Orangemen.'-7V;^ FIFTY LUNCHES. By COLONEL KENNEY HERBERT, A uthor of' Common-Sense Cookery,' etc. Crown 8vo., cloth, 2s. 6d. FANCY DRESSES DESCRIBED. By ARDERN HOLT. An Alphabetical Dictionary of Fancy Costumes. With full accounts of the Dresses. About 60 Illustrations by Lilliai* YOUNG. Many of them coloured. One vol., demy 8vo. A TEXT-BOOK OF NURSING FOR HOME AND HOSPITAL USE. By C. WEEKS SHAW. Revised and largely re-written by W. Radford, House Surgeon at the Poplar Hospital, under the supervision of Sir Dyce Duckworth M.D., F.R.C.P. Fully illustrated, crown 8vo.13 Mr. Edward Arnold's List. NEW FICTION. A RELUCTANT EVANGELIST, AND OTHER STORIES. By ALICE SPINNER, Author of ' Ltccilla,' ' A Study in Colour,' etc. Crown 8vo., 6s. INTERLUDES. By MAUD OXENDEN. Crown 8vo., 6s. THE BAYONET THAT CAME HOME. By N. WYNNE WILLIAMS, Author of ' Tales of Modem Greece.' Crown 8vo., 3s. 6d. New Work by the Author of ' Into the Highways and Hedges.' WORTH WHILE. By F. F. MONTRESOR, Author of ' Into the Highways and Hedges,' ' The One who looked on; etc. One vol., crown 8vo., cloth, 2s. 6d. ' Two most pathetic and beautiful stories make up this little volume. The writer is to be congratulated on the delicate beauty of her stories.'—Liverftvol Mercury. ' Both the stories in this volume are of very superior quality. The characters are distinctly original, and the workmanship is admirable.'—Glasgow Herald.14 Mr. Edward Arnold's List. RECENT WORKS OF FICTION. {See also p. 23.) A New Story by the Author of ' The Red Badge of Courage ' GEORGE'S MOTHER. By STEPHEN CRANE. Author of ' 7he Red Badge of Courage,' etc. Cloth, 2S. «^?wilnf!ST?k St?Phen.Cr^e,scores heavily. It is a swatch torn from the great neb of city life, a picture in which every touch reveals the true literary workman. n.t,5S 1 gnpS r ? rt cl?se ; itS characters are t° the life, and here and .here are caught gleams of humour that complete the symmetry of the paces. The already enviable reputation of the author of "The Red Badge of Courage " will be heightened by this small volume.'—Aberdeen Free Press. HADJIRA. A Turkish Love Story. By 'ADALET.' One vol., crown 8vo., cloth, 6s. ' Certainly one of the most interesting and valuable works of fiction issued from the press for a long time past. Even if we were to regard the book as an ordinary novel, we could commend it heartily; but its great value lies in the fact that it reveals to us a hidden world, and does so with manifest fidelity. But the reader must learn for himself the lesson which this remarkable and fascinating book teaches.'—Speaker. ' One of the best stories of the season.'—Daily Chronicle. By the Author of ' The Apotheosis of Mr. Tyrawley.' A MASK AND A MARTYR. By E. LIVINGSTON PRESCOTT, One vol., crown 8vo., cloth, 6s. 'A story which, once read, will never be forgotten.'—Manchester Guardian. 'This is an undeniably clever book. A picture of self-sacrifice so complete and so enduring is a rare picture in fiction, and has rarely been more ably or more finely drawn. This singular and pathetic story is told all through with remarkable restraint, and shows a strength and skill of execution which place its author high among the novel-writers of the day.'—Westminster Gazette. THE BONDWOMAN. A Story of the Northmen in Lakeland. By W. G. COLLINGWOOD, Author of ' Thorstein of the Mere,' ' The Life and Work of John Ruskin,' etc. Cloth, i6mo., 3s. 6d. 'As for the thrilling details of the plot, and the other sterling charms of the little work, we must refer our readers to its pages, especially those of them who may be touring, or contemplating a tour, in Westmorland and Cumberland.'—Leeds Mercury.Mr. Edward Arnold's List. 15 NEW BOOKS FOR YOUNG PEOPLE. (See also p. 26.) HOW DICK AND MOLLY SAW ENGLAND. By M. H. CORNWALL LEGH, Author of1 How Dick and Molly we?it Round the World.' With numerous full-page Illustrations. Crown 4to., 15s. TWO NEW BOOKS BY KIRK MUNROE. SNOW-SHOES AND SLEDGES. A Sequel to 'The Fur Seal's Tooth.' By KIRK MUNROE. Finely Illustrated, 5s. RICK DALE. By KIRK MUNROE. Finely Illustrated, 5s. TWO NEW VOLUMES OF THE CHILDREN'S HOUR SERIES. THE PALACE ON THE MOOR. By E. DAVENPORT ADAMS. With full-page Illustrations, 2s. 6d. TOBY'S PROMISE. By A. M. HOPKINSON, With full-page Illustrations, 2s. 6d. Other Volumes in the Children s Hour Series. MASTER MAGNUS. By Mrs. E. M. FIELD. With full-page Illustrations, 2s. 6d. MY DOG PLATO. By M. H. CORNWALL LEGH. With full-page Illustrations, 2s. 6d.i6 Mr. Edward Arnold's List. TWO NE W VOLUMES OF THE CHILDREN'S FA VOURITE SERIES. Each fully Illustrated, price 2s. ; gilt edges, 2s. 6d. MY BOOK OF HEROISM. MY BOOK OF INVENTIONS. NEW AND CHEAPER EDITIONS. GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOLS. Eton. Harrow. Winchester. Rugby. Westminster. Marlborough. Cheltenham. Haileybury. Clifton. Charterhouse. With nearly One Hundred fine Illustrations by the best artists. Large imperial i6mo., cloth gilt, 3s. 6d. • As to the suitability of the book for prize or present there can be no two opinions. We cordially recommend it to the notice of headmasters. '—Educational Review. TALES FROM HANS ANDERSEN. With over Thirty original Illustrations by E. A. Lemann. A beautiful volume, 4to., 3s. 6d. ' Miss Lemann has entered into the spirit of these most delightful of fairy tales, and makes the book specially attractive by its dainty and descriptive illustrations.'— Saturday Review. ' A very enchanting gift book for young people, Hans Andersen's delightful and ever-new stories being illustrated with rare grace and charm.'—Lady's Pictorial. THE SNOW QUEEN, And Other Tales from Hans Andersen. With over Thirty original Illustrations by E. A. Lemann. Uniform with the above volume, 3s. 6d. ' The success which attended the publication, last year, of the first series of Hans Andersen's Fairy Tales, has led to an issue of a fresh series, illustrated by the same artist. So we have again a most exquisite book.'—Spectator. THE BATTLES OF FREDERICK THE GREAT. Extracted from Carlyle's History of Frederick the Great, and Edited by CYRIL RANSOME, M.A., Professor of History at the Yorkshire College, Leeds. With numerous Illustrations by Adolph Menzel. Square 8vo., 3s. 6d. ' Carlyle's battle-pieces are models of care and of picturesque writing, and it was a happy thought to disinter them from the bulk of the " History of Frederick." The illustrations are very spirited.'—Journal of Education,Mr. Edward Arnold's List. 17 TRAVEL, SPORT, AND EXPLORATION. Balfour—TWELVE HUNDRED MILES IN A WAGGON. A Nar- rative of a Journey in Cape Colony, the Transvaal, and the Chartered Company's Territories. By Alice Blanche Balfour. With nearly forty original Illustrations from Sketches by the Author, and a Map. Second edition. Demy 8vo., cloth, 16s. ' A charming record of a most interesting journey.'—Spectator. Beynon-WITH KELLY TO CHITRAL. By Lieutenant W. G. L. Beynon, D.S.O., 3rd Goorkha Rifles, Staff Officer to Colonel Kelly with the Relief Force. With Maps, Plans, and Illustrations. Second edition. Demy 8vo., 7s. 6d. Bull—THE CRUISE OF THE ANTARCTIC. (Seepage 9.) Colvile—THE LAND OF THE NILE SPRINGS. By Colonel Sir Henry Colvile, K.C.M.G., C.B., recently British Commissioner in Uganda. With Photogravure Frontispiece, 16 full-page Illustrations and 2 Maps. Demy 8vo., 16s. 'One of the most faithful and entertaining books of adventure that has appeared since Burton's days.'—National Observer, Custance-RIDING RECOLLECTIONS AND TURF STORIES. By Henry Custance, three times winner of the Derby. One vol., crown 8vo., cloth, 2s. 6d. Freshfield—EXPLORATION OF THE CAUCASUS. (Seepage 10.) Gordon—PERSIA REVISITED. (Seepage 9.) Hole—A LITTLE TOUR IN AMERICA. By the Very Rev. S. Reynolds Hole, Dean of Rochester, Author of 'The Memories of Dean Hole,' 'A Book about Roses,' etc. With numerous Illustrations. Demy 8vo., 16s. Hole—A LITTLE TOUR IN IRELAND. (Seepage 5.) Maxwell—THE SPORTSMAN'S LIBRARY. (Seepage 4.) Pike—THROUGH THE SUB-ARCTIC FOREST. (See page 3.) Pollok —FIFTY YEARS' REMINISCENCES OF INDIA. (See page 3.) Portal—THE BRITISH MISSION TO UGANDA. By the late Sir Gerald Portal, K.C.M.G. Edited by Rennell Rodd, C.M.G. With an Introduction by the Right Honourable Lord Cromer, G.C.M.G. Illustrated from photos taken during the Expedition by Colonel Rhodes. Demy 8vo., 21s. Portal—MY MISSION TO ABYSSINIA. By the late Sir Gerald H. Portal, C.B. With Map and Illustrations. Demy 8vo., 15s. Slatin—FIRE AND SWORD IN THE SUDAN. (Seepage n.) Smith-THROUGH UNKNOWN AFRICAN COUNTRIES. (See page 2.) Stone-IN AND BEYOND THE HIMALAYAS. (Seepage 3.)Mr. Edward Arnold's List. i8 AMERICAN SPORT AND TRAVEL. These books, selected from (he Catalogue of MESSRS. Rand McNai.i.y & Co., the well- known publishers of Chicago, have been placed in Mr. Edward Arnold's hands under the impression that many British Travellers and Sportsmen may find them useful before starting on expeditions in the United States. Aldrieh—ARCTIC ALASKA AND SIBERIA; or, Eight Months with the Arctic Whalemen. By HERBERT L. Aldrich. Crown 8vo., c)oth, 4s. 6d. AMERICAN GAME FISHES. Their Habits, Habitat, and Pecu- liarities ; How, When, and Where to Angle for them. By various Writers. Cloth, 10s. 6d. Higgins—NEW GUIDE TO THE PACIFIC COAST. Santa Route. By C. A. Higgins. Crown 8vo., cloth, 4s. 6d. Leffing-well—THE ART OF WING - SHOOTING. A Practical Treatise on the Use of the Shot-gun. By W. B. Leffingweli.. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo., cloth, 4s. 6d. Shields-CAMPING AND CAMP OUTFITS. By G. O. Shields ('Coquina'). Containing also Chapters on Camp Medicine, Cookery, and How to Load a Packhorse. Crown 8vo., cloth, 5s. Shields—THE AMERICAN BOOK OF THE DOG. By various Writers. Edited by G. O. Shields (' Coquina'). Cloth, 15s. Thomas—SWEDEN AND THE SWEDES. By William Widgery Thomas, Jun., United States Minister to Sweden and Norway. With numerous Illustrations. Cloth, 16s. HISTORY AND BIOGRAPHY. Benson and Tatham—MEN OF MIGHT. Studies of Great Char- acters. By A. C. Benson, M.A., and H. F. W. Tatham, M.A., Assistant Masters at Eton College. Second Edition. Crown 8vo., cloth, 3s. 6d. Boyle—THE RECOLLECTIONS OF THE DEAN OF SALISBURY. By the Very Rev. G. D. Boyle, Dean of Salisbury. With Photogravure Portrait. 1 vol., demy 8vo., cloth, 16s. Cawston and Keane-THE EARLY CHARTERED COMPANIES. (Seepage 9.) Fowler—ECHOES OF OLD COUNTY LIFE. Recollections of Sport, Society Politics, and Farming in the Good Old Times. By J. K. Fowler, of Ayles- bury. Second Edition, with numerous Illustrations, 8vo., 10s. 6d. Also a large-paper edition, of 200 copies only, 21s. net. 'A very entertaining volume of reminiscences, full of good stories.'— Truth-19 Mr. Edward Arnold's List. Hare-MARIA EDGEWORTH : her Life and Letters. Edited by Augustus J. C. Hare, Author of' The Story of Two Noble Lives," etc. Two vols., crown 8vo., with Portraits, 16s. net. ' Mr. Hare has written more than one good book in his time, hut he has never produced anything nearly so entertaining and valuable as his latest contribution to biography and literature. —Saturday Review. Hole—THE MEMORIES OF DEAN HOLE. By the Very Rev. S. Reynolds Hole, Dean of Rochester. With the original Illustrations from sketches by Leech and Thackeray. New Edition, twelfth thousand, one vol., crown 8vo., 6s. 'One of the most delightful collections of reminiscences that this generation has seen.'—Daily Chronicle. Hole—MORE MEMORIES : Being Thoughts about England Spoken in America. By the Very Rev. S. Reynolds Hole, Dean of Rochester. With Frontispiece. Demy 8vo., 16s. ' Full alike of contagious fun and mature wisdom.'—Daily Chronicle. Hopkins—THE RELIGIONS OF INDIA. {Seepage 6.) Kay—OMARAH'S HISTORY OF YAMAN. The Arabic Text, edited, with a translation, by Henry Cassels Kay, Member of the Royal Asiatic Society. Demy 8vo., cloth, 17s. 6d. net. Knight-Bruce—MEMORIES OF MASHONALAND By the Right Rev. Bishop Kntght Bruce, formerly Bishop of Mashonaland. 8vo., 10s. 6d. 'To review this book fully is impossible, as there is not a single page devoid of interest, and all those who take an interest in South African affairs should not fail to read it. The concluding chapter of the Matabele War is quite as good as the previous ones.'—Pall Mall Gazette. Leeky—THE POLITICAL VALUE OF HISTORY. By W. E. H. Lecky, D.C.L., LL.D. An Address delivered at the Midland Institute, reprinted with additions. Crown 8vo., cloth, 2s. 6d. Le Fanu-SEVENTY YEARS OF IRISH LIFE. {Seepage 12.) Maedonald—THE MEMOIRS OF THE LATE SIR JOHN A. MACDONALD, G.C.B., First Prime Minister of Canada. Edited by Joseph Pope, his Private Secretary. With Portraits. Two vols., demy 8vo., 32s. Milner—ENGLAND IN EGYPT. By Sir Alfred Milner, K.C.B. Popular Edition, with Map, and full details of the British position and responsibilities, 7s. 6d. Milner—ARNOLD TOYNBEE. A Reminiscence. By Sir Alfred Milner, K.C.B., Author of ' England in Egypt.' Crown 8vo., buckram, 2s. 6d. ; paper, is. Oman—A HISTORY OF ENGLAND. By Charles Oman, Fellow of All Souls' College, and Lecturer in History at New College, Oxford ; Author of 'Warwick the Kingmaker,' 'A History of Greece,' etc. Crown 8vo., cloth, 4s. 6d. net. 'This is the nearest approach to the ideal School History of England which has yet been written.'20 Mr. Edward Arnold's List. Pilking-ton-IN AN ETON PLAYING FIELD. The Adventures of some old Public School Boys in East London. By E. M. S Pn kington FcaD 8vo., handsomely bound, 2s. 6d. ' ' F' Pulitzer—THE ROMANCE OF PRINCE EUGENE. An Idyll under Napoleon the First. By ALBERT Pulitzer. With numerous Photogravure Illustrations. Two vols., demy 8vo., 21s. Raleigh-ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON. By Walter Raleigh, Professor of English Literature at Liverpool University College. Second edition crown 8vo., cloth 2s. 6d. Ransome—THE BATTLES OF FREDERICK THE GREAT. {See page 16.) Rochefort—ADVENTURES OF MY LIFE. {Seepage i.) Santley—STUDENT AND SINGER. The Reminiscences of Charles Santley. New Edition, crown 8vo., cloth, 6s. Sherard—ALPHONSE DAUDET: a Biography and Critical Study. By R. H. Sherard, Editor of ' The Memoirs of Baron Meneval,' etc. With Illustra- tions. Demy 8vo., 15s. ' An excellent piece of journalism, the kind of personal journalism which is both entertaining and useful.'—Saturday Review. Tollemache—BENJAMIN JOWETT, Master of Balliol. A Personal Memoir. By the Hon. Lionel Tollemache, Author of 1 Safe Studies,' etc. Third Edition, with portrait, crown 8vo., cloth, 3s. 6d. ' A very remarkable success.'—St. Ja7iies's Gazette. Twining—RECOLLECTIONS OF LIFE AND WORK. Being the Autobiography of Louisa Twining. One vol., 8vo., cloth, 15s. LITERATURE AND BELLES LETTRES. Bell—DIANA'S LOOKING GLASS, and other Poems. By the Rev. Canon Bell, D.D., Rector of Cheltenham, and Hon. Canon of Carlisle. Crown 8vo., cloth, 5s. net. Bell—POEMS OLD AND NEW. By the Rev. Canon Bell, D.D. Cloth, 7s. 6d. Bell—THE NAME ABOVE EVERY NAME, and other Sermons. By the Rev. Canon Bell, D.D. Cloth, 5s. Bell—KLEINES HAUSTHEATER. Fifteen Little Plays in German for Children. By Mrs. Hugh Bell. Crown 8vo., cloth, 2s. Most of these little plays have been adapted from the author's ' Petit Theatre,' the remainder from a little book of English plays by the same writer entitled ' Nursery Comedies.' Butler—SELECT ESSAYS OF SAINTE BEUVE. Chiefly bearing on English Literature. Translated by A. J. Butler, Translator of * The Memoirs of Baron Marbot.' One vol., 8vo., cloth, 5s. net.Mr. Edward Arnold's List. 21 Colling-wood—THORSTEIN OF THE MERE : a Saga of the North- men in Lakeland. By W. G. Collingwood, Author of ' Life of John Ruskin,' etc. With Illustrations. Price ios. 6d. Collingwood—THE BONDWOMAN. {Seepage 14.) Collins—A TREASURY OF MINOR BRITISH POETRY. {See p. 8.) Cook—THE DEFENSE OF POESY, otherwise known as An APOLOGY FOR POETRY. By Sir Philip Sidney. Edited by A. S. Cook, Pro- fessor of English Literature in Yale University. Crown 8vo., cloth, 4s. 6d. Cook—A DEFENCE OF POETRY. By Percy Bysshe Shelley. Edited, with notes and introduction, by Professor A. S. Cook. Crown 8vo., cloth, 2S. 6d. Davidson—A HANDBOOK TO DANTE. By Giovanni A. Scar- tazzini. Translated from the Italian, with notes and additions, by Thomas Davidson, M.A. Crown 8vo., cloth, 6s. Ellaeombe—THE PLANT-LORE AND GARDEN-CRAFT OF SHAKESPEARE. (Seepage 7.) Fleming--THE ART OF READING AND SPEAKING. By the Rev. Canon Fleming, Vicar of St. Michael's, Chester Square. Second edition. Cloth, 3s. 6d. Garnett—SELECTIONS IN ENGLISH PROSE FROM ELIZABETH TO VICTORIA. Chosen and arranged by James M. Garnett, M.A. LL D. 700 pages, large crown 8vo., cloth, 7s. 6d. Gosehen-THE CULTIVATION AND USE OF IMAGINATION By the Right Hon. George Joachim Goschen. Crown 8vo., cloth, 2s. 6d. GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOLS. {Seepage 16.) Gummere—OLD ENGLISH BALLADS. Selected and Edited bv Francis B. Gummere, Professor of English in Haverford College, U.S.A. Crown 8vo., cloth, 5s. 6d. a " Harrison-STUDIES IN EARLY VICTORIAN LITERATURE Bv dorhDEIKoIsC6dARRISON' M-A"Author of 'The Choice of Books/etc- Demy8vo ■ ' L.f us s?Vat o"ce that this is a charming book. One lays it down not only delighted bv its literarv -excellence, but with something like affection for the person who wrote \C-Spectator. V Hartshorne—OLD ENGLISH GLASSES. {See page 8.) H0felr'FOR)M RRS?bE? T? WORKING MEN FROM PULPIT AND croSo 6s y Reynolds Hole, Dean of Rochester. One vol., '' A book of great interest and great excellence.'—Scotsman. HUspSeTrE_TIJEhLIF% £RT' and characters of SHAKE- ^ By HENRY N\ HYDS0N' LL'D- Editor of The Harvard Shakespeare etc. 969 pages, in two vols., large crown 8vo., cloth, 21s. onanespea^e,Mr. Edward'Arnold's List. 22 Hudson. — THE HARVARD EDITION OF SHAKESPEARE'S COMPLETE WORKS. A fine Library Edition. By Heney N. Hudson, LL.D., Author of 'The Life, Art, and Characters of Shakespeare.' In twenty volumes', large crown 8vo., cloth, £6. Also in ten volumes, ^5. Hunt—Leigh Hunt's * WHAT IS POETRY ?' An Answer to the Question, ' What is Poetry?' including Remarks on Versification. By LEIGH Hunt. Edited, with notes, by Professor A. S. Cook. Crown 8vo., cloth, 2s. 6d. Lang"—LAMB'S ADVENTURES OF ULYSSES. With an Intro- duction by Andrew Lang. Square 8vo., cloth, is. 6d. Also the Prize Edition, gilt edges, 2s. Maud—WAGNER'S HEROES and WAGNER'S HEROINES. {See page 12.) Morrison—LIFE'S PRESCRIPTION, In Seven Doses. By D. MacLaren Morrison. Crown 8vo., parchment, is. 6d. Pearson—THE CHANCES OF DEATH. {Seepage 6.) Rodd—FEDA. and other Poems, chiefly Lyrical. By Rennell Rodd, C.M.G. With etched Frontispiece. Crown 8vo., cloth, 6s. Rodd—THE UNKNOWN MADONNA, and other Poems. By Rennell Rodd, C.M.G. With Frontispiece by Richmond. Crown 8vo., cloth, 5s. Rodd—THE VIOLET CROWN, AND SONGS OF ENGLAND. By Rennell Rodd, C.M.G. With Photogravure Frontispiece. Crown 8vo., cloth, 5*. Rodd-THE CUSTOMS AND LORE OF MODERN GREECE. By Rennell Rodd, C.M.G. With 7 full-page Illustrations. 8vo., cloth, 8s. 6d. Schelling"—A BOOK OF ELIZABETHAN LYRICS. Selected and Edited by F. E. Schelling, Professor of English Literature in (he University of Pennsylvania. Crown 8vo., cloth, 5s. 6d. Schelling'—BEN JONSON'S TIMBER. Edited by Professor F. E. Schelling. Crown 8vo., cloth, 4s. Sichel—THE STORY OF TWO SALONS. Madame de Beaumont and the Suards. By Edith Sichel, Author of ' Worthingion Junior.' With Illus- trations. Large crown 8vo., cloth, 10s. 6d. ' A very good book indeed.'—Saturday Review. Thayer—THE BEST ELIZABETHAN PLAYS. Edited, with an Introduction, by William R. Thayer. 612 pages, large crown 8vo,, cloth, 7s. 6d. WINCHESTER COLLEGE. Illustrated by Herbert Marshall. With Contributions in Prose and Verse by Old Wykehamists. Demy 4to., cloth, 25s. net. A few copies of the first edition, limited to 1,000 copies, are still to be had.Mr. Edward Arnold's List. 23 FICTION. SIX SHILLING NOVELS. RELUCTANT EVANGELIST. By Alice Spinner. (Seepage 13.) INTERLUDES. By Maud Oxenden. (See page 13.) A MASK AND A MARTYR. By E. Livingston Prescott. (See page 14.) HADJIRA. By Adulet. (Seepage 14.) TOMMY ATKINS. A Tale of the Ranks. By Robert Blatchford, Author of 'A Son of the Forge,' ' Merrie England,' etc. Second Edition. Crown 8vo., cloth, 6s. ORMISDAL. A Novel. By the Earl of Dunmore, F.R.G.S., Author of ' The Pamirs.' One vol., crown 8vo., cloth, 6s. THE TUTOR'S SECRET. (Le Secret du Precepteur.) Translated from the French of Victor Cherbuliez. One vol., crown 8vo., cloth, 6s. THREE SHILLING AND SIXPENNY NOVELS. THE BAYONET THAT CAME HOME. By N. Wynne Williams (See page 13.) °NJPrJH???H0LD- B? Isabella O. Ford, Author of 'Miss Blake of Monkshalton. One vol., crown 8vo., 3s. 6d. THE MYSTERY OF THE RUE SOLY. Translated by Lady Knutsford from the French of H. de Balzac. Crown 8vo., cloth, 3s. 6d. DAVE'S SWEETHEART. By Mary Gaunt. One vol.', 8vo. cloth 3s. 6d. ' ",v"j L1WUJ| MISTHER O'RYAN. An Incident in the History of a Nation By Edward McNulty. Small 8vo., elegantly bound, 3s. 6d. ' ' An extremely well written satire of the possibilities of blarney and hn^.'-Pall Mall Gazette STHPo?ENd ?EBfARX; The St0ry of a Venture ^ Ethics. By 'the Hon. and Rev. James Adderley, formerly Head of the Ovfnrd w„„e V, . Church Mission, Bethnal Green. Twenty-Second'Thousand15i?* ^ Chrifl bound, 3s. 6d. Also in paper cover, is. 1Jl°usand. Small 8vo., elegantly ' Let us express our thankfulness at encountering for once in t .u i_ Saturday Review. ^umenng ior once in a way an author who can amuse us.'— HALF-A-CROWN NOVELS. WORTH WHILE. By F. F. Montresor. (Seepage 13.) LOVE-LETTERS OF A WORLDLY WOMAN. By Mrs W K ' One of the cleverest books that ever a woman wrote.'—Queen.Mr. Edward Arnold's List. 24 FICTION— Continued. THAT FIDDLER FELLOW : A Tale of St. Andrews. By Horace G. Hutchinson, Author of 1 My Wife's Politics,' ' Golf,' ' Creatures of Circum- stance,' etc. Crown 8vo., cloth, 2s. 6d. TWO SHILLINGS. GEORGE'S MOTHER. By Stephen Crane. (Seepage 14.) COUNTRY HOUSE—PASTIMES. Ellacombe—IN A GLOUCESTERSHIRE GARDEN. By the Rev. H. N. Ellacombe, Vicar of Bitton, and Honorary Canon of Bristol. Author of ' Plant Lore and Garden Craft of Shakespeare.' With new illustrations by Major E. B. Ricketts. Second Edition. Crown 8vo., cloth, 6s. Hole-A BOOK ABOUT THE GARDEN AND THE GARDENER. By the Very Rev. S. Reynolds Hole, Dean of Rochester. Second edition. Crown 8vo., 6s. Hole—A BOOK ABOUT ROSES. (Seepage 7.) Brown—PLEASURABLE POULTRY-KEEPING. By E. Brown, F. L.S. Fully illustrated. One vol., crown 8vo., cloth, 2s. 6d. ' Mr. Brown has established for himself a unique position in regard to this subject, and what he has to say'is not only sound counsel, but is presented in a very readable form.'—Nottingham Daily Guardian. Brown—POULTRY-KEEPING AS AN INDUSTRY FOR FARMERS AND COTTAGERS. By Edward Brown. Fully illustrated. Second edition. Demy 4to., cloth, 6s. Brown—INDUSTRIAL POULTRY-KEEPING. By Edward Brown. Illustrated. Paper boards, is. A small handbook chiefly intended for cottagers and allotment-holders. Brown-POULTRY FATTENING. By E. Brown, F.L.S. Fully illustrated. New Edition. Crown 8vo., is. 6d. White—PLEASURABLE BEE-KEEPING. By C. N. White, Lecturer to the County Councils of Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire, etc. Fully illustrated. One vol., crown 8vo., cloth, 2s. 6d. Gossin-THE CHESS POCKET MANUAL. By G. H. D. Gossip. A Pocket Guide, with numerous Specimen Games and Illustrations. Small 8vo., as. 6d. Cunningham-THE DRAUGHTS POCKET MANUAL. By J. G. CunnTngham. An Introduction to the Game in all its branches. Small 8vo., with numerous diagrams, 2s. 6d. Kennev - Herbert - COMMON - SENSE COOKERY : based on Modern English and Continental Principles, Worked out in Detail. By Colonel A Kenney Herbert (' Wyvera'). Large crown 8vo., over Soo pp., 7s. 6d. Kpnnpv - Herbert — FIFTY BREAKFASTS: containing a great K ^ ety of New fnd Simple Recipes for Breakfast Dishes. By Colonel KENNEY- H'eRBERT (' Wyvern '). Small 8vo., as. 6d.Mr. Edward Arnold's List. 25 Kenney - Herbert — FIFTY DINNERS. By Colonel Kenney- Herbert. Small 8vo., cloth, 2s. 6d. Kenney - Herbert — FIFTY LUNCHES. By Colonel Kenney- Herbert. Small 8vo., cloth, 2s. 6d. {Seepage 12.) Shorland—CYCLING FOR HEALTH AND PLEASURE. By L. H. Porter, Author of 'Wheels and Wheeling,' etc. Revised and edited by F. W. Shorland, Amateur Champion 1892-93-94. With numerous Illustrations, small 8vo., 2s. 6d. SCIENCE, PHILOSOPHY, ETC. Bryan-THE MARK IN EUROPE AND AMERICA. A Review of the Discussion on Early Land Tenure. By Enoch A. Bryan, A.M., President of Vincennes University, Indiana. Crown 8vo , cloth, 4s. 6d. Burg-ess—POLITICAL SCIENCE AND COMPARATIVE CONSTI- TUTIONAL LAW. By John W. Burgess, Ph.D., LL.D., Dean of the University Faculty of Political Science in Columbia College, U.S.A. In two volumes. Demy 8vo., cloth, 25s. Fawcett—THE RIDDLE OF THE UNIVERSE. Being an Attempt to determine the First PrincipK s of Metaphysics considered as an Inquiry into the Conditions and Import of Consciousness. By Edward Douglas Fawcett. One vol., demy 8vo., 14s. Hopkins—THE RELIGIONS OF INDIA. (Seepage 6.) Ladd—LOTZE'S PHILOSOPHICAL OUTLINES. Dictated Portions of the Latest Lectures (at Gottingen and Berlin) of Hermann Lotze. Translated and edited by George T. Ladd, Professor of Philosophy in Yale College. About 180 pages in each volume. Crown 8vo., cloth, 4s. each. Vol. I. Metaphysics. Vol. II. Philosophy of Religion. Vol. III. Practical Philosophy. Vol. IV. Psychology. Vol. V. Esthetics. Vol. VI. Logic. THE JOURNAL OF MORPHOLOGY. Edited by C. O. Whitman, Professor of Biology in Clark University, U.S.A. Three numbers in a volume of 100 to 150 large 410. pages, with numerous plates. Single numbers, 17s. 6d. ; sub- scription to the volume of three numbers, 45s. Volumes I. to X. can now be obtained, and the first number of Volume XI. is ready. Morgan—ANIMAL LIFE AND INTELLIGENCE. By Professor Si,,^™ MoR,GAN- F-G-S- Principal of University College, Bristol. With 40 clotn ios115 3 Photo-etched Frontispiece. Second Edition. Demy 8vo , Morg-an—HABIT AND INSTINCT. (See page 6.) M°m?rga7TfHgEs S?FGi°F CONDUCT. By Professor C. Lloyd morgan, I-.G.S. Cheaper Edition. Large crown 8vo., 3s. 6d. M°SonA7PFScYsCHS;L?G? F°R TEACHERS. By Professor C. Llovd Morgan, F.G.S. With a Preface by J. G. Fitch, M.A., LL.D., late one of H M Chief Inspectors of Training Colleges. One vol., crown 8vo., cloth, 3s 6dI net Young--A GENERAL ASTRONOMY. By Charles A. Young Professor of Astronomy in the College of New Tersev Associate of the r™,u nomicl Society, Author of The Sun, etc. In one vol, 550 pages w h \l I lura' 12s 6d SUppIeme»ted with th* necessary tables. ^o&Vvo" U ^ofc0',26 Mr. Edward Arnold's List. ILLUSTRATED GIFT BOOKS, ETC. *** For further particulars of books under this heading see special Catalogue of Gift Books for Presents and Prizes. WINCHESTER COLLEGE. Illustrated by Herbert Marshall. With Contributions in Prose and Verse by Old Wykehamists. Demy 410., cloth, 25s. net. A few copies of the first edition, limited to i.ooo copies, are still to be had. GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOLS. Eton — Harrow — Winchester — Rugby — Westminster — Marlborough — Cheltenham — Haileybury — Clifton—Charterhouse. With nearly a Hundred Illustrations by the best artists. Cheaper edition. One vol., large imperial i6mo., handsomely bound, 35. 6d. A LITTLE TOUR IN IRELAND. By An Oxonian (the Very Rev. S. R. Hole, Dean of Rochester). With nearly forty Illustrations by John Leech, including the famous steel Frontispiece of the 'Claddagh.' One vol., large crown 8vo., 6s. WILD FLOWERS IN ART AND NATURE. By J. C. L. Sparkes, Principal of the National Art Training School, South Kensington, and F. W. Bur- bidge, Curator of the University Botanical Gardens, Dublin. With 21 Full-page Coloured Plates by H. G. Moon. Royal 4to., handsomely bound, gilt edges, 21s. BOOKS FOR THE YOUNG. SNOW-SHOES AND SLEDGES. By Kirk Munroe. Fully illus- trated. Crown 8vo., cloth, 5s. RICK DALE. By Kirk Munroe. Fully illustrated. Crown 8vo., cloth, 5s. ERIC THE ARCHER. By Maurice H. Hervey. With numerous full-page Illustrations. Handsomely bound, crown 8vo., 5s. THE FUR SEAL'S TOOTH. By Kirk Munroe. Fully illustrated. Crown 8vo., cloth, 5s. HOW DICK AND MOLLY WENT ROUND THE WORLD. By M. H. Cornwall Legh. With numerous Illustrations. Fcap. 4to., cloth, 5s. HOW DICK AND MOLLY SAW ENGLAND. By M. H. Cornwall Legh With numerous Illustrations. Foolscap 4to., 5s. DR. GILBERT'S DAUGHTERS. By Margaret Harriet Mathews. Illustrated by Chris. Hammond. Crown 8vo., cloth, 5s. THE REEF OF GOLD. By Maurice H. Hervey. With numerous full-page Illustrations, handsomely bound. Gilt edges, 5s. BAREROCK; or, The Island of Pearls. By Henry Nash With numerous Illustrations by Lancelot Speed. Large crown 8vo., handsomely bound, gilt edges, 5s.27 THREE SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE EACH. TALES FROM HANS ANDERSEN. With nearly 40 Original Illus- trations by E. A. Lemann. Small 4to., handsomely bound in cloth, 3s. 6d. THE SNOW QUEEN, and other Tales. By Hans Christian Andersen. Beautifully illustrated by Miss E. A. Lemann. Small 4to., handsomely bound, 3s. 6d. HUNTERS THREE. By Thomas W. Knox, Author of 'The Boy Travellers,' etc. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo., cloth, 3s. 6d. THE SECRET OF THE DESERT. By E. D. Fawcett. With numerous full-page Illustrations. Crown 8vo., cloth, 3s. 6d. JOEL : A BOY OF GALILEE. By Annie Fellows Johnston. With ten full-page Illustrations. Crown 8vo., cloth, 3s. 6d. THE MUSHROOM CAVE. By Evelyn Raymond. With Illustrations. Crown 8vo., cloth, 3s. 6d. THE DOUBLE EMPEROR. By W. Laird Clowes, Author of «The Great Peril,' etc. Illustrated. Crown 8vo., 3s. 6d. SWALLOWED BY AN EARTHQUAKE. By E. D. Fawcett. IUus- trated. Crown 8vo., 3s. 6d. HARTMANN THE ANARCHIST; or, The Doom of the Great City. By E. Douglas Fawcett. With sixteen full-page and numerous smaller Illustrations by F. T. Jane. Crown 8vo., cloth, 3s. 6d. ANIMAL SKETCHES : a Popular Book of Natural History. By Pro- fessor C. Lloyd Morgan, F.G.S. Crown 8vo., cloth, 3s. 6d. TWO SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE EACH. THE CHILDREN'S HOUR SERIES. {Seepage 15.) FRIENDS OF THE OLDEN TIME. By Alice Gardner, Lecturer in History at New nham College, Cambridge. Second Edition. Illustrated. Square 8vo., 2s. 6d. TWO SHILLINGS EACH. THE CHILDREN'S FAVOURITE SERIES. A Charming Series of Juvenile Books, each plentifully Illustrated, and written in simple language to please young readers. Handsomely bound, and designed to form an attractive and enter- taining series of gift-books for presents and prizes. The utmost care has been taken to maintain a thoroughly healthy tone throughout the Series, combined with enter- taining and interesting reading. Price is. each ; or gilt edges, is. 6d. My Book of Wonders. My Book of Travel Stories. My Book of Adventures. My Book of the Sea. My Book of Fables. Deeds of Gold. My Book of Heroes. My Book of Perils. My Book of Fairy Tales. My Book of History Tales. My Story Book of Animals. Rhymes for You and Me. My Book of Great Inventions.Mr. Edward Arnold's List. 28 PICTURES OF BRITISH WILD ANIMALS. For Decoration and 3S5&S£d #£%&SLS&^Series of p,clures in Wal-Co1--. The following is a list of the Series : 1. Hare. 2. Rabbit. Weasel. 3. Rat. Mouse. Bat. 4 Hedgehog. Snail. Slug. Spider. Worm. 5. Otter. 6. Dormouse and Adder. 7. Deer. 8 Snake and Mole. 9. Bees. 10. Water-rat. Frog. 11. Squirrel. 12. Fox. Toad. Newt. The size of each plate is about 15J by ioJ inches. The plates are supplied singly at the tollowing prices: Unmounted, 9d. ; mounted on boards, with metal edges, 15* by 21 inches is. 6d. net. ; framed and mounted (unglazed), 3s. net. PICTURES OF BRITISH FISHES. For Decoration and Object Lessons. This is an entirely new and very beautiful series, designed by Mr. Charles Whymper, the well-known artist. Great ca;e has been exercised in selecting repre- sentative types of the fish that are found in the rivers and seas of the British Isles, and it is confidently believed that such accurate and faithful pictures of them have never hitherto been exhibited. 1- Herring. 2. Cod. 3. Haddock. Sprat. Mackerel. The following is a list of the Series 4. Plaice. Lobster. Crab. 5. Salmon. Trout. 6. Pike. 7. Eels. 8. Bream Stickleback. Minnow. . Perch. Roach. The size of each plate is about 15J inches by 10J. The plates are supplied singly at the following prices: unmounted, gd. net; mounted on boards with metal edges, about 15J by 21 inches, is. 6d. net; framjd and mounted (unglazed), 3s. net. PICTURES OF BIRDS. For the Decoration of Home and Schools. List of Coloured Plates : Blue Tit. Thrush. Chaffinch. Bullfinch. Swallow. Yellowhammer. Skylark. Blackbird. Sparrow. Waterwagtail. Starling. Robin. The Pictures can be supplied in the following styles : Unmounted, 6d. per Plate ; Set of 12, in envelope, 6s. Mounted, Single Plates, mounted on boards, 12 by 15 inches, eye- letted and strung, is. each ; Sets of 3 Plates, mounted together on boards, 34 by 15 inches, eyeletted and strung, 2s. 6d. each. Framed, Single Plates, mounted and framed, 25. each ; Sets of 3 Plates, mounted and framed together, 4s. 6d. each. All the above prices are net. WILD FLOWER PICTURES. For the Decoration of Home and School. Twenty-one Beautifully-coloured Plates, issued in the same style and at the same prices as the ' Birds.' Honeysuckle. Forget-me-Not. Convolvulus. Hawthorn. Lychnis. Harebell. Daisy. Poppy. Cornflower. Iris. Rose. Buttercup. Heather. Water-Lily. Foxglove. Cowslip. Bluebell. Primrose. Violet. Daffodil. Anemone.29 Mr. Edward Arnold's List. THE INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION SERIES. THE INTELLECTUAL AND MORAL DEVELOPMENT OF THE CHILD. By Gabriel Campayre. TEACHING THE LANGUAGE-ARTS. Speech, Reading, Composition. By B. A. Hinsdale, Ph.D., LL.D., University of Michigan. 4s. 6d. THE PSYCHOLOGY OE THE NUMBER, AND ITS APPLICATION TO METHODS OF TEACHING ARITHMETIC. By James A. McLellan, A.M., and John Dewey, Ph.D 6s THE SONGS AND MUSIC OF FROEBEL'S MOTHER PLAY. By Susan E. Blow 6s. ' THE MOTTOES AND COMMENTARIES OF FROEBEL'S MOTHER PLAY. By Susan E. Blow and H. R. Eliot. 6s. BOW TO STUDY AND TEACH HISTORY. By B. A. Hinsdale, Ph.D., LL.D. FROEBEL'S PEDAGOGICS OF THE XINDERGARTEN ; or, His Ideas concerning the Play and Playthings of the Child. Translated by J. Jarvis. Crown 8vo cloth 6s THE EDUCATION OF THE GREEK PEOPLE, AND ITS INFLUENCE ON CIVILIZA- TION. By Thomas Davidson. Crown 8vo.. cloth, 6s. SYSTEMATIC SCIENCE TEACHING. By Edward G. Howe. Crown 8vo., EVOLUTION OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM IN MASSACHUSETTS. By George H. Martin. Crown 8vo., cloth, 6s. " THE INFANT MIND; or, Mental Development in the Child. Translated from the German of W. Preyer, Professor of Physiology in the University of Jena. Crown 8vo cloth, 4s. 6d. J ENGLISH EDUCATION IN THE ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY SCHOOLS WW W*.AAC SHAAR^LESf.> LL.D., President of Haverford College, U.S.A. Crown 8vo., cloth, 4s 6d'. EMILE or, A Treatise on Education. By Jean Jacques Rousseau. Translated Crown 8vo ^loth 5 PAYNE' Ph D'' LL'D-' Pres[dmt °f ^ N°rmal CoIleSe> U"S-A- EDUCATION FROM A NATIONAL STANDPOINT. T.anslated from the French of CrownD8vo°UcTothE7sy6T J> Greenstreet> M-A- Master of the Marling School, Stroud. THE MORAL INSTRUCTION OF CHILDREN. By Felix Adler President of the Ethical Society of New York. Crown 8vo., cloth 6s ADLER, President THE PHILOSOPHY OF EDUCATION. By Johann Karl Rosenkranz, Doctor of a ^^^A^r^iste'r?. rrtit^rvrcloth'6s- THE VENTILATION AND WARMING OF SCHOOL BUILDINGS. With Plans and nSXgSFS. By GlLBERT B. Morrison. Crown 8vo., 4s. 6d. S a"d FROEBEL'S 'EDUCATION OF MAN.' Translated by W. N. Hailman. Crown EL ^ltZ™lCR°L0GY AND EDU^ION. By Dr. J. Baldwin. Illus- THE SENSES AND THE WILL. Forming Part T nf «Th» tw- j ex. ^, •,, , THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE INTELLECT. Forminc Part II of • Tk. M- A r a history of education in the Kited S™ p » PRACTICAL HINTS FOR TEACHERS. By Georce Hnwu^ c • . * of the Chicago Schools. Crown 8vo 4s 6d Y UE°RGE HowLAND, Superintendent SCHOOL SUPERVISION. By T L Pickard a* to psychology applied to^he^rt of teaching^ £2wn, 6,Mr. Edward Arnold's List. PERIODICALS. THE NATIONAL REVIEW. Edited by L. J. MAXSE. Price Half a-crown monthly. THE PHILOSOPHICAL REVIEW. Edited by J. G. SCHURMAN, Professor of Philosophy in Cornell University, U.S.A. Six Numbers a year. Single Numbers, 3s. 6d. ; Annual Subscription, 14s. post free. The first number was issued in January, 1892. The Review ranges over the whole field of Philosophy ; the articles are signed, and the contributors include the names of the foremost philosophical teachers and writers of America, and many of those of England and the Continent of Europe. THE JOURNAL OF MORPHOLOGY: A Journal of Animal Morphology, devoted principally to Embryological, Anatomical, and Histological Subjects. Edited by C. O. WHITMAN, Professor of Biology in Clark University, U.S.A. Three numbers in a volume of 100 to 150 large 410. pages, with numerous plates. Single numbers, 17s. 6d. ; subscription to the volume of three numbers, 45s. Volumes I. to X. can now be obtained, and the first two numbers of Volume XI. are ready. PUBLICATIONS OF THE INDIA OFFICE AND OF THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA. Mr Edward Arnold, having been appointed Publisher to the Secretary of State for India in Council, has now on sale the above publications at 37 Bedford Street, Strand, and is prepared to supply full information concerning them on application. INDIAN GOVERNMENT MAPS. Anv of the Maps in this magnificent series can now be obtained at the shortestNotice from Mr. Edward Arnold, Publisher to the India Office.31 Jnoes to Hutbora. Adams.—The Palace on the Moor Adderley.—Stephen Remarx Aldrich.—Arctic Alaska American Game Fishes Animal Pictures . PAGE • *5 • 23 . 18 . 18 . 28 Balfour.—Twelve Hundred Miles in a Waggon I? Bell, Mrs.—Kleines Haustheater . . 20 Bell (Rev. Canon).—Sermons . . 20 ,, Diana's Looking Glass . . 20 ,, Poems Old and New . . 20 Benson.—Men of Might. . . .18 Beynon.—With Kelly to Chitral . . 17 Bird Pictures 28 Blatchford. -Tommy Atkins . . 23 Boyle.—Recollections of the Dean of Salisbury !3 Brown.—Works on Poultry Keeping . 24 Bryan.—Mark in Europe . . .25 Bull. —The Cruise of the ' Antarctic' . 9 Burbidge.—Wild Flowers in Art . . 26 Burgess.—Political Science . . .25 Butler.—Select Essays of Sainte Beuve 20 Cawston.—The Early Chartered Com- panies Q Cherbuliez.—The Tutor's Secret Children's Favourite Series Children's Hour Series Clifford.—Love-Letters Clouston.—Early English Furniture . Clowes.—Double Emperor . Collingwood.—Thorstein . ,, The Bondwoman . Collins.—A Treasury of Minor British Poetry Colvile.—Land of the Nile Springs Cook.—Sidney's Defense of Poesy ,, Shelley's Defence of Poetry Cosmopolite. —Sportsman in Ireland . Crane.—George's Mother Cunningham.—Draughts Manual Custance. — Riding Recollections Davidson.—Handbook to Dante Dunmore.—Ormisdal . • 23 16-26 • 15 • 23 . 8 • 27 . 21 14 8 17 21 21 5 14 24 17 21 23 PAGK Ellacombe. — In a Gloucestershire Garden 2^ Ellacombe.—The Plant Lore of Shake- speare j Fawcett. — Hartmann the Anarchist . 27 Fawcett.- Riddle of the Universe . 25 Fawcett.-Secret of the Desert . .'27 Swallowed by an Earthquake 27' Field.—Master Magnus. . . IS Fish Pictures . . , ' 2g Fleming.—Art of Reading and Speaking 21 Ford.—On the Threshold . . . 2q Fowler.—Echoes of Old County Life .' 18 Freshfield.—Exploration of the Cau- casus 10 Gardner.—Friends of Olden Time . 27 Garnett.—Selections in English Prose '. 21 Gaunt.—Dave's Sweetheart . . [ 2o Gordon.—Persia Revisited g Goschen.—Cultivation and Use of the Imagination . . _ ' Gossip.—Chess Pocket Manual \ [ 24 Great Public Schools . ' ^ 26 Gummere. Old English Ballads '. .' 21 Hadjira ... Hans Andersen.—Snow Queen '. • > Tales from Hare.—Life and Letters of Maria Edge- worth ... Harrison. Early Victorian Literature ' Hartshorne. Old English Glasses Hervey.—Eric the Archer Reef of Gold . HiGGiNS.-New Guide to the Pacific Coast ... Hole.—Addresses to Working Men Hole.—Book about Roses Book about the Garden Little Tour in America Little Tour in Ireland Memories . More Memories. Holt.—Fancy Dresses Described Hopkinson.-Toby's Promise 16 16 19 21 8 26 26 18 21 7 24 17 5 19 19 12 1532 Mr. Edward Arnold's List. - -'■ PAGE Hudson.—Life, Art, and Characters of Shakespeare . 21 ,, Harvard Shakespeare . 22 T-Tz-v 11 i-r T \T c TP 011 m /"ill c Tnrlto 1IOI No. — IveilglOllS Ol lll'lla . * Hunt.—What is Poetry? . 22 Hutchinson.—That Fiddler Fellow • 24 India Office Publications. • 30 International Education Series • 29 Johnston.—Joel; a Boy of Galilee • 27 Kay.—Omarah's Yaman . • 19 Kenney-Herbert.—Fifty Breakfasts . 24 ,, ,, Fifty Dinners • 25 ,, ,, Fifty Lunches . 12 ,, ,, Common-sense Knight-Bruce.—Memories of Mashona- land ' . ' 19 Knox.—Hunters Three . , . .27 Knutsford.—Mystery of the Rue Soly . 23 Lang.—Lamb's Adventures of Ulysses . 22 Lecky.—Political Value of History- . 19 Le Fanu.—Seventy Years of Irish Life . 12 Leffingwell.—Art of Wing-Shooting . 18 Legh.—How Dick and Molly went round the World 26 Legh. —How Dick and Molly saw Eng- land IS. 26 Legh.—My Dog Plato . . . .15 Lotze.-' Philosophical Outlines . . 25 Mathews.—Dr. Gilbert's Daughters . 26 Maud.—Wagner's Heroes . . .12 ,, Wagner's Heroines . . .12 Maxwell.—The Sportsman's Library . 4 McNuLTY.—Misther O'Ryan . . .23 Milner.—England in Egypt . . .19 ,, Arnold Toynbee . . .19 Montresor.—Worth While . . .13 Morgan.—Animal Life . . . .25 ,, Animal Sketches . . .27 ,, Habit and Instinct. . . 6 ,, Psychology for Teachers . 25 ,, Springs of Conduct . . 25 Morphology, Journal of . . .25 Morrison.—Life's Prescription . . 22 Munroe.—Fur Seal's Tooth . . .26 .,, Rick Dale . . . 15,26 ,, Snow-shoes and Sledges 15,26 Nash.— Barerock 26 National Review . . . .30 I'AGE Oman.-History of England . . .19 Oxen den.—Interludes . . . .13 Pearson.—The Chances of Death . . 6 Philosophical Review . , .30 Pike.— Through the Sub-Arctic Forest . 3 Pilkington.—An Eton Playing-Field . 20 PoLLOK.—Fifty Years' Reminiscences of India 3 Pope.—Memoirs of Sir John Macdonald . 19 Portal.—British Mission to Uganda . 17 ,, My Mission to Abyssinia . 17 Prescott.—A Mask and a Martyr. . 14 Pulitzer. —Romance of Prince Eugene . 2c Raleigh.—Robert Louis Stevenson . 20 Ransome.—Battles of Frederick the Great 1 i Raymond.—Mushroom Cave . . .27 Rochefort.—The Adventures of My Life Rodd.—Works by Rennell Rodd . . 22 Santley.—Student and Singer . . 20 Schelling.—Elizabethan Lyrics . . 22 ,, Ben Jonson's Timber . 22 Shaw.—A Text Book of Nursing . . r2 Sherard.—Alphonse Daudet. . .20 Shields.—Camping and Camp Outfits . 18 Shields.—American Book of the Dog . 18 Shorland. — Cycling for Health and Pleasure 25 Sichel—The Story of Two Salons . .22 Slatin.—Fire and Sword in the Sudan . 11 Smith.—The Life of a fox . . .4 ,, Through Unknown African Countries g* Spinner.—A Reluctant Evangelist . . 13 Stone.—In and Beyond the Himalayas . 3 Tatham.—Men of Might . . .18 Thayer.—Best Elizabethan Plays . .22. Thomas.—Sweden and the Swedes . . 18 Thornton.—A Sporting Tour . . 5 Tollemache.—Benjamin Jowett . . 20 Twining. — Recollections of Life and White.—Pleasurable Bee-Keeping • 2+ Wild Flowers in Art and Nature 26 Wild Flower Pictures . 28 Williams. — The Bayonet that came Winchester College . . 22, 36 Young.—General Astronomy .COLONEL KENNEY HERBERTS POPULAR WORKS ON COOKERY. COMMON-SENSE COOKERY FOR ENGLISH HOUSEHOLDS. Based upon Modern English and Continental Principles, and Twenty Menus worked out in detail. BY A. KENNEY HERBERT (''Wyvern''), Don of the Order of the Cordon-Rouge, Author of " Culinary Jottings," &c. Large Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7s. 6d. WhiC.h, iS tUre *? haVe a large circuIation, since the author, the well- FnXh Jin ha^,beenffofr S01T time generally accepted as perhaps the chief English authonty on the art of cookery."—The Times. " An elaborate treatise on the culinary art. The rules are laid down simply and clearly, and the recipes are given with such precision as to quantities that mistakes can scarcely occur if proper attention is paid to the instructions."—Morning Post. " Alike to learners and adepts the book will be found useful and su^eestive "— Manchester Courier. && FIFTY BREAKFASTS. BY A. KENNEY HERBERT ( Wyvern "•), Cordon-Rouge, A uthor of " Culinary Jottings," &c. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 2s. 6d. " All who know the culinary works of ' Wyvern' are aware that thev combine a remarkable conviction, and (on the whole) excellent taste with an exceptional practicalness and precision in detail. His ' Fifty Breakfasts ' will well sustain this reputation."—Saturday Review. "An admirable collection of menus for the opening meal of the day."—Speaker. " Autolvcus," in a review of a column, says :—" Distinctly it is a book to be read and studied."—Pall Mall Gazette. London: EDWARD ARNOLD, 37, Bedford Street, Strand, W.C. |wbltsljer to % $nbht Office.