55 INTRODUCTORY ADDRESS. Hunter was, above all things, an experimental philosopher. He carried his zeal for experiment on influenced by culture. Considerable variations are produced under such circumstances, of which the most frequent are changes in colour.’ In a note he adds: ‘ From the variations produced by culture it would appear that the animal is so susceptible of im- pressions as to vary Nature’s action, and this is even carried into propagation’ (vol. iv,p. 277). Still more striking is a note in which, speaking of extreme variations as monstrous, he reflects : ‘ Perhaps the word monstrous is too strong or not exactly just; ’ and then he adds this remarkable passage: ‘ It certainly may be laid down as one of the principles or laws of Nature to deviate under certain circumstances. It may also be observed that it is neither necessary nor does it follow that all deviations from the original must be a falling off; it appears just the contrary ; therefore we may suppose that Nature is improving her works, or at least has established the principle of improvement in the body as well as in the mind ’ (vol. iv, pp. 278, 279, note). Given the additional factor of the advantages bestowed upon individuals by such improvements in the ‘ struggle for existence,’ and Hunter would have discerned the Darwinian doctrines of ‘modification in descent’ and ‘the survival of the Attest.’ ” Mr. Marshall then proceeds to show that Hunter discusses as Darwin did the question of reversion to the original type, that he alludes to the necessary adaptation of some insects to uniform and others to variable climates, and reflects on the differences of habit which must thus be brought al>out; that he describes those constant and associated peculiarities and changes in an animal to which Darwin applied the term *' Correlation,” and adds that “ his paper on the peculiarities of a hen-pheasant which had acquired the plumage of a male, is full of reflections and suggestions conceived in the true Darwinian spirit.” It is amusing to remember that it was just this paper which Foot thought too absurd to waste a word on—so dan- gerous is it to criticise what you cannot understand. Again. Mr. Marshall remarks that, like Darwin, Hunter often drew conclusions from the most trivial facts, that he inferred the existence of bile in the maggot from the bitterness of a bad nut, that he examined the excrement of fleas and caterpillars, and speculated therefrom on their digestive powers and habits of feeding, in passages which would have rejoiced the heart of Aristophanes if Socrates had written them, and of which he would have made fun for countless generations to split their sides over. (See Arist., * Nubes,’ 142—168.)