69 APPENDIX. tics, progressions, and terminations of inflammation. He then felt himself authorised to apply the same principles, and the line of conduct suggested by them, to inflammation as it occurs in adjunction to other injuries and diseases and operations. He entered largely into the subject of irritability, both natural and morbid, pointing out the distinction between this property and power. He noted the different sympathies and orders of parts, and their respective shares in the functions of health and in the transmission of disease “ His observation of the unputrescent state of eggs in the advanced stages of successful incubation first led him to discriminate betwixt life, as a power, and organisation, as the mere mechanism by which it operates.”—(Chevalier, ‘ Hunterian Oration,’ 1821.) Hunter’s work, then, was interpreted by one of his scholars as an attempt to exhibit life, or “ the living principle ” as he called it, in action. Life, as he justly and profoundly says, is not only not the same thing as organisation, but it is independ- ent of and prior to organisation, which indeed must be sus- tained and repaired by it. Its existence is ordained and allotted by creative power. But Hunter was too cautious a philosopher to attempt the impossible task of constructing a theory of life. “Life,” he says,* “is a property we do not understand; we can only see the necessary steps leading to it.” His aim was not to theorise about the essential nature of life, « • but to exhibit life in action, and to theorise about its processes so far as he had facts on which to build theory ; for Hunter, though the most speculative of men, always tried to base his speculations on observation. It is true that sometimes his vivid intuition would anticipate the conclusions which ought to have been matter of induction, and that Babington f had some reason for saying that sometimes at least “ he sought to arrive at the general laws of uature at once by conjecture, rather than by a close and detailed study of her inferior operations, to ascend step by step, through a slow and gradual induction, to those laws which govern her general procedure.” The criticism is just if applied to portions, and those I think exceptional por* * ‘ The Blood,’ p. 117. t Preface to ‘ Hunter on Venereal Disease,’ Works, ii, 129.