APPENDIX. 68 neither of them as the directors of the whole; either of them in excess may overpower and extinguish it, but when it is once lost not any of thorn can reproduce it, nor can it ever be restored, but by a special interposition of the same creative power which first ordained and allotted its existence “ Having thus noted the peculiar agent or active principle by which the body is constructed and actuated, Mr. Hunter’s attention was next directed to the material which it compounds and employs, in order to effectuate its purposes; which pur- poses, he observes, are reducible to two heads, the support of the matter of the body and the support of its different actions. He therefore carefully examined the component parts of the blood, its material and vital properties .... and the reci- procal influences of the circulation, digestion, and respiration upon each other. . . . He watched its movements from the punctum mliens in the incubated egg to its various meanderings and influxes through the complicated intertextures and com- munications of arteries and veins, sinuses and cells in the sanguiferous system of perfect animals. . . . Then he in- vestigated the construction, reciprocal adaptations, and distri- butions of the different parts of the vascular, absorbent, and nervous systems and their functional connections with each other. And, having laid this broad and substantial foundation for the consideration of his subject, he proceeded to an experi- mental examination of inflammation, its various kinds, degrees, and circumstances as the disordered action of these living ves- sels, the carriers and distributors of this living blood .... the changes it produces in parts of every structure and every function .... and the nature of the effusions, secretions, and deposits arising from it; the concomitant and subsequent action of the absorbent vessels, and the states of the nervous system under these varied circumstances; and from the whole he deduced those principles respecting its treatment which this extended survey of facts and the known properties of remedies would indicate and justify. These principles he put to the best possible test by an application of them to the management of gun-shot wounds, in which every order of parts in the body comes occasionally under exposure and review in all the varie-