INTRODUCTORY ADDRESS. 22 attended, though “ his classes,” says Paget, “ in- cluded nearly everyone who in the generation after him had any great reputation in surgery in this country.” But he seems to have been fond of bed- side teaching, and the excellence of the practical remarks scattered broadcast over his works, together with the pithy, lucid style in which these practical aphorisms are conveyed, show that he must have been a clinical teacher of the highest order.* On the other side, two utterances of his colleagues, which Hunter quotes, leave us in no doubt of their qualifications as teachers. One “ did not choose to hazard his reputation by giving lectures,” which, at * “ Hunter’s writings,” says Mr. Holden (‘ Hunterian Oration,’ p. 25), “teem with examples which show what an impressive teacher he was, how supreme was his skill in turning all his knowledge to account, and with what happy enthusiasm he started others on the road to gain knowledge for themselves. To take a single instance I would especially point to his description of the organs of mastica- tion and digestion. . . . When I first read it, it filled me with astonishment. ‘ Would to Heaven,’ I said, ‘ that we had the whole of anatomy described in this powerful way; we should hear fewer complaints of its “ dryness and dulness ” ! ’ The language is so lucid, so terse, and withal so pictorial. There is an interest too and charm in every detail, and with each fact is given some illustra- tion, with all the text its full and proper comment.” Mr. Holden also quotes Cline as saying, “ When only twenty-four years of age I had the happiness of hearing the first course of lectures which John Hunter delivered. I had been at that time for some years in the profession, and was tolerably well acquainted with the opinions held by the surgeons most distinguished for their talents then residing in the metropolis; but having heard Mr. Hunter’s lectures on the subject of disease, I found them so far superior to anything I had conceived or heard before that there seemed no comparison between the great mind of the man who delivered them and all the individuals, whether ancient or modern, who had gone before him.”