78 APPENDIX. tional actions which, as he shows so clearly, can suspend or even reverse the natural actions of the body. Though Hunter, there- fore, never speaks (in fact, I believe deliberately avoids speaking) of any supernatural agency, his whole teaching appears utterly inconsistent with materialism. That doctrine, as Dr. Lionel Beale has recently remarked,* “may be traced to the primary belief in the assumption that the living and non-living are one, backed by ingenious speculations, invented for the purpose of convincing people that the facts of life, as well as those of nature, living and non-living, have been explained by physics and chemistry.” No theory could be more formally in opposi- tion than this to the teaching of the man who wrote: “ No chemist on earth can make out of the earth a piece of sugar, but a vegetable can do it,” So far, then, it seems to me that Green and Coleridge are right in claiming John Hunter’s teaching as supporting their view that life is a supernatural endowment. Another point in which they seem to me correct is in the praise which they bestow on Hunter’s philosophy as one of ideas and not merely of forces, that is to say, as teaching that behind the forces by which the visible actions are produced is a purpose directing those forces to a foreseen end.f We have got lately to # 1 Lancet,’ Oct. 7th, 1893, p. 865. f The whole of Green’s Oration, 1840, entitled ‘Vital Dynamics,’ is occupied with this contention. The following passage may be quoted: “ In the world do we not see everywhere evidences of a unity, which the component parts are so far from explaining that they necessarily presuppose the unity as the cause and condition of their existing at all ? Every whole of parts, be it the minutest crystal, a plant, an animal, the globe which sustains us, the solar system of which it is a part, or the universe itself, in the infinitude of which that system is less than a mote, every whole of parts demands for its intelligibility a cause or principle of each union, a power and unity antecedent in the order of efficiency, and remaining present as the sustaining and conservative energy; it implies a legislative act, predetermining the result, compelling implicit obedi- ence, and excluding all contingency. . . . Reflect on the exqui- site harmony of all surrounding things and the coherence of all to the Koa/xog, to the order and beauty of the world! How else could a whole, a system of manifold agencies, result in sequence invari-