APPENDIX. 67 subsistence or the agencies of a living body; that a more accurate cognisance ought to be taken of that principle or power which, as he expresses it, * preserves the body from dissolution with or without action, and is the cause of all its actions.’ .... His eye was continually directed, undazzled by hypotheses of any description, to vital operations. This, he says, was ‘ always his favourite busiuess and amusement ’ (‘ Obs. on the An. (Economy ’) “ I think it is to be regretted, when the idea Mr. Hunter has given of the principle of life is objected to as metaphysical. If we take for metaphysics that art of subtilising abstracted and gratuitous distinctions in which the schoolmen indulged, . . . . then nothing can less deserve to be called meta- physical than Mr. Hunter’s statements. Indeed he does not seem to have possessed an excursive imagination.* .... “ The organisation was first completed, and life afterwards bestowed as a power or principle, by which the original indi- viduals should be, for a time, preserved in their destined states of action; and which should ensure a succession of races of beings of like form and nature to themselves, and to be pro- duced by them, each engendering its own kind only It depends on no particular quantity of matter, but is as entire and uncoufused in the minutest animalcule as in an elephant or whale. It is in all cases intended to constitute and to main- tain individuality of kind in the mass which it occupies, and when it is rendered incompetent to this end it is always evanescent, and soon leaves the matter over which it has exercised its dominion open to the decompounding operation of surrounding agents, from which, pending that dominion, it afforded a competent protection The attractions of cohesion, gravitation, and chemical affinity, electricity and the mechanical powers, may be distinctly recognised as taking part in its operations, but all as coadjutors only, * “ His mind was naturally formed for investigation, and that turn displayed itself on the most trivial occasions and always with mathe- matical exactness. What is curious, it fatigued him to be long in a mixed company which did not admit of connected conversation, more particularly during the last ten years of his life.”—(Sir E. Home, ‘ Life of Hunter,’ p. lxv.)