APPENDIX. 74 points out liow plainly John Hunter’s labours appear to have tended to this goal, viz. to show us that the object of the history of nature is to serve “ as a preface and portion of the history of man, and the knowledge of nature as a branch of self knowledge, and the outwardly realised history of our own consciousness and conscious being ” so that “ every part of the creation derives its intelligibility from the final purpose revealed in earth’s noblest creature—as aspiring heavenward—Man.” In another place * Green says: “ Take any outward fact or phenomenon of seusible experience—say au organised being—we note its form and changes; but we ask inevitably what has produced this complex being, and what preserves it, ever the same amid its changing phases ? The only answer is, somewhat beyond the power of our cognisance by the senses, and we iufer a somewhat deeper and beyond the surface—call it life, spirit, law.” And he goes on to argue that the support for this con- clusion is derived from our own self consciousness, from the fact that “ within ourselves we become cognisant of a causative, an originative, of a somewhat deeper and beyond that which is the object of our thoughts;—it is the subject, the Will.” Thus the Hunterian doctrine of life as the cause of organi- sation leads up in Green’s hands to the conception of man as a self-conscious and voluntary agent, and “ the same principles, derived from the facts of his consciousness, enable him in the same manner to contemplate the causes and laws which are operative in outward nature, and lead him to the prime cause of the moral order aud unity of the universe ” (p. 55). It was his insight into this meaniug lying hid in Hunter’s work which powerfully attracted Coleridge towards a character so utterly unlike his own as Hunter’s was.f Speaking of Blumenbach’s term “ Bildungstrieb ” or “ nisus formativus,” he says that it is the equivalent of the “ life ” or “ living principle ” of John Hunter, “ the profoundest, I had almost said the only, physiological philosopher of the latter half of the preceding century. For in what other sense can we understand either his assertion that this principle or agent is independent of organi- sation which yet it animates, sustains, and repairs, or the purport * “ Mental Dynamics,” ‘ Hunterian Oration,’ 1847, p. 53. f See ‘ The Friend,’ sect, ii, Essay ix.