38 INTRODUCTORY ADDRESS. imperfection of tlie instruments with which he worked ! * how very near the more complete in- vestigations of this age of microscopy ! how lumin- ous as an introduction to universal pathology !+ If, then, we allow that Hunter’s work as a philoso- pher, and as the founder of the museum, surpassed in value his work as a surgeon, we must also admit that as a practical surgeon he was of the first rank, and that as “ Tlie Founder of Scientific Surgery” (the title justly inscribed on his monument in the Abbey,| he rendered a greater service to our art gained for scientific surgery let him compare his writings on inflam- mation with those of Bromfield.”—‘ Hunterian Oration,’ note L. * Hunter did all he could with the microscopical instruments with which he was acquainted, but that did not lead him far into the science of histology, and, as Mr. Marshall (‘ Hunterian Oration,’ p. 15) has well said, he “ had so large a field of observation in the obvious conformation of the organs of animals open to his reach by the aid of scalpel, scissors, and forceps, assisted occasionally by magnifying powers, that he could well afford to disregard the less trustworthy information afforded by the imperfect microscopes of his day.” How imperfect they were will best appear from the perusal of Hunter’s note to that section (chap, i, § 4) of the ‘ Treatise on the Blood,’ &c., which treats of the red globules.—(Vol. iii, p. 60.) f “ As regards the complex phenomena of inflammation, which Hunter had so long and so carefully thought out, it may be said in a word that the modern microscope, whilst adding so much to his knowledge, would elucidate and confirm almost all his sagacious conceptions. Those important agents in the inflammatory process, the white corpuscles, although perhaps not altogether unknown, were not sufficiently distinguished in Hunter’s time. The existence of these being granted, their amcebiform properties, their emigration through the softened walls of the small vessels, their further action on the tissues, their presence in lymph, and their identity with pus- corpuscles would fill up the details in the Hunterian sketch.”— (Marshall, ‘ Hunterian Oration,’ p. 35.) X Hunter’s claim to this title was asserted in the first Hunterian Oration ever delivered, that by Sir E. Home in 1814. “ From the