23 INTRODUCTORY ADDRESS. least, as Hunter sarcastically says, “ was modest of him.” Another “did not see where the art could be improved,” and therefore, doubtless did not see that the Hunterian operation for popliteal aneurism was any improvement on amputation. It is no wonder that, under such teachers, the number of students was small, and that of these the great majority wished to be Hunter’s pupils. Still, in the precise matter leading to the fatal quarrel Hunter seems to most men to have been in the wrong ; and in any case it would have been better if one so far superior to his fellows could have brought himself to treat them with more consideration.* But, * To my mind one of the most interesting works on Hunter is Abernethy’s ‘ Physiological Lectures,’not a regular biography nor an exact account of Hunter’s philosophy, but a blending of the two, a work written by a man himself of no ordinary power of mind, and one who knew Hunter well, respected him as a teacher, and loved him as a friend. Howship says in his * Hunterian Oration,’ 1833, “If you ask who was his most eloquent, most ingenious, and most faithful commentator ? it will not be necessary that I should reply —the late Mr. Abernethy.’’ “ I was acquainted with Mr. Hunter,” says Abernethy (p. 199), “ at a period of his life when he must have greatly interested anyone who duly appreciated the results of his talents and labours, or who had any sympathy for the highly susceptible mind of genius, rendered still more so by excess of exertion, and the perturbed feelings incident to bodily disease. He seemed to lx? conscious of his own desert, of the insufficiency and uncertainty of his acquirements, and of his own inability readily to communicate what he knew and thought. He felt irritated by the opposition he met with in establishing his opinions, and still more by finding, when he had surmounted this difficulty, that those opinions were, by the malice of mankind, ascribed to others. All which, I think, may be fairly inferred from a single sentence he one day addressed to me. “ I know, I know,” said he, “ I am but a pigmy in knowledge, yet I feel as a giant when compared with these men.”