INTRODUCTORY ADDRESS. 26 As a surgeon Hunter did relatively less than in either of the other two directions. In his surgical writings he seems as if oppressed by his method.* He had set before himself the gigantic task of tracing surgery to its first principles in the qualities of matter, in the operations of that matter when organised, in the laws and actions of the human body, and the effects of remedies in modifying those actions. No other surgeon had preceded him in that arduous path, and the space of thirty years,f * Hunter’s works are naturally divided into Surgical or Practical and Physiological or Scientific. Of the former one can hardly speak adequately without going much into detail, nor is it profitable to read them unless the reader can spare the time to meditate on each separate proposition, to trace the reasoning which led the author to his conclusions, to see where and why he was misled, and to appre- ciate the profound sagacity, the unwearied labour, and the bold originality which led to the composition of works so far in advance of the surgeons of his time. But if a man has sufficient knowledge of surgery to judge of their value, and sufficient time really to study them, that time could not be devoted to a more remunerative study. Hunter’s practical works are the ‘ Treatise on the Blood,’ &c., the ‘ Lectures on the Principles of Surgery,’ the ‘ Treatise on the Venereal Disease,’ and the ‘ Treatise on the Teeth,’ to which may be added a few detached papers, ‘ On the Inflammation of the Internal Coats of Veins,’ ‘On Introsusception,’ ‘On Loose Cartilages,’ ‘ On Horny Excrescences,’ and ‘ On Artificial Feeding in a Case of Paralysis of the Muscles of Deglutition.’ Sir E. Home’s two papers on the Hunterian operation for aneurism and the account of Hunter’s evidence on the trial of Captain Donellan, though not written by Hunter himself, form also a part of his surgical works. f We can hardly date the commencement of Hunter’s career as a surgical teacher earlier than his return from abroad in 1763, thirty years before his death, though he commenced his studies fourteen years earlier, and was house surgeon at St. George’s in 1756. As to the museum, Owen says that “ Hunter had passed his thirtieth year before he had collected a single preparation for himself. All that