APPENDIX. 79 tolerate at any rate, if not to embrace, a theory which, starting from the general acceptance of the doctrines of evolution, wishes to persuade us that everything has come to be as it is by a sort of blind necessity. The hypothesis is a very old one. It excited the ridicule of Aristophanes,* and inspired the beautiful poem of Lucretius. But it has received new life from the ultra-Dar- winians who do not seem to see that if evolution has really pro- duced such brilliant results from such obscure beginnings, it furnishes still stronger evidence of a purpose lying behind a process which involves such continuous and wonderful progress from the imperfect towards perfection. If Paley was right in saying that the traces of design which were revealed to the dis- coverer of the watch would be much strengthened if the watch contained mechanism which enabled it to produce another watch like itself, surely be would be entitled to argue that the presump- tion would be raised near to certainty if the original machine contained the germ and potency of machines rising in endless complexity and constantly adapting themselves to ever new uses. Now Hunter’s works are full of the strongest possible state- ments of teleological views, so full as to dispense entirely with any necessity for quotation. He goes even so far as to speak of the body as “ conscious of the use ” of various processes, and defends his language, “ because I have not a word for expressing the cause of those actions which take place in the body as if it was conscious that such and such things were going to take place. There are actions of the body which come the nearest to con- sciousness of the mind of auything I can conceive, and, there- fore, I make use of this word.”f And as to evolution, I have shown in the text (p. 54) how near he came to the conception at any rate of its leading idea, and how plainly he taught that “ we may suppose that nature is improving her works, or at least has established the principle of improvement in the bodv able, in connection necessary, in order permanent, in co-operation harmonious, in government immutable, unless by a will manifested in acts causative and intelligential, predetermining the final pur- pose, and providing the means to the ultimate aim, already con- templated in the antecedent unity of the legislative act P” (p. 18.) * AIvoc fiaariXivu rov Af <£tXqXaiewc, Nub., 1471. t Vol. i, p. 236.