INTRODUCTORY ADDRESS. 54 embryological researches again, led him to the fruitful conception that “ organised creation,” as the latest Hunterian orator phrases it, “had been formed on a single plan or type, which may be traced through the whole animal world; and that the lower animals represent permanently the suc- cessive stager, through which higher animals pass, until they have attained their full and perfect deve- lopment ; ”* an idea which contains within it the germ of the Darwinian philosophy.! sidered in relation to fossil remains, elucidates by implication the changes of temperature to which different parts of the earth have been subject at different periods. With more distinctness and detail he points out the evidence which fossils afford of the altera- tions of the conditions of the earth’s surface, as dry land or sub- merged ; and by frequent allusions to the many thousand years which must have elapsed since the earth was the theatre of these changes, he seems to have fully appreciated the necessity of an ample allowance of past time to account philosophically for the changes in question. Mr. Clift, who transcribed the MS. of this paper, informs me that it was originally, not * many thousand years,’ but ‘ many thousand centuries,’ and he preserves the copy of the letter of the friend of Hunter (Major Rennell), who advised the change of expression in conformity with the popular notion of the world’s age. This interesting paper, if candidly perused, must, I think, be considered as the dawning of that glorious daylight with which fossil anatomy, the handmaid of geology, has since overspread the summits and penetrated the depths, and thus illumined the history of the ‘ earth and the waters under the earth ! ’ ” * Bryant, ‘ Hunterian Oration,’ p. 31. f Mr. Marshall, in his * Hunterian Oration ’ (pp. 30, 31), brings out in a very interesting way the anticipations of the doc- trines of Darwin which are to be found in Hunter’s speculations. “Contrasting,” says Mr. Marshall, "the phenomena of variation as they occur in wild and in domesticated animals, to which he obviously paid great attention, Hunter says : ‘ Animals living in a free and natural state are subject to few deviations from their specific character, but Nature is less uniform in its operations when