APPENDIX. 71 conclusions or assumed them as self evident—but these latter were the exceptions, not the rule. It was just these very “ infe- rior operations ” of nature which he spent long years in inves- tigating. I may refer to Sir J. Paget’s * account of the way in which he studied the development of the young bird within the egg, night and day, hour by hour, for parts of fifteen years. “ Surely,” says Paget, “ one might suppose this was the great work of his life. Yet it seems to have beeu rather a casual by- the-way pursuit.” “ In his experiments on bees, he says, he killed several hives and examined every single bee, to assure himself that no male was left after the fertilisation of the queen bee had been effected. Now the number of labourers in a hive amounts to at least 4,000, so that he must have examined twelve or fifteen thousand bees one bv one, to deter- mine this point alone.” f So in his experiments on such a minute matter as the motions of the leaves of sensitive plants we read: J “To have the greatest part of the day before me I began my experiments at eight in the morning, while the leaves were in full expansion, and I continued them till four in the afternoon, as longer than this would not have been just, for they begin to collapse of themselves between five and six o’clock.” And be brought the same thoroughness into all his work. Read the ‘Treatise on the Blood’ and see how carefully he builds up his theory of the life of the blood from the minutest observation of its structure and of its behaviour in life aud death, in health fermentation, and so far there can be no doubt he is right. “ No chemist on earth,” as he truly says, “can make out of the earth a piece of sugar, but a vegetable can do it.” But from this perfectly correct premise he goes on to exclude fermentation (which he defines very inaccurately) and chemical action from the operations of life. This, no doubt, is a gross inaccuracy, in excuse for which, however, we must recollect, as Cmsar Hawkins says (‘ Hunterian Oration,’ p. 11), that Hunter was here combating the extravagances of the chemical and mechanical physiology of the day. But this aud most of the errors we meet with in his theories are in specula- tive matters. Had he followed them into practice he would have found that they led him wrong, and would have abandoned them. * Paget, ‘ Hunterian Oration,’ p. 11. t Power, ‘ Hunterian Oration,’ p. 28. x ‘ Croouian Lecture on Muscular Motion,’ iv, 2l)5.