18 INTRODUCTORY ADDRESS. generous in their assistance, even when in want himself, constant in his love and not implacable in his hate.* His obvious superiority to the men of his time seems to have been early felt; and although we are told of his difficulties in making his way in practice, the facts of his life show little trace of them. It was in 1763 that he returned from the war “with nothing certain to depend on but his half-pay,” says his biographer. Yet in 1766 we find him replied that he did not then require assistance, but would not fail to apply for it should he be afterwards in want. “ Nay,” said Hunter, “ what I offer I will do now, but what I may be able to do a week hence it is impossible for me to say.” On his recovery Lynn went to thank him for his kindness and found that Hunter had forgotten the whole matter. Many such acts of generosity have no doubt passed unrecorded. * Abernethy speaks thus of Hunter’s manners and private cha- racter : “ Harshness, I am convinced, could never have proceeded from a mind attuned like that of John Hunter. I do not wish to deny or conceal that occasionally the candour and susceptibility of his character might incite him to express his vexation and indigna- tion with a degree of energy and openness that would give offence. Yet for this occasional want of temper many and perfectly exculpa- tory causes may be stated. Mr. Hunter’s life was one of continual exertion, perplexity, and irritation. He was constantly engaged in the search and consideration of new facts. ‘ My mind,’ said he to me, ‘ is like a beehive,’ and the simile struck me on account of its correctness, for in the midst of busy and apparent confusion there was great order, regularity of structure, and abundant food, col- lected with incessant industry from the choicest stores of Nature. It will be generally admitted that the want of money would be an adequate cause of perplexity, yet to Mr. Hunter the very means by which the necessary supplies were to be produced proved sources of irritation. The search for money led him from the more congenial pursuit of knowledge; it broke into his arrangements, distracted his attention, and we find him complaining of this like one who had felt it sorely.”—‘ Hunterian Oration,’ 1819.