APPENDIX. 73 this laborious study of nature that surgery in Hunter’s hands touches on so many branches of natural philosophy, or perhaps I should not say “ surgery ” but “ physic ”—the great healing art, of which surgery is but one branch. Travers says : * “ When I claim him as the father of modern surgery I ain far from meaning to imply that our brethren the physicians have no part or lot in him. . . . ‘ Pardon me,’ says one of the most enlightened of their body, Dr. Latham, * if I hold that Hunter was only nominally a surgeon—he belonged to no isolated district of our profession.’ ” This is, no doubt, true, for though, happily for surgery. Hunter’s practice was confined to that one branch, his principles were laid deep in nature, and were there- fore peculiarly adapted to serve as the foundation of that noble art which, by a happy and exceptional use of language, we English, alone of civilised nations, call “ physic.” I do not know that we can state the case better than Green has done. “ Invaluable as his researches were, and most happy as their effects have been in the especial improvement and increased light, power, and courage of surgery, may we not rather say that he achieved the more important service of bringing the whole art of healing into an immediate connection with the sciences which have nature for their object, by exhibit- ing its requisite foundation on an enlightened physiology.” f One of the most philosophic minds which have ever applied themselves to the study of our profession was that of Joseph Henry Green, the friend and disciple of Coleridge. He has pointed outj that the Hunterian Museum may be looked on in an even higher light than as a guide to the study of the works of nature: that the splendid demonstration which it furnishes of the stages of evolution, or, as Green puts it, “ that every organic whole, from the polype up to man, indicates a higher and more effective principle of unity,” and the striking witness which it bears '* that every organic whole is the result of an antecedent principle or power ” lead to the almost irresistible conclusion that “nature must not only feel, she must know, her own being; that is, mind must be superadded to life.” And he # * Hunterian Oration,’ 1838. t Green, * Hunterian Oration,’ 1840, p. 44. t ‘ Hunterian Oration,’ 1840, pp. 37 ct seq.