INTRODUCTORY ADDRESS. 31 subject was evidently a favourite one for bis researches and speculations, and the work was published and republished in his lifetime. Yet the reader cannot but be conscious of imperfections in it. The first thing that strikes us is the strange terian Oration,’ 1834), “ Mr. Hunter abandoned the course of pro- ceeding which he had pursued so safely in other departments of pathology. Instead of taking up the subject de novo and examining the facts for himself, he adopted the current notions respecting the progressive and destructive nature of syphilis, and the specific powers of mercury in arresting the disorder. He made the influence of that remedy a test of the nature of the disease, main- taining that affections which admit of cure without the use of mer- cury are not venereal. Hence his treatise, instead of representing faithfully the course of nature, is chiefly occupied in the endeavour to make facts accord with these pre-conceived notions. Ab the latter are unfounded the structure built upon them falls to the ground. The high authority of Mr. Hunter confirmed and extended these pernicious mistakes, giving origin to the imaginary distinction between venereal diseases and those resembling them, to the fanciful creation of pseudo-syphilis and syphiloid diseases, by which so much confusion, uncertainty, and embarrassment, have been introduced into an important department of surgical pathology and practice.” Brodie (‘ Hunterian Oration,’ 1837) says, “ His treatise on the * Lues Venerea’ is a most elaborate work, and contains a great number of interesting pathological speculations and other important matter; but it must, nevertheless, be acknowledged that it affords but an imperfect representation of the long train of various symptoms which fall imder the observation of an experienced practitioner.” And Mr. Hutchinson (“ Hunterian Oration,” ‘ Lancet,’ 1891, vol. i) says, “ Were I to venture an attempt to estimate the value of Hunter’s work on the venereal diseases I should be compelled in all honesty to declare that it was in many respects behind the knowledge of the day. It abounds in sagacious thought, but yet, on not a few matters of detail, those who had written before him entertained opinions which to me seem more accurate. It betrays too great confidence in the author’s own opinions, and a want of respect for those of others, which would come only from want of knowledge and of facts.”