12 INTRODUCTORY ADDRESS. Jesse Foot’s snarling, envious diatribe.* Putting all this together, then, what does Hunter’s life come to ? No doubt the first thing that strikes the student is its immense laboriousness, at least in his later years, for in his youth he seems to have been fond of society and pleasure. But in his maturity and age his day began with sunrise in the summer and long before dawn at other seasons after about four hours in bed, and from four or five in the morning he used to dissect till eight o’clock breakfast.f * “ Quo fit ut omni8 votiva pateat veluti descripta tabella vita senis.”—Hor. f Mr. Thomas, in his * Hunterian Oration,’ 1827, says, “ Upon my first arrival in London, on presenting a letter of introduction, he desired to see me at five the next morning! I found him in his museum busily engaged in the dissection of insects.” Mr. Thomas then relates how he became Hunter’s dresser at St. George’s, how Hunter procured him employment as an assistant surgeon in Lord Macartney’s embassy to China, and how, on the homeward voyage, “ we fell in with a small merchant vessel on its course to New South Wales. When the master came on board he was instantly assailed on all sides with anxious inquiries for news from England. Almost among the first public occurrences he mentioned was the sudden death of John Hunter. That I should, in common with most others who heard the account, deplore the loss which science had sustained was most natural, and that I should individually lament the death of one for whom I entertained such sentiments of grati- tude and attachment; but still I was much consoled, and felt a proud satisfaction in hearing a plain unlettered seaman, in the midst of the Pacific Ocean, pay such a tribute of unpremeditated respect to the memory of departed genius and worth.” In reference to this anecdote Sir B. Brodie remarks, “ When Mr. Thomas visited him at five on an October morning, and found him already busily engaged in dissecting an insect under the light of a lamp, he was in that state in which any sudden and violent emotion of the mind might have endangered his life.”—‘Hunterian Oration,’ 1837.