76 appendix. “ power ” of that part * * * § All this is plain enough ; but it is not so easy to make out what is meant by the “materia vitas diffusa ,”f since at one part he seems to believe that this is the same matter diffused through the body which is accumulated and rende/red visible in the brain and nervous system. And yet this cannot be his real meaning, for he goes on to show that the principle of life is independent of the nervous tissue, since there are living creatures which have no nerves, and the experiments on eggs prove that life acts in the absence of all organisation. In other passages he speaks of “ the inflamed materia vitae” and again of the “ different systems of materia vitae in different parts. Not less difficult is it to fix the exact sense in which he uses the terms “ mind ” and “ will.” “ The brain,” he says, “ is a mass of this matter (sc. materia vitae) not diffused through anything for the purpose of that thing, but constituting an organ in itself, the actions of which are for other purposes, viz. receiving by means of the nerves the vast variety of actions in the diffused materia vitae which arise from impression and habit, combining these, and distinguishing from what part they come. The whole of these actions form the mind, and, according to the result, react so as to impress more or less of the materia vitae of the body in return, producing in such parts consequent actions. The brain then depends upon the body for its impression, which is sensation, and the consequent action is that of the mind; and the body depends upon the consequence of this intelligence, or effect of this mind, called the will, to impress it to action; but such § are not spent upon itself, but are for other purposes, and are called voluntary.” In another place || he treats the same question thus : “ Reason, * Yol. iii, p. 8. f This was an expression “ with which his friends furnished him,” says Abernethy. He would have done better had he used his own language. | Yol. iii, pp. 334, 335. § The editor here supplies the words “ sensation and action.” Something has evidently dropped out of the text; but I think it must have been the word “actions” only, for sensation could not be called “ voluntary.” || Yol. i, p. 259.