72 APPENDIX. and disease.* Take the surgical lectures and see how he intro- duces the subject of surgery with a profound study of the properties not only of animated but of unanimated nature. And it is thus that he made not surgery only but the whole medical art scientific, and rescued it out of the hands of the ordinary practical men, who would have left it for ever a mere empirical and traditionary calling. It was just on account of * Much has been said and written about Hunter’s theory of the blood having life; some appear even to think that the opinion is an original one of Hunter. But whether Hunter knew or did not know what had been written before (and he certainly does not refer to it), everyone now knows that Harvey asserts the doctrine of the living principle of the blood as plainly as Hunter himself, and professes to be only following Aristotle (see the passages quoted in Palmer’s edition, vol. iii, foot- note, p. 105), while the doctrine in its popular form that the blood is the life of the body is as old as the book of Genesis. Harvey, however, did not pursue bis researches further. “ Hunter, on the contrary,” says Sir R. Owen (Owen’s preface, p. xii), “ carries a series of calm and philosophical investigations on the vital properties of the blood to an extent which has never been surpassed ; he examines it under every condition, both in the vessels and out of the vessels, during circulation and at rest, in health and in disease. He aims to esta- blish the period in its formation at which it manifests the vital properties; and he fully details the changes which it undergoes, and the phenomena which supervene in the rest of the organism when these properties are lost. Lastly he tells us how the blood, by means of its vital properties, assists in the restoration of parts when injured or diseased.” But though not new the doctrine was of the greatest importance to Hunter’s theory of life. “ That the blood has life,” he says, (‘ Treatise on the Blood,’ &c., part 1, chapter 1, § 6), is an opinion I have started for above thirty years, and have taught it for nearly twenty of that time in my lectures.” And it seems certain that the general opinion in that day attributed life only to what they called “ the solids ” (regardless of the fact that in living beings the most solid- looking parts are in great measure composed of fluid), while Hunter saw clearly that life was altogether independent of, and anterior to, organisation, and that the living principle would enable the yolk and white of incubated eggs, which could not even be regarded as definitely organised, to resist putrefaction (see the section above quoted. Also Abernethy’s ‘ Phys. Lect.,’ p. 239).