58 INTRODUCTORY ADDRESS. preparations are in the Department of Comparative Anatomy, blit comparative anatomy was used by him only to illustrate, or rather to form part of the founda- tion of, biology, the science of life in its widest sense and in its most extended relations, the philosophy of the whole of animated nature.* What preparation he made for this stupendous task—a task which in its perfect accomplishment is literally superhuman— may be judged of by the fact that his collection em- braced some 14,000 specimens, accompanied by ten folio volumes of MS. notes, by catalogues of certain portions of the physiological department, and a description of the pathological specimens of diseases of the bones, besides an immense number of draw- * Sir W. Savory says of the physiological part of the museum :— “ Above all, it introduces us, in the happiest way, to the study of comparative physiology. It demonstrates the great law of progress from the general to the special; the law of evolution from the simple to the complex ; the principle of elaboration and advancement of function by division of labour. Or, again, as Sir W. Flower puts it, it throws ‘ light upon one of the great biological problems, classification, which, when rightly interpreted, means nothing more or less than a statement of the order in which living beings have been evolved from one another,’ I know not, indeed, whether Hunter ever formulated this idea. . . . But then hasty gene- ralisation was no habit of his mind. . . . When his labour ceased he was working out the great idea. But by such glimpses as we thus obtain of the character of his mind and the method of his inquiry, of the way of his genius to begin the search for the truths he sought at the furthest outposts, and from thence, so to speak, to work inward and upward—I cannot regard the possession of any facts and illustrations, which he was enabled to collect, but had not time to place, as wanton or purposeless, or even merely curious. To me, it is wonderful, but withal most suggestive, that the great mind of Hunter was not only far in advance of his own age, but is hardly overtaken by this.” (‘ Hunterian Ch’ation,’ pp. 8, 9.)