INTRODUCTORY ADDRESS. 63 great proportions in our day, was commenced by Hunter when “ he collected the heads of persons of different nations,* and this collection of crania was merely one step in working out the general problem of the proportion of the cranium to the face in the descending scale of animal intelligence rigidly adhered to in every detail, and his own specimens still out- numbering the additions of a century.” It is possible that this statement (made a dozen years ago) may now require some modification. It is impossible to give an accurate account of the total number of preparations in a museum which receives daily additions, but Prof. Stewart has been so kind as to furnish me with the following summaries of the original collection of Hunter, and of the museum as it existed at the College in 1887. In comparing these two collections it should be recollected that a large number of Hunter’s original specimens have by the lapse of time become spoiled, and have been replaced under the direction of the Museum Committee by other similar ones, known as “ Hunterian Substitutes.” It should also be added that in place of Hunter’s 215 microscopical preparations (of course of a very simple character) the College museum now contains many thousands, which are not reckoned in the annexed summary; that the collection of calculi has been supplemented by the gift of 1000 preparations from one dis- tinguished surgeon, and that the regular yearly additions to the museum may be taken at not less than 250. The pathological specimens, it will be seen, are more than quintupled. I should also add that the Hunterian specimens (1968 in number) which are classed as “ zoological,” and which show only the outward forms of animals, though they still exist at Lincoln’s Inn Fields, are no longer exhibited, since the present museum is strictly ana- tomical, and the grand zoological collection of the British Museum renders it unnecessary now to display them. This fact accounts for Mr. Holden’s statement as to the stuffed birds. I cannot account for Travers’s statement, quoted on p. 53, that the collection of fossils included at Hunter’s death about 1050 speci- mens, except by supposing that he was misinformed, and did not verify the statement given him. Table A is taken from the College Calendar, and would give the number of fossil specimens as 3709; yet this again appears erroneous, and the real numbers appeared * Abernethy, 4 Phys. Lect.,’ p. 83.