INTRODUCTORY ADDRESS. 10 shall merely say here that Hunter was born in Lanarkshire in 1728, and lived at home or in Glasgow till 1748, when he came to London to help his brother William in his dissecting room, intending if this did not suit him to join the army. He was, however, most successful as his brother’s assistant, and soon afterwards determined to adopt medicine or surgery as his profession; began his studies at Chelsea Hospital in 1749, and continued them at St. Bartholomew’s under Pott in 1751 ; entered as a surgical pupil at St. George’s in 1754, and was House Surgeon here in 1756, but only for five months.* He had for some time shared his * When Hunter first came to London be was engaged merely as his brother’s assistant, in preparing the dissections for his anatomical lectures, in helping the students, and making pre- parations for William Hunter’s museum, and then, “ during the summer months,” as Mr. Marshall says, “ and when not engaged in the dissecting-room and the museum, he devoted his time and thought to medicine and surgery, and finally resolved to pursue the latter. Thus early in life he began what was quite an innovation, to interweave pure scientific work with surgery, and so foresha- dowed his future great destiny.”—Marshall, ‘ Hunterian Oration,’ p. 10. Hunter’s entrance into the profession was remarkably late. There is no evidence that he had ever done anything in anatomy or any of the allied sciences till he first came to London at the age of twenty; then he passed through an unusually protracted student career—was house surgeon at St. George’s at the age of twenty- eight, and even after this was absent from England with the army for three years before commencing practice in London at the age of thirty-five. Holden, in his ‘ Hunterian Oration,’ tries to prove that Hunter studied at the University of Glasgow in the class of Physical Science. It seems evident, however, that the John Hunter whose entry Mr. Holden discovered was a different person; and yet few