APPENDIX. 77 by influencing the will, becomes the cause of the voluntary actions ; and by this connection all these principles ” (that is, the passive impressions received by the brain from the body, the passions of the mind excited by such sensations, and the bodily actions originated by the brain) “ can affect one another. Now the brain appears to be capable of two modes of action, and out of these arises every property of the brain. We may call the actions of the brain, mind: objects shall affect our senses so as form a peculiar state of mind; this, I call mental impression. Again, the mind can reason and exercise volition respecting objects. The former is involuntary, and belongs to brutes, the latter is voluntary. For instance, I am challenged to fight a duel, volition and reason determine me to go to it; but, when at the place my joints tremble, my stomach turns sicks; this is the effect of mental impression, or feelings of the mind. The two operations are very different; and, in general, the feelings of the mind, if strong, will prevent all reasoning.” In this passage we have a clear distinction between the “ mental impressions,” which brutes also have, and the “ reason and volition ” which are peculiar to man. Reason and volition, then, cannot be functions of the body, since the body is nearly or quite as perfect in the brute as in man. In the section also of the ‘ Lectures on Surgery ’ (p. 359— 361) which treats of “ the effects of mind on diseases,” we have the independence of the mind strongly asserted and illustrated by strikiug examples. Yet, we cannot but admit that several of the expressions quoted above would, if they stood alone, coun- tenance the merely materialistic view that what we call mind and will are only phenomena produced somehow or other by molecular changes in the matter of the brain. This, however, seems tome quite inconsistent with the result of Hunter’s teaching, looked at as a whole. That teaching dwells strongly on the intrinsic difference between matter and life, and between the properties of unorganised matter (dynamical, chemical, electrical, and other forces) and the vital actions produced in such matter when life has been added to it. And hardly less strongly does it bring out the essential difference between the corporeal actions which are produced by the various stimuli and sympathies, of which Hunter is never tired of speaking, and those mental and voli-