75 APPENDIX. of that magnificent, commentary on his system—the Hunterian Museum. The Hunterian idea of a life or vital principle independent of the organisation, yet in each organ working instinctively towards its preservation ... is a genuine philosophic idea. . . . “ Is not the progressive enlargement, the boldness without temerity of chirurgical views and chirurgical practice since Hunter’s time to the present day, attributable in almost every instance to his substitution of what may perhaps be called experimental dynamics for the mechanical notions or the less injurious traditional empiricism of his predecessors.” And besides these two eminent writers, we may be sure that as all reverent and sincere study of nature has always connected itself with the origin of nature, so Hunter’s philosophy has stimulated many of his hearers and readers in their search after truths higher than those which can be reached by the scalpel and the microscope. But the question remains how far these infer- ences from Hunter’s philosophy are justified by what he himself has written. Now, it must be at once admitted that in Hunter’s own hands the investigation of nature was directed to natural phenomena only. He speaks of “ mind ” and “ will,” but never speculates on their origin, and what he has left as to their nature is not very easy to understand. He teaches plainly enough that life is a principle superadded to matter, of the exact nature of which principle we know nothiug, but which gives to matter its power of organisation, of resistance to disintegration, of motion, and of self-reproduction,* and the degree in which this vital principle is contained in any part, or in other words, the force which the part exercises to resist disintegration, is called by him the * See vol. iii, pp. 115—117; also footnote, pp. 120 et eeq. Chap, iv of the ‘Surgical Lectures,’ vol. i, pp. 241—246, may be referred to as a very plain exposition of Hunter’s teaching as to the difference between organisation and life, and the independence of the former and its priority in time, though life is prior in causation. Life is compounded with every part of the animal machine, and gives to every part its inherent power of preserving itself and performing its own actions. These actions when not regarding the separate parts merely “ are of whole parts, as the stomach, heart, organs of respiration, organs of sensation, mind, and will.”