INTRODUCTORY ADDRESS. 28 ful; * and his operation for popliteal aneurism is a splendid achievement in itself, and a model of an advance in surgery resting on the soundest basis of physiological and pathological reasoning. The operations (five in number) which Hunter himself performed were remarkably successful, considering the condition of surgery in those days. Stanley + says, in 1839, “ almost to the present time were living the two individuals who were the subjects of the first and the third operations for aneurism per- formed by Mr. Hunter.” (There is a mistake in these numbers. Hunter’s first patient died of surgeons had induced them to decline. Such desperate cases John Hunter was never found to hesitate in embracing; he sought for the opportunity rather than rejected it whenever it offered.”—(Foot’s ‘ Life of Hunter,’ p. 247.) # See Home’s ‘ Life,’ p. xxxi, for some instances of Hunter’s daring and success as an operator; and see Paget, ‘Lect. on Surg. Path.,’ 1853, ii, 202, for the description of a large enchondroma (preserved in the museum) removed by Hunter in one of the operations spoken of by Home. In his ‘ Lectures ’ Hunter speaks of having “ tre- panned below the insertion of the muscles of the neck and with success,” and of having performed the Caesarean and other rare operations. Other authors speak of Hunter as an unskilful operator, and he certainly in his ‘ Lectures,’ vol. i, p. 210, calls operations “ a reflection on the healing art, a tacit acknowledgment of the in- efficiency of surgery. It is like an armed savage who attempts to get that by force which the civilised man would get by stratagem.” But in this he was thinking, I have no doubt, merely of the ampu- tation or removal of diseased parts, and would not have spoken so of the ligature of a wounded artery, the suture of a ruptured bladder, or any of the numerous operations now undertaken for strictly curative objects. In another place he says, “ Operations by which we mutilate a patient whom we cannot cure are an acknowledgment of the imperfection of our art.” But surely operations which do not mutilate and do cure are some of its most perfect achievements. f Stanley,4 Hunterian Oration.’