45 INTRODUCTORY ADDRESS. regard as its cause, i. e. the natural action which produces it, but the teleological object which he believes the phenomenon calculated to serve.* Much fault has been found justly enough with Hunter’s method for this confusion between efficient and final causes, and many have sneered at his teleological proclivities. This is an old battle- ground between rival metaphysicians.t There are * In Abernethy’s words, “ His unphilosophical language imputes design to unintelligent agency.”—(‘ Phys. Lect.,’ p. 79.) f Dr. W. Ogle, in his beautiful and profoundly interesting ‘ Translation of Aristotle on the Parts of Animals ’ (Introduction, foot-note, p. ii), gives the following illustration:—“ In a remarkable passage (‘ Phys.,’ ii, 8.4.) Aristotle thus states the materialistic view. ‘ Why, however, it must be asked, should we look on the operations of nature as dictated by a final cause and intended to realise some desirable end ? Why may they not be merely the results of neces- sity, just as the rain falls of necessity, and not that the corn may grow? F<>r the uprising of the watery vapour, its cooling when thus raised, and its fall as rain when cooled, are all matters of necessity; and though the rain makes the com grow, it no more occurs in order to cause that growth than a shower which spoils the farmer’s crop at harvest-time occurs in order to do that mischief. Now, why may not this which is true of the rain be true also of the parts of the body ? Why, for instance, may not the teeth grow to be such as they are merely of necessity, and the fitness of the front ones with their sharp edge for the comminution of the food, and of the hind ones with their flat surface for its mastication, be no more than an accidental coincidence, and not the cause that has deter- mined their development ? And so with all other parts wherever there is an appearance of final causes. In short, whenever accident caused all the parts of the body to be developed spontaneously in this suitable manner, to be developed, that is, just as they would have been had design presided over the formation the resulting wholes survived; but when this was not the case they perished, and still do perish, as Empedocles insists, when speaking of certain monstrosities.’ “ The explanation suggested in this passage will be found,” pursues Dr. Ogle, “ recurring in after ages. A similar hypothesis,