41 INTRODUCTORY ADDRESS. and finally palaeontology, in the observations on the fossil bones found near Bayreuth. No one knows Hunter who has not read some of these papers, and few who have read some will stop till they have read all. But now I must try in a very few minutes to give some intelligible sketch of Hunter as a writer. In the first place it must be allowed that Hunter was not intended for a writer at all, though no man wrote more strenuously or more constantly than he did. But what he was daily writing (and that chiefly by the pens of his faithful amanuenses Clift and Bell) was the careful description and registra- tion of each specimen that he dissected—notes which were lost to the world through his brother- in-law’s misconduct.* Hunter was confessedly a blooded mammal inhabiting the depths of the sea. It is in this tract that Hunter tells the story, so characteristic of his profuse liberality where natural research was in question, of how he engaged a surgeon at considerable expense (£500 say his biogra- phers) to make a voyage to Greenland in a whaler, and furnished him with all necessaries for examining and preserving the interest- ing parts, and with instructions for making general observations, and how all that he received for this great expense “ was a piece of whale’s skin with some small animals sticking on it.” Among the vivid descriptions in this tract one more poetical and picturesque than is common with Hunter gives a forcible picture of the circulation in the spermaceti whale, the blood rushing with immense velocity through an aorta of a foot in diameter under the stroke of a heart which filled a wide tub, and threw out ten to fifteen gallons of blood at a stroke. It may also be noticed that, according to Sir R. Owen, “ the minute, original, and accurate account of the formation of whalebone was pirated by the editor of the second edition of Cuvier’s * Anatomic Comparee,’ to eke out the imperfection of the account given by Cuvier himself.” * “ It is,” says Sir R. Owen. “ to the zeal and industry which induced Mr. Clift to transcribe portions of the Hunterian MSS., at a