APPENDIX. 80 as well as in the mind.”* Does not this exactly correspond to Green’s language, quoted on p. 73, “Nature must not only feel she must know—her own being ; that is, mind must be super- added to life ” ? I hold then that Green and Coleridge were perfectly justified in their interpretation of Hunter’s philosophy as abounding everywhere in the assertion of a supernatural order and plan (just as I hold that they were perfectly justified in their inter- pretation of nature itself in the same sense) ; and as showing that this plan culminates in the production of the only creature known to us as possessing reason and voluntary control over his own actions. Not that I would venture to assert, in opposi- tion to so many eminent thinkers, that these doctrines cau be absolutely proved by the study of nature merely. But Hunter’s view of nature appears to me as strongly opposed to what is called determinism as it is possible to conceive. I do not wish to put this view of the matter in the least degree more strongly than is warranted by a perusal of Hunter’s ■writings, and I have stated explicitly in the text (p. 47) that there is nothing in Hunter’s writings to show what views he himself held on this world-old controversy, if any. It seems to me that he either abstained altogether from thinking about such things, or that he was too much wrapped up in his study of nature to have time to put his views into definite shape, or possibly that he was conscious that he did not shine in the treatment of such subjects. This, however, does not in any way affect the question what the logical inference is from tbe adoption of his views about life. To that question I see only one answer. Any student of nature is of course at liberty to uphold the necessitarian doctrine, which indeed so many eminent students do uphold; and, of course, a student of Hunter may also uphold it; but he can only do so logically by repudiating everything which his master has said on the subject. * Vol. iv, footnote, p. 278. PEINTKD BT AD LA ED AND SON, DAB'I HOI.OMEW CLOSE, E.C., AND 20, IIANOVEB SQUABK, W.