APPENDIX. 70 tions of bis work ; it may be applicable to the treatise on the Venereal disease, and possibly Babington meant it only to be so taken. If he meant to speak of Hunter’s work as a whole it is unjust.* No man ever tried more earnestly to ascend, step by step, through a slow and gradual induction, to his general con- clusions—and if he did not entirely succeed it was, at any rate, partly the result of necessity—one man’s life was too short; partly again, no doubt, it was due to want of early training in philosophy or metaphysics, so that his method of reasoning is often glaringly defective f—and doubtless he often anticipated # Abernetby says (‘ Pliys. Lect.,’ p. 19): “ At an early period he conceived those notions of life which were confirmed by his future inquiries and experiments. He began his observations on the incubated egg in the year 1755, which must either have suggested or corroborated all his opinions with regard to the cause of the vital phenomena. He perceived that, however different in form and faculty, every creature was nevertheless allied to himself, because it was a living being; and therefore he became solicitous to inquire how the vital processes were carried on in all the varieties of animal and even of vegetable existence. . . . Whether trath be discovered by that penetrating foresight which is characteristic of genius, or ascertained by the more laborious methods of experiment and induction, still, when it is once found, each succeeding observation serves but to convince us of its nature and reality. No one could be more scrupulous in admitting propositions to be proved than Mr. Hunter; yet he was convinced that his opinions respecting life were true, by a course of patient and persevering meditation on all its phenomena.” f I can conceive no more inappropriate praise than Abernethy’s in his ‘ Hunterian Oration.’ “ In his reasonings I can perceive no inference deduced from insufficient or irrevelant premises.” Le Gros Clark says (‘ Hunterian Oration,’ p. 21): “In speaking of accuracy as characterising all that Hunter did, I mean that he was scrupulously accurate in his facts drawn from actual observation; but we find in his writings examples of a form of inaccuracy that is probably due in a measure to defective training, but is also evidence of an amount of self-reliance which induced him to treat sometimes with unmerited indifference the opinions and researches of others.” Mr. Clark adduces, as an instance, that passage in the first chapter of his ‘ Lectures on the Principles of Surgery ’ in which he is arguing that life is not the same as either chemical action or