29 Remnants of Pudding when it is peeled, whereas of baked potatoes even the skin may be eaten. If any cold baked potatoes should remain on hand, these can easily be turned into potato rissoles or croquettes, and can then reappear at supper in an entirely new and acceptable form. If any cold curry remains on hand, mix it all together with the rice, then add to it from a pint to a quart of stock or water, make very hot, add seasoning to taste, and serve it as Mulligatawny soup. It will be found excellent on a cold winter night. Value of Scraps. Little insignificant scraps of fish or meat can be turned into a nice savoury for breakfast or dinner as follows :—Chop the meat, poultry, game, or fish very finely. Dust it with pepper and salt. Place a morsel of butter in a small stewpan, and as soon as it melts add a little minced shalot and chopped parsley; then add the meat or fish. Make very hot. Have ready some squares of buttered toast or fried bread, pile the mixture upon this, and send to table. Remnants of Pudding-. Treat the remains of a cold milk pudding thus :—Put a layer of either jam or golden syrup at the bottom of a clean pie dish ; break up the cold pudding and place it on this. Cover with stale bread crumbs, which are better and handier than fresh. Cover with some more jam or golden syrup, and make very hot in the oven. If the pudding seems at all dry, the bread crumbs may be first soaked in a little milk or water, or a little milk may be added to the pudding. Remnants of a cold steamed pudding may be treated in the same way. Cold suet pudding of any sort, if treated as follows, will not be recognised in its new and welcome guise. Cut it into neat slices, grease the bottom of a pie dish, and strew it with sugar. Place a layer of slices on this, and sprinkle with a little more brown sugar and some chopped currants. Repeat until the dish is full. Strew the top with bread crumbs, chopped currants and sugar, place a few tiny bits of butter here and there, and bake in a moderate oven until very hot. Then serve at once. When any jam roly-poly pudding remains, place a little more jam at the bottom of a pie dish. Strew bread crumbs first soaked in sweetened water on top. Put a little more jam over, bake in a moderate oven till very hot, and serve at once. A treacle or golden syrup pudding may be treated successfully in the same way, and so too may the remains of a baked bread pudding. Remnants of Vegetables. If any portions of cold cabbage, cold brussels sprouts, cold braised onions, or cold boiled potatoes remain on hand, add them one and all with a few stale crusts to the soup for the day, not to the stock pot, as this would turn the stock sour. Any cold gravy remaining