69 Poulet a la Bonne Femme thicken it with a little flour. Add pepper and salt to taste, and stir till the gravy is of a nice rich hue. Pour it over the bird, and serve with chipped potatoes. (See page 71.) Poulet a la Bonne Femme. Poultry, which is always a more or less costly thing to buy, is practically beyond the means of our housewife, but tough old fowls are often to be had of large size for is. 6d. or is. 9d. each, and if treated as follows will be found delicious. Take an old fowl trussed as if for boiling. Wipe it out carefully with a cloth wrung out in very hot water, and put an onion stuck with a clove inside it. Place it in a stewpan. Add just sufficient water to come half-way up it, and then simmer very slowly at the side of the stove for two hours and a half. Take out and cut the fowl into neat joints. Place an ounce of cooking butter and salt butter in a deep pie dish, or a fireproof china saucepan with a handle. Add to it a finely-minced shalot, and as much finely-minced garlic as will go on the point of a small knife. Let the butter melt. Then add the joints of fowl. Place the dish in the oven, and cook from fifteen to twenty minutes, basting well every now and then. Serve in the dish in which it was cooked, and send chipped potatoes and a salad to table with it. This forms a nice little dish ; and if a guest has to be entertained at dinner or supper, a tough turkey poult, if cooked thus, will be found equally good. Veal a la Bettine. Take some slices of cold roast or boiled veal. If underdone, so much the better. Dust each slice with pepper and salt. Place half an ounce of cooking butter in a clean small stewpan. Add to it a heaped teaspoonful of finely-minced parsley and a dessert-spoonful of minced shalot or onions. Fry for a couple of minutes, then add the veal. Make very hot, dish up on a hot dish, garnish with a border of mashed potatoes, and send it to table at once. If there is a good deal of veal, increase the butter to 1 oz. Cold Mutton. This is good, treated as follows :—Cut the cold mutton into neat slices. Dust each slice with flour, and with a little pepper and salt. Place an oz. of clarified dripping in a stewpan. Add to it a finely- minced onion, and fry for three minutes. Then add a gill of stock or water, a little Harvey sauce, and a large spoonful of red currant jelly ; if this cannot be spared, use plum jam without the stones. Then add the mutton and make very hot. Dish up on a hot dish with a border of mashed potatoes, and send to table at once. Mushroom catsup may be used in place of Harvey sauce, if liked. Beef au Gratin. Take some slices of cold roast beef, arrange them neatly on a fire- proof dish, season with minced parsley, minced onion or shalot, pepper