126 To Clean the Stockpot otherwise hot water alone will do ; rinse and dry them well. If the saucepans are enamel, clean them as directed above. If burnt, soak well with hot water and soda first ; then rub the burnt parts with a rag and a little Sapolio, or Brooke’s soap. For tin saucepans wash as before directed, but dry very thoroughly and leave on the plate rack for at least half-an-hour. If saucepans have been allowed to get very dirty they may be scoured with fine sand, but if they are cleaned as I have directed each time they have been used, this should not be necessary. For a saucepan of seamless steel, wash first well with hot water and soda, then rinse and rub with a cloth dipped in flour. Dry, and then leave on the plate rack for twenty minutes at least. To Clean Frying-Pans. Fill with hot water and add a bit of soda as soon as done with ; scour with sand, and dry very thoroughly. Omelette pans should be cleaned in the same way. If burnt, use Brooke’s soap on a bit of rag. To Clean Cake and Pudding Tins and Pans. Soak them in hot water in which has been added a good sized lump of soda. Scour well with a brush. If very dirty, sand or Brooke’s soap may be used. Dry very thoroughly, and leave on the plate rack for twenty minutes. Meat Baking Tins. These should be well soaked in hot water and plenty of soda directly they have been used. If they have been allowed to get very dirty, use a stiff saucepan brush and sand or Brooke’s soap. Rinse well, and dry very carefully. To Clean the Stockpot. Fill it with hot water directly it has been emptied, put in a bit of soda, and leave it on the stove for half-an-hour. Then scour it well with a stiff brush ; once a week use a little sand or Brooke’s soap. Rinse in hot and then in cold water, and dry very thoroughly. If the egg whisk has been used, wash it well in plenty of hot water, or, better still, put it into a jug of hot water as soon as done with ; dry it, and leave it on the plate rack for twenty minutes. If the grater has been used put it into hot water directly, then scrub well, rinse, dry, and leave on the plate rack for twenty minutes. To Clean a Hair or Wire Sieve. Place it in a basin full of hot water to which has been added a bit of soda. Then scrub well with a stiff saucepan brush. Rinse first in hot and then in cold water. Dry with a clean cloth, and leave on the hot plate rack for half-an-hour.