147 An Afternoon Reception into the room or afterwards, whichever is preferred ; the latter is the best plan, as it ensures the coffee being thoroughly hot. If the maid is allowed to wait every evening as a regular thing, she will not be awkward or clumsy when guests have to be enter- tained, and the hostess may feel secure that her little entertainment will pass off successfully. An Afternoon Reception. If the breadwinner is in such a position that a large circle of friends is likely to prove of use to him in his profession, about the cheapest way of entertaining and enlarging one’s acquaintance is to have a regular monthly reception day, from 4 to 7. For preference arrange for a Sunday, or a Saturday afternoon, when, as a matter of course, the husband would be at home. The refreshments to be provided would be tea and coffee, bread and butter, both white and brown (for recipe see page 80), and one or two cakes of different kinds. For, say forty to fifty people every month, an outlay of 10s. should suffice. Thus :— £ lb. tea . | lb. coffee 3 quarts milk . Extra bread and loaves tt lb. of butter . Hot buttered cakes, say 2 lbs. lump sugar Bought cakes of different sorts Two pots of meat, at bid. per pot Cress for sandwiches Brown loaf .... Services of charwoman (a half day) Total . d. 7 6 o 6 7 o 4 0 1 2 3 o 10 o The charwoman of course should make the tea and coffee, and keep the kettle boiling. The maid would open the door and announce the guests, and help to pour out the tea and coffee. If the dining-room communicates with the drawing-room, matters are rendered easier; failing this, if the services of an extra waitress cannot be afforded, it will be best to press a friend, or a couple of friends, into the service for pouring out the tea, &c., &c. The best plan is to arrange the table at one end of the room, buffet-wise, the cups and saucers, tea and coffee, sugar and milk, &c., being placed at the back, and the cakes, bread and butter, sandwiches, &c., in front, so that guests can help themselves. Of course if a reception of this kind is given, say six times during a year, it will add on at least ^3 to the housekeeping expenses. I have calculated for this under the heading of “ Sundries ” ; but if care be exercised it may be possible to save a trifle each week towards the entertaining fund.