Afternoon Tea and prettiest vases are of white china, costing for centre vase is. ofd., and for small ones for the corners only 6fd. each. With these, and well-polished glass and silver, and a pretty lamp shade, the table will always be dainty. The Luncheon Table. The children would perhaps take their dinner at this time. The table should be laid in a similar way, but unless guests are expected, the centre should not be used ; and a large knife and fork, or a fish knife and fork, if fish is to appear instead of meat, and a spoon and fork for the pudding, will be all that is necessary, with water-jugs, glasses, plates for fruit, &c. The Breakfast Table. This should always be as bright and pretty as possible, so that the breadwinner may take a pleasant memory to town to last him through the day. Jam and marmalade should be served in pretty dishes. (These only cost 6fd. each). Mats should be placed on the table for the hot dishes ; a hot substantial dish should always figure at breakfast, for in all probability the husband’s lunch will be limited. Children should always look their freshest and neatest at this meal. A plate should be set for each person, and a small knife and fork, and a serviette in its ring. The mistress of course takes the tea or coffee tray. Afternoon Tea. If this is a substantial meal it should be laid in the dining-room, but if the children take their tea in the nursery it should be in the drawing-room. In the dining-room it will be better to use an ordinary table-cloth, the tea-tray being put alone at one end of the table and the flower- vase or bowl in the middle. The plates of bread and butter, cake, &c., should be arranged in a regular fashion, and the little dishes of jam or marmalade, &c., put in as orderly a way as possible between them. For tea in the drawing-room a pretty five o’clock tea-cloth should be used, and if folded neatly afterwards one will last for quite a long time. The tea things are then arranged on one table, and the cake, bread and butter, &c., should be arranged on a second table, or, better still, upon a properly-fitted cake stand. These are to be had from 3s. 1 id. upwards, and are a distinct saving in the long run, as they do away with the need for a second table-cloth. The late dinner or supper should now be cooked. When it is ready, the maid must take the dishes in and place them on the table. She should hand the plates, &c., and afterwards clear away all the things, such as knives, forks, bread, dirty glasses, salt and pepper, remove the crumbs with a crumb-scoop to a little tray, and then place the fruit plates, &c., in front of each person. 13°