75 Brussels Sprouts with White Sauce length of a finger. Have ready a saucepan half full of absolutely boiling fat—clarified beef-dripping for preference—from which the blue smoke is rising. Add the croutons, a few at a time only, and fry till of a bright golden-brown hue. Take out, drain carefully, and use as directed. Brussels Sprouts with White Sauce. Take lb. of Brussels sprouts, and cook them in salted water; while they are cooking proceed as follows : Place rather more than half a pint of milk in a clean enamelled iron stewpan. Add to it a bunch of herbs, i.e. parsley, thyme, and bay leaf, all tied together, a tiny bit of mace, a slice of onion, a slice of carrot, a slice of turnip, and, if it can be had, a bit of celery. Cover the pan and simmer gently at one side of the stove for fifteen minutes, or until the milk tastes strongly of the flavouring herbs, but do not let it boil away even in the slightest degree. Then strain it through a hair sieve into a clean saucepan. Thicken it with i oz. of flour and I oz. of butter to a paste by means of a little cold milk, and stir until of the con- sistency of thick cream. Add pepper and salt to taste, and a few drops of lemon juice. Make very hot. By this time the Brussels sprouts should be quite cooked and tender. Drain them very care- fully and thoroughly ; add them to the sauce ; toss until very hot. Dish up on a hot dish. Garnish with finger croutons, and serve at once. Leeks with Cheese Sauce. Wash a bundle of leeks very thoroughly in at least half-a-dozen waters ; then drain them and cook them slowly in salted water, or, if it can be afforded, in milk. Place half a pint of milk in a clean enamelled iron stewpan. While it is coming to the boil, mix i oz. of flour with i oz. of butter to a paste by means of a wine-glassful of cold milk. Add this to the hot milk by degrees, stirring all the time in order to avoid burning, until it is of the consistency of cream. Then add pepper and salt to taste, and finally 2 ozs. of finely-grated cheese. Any kind most convenient will do, from Dutch to Cheddar, but a mixture of Parmesan and Gruyere gives by far the best results. Stir until the sauce is of a deep yellow colour. Make very hot. By this time the leeks should be thoroughly cooked and tender. Drain them carefully, arrange them neatly on a hot dish, pour the sauce over and around. Garnish with finger croutons and serve at once. Artichokes in the Lyonnaise Fashion. Peel 2^ lbs. of white artichokes, and as each is peeled throw it into water to which has been added a little vinegar ; this is to ensure their being of a good colour. Then parboil them for six minutes. Take out, drain, and dry them carefully on a clean cloth. Add salt to taste and a gill and a half of oil. Place the artichokes in a white china (fireproof) dish. Pour the oil over them, and sprinkle with a teaspoonful of finely-minced garlic and with breadcrumbs. Note— use the latter thickly. Place in a moderately hot oven, and bake till quite tender. Then take out and serve at once.