CHAPTER IV 27 Some Small Economies Pay your way—Hot nieals—Potatoes— Value of scraps—Remnants of pudding—Remnants of vegetables—How to hash meat—How to buy meat—Allowance of meat—Eating fat—Lean joints—Other economies—Division of a joint—Fish for a change. In catering upon so limited a sum as is at our disposal here, the first thing to be considered is the size of the household. Thus, for a family consisting of husband, wife, and one servant, 50s. a week, which is at the rate of 10s. per head for food and cleaning materials, should suffice in a modest way. Whereas 30s. a week, if it has to supply husband, wife, and two or three children and a servant, means most rigid economy if both ends are to meet. Pay Your Way. Bills, of course, are not to be thought of. Even for such daily necessaries as milk and bread, it will be found by far the best and cheapest plan to pay cash. This does away with the insidious temp- tation to run up a bill, and also allows for occasional variations in the quantities that are required. Make a rule, then, of “ no bills ” at the outset of your housewifely career. If the neighbourhood is new to you, and you do not know the local standard of prices, it is well to go round to the different shops and obtain a price-list from each. Then compare them, and select the lowest compatible with good quality, not forgetting that sugar at 2^d. per lb. is cheaper than that at 2d. if the latter is half sand, and that currants containing a large proportion of gravel are dearer at 3d. than good sound fruit at 4d. or 5d. per lb., and that this will be found true in all departments. The chief trouble, and also the chief item in the catering, is sure to be the butcher’s bill. With our limited means it will not be possible to afford English meat except upon rare occasions ; and poultry, too, in the majority of cases, unless fowls are kept, will be quite out of the question. But in spite of these drawbacks, it should yet be possible to have a good hot dinner every day for the little ones, and a hot supper or dinner for the head of the household. Hot Meals. The question of hot meals is, I know, a very vexed one in small houses with a maid of all work. No doubt they are rather more