E 65 Giblet Stew and if possible a little celery, cut into inch lengths. Add the beef and fry all together for ten minutes, then add enough stock or water just to cover the meat. Put the lid on, and simmer very slowly for two and a half or three hours. Add salt and pepper to taste. Dish up the meat on a hot dish ; arrange the vegetables round it in neat groups. Thicken the gravy with an ounce of flour, mixed to a paste with a little cold water, and stir all one way until it is of the consistency of cream. A few drops of colouring may be added, if it is not a good brown colour, and a little more pepper and salt if thought needful. Pour over the meat, and serve with baked potatoes and any other vegetables liked. Giblet Stew. This is very good, and especially light and nice for children. Giblets cost from 4d. to 6d. per lb. according to locality. Take two lbs. of fresh giblets and wash them very thoroughly. Then dry them carefully. Place an oz. of butter or dripping in a clean stewpan. As soon as it melts add to it the giblets, with a small onion peeled and sliced, a small carrot scraped and sliced, and if possible a bit of celery first well washed and dried, and cut into one-inch lengths. Fry all together for six or eight minutes, and stir continuously in order to avoid burning. Take out the giblets and reserve them. Then add half a pint of stock or water, and half a pint of dried or fresh green peas, which, if dried, should first be soaked according to the directions given upon each packet. Place the lid on tightly, and simmer very slowly until the vegetables are thoroughly soft and tender. Then return the giblets to the stew, and continue to simmer until they too are quite cooked. Thicken the sauce with an oz. of flour and half an oz. of butter kneaded together, and stir till quite thick. Then add pepper and salt to taste, dish up on a hot dish, with a border of hot wel!-mashed potatoes, and send to table at once. Either fowl or turkey giblets may be used for this dish, but a mixture of the two is perhaps best. For duck or goose giblets place an oz. of clarified dripping in a clean stewpan ; as soon as it melts add to it the giblets, which must first be well washed and thoroughly dried, three large onions peeled and finely chopped, and a teaspoonful of finely-powdered sage. Fry’all well together for ten minutes, turning frequently, then add half a pint of previously cooked peas, either fresh or dried, and half a pint of water. Draw the pan to one side of the fire, and simmer very slowly until the onions, &c., are quite cooked, then thicken with an oz. of flour and half an oz. of butter kneaded together. Stir till thick ; add pepper and salt to taste, make very hot, dish up on a hot dish, and serve, accompanied by baked potatoes and apple sauce. Apple Sauce. Take three large apples. Peel and core them, slice them thinly. Place them in a clean stewpan, or, better still, in a deep jam jar. Add just enough water to cover them, and ^ oz. of brown sugar. Stew till very tender, then beat them up with a fork until quite light. Add a little more sugar if required, make hot, dish up in a sauce tureen, and serve,