35 The Butcher would be ample, which at a^d. the half quartern comes to is. 6d a week for bread. If then we put down 2s. for the baker we shall be near the mark. So far then out of our 30s. we have spent 21s. Cleaning’ Materials such as soap, soda, black lead, blacking, hearthstone, globe polish starch, blue, camphor wax, &c. &c., will have to be bought from time to time, and it will not be possible therefore to allow less than is. a week for these. So that the sum of 8s. a week is all, according to the foregoing estimates, that we shall be able to reserve for meat. The Butcher. It is probable that the is. 6d. extra which I have allowed for sundries on the grocer’s bill will not often be required, so that in reality we shall have from gs. 6d. to 10s. each week wherewith to buy meat and fish. Let us see how this sum can best be divided. English meat will be practically out of the question, but if the housewife is fortunate enough to live in a cheap neighbourhood, joints of New Zealand meat of excellent quality may be had at prices which range from 2d. or 2jd. alb., the price asked for breast of New Zealand mutton, up to 4|d. or 5d. for a leg, or 4|d. for the whole forequarters, which is by far the most economical investment. Assuming that the forequarter weighs 14 lbs., 6s. will be a fair price to pay for it, and it can be divided as before directed. A good hock of Canadian bacon may be had for 3^d. or 4d. a lb., so that one of ample size to provide a hot dinner, a hot supper (see page 28 for directions), and to serve as a relish for breakfast through- out the week may be bought for 2s. 6d. Beef pieces and suet to form a pudding may be had for is.; and is. may be spent for fish on Friday. Another week a piece of topside of American beef, at 6d. a lb., 2s. 6d. for the joint of 5 lbs., could form the Sunday dinner, and will serve for Monday also, and perhaps for early dinner on Tuesday as well. On Wednesday a joint of mutton, 6 or 8 lbs. in weight, will cost half-a- crown, or at the outside 3s., and with care should last over Thursday. On Friday fish again, and on Saturday steak pudding made from the pieces, may form the menu. So that, in any case, the butcher’s and fishmonger’s bills together will come to a total of 10s. or 10s. 6d. a week. Of course, if the housekeeping allowance can be by any means stretched to 35s. weekly, it will be possible to buy better meat, and more of it, and now and then it will be possible to purchase a little English meat, which nothing can equal or excel. The Fishmong-er. I have bracketed the fishmonger with the butcher, because, with the limited sum at the housewife’s command, it will only be possible to spend money on fish which would otherwise be spent on meat.