90 Carpets Floor Covering1. Cover the whole of the flat right through with cork carpet; it is easily kept clean, wears wonderfully, and lies well under another carpet when this is desired. Moreover, it will not be necessary to have carpets in any of the bedrooms with it. A rug by each bed will be all that is required. The price of a first-rate quality is two shillings per square yard, or in squares as follows :— To cover a floor space of 3 yds. by 2 yds. . „ „ 3 yds. by 3 yds. . „ „ 3^ yds. by 3 yds. „ „ 4 yds. by 3 yds. . „ „ 4? yds. by 3 yds. „ „ 4 yds. by 3^ yds. £° 11 9 0180 1 1 o I 4 o I 7 o 1 8 o ^699 So that for the sum of about £y the whole flat could be covered. The colour I recommend is a dull sage green, as it accords with everything, and wears admirably. Carpets. Choose for the dining-room a Romanhurst carpet in two shades of dull sage green and art blue, size 10 ft. 6 in. by 9 ft.; it costs £1, 16s. 9d. For the drawing-room also I advise a Romanhurst; a dull and a lighter shade of art blue will harmonise with the walls. In bedrooms carpets are unnecessary. A rug beside each bed, and, if liked, a rug in front of the fireplace, will be all that is necessary. A Deccan rug, size 6 ft. 6 in. by 4 ft., costs but 6s. 9d., or a Kurd rug 7s. 6d.; either are equally suitable. A good warm rug can be had, price 2s. nd. or 3s. 1 id., which will serve for the servant’s bedside. A long narrow Kurd rug will be best for the hall, or if it is square, a broad carpet-like rug ; either will cost ys. 6d. Outside the various doors and in the lavatory and bath-room place the useful little “ Tan- giers mats,” which can be had in a variety of colours, price is. nd. each ; us. 6d. the set of half-a-dozen. Thus the total cost for floor covering, if we include a rug for kitchen use after cooking operations are over for the day, will be just about ,£10, 10s. The Dining’-room. An antique suite of six rush-seated chairs, high- backed, in fumed oak, two arm-chairs to match, and a quaint settee . . . . £y o o An overmantel to match . . . . . 1150 A dinner wagon to match 250