To Turn Out the Dining-Room this, and leave it to dry on. Then brush it off, and polish it well with a clean leather. If any articles are chased or embossed, wash them again, and brush them well. A little stiff penny nail-brush answers for this. Then dry and polish thoroughly. Use water as hot as the hands can bear it, if you wish your silver to look nice ; and if gloves are worn, the silver can be cleaned after the maid is dressed for the afternoon. Fridays. The same routine ; but if possible the maid should get up a little earlier, so that the dining-room can receive its weekly turning-out. To Turn Out the Dining1-Room. Pin up the curtains and fold up the table-cloth. Put all the chairs and smaller articles outside if possible. Cover up the sofa. Clean the grate. First damp all the ashes ; this saves making a dust before taking them up. Then brush the grate well, especially the back of it, where soot collects. Have a special brush for this. When the grate has been thoroughly brushed, use the blacklead very sparingly; don’t cake it on ; this is a wasteful habit, and only spoils the look of the fireplace. Then polish thoroughly until it shines again. Clean the fender and fireirons and the hearth as directed before. Sweep the room. Leave the dust to settle, and meanwhile get on with other work. Then come back. Dust the surround thoroughly, and be careful about the corners. Polish it with camphor wax, as before directed. If the suite is only stained and varnished, it will only require dusting. If of fumed or black oak, or real walnut or mahogany, polish it with camphor wax. Dust the stove again. Remove the dust-sheets. Dust all the furniture and ornaments carefully ; replace them. Unpin the curtains, and the room is ready. The Bath-Room should be turned out on Fridays, and also the staircase. Cleaning1 the Staircase. If the paint is ivory, or white, or light-coloured, this should be washed down from top to bottom every week. Use warm water and plenty of not too strong soap. Go well into the corners with a floor- cloth put over the finger. If the staircase is dark-stained oak, sweep and dust it very carefully, and then polish the sides with camphor wax. For the stair carpets use a stiff brush very, slightly dipped into damp salt or tea leaves ; salt is by far the best. To Clean Stair-Rods. Use a little Globe polish on a small bit of rag, and polish with a leather. *33