111 Lamps, Stoves, and Sundries Kitchen. The eleven-guinea estimate for a flat gives a list of every requisite for this. Scullery. Nothing extra is required for this. Provide a wooden or cork mat for the maid to stand on when washing-up. Linen Chest and Linen. The estimate given for the flat will serve for this, as the only extra required will be the sheets, blankets, toilet covers, and towels for the additional rooms, which will add roughly £2, 14s. for each room to the list already given. The estimates for the china cupboard and the plate and cutlery estimates will also serve for a house. Lamps, Stoves, and Sundries. The very best lamps for a country house, villa, or cottage are the “ Coloured Hall Lanterns,” which, in amber or green, cost 6s. 6d. For a passage, or bath-room, or lavatory, or a nursery, place high up, out of the reach of the little ones, “The Bronzed Iron Lamp Bracket,” to swing, with 40 candle-power brass burner, globe and shade complete, 6s. 6d. For a dining-room, “The Bronzed Suspension Lamp,” with duplex burner, rose shade, and eye-screen, 18s. 6d. For a drawing-room table lamp, the “ Wrought-iron and Copper Model,” with duplex burner, &c., complete, 10s. 6d. For a bedroom bracket lamp, the “ Bronzed Iron,” at 6s. 6d. ; and for a kitchen and scullery, the tin or iron bracket lamp, at from 3s. 6d. to 5s. 6d. Cheaper lamps than these can of course be had, but an over- cheap lamp is never safe. The cheapest, best, and most artistic candelabra are of wrought- iron ; height, 18 inches, for three candles each ; price 3s. nd. ; while the flower fitments for these, also of wrought-iron, cost 8d. each, and can be fitted to the candelabra instead of candles. The cheapest reliable make of oil stoves, for warming and cooking purposes, costs 4s. nd. and 5s. ud. But they can be had from 2s. 1 id. upwards. A candlestick for carrying purposes should always have a glass shade, and these cost, candlestick and shade combined, is. 9d. A pretty hall gong and stand can be had for 4s. 1 id. Baths. If the house does not possess a bath-room, these will be another necessity. The smallest size of hip-bath costs 9s. 6d., and the smallest-sized sponge bath, 4s. 9d.