94 The Spare Bedroom green or sunset-yellow. This costs 6|d. per yard, and is 36 inches wide. The curtains should be made to hang perfectly plain from the cornice poles, and should reach just to the lower edge of the inside sill. Plain butter muslin, at 2|d. the yard, will be the best for the short muslin blinds. Allowing two yards to each long curtain, and two pairs, one to wash and one to wear, to each window, eight yards should make the curtains, at a cost of some 4s. 6d., while a shilling will be ample to allow for butter muslin for two sets of short blinds. The best bed- room, therefore, need only come to a total cost of £20. The Spare Bedroom. For the spare bedroom I advise the “ Howth suite.” This may be had enamelled and decorated in a variety of shades. I should choose a pale pink suite, just the colour of the pink almond blossoms in the wall-paper. The “ Howth ” is excellent value, since it consists of a 3-feet 6-inch wardrobe, chest of drawers and dressing-table combined, toilet-glass, towel-rail, chair, and a marble-topped wa^hstand with pale-blue tiled back. The price of this suite complete is only £$, 10s. If a slightly better suite is required, “ The Dalkey ” can be had, in white enamel— wardrobe with plate-glass door; marble-topped and tiled-back wash- stand, towel-rail, two chairs, and chest of drawers and dressing-table combined, for £5, 18s. s. d. A fender will cost 19 Fireirons in polished steel 20 Soiled linen basket 20 Drum clock . . . . . . . . 2 11 A pair of china candlesticks ..... 16 A set of ivory and gold toilet ware . . . . 4 11 A single bedstead complete with wire mattress, wool mattress, bolster and feather pillow, in black iron and brass, may be had for ^1, 17s. 6d. This could be enamelled white to match the rest of the furniture for a small extra sum. Four and sixpence must be allowed for the long curtains, which should be of the same make and material as those for the best bed- room. Choose old rose or a dull pink. The short curtains can be of butter muslin. A comfortable arm-chair in rush and wicker-work will cost 6s. 9d., and is wanted, as there is no couch. The total cost of furnishing the spare room well and comfortably is thus about £9. The Servant’s Room. This should be made as comfortable as possible, for the lot of a maid of all work is at the best but a hard one, and a servant’s room should be as pretty and bright in its way as her mistress’s. “If a