Some Diet Rules for Children 139 She must never take the children into any strange house without the mother's previous knowledge and consent. She must not allow the children to make friends with, or to play with, strange children. She must not allow them to drink at any public fountain, using the public cup. It is easy to carry a small horn tumbler, or, better still, to take a bottle containing cold boiled water, if the children are likely to be thirsty, as they often are in summer time. She must not buy for them, or allow them for themselves, ice cream at small shops or from a barrow. She must not allow strangers to kiss the baby or children. She must on no account tell them any tales of an alarming nature about bogies, &c., or frighten them with threats of policemen, or fairies, or hobgoblins. Nurse girls are often terrible offenders in this respect. If her religion differs from yours, she must not take them into her own place of worship. She must not tell them religious tales of an exciting nature. The religion of little children of what creed soever should be a Gospel of Love. She must never slap or pinch them, no matter how naughty they may be. The mother is the proper person to correct her children. She must never give them what they ask for unless they say “ please ” and “ thank you.” If, when the mother is out, one of the children shows signs of illness suddenly, she should send for the nearest doctor at once. It is better to pay the doctor for a needless visit, than have to pay a long bill for a serious illness. If one of the children receives a hurt of any kind, or falls badly, or knocks its head, the mother must be told at once. Impress also upon her that if the truth is told, you will never be angry, even should the occurrence be entirely her fault. This is of the utmost importance, as a neglected fall may often have very serious consequences. If you are out at bath time, the children should never be bathed when in a profuse perspiration. If from some cause they seem very hot, and the skin is very dry, they should not be bathed before the mother has seen them. She must never allow them to play with knives, or scissors, or glass of any description. She must never give them unboiled milk to drink, nor anything to eat between meals. Some- Diet Rules fop Children. A child under two years of age should not be given meat except by the doctor’s orders. Meat for children under five years of age should be finely minced, or scraped with a knife. Cabbage, cauliflower, spinach, Brussels sprouts, and onions should be rubbed through a sieve for all children under five years of age. Prunes should be slowly cooked in a fireproof china dish, and rubbed through a sieve. Oranges should be squeezed through a strainer before being given