42 Eggs in the Italian Fashion strain the lard through a fine gravy strainer into a clean bowl, and put it in the larder. It can be used over and over again if the strain- ing process is repeated each time. Buttered Eggs. Cut a slice from a large loaf; toast it. Cut off the crust. Butter the slice of toast and cut it into four squares. Put half an ounce of butter in a frying-pan. While it is melting break two eggs into a basin, and beat them up quickly with a fork. Add a pinch of salt and a dash of pepper. Pour them into the batter, and stir well until the eggs are quite yellow and set. Put them on the squares of toast in four equal portions, and send to table at once. To Butter Eggs in the German Fashion. Cook them as directed, but before adding them to the melted butter, add a teaspoonful of either minced shalot or onion, and cook all together. Eggs in the Italian Fashion. Take three tomatoes, cut off a small piece from the top of each, scoop out half the inside, put a 1 of a teaspoonful of minced shalot or onion and parsley in each tomato. Dust with pepper and salt, and place a bit of butter about the size of a very small walnut in each. Place the tomatoes on a fireproof baking dish, and cook in the oven until very hot. Then break three eggs into a cup, one at a time, and put them gently into the tomatoes without breaking the yolk. Cook until the eggs are firmly set, but do not let them harden. Have ready three squares of buttered toast; put a tomato on each. Dish upon a very hot dish, and send to table at once. If hot things are liked, add a tiny dash of Cayenne pepper to each egg before serving. Kidneys. Take two New Zealand kidneys. These cost 9d. the half-dozen at most, and can be had for i£d. or id. each. Split them open, and take off the outer skin. Place a bit of butter about the size of a small walnut in a clean frying-pan. Directly it melts add the kidneys, and fry for five minutes ; turn frequently. Dish upon a hot dish. Add to the butter on which they were cooked half a teaspoonful of finely- minced parsley, and half a teaspoonful of minced shalots ; mix well, and, if needful, add a tiny bit more butter. Put a little of the mixture in the centre of each kidney ; pour the remainder over, and serve at once. Savoury Toast. Take 2 ozs. of lean cooked ham. Chop it finely. Place a bit of butter about the size of a small walnut in a clean frying-pan. Directly it melts add to it half a teaspoonful of minced shalot and half a tea-