CHAPTER XI Inexpensive Stews and Entrees Odds and ends of meat—American stew—Beef a la mode—Giblet stew —Apple sauce—Giblet pies—Irish stew with mutton pieces— Italia?i stew—Veal in Milanaise fashion—Blanquette of veal— Salt pork, American fashion—To fry cabbage. Odds and Ends of Meat. Pieces, fresh and good, though necessarily only either trimmings or from the coarser parts of the beef or mutton, may be had at most butchers’ shops at prices ranging from 4d. to 7d. a lb. In what is known as cheap neighbourhoods, 4d. or 5d. would be a fair price to pay. Three pounds of meat at 5d. comes to is. 3d., and as with these pieces there is no bone, they are very economical. This is how to treat them:— American Stew. Cut off all the superfluous fat from two or more pounds of beet pieces. Place an ounce and a half of clarified beef dripping in a clean stewpan ; directly it boils add the beef, two large onions peeled and thinly sliced, and two or three sliced pickled walnuts. Fry all together for ten minutes. Then add sufficient stock or water just to cover the meat. Draw the pan to one side of the fire, put the lid on, and simmer very slowly until the meat is quite tender. If the pieces are very tough, allow two hours and a half; if young and tender, from an hour to an hour and a half will be ample. When done, add salt and pepper to taste. Then dish up the beef on a very hot dish. Thicken the gravy with an ounce of flour and half an ounce of butter, mixed to a paste in a little cold water ; stir all one way until the sauce is of the consistency of cream. Add more pepper and salt, and a tablespoonful of the pickle from the walnuts, and a teaspoonful of mushroom catsup. Make hot and serve at once, with baked potatoes. Mutton pieces may also be cooked according to the above recipe, and will be found almost as good. Beef a la Mode. Take two or three pounds of beef pieces. Cut off any superfluous fat, and trim them neatly. Place two ounces of clarified dripping in a clean deep stewpan. As soon as it melts add to it three carrots scraped and thinly sliced, four or five onions peeled and cut into quarters, three turnips peeled and sliced and cut into neat squares,