Fresh Herrings Stuffed bread crumbs and grated cheese. Place a tiny bit of butter here and there, and put the dish in the oven until the cheese has quite melted. Then take out and serve at once. If the haddocks are very small, add from an ounce to two ounces of previously cooked macaroni, cut into one-inch lengths, to the flaked fish. Mix together and finish as directed. Not only haddock, but cod, hake, brill, and whiting may all be cooked in this way suc- cessfully. Fresh Herring’s Stuffed. Ask the fishmonger when you buy the herrings to split them open, clean them, and take out the backbone for you. See that the roes are left in. Butter a fireproof china dish, place the herrings in this, put a few tiny bits of butter on each, dust with pepper, and bake in a mode- rately hot oven till done. Meanwhile, take just a pound of freshly- boiled floury potatoes, add to them a wine-glassful of absolutely boiling milk, and a bit of butter about the size of a walnut ; mash the potatoes until quite white and light. Then stuff the centre of each herring with potato ; shape this neatly with a knife or fork, and sprinkle with finely-minced parsley. Place a morsel of butter on each, and replace the dish in the oven until the potato is just touched here and there with golden brown. Take out and serve at once. Herrings a la Maitre-d’Hotel. Take six fresh herrings, and get the fishmonger to split them and take out the backbone; the roes must be left in. Butter a fireproof china dish thickly ; arrange the herrings on this. Place on the centre of each a small teaspoonful of finely-minced shalots and parsley ; put a bit of butter on top of each, and dust lightly with salt, pepper, and bread crumbs, and bake in a moderately hot oven for from fifteen to eighteen minutes. If the fish are of extra large size, allow twenty minutes. Take out and serve with mashed or baked potatoes, handed separately. Mackerel are also delicious when cooked like this, but a larger amount of parsley and shalot will be required. When shalot is un- obtainable, very finely-minced onion may be used instead, if liked. Cod or Hake with Macaroni. When a small piece of cold cod or hake has been left over from the previous day’s dinner, it can be turned into a very appetising little dish as follows :— Take the fish, free it from skin and bone, and flake it into pieces of a smallish size ; mix an ounce of flour with an ounce of butter to a thin paste by means of a little cold milk or water in a saucepan. Then add to it, stirring all the time, half a pint of absolutely boiling milk; skim milk will do. Place the pan on the fire, and stir until the sauce is of the consistency of cream, and leaves the side of the saucepan. Then add pepper and salt to taste, and a tiny grate of nutmeg. Add