CHAPTER XIV 77 Puddings, Pies, Pastry, and Bread Short cnist—Dripping crust—Suet crust—Puddings—Cabinet pud- ding—Jam sauce—Rice pudding cl la Mirette—Munich pudding— Princess pudding—Sponge pudding—Nursery pudditig—Jajn crusts—Golden custard—Jam or treacle tart—Brown Betty— Banana custard—How to make bread—How to knead— The oven —Spice loaf. Puddings and pies of all kinds are apt to be very perplexing to the housewife with small means. Milk puddings and suet puddings, stock dishes so beloved of the British housewife, are not by any means the cheapest, and after a time they are apt to grow mono- tonous. I append one or two recipes more varied in character, which will afford some solution of the difficulty. The very' first thing that in this department the self-trained house- wife should set about mastering is how to make a simple crust. Short Crust. Here is the recipe for the cheapest good crust :— Take I lb. of flour. Add to it a good pinch of salt, and 3 ozs. of either butter or clarified beef-dripping, or lard. Work the butter into the flour until it crumbles well. Then add to it 2 ozs. of sifted sugar, and half a pint of absolutely boiling skim milk, or milk and water. Water alone may be used, but the crust will not be so nice. The milk must be added by degrees, and the paste kneaded and worked until it becomes quite smooth. Then roll out thinly. Cover the pie, and bake in a moderately hot oven until of a light golden hue. Serve. This is an excellent crust for fruit pies and jam tarts. Dripping’ Crust. Take 1 lb. of flour. Add to it a good pinch of salt, and by degrees half a pint of cold water. Mix the flour into a smooth paste with the water. It is best to use a knife for the mixing process. Flour the pastry board, and roll out the crust thinly. Place on it 2 ozs. of clarified beef-dripping broken up into tiny pieces. Then double it over, pinch the edges together, and roll out the paste again thinly. Place another 2 ozs. of clarified beef-dripping broken up in small pieces upon the crust. Double it over, pinch the edges, and roll out a second time. Then place 2 more ozs. of clarified dripping on the crust, double, pinch the edges, and roll out twice. The paste will now be ready for use. This is a nice cheap crust for meat pies, &c.