128 To Wash China cooking spoons have been used, place these in a jug full of very hot water. Leave them to soak. Then scrub them and rinse in cold water. Dry on the hot rack. When all the washing-up has been disposed of, well wash out the tubs and bowls which have been used with hot water, and scour well. Then rinse out with cold water, and turn upside down ; wipe the enamel bowls dry. If possible, use a wooden bowl for washing up glasses. Next rinse the sink well out with hot water, and if very dirty scour with a little Brooke’s soap. Rinse again, and dry thoroughly. If the sink is of stone, scrub it well with a stiff scrubbing brush and plenty of sand. Then rinse well with hot water. If this plan be followed, the sink will never get really dirty or foul. If the oven has been used, wipe it out well with a hot damp cloth. Scrub the kitchen table with plenty of soap and hot water. Damp the ashes in the kitchen hearth before taking them up, for this saves dust. Place them in the cinder sifter. Sweep up the hearth, then sweep up the kitchen, and go carefully into the corners. If the kitchen is covered with linoleum, this should be washed ; use hot water only. If very dirty it may be scrubbed with a brush. Then wash and whiten the hearth ; brush up the stove ; wipe down the dresser, and dust all the shelves with a damp duster. Don’t allow things to be kept on the shelves ; find a place for odds andj ends in the cupboards, or put up a 2s. 6d. hanging cupboard for these: it saves time and trouble when dusting. Dust the mantelpiece. If there is to be a late supper or dinner, peel the potatoes and put the vegetables ready for this. Go upstairs and dress. Come down, and go for the afternoon outing, if there are children to be taken for a walk, and no nursemaid. Before going arrange the tea tray, and put the kettle ready for tea. If you cannot go out, now is the time to help with the mending, or to prepare as far as possible the late dinner or supper for the dining- room. Make the tea and take it in. Have your own tea, and wash up the tea things. Then it will be time to cook the supper or dinner, and to lay the table. Before doing this get all the things needed ready together on a tray, as this saves running backwards and forwards.