CHAPTER VI 39 The Art of Cooking Do not anticipate difficulties—How to prepare breakfast—To poach eggs—Bloaters — Kippers — Dried haddock — Fried sausages— Sausage rissoles—Savoury eggs—Buttered eggs—Eggs i?i Italian fashion—Kidneys — Savoury toast—Savoury fish toast—Baked sprats—Sardines au gratin—Savoury porridge—To make tea— To make coffee—To make cocoa. I have shown you elsewhere how it is possible to turn a raw ignorant girl into a cleanly servant merely by dint of careful and personal supervision. Now I will show you how to teach her to cook. “ But I don’t know how to cook myself,” some reader may urge, “ and I cannot afford to take a course of lessons at a school of cookery ; how then can I possibly teach any one ? ” Do not Anticipate Difficulties. For answer to such let me say that the very best “school of cookery” a housewife can possibly attend is her own kitchen, and the very best instruction she can have (short of serving an actual apprenticeship under a good cook) is the result of personal experi- ment. Given that all-important item a true palate, patience, a practical cookery book, and practice are all that is necessary to enable one to cook, and to cook well. If a reliable recipe is carefully followed out, and all the instructions minutely attended to, there need be no mis- takes, for mistakes merely mean inattention and lack of care in most cases. Thus, if you try to make sauce in a thin enamelled stewpan over a very fierce fire, though you carry out your recipe exactly, your sauce is almost certain to bum. How to Prepare Breakfast. For the sake of argument I will suppose that both mistress and maid are ignorant of the very A.B.C. of Cookery. It is the first morning in the new house, and breakfast has to be prepared. This is how to set about it:— When the fire has quite burnt up put on the kettle. While this is getting ready to boil, cut a slice from a tin loaf, put this on the toasting-fork, and hold it close to the fire for a couple of minutes until it is of a delicate golden brown colour; then turn it and repeat the