CHAPTER II 93 The Bedrooms The best bedroom—The spare bedroom—The set vants' room. Flats, whether in London, in the suburbs, or in the provinces, should have bedrooms as bright and pretty as is possible. And for this purpose there is nothing equal to white enamelled furniture. The Best Bedroom. For this, with its ivory paint and sea-green walls, I suggest the suite known as the “ Louise,” which costs but eight guineas, and is marvellous value for the money. It consists of a wardrobe with plate-glass door and millinery drawer ; a chest of drawers and dress- ing-table combined, with plate-glass mirror and jewel drawers ; and a marble-topped washstand, with tiled back. Select pale pink tiles if the walls are green, or, with yellow walls, deep orange or sea-green tiles. There are also included towel-rail and toilet cupboard, and two cane- seated chairs. A single bedstead may be had to match, in white enamelled wood, 3 ft wide by 6 ft. 6 in. long, for £2, 19s. 6d., or twin bedsteads for £$, 18s. If the idea of a wooden bedstead is disliked, a double black and brass bedstead, 4 ft. 6 in. by 6 ft. 6 in., may be had complete, with woven steel mattress, wool mattress, bolster and feather pillows, for £2, 15s. This could be enamelled white, to match the suite, for a very small extra charge. Cupboard space in a flat is always more or less precious and scarce, and therefore, if possible, room should be found at the foot of the bed for a box ottoman. One of these, with a spring seat and pillow head, covered in a dainty cream cretonne, with a chintz pattern of pink roses and leaves, may be had for £it is., and will be found invalu- able for storing dresses, or extra linen or blankets, &c., &c. Fender and fireirons cost 3s. 9d. ; a drum timepiece for the mantel-shelf, 2s. I id. and a pair of brass candlesticks, 2s. 6d. ; a little occasional table, always a useful thing in a bedroom, 2s. nd. ; a thoroughly artistic set of toilet ware, in ivory and gold, double set, 10s., and ivory toilet pail to match, 3s. nd. ; and a soiled linen basket, 3s. When supplied with the necessary curtains, bed-linen, &c., the best bed- room may now be said to be complete. For the curtains, I advise art linen or cotton, in a dull shade of rose, or orange yellow, according to whether the paper chosen is sea