Fish Sauce The Sauce is made as follows. Mix i oz. of flour and i oz. of butter to a paste in a saucepan with a little skim milk. Have ready rather less than half a pint of absolutely boiling skim milk. Add this by degrees to the paste, stirring all the time. Place the saucepan on the fire, and continue to stir until the sauce is of the consistency of cream and leaves the sides of the saucepan ; then add pepper and salt and lemon juice. Add also a little essence of anchovy, or a little Harvey sauce, whichever is best liked. Make very hot. Pour around the pudding as directed, and send to table at once. If milk or skim milk cannot be spared for the sauce, the water in which the fish was cooked may be used instead. It should be first strained through a hair sieve into a clean saucepan and then made hot. If rice is not at hand, half a pound of freshly-boiled mashed potatoes may be used instead, but they should be allowed to cool before they are added to the fish. When there is only a very small quantity of fish, say 4 ozs., the amount may be made up by using cooked macaroni, cut into one or two inch lengths. In this case add a dessert-spoonful of essence of anchovy to the other ingredients, as without it the pudding will lack its decided fish flavour. Almost any kind of white fish may be used for this pudding; but when no white or fresh fish is obtainable, a very nice pudding can be made from dried haddock. Soak the haddock in tepid water for at least an hour, then cook it as directed upon page 40. Free it from skin and bone, and flake it into pieces of suitable size ; then finish the pudding in all other respects as I have directed in the recipe. The addition of two hard- boiled eggs finely chopped will be found a very great improvement. A Delicious Fish Pie. Free from 8 to 10 ozs. of any sort of cold boiled white fish from skin and bone, and flake it into pieces of a suitable size. Make half a pint of white sauce, as before directed, for fish pudding. Take a pound of freshly-boiled potatoes and mash them with a fork, with a bit of butter about the size of a large walnut, and a wine-glassful of absolutely boiling milk ; skim milk will do. Place a little of the sauce at the bottom of a pie dish, then put in a layer of the mashed potatoes. Arrange a layer of fish on this, and pour over a little of the sauce. Repeat the layers until the dish is quite full. The last layer should be potato. Smooth this over with the back of a spoon, sprinkle thickly with bread crumbs, and add just a very little grated cheese. Put a few morsels of butter here and there, and make hot in the oven. The pie should be golden brown here and there when finished. Take out, and serve at once. Fish and Macaroni Pie. This is very economical and easily made. Throw half a pound of macaroni into a saucepan half full of absolutely boiling salted water. Cook until quite soft, by which time 53