36 Dried Fish Of the cheaper kinds of fish which it will be possible from time to time, say once a week, to afford, are fresh herrings, haddock, whiting, hake, and occasionally, when they are in season, and consequently cheap, cod, mackerel, plaice, flounders, and perhaps halibut and chicken turbot. Fiesh herrings are often to be had seven or eight, and sometimes nine, for 6d.; and, if served according to the recipe before given, will form a savoury luncheon, dinner, or supper. Fresh haddock of a fair size maybe had when plentiful from 2d. each, 3d. being about a fair price to pay for those of average size, and three of these are an ample meal for half-a-dozen persons. Whiting, when cheap, can sometimes be had for as little as i|d. or 2d. each, and half-a-dozen, one each, will form a dish. I have known hake as cheap as 4d. a lb., and 2\ lbs. will make a substantial meal for half-a-dozen people, while any that remains can be utilised for fish cakes for the next day’s breakfast. Fish for Children. Slip soles, the most suitable fish of any for quite little ones, are as a rule too dear in London. Whiting, and after them haddock, are the best substitutes, but brown and oily fish, such as fresh herrings and mackerel, should not be given to quite small children. Dried Fish. As it is improbable that the whole of the sum set aside for the grocer’s bill be required every week, the surplus, or part of it, can be devoted to the purchase of dried fish as a relish for breakfast. The price of this varies according to neighbourhood. In the country and some suburbs it is dear. In London and in big seaside towns it is as a rule exceedingly cheap. Excellent kippers may be had for as little as i^d. and 2d. a pair ; bloaters, two for i^d., and three for 2d. and upwards ; while dried haddocks are to be had from i^d. and 2d. each. Dried fish of this sort should not be given to children. When they are of an age to require a relish for breakfast, a little fat bacon, or a lightly boiled egg, is far better for them than salt food. To children over seven years of age good bloaters are of value as a food, as they contain oil, but the highly salted variety should never be bought. The Store Cupboard. Having now apportioned the division of the catering allowance, the next thing to be thought of is the Store Cupboard. If a guinea can by any means be spared, it should be devoted to starting a store cupboard ; for once started, the keeping up will be comparatively easy, as a little can be bought each week to replenish any special article which may be running low. All will not run low together, and if a store cupboard is once started, a much better style of catering will be possible. The following list has been compiled with the aid of the Home and Colonial Stores price-list, but plenty of cheap grocers may be found who keep the same articles at the same prices.