Cabinet Pudding Suet Crust. Take I lb. of flour. Add to it a good pinch of salt and 4 ozs. of finely-minced beef suet. Rub the suet well into the flour, then add by degrees, and kneading the crust all the time, half a pint of cold water. Continue to knead until it becomes a smooth paste, then roll out and use. This is the proper crust for apple puddings, beef-steak puddings, and jam roly-poly. For plain suet pudding use 6 ozs. of suet instead of four. Puff paste is expensive, and therefore I do not give the recipe. It can, however, be found in my book “ Easy French Sweets for English Cooks.” Pudding’s. Steamed puddings will be found nicer and more economical than baked or boiled ones for the late dinner or supper ; whilst for the children, apple or fruit puddings, jam roly-poly, treacle pudding, or currant pudding will be better and more wholesome. All these are made with a crust as just described, and the addition of either jam, treacle, fruit, currants, or sultanas. Cabinet Pudding1. Take sufficient stale bread crumbs, or bits of stale bread cut into small squares, to fill three parts of an ordinary pudding basin of medium size. Add to these 2 ozs. of sugar and half a pint of warm milk ; skim milk will do. Leave in soak for half-an-hour, then whisk up with a fork until quite light. Add 1 oz. of chopped sultanas and a few drops of any essence. Finally add a well-beaten egg, and mix very thoroughly. Tie down with a buttered paper. Steam for one hour ; turn out carefully. Pour a little jam sauce over and around, and serve. Jam Sauce. Place two heaped tablespoonfuls of jam in a clean stewpan. Add to it three tablespoonfuls of water. Make hot. Rub through a gravy strainer on to the pudding. Note.—This sauce can be used for a variety of different puddings. Rice Pudding* a la Mirette. Wash a teacupful of rice well. Place it in a saucepan. Add just enough water to cover it, and a pinch of salt. Simmer slowly until thoroughly cooked, by which time all the water should be absorbed. Place it in a saucepan, add to it a few drops of essence of vanilla, sifted sugar to taste, $nd the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, then by degrees a pint of absolutely boiling skim milk. Mix thoroughly, and finally add the whites of the eggs whisked to a firm froth, with a pinch of salt. Mix again, fill a greased mould with the mixture, tie down tightly, and steam for an hour. Turn out carefully, and serve with jam sauce poured over and around it.