55 Hake au Gratin and from eight to ten minutes for larger and thicker ones, such as big mackerel, See. " Neither boiling, frying, nor grilling, nice as they undoubtedly may be, can be called the most economical or the most tasty way of cooking fish. I therefore append a choice of recipes well within the means of the housewife who has to cater upon 30s. weekly. Hake au Gratin. Hake when cheap is often to be had for 3d. and 4d. a lb. Take a pound or a pound and a half of hake or haddock. Place it in a clean deep stewpan. Add just enough skim milk to cover it, an onion notched to allow the juice to escape, and a sprig of parsley. Simmer slowly until the fish is cooked and quite white. Place it on a hot fireproof china dish, and reserve it on the plate-rack. Strain the milk in which it was cooked through a gravy strainer into a clean saucepan ; thicken it with an ounce of flour and half an ounce of butter mixed to a paste with a little of the milk in which the fish was cooked. Stir over a slow fire until the sauce is of the consistency of cream, and leaves the sides of the pan ; then add pepper and salt to taste, and strain through a heated gravy strainer on to the fish. Sprinkle the top thickly with bread crumbs ; place a few morsels of butter here and there, and put the dish in a hot oven until the sauce has set, and is just golden brown, then take out and serve at once. To make the dish go further, it may be garnished with savoury croutons, and in any case a dish of baked potatoes should be handed with it. Whiting or cod, or indeed any kind of white fish, will be found equally good when cooked after this recipe. Haddocks with Cheese Sauce. Take two good-sized haddocks and simmer them till tender in salted water. Then drain them carefully, free them from skin and bone, and flake them with a fork into pieces of a suitable size. Mean- while, place rather more than half a pint of skim milk in a clean saucepan, add to it a small onion cut in two, a bit of parsley, and a tiny bit of mace. Cover the pan ; draw it to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer slowly until they taste strongly of the flavouring, but take care that the milk does not boil at all. Now strain it through a fine strainer into a clean stewpan. Thicken it with an ounce of flour and half an ounce of butter, mixed to a paste by means of a little of the milk, and stir over the fire until the sauce leaves the sides of the stewpan. Then add to it an ounce of finely-grated cheese of any sort. Stir until the cheese has quite melted, by which time the sauce should be a deep yellow. Then add pepper and salt to taste, and the flaked haddock ; mix the fish very lightly, yet thoroughly, with the sauce, and take care not to break or mash it in any way. Make it all very hot. Empty it into a hot fireproof china dish ; sprinkle the top thickly with