25 How Difficulties may be Met Twenty-two pounds for wages is a large slice out of so small an income, but it is impossible to dispense with the nurse housemaid if the children are to have necessary air and exercise, as both the mother and the maid of all work have too many imperative duties of their own to spare the time for this in addition to their daily round of housekeeping, home dressmaking, general house work, and all sorts of money-saving occupations. Other means of saving money, so that her wages and keep may not be so heavily felt, will present themselves, and should be taken advantage of; but any saving effected should never be at the expense of good wholesome food and plenty of fresh air, which are essential to health. Table VI. Husband, wife, one child. Income £200. Obliged to keep up appear- ances, and to dress more expensively so far as the wife is con- cerned, and even to entertain occasionally. This it is difficult to accomplish, as a larger sum must be allowed for wine. I assume that the entertaining must be done for strictly business purposes, and not to gratify social ambition. Rent of flat ,£4° 0 O Maid of all work 12 0 O Washing 12 0 0 Food and cleaning materials 78 0 0 Wine, beer, and spirits Wife’s dress .... 5 0 0 12 0 0 Husband’s dress 12 0 0 Coal and electric light or gas . 10 0 0 Stationery and sundries 4 0 0 Insurance 5 10 0 0 Pocket-money for both, chemist, amusements doctor, and O 0 Total • • • £200 0 0 How Difficulties may be Met. It will be seen at a glance that people who are forced to live above their means, if they wish to pay their way, have an uphill fight all the time ; but as so many are in this unsought and difficult position, I have given the two foregoing tables as an attempt to solve the problem of making both ends meet. A holiday I have not allowed for; indeed it is impossible to do so, and I have therefore assumed that any holidays are spent with friends. It is often possible, however, to let a flat even in the month of August, if a very low rent is asked, and with the proceeds a little holiday becomes possible. People, too, are sometimes glad to ex- change a country house for a town flat for August or September, when the exhibitions and theatres are still open, and the sales so dear to the heart of the country cousin are in full swing.