138 The Nursery-maid’s Day his bottles, she must never be allowed to test the food by drawing it through the teat. This is a disgusting habit, and often leads to the child catching cold, &c., from the nurse. When the bottle has been filled, a little of the food may be poured into a spoon and tested. It is difficult to lay down any rules with regard to the baby's food. While one child will thrive upon Mellin’s, frame food suits another, and so on. On this point, therefore, it will be better to be guided by the medical man. Speaking from practical experience, I should emphatically give the palm to Allen & Hanbury’s bottles, which are undoubtedly the best, as they are the safest and most cleanly. The Nursery-maid’s Day. The day should be arranged as follows :—Up at 6.30. Light nursery fire if required. Sweep and dust nursery. Take up bath water. Bathe children and baby under mother’s direction. Strip nursery beds. Lay nursery breakfast. Have own breakfast with children, and give them theirs. If children have breakfast with the mother and father, the nurse- maid would take her breakfast with the maid. After breakfast make nursery beds. Sweep and dust night nursery. Empty slops, &c. Remove and wash up nursery breakfast things. Children should be with their mother while this is being done, unless night and day nursery communicate, when, if the doors are left open, the nursery-maid has them under her own eye. Dress self and children for walk. Take out children. Bring them in, and put them to sleep if they are of any age still to require morning sleep. While children are asleep wash small things, such as socks, gloves, gaiters, &c., and do any ironing needful. Take children down to dinner, or, if they have dinner in the nursery, lay dinner table ; give children their dinner, and have own dinner. Afterwards clear away nursery dinner things. Dress self and children and take them out for afternoon walk. Lay nursery tea. Give children their tea. Have own tea same time. Prepare baths ; bathe baby under mother’s direction ; put baby and other children to bed. Tidy the day nursery. Have own supper. Do mending. Clean all children’s boots for next day, and brush their clothes. Put baby’s clothes to air. I have here assumed that the mother takes practically the whole charge of the baby with regard to feeding, &c., and that he sleeps in her room—the little nurse of course taking him out in his little carriage for his daily airings. This list of work can be modified to suit the requirements of any special household. The following rules should be impressed upon the nursemaid when engaging her, and she should be told that if she violates them dis- missal will result.