52 Puree of Green Peas Puree of Artichokes. This is made in exactly the same way, but in order to ensure a good colour each artichoke as it is peeled should be put into a basin of cold water, to which has been added a tablespoonful of vinegar. Both the sliced potatoes and the sliced artichokes must be thoroughly dried before they are added to the melted fat, or they will not fry properly. Puree of Turnips or Parsnips is made in exactly the same way. Puree of Green Peas. Take the sound pods from half a peck of green peas. They should measure at least a full quart. Wash them very thoroughly. Place an oz. of butter, or clarified dripping, in a clean stewpan. As soon as it melts add to it a finely-minced small onion, a good-sized sprig of parsley, and a sprig of green mint ; fry for a couple of minutes, and then add the pods and fry, turning all the time for five minutes. Add a quart of either stock or skim milk, or milk and water. Cover the pan tightly; draw it to one side of the fire, and simmer slowly until the pods are thoroughly cooked and soft. It is not possible to give the exact time for this, as the pods may be old. When done rub them through a fine wire sieve into a clean sauce- pan placed on the stove. Mix an oz. of flour with half an oz. of butter to a smooth paste with a little cold milk; add to it gradually, and stir- ring all the while, not quite half a pint of skim milk. Place the sauce- pan on the fire, and continue to stir until the mixture thickens. Then add it to the puree, stirring all the time. Put the pan on the fire, and continue to stir for ten minutes. Add pepper and salt to taste; strain through a heated gravy strainer into a hot soup tureen, and send to table with fried crusts, handed separately. Puree of Carrots. Take six very large carrots, scrape them, slice them very thinly. Place an oz. of dripping or butter in a clean stewpan; as soon as it melts add the carrots, a large onion peeled and thinly sliced, and a bouquet garni. Fry for six or seven minutes, then add to them a quart of the stock described on page 48. Put the lid on and simmer slowly until the carrots are quite soft and tender. Then rub through a fine sieve into a clean saucepan. Mix an oz. of flour and half an oz. of butter to a paste with half a wine-glassful of cold milk. Add to it very gradually not quite half a pint of boiling milk (skim milk will do). Stir over the fire until the mixture thickens. Then add it to the puree by degrees, stirring all the time. Add salt and pepper to taste, and a | of a teaspoonful of sifted sugar. Make very hot ; strain through a heated gravy strainer into a hot soup tureen, and serve with fried crusts, handed separately. When a thick and substantial soup is required in a hurry, try the following :—