121 A Week’s Routine Nowadays, and with the modern servant, it is want of thoroughness which is the chief fault. They know a little of everything from School Board French to School Board millinery, but they always leave the corners ! Unless, then, you are fortunate enough to obtain a well-trained servant—and at the low rate of wages, which is all that can be afforded out of limited means, this is practically impossible—it will be found by far the best plan to engage a thoroughly untrained girl, and to train her carefully yourself, rather than to take a half-trained one, who will probably have acquired bad habits. Perhaps some reader who has never had any domestic training herself, and who has rushed into matrimony under the pleasing delusion that it will all come to her by-and-by, may here ask: “ But how can I train servants ? I know nothing of domestic work. I know when a room is clean, and of course I can see for myself when it is dirty ; but I don’t know how to set about getting it clean again: how then can I be expected to teach any one else ? I must have a servant who has been out before, and has some knowledge of her duties.” Let any such take heart of grace. If the following directions are carefully followed out, any one, however young and inexperienced in household arts, should be able to have a well-kept house. A Week’s Routine. In an eight-roomed house the following would be the best way to keep it clean and arrange the work for the servant. The following general instructions might be written out for her guidance :— Monday morning : light the kitchen fire, sweep down the stairs, then the hall or passage and dining-room, and if the drawing-room is used as a regular thing, the drawing-room also. Before sweeping move the small furniture into the middle of the room, and cover it with a dust-sheet. Then sweep the corners. Move furniture back and sweep the rest of the room. A still better plan is to move all the small furniture into the hall before sweeping. The big furniture need not be moved except once a week, when the room is thoroughly turned out. Leave the dust to settle, and meanwhile wash the doorstep and do the brasses. Hearthstone must be used for the doorstep; it is better than whitening, which comes off and gets carried into the house. Put the kettle on for breakfast. Then beginning at the top, dust the stairs carefully with a clean duster. Go into each corner with the duster placed over the point of a finger. Dust each banister and the rail carefully ; this is soon done if the stairs are well swept each day and carefully dusted. Dust the hall and passages and pictures. Use a little dusting brush for the banisters, and a duster for the stairs, and a feather brush for the pictures, and a duster for the glasses. Move all the things off the hall table, the hat stand, and the umbrella stand before you dust them. Pass the duster through all holes, open carving or decoration in the furniture. If it is of Belgian