114 The Night Nursery bottles, &c. A hanging bamboo cupboard, price 2S. 9d., will be a con- venience. The less furniture there is in a nursery the better, so that the children may romp in safety. A fire-guard must not be forgotten. It will cost 8s. 6d., or if with a safety towel rail, which is far better, £i. The Nig-ht Nursery. There should be a cot for each child. The very best and cheapest cots are those in stained green wood, with wire mattresses. They cost 19s. 6d. each without bedding, which will vary in price from 8s. 6d. upwards according to size. There must also be a bed for the nursemaid, should one be kept, and a “ Sensible Suite,” which con- sists of a big wardrobe, a chest of drawers, washstand, towel rail, dressing-table, andt oilet glass, and two chairs ; cost complete, £5, 5s. The washstand has not a marble top, hence my reason for recom- mending it. A marble-topped washstand should never be in a room for little children ; it is too dangerous. If the night nursery has one or two good cupboards, the suite could be dispensed with, and the following articles selected :—Large chest of drawers and toilet glass, washstand (double if possible), towel rail, one chair, and one low chair for dressing and bathing baby. The total cost of these in white enamel of good quality will be £^. A hanging medicine cupboard will cost 2s. 1 id. A table for the bedside to hold food warmer, milk bottles, basin, &c., for the baby, 4s. nd.; a fire-guard, 8s. 6d. No other furniture is necessary. Nig-ht and Day Nursery Combined. This is always a difficult room to furnish successfully. The floor should be covered with cork carpet, with one of the folding standard beds, consisting of a wardrobe, boot cupboard, millinery drawer, set of shelves, washstand, and dressing-table, and bed combined. During the day this bed is to all intents and purposes a wardrobe with a plate- glass door. It turns on castors, and the bed with a wire-wove mattress, See., is let down ready made. These beds cost £7, 7s. in the smallest size, and can be had on the hire system paid for at the rate of 5s. a week. A strong deal table with a drawer for knives and forks, table-cloths, &c., will cost 12s. 6d.; a rocking-chair, 4s. 9d.; a high chair for each child, 2s. 9d. ; a good cupboard for toys, in bamboo, ,£1, 5s., and if it is of fair size, the upper shelves should be utilised for the children’s clothes. If the room is of exceptionally large size, a box ottoman, in which all the garments not in season and use could be stored, will be found a great convenience. One of excellent quality can be bought for £1, is. Provide also a medicine cupboard, 2s. nd., with a lock and key, and thermometer to regulate the temperature, is. 6d. ; a firmly fixed fire-guard with towel rail attached, £1, is. ; a crawling rug for the baby, 3s. ; a clock, 2s. 1 id. ; a few bright prints upon the walls, 5s.;