Method Avoids Mistakes vegetables, and a pudding and savoury, are more to his liking, though, alas ! too often he does not get these until the best and rosiest part of love’s young dream has been dispelled by the nightmare of badly- cooked chops, semi-raw potatoes, burnt bacon, and weak coffee. The average girl when she marries is as a rule far too content to “ learn by her mistakes,” indeed she thinks it right and natural that she should do so, but it would be far better, both for herself and for her husband, if she would resolve from the first to make no mistakes, or at any rate as few as possible. Method avoids Mistakes. Mistakes of any sort are not necessary in the education of a house- wife, and though “experience teaches” is a good motto, “ Method” is a better one, and the housewife, no matter how young and inexperi- enced she may be, who makes Method her watchword is sure of ultimate success, and even from the first secures far more encourage- ment and comfort. I shall presently hope to show her how success may be hers from the outset if she so chooses. Now the chief mistake made by the average housewife when she first starts is this. She forgets that expenses are apt to increase, and that the income does not always increase in proportion. The result of this is that instead of added comforts as time goes on, and little mouths come to be filled, there is very frequently an appreciable decrease of available resources and creature comforts. And the average husband can hardly be expected to take these things without grumbling ; such a paragon would be “ a creature much too bright and much too good, for any mortal’s daily food.” A Nest-Egg. To meet this, when the housekeeping allowance comes up for discussion, make arrangements for having a little more than you will require, a little margin beyond what you mean to spend. You will thus be enabled to put by a small nest-egg for the inevitable rainy day, and when the little ones come you will be able to spend your full allowance without any loss of comfort to the head of the household, or to any one concerned. Thus, if the allowance you start with is 30s. a week, make up your mind that at the outside you will spend only a guinea or 25s. The 5s. saved will soon mount up, and when the extra mouths come there will be plenty to fill them with. The difficulty of catering upon small means is very considerably increased if the number to be catered for is large, for children, to be really well and healthy, need the best of food and plenty of it. It need not, indeed it should not be rich in character, the plainer the food the better where children are concerned, but it should be the best procurable, as varied as possible, thoroughly well cooked, and rich in bone-forming constituents. Better by far give a child a dish of porridge than a plate of watery beef-tea ; a well-poached egg, than a piece of tough and inferior meat. Provide strong beef-tea and good English meat in reason, if your means permit; but if not, don’t injure your children with worthless substitutes.