43 Savoury Fish Toast spoonful of parsley; cook for half a minute. Then add the ham, and a good dash of pepper. Stir all well together for three or four minutes, or until the mixture is thoroughly hot. Have ready four squares of buttered toast. Pile the mixture up neatly on these, and send to table. Tongue, lean beef, mutton, game, or poultry of any kind may be used in this manner, and will be found equally nice. Savoury Fish Toast. Have ready four squares of thickly-buttered toast. Take 2 ozs. of any sort of white fish, freed from skin and bone, and chop it roughly. Place a bit of butter about the size of a walnut in a clean frying-pan. Directly it melts add to it half a teaspoonful of finely-minced parsley. Add also the fish, and half a teaspoonful each of Harvey and Wor- cester sauce ; mix well and make very hot. Pepper and salt can be added to taste. Pile upon the squares of toast, and send to table. If a scrap of cold dried previously cooked haddock should remain on hand treat it like this : Free it from the bone and chop it neatly. Place a bit of butter about the size of a small walnut in a clean frying- pan ; as soon as it melts add the haddock, together with a teaspoonful each of essence of anchovy and Worcester sauce. Mix and make very hot. Pile up on the toast, and send to table at once. Not only haddock, but any scraps of cold kipper, bloaters, smoked roe of any kind, or even red herrings may be treated in this way. Baked Sprats. These make just as good a breakfast as they do a supper dish. Wash the sprats well. Dry them carefully. Butter a fireproof baking dish rather thickly, and arrange the sprats in this. Dust them with pepper and salt, and sprinkle with bread crumbs ; place a few bits of butter here and there, and bake in a moderately hot oven for from seven to ten minutes. Take out and serve. As sprats are, when in season, to be had from i^d. to 2d. a lb., this makes a cheap savoury. Sardines au Gratin. These are very good, and this is a nice way of using up the re- mains of a tin of sardines which may have already appeared. Put a tiny bit of butter in a fireproof china dish. Drain the sardines free from oil, if possible on blotting-paper. Arrange them neatly in the dish ; sprinkle over them a quarter of a teaspoonful of finely-minced shalots, half a teaspoonful of finely-minced parsley, a dessert-spoonful of bread crumbs, and, if possible, half a teaspoonful of finely-minced capers. Add just a squeeze of lemon juice to the whole, and place a few tiny bits of butter here and there. Make hot in the oven for six or seven minutes, and then serve at once. If liked, the butter can be omitted, and the oil from the sardines used in its stead, half to grease the bottom of the dish, and the re- mainder poured as evenly as possible over the crumbs. If hot things are liked, a little Cayenne pepper may be used.