How to Hash Meat from a stew, or any cold savoury sauce (with the exception of sauces made with oil, &c., for which no further use can be found), may also be added to improve the soup, but never to the stock. How to Hash Meat. Any cold meat should always be turned into a savoury hash, or into a stew or mince. In fact a portion of cold meat wholly insuffi- cient for three or four people may be made to do duty for six or seven if treated as follows :— Cut off every particle of meat and fat. Reserve it on a plate, and place an oz. or more of clarified beef-dripping in a clean enamelled iron stewpan ; as soon as it melts add to it a plentiful supply of sliced onion, carrot, and turnip or parsnip. Fry till of a good golden brown. Then add just enough stock or water to cover the vegetables. Draw the pan to the side of the fire. Cover, and simmer very slowly until the vegetables are thoroughly cooked. Then thicken with a little flour and butter kneaded together, and stir over the fire until very thick and hot, add pepper and salt to taste, and from 2 to 4 ozs. of freshly-boiled macaroni cut into two-inch lengths. Finally add the meat. Make hot and serve with baked potatoes, and you have a thoroughly good substantial and appetising dinner or supper which should satisfy the most fastidious. Any kind of cold meat may be treated in this manner with excel- lent result. In the case of cold pork a little sage may be added with advantage, and the quantity of onions may be doubled, while the parsnips can be left out. How to Buy Meat. If the larder is a good one, or there is a convenient cool dry corner for a good-sized hanging safe, it will be by far the best plan to buy all joints of a large size, if a big family has to be catered for. This is most economical in the long run, as it enables one to buy meat at a much cheaper rate. Thus, a forequarter of New Zealand mutton weighing 14 or 16 lbs. can always be had for 6d. a lb. at even the best shops, and in a cheap neighbourhood could be had for 4^d. or 5d. at the outside. Allowing the latter as the average, about six shillings will provide a joint that will last for some days. Of course, if the family chance to be small meat eaters, matters for the housewife and manager are eased considerably. On the other hand, when a decided liking for meat is shown, it may be taken as a sign that that particular constitution requires nourishment which only meat can give, a view taken by many medical men. Allowance of Meat. The exact allowance of meat is generally set down as f of a lb. a day, inclusive of bone, which in a family of six people would mean about thirty pounds a week when three of the members are children. I should say that, roughly speaking, from 25 to 26 lbs. per week would be ample. 3°