CHAPTER VII 110 The Landing, Hall, and Offices Landing windows—The hall or passage—Kitchen—Scullery—Linen- chest and linen—Lamps, stoves, and sundries. Landing- Windows. At least from ios. to £i will be required for material for curtains for these. If the house is draughty, plushette will be best. If a rose red or a sunset yellow paper has been selected for the hall, passages, and staircase, a plushette of deep gobelin blue will be best. If the bright moss green paper is selected, the same colour will do. Sage green or bronze are also pretty, when seen against moss green walls. Plushette runs from is. 6d. to is. nd. a yard, is fifty inches wide, and does not require lining, nor does it hold the dirt in the same way as serge, which is never desirable. Next to plushette, art cotton and linen are the best, as these can be easily laundried at home when required. Plushette curtains only need frequent shaking to keep them quite free from dust. The Hall or Passag-e. If very large and square, have a comfortable table couch and a couple of chairs for this, such as “The Walmer,” price £3, ios.; or a thoroughly comfortable rattan lounge may be had for 3s-> and when nicely fitted with cushions it looks very well. Two large-sized basket-work arm-chairs comfortably padded will cost 8s. 9d. each. An oak umbrella and stick stand is 15s. 9d., and an oak table to match, 15s. 9d. An oak seat, also to match, may be had for 17s. 6d. If the hall is long and narrow, and more of a passage, the couch and arm-chair should give place to two rush-seated high-backed oak chairs, price ios. 6d. each. Thus the total for the hall will be about £6, 6s. If an ordinary sofa-lounge is required, the cheapest and best is the “ inexpensive,” spring-stuffed, and covered in blue and green tapestry, which costs £2. Arm-chairs to match it are about £1 each. A card-tray and a brass or copper bowl for flowers should be pro- vided for the hall table, and from ios. to £1 should be allowed for pictures. If there is a bath-room, the estimate given for the flat will serve for this, as bath-rooms differ but little in town and country.