79 Munich Pudding Munich Pudding’. Take some slices of stale bread, toast them to a crisp brown, spread them first with butter and then with golden syrup. Place a layer of golden syrup at the bottom of a pie dish, sprinkle it with chopped currants and a little chopped candied peel. Add a little allspice, then put a layer of the toasted bread, and then more currants, candied peel, and spice. Repeat until the dish is full. Make a custard with the well-beaten yolk of an egg, a tablespoonful of sugar, and half a pint of skim milk. Pour over the whole, and leave for fifteen minutes. Meanwhile, whip the white of the egg to a stiff froth, with a few drops of lemon ; add to it a little sifted sugar, and pile high on the top of the pudding. Bake to a golden brown, and serve. If in a hurry, use the whole egg for the custard. Bake the pudding till browned, dust sifted sugar over, and serve. Princess Pudding-. Take 4 ozs. of fine bread crumbs. Add to them five tablespoon- fuls of sieved jam ; whisk well together. Then pour over the whole a custard made with one well-beaten egg and half a pint of warm skim milk, and mix well. Finally, add the white of an egg whisked to a firm froth ; use to fill a souffld mould, bake for twenty-five minutes, and serve directly it is taken from the oven, before it can fall. Spong-e Pudding*. Take a teacupful of self-raising flour, add to it a pinch of salt, half a teaspoonful of sifted sugar, and a tablespoonful of butter. Mix thoroughly. Then add a well-beaten egg, half a teacupful of milk, and a little strained lemon juice. Mix well together, and beat for at least ten minutes. Then fill a well-greased mould with the mixture, tie down tightly, and steam for forty-five minutes. Turn out care- fully, and serve with jam sauce. Nursery Pudding-. Take a pound of stewed apples, rub them through a wire sieve, place them in the bottom of a pie dish. Take two dessert-spoonfuls of com flour in a saucepan. Add to it a pinch of salt and a spoonful of sugar. Mix it to a smooth paste with a little cold milk or water, then add to it by degrees a pint of boiling skim milk. Stir over a slow fire for eight minutes, pour it over the apples, and bake in a moderately hot oven for twenty minutes. Jam Crusts. Stamp out a sufficient number of rounds from a large slice of stale bread. Dip in milk. Fry these in boiling fat from which the blue smoke is rising until of a golden brown. Take out, drain, spread thickly with jam, and serve at once.