57 Fish Pudding also the fish and make very hot, stirring all the time in order to avoid burning. Then add from one to two ounces of freshly-cooked maca- roni, previously cut into inch lengths. Make very hot, dish up on a hot dish, garnish with savoury croutons, and serve at once. Savoury Croutons. Take slices of stale bread—those from a tin loaf are best—and divide each slice into four. Cut off the crust. Dip first into milk and then into finely-minced onion and parsley. Have ready a saucepan half full of clarified beef dripping ; wait until the blue smoke rises freely. Then add the croutons a few at a time only, and fry to a light golden brown. Take out quickly, drain on clean paper, and use as directed. Whiting- a la Portuguese. Place three medium-sized whitings in a clean stewpan, and add just enough stock to cover them ; if stock cannot be spared use water, and add an onion stuck with a clove. Simmer till tender and quite white, and do not let them over-cook ; they should be just cooked and no more. Strain carefully and place them in a hot fireproof china dish. Pour over them half a bottle of tomato catsup ; sprinkle thickly with finely-minced shalots and parsley. Place a few morsels of butter here and there, and make very hot in the oven, and allow the sauce just to set. Then serve at once. Haddock can be cooked in the same way, but the quantity of sauce must be increased if the fish are of large size. Fish Pudding. This is a very economical, appetising, and substantial dish. Take any sort of cold boiled white fish, weighing half a pound when freed from skin and bone. Add to it half a pound of cooked rice, which must be very dry. Mix well together, and add enough milk or cold sauce to make a stiff batter. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a little lemon juice. Then add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, and finally the whites whisked to a stiff froth. Mix all together lightly yet thoroughly. Grease a plain tin mould, and fill it three parts full with the mixture. Tie it down with buttered paper, and steam it for an hour. If you have not a proper steamer, place a dinner plate upside down in a clean saucepan ; place the tin containing the fish pudding upon this. Pour in just sufficient boiling water to reach not quite half- way up the side of the tin. Put the lid on the saucepan, and keep the water boiling for an hour. Should the water reduce, the quantity must be made up with more boiling water. Next takeoff the buttered paper. Take the tin in your hands with a cloth, turn it upside down over a hot dish ; give it a gentle shake, and the pudding will fall out. Have ready half a pint of well-made white sauce. Pour this around the pudding, and send to table at once.