20 False Economies False Economies. In any case do not economise over the butcher and the baker and the other bills, for the sake of a slightly finer house. Personally, I think that those who are absolutely forced to spend a larger propo- tion of their income upon house-rent are much to be pitied. Here too, however, I am inclined to recommend a flat, or failing this rooms, as the best solution of the difficulty, because it is then possible to tell at a glance what one’s expenses will be, and how much of the income must be reserved. Rooms, or half a house, can generally be had even in neighbour- hoods where flats are as yet unknown ; and by taking one or the other, it is at least possible to escape the ever-present bugbear of the taxes. In dear neighbourhoods these hqve a knack of going up with leaps and bounds, and with alarming suddenness. Those with very limited means should make this their motto : “ Save over rent and dress rather than over food ; ” for too often the saving, if it can be called such, is effected in quite a wrong direction. Country Rents. In the actual country rents vary considerably according to the locality, but it is generally possible to get a very good house and garden, rent and taxes included, for ^25 per annum. The fortunate possessors of a garden can often make a little extra pocket-money by flowers or poultry, but I should like to warn the inexperienced that much is not made in this direction save by those who know the business, and to counsel them not to take a house solely for this purpose, unless they possess practical knowledge of poultry- keeping, &c. &c. Wording’ an Agreement. When there is any doubt about the wording of an agreement, or the lease of a house, it will be found by far the best and safest plan to consult a lawyer. His fee for reporting on the lease will only be some 6s. 8d., and the money will be well spent, as in the long run it may save many pounds. No doubt the majority of landlords are honest men, but there are, in this as in every class, those who prey on the ignorance of the tenant, and a definite legal opinion is the only real safeguard. In the average flat the landlord does all the repairs, but with a house this is not so. It is well therefore to be very careful that a clause is put in the lease or agreement whereby the landlord and not the tenant is responsible for repairs of every kind. The neglect of this simple precaution has absolutely ruined many a man before now. Drains. These should always be carefully inspected by a properly qualified sanitary engineer. The fee for doing this is one guinea, but it is money well spent, and a lease should never be signed until the drains have been certified as being in a proper sanitary condition.