72 Boiled Cabbage melt. Wait until the blue smoke rises freely. Then add the potatoes a few at a time, and fry to a golden brown. Take out, drain on clean paper. Place in a hot dish on the top of the stove, and when all the potatoes are cooked, dust lightly with salt, and send to table. Boiled Cabbage. Pick off all the outside or discoloured leaves. Cut the stalk off. Cut the cabbage into quarters. Wash very thoroughly, and leave in cold water until ready to cook. Add a heaped tablespoonful of salt and a bit of soda about the size of a small walnut to each two quarts of water. Wait until the water actually boils. Add the cabbage, and cook from thirty to forty-five minutes. Leave the lid off while cook- ing, and press the cabbages down with a wooden spoon every now and then. Cauliflowers. Allow from twelve to fifteen minutes. Cook in boiling water, a heaped tablespoonful of salt for each two quarts of water. Leave the lid off, and skim every now and then. Allow twenty-five minutes for a large cauliflower, and from fourteen to fifteen minutes for a small one. Drain very carefully, dish up on a hot dish, with the flower upwards, pour some white sauce (see page 58) over, and serve. Turnip Tops. Wash well in half-a-dozen waters ; remove all discoloured leaves. Cook in boiling water with the lid off for from eighteen to twenty minutes, and allow a tablespoonful of salt and a bit of soda about the size of a very small walnut for each quart of water. Drain and press thoroughly. Dish upon a hot dish, and serve. Brussels Sprouts. Clean and wash the sprouts very thoroughly; remove all discoloured leaves first. Cook in boiling water with the lid off for twelve minutes, and add a tablespoonful of salt, and a tiny bit of soda to every two quarts of water. Drain carefully and serve at once. French Beans. String the beans carefully. Cut each bean into half-a-dozen very thin pieces slantwise, and directly they are cut place them in cold water to which has been added a little salt. Cook in boiling water with the lid off for from fifteen to twenty minutes, with a large table- spoonful of salt and a tiny bit of soda to every two quarts of boiling water. They are done when they sink to the bottom of the saucepan. For very young beans, from ten to twelve minutes will suffice. Peas. Shell, wash well in cold water. Cook in boiling water for from fifteen to twenty minutes, according to whether the peas are large or