134 The Hall or Passage The Landing's. If these are covered with cork carpet, wash them well; if stained boards, sweep carefully first, and then polish with camphor wax. Wash the paint of the landings windows when the windows are cleaned. Window Cleaning-. It is always best to have these done by a man or a boy, whenever it can be afforded. Indeed, nowadays one is open to a fine for allow- tng a woman-servant to clean a window above a certain height from the ground. Windows should be cleaned with warm water, and carefully dried with a soft cloth, then polished with a selvyt. The Hall or Passage. This should be done after the staircase. If covered with cork carpet, let it be well washed, first taking up the rug, which must be well shaken. The hall table and stairs should be polished with cam- phor wax, if of fumed or black oak, or mahogany or walnut ; if merely of a stained and varnished wood, a thorough dusting and a polish with a piece of soft silk will be sufficient. The picture frames, if gold, may be cleaned with a cloth damped with a little stout. The glasses should be well polished, and the glass globes or the lamp well cleaned. Saturdays. The maid should get up half-an-hour earlier on Saturdays as a regular thing, as those all-important articles, the kitchen range and the oven, must receive their weekly cleaning. The damper and the upper flues should first be opened, and then the flues most thoroughly brushed backwards and forwards, up and down, and round and round, until the soot falls. This done, the top of the stove should be opened and all the soot got out, and finally the flues underneath the stove must be treated in the same way. If this is done regularly every week, there will be no chance for the stove to get very dirty, unless huge fires are kept up. To Clean the Oven. Take out the baking shelves and scour it well down with very hot water and Brooke’s soap. Then blacklead the stove as directed for the dining-room grate. If any part is plated it can be cleaned with a little Sapolio, or Brooke’s soap, on a bit of rag, and then polished with a leather. The rest of the morning’s routine will be pretty much the same as before, except that the kitchen must receive its weekly turning-out.