Soiled Linen a pair of curtains, 4s., of the dark blue art linen aforesaid ; a cot for each child; and the nursery is complete. The very best cot for use in a combined night and day nursery is the Sanitary cot of green stained wood with a wire-woven mattress. These let down on one side in the daytime, and have the appearance then of little wooden empire couches more than beds; and if a couple of bright twilled cushions are arranged upon each cot, the illusion is complete.' These cots cost 19s. 6d. each, and the bedding is to be had from 8s. 6d. upwards. When there is room for it, a comfortable basket arm-chair, solidly built, is a comfort at times to the tired nurse or mother. These can be had from 8s. 6d. upwards. In a room of this kind everything superfluous should be avoided, so that the air may circulate as freely as possible; and the windows, except in the case of fog or excessive rain or snow, should be wide open all day, and at least six inches all night long. A stuffy close nursery and healthy children are not easily com- bined. Nursery Crockery Ware. This should be of the simplest and strongest sort; and if the baby is being brought up on the bottle, and a methylated spirit lamp is used to heat the food, this should be kept and lighted on a high shelf specially put up for the purpose, and well out of the reach of the other children. Soiled Linen. This should never be kept in a room where children eat and sleep, so that no linen basket is included in the nursery furniture. If the window opens so that the little ones can get at it and lean out, it should be well and strongly barred. If a lamp is used at all it should be a swinging bracket, high up, and well out of the reach of little fingers eager for mischief. Gas should never be burnt in a night nursery. The very best and safest things to use are the “ reflector reading candle lamps,” and though these cost 7s. 6d. each, the first expense is the greatest, as they are cleanly, practically safe, and, being of nickel silver, unbreakable. The candles for them may perhaps be expensive at first sight, as they cost is. per lb., but a lb. is equal quite to 2% lbs. of the ordinary soft quick-burning candles, so that in reality they are not costly. Whenever possible two rooms should be set apart for the use of the little ones, except in the case of infants and tinies who would naturally sleep in the mother’s room. ii5