74 Cabbage a la Creme To Make a Salad. Wash the lettuces or endive well. Dry carefully on a clean cloth. Tear into pieces of a suitable size. Rub a salad bowl with a split clove of garlic. Dust the lettuce well with salt and a little pepper. Use oil and vinegar in the proportion of two spoonfuls of oil to one of vinegar. Add a little finely-minced onion. Mix all well together, and serve at once. The garlic and onion may be omitted if the flavour is not liked. Beetroot Salad. Peel the beetroot, slice it very thinly. Place in a shallow dish or salad bowl. Dust with pepper and salt; use a dressing composed of oil and vinegar in equal proportions. Mix well, and serve. Cucumber Salad is made in precisely the same way. Vegetable Entrees. A very great economy as regards the butcher’s bill could be easily effected if the foreign custom of serving a separate vegetable course at luncheon or dinner, or both, were to be adopted by the English housewife. Innumerable dainty and very appetising dishes may be made from vegetables alone, at the cost of veritably only a few pence. And in proof thereof witness the following recipes. We will begin with our homely old friend the common or garden cabbage. In its new guise, though but few would recognise it, all will, I am sure, like it. Cabbage a la Creme. Take a large white-heart cabbage and boil it in salted water, together with an onion stuck with a clove. When it is thoroughly done take it out. Drain it carefully, chop it roughly, and then rub it through a very fine wire sieve. Use the back of a wooden spoon for the rubbing process, and every now and then reverse the sieve and scrape off the pulp adhering to the under side. When all the cabbage is through, place the pulp thus obtained in a small clean saucepan ; add to it a bit of butter about the size of a large walnut, as much finely-chopped garlic as will go on the point of a very small knife, pepper and salt to taste, and a pennyworth of cream or a tablespoonful of milk. Stir all well together until very hot, then dish up, conical- wise, on a very hot dish, garnish with finger croutons, and serve at once. Finger Croutons. Cut a slice of bread from a stale loaf—a tin loaf if possible ; then free this from crust, and cut it into long strips about the breadth and