40 How to Prepare Breakfast process, cut off the crust from each slice, and cut each slice into four strips. Place these in the toast-rack, and they are ready for table. Do not throw away the crusts ; they must be saved for use in the soup for dinner or supper. The next thing to be done is to fry the eggs and bacon. Cut the bacon into very thin delicate slices. Cut off the rind and the under- neath part. Take a perfectly clean frying-pan, put the slices of bacon in it, place the pan on the hottest part of the stove, or on the fire. Turn the bacon with a knife three or four times, cook for four or five minutes. Make a plate hot in the oven, dish the bacon up on this, and it is ready to serve. To boil eggs soft, allow three minutes; well set, four minutes; hard, five minutes ; or better still, use a penny egg-boiler. These can be had everywhere, and then the eggs will always be cooked to a turn. To fry eggs to serve with bacon, break the eggs into a cup, one egg at a time only, then add them to the bacon fat, put them in the pan, after the bacon itself has been taken out. Cook until the white of the egg has become thick and firm, slip the egg-slice under the egg, and put it on a piece of bacon. Don’t let the egg cook more than a couple of minutes. To Poach Egg’s. Put a pint of boiling water in a saucepan, with a teaspoonful of vinegar. Let it boil; break the eggs into a cup, one at a time, and add them to the water. Cook for three minutes. Take out gently with an egg-slice, and serve. If possible use an egg-poacher, price 6^d.; the eggs look neater and far more dainty. Bloaters. Split open the bloaters. Take out the trail and silver cord, leave the roes. Wipe the gridiron with a piece of greased paper ; place it on a clear fire. Put the bloaters on the grid ; cook them on one side for about three minutes, then turn them and cook them on the other side for as long. Put them on a hot dish, and send to table. Kippers. Rub them over on the brown side with a bit of butter; put them on the gridiron, cook for three minutes ; turn and cook for another three minutes. Dish up on a hot dish, and send to table. Dried Haddock. Fill a shallow stewpan not quite half full of absolutely boiling water. Add the haddock and cook from four to eight minutes according to the size of the haddock. If very small and thin, four minutes will be enough.