Braising 62 to boil for just five minutes, then cover the pan, draw it to one side of the fire, and simmer very slowly until the joint is thoroughly cooked. Note that the water must not be allowed to boil again, as should it do so the meat will toughen and be spoilt. All vegetables and flavouring herbs must be added when the pan is drawn to one side of the fire. Slightly more time should be allowed for boiling than for roasting. For Beef. Allow twenty minutes to the lb., and twenty minutes over. For Underdone Beef. Allow eighteen minutes to the lb., and fifteen minutes over. For Mutton. Allow twenty minutes to the lb., and a full twenty minutes over. For Veal. Allow twenty-five minutes to the lb., and twenty-five minutes over. For Pork. Allow twenty-five or thirty minutes to the lb., and at least thirty minutes over, and note that in all cases the water must be absolutely boiling before the meat is put in. Braising-. Place from an ounce to two ounces of clarified beef dripping in a clean deep stewpan. Directly it boils add to it a couple of carrots scraped and sliced, two turnips peeled and cut into neat squares, a bouquet garni, i.e. thyme, marjoram, bay leaf, parsley, all tied up to- gether, and four large onions peeled and thinly sliced. Fry all together for three or four minutes ; then add the meat, and fry for another ten or twelve minutes, turning it frequently in order that it may become equally browned all over. Then lift it with a fork, and with another fork rake all the vegetables underneath in such a manner that they form a bed for the meat. Add just sufficient stock or water to come half-way up the meat. Cover the pan tightly, draw it to one side of the fire, and braise it, i.e. simmer it very slowly until done, basting it very frequently. The time this will take varies, of course, with the size of the dish. For Beef or Mutton. Allow at least from twenty-five to thirty minutes to the lb. For Veal, especially if it is at all tough, allow from thirty to thirty-five minutes. For Lamb. From twenty to twenty-five minutes to the lb. ought to be ample. When done, dish up the meat on a hot dish, and reserve it in the oven. Remove the bunch of herbs. Thicken the sauce with an