A Specimen Day By this time it would be time for baby’s second bottle ; and then, if the weather is fine, he should be dressed and sent for his morning’s airing, if a nurse girl is kept, or if it is wet be put down to sleep. If there is no second girl, he would have to wait until he can go out with his mother for her round of shopping. If there are other children, they would be dressed by the nurse girl if one is kept, or failing this they should be dressed before break- fast, and the baby after breakfast. The elder children would have breakfast with the father and mother in this case. But if there is a nurse girl, they might have their breakfast with her in the nursery. The drawing-room and other dusting accomplished, the larder must be inspected, notes made of food required, lunch and other meals and the next day’s breakfast planned. If the maid of all work has already been taught to cook, it will only be necessary to write the order down; otherwise it will be as well to prepare the luncheon now, and make and start the pudding. Then dress, do shopping, return, and give baby his midday bottle. Have luncheon, and give the children their dinner if no nursemaid is kept. If there is, the little ones might have their dinner also in the nursery. This will leave the mother more free to attend to the baby, who by this time will require to be washed and made smart for the afternoon. Then the children should be dressed and sent or taken out for their airing. If there is no nurse girl the maid of all work should take them out, thus leaving the mother free for half-an-hour’s rest, and for sewing and mending. Tea must be got ready for their return, and this should be taken with their mother. After tea and romps come bath and bedtime. Supper in the case of quite little ones should come after the bath. The other children safely tucked up, baby will want his bath, bottle, and bed ; then the late dinner or hot supper must be got ready. The maid of all work will do this if she can cook, but if she cannot it will be found a better and a more time-saving plan to prepare it during the afternoon. There will be just time to don a pretty blouse, and arrange a few flowers for the table, before the husband’s return. All this will come easily if method is brought to bear upon every branch of household and nursery management. Meals must be at the same hour every day. Rooms must be turned out week by week on the same day ; there must be a place for every- thing, and everything must be kept in its place. Stores must be bought as far as is possible in quantities to last the week, and with good health all the rest will be found to work well. How to Clean. There is a right and a wrong way of cleaning. Who does not know the housewife who is for ever cleaning and worrying about cleanliness, and yet whose house is never really clean ? Most of us number some such among our acquaintances, and whether their servants are many, few, or only one, the result is always the same: such houses never look really well kept. J 20