73 Braised Spanish Onions small. For old peas allow at least thirty minutes. Add a lump of sugar, a heaped teaspoonful of salt, and a little fresh mint to every two quarts of water ; a tiny bit of soda may be added, if liked. Old peas are better stewed. Spanish Onions. Peel thinly, and cook slowly in salted water for from two hours to two and a half. Braised Spanish Onions. Peel thinly. Place them in a deep dish. Add enough stock nearly to cover them. Dust with pepper and salt, and simmer in the oven for two hours and a half. Serve in the dish in which they were cooked. If liked, they may also be baked in the oven in a well- greased pie dish, and with a large piece of butter placed on top of each ; this mode, though, is not so economical. Parsnips. Scrape carefully. If very large, quarter them. Cook in boiling salted water for from an hour to an hour and a half. Allow a heaped tablespoonful of salt to each two quarts of water. Small parsnips require less time for cooking. Drain carefully, dish up, and send to table. Turnips. Peel carefully ; if very large they should be quartered. Wash well, and cook in boiling salted water for from an hour to an hour and a quarter. Young turnips only require about twenty minutes cooking. Allow a heaped tablespoonful of salt to every two quarts of water. When done drain carefully. Mash well with a fork, add a tiny bit of butter and a little pepper. Dish up on a hot dish, and send to table at once. Carrots. Scrape the carrots ; if very large, quarter them lengthwise. Wash well, cook in boiling salted water from to z\ hours. Young carrots only require thirty to thirty-five minutes. Allow a heaped table- spoonful of salt to every two quarts of water. Take out, drain, and use as required. Vegetable Marrow. Peel and halve the marrow; cut the seeds out. Cook in boiling salted water for from half-an-hour to forty-five minutes. Young marrows only require from fifteen to twenty minutes, and are best with the seeds left in. Take out with an egg-slice. Drain, dish up on a hot dish. Put a piece of butter on top, and send to table. Allow a tablespoonful of salt to every two quarts of water.