142 To Wash Curtains othei. Shake well, and dry quickly. Mangling is better than ironing for flannels, but if you use an iron, take care that it is not very hot, and that the articles are correctly folded. New flannel garments should not be washed until they have been well soaked for at least twenty-five minutes in a lather made as directed above, to which has been added a lump of ammonia about the size of a small egg. The tub must be kept covered while the flannels are in soak. All flannels worn next the skin should also be first soaked from fifteen to twenty minutes in a lather to which a little ammonia has been added. Then squeeze and wash as directed. To Wash Handkerchiefs. They should be soaked in cold water to which has been added two heaped tablespoonfuls of salt; then wring them out in the ordinary way, and wash in warm water with Sunlight soap. Rinse out, and boil in a good lather for a quarter of an hour. Then rinse again, first in warm and then in cold water. Blue very lightly, wring thoroughly in the machine, and iron on both sides while still damp. In the country the handkerchiefs may be bleached on the grass. To Wash Table Linen. If unstained, soap and rub well in the ordinary manner. If stained, wash in very hot water, and use a little lemon juice, or powdered borax. Rinse thoroughly, and then wash in the usual way. To Wash Curtains. Soak in strong soda and water, then wash well in hot water, using plenty of soap. Rinse thoroughly. Boil in a soapy lather for half-an- hour ; rinse well in clean cold water ; put through the wringer, and then iron on both sides. If to be stiffened, use borax starch, wring carefully, and iron on both sides. Starch should always be used sparingly, as too much of it only causes the things to rot. Woven cotton garments should be well soaked first in a good lather. Then wash gently, and be careful not to pull out of shape. Boil in a soapy lather for twenty minutes. Rinse out in clear tepid water, then in cold water. Put through the wringer, dry, and iron with a moderately hot iron. Serviettes. These should be washed as directed for table-cloths, and so too should afternoon tea cloths, sideboard cloths, and tray cloths. Blankets. These should not be washed at home unless a washerwoman who understands her business is engaged for the day. Amateur washing of blankets generally results in their being spoiled.