CHAPTER V 136 Care of the Nursery How to train a nursemaid to wash a?id dress the baby—The baby's bottle— The nursery-maid's day—Some diet rules for children. How to Train a Nursemaid. It may perhaps be considered extravagant even to think of a nurse- maid, but if the mother is very delicate, or the family is rapidly increasing, a little nursemaid of some sort becomes a positive neces- sity. There are plenty of strong strapping girls from fourteen to fifteen years of age who are glad to come for a mere trifle of wages, is. 6d. or 2s. a week at the outside, and a good home and food. An advertisement in a country or the local paper is sure to bring some answers. It should be worded something like this :— “ Strong girl wanted to help mother look after children, and to take them out. Good home, and 2s. a week. Apply ...” Select a girl who is one of a large family. These “ little mothers ” often possess quite an astonishing fund of useful knowledge of a sort, and many of them are in a way as fitted to take a baby from the month as some of the nurses who advertise in the Morning Post, and demand high wages. A country paper and a country girl should be preferred, as if the girl’s home is close at hand, there is always a chance that the temptation of going in to see her own people when out with her little charges will prove too strong for her; on her nights out too she is sure to want to go home, and where there are a number of children illness may easily be carried. The fund of knowledge that some of these little mothers possess consists especially of washing and dressing, carrying and putting to sleep, and watching and amusing the little ones, but of diet or health, those all-important items, it is safe to say that they know absolutely nothing. If, therefore, the little nursemaid is permitted occasionally to preside at the nursery table, she must never under any circum- stances give “ tastes ” from her own plate to the baby or the little ones. To Wash and Dress the Baby. From the very first she should be taught, if she does not already know how, to wash and dress the baby and the other little ones. She should do this under your own eye, morning and evening, until you feel that, should occasion arise, you can safely trust her to do it alone.