21 The. Kitchen Range Rates and Taxes. It may happen in a very expensive neighbourhood, or one where the taxes are very high, that a house is much overrated in proportion to the rent; when this is the case it is always possible to appeal to the assessment authorities. Summary of Advice. When taking a house, be careful to ascertain before the lease is signed that the drains are in good and sanitary condition ; that all sinks, traps, manholes, &c., are in good order; that the roof is in good repair and weather-proof; that all the grates are in active order, that there are no defective flues, and that the bath and the hot and cold water service, if there is one, is in a proper state. The Kitchen Range. This in particular should come in for careful attention, for if it is old and worthless it will be impossible to have either good cooking or a plentiful supply of hot water, an important matter where there are small children. If upon a thorough examination the range is found to be old and defective, insist upon a new range being put in before you sign the lease. This in most cases will speedily bring the land- lord to reason. I have tried many and various ranges, and my opinion, born of practical experience, is that of all I have ever met The Eagle Range is the very best. It is cleanly, quick, fuel-saving, and, as my own cook once put it, “ It will burn anything.” For a flat I think a gas stove is preferable to anything, as it is labour-saving and time-saving, but for a joint recourse should always be had to the ordinary range, as food baked in a gas oven is never so appetising as that cooked in an ordinary oven, or in front of the fire. Of course when hot water is required a gas stove cannot be compared to an ordinary range with a good boiler. I once tried a gas boiler by- way of experiment ; it was not a success. For the young housewife who has her home in a flat, and does most of her own cooking, a small gas stove is a great convenience, and in summer-time a great economy too, but it should not be used in a house if the kitchen is away from the dining-room, as the average maid of all work has no notion of economy.