51 Puree of Potatoes Place an ounce of clarified beef dripping in a deep saucepan; as soon as it melts add to it an onion peeled and sliced, a sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram, and a bay leaf tied together. Fry for ten minutes, stirring all the time. Add the lentils and a quart of water. Place the lid on, draw the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer slowly for an hour and a half or two hours. As soon as all the vege- tables are thoroughly cooked, rub them through a sieve into a clean saucepan. Return to the fire ; mix an ounce of flour with half an ounce of butter to a smooth paste by means of half a wine-glassful of cold milk (skim milk will do). Place rather less than half a pint of milk, or skim milk, in a clean saucepan ; as soon as it boils add the mixed flour and butter, and stir over the fire until of the consistency of cream. Add this to the soup by degrees, stirring all the time, and continue to stir for five minutes. Then add pepper and salt to taste, and strain through a heated gravy strainer into a hot soup tureen. Serve with fried crusts, handed separately. Puree of Haricot Beans. This is made in the same way. Soak the beans for twenty-four hours. Puree of Dried Green Peas. This is made in the same manner. Soak the peas for twenty-four hours, and add a little dried mint to the flavouring ingredients. If powdered ipint is used, soak this in a very little cold water, and strain off the water before using the mint. Puree of Butter Beans. This is made in the same manner. Puree of Potatoes. Take i lb. of peeled potatoes and 4 ozs. of peeled onions; slice them thinly. Put 1 oz. of clarified dripping in a clean deep stewpan. Directly it melts add the onions and potatoes together, with a bunch of herbs, i.e. thyme, parsley, and a bay leaf all tied together; six peppercorns and a couple of cloves tied up in a bit of muslin. Cook slowly, and stir all the time, for ten or twelve minutes, but do not let the vegetables acquire much colour. Then add a quart of water, or a quart of skim milk or stock ; cover the pan, draw it on to one side of the fire, and cook slowly for an hour and a half. Rub through a sieve into a clean saucepan ; return the pan to the fire. Mix an ounce of flour with half an ounce of butter to a paste with half a wine-glassful of cold milk ; add to it by degrees not quite half a pint of absolutely boiling milk (skim milk will do). Stir oyer the fire until the mixture thickens, then add it to the puree, and stir over the fire for ten minutes. Add pepper and salt to taste’ make very hot, strain through a heated gravy strainer into a hot soup tureen, and serve at once with fried crusts, handed separately