Sausage Rissoles Fried Sausages. Put a bit of butter, lard, or dripping about the size of a small walnut in a clean frying-pan. Put the pan on the fire. Wait until the butter melts. Lay the sausages in the pan, and cook for ten minutes. Turn them constantly, and shake the pan frequently to prevent their sticking and burning. Cook pork sausages in the same manner, but allow from twelve to fifteen minutes, or even a little longer. Sausage Rissoles. Take half a pound of beef sausages, squeeze the meat out of the skins, and shape it into round balls. Crumble some stale bread with a bread-grater on to a plate. Add to it a slice of finely-minced onion, a little pepper and salt, and a well-beaten egg. Mix all to- gether. Dip each rissole into this. Put a bit of butter, lard, or dripping into a frying-pan, and let it melt. Add the rissoles, and cook for ten minutes. Drain on a bit of clean paper. Dish upon a hot dish, and serve. Pork sausage rissoles are made in the same way. Allow a little longer for cooking, say another couple of minutes. Savoury Eggs. Take some hard-boiled eggs, mix some stale bread crumbs, beaten egg, minced parsley and onion or shalot all well together. Add a little pepper and salt; shell the eggs. Dip each egg into the mixture. Roll it round so that it may get well coated. Place a bit of butter, or dripping, or lard, about the size of a large walnut in a clean frying-pan. Directly it oils add the eggs, and fry until of a light golden brown hue. Take out and drain on clean kitchen paper. Dish upon a hot dish, and send to table at once. Savoury Crusts. Cut a sufficient number of slices of bread from a very stale loaf, a tin loaf for preference. Cut off the crust, then cut each slice into four pieces. Dip each piece of bread for a moment into milk. Mix a tablespoonful of finely-minced shalot or onion with a heaped tea- spoonful of parsley and a beaten egg, add a little pepper, salt, and a dessert-spoonful of bread crumbs. Mix well together. Dip each crust into the mixture. Place half a pound of lard in a deep saucepan. Place it on the fire, and wait until it melts and a thin blue smoke rises from it. Then add the crusts, three at a time, and fry until they are of a light golden hue. Take them out with a fish slice, and drain them on clean kitchen paper. Dish upon a very hot dish, and send to table. I give lard in this recipe because I am assuming that the breakfast is the first one, and therefore there would naturally be no clarified dripping in the house. Directly you have finished frying the crusts 4i