67 Blanquette of Veal Blanquette of Veal. Take a piece of veal from 2 to 4 lbs., dust it lightly with salt and pepper. Place an oz. of clarified dripping in a clean deep stewpan. As soon as it melts add to it the veal, and half-a-dozen onions peeled and cut into quarters. Fry for ten minutes, then add a little butter ; then half a pint of skim milk or milk and water, a blade of mace, and a sprig of parsley. Draw the pan to one side of the fire ; cover tightly, and stew gently for from one and a half to two and a half hours, according to the size of the joint. Dish up on a hot dish, and arrange the onions in little groups round it. Take out the mace, &c. Thicken the liquor in which it was cooked with an oz. of flour and J oz. of butter, stir till of the consistency of cream, add pepper and salt to taste ; pour over the veal. Send to table at once, accompanied by baked potatoes and any other vegetables best liked. Salt Pork American Fashion. Buy 1 lb. or ij lb. of salt pork, and get the butcher to slice it for you into rashers, just as if it were bacon, but do not have them cut quite through. Then boil it until very tender. Leave it to get cold in the water in which it has been cooked. When quite cold, take it out and divide the slices. Place a bit of dripping about the size of a small walnut in a stewpan ; as soon as it melts add to it a very large onion peeled and finely chopped, and a very little powdered sage. Then add the pork and fry all together, turning frequently until it is very hot. Dish up on a hot dish, garnish with fried cabbage, and send to table accompanied by baked or boiled potatoes and apple sauce. To Fry Cabbage. Take a freshly-boiled, or a cold boiled cabbage ; chop it finely. Place an oz. of clarified dripping in a clean stewpan; directly it melts add the cabbage. Dust with pepper and salt, and fry till very hot, turning frequently. Then use as above directed. Cold boiled pork or cold roast pork may be treated in the fore- going fashion. If a portion of sage and onion stuffing remains on hand, it should be used instead of the chopped onion and powdered sage, and is far superior to it. It is as well, therefore, to make rather more stuffing than will be required in the first instance, if any cold pork is likely to be left. A little extra apple sauce should also be made at the same time.