28 Hot Meals troublesome to prepare, but they are infinitely more appetising, nourishing, and easily digested. With a little time and forethought it is quite possible to prepare the best part of the dinner or supper beforehand. Thus, if the mid- day meal for the little ones is to consist of a stewed breast of mutton with vegetables, this could be halved before it is cooked, and the second half braised with peas, or stuffed with veal stuffing and roasted, so as to avoid monotony of fare. Or, when a steak pudding is the staple at the early dinner, let this be made slightly smaller, and in- stead of the saved and warmed-up portion so often reserved, jug the rest of the beef and serve it as “ Mock Hare,” or braise it slowly with plenty of vegetables and a little macaroni, and serve it as “ Beef Milanaise.” If cold mutton only is available, have nothing to say to hash. Serve a dish of croquettes instead, and earn your husband’s gratitude. If liver and bacon has been the dish at the earlier meal, don’t let this reappear merely warmed up. Place a bit of butter in a clean frying-pan ; as soon as it melts add to it a very large onion, peeled and sliced ; fry for two or three minutes, then add the gravy from the liver and bacon, and a very small teaspoonful of curry powder, more or less, according to whether very hot or mildly hot things are liked. Stir well together, and if there is not quite sufficient gravy dredge in a little flour; add a little stock or water, and stir all well together until it thickens and is of a good brown colour. Then add seasoning to taste and the liver and bacon made hot, dish up on a hot dish, garnish with a border of well-cooked rice, and serve with baked potatoes. If white fish either baked or boiled has been the midday meal, don’t serve it cold at night. Make half a pint of well-flavoured white sauce, add the fish well-flaked and freed from skin and bone to this, season to taste ; add 4 ozs. of fresh-cooked macaroni, mix all well together, and serve with baked potatoes. If brown fish, such as fresh herrings or mackerel, are in question, reserve half of them uncooked until evening, unless the weather is very hot, then split and clean these, place them on a well-greased fireproof china dish, with a bit of butter and a j of a teaspoonful each of finely-minced shalot and parsley in the centre of each herring, and bake in a moderately hot oven until done. Then serve with baked potatoes in a separate dish. If a hock of boiled bacon and peas-pudding and potatoes has formed the chief dish earlier in the day, don’t serve this cold. Go to work like this. Cut a sufficient number of slices from the hock before it is boiled. Reserve these, then grill or fry them at night, and serve them with the boiled green peas and baked potatoes. The contents of half a packet of Farrow’s marrowfat peas, price 3|d. a packet, will be ample for two or three people. These of course are only speci- men suggestions. Potatoes. As another small economy avoid ordinary boiled potatoes except when new, or for a special occasion. Half the potato goes to waste