Fish for a Change A stew with plenty of vegetables and a little macaroni may be made from the underdone portions, and will serve for the early dinner on Monday. Some 4 ozs. of the leanest part will produce a dish of hot croquettes for Monday night’s dinner, or hot supper, and the bones will produce soup. The trimmings of the scrag may be added to the soup, and the scrag itself together with the trimmings from the cutlet end will make a capital Irish stew for Tuesday’s early dinner. Add barley or rice to this stew, for although it thereby loses its strictly Irish character, it will be much more tasty. If the weather is cool and dry, and the larder a good one, cool and dry also, the cutlets remaining may with advantage be hung until the Wednesday or Thursday, when they should serve for the latter dinner or supper, but in hot or very damp weather it will be safer to use them. In suitable weather a good-sized piece of silverside, flank of beef, and top ribs must be bought, and this, carefully divided, should serve for the rest of the week. A slice cut off as before suggested will serve for a beefsteak pudding, or for a hot beefsteak pie for Tuesday night. A thick slice braised with plenty of vegetables will form a substantial dinner for the Wednesday, and the remainder boiled and served with suet dumplings will supply dinner for Thursday. Fish for a Change. A variety could be introduced in the weekly menu by serving fish on Fridays as a regular thing, and then the rest of the beef could be turned into a mince or a curry or a shepherd’s pie on Saturday for early dinner. If top ribs are bought in place of silverside, they should be roasted, and served rather underdone. This plan is better for the purposes of a rechauffd, but in either case a slice should be cut off first for a steak pie or pudding, or for a dish of beef olives, or mock goose. The cold roast beef might then be served up in any of the fore- going guises, as a hash, or as croquettes, or rissoles, or if very under- done, it could with advantage be served hot again with plenty of gravy, accompanied with golden potatoes and cauliflowers. 3-2