Thick Soups and Purees Simmer very slowly until the onions are quite tender, then add pepper and salt to taste, and serve. If it is desired to make this soup rather more substantial, add also half a teacupful of well-washed barley ; simmer slowly until the barley is thoroughly cooked, and then serve at once. Potage a la Bretonne. Take a quart of the stock and put it into a clean stewpan. Add to it six small or four large onions peeled and thinly sliced, half an oz. of crushed tapioca, or a dessert-spoonful of French tapioca. Cook slowly until the onions are quite tender and the tapioca is clear, but take care that the soup does not boil away. Add salt and pepper to taste, and serve at once. Barley, sago, or rice may be used in place of tapioca. Potage a la Flamande. Put a quart of the stock in a clean stewpan, add to it a peeled and finely-sliced Spanish onion, two carrots scraped and cut into neat squares, and a well-washed leek shred finely. Cook slowly until the vegetables are quite tender. Add salt and pepper to taste, and serve at once. Thick Soups and Purees. These are another very great aid to economy, as many of them can be made with water, or milk and water, when stock is not to hand. To make a successful puree, it is necessary to learn how to use a sieve. This is the method:— Turn the sieve upside down over a basin, or, better still, fit it (still upside down) into a clean saucepan ; pour a little of the soup through the sieve, take a wooden spoon and press the puree through the sieve, using the back of the spoon, and drawing it towards you, pressing as heavily as possible. Reverse the sieve, and with the point of the spoon scrape off the pulp which sticks to the under side. Replace the sieve in its first position, and continue the rubbing process until all the puree is through ; remove the sieve and rinse it well with hot water, afterwards cleaning it as directed upon page 6. During the sieving process hold the sieve firmly in the left hand, and tilt it downwards towards the right. These rules hold good whether the article to be sieved is soup, a vegetable, or fruit, and a very little practice makes perfect. For everyday use a wire sieve may be used in. place of a hair one, but the puree will not in this case be of so creamy a character. It will be well to practise first with a wire sieve, and then to go on to the use of a hair sieve. If time is of consequence, and the best result is desired, put the soup first through a wire sieve, and afterwards through the hair one. Puree of Lentils. Take half a pint of yellow lentils. Soak them for twelve hours. Wash them well. Reserve them. 5°