122 To Dust the Dining-Room carved oak, brush it first with a stiff brush, and then dust it. By this plan the carving will never get dirty. If you can only afford one servant, you should have the plainest and simplest furniture—it can be kept clean so much more easily. To Dust the Dining-Room. Dust the surround and all the corners first, then dust the chairs, &c., and put them in their places. Dust the mantelpiece, moving all the things first, then dust them one by one and replace them. Finally dust the grate, fender, and fireirons with a separate duster kept for the purpose. In winter the ashes must be taken up, the grate cleaned, and the fire laid and lighted before the room is swept. Dust gas globes every day, inside as well as out ; then they will seldom want cleaning, and the risk of breaking them is less. Lay the breakfast table, then go into the kitchen and cook the breakfast. If washing is done at home, the copper fire must be lighted at the same time as the kitchen fire. Take in the dining-room breakfast. Have your own breakfast, and make up the fire. Then go straight upstairs to the bedrooms; take your enamelled slop pail with you, and a big can of hot water. Take two cloths ; use one for the basins and soap dishes, the other for the slop pails, &c. Wipe all the washing sets out quite clean and dry. Go straight downstairs, empty the slops, rinse out your slop pail, dry it, and leave the lid off. Rinse out the slops cloths, first in hot and then in cold water, and hang them up to dry in the scullery, or, if there is no scullery, in the bath-room ; not in the kitchen or the lavatory. Go back to the bedrooms, sweep up the bits with a patent sweeper, then make the beds. The mistress should open all the windows and strip the beds quickly before breakfast, herself, as this gives them longer to air, and saves the servant’s time. When making a bed, turn the mattress from head to foot, and allow plenty of blanket to tuck in at the foot. Then dust the bed- rooms and polish the glasses. Dust each grate, fender, and irons carefully with a separate duster. If the floors are covered with cork carpet, it will be found quicker and better to dust them with a damp duster. In any case go well into the corners. If the washing is done at home, the mistress should do the bed- rooms on Mondays, in order to leave the servant quite free for the laundry work. If the washing is put out, or a washerwoman comes in to do it, a room should be turned out on Mondays, for preference the drawing-room. In any case the mistress should dust the draw- ing-room. The bedrooms finished, go downstairs, wash up the breakfast things ; make the pudding for early dinner and put it on ; then turn out the drawing-room.