127 Bright Dish Covers Pastry or Meat Boards. Scrub them well with plenty of hot water and soda. Rinse first in hot and then in cold water, and leave them on the hot rack till quite dry. The rolling-pin and the pastry-cutter must be cleaned in the same way. The Egg- Brush. Place it in a jug full of hot water, and add a bit of soda as soon as it is done with ; shake about in this very thoroughly until quite clean. Then rinse in cold water, and shake till it is nearly dry. To Clean Kitchen Kettles. Scrape them inside twice a week to prevent furring, and scour the outside well with a kettle brush. All bright kettles should be cleaned with Brooke’s soap on the outside only. Bright Dish Covers. Wash these well in Hudson’s soap and plenty of very hot water. Then dry them, and polish with a leather. If this plan is followed each time they are used, the regular weekly cleaning will be simplified. For this cover them with a paste of whitening and water or methylated spirit. Leave this to dry on. Then rub it off and polish with a leather. To Clean Trays, &e. If the trays are dirty, wash well with tepid water and soap, rinse, then dry and polish with a little dry flour, and give another polish with a clean leather of a very dry cloth. This is for Japanese and lacquered trays or tumblers. To Wash Glasses or Tumblers. Use tepid water, and if very dirty from milk or anything of a greasy nature, use plenty of Hudson’s soap. Rinse very thoroughly in plenty of cold water, dry with one cloth and polish with another. If the glasses are stained with wine, put a little vinegar and water into each glass, and let it soak well before it is washed. To Wash China Tea or Breakfast Things. Use plenty of hot water and a little Hudson’s soap. Rinse in cold water, and dry on a proper tea cloth. Keep all cloths separately, and use them only for the one purpose. This ensures spotless plates and dishes and well-kept glass and china. Milk jugs and china tumblers should be scalded with hot water as soon as they are empty. Then wash well in hot water to which has been added a bit of borax; rinse in cold water, and dry. If any wooden