91 The Drawing-Room A good strong dining-table, 3 ft. 6 in. by 5 ft. long, £1 with an extending screw .... 9 b Plushette for curtains for two windows (this saves expense of washing) 0 10 0 Pair of blue and white Jap vases for mantelpiece 0 4 0 8-day clock, fumed oak, to match the suite 1 1 0 Tablecloth tapestry 0 8 11 Set of 4 photogravures, framed complete . 0 10 0 Block iron fender, dogs and irons complete 0 14 9 Gipsy coal cauldron 0 3 11 Total 2 1 The room will thus be in excellent taste, though absolutely simple. If a sideboard is preferred in place of the dinner wagon, another ^5 must be put on to the cost. Beware of cheap and useless ornaments; “ few and as choice as means will permit ” should be your motto. A big copper or brass bowl to serve for flowers will improve the wagon, and is appropriate. The Drawing-room. A dainty little drawing-room suite, covered in tapestry of two shades of art blue, with touches of dull orange. This suite, which consists of a settee, two arm-chairs, and four small chairs, will cost ,£3, 15s. It is polished a good rich mahogany colour, and the tapestry is also good, and will wear well, despite the extraordinarily low price. A better suite, though scarcely prettier, can be had for ^5, and a really exquisite one of first-class quality for ^8. A thoroughly comfortable sofa is a necessity in every house. I specially recommend for the drawing-room “ The Walmer,” which is soft and luxurious, and of artistic shape, while the price, £3, 7s. 6d., is exceedingly moderate. An extra arm-chair to match costs £1, 15s. Both are upholstered in rich-hued tapestry, and finished with large oxidised nails, and would harmonise with either of the suites before mentioned. An overmantel could be dispensed with, and its place taken by a photogravure or a quaint hanging cabinet ; but if my readers think differently, a pretty mirror in a solid carved mahogany frame may be had for £z, 18s. 6d., or a stained and polished mahogany overmantel may be had for as little as £1, 9s. 6d. A writing-table of some sort is needed, and a pretty one to go with the suite can be had for £z, 7s. 6d. If there is a piano a music seat will be required, and one of these upholstered to match the suite costs 13s. 6d. For a tea-table I should recommend “The Sutherland,” with folding flaps, price 17s. 6d. An occasional table to match may be had for 15s. 6d. A pretty screen to accord with the suite will cost 15s. 6d., and as some flats are very draughty, this is a wise investment. For the sum of one guinea a charming set of six or eight photo- gravures can be had, framed complete, and suitable for a drawing-