CHAPTER VII 45 Other Breakfast Dishes Savoury bacon and rice—Savoury potatoes—Italian criests—Savoury rice—Potato cakes—Egg pie—Sausage and egg pie—Hot break- fast cakes—Haddock with egg sauce. Savoury Rice and Bacon. Take | lb. of well-cooked rice; it should be very dry. Place 2 ozs. of clarified beef dripping in a clean pan. As soon as it melts add to it a heaped tablespoonful of finely-chopped onion or shalot, the latter for preference. Fry for four minutes, and then add the rice, and continue td fry until this is of a pale fawn colour. It must be turned constantly to prevent its burning and to ensure equal colouring. Add pepper and salt to suit your own taste, dish upon a hot dish, garnish with little rolls of fried bacon, and serve at once. This is for half-a-dozen people. When only two have to be catered for, cook the bacon first, then dish it up. Add the chopped onions to the fat remaining in the pan, and fry them for three or four minutes, then add from 2 to 3 ozs. of cooked rice, and fry till it is of golden hue. Add pepper and salt to taste, and finish as directed. The rice can be cooked overnight. Flank of bacon, which can be had as a rule for 6d. a lb., will answer quite as well as streaky at twice the price for this dish. Savoury Potatoes. This forms a good substantial dish for breakfast, luncheon, or supper. Mash from 1 to 2 lbs. of freshly-boiled or cold boiled potatoes with a fork. Melt a piece of butter about the size of a walnut in a clean enamelled iron stewpan, add to it the potatoes and a wine-glass- ful of absolutely boiling milk for each pound of potatoes. Beat up with a fork until quite white and light and very hot. Have ready \ lb. of freshly-fried beef sausages. Free them from their skins, chop them and add them to the potatoes, and beat up for another two or three minutes. Pile them upon a very hot dish, and pull into conical shape with a fork. Place a few morsels of butter here and there, and brown in a hot oven for a minute or two. Then serve at once. Italian Crusts. Take from 2 to 8 ozs. of any sort of cold white fish, boiled or fried. Free it from skin and flake it with a fork. Melt £ an oz. of butter