49 D Stock from Cooked Bones If you want to use a portion of it as soon as it is taken from the fire, wring a serviette out in ice-cold water very tightly. Place it over a hair sieve. Pour as much of the stock as you require through it into a clean saucepan. The ice-cold cloth chills and retains the fat, so that the soup is practically quite free from it, and can be used straight away. Stock from Cooked Bones. Take from 3 to 3^ lbs. of any sort of cooked bones. A mixture of veal and beef, or beef and mutton, are the best, and any poultry bones are a great improvement. Chop the bones into smallish pieces. Place them in the stockpot, or in a deep saucepan. Add two quarts of water and three teaspoonfuls of salt. Bring gently to the boil, re- move any scum that may rise, add a gill of cold water, two large car- rots scraped and sliced, a turnip peeled and cut into small squares, two large onions peeled and stuck with a clove, and a bouquet garni, i.e. a sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram, and a bay leaf all tied together. Put the lid on, draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and sim- mer slowly for five hours and a half, and take care that the contents of the saucepan do not all boil away. “ Soup boiled is soup spoiled ” is an adage that the self-taught cook should always bear in mind. Next strain the soup through a fine hair sieve into a clean basin. If you have not a sieve use a fine old cloth laid over a colander. Put the basin in the coolest corner of the larder and leave till cold. Remove the cake of fat from the top, and the stock will be ready for use. Here are some ways in which the stock may be utilised:— Croute au Pot. Take a sufficient amount of stock, place it in a clean stewpan, add to it a large carrot scraped and thinly sliced, a turnip peeled and cut into tiny squares, and half a cold boiled cabbage, and also a small crust of stale bread for each person. Simmer very slowly until the vegetables are thoroughly cooked. Add pepper and salt to taste, and serve. Potage bonne Femme. Place a quart of the stock in a clean saucepan. Add a carrot scraped and cut into small squares, a turnip peeled and cut into squares, a few leaves of lettuce, and a couple of tablespoonfuls of cold cooked or uncooked peas. Simmer slowly until the vegetables are very tender. Add pepper and salt to taste and an egg beaten up with a gill of milk; skim milk will do. Make very hot, but do not let it boil or the egg will curdle. Add a little minced parsley, and serve. Potage a la Gudewife. Place a quart of the stock in a clean stewpan. Add to it two large onions peeled and sliced, and the half of a cold cooked cabbage.