146 Waiting at Table Such a dinner as this need add next to nothing to the weekl expenses, if the stockpot is a regular institution. The only extras 01 the menu cost as follows :— 4 fresh herrings, id. each 04 Cabbage for the vegetable course . . . . 02 Cream 02 7 Bananas 6 Dessert, say seven oranges ... ..03 1 lb. of white grapes, or 2 lbs. apples . . .06 Total in I am assuming that the regular dinner or supper prepared for th< head of the house would have consisted of potato soup, meat witl baked potatoes, and a savoury anchovy toast. As regards beverages, it is difficult to offer any practical sugges tions. Most men would prefer good beer or stout to the indifferen sherry, claret, or hock, which is all that could be afforded. Perhaps, under the circumstances, the best and cheapest wine tha could be provided would be a flagon of Australian Burgundy, shern being handed with the fish. Waiting- at Table. The maid should bring in the soup tureen and soup plates, anc place them before her mistress, who would serve the soup, the maic handing the plates. She would then retire, dish up the fish, remove the tureen and soup plates, and bring in the fish. Hand it to her mistress to serve. Pour out the sherry. Retire. Dish up the mea: course and the potatoes. Return. Take the fish and fish plates Bring in the vegetables and plates. Hand the meat when her mis- tress or master has carved it. Pour out the wine, or whatever beverage is used. Retire. Dish up the next course. Return. Take the plates &c. Bring in the vegetable course. Hand it. Retire. Bring in the sweet course and plates. Pour out more wine, hand bread, &cjrfkieeded. Then take oul the plates, &c. Place clean plates, and hand the sweet course when served. She should then retire and dish up the savoury. Return and take the plates and hand the savoury. When served, retire and make the coffee, so as to have it in readiness. Return. Remove the plates, salt cellars, peppers, mustards, &c. Clear away the crumbs with the scoop and crumb tray. Place a dessert plate, with its attendant finger-bowl, and fruit knife and fork in front of each person, and retire. If coffee is taken in the dining-room, she should wait until the ladies go in to the drawing-room, when she should at once take in the coffee- tray, on which should be placed, beside the small coffee-cups and: saucers and the coffee, a jug of absolutely boiling milk, the sugar-[ basin, &c. The coffee can either be poured out before the tray is taken