CHAPTER III T 29 I Preparations for Meals To lay a table: for luncheon ; for breakfast—After7ioon tea— Tidy habits. To Lay a Table. PLACE the cloth on quite straight. When taking it off, fold it in the same creases always, and then it is sure to look nice. The mistress should place the table centre and arrange the flowers, unless there are children, when this would be about their bedtime. Then for each person put on the right hand a soup spoon, and if fish is to be served, a fish knife and a large knife ; on the left a fish fork, a small fork and spoon. Fold the serviettes, and place one in the middle for each person. The salt, pepper, and mustard may be placed either at the corners of the table, or directly in front of each cover, as it is called. Place a couple or more tablespoons at the cor- ners of the table, and put mats in front of the master and mistress. On the right side of each person put a wine-glass and a tumbler. Also on each side of the mat a spoon may be placed if liked. Place water bottles and tumblers at the corners of the table. If a lamp is used, or candles, these also should be put on the table. Other things that will be required in the course of the dinner, such as cheese, biscuits, butter, fruit, and the finger bowls, and fruit plates and knives and forks, should be put in readiness on the sideboard. It will be found a good plan, and one that saves both the washing and the sideboard, to use the partly soiled table-cloths folded into three for sideboard cloths. Of course a proper sideboard cloth should be used for special occasions. The dessert plates and finger bowls are arranged thus :—First put a doyley on the fruit plate. On this place the finger bowl, and put the knife and fork on either side of this, the knife at the right, the fork at the left. Little fancy spoons or sweetmeat dishes should be arranged on the table centre, and, in fact, for the return of the husband even more than at other meals, the table should always look its very prettiest and daintiest When natural flowers cannot be afforded, a few sprays of the pink almond blossoms, which can now be bought or made at home so cheaply, should be arranged, a centre vase in the middle, and a small vase at each of the four corners of the table. Variety can be had by using a different centre ; one night a strip of dull green velvet, another dull mauve velvet, or even tinted butter muslin prettily ruffled. Butter muslin in pale pink and green and blue is only 2,fd. a yard, and a yard and a half is ample. The best