'43 To Make Hot Starch Nursery Diapers. These should always be washed out every day. Use only a very mild soap, and rinse in at least four waters—one hot, one tepid, and two cold. Pass through the wringer. Dry very thoroughly. Air well, and fold. This refers to Turkish diapers. The ordinary birdseye diapers will require ironing, and all should be very thoroughly aired. Shirts and Collars. These should be put out. It is safe to say that they never last well or look well when done at home, and a man cannot look really smart in badly laundried linen. Pinafores and Overalls. These, whether of coloured material or of muslin, when washed and rinsed, should be starched with hot starch, dried well, and then lightly damped and rolled in a large towel or a small cloth. Leave for three hours, then iron. Coloured Frocks. Soak these in strong salt and water for two hours; then wash in the usual way. To Make Blue. Tie it up carefully and tightly in a bit of flannel ; mix very thoroughly with cold water. To Make Hot Starch. Take 4 ozs. of starch and mix it to a paste with a little cold water. Have ready a kettle half full of boiling water; add it to the starch by degrees, stirring all the while. The starch will thicken first, and then gradually clear. Then add to it very quickly a small teacupful of boiling water in which has been dissolved a teaspoonful of borax. There are no lumps in properly made starch. To prevent this, before using it strain through a strainer kept solely for the purpose. Cold Starch. Take 2 ozs. of starch, mix it to a paste with a little cold water, then add very gradually half a pint of cold water. Finally add a tea- cupful of cold water in which has been dissolved a small teaspoonful of borax. A little more water may be added if the starch is con- sidered too thick. A few drops of turpentine are considered by some laundresses to produce a better glaze. These recipes are for ordinary starch, but if borax starch is used the turpentine and the dissolved borax should not be added to it.