CHAPTER VIII 48 How to Cook a Dinner The soup—Stock from uncooked bones—Stock from cooked bones— Croute au pot—Potage bonne femme—Pot age a la gudewife— Potage a la Bretonne—Potage a la Flamande—Thick soups and purees—Puree of lentils—Of haricot beans—Of dried greeti peas —Of butter beajis—Of potatoes—Of artichokes—Of turnips or parsnips—Of green peas—Of carrots—Puree a la Reine—Fried crusts—To clarify fat—How to fry in deep fat. The principal meal, whether early or late, requires greater expenditure of time and trouble than any other. Where there are children, they will take their dinner at midday; but if the plan I have already indicated is followed, husband and wife can enjoy a very cosy little dinner together every evening without much extra trouble. The Soup. If you are but just starting to keep house, there will, of course, be no material to hand the first week for stock, and bones must be bought. The second week, however, there should be quite enough meat and poultry bones, &c., saved to furnish the stockpot. Stock from Uncooked Bones. Take three pennyworth of beef and veal bones mixed ; chop them up into small pieces. Put them on a dish and sprinkle them with salt. Place the dish in the oven, and leave it for ten minutes. This will brown the bones and ensure the soup being of a good colour. Next put the bones in the stockpot or in a deep clean saucepan, add a little more than two quarts of water, and bring slowly to the boil. Remove the scum which will have risen to the top, add a turnip peeled and sliced, two large carrots scraped and sliced, two large onions peeled, sliced, and stuck with a clove, a sprig of parsley, and a bit of thyme and marjoram and a bay leaf tied up together. Cover the pan tightly, draw it to the side of the fire. Simmer very slowly for five or six hours ; take care that the stock does not boil away. Strain it through a fine hair sieve into a deep basin, and leave in the larder till next day if possible. Then remove the cake of fat which will be found floating on the top. Reserve this on a plate (we will see how to clarify it presently), and the stock will then be ready to be turned into soup.