92 Study Simplicity room. A standard floor lamp, if required, rising seven feet high, with shade complete, in beaten iron and copper, will cost 18s. 9d. A brass folding fire-guard costs 4s. 6d. A gipsy cauldron in black iron, of medium size, will cost 3s. 6d.; and a brass kerb, or a fender with fireirons complete, all brass or black and brass, costs from 10s. 6d. to ^1, is.; while a hearthrug to match the carpet, or in white hair, may be had for 7s. 6d. A pretty clock in dark blue, with ormolu mounts, can be had for 10s. 6d., and a pair of polished brass candlesticks, suitable either for mantelpiece or writing-table, for 2s. 6d. A pair of quaint green Belgian pottery vases may be had for 3s., and a brass or copper bowl for flowers for 2s. 6d. Long plain window curtains, made well to clear the ground, of orange Roman satin or of linen plush, are excellent, as these wear practically for ever, and save their cost over and over again. Roman satin can be washed at home when occasion arises, and if carefully ironed will look equal to new. The linen plush would have to be sent occasionally to the cleaners. Roman satin of excellent quality can be bought for 2s. 1 id. a yard. Linen plush costs the same, and both run fifty inches wide. If there are two windows, and allowing ten yards of material, two and a half to each curtain, the curtains will cost exactly £1, 9s. 2d. It is probable that much less will be needed, as, should the win- dows be of the casement shape, as is usual in flats, the curtains should only reach just to the lower edge of the inside sill. In the case of French windows, however, long curtains are a necessity. The curtains should be simply hemmed top and bottom, and edged with a flat braid or gimp in two shades of sunset yellow and orange ; this applies to either the linen plush or the Roman satin. Unless the windows are of abnormal size, one breadth of the material will be ample, and will allow for all necessary fulness. Allowing 5s. for braid, &c., the full cost of the curtains (two pairs) will be exactly £1, 14s. 2d. A pair of cornice poles, with rings complete, may be had for 2s. i id. each, in white or ivory enamel. It is unnecessary to go to the expense of brass rods, as they are really scarcely seen. The drawing-room may now be said to be complete, at a total cost of about £22, 10s. Study Simplicity. I have allowed nothing for cushions or nicknacks, since most people receive these among their wedding presents. If cushions are required, they may be had in velvet or silk for 3s. 1 id., and of smaller size for 2s. 1 id. Do not overload your drawing-room|either with furni- ture or bric-a-brac; an over-furnished house is like an over-dressed woman, never in good taste.