CHAPTER XII Some More Simple Entrees Muttofi cutlets a la Delphine—Ptarmigan e?i Casserole—Poulet a la bonne femme— Veal a la Bettine—Cold mutton—Beef au gratin —Lamb au gratin. Of dishes other than roasts, braises, or stews, the housewife who has to cater on small means has not a great variety. I append one or two, however, which will serve as fair examples. Mutton Cutlets a la Delphine. When a whole neck of New Zealand mutton has been bought, cut off half-a-dozen cutlets; trim these neatly, egg and bread-crumb them ; place sufficient clarified dripping in a clean saucepan to half fill it when melted. Let it melt till the blue smoke rises. Then add the cutlets, fry to a golden brown, take out, drain on kitchen paper, arrange round the following puree, and send to table. For the purde :—Boil a couple of pounds of potatoes and a small cauliflower until cooked. Drain. Rub through a fine wire sieve, mix well together, season highly with pepper and salt and a tiny grate of nutmeg. Then make into a stiffish purde with about a wine-glassful of milk ; make hot in a saucepan, and whisk all the time. Pile up lightly on a hot dish, and use as directed. Cabbage may take the place of cauliflower, if liked, or six large onions to the pound of potatoes. In this case cook the onions and potatoes together. A bit of butter about the size of a walnut added while whisking is an improvement to the puree. Ptarmigan en Casserole. Ptarmigan are cheap—iod. each. One of these fonns a nice little hot dinner or late supper, cooked as follows :—Take a ptarmigan trussed for roasting. Place an ounce of clarified dripping in a clean stewpan ; when it melts add the ptarmigan and as much minced garlic as will go on the point of a small knife, and a bunch of herbs, thyme, marjoram, parsley, and bay leaf all tied together. Fry for ten minutes, turning frequently until of a nice light golden brown all over, then draw the pan to the side for thirty-five or forty minutes, basting all the time. Dish up on a hot dish. Remove the herbs. Drain off the superfluous grease, and add a gill of stock to the gravy remaining;