149 Evening Dress pretty muslin ones in the afternoon. Remnants of these are often to be picked up so cheaply, that the sum of 12s. should well provide half- a-dozen blouses for summer, and two for winter wear. Then the muslin ones could be worn out at home in the winter evenings. For boots and shoes I do not think we can set aside less than ^1, and this must include all needful repairs. For underclothing £1 must be spent, and for corsets 10s. A winter’s petticoat of stout moreen will cost 4s., three summer petticoats, 2s. nd. each, say roughly, 10s. Gloves will cost at least 12s. a year. Mittens must be worn for evening dress, and washing white woollen ones for winter everyday wear. Stockings will be another 10s. A best winter hat or toque will cost, say 7s. lid., and a best summer hat the same. While a sailor felt hat for everyday winter wear, and a straw sailor for summer, may generally be had for is. 1 id. each, say 4s. the two. This will leave us with 30s. in hand for all other requisites, such as sunshades, umbrellas, handkerchiefs, ribbons, and odds and ends for renovations of all sorts. Evening- Dress. This is a vexed question, and the best solution I can offer is a simply made “picture” dress in the Georgian style This is never out of fashion or dowdy, and if well fitted will always hold its own even in a room full of well and smartly dressed women. It should be of black, and worn with a white or cream-coloured muslin fichu, made with deep frills, and a knot of flowers in front. The skirt plain and very slightly trained. The bodice slightly pointed, with tight-fitting elbow sleeves of its own material, finished with deep frills of the same. As to material, black satin merveilleux at is. nd. per yard would be the smartest and nicest. Twelve yards will fashion the dress ; whilst black nun’s veiling at is. id. per yard is the cheapest. Ten yards of this will be required ; it is only of narrow double width. The muslin for the fichu costs 6fd. per yard. Four yards would be ample for fichu and frills. In summer the black sleeves of the gown might be taken out, and elbow sleeves of the muslin substituted. A knot of roses can be had for 6|d. Altogether the dress need not cost more than £\, 10s. if made at home, and with care should last at least two or three years. Evening- Cloak. A winter coat will not be required every year, so that one year a summer coat could be got or an evening cloak. I recently saw a very pretty evening cloak which had been made from a 6s. remnant of dark grey serge. It was circular in shape, lined with scarlet mer- cerised sateen over an interlining of domette, and had a hood, deep puritan collar, and long strings, lined and faced with silver grey British silk, and it was both pretty, warm, and quite in good taste.