137 The Baby’s Bottles This is the way to go to work. Have a comfortable fire if the weather is at all chilly. Have the bath ready, and put the cold water in first. This should always be insisted upon, as it is the only way to avoid accidents should the children be left alone in the room for a minute by any chance. All the clothes should be at hand, and aired well, and the face towel, the soap, sponge, powder, vaseline, &c., should be in readiness. Unless a hot bath has been specially ordered by the doctor, the water should not exceed 950 Fahr. Use a bath thermometer; these only cost ioid. each, and are invaluable. Use a separate sponge for the face. Do not use soap for the face at all in the case of small babies. Wear a mackintosh apron, over this a flannel apron, and over this an apron of Turkish towelling, and take particular care to sponge the eyes, ears, and nose well. Wash the face first with the sponge; a bit of very soft flannel is best for the soaping process. Soap the baby on your lap, and older children standing up in the bath. When putting the baby in the bath take care to support his back well with the hand, and let him kick and splash for all he is worth. Sponge very thoroughly, and take special care to well soap and cleanse all creases. Support the back well, and take hold of the little heels when lifting baby out of the bath. Then wrap the Turkish apron well round him. Dry gently but very very thoroughly. Older children will be all the better for a brisk rubbing down. Then powder well. Fuller’s earth, starch powder, or boracic powder are almost equally good, but violet powder should not be used, as the cheap violet powder is often extremely injurious. A very young baby should be turned as little as possible when it is washed and dressed. For any roughness or redness of skin, or chafing, use pure vaseline, a little home-made cold cream, or lanoline, and then powder. Ordinary pins should never be used in a baby’s clothing, but safety- pins in all cases. When there are older children the little nursemaid should bathe them, and the mother the baby ; the nursemaid should be taught to bathe him also, in order that should occasion arise she may do so properly. The Baby’s Bottles. Should he be what is known as a “ bottle baby,” the mother should always see to the bottles herself. The very best way to ensure perfect cleanliness with regard to these is to have two basins always in use ; enamelled bowls are the best, one for washing out the bottles, and the other filled with clear cold water, for leaving them in soak. Well rinse and wash the bottle the instant it has been used ; then place it in the bowl of cold water. Turn the teat inside out, and wash very thoroughly in warm water, and then leave it in the bowl until required. A pinch of borax may be added to the first water, to ensure a greater degree of cleanliness. If there is any doubt, however slight, with regard to the purity of the water supply, let the bottle soak in cold boiled water, to be on the safe side. If the nursemaid is taught and permitted to feed baby and prepare