How to Knead Continue to knead until the paste ceases to adhere to the sides or the basin and to the hands. If it does not do this after prolonged kneading too much water has been used, and a little more flour should be added with the hands and worked in. How to Knead. The best way to knead the dough is this. Take up a handful simultaneously from either side, bring this to the middle, then knead with the fists doubled, and your whole weight thrown upon them. The kneading must be continued until the entire dough can be taken out in a firm clean lump. When this is done, the basin must be floured, and the dough replaced. Make a couple of deep cuts, length- wise and across the paste. Cover the bowl with a clean blanket and let it stand in a warm corner of the kitchen until it has risen to the top of the bowl, or to twice its usual size ; the time needful for this varies, as in hot w'eather the dough rises far more quickly than in cold. From to hours is an average. In winter I have known the dough left to rise all night. When risen sufficiently, the dough should be placed in greased tins : only cut just sufficient dough to half fill the tins. Leave the tins in a warm, not a hot, place for from twelve to fifteen minutes before placing them in the oven. The Oven. The oven for baking should be hot to commence with, and then the oven damper should be altered, in order that the heat may be diminished, otherwise the loaves will be burnt on the outside and raw in the inside. Allow sixty minutes for all 2 lb. loaves in a moderately hot oven. Thin flat caked-shaped rolls require less time. The best thing to make bread in is one of the deep red earthen- ware bread pans of large size. Wash the hands first in very hot, and then in cold water, when about to make bread. Spice Loaf. This, which is so excellent for children, can be made at the same time as the bread is baked. To 2 lbs. of the dough allow 4 ozs. of clarified dripping, 4 ozs. of currants, 4 ozs. of stoned and chopped raisins, 4 ozs. coarse sugar and r oz. of chopped candied peel ; mix and knead well, and bake for an hour in a moderately hot oven. 8, K