150 How to Dress the Children It could be copied in almost any hue of is. a yard serge. Those who have to dress upon means so small as these should not aim at being in the fashion to any great extent. Let them buy few things, but those few as good as they can get. Wear colours always in the fashion, not “ the latest shade out.” Have neat shoes and gloves. The hair should always be smartly done, and the gowns always immaculately brushed and in repair, and of styles and hues that suit, and then even those who can spend but £10 will always be well dressed. How to Dress the Children. This is by no means an easy task upon a small sum. Boots and shoes should be good and strong. In summer sandals are better and cheaper. For little girls the John Noble knockabout frocks in any hue of serge, scarlet for winter is perhaps the best, are far and away the cheapest. For little boys, smartly cut knickers of blue serge, and a knitted jersey, scarlet, or any colour most becoming, are perhaps the best. Older lioys can have sailor suits, or manly ones modelled on their father’s, as taste may dictate. For best, white washing serge frocks for quite small children are nice and easily laundried, or serge coats brightly hued and warmly lined in winter, and little simple ginghams or cotton in summer. Muslins are to be avoided, unless you have the time and the know- ledge necessary for getting them up properly. Sailor hats for boys and girls alike in summer ; and in winter smart cloth caps or tammys for the boys. Tammys for the girls too for every day, and big flopping felts simply trimmed with a bow of ribbon for best. No gloves in summer except for best, and washing wool ones in winter is another good rule. Underclothing-. This for boys or girls is best of wool or flannel, both from the point of hard wear and health. For little girls in the winter knickers to match the serge dress skirt are also smart and warm. Overalls both for girls and boys are best of either Holland or Turkey twill. Blue linen which has so much to recommend it, is too expensive if good, and the cheaper sorts are useless. For best party dresses for little girls, white Japanese silk, 9f-d. a yard, is the best and cheapest, and when well washed always looks like new; while for a tiny boy, white washing serge always looks well. If the hands and nails are well kept, the hair well brushed and glossy, and the little one well groomed generally, a child is sure to be well dressed, for childhood with the charm of innocence has a beauty that is all its own.