Savoury Rice 46 in a small stewpan, add to it an ounce (or more according to the amount of fish) of finely-grated cheese ; any sort will do. Let the cheese just melt, skimming all the time, then add the fish, and con- tinue to stir until very hot. Have ready some squares of hot buttered toast; arrange the mixture on these. Dust with pepper and salt, and send to table at once. A little made mustard, about half a teaspoonful, may be added to the cheese if hot things are liked. Any pieces of dry cheese may be grated and used for cooking which would otherwise be thrown away. Savoury Rice. Take from 4 to 8 ozs. of any sort of cold boiled or fried white fish; free it from skin and bone, and flake it with a fork. Reserve it. Place 2 ozs. of either butter or clarified beef dripping in a clean deep stewpan. As soon as it melts add to it a finely-minced shalot and half a pound of well-boiled dry rice. Fry all together for ten minutes, stirring all the while with a folk in order to prevent burning. Add the fish and two teaspoonfuls of tomato catsup. Make very hot, still stirring. Then pile up in the centre of a hot dish, garnish with some savoury crusts or with a border of fried potatoes, and send to table at once. By “fried potatoes,” cold potatoes thinly sliced, dusted with a little finely-minced parsley and fried in butter, are meant. Place the butter in the pan first. Let the butter melt. Then add the potatoes, and fry till of a light golden brown hue here and there. Potato Cakes. Take a sufficient number of cold boiled potatoes ; mash them well. Add pepper and salt to taste, a bit of butter about the size of a walnut, and a well-beaten egg. If the mixture is very stiff a little milk may be added. Form into small rounds, and bake in a moderately hot oven until of a light golden brown. If you handle them carefully these cakes may be split and buttered, and are then exceedingly good. For purposes of economy the egg may be omitted and milk only used. Egg- Pie. Boil six eggs till very hard. Throw them into cold water and take off the shells. Put the eggs into slices and reserve on a plate. Mash some cold potatoes with a little butter, pepper, and salt, and a wine- glassful of milk ; skim milk will do. Spread a layer of potato in the bottom of a small pie dish. Have ready a sliced fried onion, drained free from the fat it was fried in. Spread a little of this on the potato, add some of the sliced egg and a little white sauce; cold white sauce which has been left over will do excellently. Repeat the layers until the dish is full, and finish with a layer of potato. Scatter bread crumbs thickly on top, put a few bits of butter here and there, and place in the oven until very hot, by which time the top of the pie should be of a delicate golden brown. Take out and serve.