19 What Should be Set Aside for Rent great saving in cleaning materials, no stairs, and no steps. One good servant in a flat is equal to two or three in a house. It is far easier to do without a servant in a flat. Followers are practically an impossibility, or at any rate the opportunities for receiving kitchen visitors are few. Where there is a nursery the little ones are prac- tically under the eye of the mother all day and all night. It is, finally, a great advantage to know exactly the cost of rent, rates, and taxes, a thing impossible with a house in these days of ever-increasing rates. The chief disadvantages I have been able to discover in flats are these, that the greater part of the washing must be put out, and that unless one is careful to select a building with sound-proof floors, one is occasionally disturbed by noisy or quarrelsome neighbours, or persistent piano thumpers. Rents of Flats. Where there are only husband and wife to be considered, it is possible to get a flat of three or four rooms from ios. a week and upwards. I know of some really excellent little flats in Kensington which are to be had from ios. 6d. and 12s. 6d. a week, consisting of three rooms and bath-room, &c. ; and Kensington is one of the dearest neighbourhoods in London. Rent in Provincial Towns. In the great provincial towns of England, I am credibly informed, the rent for flats runs somewhat higher than this on an average. And at least from ^35 to ^40 would have to be paid for similar accommodation. What Should be Set Aside for Rent. This is a very difficult question to answer, but at the very outside, out of an income of £zoo or ^250 I should say not more than ^40, and as much less as can possibly be managed. Houses under £,10 a year rent do not pay rates and taxes, with the exception, of course, of the usual water rate, gas, &c., and I think that whenever circum- stances permit, one of these should be taken. For those whose work lies in a provincial town it is sometimes possible to get a little country cottage a few miles out, at a very moderate rent. I have seen such houses advertised in the columns of the daily papers, from as low as 4s. 6d. a week, or ^10 a year and upwards, and in almost every case there was a good garden. My advice resolves itself into this : save over the house-rent in preference to everything else, whenever you can, short, of course, of living in an insanitary neighbourhood or one with any special dis- advantage. The money thus saved will give you far more solid satis- faction than would a fine house a little, even if it be but a very little, beyond your means. Of course for children a house with a good garden is a great advantage in many ways, but this applies only to those who live in the provinces or the outlying suburbs, since the average town garden is but too often a garden in name only.