53 To Clarify Fat Puree a la Reine. Place a quart of stock in a deep clean saucepan. Make very hot. Mix a heaped tablespoonful of barley flour to a paste with a little cold stock. Add to the soup; stir all one way until it thickens, then con- tinue to stir for five or six minutes. Add pepper and salt to taste. Strain through a heated gravy strainer into a hot soup tureen, and serve with fried crusts. Fried Crusts. Cut a slice of stale bread not quite half an inch thick. Cut off the crust; cut the bread into minute squares. Place half a pound of clarified dripping in a clean deep stewpan. Let the fat melt, and wait until a faint blue smoke rises. Then add the crusts a few at a time, and fry to a light golden hue. Take out with a fish slice, drain on clean paper, and use as directed. To Clarify Fat. I have frequently referred to clarified dripping in the foregoing recipes. This is how to clarify it:— Save the fat until you have a basin half full. Then pour over the basin containing the fat enough absolutely boiling water to fill it. Place it in the larder. When perfectly cold the cake of fat will be found floating on the top of the water. If the fat is still very full of brown specks it is what is technically known as still dirty, and the clarifying process must be repeated again, and iyet again, until it is fit for use. The under side may be lightly scraped with a knife in case any impurities still remain. Fat should be strained through a clear fine gravy strainer directly it has been used, and it can then be used again and again indefinitely so long as it keeps clean. How to Fry in Deep Fat. The absolute novice can fry to perfection at the first attempt if she will follow the directions here given. Take sufficient clarified fat to fill a deep saucepan at least half full when melted. Let the fat melt, and then wait until all bubbling has ceased, and the fat is quite still. By this time a thin blue smoke should be rising from it, and now is the time to fry. Add the articles to be fried, a very few at a time, and fry till of a light golden brown. Then take out quickly, drain carefully on clean kitchen paper, and reserve on a hot dish until all has been fried. Then serve at once. Such things as potatoes and artichoke chips must be well dried or else they will not fry. Fish must be egged and bread-crumbed or floured, and so must cutlets if they are to fry properly.