66 Irish Stew made with Mutton Pieces Giblet Pies. Giblets cooked in either of the foregoing ways, if covered with a plain short crust, will make delicious meat pies. Note that in all cases when making meat pies a vent must be cut in the top of the pie to allow the steam to escape. Irish Stew made with Mutton Pieces. Take half a pound of mutton pieces, two pounds of peeled pota- toes. Slice half of them thinly, and cut the other pound into neat quarters. Peel and slice thinly three or four very large onions. Place a layer of these at the bottom of a deep stewpan. Sprinkle over them a little salt and pepper, then put a layer of the meat cut into neat smallish pieces. Repeat the layers of potato, onions, and meat until all are used up, and let the top layer be of quartered potatoes. Add half a pint of cold stock or water, cover the pan tightly, and simmer very gently for an hour and a half. Every now and then the stew should be stirred gently in order to avoid burning. Then dish up on a hot dish and send to table at once. To the above quantity of meat, potatoes, &c., allow one teaspoonful of white pepper and a teaspoonful of salt. This stew may be made more substantial by the addition of four ozs. of well-washed rice or barley. Italian Stew.' Take 2 lbs. of mutton pieces, wash and dry them well. Place an oz. of clarified dripping in a clean stewpan ; as soon as it melts add to it an onion peeled and sliced, half a pound of tomatoes thinly sliced, the mutton, and as much garlic as will go on the point of a knife. Fry all well together for ten minutes. Then add four ozs. of rice and half a pint of water. Cover the pan tightly. Draw it to one side of the fire, and simmer very slowly until the meat is thoroughly cooked and tender. Then thicken with an oz. of flour and 5 oz. of butter kneaded together. Add pepper and salt to taste, and stir till of the consistency of cream. Make very hot, and serve with baked potatoes, handed separately. When tomatoes are 2d. and 3d. a lb. this is one of the daintiest stews it is possible to make. Veal in Milanaise Fashion. Take 2 lbs. of veal pieces, wash and dry them well. Place an oz. of clarified dripping in a clean deep stewpan. As soon as it melts add to it the veal, a large onion peeled and thinly sliced, as much garlic as will go on the point of a small knife, and a heaped tea- spoonful of chopped parsley. Fry all together for six or seven minutes. Then add just enough stock or water to cover the meat, place the lid on, and stew till tender. Then add pepper and salt to taste, thicken with an oz. of flour, and stir till of the consistency of cream. Add from 2 to 4 ozs. of freshly-cooked macaroni cut into one-inch lengths. Dish up on a hot dish and serve at once, accom- panied by baked potatoes.