How to Turn out the Drawing-Room 123 How to Turn Out the Drawing-Room. Pin up all the curtains carefully. Move all the furniture, except such things as cabinets or the piano, out of the room if possible, or into the middle of the room. Cover them with dust-sheets of un- bleached calico, at 2fd. per yard. Place all small ornaments on sofa, with cover over them. Blacklead the grate first, then polish the fireirons : if they are brass or copper, use Globe polish for this ; if they are of black iron, use a very little paraffin on a clean duster, and polish. If the brass or copper fender is lacquered, polish it well with a leather until it shines ; if the lacquer is dirty, wash it with a little Hudson’s soap on a bit of house flannel, dry it, and polish it thoroughly. If the lacquer has worn off, clean it vigorously with Globe polish, using very little of this, and not letting it get into the corners or in- terstices, where it will turn green and become unsightly. If the fender, or grate, or firejrons are steel, clean them with a little finely-powdered bath-brick on a duster damped with paraffin or Colza oil, but do not use these near a fire. Then rub till bright with a soft old cloth, and polish with a leather. If the hearth is tiled up the sides only, wipe with a damp cloth, and then polish with a dry one. If the hearth is an open one, and tiled at the back as well as the sides, and has been used, it should be well washed with warm water and a little Sapolio on a bit of house flannel. Sprinkle the carpet with tea leaves or damp salt, and sweep it well with a stiff broom, and the polished surround with a soft one, going well into the corners. Then leave the room and get on with preparing the lunch. Go back to drawing-room when the dust has settled and wash the paint. If it is ordinary paint, use a little yellow soap and plenty of tepid water. Dry thoroughly with a very soft cloth. If the paint is varnished, use a damp cloth if there are any marks to be removed ; otherwise, dust with a dry duster. Then dust the pictures—the frames with a feather broom, the glasses with a very clean, dry duster. If the surround is stained, polish it with a little camphor wax. Put a very little of this on a pad of house flannel, rub it well in, and then polish it with another pad until it shines again. Then dust the furniture very carefully with an old silk duster ; if it requires polishing, use a very little of Adam’s furniture cream, and then polish with silk duster. Take care that the cream does not get on to the upholstery. Replace the furniture. Brush the sofa lightly with a little furniture whisk ; and, if it is buttoned, go down into each button with a duster over the point of a finger. If the mirror is gilt-framed,, dust with a soft cloth and a feather duster. If it is very dirty, a little stout used on a clean duster will be the best remedy. Then wash or dust and replace all the ornaments, &c. If the mantelpiece marble is very old and dirty, make a paste with whitening and water, spread it over before the room is turned out, and