CHAPTER II 18 Choosing the Home Finding a house — Advantages of flats—Rent of flats—Rent in provincial towns—Country rents—Wording an agreement— Drains — Rates and taxes — Summary of advice—The kitchen range. Finding- a House. The two chief things to be considered when about to start house- keeping are the house and the furniture. Before going into the question of ways and means, then, let us speak of these. With regard to the actual house and locality, and the amount to be set aside for house-rent, it is very difficult to lay down any definite rule, or even to offer very practical advice, because so much must depend upon the neighbourhood chosen. If, for example, the exi- gencies of a man’s work oblige him to live in an expensive neighbour- hood, where house-rent is dear, a far larger proportion of income must be spent upon actual rent and taxes than if a cheaper locality could be chosen. Advantag-es of Flats. Some neighbourhoods abound in flats, and for those who have to manage upon very limited means a flat is in many ways better than a house. In a flat everything is under one’s own eye, in a house it is not; and in these days of the servant difficulty—an ever-increasing one, alas !—if one is servantless for a time in a flat it is after all only a minor matter, while in a house it is often a very serious one. Many people with families object to flats on the score that they are not so healthy for children; but here again, to the mother who cannot afford the services of a trained nurse, it is an enormous advantage to have the little ones directly under her own eye both night and day. In a flat, too, there is no danger of falling down stairs, as there is in a house, if the babies are left to themselves for a few minutes ; while as regards fresh air, if the windows are left open night and day as they should be, it is not possible for the rooms to become very stuffy. Againt, here is far less work in a flat than in the average house, so that the maidservant or the mother is free to take the little ones out for the whole afternoon. Briefly, I should say the chief advantages of a flat are these : Less furniture is required. A flat is more easily kept clean. There is a