80 How to Make Bread Golden Custard. Take a sufficient number of slices from a loaf of stale bread, free them from crust, and cut them into long narrow fingers. Fry these, a few at a time, in boiling fat. Take out, drain, arrange neatly in a pie dish. Pour over them just enough golden syrup to cover them. Make a custard thus : whisk up an egg with a spoonful of sugar ; add to it half a pint of nearly boiling skim milk, whisk well, and pour over the pudding. Bake in a moderate oven until set. Then serve at once. Jam or Treacle Tart. Roll out sufficient paste to cover a tartlet tin. Bake in a mode- rately hot oven until just done. Then fill the centre with jam or treacle. Return the tart to the oven, and bake for another six or eight minutes. Serve. Brown Betty. Add half an ounce of stale bread crumbs and the juice of half a lemon to the golden syrup used to fill the tart. Note that lemon juice should always be first carefully strained. Banana Custard. Peel and slice six bananas thinly. Beat up an egg in a deep jug with half a pint of skim milk. Add sifted sugar to taste. Place the jug in a deep saucepan half full of boiling water. Stir the contents of the jug until they thicken and are of the consistency of cream, then pour them over the sliced bananas. Leave till cold, and then serve. This is a nice sweet for Sunday suppers. How to Make Bread. If the housewife is strong enough, or possesses a servant willing to be taught, a very great economy can be effected by making bread at home—a twofold economy, for not only will the bread go further, but it is better for health and digestion. Take a stone of flour and well mix with it two ounces of fine salt free from lumps. Make a deep hole in the middle of the flour. Take four pennyworth of German yeast, put it in a basin, add to it a teaspoonful of sifted sugar, mix well together with a spoon, and add rather better than a pint of tepid water. Mix well, pour the mixture into the hole in the middle of the flour, and add to it a little flour from the sides, just enough to make to a creamy batter. Let the chair on which the mixing bowl is placed stand in a warm corner for from ten to fifteen minutes. Then mix in vigorously the rest of the flour, adding by degrees more tepid water as it is required. Some flour will take up more water than others ; from four to four and a half pints, inclusive of what is used to mix the yeast, is, however, generally sufficient. Enough should be used to mix the flour to a fairly soft paste.