76 Carrots with Gravy Cauliflower in the Polish Fashion. This is a cheap and delicious way of preparing cauliflower. Boil a large cauliflower in salted water till tender, but take care that it does not break, or the appearance of the dish will be spoilt. When done drain it very carefully, and place in a hot oven for a couple of minutes in order that the moisture may dry off. Meanwhile, place from i oz. to 2 ozs. (according to the size of the cauliflower) of butter in a clean deep stewpan. Directly it oils add to it as much finely-minced garlic as will go on the top of a small knife, and a teaspoonful of bread crumbs. Then add the cauliflower very carefully in order that it may not break. Turn it gently in the butter for five or six minutes, and let it get coated well with the bread crumbs, &c. Then dish up on a hot dish. Pour over it the butter, &c., remaining, garnish with finger croutons, and send to table at once. If the flavour of garlic is not liked, finely-minced shalot may be substituted for it. Carrots with Gravy. This is another nice and very cheaply-made dish. Take i lb. of young French carrots. Scrape them very thinly, wash them well, place them in a deep fireproof china dish, and add just enough well- flavoured stock to cover them. Add also an onion stuck with a clove. Place in a slow oven, and cook very gently until the carrots are quite tender. The time for this varies from three-quarters of an hour to an hour and a half. When done, strain off the liquor in which the carrots were cooked into a clean stewpan. There should be about half a pint of it. Thicken with i oz. of butter and i oz. of flour kneaded together and mixed to a paste with a little cold stock or water, and stir till of the consistency of cream. Make very hot ; add pepper and salt to taste, and a tiny pinch of sifted sugar. Pour over the carrots. Return to the oven for a few minutes in order to allow the sauce to just set. Then take out and serve as quickly as possible. Old carrots may also be cooked in this fashion, but they should be split and divided in fours, and considerably longer time must be allowed for the cooking process.