Lean Joints Eating Fat. Much too depends upon whether the family can or cannot eat fat. If fat is eaten, even in moderate quantities, by the whole of the house- hold, less lean meat is likely to be required, and much waste is avoided, since it is impossible to use pieces left upon plates, See., for rendering down, or other purposes. Some people, and children espe- cially, have, however, a positive loathing for fat in any shape or form, and when this is the case it is cruel to attempt to force them to eat it. Coaxing and gentle persuasion may and should be tried, but if the child persists in the dislike, nothing further should be done. Lean Joints. Sometimes this aversion to fat characterises a whole family, and it will be found by far the cheapest and most economical plan to pur- chase joints of the leanest possible description, such as the silverside, top ribs, or flank of beef. The top ribs roast excellently, and silver- side and flank are delicious when braised or stewed. Mutton is more difficult to deal with, since, with the very limited means at our disposal, English mutton is quite out of the question, and New Zealand mutton is apt to be very fat. So too is the New Zealand lamb, but its fat is naturally far more delicate, and many people who cannot eat either beef or mutton fat will like that of lamb or pork, for although rich the latter is delicate also. When cold meat is to be hashed, it will be found the best and most economical plan to cut off first every particle of superfluous fat, which can then be rendered down, and used when clarified for frying, or for a dripping cake, hot tea cakes, See., Sec. In all these small ways money can be saved, for the expense of buying lard, always a costly article, is thus done away with alto- gether, while properly clarified beef dripping is quite its equal as a frying medium. Other Economies. Another way in which the butcher’s bill may be kept down is by buying beef pieces when a steak pudding is needed, instead of beef- steak, or by getting a large piece of silverside and cutting off a slice, which when cut again into pieces of a suitable size will serve perfectly for a pudding if slowly cooked. Then again a very great economy may be effected by the way in which the various joints bought are divided. A large joint need not necessarily be cooked and eaten at once, or served up day after day cold, hashed, or minced, until everybody is heartily sick of the very sight of it. Division of a Joint. If a forequarter of mutton is purchased on the Saturday, it should be divided thus : The shoulder carefully cut out (the butcher will do this for you if you ask him) will do for dinner, roasted on the Sunday. 3i