[ 42 ] HIE HOG mortification, uo benefit can be obtained from medicine, and they may be looked upon as the precursors of a speedy dissolution. HIERA PICRA is made by mixing together 4 ozs. of aloes and 1 oz. of white canella, both pounded very finely. It is purgative talien in doses of from 10 to 20 grains. HILL'S BALSAM OF HONEY. Dis- solve balsam of tolu, 1 oz.; storax, 1 drachm ; opium, ^ drachm ; and honey, 4 ozs., in 16 fluid ozs. of spirit of wine. Dose, a small tea- spoonful to relieve the lungs in coughs and colds. HILL'S ESSENCE OF BARDANA. Dis- solve 1 oz, of gum guaiacum in 3 fluid ozs. of spirit of wine. HIPPOCRAS. Take 1 oz. of cinnamon, 2 drachms of ginger, 2 dwts. of cloves, nutmeg and galangal 1 dwt. of each. Pound these together well, infuse them in a pint of red or white wine and a pint of malmsey, and to this add 1 lb. of the best loaf sugar. These proportions will make a quart of the liquor. HIPPOCRAS, RED. Pour a gallon of claret into an earthen pan, put to it a blade of mace, some long pepper, 4 grains of white pepper, 1 drachm of cinnamon, and a little cori- ander seed, all bruised separately ; add 2 lbs. of powder sugar and a dozen sweet almonds pounded. HIPPOCRAS, WHITE. Take a gallon of white wine, 2 ozs. of cinnamon, 2 lbs. of sugar, a little mace (all in powder), a few peppercorns, and a couple of lemons cut in quarters. When these have infused some time strain the liquor three or four times throagh a jelly bag. It may be flavoured with musk or ambergris by tying a small quantity of either drug, beaten with a little sugar, in a piece of cloth, and putting it in the bag through which it is strained. HOARSENESS is generally the result of a cold or cough. [See Catarrh and Cccgh.) In addition these remedies may be tried :— One tea-spoonful of a mi.xture of equal parts of paregoric eli.xir and sweet spirit of nitre, taken at bedtime, will be found an admirable remedy for a long-standing cough or hoarseness. Or, I oz. of Spanish juice broken into small pieces, and boiled until dissolved in a pint and a half of water, along with 1 drachm of salt of tartar and ^ drachm of saffron. Half 9, tea-cupful to be taken whenever the cough is troublesome. Hoarseness sometimes arises from a relaxation of the throat, in which case a tonic gargle {see Gargle), or Cayenne lozenges may be used as a remedy. HOCK WINES. Hock wines are produced on the banks of the Rhine and the Moselle. They are generally used for dinner, being drier and more aromatic than the French white wines ; and the best of them have a peculiar flavour much relished by good judges, and called by the natives gdre. By some they are considered acid, but this is only the case with the inferior sorts, or when there has been a bad vintage, for the produce of warm seasons is quite free from defect, and always commands the highest prices. HOFFMAN'S ANODYNE LIQUOR. Mix together 1 oz. of sulphuric ether, .2 ozs. of rectified spirit of wine, and f drachm of ethereal oil. HOG'S BLOOD. Cut an onion into dice, fry it in either butter or lard, and when done pour in the blood ; stir it well, add boiled rice or barley, and season it very highly with pepper and salt. HOG'S CHEEKS: To Dry. Having cut off the snout and taken out the brains, split the head, and remove the upper bone; rub the cheeks well with salt, and let them stand ; the next day rub away that, and add fresh salt. The following day cover the head with ^ oz. of saltpetre, 2 ozs. of common salt, and ^ lb. of coarse sugar. Turn it frequently. When it has lain thus ten days take it out, and smoke it like bacon. HOGS' EARS, FARCED. Parboil two or three pairs of hogs' ears; then take an anchovy, some sage, parsley, ^ lb. of suet (all chopped small), bread crumbs, and pepper; bind these together with the yolk of an egg, stuff the ears with it, fry them in batter to a nice colour, pour away all the fat, and put them into a stewpan, with half a pint of rich gravy, a glass of Madeira, three spoonsful of mustard, apiece of butter rolled in flour, an onion, and a little pepper ; cover the pan closely, and stew- gently for half an hour, shaking it occasionally. When done take out the onion, lay the ears in a dish, and pour the sauce over them. HOG'S HEAD. Put ahead into some tongue pickle, and when it has remained sufficiently long take it out, and boil it till the bones w-ill come out with ease ; then skin, bone, and chop the meat whilst hot; season it with pepper (black and white), nutmeg, and salt if necessary; lay part of the skin at the bottom of a potting- pan, press in the meat, cover it with the re- mainder of the skin, put on a weight, and let it stand till quite cold; then turn it out, boil the liquor it was dressed in with some vinegar, skim it well, aTid when cold put the head into it. HOG'S HEAD LIKE BRAWN. Wash a head thorouf,hly, boil it till all the bones will come out, and then let it cool. Put the inside of the cheeks together, with salt between, and the ears round ; lay them in a cloth, and press them into a round pan; put a weight on, and