[ 559 ] WHI WIG Buppuration. It is commonly divided into four species, •\vhicli perhaps merely differ in degree. The first species is the mildest, and locates itself at the side or root of the nail. In this species the inllammation seems to penetrate no deeper than the true skin, and when it termi- nates in suppuration the matter is confined immediately below the cuticle. Should the matter find its way beneath the nail, the patient has to endure a great deal of pain from its con- finement in so unyielding a part. In the second species the inflammation pene- trates below the true skin near the extremity of the finger. It creates much pain, especially in very young people. It eventually suppurates ; but it requii'es a good deal of time before the matter discharges itself. In the third species the inflammation is seated within the sheath v.'hich covers the flexor tendons. When suppuration takes place in this species the matter finds great difficulty in passing to the surface of the skin, in con- sequence of which it is found to pass along the sheaths of tendons, even to the wrist sometimes. In the fourth species the membrane covering the bone, and even the bone itself sometimes become inflamed; but in this case the inflam- mation and suppuration are more limited than in the last species. In both the third and fourth species the pain is extreme, and the inflammation sometimes r^uns so high as to swell both the hand and arm. Much fever is sometimes excited, and we have known even delirium to attend. This disease is frequently produced by punctures, or other injuries of the like kind : we have known it several times produced by the sharp fin of a fish, and especially the cat fish. It rarely fails to suppurate; and we still more rarely have it in our power to prevent it. Several plans, however, have been proposed for this purpose, some of which are said to have been attended with success, such as holding the finger in very warm water, vinegar, or lye ; poultices of the white of an egg and honey, of lye, of brown soap, &c. As this complaint almost always runs on to suppuration, the sooner this is promoted the better, especially in the first two species. For this purpose we believe there is nothing better than the good old-fashioned bread-and-milk poultice. This must be repeated every few hours until the matter forms. When this happens it should be discharged by opening the abscess as soon as it becomes evident. The wound may be dressed with simple cei'ate. In the third and fourth species much more trouble and pani are experienced. Blisters ai'e said to have relieved this deep-seated inflam- mation : we believe this has happened but rarely. Much patience must be exercised, and suffering endured, before the matter in these cases will find its way to the surface; and sometimes much mischief is done to the parts below and around it before this happens. The bone and tendons are killed, and the usefulness of the hand is sonletimes destroyed by per- mitting this complaint to run its course. ■ On this account it is considered best to cut down to the part, in the direction of the finger, before suppuration has taken place, or as quickly after as possible, and not to wait for the tedious and painful operation of spontaneous opening. By this plan immediate relief is always experienced; for, if suppuration has not taken place, a wound which will quickly heal is substituted for an untoward inflammation, which will eventually terminate in it. If matter has formed it will now be discharged, and the parts will readily heal by very common attention—• the wound may be poulticed for two or tlu'ee days after the incision has been made, and then dressed with simple cerate. If the bone or tendon has sustained injury the progress of the cure will be very slow. Bone may exfoliate, or tendon slough. The portions of bone should be removed by forceps when loose, and the pro- truding tendon cut olf as it may appear. If proud flesh shoot up through the external opening, this must be removed by caustic, or the opening enlarged. WIDGEONS: To Roast. They should be taken up with the gravy in. Baste with butter, and sprinkle a little flour over them before they are tal;en up; pour good gravy over them, and serve with sliallot sauce in a boat. WIDGEONS, COLLARED. Bone the widgeons, cut them in halves, and marinate them for twelve hours in a little white wine, with cloves, mace, pepper, and salt; then take them out, dry them, season them with pepper and chopped sage, dip them in egg, and turn them on their sides; add two onions chop])ed up, then roll them in collars, and boil them in good stock, white wine, whole pepper, and mace. Tliey must be kept in this pickle. VVIDGEONS, HASHED. Half roast them; when served, slice the breast, strew on pepper and salt, pour on a little red wine, and squeeze a little lemon juice over. WIGS : To Make. Rub J lb. of butter into 2 lbs. of flour, and with about half a pint of warm cream and half as much yeast make it into a light paste, and set it before the fire. Wiiile rising, grate in a nutmeg, with some beaten mace and cloves, 4- oz. of caraways, and ^ lb. of sugar; work the whole well, and make