TIN [ 492 ] TIN of bronze and bell-metal: by immersing thin plates of iron in melted tin they become coated, and are then termed bloclc-tin or latten, which is manufactured into tea-canisters and various culinary utensils. Tin is likewise of use in medicine, both in the form of filings and in a state of powder, especially as a I'crwii/'ifr/e; it has often success- fully expelled the tape-worm, which had resisted the power of many other drugs ; but the dose varying from a few grains to 1 oz., it is one of those remedies which must be prescribed by the experienced practitioner. TINCTURES. Aromatic Tincture. In- fuse 'ii ozs. of Jamaica pepper in two pints of brandy, without heat, for a few days; then strain off the tincture. This simple tincture will suf- ficiently answer all the intentions of the more costly preparations of this kind. It is rather too hot to be taken by itself, but is very proper for mixing with such medicines as might other- Avise prove too cold for the stomach. . Astringent Tincture. Digest 2 ozs. of gum kino in a pint and a half of brandy for eight days ; afterwards strain it for use. This tincture, though not generally known, is a good astringent medicine. With this view 1 oz. or moi'e of it may be taken three or four times a day. Camphorated Spirit of Wine. Dissolve 1 oz. of camphor in a pint of rectified spirits. This solution is chiefly employed as an embro- cation in bruises, palsies, the chronic rheuma- tism, and for preventing gangrenes. The above quantity of camphor, dissolved in ^ lb. of the volatile aromatic spirit, makes Ward's essence. Compound Tincture of the Bark. Take of Peruvian bark 2 ozs.; Seville orange-peel and cinnamon, of each ^ oz. Let the bark be powdered, and the other ingredients bruised; then infuse the wliole in a pint and a half of brandy for five or six days in a close vessel; afterwards strain off the tincture. The dose is from 1 drachm to 3 or 4 drachms every fifth or sixth hour. It may be given in any suitable liquor, and occasionally sharpened with a few drops of the spirits of vitriol. This tincture is not only beneficial in intermitting fevers, but also in the slow, nervous, and putrid kinds, especially towards tlieir decline. Compound Tincture of Senna. Take of senna 1 oz. ; jalap, coriander seed, and cream of tartar, of each ^ oz. Infuse them in a pint and a half of French brandy for a week, then strain the tincture, and add to it 4 ozs. of fine sugar. This is an agreeable purge, and answers all the purposes of the elixir salutis and of Daffy's elixir. The dose is from J oz. to 2 ozs. or 3 ozs. Sacred Tincture, or Tincture of Hiera PicRA. Take of socotrine aloes in powder 1 oz.; Virginian snake-root and ginger, of each 2 drachms. Infuse in a pint of mountain wine and half a pint of brandy for a week, fi'equently shaking the bottle ; then strain off the tincture. This is a safe and useful purge for persons of a languid and phlegmatic habit; but it is thought to have better effects taken in small doses as a laxative. The dose as a purge is from 1 oz. to 2 ozs. Tincture of the Balsam of Toi.u. Take of the balsam of tolu 1^ oz. ; rectified spirit of wine, 1 pint. Infuse in a gentle heat until the balsam is dissolved ; then strain the tincture. This tincture possesses all the virtues of the balsam. In coughs and other complaints of the breast a tea-spoonful or two of it may be taken on a bit of loaf sugar; but the best way of using it is in syrup. An ounce of the tinctm-e, properly mixed with 2 lbs. of simple syrup, will make what is commonly called the balsamic syrup. Tincture of Black Hellebore. Infuse 2 ozs. of the roots of black hellebore, bruised, in a pint of proof spirit for seven or eight days; then filter the tincture through jiaper. A scruple of cochineal may be infused along with the roots to give the tincture a colour. la obstructions of the menses a tea-spoonful of this tincture may be taken in a cup of camomile or pennyroj'al tea twice a day. Tinctuke of Myrrh and Aloes. Take of gum myrrh lioz.; hepatic aloes, 1 oz. Let them be reduced to a powder, and infused in two pints of rectified spirits for six days in a gentle heat; then strain the tincture. This is principally used by surgeons for cleansing foul ulcers, and restraining the progress of gan- grenes. It is also by some recommended as a proper application to green wounds. Tincture of Rhubarh. Take of rhubarb 2j ozs.; lesser cardamom seeds, ^ oz.; brandy, 2 pints. Digest for a weelt, and strain the tincture. Those who choose to have a vinous tincture of rhubarb may infuse the above in- gredients in a bottle of Lisbon wine, adding to it about 2 ozs. of proof spirits. If 4- oz. of gentian root and 1 drachm of Virginian snake root be added to the above ingredients, they will make the bitter tincture of rhubarb. All these tinctures are designed as stomachics and cor- roborants as well as purgatives. In weakness of the stomach, indigestion, laxity of the in- testines, fluxes, colicky, and such-like com- plaints, they are frequently of great service. The dose is from half a spoonful to three or four spoonsful or more, according to the cir- cumstances of the patient, and the purposes the tincture is intended to answer. Tincture of Spanish Flies. Take of Spanish