MUS MU S [ 9.18 ] division is mucli facilitated. Dose, 10 to 80 « grains. Artificial muslf, strongly resembling the real, may be formed by digesting 1^ fluid oz. of nitric acid for ten days upon 1 oz. of fetid • animal oil obtained by distillation ; to this is to be next gradually added 1 pint of rectified spirit, and the whole is then to be left to digest for one month. Or, drop 3J- fluid drachms of nitric acid upon 1 fluid drachm of rectified oil of amber : after standing twenty-four hours a black, resinous pellicle, exhaling the odour of musk, will be formed. MUSK FOR LIQUEURS. Take 2 grains of musk and J lb. of sugar, pound them in a mortar, and mix them well. Keep it in a closely stopped bottle. The quantity required of this is one pinch to four or five quarts of liqueur. Ambergris is prepared in a similar manner ; but, being less powerful than the musk, 4 grains is the proportion to } lb. of sugar. MUSTARD: To Keep. To keep mustard dissolve 3 ozs. of salt in a quart of boiling water, and pour it hot on 2 ozs. of scraped horseradish ; cover the jar very closely, and let it stand twenty-four hours ; then strain it, and mix it by degrees with the best flour of mustard and water well together till the whole is quite smooth, and of a proper thickness. Put it into a wide-mouthed bottle, and stop it closely. MUSTARD : To Make (1). Take some of the best flour of mustard, and mix it by degrees to a proper thickness with boiling water, rub- bing it extremely smooth ; add a little salt, keep it in a small jar closely covered, and only put as much into the mustard-pot as will be used in a few days. The mustard-pot should be daily wiped round the edges. MUSTARD: To Make (2). Mix by de- grees the flour of mustard with cold water in which horseradish has been boiled, and rub well together in a mortar tfll it is perfectly smooth; then keep it in a stone jar closely stopped, putting into your pot for table as much as will be wanted for immediate use. MUSTARD: To Make French. The mustard used for table by the French differs materially from that used in England; for vinegar, more or less, enters into the composi- tion, and the grain itself is not the same ; the finer sorts have also the addition of aromatic herbs. Some of the French mustards are very agreeable, particularly with cold meat. The common domestic mustard is made with the grain of seneve, a' mustard seed darker than the Eiiglish. It is ground up with vinegar on a stone slab, and put into pots for use : when herbs are used they are steeped with the vinegar with which the mustard is ground up. The choice of the herbs varies with the manu- facturers. Some use thyme, mint, tarragon, and garlic ; others make a different selection, and the flavour of the mustard will depend upon the taste with which one or more of them are combined. Tlie English cooks who wish to make French mustard must provide themselves with proper materials—the seneve tansy, or French mustard seed, which, being reduced to powder, should be mixed up with French vinegar also, which may be had of most oilmen or grocers. Any of the herbs may be used for giving the special zest required. White mustard seed is never used by the French at table, although great quantities of it are used medicinally. MUSTARD FOR IMMEDIATE USE. Take some mustard, and by degrees mix it quite smooth with new milk, adding a little cream. Mixed in this manner it will keep: it is very soft, and not in the least bitter. MUSTARD SAUCE. Put two glasses of stock, shallots shred small, salt, and pepper into a saucepan; let them boil for half an hour, then add a spoonful of mustard, stir it in well, and use the sauce when required. MUSTARD SEED, a few years since, was recommended and adopted veiy commonly as a medicine, and one who declared that he had greatly benefited by it wrote as follows:— " The mustard seed is always to be swallowed whole, not broken or masticated, and either alone or in a little water or other liquid, warm or cold, and the best general rules for taking it are the following:—Generally speaking, three doses should be taken every day without inter- mission ; the first about an hour before break- fast, the second about an hour after dinner, and the third either at bedtime or an hour before. Those who dine so late as six or seven o'clock should take the second dose at two or three o'clock in the afternoon, and the third about an hour after dinner. Each dose should contain that quantity which, in the wiiole, is fnund sufficient to produce a healthy evacuation of the bowels every day. Two or three large tea-spoonsful in each dose will generally produce this effect, though, with some constitutions, much smaller doses will answ'er the purpose; but, should that quantity fail, each dose may be increased to a table-spoonful, and in some instances a fourth table-spoonful may safely be added between breakfast and dinner. When this quantity fails to produce the desired effect on the bowels (a circumstance which very rarely occurs), it will be proper to assist the operation of the seed with a httle Epsom salts or other mild aperient, taken every morning, or every second or third morning, as occasion may re- quire, instead of the first dose of the seed, for the space of ten days or a fortnight, or such longer period as may be found necessary. And