[ 451 ] SOL SOR soles, and put it into the dish upon the force- meat ; pour in the liquor the eels were boiled in, put on the cover, and set it in the oven to bake of a nice brown. SOLES : To Carve. They are sent to table either fried or boiled ; but in either case they are to be cut right through the middle, bone and all, and a piece about a third or fourth part of the fish given to each guest; but this dis- tribution must be regulated by the size and other circumstances. Plaice and other fish may be divided in the same manner. SOLES : To Choose. The sole is one of the most delicate of our British fishes, on which account it has with many obtained the name of the " queen of the sea." The middling-sized fish are the best. By an old law of the Cinque Ports, which is not now acted upon, none were to be taken from the 1st of November to the 15th of March, which is a proof in what estima- tion this fish was held by our ancestors. When good soles are thick, and the belly of a cream colour ; but if the flesh be flabby, and there is a bluish tinge on the surface, the fish are of no value. They are in greatest perfection about midsummer. SOLES, BOILED. Be careful that the soles are thoroughly cleaned; then rub them over with lemon juice, set them on the fire in cold spring water with plenty of salt, and when they begin to boil put them aside to simmer very gently till done. Serve with anchovy sauce in a boat. You may, if you please, garnish your fish with parsley. SOLES, FRICASSEED. Fry them of a nice brown, drain them, take off' all the meat from a small sole, chop it fine, and mix it with a little grated bread, some lemon-peel, parsley chopped fine, pepper, salt, nutmeg, the yolk of an egg, and a little butter ; make this into little balls, and fry them. Put a little red wine in some good gravy, thicken with a little flour, boil it up, and add Cayenne and lemon juice; lay in the fish and balls, and simmer them a few minutes. Garnish with lemon. SOLES, FRIED. Take off the skin, rub the fish with the yolk of an egg, and then strew upon them some bread crumbs. Fry them in lard over a brisk fire till they are brown. Serva them up with plain butter, and garnish with green pickles. SOLES WITH MUSHROOMS. Put a quart of milk into a stewpan or fish kettle, with the same quantity of water, a bit of butter, salt, and lemon juice; then put in the soles, set the stewpan over a moderate fire, and let them simmer very gently till done; then take them up, place them on a cloth or napkin to imbibe all the liquor from them, lay them on a dish, and pour over them a good mushroom sauce. SOLES, STUFFED. Makeafarce of whiting or perch minced very small, mixed with butter, sweet herbs, and morels, kneaded together by yolks of eggs, and seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Having skinned and cleaned your soles, stuff them with this farce, rub them with butter, bread, and bake them. They may, if preferred, be dressed in equal quantities of stock and white wine. SOLOMON S BALM OF GILEAD. Mix together one pint of cardamoms, made with brandy instead of spirit of wine, and 1 oz. by measure of tincture of cantharides. SORES AND ULCERS. When an ulcer is in a perfectly healing state the appearances which it exhibits are as follow :—The fleshy granulations are of a florid colour ; the blood- vessels possess a considerable quantity of arterial blood, and the freedom of circulation produces this florid appearance. The granulations are equal on the surface of the sore, rising a little above the edges ; for it is necessary, in order that a sore should heal kindly, that the surface of the ulcer should be a little more elevated than the surrounding edges. The surface of the sore secretes matter which has a milky appear- ance, or rather the appearance of cream. The edge is whitish in colour, and adapts itself to the surface. In this manner the granulations springing from the surrounding skin are very nicely adapted to the circumference of the sore, so that the granulations on the edge unite with those on the surface. When, therefore, you see the surface of an ulcer red, the granulations equal, the surface I'ising a little above the edge, the discharge of matter healthy, and the edge of the sore nicely adapted to the surface, you will say that this ulcer is in a healing state. In order to produce this state of the sore the best practice which you can generally pursue is to apply poultices and plasters. When you open an abscess, or when a wound is produced which cannot be healed by the adhesive pi'ocess, the best application is a poultice for the purpose of exciting the granulations. This poultice must not be too warm , it should be gently stimu- lating, so as not to repress the growth of granu- lations, but to form a soft bed to which they may spring. The effect of the poultice is, by its warmth and moisture, to encourage such a degree of action as may promote the rising of the granulations. When the granulations have risen to the edge of the sore our practice alters, and it becomes our object to adapt the granulations of the edge to those of the surface. For this purpose adhesive plaster or unctuous substances are employed, with a view of pressing down the granulations of the edge of the sore on those of the surface, so as to make them unite. These