[ 478 ] S YL TAF tiiste, and pain at the pit of the stomach, a gen- tle emetic may be given, with copious dratights of warm camomile tea : the same means may be adopted in cases of surfeit. Persons of plethoric habit, when fainting from violence of passion, ought immediately to lose a few ounces of blood from the arm, and afterwards take a copious aperient; for instance, infusion of senna, tama- rinds with manna, salts', &c. If swooning arise from excess of pain, benefit may be derived from opium; and when it is occasioned by sudden fright or a fit of terror, blood-letting, followed by small doses of laudanum and antiraonial wine (from 5 to 10 drops of the former, and double that quantity of the latter), will tend to compose the nerves and promote perspiration. When the fit of swooning is the effect of too violent emetics or aperients, a few drops of the tincture of opium, in conjunction with aromatic wine, will form the most proper remedy. In cases of great debility it will be necessary to abstain from all stimulating food and drink, aud to use the mildest astringents, in combina- tion with a bland and nourishing diet. During the paroxysm frictions of the extremities with hot flannels will gi'eatly assist the recovery of the patient.—(Magazine of Domestic Economy.) SYLLABUB (i). Take 1 lb. of ratafia cakes, pounded and steeped in two bottles of port wine, one of claret, and one of brandy, the grated peel and juice of two lemons, one large nutmeg grated, 2 ozs. of sweet almonds blanched and pounded with rose water, and pounded sugar suEBcient to make it sweet. Put all these in- gredients, well mixed, into a large china bowl, or bowls of an equal size, and let the milk of a good cow be milked upon them ; add a little rich cream and sifted loaf sugar, and cover it to keep it warm. It may be served out into glasses with a silver ladle. SYLLABUB (2). Take a large glass of Madeira, one of rich sweet wine, half a glass of ratafia, ^ lb. of pounded loaf sugar, the grated peel of a lai-ge lemon, the juice of two, and a little pounded cinnamon ; stir the whole together till the sugar is dissolved, and add a quai't of rich cream; mix it well, lay some macaroons at the bottom of a dish, and pile the frothed syllabub high upon it. It may be kept nine or ten days, and is better the third or fourth day than when first made. SYLLABUB (3). Take the juice of a lemon, the peel pared very thin, a glass of brandy, two of white wine, and \ Ik of powder sugar; put these ingredients into a pan, and leave them ; the next day add a pint of thick cream and the whites of two eggs; whip the whole well, and pour the syllabubs into glasses. They are better for keeping a day or two. If the syllabubs are not wanted quite so good as the above, raisin or mountain wine will do as well as brandy. SYLLABUB, COMMON. Take half a pint of currants, the same of port or white wine, half a grated nutmeg, and the peel of a lemon ; sweeten well with pounded loaf or good brown sugar, mix it together in a china bowl, and when the sugar dissolves milk upon it three or four pints of milk. Serve it when cold. SYLLABUBS, EVERLASTING. Sift \ lb. of double-refined sugar into five gills of cream, half a pint of nice sweet wine, the juice of two large or three small Seville oranges, the zest of two lemons just sweetened with sugnr, and a spoonful of orange-flower water ; mill it with a chocolate mill, and dress it into glasses. SYLLABUBS, SOLID. Take a quarter of a pint of mountain wine, the same of white wine, the grated peel of two, and the juice of one lemon; sweeten, and add to it one quart of rich cream ; whisk it for an hour, and put it into glasses. It will keen a week in cold weather. SYLLABUBS, SOMERSETSHIRE. Pat a pint of port and a pint of sherry or any other wine into a large bowl, and sweeten according to taste ; milk the bowl full; in about twenty minutes' time cover it tolerably high with clouted cream, grate nutmeg over it, and add cinnamon and nonpareils. SYLLABUBS, STAFFORDSHIRE. Put a pint of cyder, a glass of brandy, sugar, and nutmeg into a bowl, and milk into it, or pour warm milk from a large teapot some height into it. SYLLABUBS, WHIPPED (1). Mix to- gether half a glass of brandy, a little lemon juice, and grated lemon-peel, with sugar enough to sweeten the whole ; stir it into a pint of thick cream, aud add the well-beaten whites of six eggs; whisk it for an hour, and put the froth, as it rises, upon a sieve to drain. Put a little port and sweet wine into glasses. SYLLABUBS, WHIPPED (2). Mix with a pint of cream half a pint of sweet wine, a glass of brandy, the juice of a lemon, grated nutmeg, and 6 ozs. of sifted loaf sugar. Nearly fill the custard glasses with the mixture, and lay on with a spoon some of the whip. SYMPATHETIC INK. See Ink, Stmpa THKTIO. T. TABLE CLOTHS. See Damask and Laundry-Maid. TABLES. See Furniture, Cleaning. TAFFEY (1). Put a quart of good molasses in an iron pot, having previously greased it v/ith butter; let it boil very fast, stirring it