W HI [ 558 ] WHI The following drops and ointment have proved very effioacious :—Take of liydriodate of potass ?6 grains; of distilled water, 1 oz. Let the liydriodate dissolve. Begin with 10 drops twice or thrice a day, and increase gradually to 15 or 20 drops. Take of iodide of zinc 1 drachm; of prepared hog's lard, 1 oz. Make an oint- ment, and rub in twice a day the size of a filbert of the ointment. Tliis is likewise a good ointment for healing old sores. WHITE-POT (1). Add to a pint of cream four eggs beaten up with a little salt, some sliced nutmeg, and plenty of sugar, then the crumb of a small roll ; put it into a dish, pour the cream, &c., over it, with a few raisins previously boiled, and a little sweet butter, aud put it into a moderate oven to bake. WHITEPOT (2). Beat up the yolks of three and the whites of four eggs with two quarts of new milk, a little rose water, a nutmeg grated, and ^ lb. of sugar; lay them in a dish, aud pour the milk, &c., over them; put a bit of butter on the top, and set it in the oven. It will take half an hour s baking. WHITING, or Whitewashing. For ceil- ings no lime should be used, but well-prepared whiting. First, with a whitewash brush and repeated waters, remove all the dirt; next prepare a wash of whiting, having the necessary quantity of size and a little blue (such as washerwomen use); stir all up together, and lay on evenly with the brush, keeping your work lip close to prevent blotching. Lima is used for outdoor work, and should have some alum mixed with the water, in the proportion of 1 lb. of alum to twelve gallons of water. The alum phould be dissolved in warm water before mixing. Plasterers use the grounds of beer in coloured washes. WHITING SAUCE. Put cyder, small beer, ale, or a mixture of them, into a sauce pan, with sweet herbs, spices, and catsup, and roll it in flour, put in a little buttei', and the fins, head, &c., of the fish; strain the fish, finish it in the same manner. Add shell fish, meat balls, &c. WHITINGS: To Choose, In choosing whitings be careful that the skin has a silvery appearance, and that the body is firm and the fins stiff: these are sure proofs of their fresh- ness. The prime season for whitings is from January to April, but they may be had all the year. WHITINGS, BOILED. Whitings should be boiled in the same manner as cod, haddock, or any other fish. Serve with anchovy sauce, or catsup and butter. WHITINGS, BROILED. Wash the (\hitings in salt and water, dry them well with a cloth, flour them, lay them on the gridiron, and broil them over a very clear fire. Serve with shrimp or oyster sauce. WHITINGS, DRIED. To dry them choose the largest, take out the gills, eyes, and en- trails, and cleanse the blood from the back-bone ; wipe them very dry, and put salt in the sockets of the eyes; let them lie for a night on the board, and then hang them up in a dry place • they will be fit to eat in three or four days. Skin and rub them over with egg, strew them with bread crumbs, and lay them before the fire until sufficiently brown. Serve with ScllICG WHITINGS, FILLETS OF (Fried). Take the skins off the fillets very neatly, and cut them in two; have ready an egg beaten up with pepper and salt, and toss the beaten fillets in this. A few minutes before serving take them out of the egg, fry them quickly that they may not be greasj', and lay them neatly round the dish. Serve them with butter sauce very hot in the centre, with a squeeze of lemon juice and a little glaze mixed in it, aud garnished with shred parslev. WHITINGS, FORCEMEAT BALLS OF. Bone as neatly as possible either large or small whitings, scrape the flesh, and put it in a mortar ; boil some bread crumbs in cream until the liquor is quite soaked up, and then pour them into the mortar ; add a good bit of butter, half a shallot, salt, pepper, the yolks of three eggs, and the whites well beaten, and mix the whole well together; set a stewpan containing water on a brisk fire, and when it boils fast add to it a glass of white wine. Take a small quantity of the farce, form it into a ball, put it into some stock, and so continue till all is used. Take care to turn them about: they require a few minutes' boiling. Take them out one by one, according as you throw them in, and lay them on a sieve to drain. Serve with a good cullis sauce and a little lemon jcice. WHITINGS, FRIED. Cleanse the skin, then turn their tails to their mouths, secure them with a small skewer, do them all over with egg, and fry them in boiling lard. Serve with anchovy or shrimp sauce in a boat, Whitings are frequently served to garnish salmon aud cod. WHITINGS WITH HERBS. Cleanse and skin them, cut off the heads, then put them between two dishes, the under one well nibbed with butter, and all sorts of sweet herbs chopped fine and strewed over the fish, and let them simmer in a Dutch oven ; turn the fish once or twice on a dish, and pour the sauce and sweet herbs over them. WHITLOW. The extremities of the fingers X are liable to a very painful inflammation termed whitlow, which almost always terminates in