OIL OIN [ 264 1 Jordan almonds by heat, the oil from which soon grows rank, while that from fresh Barbary ahnonds, drawn cold, ■will keep good for some time. The almonds are sometimes blanched by dipping in boiling water, or by soaking some hours in cold water, so as to part with their skin easily ; but they are more usually ground to a paste, which is put into canvas bags, and pressed between iron plates in a screw press, or by means of a wedge. One hundred weight of bitter almonds, unblanched, produces 46 lbs. of oil. The cake pays for pressing. Oil of Vernicia Montana. Yellow. It is used as a varnish, and is extracted from the kernels. Rape Oil is made from rape seed. Dries slowly, and makes but a softish soap. It is fit for ointments, but does not make good plasters. The mucilage it contains may be got rid of, in a great measure, by adding J oz. of oil of vitriol to two pints of the oil. Colza oil is only a pure kind of rape oil. Rape is called on the continent colza or colzat. Sunflower-seed Oil. From the seeds of Helianthus annuus. They yield well, and are recommended for cultivation. Perhaps the Jerusalem artichoke would answer better, as both the root and seed would be saleable. True Oil of Mace by Expression. Red, remains always liquid and soft, has a strong smell of mace, and subacid taste. Imported in jars or bottles, the lower pai-t being rather thicker than the top. In Europe 1^ lb. of mace yielded H drachm of oil. Walnut Oil. Makes good plasters, but will not keep. Used by painters, and is very diy- ing. Walnuts yield about half their weight of oil. The chief of the volatile vegetable oils ob- tained by distillation are oil of anise, cinnamon, clove, lemon, mace, neroli or orange flower, peppermint, rose, rosemary, and spike. When of sufficient importance all the oils will be found mentioned under their specific names. For the illuminating power of various oils see Lamps. OIL-CLOTH should never be touched with soap. When dirty wash it with warm water only, and polish it with a hard brush. OIL OF JUPITER. Take three quarts of spirit of wine, flavoured with essential oil of lemon, and the same quantity flavoured with spirit of cedrat; make a syrup with 7 lbs. of sugar, a gallon of water, and two bottles of Scubac ; mix the whole together, and by stirring it will become thick. To clarify it mix the whites of two eggs in about a pint of the liqueur, and afterwards put it to the whole ; stir it, and then put it into a still in the bain-marie, moderately heated; let it remain for twelve hours; filter the produce of your distillation, and then bottle it. OIL SPOTS. Grease Spots. OIL TOAST. Toast some slices of bread, and while hot baste them with oil and lemon juice; pepper and salt them, and serve very hot. OIL OF VENUS. Reduce the following articles to an impalpable powder:—1 oz. of skirret seeds, 1 oz. of caraway seeds, 1 oz. of anise seeds, 1^ drachm of mace, and the rind of an orange; infuse these for five days in a gallon of brandy, and then distil in a bain marie from it two quarts of liqueur. Dissolve over the fire 4 lbs. of sugar in two quarts of pure water; when cold mix it with the distilled liqueur, and colour it of a clear yellow with a little tincture of saffron; filter and bottle it, and seal the corks. OINTMENTS. {See Cerates.) Notwith- standing the extravagant encomiums which have been bestowed on diff"erent preparations of this kind, with regard to their efficacy in the cure of wounds, sores, &c., it is beyond a doubt that the most proper application to a green wound is dry lint. But though oint- rdents do not heal wounds and sores, yet they serve to defend them from the external air, and to retain such substances as may be necessary for drying, deterging, destroying proud flesh, and such-like. For these purposes, how- ever, it will be sufficient to insert only a few of the most simple forms, as ingredients of a more active natm-e can occasionally be added to them. Emollient Ointment. Take of palm oil 2 lbs.; olive oil, 1^ pint; yellow wax, ^ lb. ; Venice turpentine, \ lb. Melt the wax in the oils over a gentle fire; then mix in the turpentine, and strain the ointment. This supplies the place of allhcea ointment. It may be used for anointing inflamed parts, &c. Eye Ointment. Take of hog's lard prepared 4 ozs.; white wax, 2 drachms; tutty prepared, 1 oz. Melt the wax with the lard over a gentle fire, and then sprinkle in the tutty, con- tinually stirring them till the ointment is cold. This preparation will be more efficacious, and of a better consistence, if 2 or 3 drachms of camphor be rubbed up with a little oil, and inti- mately mixed with it. Or, take camphor and calamine stone levigated, of each 6 drachms ; ver- digris well prepared, 2 drachms ; hog's lard and mutton suet prepared, of each 2 ozs. Rub the camphor well with the powder ; afterwards mix in the lard and suet, continuing the triture till they be perfectly united. This ointment has been long in esteem for diseases of the eyes. It ought, however, to be used with caution when the eyes are much inflamed or verv tender.