[ 509 ] TUR TUR be put in tTie crop as directed for VEal, Shoulder of (Roasted). TURKEY PATTIES. Mince some of the white part of a tnrlcey, mix it with gi-ated lemon, nutmeg, salt, a very little white pepper, cream, and a small bit of butter warmed, and fill the patties. TURKEY" PIE, RAISED (with Tongue). Bone a turkey, then take a boiled pickled tongue, pare off the skin, put it into the middle ot the turkey, with a light, well-seasoned force- meat, and some slices of sweetbread; sew it up, and put it into boiling water for ten minutes. Make a raised crust, lay a forcemeat at the bottom, then put in the turkey (the turkey must be cold), with rashers of fat bacon tied over it; then put on the lid, ornament it, and set it in the oven to bake. When done lift off the lid, take out the bacon, glaze the breast lightly, add a cullis or truffle sauce, and serve. TURKEY POULTS. These should be drawn in the same manner as a turkey, except that the head should be left on, and turned under the pinions, with the bill pointing outwards. TURKEY, PULLED. Divide the meat of the breast by pulling instead of cutting; then warm it in a little white gravy and cream, grated nutmeg, salt, and a little flour and butter. The leg should be seasoned, scored, boiled, and served in the middle of a dish, with the above all round. TURKEY EN RAGOUT. Have a ragout in bechamel sauce of mushrooms, truffles, cocks' combs, fat livers, and artichoke bottoms. Lay the turkey when boiled in a dish, and serve the ragout over it. TURKEY, ROASTED. It may be either stuffed with sausage meat or stuffing the same as for Veal, Shoulder of (Roasted). As tliis makes a large addition to the size of the bird, take care that the heat of the fire is constantly to that part, as it frequently happens that the breast is not sufficiently done. A strip of paper should be put on the bone to prevent its scorching while the other parts are roasting. Baste well, and froth it up. Serve with gravy in the dish, and bread sauce in a sauce tureen.- A few bread crumbs and a beaten egg should be added to the stuffing of sausage meat. TURKEY, SAUCE FOR. Cut the crust of a penny loaf thin, put it into cold water, with a few peppercorns and a little salt, and boil it tiU soft; then beat it well, add I lb. of butter and two spoonsful of cream, and send it to table. TURKEY, STUFFED (with Onions and Pickled Pork). Scald twenty-four small white onions, and boil them in stock, with | lb. of pickled pork cut in thin slices, a bunch of parsley, green shallots, thyme, a bay leaf, whole pepper, two cloves, and salt. When d( ue drain them all, stuff the turkey with them, and then wrap it in slices of bacon, over which put paper, and roast it. Make a sauce with a bit of butter, a slice of ham, two shallots, and a few mush- rooms ; soak these for a time, then add two spoons- ful of stock, and the same quantity of cullis; let it simmer for half an hour, skim, and strain it. When ready add a small spoonful of mus- tard, a little pepper, and salt. Serve this sauce with the turkey. TURKEY, STUFFED (with Sausage AND Chestnuts). Roast what quantity of chest- nuts you think necessary, peel them, and pound a part of them to a farce, with the liver, chopped parsley, shallots, a little salt, pepper, a bit of butter, and the yolks of three raw eggs ; put this farce into the crops, and stuff the body with the whole chestnuts, and a small sausage fried in butter ; cover the turkey with slices of bacon, and put paper over that; then roast it, and serve with a chestnut cullis. TURKEY, STUFFED (with Truffles). Peel about 1 lb. or \^ lb. of truffles, mix with them a little salt and grated bacon, and stuff your turkey with it; sew it up closely, wrap it in two or three sheets of paper, and keep it in this state for three or four days, that it may take the flavour of the truffles; then roast it well, covered all round with slices of bacon, and paper over that. Serve with a Spanish sauce. TURKEY, STUFFING FOR. To the preceding composition add the soft part of twelve oysters, anchovy, or a little grated ham or tongue. Pork sausage meat is sometimes used to stuff turkeys and fowls, or it may be fried, and sent up as garnish. TURKEY WINGS, HARICOT OF. Take the wings of some young turkeys; trim and bone them ; then make a light roux, in which fry the wings lightly ; put tliem into a stew- pan, with some rich broth, parsley, and green onions ; skim it carefully, and when about tliree parts done put in some turnips cut into I'ound pieces an inch and a half long, and browned. When half done drain tlie wings, place them on a dish en couronne, and the turnips in the c 6 litre TURLINGTON'S BALSAM. Take of the roots of angelica and of elecampane, of each 4 ozs. ; benzoin and guaiacum, of each 2 ozs. ; socotrine aloes, 6 drachms; balsam of tolu, 1 oz.; liquid storax, ^ oz.; of rectified spirit of wine, I quart. Let all the ingredients be bruised separately, and afterwards digested in the spirit of wine, in a vessel closely stopped, for at least fourteen days, shaking them every day : afterwards pour off the clear balsam. This is of similar qualities to the compound tincture of benzoin (see Elixir, Paregoric): it may be also used for the same intentions