[ 304 ] PAS PAS tions in the face, swellings, cutaneous inflamma- tions, and painful ulcers. In some instances, too, fear has produced palsy, loss of speech, epilepsy, and even madness itself. Bashfdlness is an inferior degree of fear, which retains the blood in the external vessels of the breast and the whole countenance. Plence, in females of a delicate constitution and transparent skin, we observe the blush not only overspread the face, but also the bosom. If carried to a greater degree it is attended with dangerous consequences, particularly in the in- dividuals before mentioned: it may stop the flux of the menses, and prove fatal if attended with a fever. A very high degree of bashfulness may generate a dangerous fever even in men, though, from modern education, instances of this latter kind become every day more rare. Excessive bashfulness closely borders on fear: if it does not proceed from vice or corrupted mannei's it may be corrected by social inter- course with persons of a cheerful disposition. Terror, or the dread of an evil surprising us before we are able to prevent it, is of all passions the most destructive and the most diflBcult to be avoided, because its operation is unforeseen and instantaneous. To shun all occasions that may produce it is, perhaps, the only remedy. Persons who are feeble, and possessed of much sensibility, are most subject to terror, and likewise most affected by it. Its effects are a sudden and violent contraction of almost every muscle that serves to perform the voluntary motions. It may farther occasion polypous concretions of the heart, inflammations of the external parts of the body, spasms, and swoons. At the same time, it may stop salutary evacuations, particularly per- spiration and hemorrhages ; it may repel ulcers and cutaneous eruptions, to the great detriment of health and danger of life. The menses are sometimes instantaneously suppressed, palpita- tion of the heart, trembling of the limbs, and, in a more violent degree, convulsions and epileptic fits, or a general catalepsy and sudden death, are the subsequent effects of terror. As terror quickly compels the blood to retreat from the skin to the internal parts, it forcibly checks the circulation of all the fluids. If anger accompany terror there not unfrequently arise violent hemorrhages, vomiting, and apoplexy. Terror has been suddenly known to turn the hair grey. An inattentive and injudicious mode of educating children often lays the foundation of this infirmity, which is difficult to be eradicated at a more advanced age. Persons under the influence of this passion should be treated like those who suffer from any other spasmodic con- traction. Tea, a little wine, or spirits and water may be given to them ; vinegar, lavender drops, or spirits of hartshorn may be held to the nostrils ; warm bathing of the feet and emollient injections may be of advantage; and lastly, tl.e ditferent evacuations ought to be promoted; but, above all, the mind ought to be duly composed. Anger arises from a sense or apprehension of suffered injustice, and an impetuous desire of revenge. Its diflerent degrees depend upon the impressions made by the injury, or the ardour of the disposition to vengeance. In the former case, namely, when the sense of injustice is the prevalent feeling, anger affects us like terror, and produces spasmodic contractions and stag- nations in the liver and its vessels, sometimes so considerable as to change the bile into a con- crete mass : from this cause alone often arise the gravel and stone of the bladder. The more usual consequences of anger, if joined to afflic- tion, are paleness of the face, palpitation of the heart, faltering of the tongue, trembling of the limbs, and jaundice. If, on the contrary, the hope of revenge be the predominant feature in anger, violent com- motions take place in the whole system; the circulation of all the fluids, as well as the pulsa- tion of the heart and arteries, is perceptily increased; the vital spirits flow rapidly but irregularly through the limbs; the muscles make uncommon efforts, while some appear almost palsied; the face becomes red ; the eyes sparkle ; and the whole body feels elated and inclined to motion. This species of anger is by far the most common. Anger and terror are, therefore, particularly injurious to the tender bodies of infants, who are possessed of extreme sensibility, easily af- fected, and consequently much exposed to the influence of these passions, on account of the proportionably greater size of their nerves, and their inability to restrain passion by the in- fluence of reason. They are liable to be so severely affected that they may die suddenly in convulsions, or retain during life an imbecile body and mind, liable to be terrified upon the slightest occasion. When children are apt to ciy in sleep, when they start up and make motions indicating fear or terror, it must not be always ascribed to actual pain, but frequently to dreams, which fill their young minds with terrible images, especially if they have often been terrified while awake. All parents know how much some chil- dren are addicted to anger and malice, and how difficult it is to suppress the ebullition of these passions. Hence we ought to beware of giving the most distant encouragement to such destruc- tive emotions, for it is certain that both men and women of an irascible temper generally die of a consumption of the lungs. Persons of an irritable disposition are more frequently exposed to anger than others: they are more easily affected by every passion.