LAM t il2 i LAM The fore-quarter is the prime joint, and if weighing 10 lbs. will require about two hours' roasting. In serving remove the shoulder from the ribs, put between them a lump of butter, sprinkle with pepper and salt, lemon or Seville orange juice, and when the butter is melted take off the shoulder, and put it into another dish. A hind-quarter of 8 lbs. will require from one hour and three quarters to two hours' roasting. A leg of lamb of 6 lbs. will require an hour ".nd a half roasting. A shoulder of lamb, an hour. Kibs, from an hour to an hour and a quarter. Loin of 4 lbs., an hour. Neck of 3 lbs., three quarters of an hour. Breast, three quarters of an hour. The carcass of lamb is cut up into the follow- ing parts: — 1. Leg. 2. Best end of loin. r- - ^ 3. Chump end of loirii - 4. Best end of breast. 5. The neck. 6. The shoulder. 7. The breast. LAMB : To Carve. See Carvtng. LAMB : To Collar. Slit the under side of a leg of lamb, take out the bone, and fill up the part with the kidney and some of its fat finely sliced; season the whole with pepper and thyme; roll and tie it up tightly, as in other collars. LAMB: To Keep. The fat should all be taken out from the chine, also the pipe that runs along the back-bone, and two small kernels near the tail; then sprinkle the inside with salt. In the fat of the leg there is a kernel, which must be taken out, and the place filled with salt. No joint keeps longer than the neck ; but the pipe along the chine-bone must be cut out, and the whole rubbed dry with a clean cloth. Inside the shoulder, also, there is a kernel, which must be removed, and the part rubbed with salt. Tl)e skirt of the breast must be taken off, and the whole wiped dry. LAMB : To Roast. The hind-quarter of lamb usually weighs from 7 lbs. to 10 lbs. This size will take about two hours to roast it. Have a brisk fire. It must be very frequently basted while roasting, sprinkled with a little salt, and dredged all over with flour about half an hour before it is done. LAMB BAKED WITH RICE. Half roast either a neck or loin of lamb, and then cut it into steaks. Boil ^ lb. of rice in water for ten minutes, and put to it a quart of good gravy, with some nutmeg and two or three blades of mace. Stew over a slow fire or stove till the rice begins to thicken, take it off, stir in lib. of butter, and when quite melted add the yolks of sis eggs finely beaten; butter a dish all over, put a little pepper and salt to the steaks, dip them in melted butter, and lay them in the buttered dish; pour upon them the gravy that comes from them, and then the rice ; pour over the yolks of three eggs finely beaten, and send it to the oven. Rather more than half an hour will be sufficient to bake it. LAMB, BLANQUETTE OF. Roast a leg of lamb, and when cold take off all the skin and nerves, and cut it into pieces, all the same size and thickness ; cut off the angles so as to make them nearly round, beat them with the handle of a knife, and put them into a saucepan, with some fried mushrooms, four ladlesful of veloute travaille, and a little pepper; set the saucepan on the fire for a few minutes, thicken it with the yolks of two eggs, make it quite hot, and serve the blanquette with sippets. LAMB, BREAST OF (Cold). Bone breast of lamb, then have a good forcemeat of fat livers, truffles, &c., the same as for raise pies, and an omelet made of the white of eggs and of the yolks coloured with spinach juice When cold cut them in long strips, first laying some forcemeat, then sUps of omelet, with few truffles between, and likewise some fat livers; then spread all over with the force meat, roll it in a napkin, and stew it very gently for three or four hours. When done let it remain in the liquor till cold ; then take it out and let it stand for two days before you cut it trim it well, lay it in a dish, and garnish it with a spice jelly minced and scattered round it. LAMB, BREAST OF (with Cucumbers) Cut the chine-bone off from the breast, and put it to stew with a pint of gravy. When the bones will draw out put it on the gridiron to grill and then serve in a dish of nicely stewed cucumbers. LAMB, BREAST OF (with Peas). Braise a breast of lamb, and then having taken out the small bones, flatten it. When cold cut it into small pieces, and put them into the braise to heat; drain and glaze them, and serve with peas prepared as follows poured over them :— Put some young peas into water, with a little fresh butter; drain and put them into a sauce