WIN L 564 ] WIN the table, if ever it be so. If fruit be too ripe the wine from it will be low and vapid ; it will not be strong and generous, and it will also require more trouble, additional spirit, and ex- pense. Pickin(j the fruit. This is detaching the unripe and bad berries. The process is certainly tedious; but the result of such fruit, when the wine is drunk, will in its richness and quality be most eminently superior. Grapes should also have their stalks picked from them previously to their being placed in the vat. Bniisinrj the fruit. A considerable advantage is gained by this operation in time and bulk. Besides, it prepares the fruit for nature's hermetical elaboration. The quantity of fruit for making a vintage of domestic wine is not so large but it may be bruised in a tub, and from thence removed into the vat; or, if a very small quantity, it may be bruised in the vat. While the fruit is being picked by one person another may be bruising it, and as it is bruised remove it into the vat. When Malaga or Smyrna raisins are used they are to be put into the vat with the water to soak, and the following day taken out and bruised ; then return them into the vat again, and the general process is to follow. Vattbig the fruit. The first thing to be done is placing a huc-muc, or guard, on the inside of the vat against the tap-hole, to prevent the husks escaping at the time the must is drawn off. Immediately all the fruit is in the vat the portion of water assigned should be added, then the contents stirred up with the vat staff, and left to macerate until the next day, when the sugar, tartar, &c., diluted with some of the liquor, are to be put into the vat, and the whole again stirred up. The place where the vat is situated should be perfectly free from any noxious matter or disagreeable smell, and should have a free circulation of air, and a temperature of not less than 58°. If a vinous fermentation does not take place in a reasonable time the contents must be often stirred, and the temperature of the place made warmer. The time of a vinous fermentation com- mencing is always uncertain. It depends much on the quality and quantity of the contents of the vat, its local situation, the season or weather, and most particularly on the green- ness or ripeness of the fruit. To produce a medium vinous fermentation the vats and contents ought to be placed in a temperature of from 60° lo 70° ; and, if this is not found to produce fermentation in a short time, the temperature of the place must be made still warmer, and the component matter often stirred with the vat staff. The commencement of a vinous fermentation may be pretty well known by plunging the thermometer into the middle of the contents of the vat for a minute, and when taken out, if a fermentation has commenced, the temperature of the contents will be higher than the place where the vats are situated. Shortly after this the vinous fermentation begins to be very conspicuous, and may be easily known by its taste, smell, appearance, and effects. The contents will first gently rise and swell, with a slight movement and a little hissing. Some time after a considerable motion will take place, the contents will also increase in heat and bulk, and at this crisis a quantity of air escapes. These effects continue a long time, changing and decomposing the primordial substances. It is the elaboration of the vinous fermenta- tion that decomposes the saccharine, produces spirit in wine, and renders it wholesome : hence may be perceived the indispensable necessity of it. When the vinous fermentation is about half over, the flavouring ingredients are to be put in the vat, and well stirred into the contents. If almonds form a component part they are first to be beaten to a paste, and mixed with a pint or two of the must. Nutmegs, cinnamon, ginger, seeds, &c., should, before they are put into the vat, be reduced to powder, and mixed with some of the must. It is impossible to lay down an exact time for a vinous fermentation; but for eighteen gallons two or three days are generally suffi- cient for white wines: red wines may have a day or two more. Towards the end of the vinous fermentation the agitation, effervescence, and discharges of air cease. The must also in the vat will give, by tasting, a strong vinous pungency to the tongue. This is the period, in order to have a strong and generous wine, to stop the remaining slight fermentation by drawing off the must. Drawing the must. Must is the name of new wine before it has gone through all the requisite processes and is perfected. A cock, or spigot and faucet, is to be put into the tap-hole of the vat, and the must drawn off immediately and put into open vessels, there to remain until the pressing is finished. Pressing the husk. As soon as all the must is drawn off from the vat the husks (residuum) are to be put into hair bags, the mouths of the bags are to be well fastened, then put into the press, and the whole of the vintage pressed without delay. When the pressing is all finished the must that is pressed out is mixed with the must that was drawn off from the vat. Many ways may be contrived for pressing a small