C 40 ] HER HER take colour. Make a paper case, over the bottom of which lay some farce to the depth of half an inch, oil the case, and set it on a gridiron over hot ashes. As soon as the gratin is formed put in the roes, and strew raspings over them. Do them in a Dutch oven before a moderate fire (a few minutes are sufficient), takeoi? the fat, and serve the roes with Espagnole and lemon juice. HERRINGS. There are three sorts of her- rings—fresh, salted, and dried or red herrings. They are emptied and cleaned like any other fish. When fresh they are broiled, and served with melted butter, white sauce, &c. The salted herring should be soaked in cold water before it is cooked. This is also broiled, but sometimes it is cut in pieces and eaten raw. The red herring is split down the back, the bead and tail cut off, and the fish broiled like the others. The best red herrings are full of roe, are firm and large, and have a yellow cast. Of the fresh herrings the scales are bright il good, the eyes are full, and the gills red ; the fish also should be stiff. HERRINGS : To Pickle. Let the fish be well cleaned and gutted, but not opened. Take salt, pepper, mace, and nutmeg; pound and mix these spices well, then rub a pan with an onion, strew some of the spice over the bottom, and put in as many fish as will lie flat on the bottom ; then put a layer of sliced onion, then fish, and so on alternately till the pan is filled. Strew the pounded spice between each layer ; pour the best vinegar over so as to cover the whole; tie a brown paper over the pan, and bake till the bones are soft. The beads and tails must be cut off. HERRINGS: To Smoke. Having cleaned the fish, lay them for a night in a mixture oi common salt and a little saltpetre. The next day pass a stick through the eyes, and hang row of herrings over an old cask, in which place some sawdust in the midst ot a heater red-hot. Let them remain suspended in the smoke twenty- four nours. HERRINGS, BAKED. Scald, wash, and dry them well in a cloth, and lay them on a board. Mix some black pepper and a few cloves (pounded) with plenty of salt, and rub the fish all over; lay them straight in a pot, cover theqi with vinegar, put in a few bay leaves, tie strong paper over the top, and bake in a moderate oven. They may be eaten either hot or cold, and if vinegar is used they will keep good two or three months. HERRINGS, BOILED. Scale and other- wise prepare the herrings in the usual way, dry them well, and rub them over with a little salt and vinegar; skewer their tails in their mouths, Jay them on a fish plate, and put them into boiling water. In ten or twelve minutes take them out, drain them, and lay them on the dish, the heads towards the middle. Serve them with melted butter and parsley, and garnish with horseradish. HERRINGS, BROILED. Clean them and cut off their heads ; dry them in a cloth, dust them with flour, and lay them on the gridiron ; wash the heads, and boil them in small beer, with whole pepper and onions. When done strain off the liquor, and thicken it with butter, flour, and mustard ; lay the herrings in a dish, pour the sauce into a boat, and serve them up. HERRINGS, CAVEACH OF. Cut each into four or five junks. From 10 lbs. to 12 lbs. of herrings will require twelve cloves, two nutmegs, eight long peppei's, fifty corns, allspice, a little mace, ginger, and f oz. of pepper. All these are to be pounded, and mixed with 1 oz. of finely pounded salt to every pound of fish. Rub and stuff it into the fish with the fingers ; fry a fine colour in oil or clarified butter, and when cold pack them into a nice jar, strewing allspice among them, with cold boiled vinegar, and pour oil over it. If well covered and properly se- cured from the air they will keep a long time. Serve with hot boiled rice. HERRINGS, COLLARED. Take off the fillets with their skin,and rub them with the spices as for Caveach. If for present use, half the quantity of salts (what is meant by present use is, say a month); add sweet herbs and a little cochineal ; strew some allspice over them, roll them up, and bind them ; put them in as much braise made of fish or meat as will cover them, and simmer very slowly till done ; let them cool, and put into the braise an equal quantity of strong vinegar, with allspice in grains; let it boil up once, and when perfectly cold pack and cover as above. The pots ought to be small, as the fish spoils soon after being opened. HERRINGS, FRIED. Scale the fish, wash and dry them well, dredge them with flour, and fry them in butter over a brisk but. clear fire. When done set their tails one against the other in the middle of the dish. Fry crisply a handful of parsley, take it out before the colour changes, lay it round the herrings, and serve them up with melted butter, parsley, and mustard. HERRINGS, POTTED. Cut off the heads, and lay the herrings closely in an earthenware pan; strew a little salt between the layers ; put in cloves, mace, whole pepper, and a nut- meg cut in pieces ; fill up the pan with vinegar, water, and a little white wine; cover the pan closely, and bake tWe fish. When cold pound it, and put it by in pots in the usual way. HERRINGS, RED. Take half a dozen red herrings, cut off the heads and tails, split