ORA OEL [ 250 ] the outside rind of the oranges very thJn, and only strew it over with fine powder sugar (as much as its own moisture will talie), and set it to dry in a hot stove. OKANGES, COMPOTE OF. Cut them in small pieces, and boil them in water till they are tender; then change them into cold water, scald them, and when they appear soft throw them again into cold water. Next make a syrup Avith one glass of water and 4 ozs. of sugar, and put in the fruit; let it simmer gently over a slow fii-e for half an hour, and serve cold. ORANGES, CONSERVE OF. Grate the rind of an orange into a plate, squeeze the juice over it, and mix the whole with a spoon; then boil some sugar high, mix the fruit therewith, and when thick enough put it into moulds. ORANGES,. FLORENTINE OF (with Apples). Take half a dozen oranges, save the juice, and take out the pulp; lay the rinds in water twenty-four hours, changing the water three or four times ; then boil them in three or four different waters, strain the water off, put them and their juice with lib. of sugar, and set them by for use. When they are used boil ten pippins in a little sugar and water; jiare, quarter, and core them, and mix them with some of the oranges; lay a puff paste in the dish, then put in the fruit, and cover it with a thin crust, rolled and laid across. It may be cut into whatever shape you please. ORANGES PRESERVED DRY. Take some thick-rinded oranges, and mark the quarters, but without actually dividing them ■; then pare and throw them into eold water, after which put them into boiling water; let them remain till the head of a pin will easily penetrate the skin, and then throw them again into cold water. Clarify and boil some sugar to small thread, put in the oranges, boil them together a little while, and then pour the whole into a pan. The next day drain off the syrup, and having boiled it up a few times, pour it again on the oranges. The third day drain off the syrup as before, and having boiled it to great thread, add some more clarified sugar and the oranges; give the whole one boil (covered), and put it aside as above. Repeat this opera- tion two more days. On the last increase the degree of the sugar to pearl, and having added the fruit, boil it three or four times; then set it in a stove for two days, when the oranges may be placed in dry boxes, which must be kept in a dry place ORANGES, PULPED. Either pare your oranges extremely thin or rasp them, cut a hole at the stalk, pulp them very clean, put them into a pot, and more than cover them with spring water and a little salt; lay a cloth upon the top three times doubled, and then upon that a trencher or cover; let them scald gently, changing the water five or six times in the scalding: put salt into the first water. They must be so tender that a straw will pass thi-ough. Keep them in the last water till they can be taken out with the hands, put them on cloths, with the mouths of the holes downwards, changing them to dry places. When dry put them iuto milk-warm syrup, let them lie half an hour, and then just scald them ; take them out, put them iuto a deep china dish, and scald them once in two or three days for a fortnight. The last time boil them up quickly till they look clear, turning them about as often as occasion re- quires. If any part looks white and thick strew sugar over it in the boiling. When they are transparent put them into pots, pour the syrup over scalding hot, put brandy paper over, and tie on a bladder. For syrup 1 lb. of sugar to a pint of water. ORANGES EN SURPRISE. Take ten oranges, choose them of a veiy good form, and the rinds smooth, close, and deep coloured; cut a piece off the stalk end of the orange, being careful to make the stalk scar exactly in the centre; then with a tea-spoon clear out all the juice, &c., from the oranges with the greatest care, so that the rind be pot injured; separate the white from the juice, which filter and make into a jelly. As every orange is thus emptied plunge it into cold water, and afterwards lay them two inches apart on a sieve, round which place plenty of pounded ice. When about to be sent to table fill each rind with the jelly, and lay the tops on ; place sis of them on a napkin neatly folded in a dish, and a seventh on the top. ORGEAT. Beat 2 ozs. of almonds with a tea-spoonful of orange-flower water, and one or two bitter almonds ; then pour thereto a quart of milk and water, and sweeten with sugar or capillaire. This is salutary for weak stomachs, and allays heat. Half a glass of brandy may be added, and also i oz. of gum arabic in gouty cases. ORGEAT PASTE. Beat 2 lbs. of sweet and 1 lb. of bitter almonds with a little water, and boil up two quarts of syrup, with which mix the almonds; stir it, and when cold put it in pots covered with bladder. ORGEAT SYRUP. Beat in a mortar i lb.' of sweet and 1 oz. of bitter almonds, mix the same with a quart of water, strain it through a cloth, and add a glass of orange-flower water. Boil two quarts of syrup pretty high, mix what drains from the almonds with the syrup on the fire, and let it boil till it is fine and clear ; put it warm into bottles, and the next day cork them closely, with bladder over them. ORLEANS PUDDING. Half fill a deep