SER [ 480 1 SEW The general mart for Egyptian senna is BouUac, near Grand Cairo, where they mix the senna in the following proportions:—Lanceo- lated senna, 500; obovate senna, 300; and argel, 200 parts. When sennas reach Europe they are still further adulterated by the- admixture of the folioles of the Colutea arhorescens, which are very like the obovate senna, but are perfectly symmetrical, not oblique. A more dangerous admixture takes place at Marseilles with the leaves of the Coriaria tnyrtifolia, which is an actual poison, and has produced fatal effects. They are much larger than the leafits of the senna, and are therefore always in fragments. Senna is a very useful cathartic, operating mildly, and yet effectually ; and, if judiciously dosed and managed, rarely occasioning the bad consequences which too frequently follow the exhibition of the stronger purges. The only inconveniences complained of in this drug are its being apt to gripe, and its nauseous flavour. These are best obviated by adding to the senna some aromatic substance, as cardamom, ginger, cinnamon, &c., and by facilitating its operation by drinking plentifully of any mild diluent. Senna may be given in substance to the extent of about 1 drachm; but this is rather too bulky, and it is therefore better to divide it into two doses, and to take one half at night, and the other in the morning. It is more conveniently given in the form of infusion, which is generally made by pouring about 6 ozs. of boiling water upon from 2 to 6 drachms of senna leaves in a teapot, and letting it stand about an hour. Senna ought never to be ordered in decoction, Gren says, because it becomes perfectly inert, from the total dissipation of the nauseous and volatile principles on which its purgative effects depend. It has been customary to reject the pedicles of the leaves of senna, as causing gripes and pains in the bowels ; but this is a mere prejudice, for both leaves and pedicles act in the very same way. The tincture, on account of the menstruum, cannot be given in doses large enough to purge. —[Duncan s Dispensatory.) SERVANTS. See Domestic and Female Servants, &c. SERVELAS. According to the number of eervelas you intend to make, take your quantity of fresh lean pork; mince it small, and mix it with a fourth part of bacon fat, also minced; season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, spices, anise, and coriander ; fill your skins like sausages, tie the ends, and hang them in the chimney to smoke three days ; then put them into a sauce- pan of water, with salt, a clove of garlic, thyme, bay leaf, basil, and a bunch of parsley; boil them in this for three hours, drain, and let them cool. SETON. An artificial ulcer made under the skin by means of an instrument called a seton needle, which carries with it a portion of silk or thread that is moved backwards or forwards, and thus keeps up a constant imta- tion. Setons are frequently formed in the back of the neck for diseases of the head or eyes, or between two of the ribs in affections of the breast. They are occasionally of service by the new action which they introduce into the sys- tem, and also by their stimulus; but setons as well as issues, if long continued in the same place, very often cease to be efficacious. SEWING is the joining of two edges toge- ther; and if the edges happen to be good selvages they require only to be placed evenly, and to be pinned at short distances, or tacked slightly, to prevent puckering. Should the edges be raw, one edge must be turned down once, and the other must be turned down double the width, for the purpose of being folded back again in the middle, to form what is called the fell. If the edges be good selvages they require only to be placed evenly together, and to be pinned or tacked, that they may remain so. But if the edges be raw, then one edge must be turned down once, and the other edge must be turned down double the width, to admit of being folded back again in the middle to form the fell. Then hold the cloth or other material upright, firmly, with the thumb along the side of the first finger of the left hand, and support it with the second and third fingers. Point your needle towards the chest; and the stitches must lie straight across the seam, and not be taken too deep. Do not make a knot in your thread, but leave out one end of the thread, and sew it over with the first few stitches. Begin to sew along the side, commencing about the beginning of the nail. When you require a fresh thread leave an end of the thread you have been using, and the same length of the new one, and sew them both over neatly and carefully. When you have finished the sewing of the seam flatten it with the thumb-nail. Then proceed with the running and felling, by laying the raw edge of one of the parts once down, in the same manner as for the first fold of a hem, and then placing the other part upon it, a thi'ead or two below the double edge, and running them together, making the stitches short—about three threads up, and three threads down. The running having been finished, lay the seam down very smoothly, and hem on the other side. For the double seam, or sewing and Jelling, lay down a fold in the same manner as for a run-and-fell