HAR C 29 ] HAS habits of life should be regular, and the diet light and nutritive. HARSLET, PIG'S. Wash and dry some liver and sweetbreads; then beat some fat and lean pieces of pork till the meat is tender ; season with salt, pepper, sage, and onion, and when thoroughly incorporated put the whole into a caul, and fasten it tightly. Roast it by a hanging-jack or string. For sauce boil some port wine, water, and mustard, and put it into the dish. HARTSHORN CREAM. Boil Jib. of hartshorn shavings in three pints of water. When reduced to half a pint strain it through a jelly bag, put it to a pint of cream and J lb. of powder sugar, and give them one boil to- gether ; then put it into cups or glasses, and let them stand till cold, when turn them out on a dish. Stick some sliced blanched almonds on the top of each. White wine and sugar are usually eaten with them. HARTSHORN FLUMMERY. Boil ^ lb. of hartshorn shavings in three pints of water till reduced to a pint, strain it into a basin, and set it by till lukewarm ; then put to it a pint of thick wine, two spoonsful of oi-ange-flower water, and a sufficient quantity of powder sugar to sweeten it. Stir all these together till well mixed, dip the moulds in warm water, and put in the flummery. When cold turn them on a dish, with cream, white wine, and sugar mixed together and poured round them. Cut a few blanched almonds into slips lengthwise, and stick in the top of each. HARTSHORN JELLY. BoiU lb. of harts- horn shavings in a gallon of water till reduced one-third, strain it, and let it cool; then melt it again, and put in orange and lemon-peel to colour it; skim, and add thereto half a pint of white wine, the juice of two lemons, and |11). of lump sugar. Beat up the whites of four eggs to a; froth, stir the whole together, and pour it into tlje saucepan; let it boil two or three minutes, and when it is curdled and perfectly white have ready a jelly bag suspended over a china basin, into which pour the jelly, repeat- ing it several times till it is perfectly clear; then set another basin under it, have your glasses clean, and fill them; take some thin rind of lemons, and when you have filled your glasses throw the peel into the basin. After running all the jelly through the bag fill the rest of the glasses, which will, have the appear- ance of amber. Put in the sugar and lemon to your taste. : HARTSHORN, SPIRIT OF. This name was originally applied to the watery liquor obtained when harts' horns were submitted to destructive distillation. It consisted of a solu- tion of carbonate of ammonia, contaminated with empyreumatic oil. A similar liquor is now obtained in the distillation of bones in making animal charcoal, and this liquor is used as one of the sources of the ammonia of commerce. The liquid now sold as spirit of hartshorn is either a weak solution of ammonia, or a solution of carbonate of ammonia, or a mix- ture of the two. Burnt hartshorn is a powder obtained by burning pieces of deer's horn or other bone until quite white. It is really a mixture of chalk and phosphate of lime. Hartshorn shavings are obtained from the turners of bone and ivoi'y. By boiling these shavings in water a nutritive jelly is obtained. It is also used by straw-plait workers to stiffen the plait. HASH, COLD. Mince a nice white piece of veal; wash and core some anchovies; take some pickled oysters, pickled cucumbers, and a lemon ; shred and mix them with the veal, and place it in a dish; lay round it slices of veal, fillets of anchovies, pickled cucumbers sliced, whole pickled oysters, mushrooms, capers, and lettuces shred small; pour in oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper, and serve. HASHES. Meats dressed in this way should only simmer gently till just warmed through, because they have already been nearly, if noi quite done. In order to warm up made dishes put what may be left in a deep dish or large tureen, and when wanted set it in a stewpan of boiling water, letting it stand till the meat is heated sufficiently. The bain-marie, or water bath, is an excellent vessel to warm up ready- made dishes, as it neither wastes the sauce nor makes the meat tough. When this utensil is not at hand a Dutch oven will supply its place. In making hashes select those parts of the joint that are under-done; and in thus dressing the remnant of a leg of mutton take care to saw the bone in two; then twist paper round the ends, and send it up separately as a side dish with pai'sley. HASHES, STUFFING BALLS FOR. Take f lb. of bread crumbs, ^ lb. of suet, ^ a little lemon-peel, lemon thyme, parsley, | marjoram, and savory (all finely cnopped), a little nutmeg, mace, salt, white pepper, and Cayenne. Mix with two well-beaten eggs, divide into small balls, fry or boil them in clarified dripping or lard till of a nice light brown, and then dry them immediately before the fire. They will keep good two or three days. HASTY CUSTARD PUDDING. Put a quart of new milk on the fire to boil; then mix a tea-cupful of rice flour with a little milk, two eggs, and three spoonsful of sugar; beat it, and when the milk boils stir it in; let it boil five mhiutes, when pour it out on some