STR [ 467 ] STU otir them together as lightly as possible ; then mix them with the strawberries, pour the whole into a croustade, and bake it for an hour in a moderate oven. When done glaze it and serve. STRAWBERRY TART. Pick and put into a basin two quarts of the best scai-let straw- berries, and then add to them half a pint of thick clarified sugar and the same quantity of Madeira, with the juice of two or three lemons ; mix these well together without breaking the strawberries, and put them into a puff paste previously baked. Be careful to keep them very cool. STRYCHNIA is produced from the seed, usually called " a nut," of the Strychnos nux- voniica. It is a native of the coast of Coro- raandel, Bengal, Ceylon, Malabar, and many other parts of the east. It is a middle-sized tree, covered with a smooth ash-grey bark. The ■wood is white, hard, close-grained, and exceed- ingly bitter, and particularly that of the root, which is used by the natives to cure intermittent fevers and the bite of venomous snakes. The fruit is the size of a small orange, with a smooth hard shell, of a beautiful orange colour when ripe, filled with white gelatinous pulp, which is perfectly harmless, and is greedily eaten by birds. The seeds imbedded in the pulp are like a thick round lozenge, about the size of a shilling, whitish, hard, and homy, and in them the active principle is contained. They are used in the distillation of the spirits of the countries where they grow, to render them more intoxicating. The bark is that which is known in Europe as false angostura hark. The seed, called mix vomica, in very small doses often repeated, is stimulant and tonic, diuretic, diaphoretic, and laxative. It has long been employed in India, and was known as a medicine to the Arabian physicians. It has been recommendii in Europe as an antidote to the plague, as a remedy in inter- mittents, dyspepsia, dysentery, diarrhoea of debility, worms, hysteria, rheumatism, and hydrophobia. When the seed or strychnia is taken in large doses it produces the most fearful consequences. First, agitation and trembling, succeeded by stiffness and twitching of the limbs; these go on increasing, and at length comes a violent fit of spasm, in which the head is bent back and the spine stiffened, the legs extended and rigid, and the respiration checked by the fixing of the chest. Then comes a calm, during which the senses ai"e entire and unnaturally acute, to be succeeded by another and successive spasms more violent than the last, and then death ensues by suffocation. Nux vomica has been analysed, and found to contain two alkaline principles—strychnia, or strychnine, and brucia, or brucine, united with a peculiar acid called igasuric or strychnic acid. Strychnia is in the form of minute four-sided prisms, and is so poisonous tljat half a grain destroys a rabbit in five minutes in violent paroxysms of tetanus. Dr. Christison has killed a dog in two minutes with one-sixth part of a grain injected into the chest; and he has seen a wild boar killed in the same manner with the third of a grain in ten minutes. Brucia is in scaly crystals resembling talc flakes. It is obtained from the bark, and has 'the same action as strychnia, but with less intensity, strychnia being twelve-fold more powerful than brucia. For remedies see Potsoxs STUFFING FOR BOILED TURKEY. To the Stuffing for Hare add the soft part of twelve oysters, anchovy, or a little grated ham or tongue. Pork sausage meat is some- times used for stuffing turkeys and fowls; or it may be fried, and sent up as garnish. STUFFING FOR GOOSE OR DUCK. Chop about 2 ozs. of onions very finely, 1 oz. of green sage leaves, 4 ozs. of bread crumbs, the yolk and white of a boiled egg, and a little pepper, to which may be added a minced apple. STUFFING FOR HARE. Take 2 ozs. of beef suet chopped finely, 3 ozs. of bread crumbs, 1 drachm of parsley, ^ drachm of shallot, ] drachm of marjoram, thyme, or winter savory, the same quantity of grated lemon-peel, i drachm of nutmeg, and as much pepper and salt; mix the whole with the yolk and white of an egg till it is thoroughly stiff, put it into the hare, and sew it up. If the liver is sound it may be parboiled, minced finely, and added to these ingredients. STUFFINGS FOR FORCEMEAT. The poignancy of forcemeat should be in proportion to the savouriness of the dish to which it is an accompaniment, and therefore it follows that the variety of combinations is as great as in soups, gravies, or sauces. One general rule, however, to be observed in the composition of forcemeat is, that no one flavour be suffered to predominate over the rest. In making this elegant article great care must be taken to give it a due consistence, so that the balls should be of the moderate size of nutmegs, and may be cut easily without being hard or heavy. If they are for brown sauce flour and fry them; if for white, put them into boiling water, and let them boil for three minutes. The following lists of the materials for the composition of forcemeats will be a good general guide to the cook in the direction of her choice and appropriation:— The animal substances are parboiled sweet- breads, tongues, veal minced and pounded,