LAM LAM [ IIG ] dons of bacon, seasoned with salt, pepper, cloves, nutmeg, and a baj' leaf; add fat bacon pounded, small onions, nutmeg, and sweet herbs ; put these into the pie, and let it bake for three hours. When baked cut it open, skim off all the fat, pour in a ragout of oysters, and serve hot. LAMB PIE, RAISED. Cut the meat into slices, trim them neatl3% and lay them in the bottom of a stewpau or frying-pan, with loz. of butter, a tea-spoonful of lemon juice, and some pepper and salt; put them over a fire, turn them, and then set the pan by to cool. Raise four or five small pies of paste about the size of a large tea-cup, put some veal forcemeat at the bottom, and the lamb upon it; roll out the top one- eighth of an inch thick, close the edges, bake them half an hour, and when done take off the top, and pour in some good brown sauce. LAMB PIE, SAVOURY. Cut the lamb into pieces, and season them with pepper, salt, mace, cloves, and nutmeg, finely beaten. Make a good puff-paste crust, and put the meat into it, with a few lambs' stones and sweetbreads, seasoned the same as the meat; then put in some oysters and forcemeat balls, the yolks of hard eggs, and the tops of asparagus, about two inches long, first boiled green; put butter all over the pie, put on the lid, and let it bake for an hour and a half in a quick oven. In the meantime take a pint of gravy, the oyster liquor, a gill of red wine, and a little grated nutmeg ; mix all these together with the yolks of two or three eggs well beaten, and keep stirring it the same way all the time. When it boils pour it into the pie, put on -the lid again, and serve it to table. LAMB, QUARTER OF (en Crepine). Cut three onions into dice, and fry them in lard. When nearly done add a few shallots and parsley shred small, basil, salt, spice, four eggs, two spoonsful of cream, and half a pint of lamb's blood. Simmer these over the fire till pretty thick; have ready a quarter of lamb boned, taking care not to injure the skin ; put the above farce in the place of the bone, roll it up in a caul, and roast it, basting with butter and bread crumbs. Pass a salamander over to colour it, and serve it with a duck sauce. LAMB, QUARTER OF (with Heebs). Roll a bit of butter in flour, and boil it a mo- ment with a few bread crumbs, chopped parsley, f,hallots, green thyme, salt, pepper, a glass of white wine, and stock in proportion. The lamb being roasted, lift up the shoulder, and pour this sauQe between in the same manner as you generally do Seville orange, with pepper and salt. LAMB, QUARTER OF (Roasted and _ Laeded). Take a fore-quarter of lamb, lard the upper side of the joint with lean Dacon, and sprinkle the other side thickly with bread ci'umbs ; then cover with paper, to prevent the meat from being burnt, and roast it. When nearly done take it from the fire, and cover the part that has not been larded a second time with bread crumbs, seasoned with salt and parsley chopped very finely; then put the lamb again before a bright fire to brown it. Serve with a little vinegar poured over it. LAMB, RAGOUT OF. Cut the knuckle- bone off a fore-quarter of lamb, lard it with thiu pieces of bacon, flour it, and then put it into a stewpan, with a quart of stock or good gravy, a bundle of herbs, a little mace, two or three cloves, and a little whole pepper. Cover it closely, and let it stew pretty fast for half an hour ; pour off all the liquor, strain it, and keep the lamb hot in the pot till the sauce is ready. Take half a pint of oysters, flour them, fry them brown, drain off thoroughly the fat they were fried in, and skim off all the fat from the gravy; then pour it on the oysters, put in an anchovy, and two spoonsful of either red or white wine. Boil the whole together till reduced to just sufficient for a sauce; add some fresh mushrooms and some pickled, with the juice of half a lemon, or a spoonful of pickle. Lay the lamb in the dish, pour the sauce over it, and garnish with lemon. LAMB SAUCE. Roll a piece of butter in bread crumbs, shred parsley, and shallots, and boil it in a little stock and white wine (equal quantities). A few minutes ai'e suflEicient. Squeeze in a little lemon or orange juice. LAMB, SHOULDER OF. A shoulder of lamb of moderate size will require roasting from thi'ee quarters of an hour to an hour. When done put some good gravy into the dish with the lamb, and serve mint sauce in a boat. LAMB, SHOULDER OF (with Cucumbers). Bone the shoulder to the knuckle, and lard the inner part with bacon, rolled in pepper, salt, and spices ; tie it up in rather a long form, and braise it the same as a la Polonnaise. Drain them when done ; untie and glaze them. Prepare some cucumbers d la crime, on which lay the lamb, and serve. Endive, tomato sauce, or any other sauce you may choose, is equally good with the lamb. LAMB, SHOULDER OF (A la Dau- phine). Bone a shoulder of lamb to the knuckle; make a farce with truffles or mush- rooms, fat livers, parsley, shallots (all chopped small), grated bacon, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and two yolks of eggs; roll this into the shoul- der, and braise it with a little stock, a few slices of bacon, a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper, and salt. Serve it on stewed spinach.