[ 540 ] V E l\ y E R well together, and use 1 oz. to every pound of fiuit. If the fruit is liquid it ought to be dried over the fire. Mix in the salt powder in the manner butter is salted, put the fruit in pots, and cover it closely. If it is dry it will keep many years. Excellent for soups, sauces, and heightening the flavour of insipid fruit and vegetables. We have seen tamarinds from the East so prepared. VERJUICE, COMPOTE OF. Choose the largest unripe grapes, split thein open, take out the seeds, and throw the berries into cold water. Boil some water in a skillet, drain the fruit, and then put it into the skillet. When it rises to the surface take it from tlie fire, cover it, and let it stand. When cold di-ain and mix the verjuice with a sufficient quantity of clarified sugar, give it two or three boils together, remove it from the fire, skim, and pour it into the compotier. VERJUICE IMARMALADE. Take the seeds from your berries, put the berries, after being stoned, into a skillet of boiling water, wliich place on hot ashes for two hours that they may be quite green : at tlie end of that time pour the whole into a pan. AVhen cold press the juice from the grapes througli a sieve into a stewpan. and put it again on the fire tliat the moisture may evapoiute; then take it out qixickly, weigh it, boil an equal quantity of sugar to casse, mix the fruit with it, simmer together a little while, and then pour it into pots. VERJUICE. PRESERVED. Split and take the seeds from '-2 lbs. of sour grapes ; put the fruit into a skillet of boiling water, set it on the fire, give it one boil, and then leave it on a very slow fire for five or six hours, covered closely : at the end of that time the fruit will be green, and must be drained. Boil 2 lbs. of sugar to petite plume, boil it up twice with the pan covered, skim it well, and pour the preserve into jars. VERJUICE PRESERVED DRY. Scald the grapes as above, boil your sugar to perle, add your fruit, boil several times, and then pour the preserve into a pan; the next day drain off the syrup, boil it to grande perle, put in the verjuice, cover the pan, give it one boil, skim it, and put it aside. On the following day drain the verjuice, put it on slates, sprinkle sugar over, and dry it in the oven or on a stove. VERJUICE, SYRUP OF. Crush as many green grapes as will yield 6 lbs. of juice; strain the juice, first through a sieve and then through a jelly bag, tijl perfectly clear; boil 3 lbs. of sugar to piuvie, and pour the juice to it: take care the fire is a large one. Boil the whole to perle, then take it off the fire, and when the syruD is half cold bottle it. VERJUICE VINEGAR. In France it is made of acid grapes; in England of crab apples. The crab apples are to be gathered when the seeds blacken: they ought to be carefully picked and put to sweat, and then ground in a mill. Put them into hair bags, press them so that all the juice may be obtained, barrel, and allow it to to ferment. When that is over it must either be bunged up carefully or put into fumigated bottles, and well corked and waxed. Small quantities for family use are easily made like walnut catsup, and it is a better acid for many things than lemon, always at hand, and more economical; therefore attention should be paid to it. It is also excellent for punch and sherbet, with a little lemon or orange zest, and parti- cularly for giving a rich acid to soups, ragouts, and insipid fruits. VERMICELLI CREAM. Boil some ver- micelli in milk till it becomes quite a marmalade, and let it cool; then mix with it a pint of cream, some macaroni drops, orange flowers, lemon-peel (all chopped very fine), with a little pounded cinnamon, and five whole eggs well beaten; sweeten with powder sugar according to taste, pour it into the dish it is to be served in, and bake it as usual. VERMICELLI IN MILK. Boil the qiian- tity of milk you may require, and put into it ^ lb. of vermicelli jjeeled, and a sufficient quantity of sugar, and stir it frequently that the vermicelli may not form a paste: half an hour will be long enough to boil it. A little almond milk may be added when ready for table. VERMICELLI PIE. Season four pigeons with pepper and salt, stuff them with crumbs of bread, parsley cut small, and mixed together with butter; then butter a deep dish, and cover the bottom with vermicelli; make a puff paste, lay it on the dish, then place the pigeons with the breasts downwards, put a thick cover- ing of paste over all, and bake the pie in an oven moderately heated. When done turn the pie into another dish : the vermicelli will be on the top, and make a pretty appearance. VERMICELLI PUDDING. Boil } lb. of vermicelli with a little pounded cinnamon in a quart of milk. In the meantime mix 11). of melted butter with a pint of cream and tlio yolks of four eggs ; pour in the vermicelli when quite soft; add a little flour and beef marrow, and powder sugar to the taste ; beat all up for half an hour, tie it in a floured cloth, and boil it. VERMICELLI, QUEEN'S. Blanch about i lb. of vermicelli in boiling water, drain it, and throw it into some rich, well-seasoned stock When tender take it out of the soux),