ME A [ 196 ] ME A till tlie copper contains tlie whole of the liquor, by which lime it will, of course, be half evapo- rated. The scum must not be taken off, but must mix with the liipior whilst boiling by means of a jet. When this is done draw it off into under-backs by a cock at the bottom of the copper, and let it remain till it is only as warm as new milk; then turn it up, and suffer it to ferment in the vessel, where it will form a thick head. As soon as it has done working stop it down very closely, to keep the air from it as much as possible. When it is half a year old put it into bottles ; have them well worked, and keep them in the same vault the mead stood in whilst in the cask. Those who like mead to have an aromatic flavour may mix with it elder, rose- mary, and marjoram flowers, and use cinnamon, cloves, ginger, pepper, and cardamoms, in various proportions, according to taste. Others put in a mixture of thyme, eglantine, marjoram, and rosemary, with various spices. MEAD: To Make Small. To a gallon of water put 2 lbs. of honey and 1 lb. of sugar; boil for an hour, put in the whites of four eggs to raise the scum, and skim it quite clear whilst boiling ; then put it into a clean tub, and let it stand for a week, putting in a toast with honey to make it work; then turn it, put in the peels of three or four lemons, let it stand for a month, and then if it is not sufficiently fine put in more honey, and let it stand longer. MEAD, COWSLIP. Put 30 lbs. of honey into 15 gallons of water, and boil it till a gallon is wasted. Skim it, take it off the fire, and have ready sixteen lemons cut in half. Take a gallon of the liquor, and put it to the lemons ; pour the rest of the liquor into a tub, with seven pecks of cowslips, and let them stand all night; then put in the liquor with the lemons, eight spoonsful of new yeast, and a handful of sweet brier. Stir all well together, and let it work tln-ee or four days; then strain it, pour it into your cask, let it stand six months, and then bottle it off for use. MEAD, FRONTIGNAC. Take 50 lbs. of honey, 50 lbs. of fine raisins, and 50 gallons of water; boil about fifteen minutes, keeping it well skimmed ; put it in a tub to work, and add to it a pint of ale yeast, letting it work until the yeast begins to fall. When taken clear off turn it with the raisins, and throw into the cask a quart of white elder flowers. Take care to attend to it in change of weather. Let it continue in the ^ask for twelve months, then fine it down with wine fining, and put it into bottles. MEAD SACK. To every gallon of water put 4 lbs. of honey, and boil it three quarters of an hour, carefully skimming it. To eveiy gallon add 1 oz. of hops; boil for half an hour, and let it stand till the following day ; tlien put it into a cask, and to thirteen gallons of the liquor add a quart of brandy. Stop it lightly till the fenuentation is over, and then stop it very closely. If you make a large cask keep it in the cask for one vear. MEADOW SAFFRON. See Colchicum and Eau Medicinale 0e Husson. MEALS. Number OF Meals. Dr. Paris says, though the advantage of regular meals at stated periods is desirable, it has been much disputed how many should be allowed in the day. Some physicians have considered one, others two, three, or even five necessary. It is, perhaps, im- possible to lay down a general rule that shall apply to eveiy particular case. In some persons the food rarely remains longer than three hours in the stomach ; in others four, five, or even six hours. It is evident that the repetition of the meals ought to be regulated by this cir- cumstance, always avoiding the extremes of long fasting and repletion. Some nations havo been satisfied with one meal a day; but the stomach would thus be oppressed with too large a quantity, and in the interval would suffer froni the want of some nourishment in it. Such a plan, therefore, is neither calculated for per- sons of robust health, and who are engaged in much bodily exertion, and consequently require large supplies, nor for those of a weak habit, who are not able either to take or to digest such a quantity of aliment in a single meal as will be sufficient to supply the waste of the body during twenty-four hours. Celsus recommends the healthy to take food twice in tlie day rather than once; and Sanctorius says that the body becomes more heavy and uneasy after six pounds taken at one meal than after eight taken at three, and that he who makes but one meal in the day, let him eat much or little, is pursuing a system that must ultimately injure him. An invalid may safely take three frugal meals; or, on some occasions, even four, provided a certain quantity of exercise be insisted upon. It is reported that, when Alexander the Great turned away his cooks on proceeding upon a march, he observed that he had no further occasion for such assistants, as he can-ied with him superior cooks—a long morning's journey to create an appetite for his dinner, and a frugal dinner to give a relish to his supper. Quality of the different Meals. Break- fast is, perhaps, the most natural and not the least important of our meals; for, as many hours must have intervened since the last meal, the stomach ought to be in a condition to receive a fresh supply of aliment. As all the food in the body has during the night been digested, \ye might presume that a person in the morning