C 151 ] LIN LIN efficacious medicine :—Take of soft soap 5 ozs. ; proof spirit, 14 ozs.; oil of rosemary, 1 fluid drachm; oil of origanum, | fluid drachm ; camphor, 3 drachms ; rectified spirit of wine, 4 ozs. Dissolve the soft soap in the proof spirit; dissolve the oils of rosemary, origanum, and camphor in the rectified spirit, and mix the whole together. Liniment of Turpentine. Take of cerate of resin 8 ozs.; oil of turpentine, 4 ozs. Melt the cerate, then add to it the oil of turpentine, and mix. This liniment has been introduced as a dress- ing to bums immediately after they happen, and until the loosening of the eschars. The plan of treating bums is, first, to bathe the parts with warm oil of turpentine, and then to apply plasters of this liniment thickly spread over them, the strength being at the same time supported with wine, opium, and cordials. After the life of the parts appears to be restored purges are given, the cordials omitted, and mild emollient dressings applied. Liniment of Veedigris. Take of verdigris powdered 1 oz.; vinegar, 7 fluid ozs.; honey, 14 ozs. Dissolve the verdigris in the vinegar, and strain it through a linen cloth ; then, having added the honey, boil down the mixture to a proper consistence. This preparation, commonly called Mgypti- aeum, is detergent and escharotic. It is used for taking down fungous flesh, and, consider- ably diluted, is a useful stimulant to foul ulcers. It is also used to stimulate old and obstinate ulcers, and to the cracked heels, &c., of horses. LINSEED, or Lintseed, is produced by the flax plant, Linum usitatissmum. These seeds are esteemed for their emollient and anodyne virtues. They are used externally in cataplasms to mitigate the pain of inflamed tumours. Internally, a weak infusion of them, by way of tea, is recommended in coughs as an excellent pectoral, and as being very service- able in pleurisies, nephritic complaints, and suppressions of urine. Linseed has likewise been employed in Asia, and, during times of scarcity, in Europe, as food ; but it iumishes neither an agreeable nor a wholesome aliment. This seed yields by expression an oil called linseed oil. In its preparation on a large scale the seeds are usually roasted before being pressed, in order to destroy the gummy matter contained in their exterior coating. The oil is thus obtained more free from mucilage, but more highly coloured and more acrid than that obtained by cold expression. It differs from most other oils in having a tendency to con- solidate and harden by long exposure to the air, and hence it is highly useful in painting. and in the manufacture of printers' ink. Used medicinally it is laxative in a dose of 1 fluid oz.; but, on account of its disagreeable taste, it is seldom given internally. It has, however, been highly recommended as a cure for piles in the dose of 2 fluid ozs. of the fresh oil every moming and evening. When the seed is ground it is called linseed meal, and is em- ployed in emollient poultices to assuage the pain of inflamed tumours {see Cataplasm); and after being crushed, and the oil expressed, the residue forms a cake, which has been long used as a nutritious and fattening food for cattle, as well as a valuable manure. Linseed is demul- cent and emollient. The mucilage obtained by infusing the entire seeds in boiling water, in the proportion of ^ oz. to a pint, is much and very advantageously employed in catarrh, dysentery, nephritic and calculous complaints, strangury, and other diseases of the mucous membrane of the lungs, intestines, and urinary passages. This oil possesses particularly a tendency to harden and become solid on long exposure to the air. It is this peculiar quality that is taken advantage of in its application to furniture, and which, with a little patience and no hard rubbing, will produce a varnish far superior in durability, beauty, and usefulness to French polish, or any mixture for the purpose which we have ever seen. A very little linseed oil is to be poured into a saucer, and then with a small piece of clean rag smear the furniture with it. In a few minutes wipe it off with an old duster kept for the pur- pose, and then rub the tables, &c., quite clean with a second cloth. This simple, easy opera- tion, performed regularly once a week, will gradually produce a polish that is unrivalled ; for, unless it were to be washed with soap, it will not injure. Boiling water even might be poured over it with impunity ; indeed, occasional washing with plain water is an advantage to it. Unlike the easily spoiled varnishes of the shops, furniture that is rubbed with this oil is not so readily scratched; and if it be, the next week's application will nearly obliterate the marks. Again, the pores of the wood being filled with the application, it becomes very hard, and is able to resist the attacks of insects. LINT, in surgery, signifies linen scraped so as to form a soft woolly substance, which is employed in dressing wounds. It is made into various forms, denominated according to the shape of which they consist. Thus, if it be oval, it is called a pledget; and if cylindrical it is termed a dossil. The purposes to which lint is applied are :— 1. To prevent the flow of blood in fresh wounds, by filling them with this absorbent