LEA LEA [ 130 ] is cheese. Colour it v?ith a salamander, pour some good stock over, and serve it. LAZANGES. The only difference between these and nouilles is that the lazanges are cut rather larger. Great care must be taken not to dress them too much. IjEAD, as v?e all know, speedily becomes dull when exposed to the air, the dulness arising from a greyish blue crust covering the surface of the metal. That crust is first an oxide and then a carbonate of lead, formed by the metal combining first with the oxygen, and then with the carbonic acid of the air. This crust was known to the Eomans, and is still known as ceruse. Vitruvius, the Roman archi- tect, in the days of Augustus, noticed that this ceruse was formed in lead pipes, and, on account of its poisonous quality, forbade the use of such pipes for conveying water for domestic use. Dr. Christison and other good authorities found that distilled water, deprived of its gases and excluded from contact with the air, has no action whatever on lead. If this water contains the customary gases the surface of the metal soon becomes white, but this speedily ceases if the surface of the water be not exposed to the air. In that case, and if the air has free access, a white powder soon forms around the lead ; and this increases until, after a few days, a large number of white pearly scales ai'e produced, •which partly float in the water, but are chiefly deposited on the bottom of the vessel. These scales are, on analysis, found to be a carbonate. During this experiment a very minute quantity of lead is actually dissolved in the water. Our common spring water, however, contains more or less of neutral salts, and, to make the inquiry practically useful, it becomes necessary to ascertain their influence in promoting or impeding the action on the lead. Guyton- Morveau found that if he added a solution of either sulphate of lime or muriate of soda (salts very common in spring water), to distilled water, its power of attacking lead was destroyed. Dr. Christison extended this investigation to many other salts, and found that they all impaired the power of the water, and that even when the carbonate was formed in very minute quantities it was deposited so slowly, and adhered so closely to the lead, that it could hardly be supposed to diffuse itself through the liquid. It is an evident deduction from the researches of Dr. Christison, that in proportion to the purity of the water and the presence of carbonic acid will be the action on the metal. A very few years since the royal buckhounds ■were attacked with a disease for which no other name could be suggested but " foot lameness." It defied all veterinary skill, until it was sug- gested that, as nearly ail the pack were similarly- afflicted, there must be some one common cause for its occurrence. Then it was sunnised that it was the soil's malaria; but upon further examination it was found that the water was conveyed to the troughs through a lead pipe. The pipe was removed, and the foot lameness, which was really paralysis, disappeared. Different articles of food or drink may be contaminated with this substance. If the food contain any free vegetable acids or saline preparations it will attack utensils made of lead, and oxidate, and, indeed, in some cases dissolve them. This circumstance seems to have been known to the ancients. Their tin was all adulterated with lead ; and Galen, assigning this as a reason, cautions against the use of tinned vessels, and recommends the pre- servation of medicines in glass ones. Earthen vessels glazed with lead are also very apt to be acted on by vegetable acids. Vinegar corrodes them, and if thei'e be any particle of food within, the oxide or acetate tliat is produced will mix with it. A case occurred some years ago at Northampton, in America, where a family, consisting of eight individuals, were all seized with colic pains, strong con- vidsive spasms of the intestines, frequent vomit- ings, and obstinate costiveness, in consequence of eating stewed apples which had been kept for some months in a large earthen vessel. Ou examination the glazing was found corroded, and a solution from the stewed apples exhibited the chemical proofs indicative of the metal. Dr. Eberle also states that he saw four cases in 1815, arising from apple butter being kept in these vessels. On examining one of them a thin crust of acetate of lead was seen covering its internal surface. Milk slightly sour has also acted on vessels of this description. The adulteration of wines by lead appears to be an old device, and it has been much used, since it destroys their austerity, gives them a sweet taste, and renders them saleable. Beckmann supposes that the ancients were acquainted with the fact that lead rendered harsh wines milder; for Pliny remarks that, when the Greek and Eoman wine merchants wished to try whether their wine was spoiled, they immersed in it a plate of lead, which could only be to observe whether by corrosion the colour of the lead was changed. It was not until the fifteenth century that the use of lead in wines became so notorious as to call for prohibitions on the part of governments in Germany; and the adulteration of this article appears to have been a subject of deliberation at the diet of Rothenburgh in 1487, and the diet of Worms in 1495. In France this species of villany was carried to a great excess. The Duke