PAP [ 295 ] TAN batter, and make it as thin as a wafer ; fry it only on one side, put it in a dish, and grate sugar upon each. PANCAKES, WATER. Stir a quart of warm water in sufficient flour to make a batter of moderate thickness ; dissolve a tea-spoonful of saleratus, with a little salt, into a tea-cupful of buttermilk or sour cream ; beat it well, put a little lard in a frying-pan, and when it is hot fry the pancakes. They are much better to be eaten hot, with sauce, sugar, and cream, or any- thing you may fancy. This is a very cheap dish, and has been thought nearly equal to pancakes made with milk and eggs. PAPER. Every quire of paper consists of twenty-four or twenty-five sheets (the larger number refers to paper made use of in printing), and each ream contains twenty quires. In the manufacture many sheets are damaged: these, in sorting, are put together, and two of the worst quires, containing only about twenty sheets, are placed on the outsides of the ream, and are called outside quires. The reams are tied up in wrappers made of the settling of the vat, and they are then fit for sale. Blotting Papeb, and paper used for filtering fluids, is paper not sized, into which, therefore, the ink readily sinks. The best filtering paper is made of woollen rags chosen for the purpose. Pasteboaed is made in a similar way to that of paper, and when it is wanted very thick it is made by having sheets pasted one upon another. There is, however, a kind of thick pasteboard, called millboard, used for the covers of books, which is made at once. It is composed, like brown paper, of very coarse rags, old- ropes, &c. Wove or Woven Paper is made in moulds, the wires of which are exceedingly fine, of equal thickness, and woven or latticed one within another. The marks, therefore, of these are easily pressed out so as to be scarcely visible. PAPER CASTS : To Make. Stifle, unsized, common white paper is the best. It should be well damped, and, when applied to sculpture, still retaining its colour. Not to injure the latter, care should be taken that the side of the paper placed on the figures be dry, not that which has been sponged. The paper, when applied to the sculpture, should be evenly patted with a napkin folded rather stiffly ; and if any part of the figures or hieroglyphics be in intaglio, or elaborately worked, it is better to press the paper over that part with the fingers. Five minutes are quite sufficient to make a cast of this description, and when taken off the wall it should be laid on the ground to dry. PAPER, COPYING. Make a stiff ointment with butter or lard and lampblack, and smear it thinly and evenly over soft writing paper by means of a piece of flannel, and then wipe off the redundant portion with a piece of soft rag. Placed on paper, and written on with a style or solid pen. By repeating the arrangement two or three copies of a letter may be obtained at once. This paper, set up in a case, forms the ordinary manifold writer. PAPER, MARBLING. (See Marbling.) Another mode of marbling is as follows :— Make a tolerably thick size or paste of flour and water, to which add a little powdered alum, and then boil it in the manner of glovers' paste, &c. Put some of the size, when cool, into several pots, and mix with it such kinds of colours, or other matters used in staining and dyeing, as are held in esteem. Have ready a painter's brush to each pot, and with any of the brushes spread a quantity of the fore-mentioned size very evenly on a flat piece of marble or other kind of smooth stone, or on a smooth board or a table, according to the length or width of the piece of silk, linen, cotton, or sheet of paper. On the coloured size, thus spread, lay a strong plate of glass, or one of tin or copper, or a thin piece of board, pressing the plate (of whatever sort) gently with the hand on every part. Raise the plate by lifting up one end, and it will be found veined in every direction by the adhe- siveness of the size ; immediately lay the plate, thus prepared, on the silk, linen, or other article, and with the hand again gently press on every part of the plate, which will vein or marble the silk, &c., with the same figures as were on the sized plate. If the plate of glass (which is preferable, but exceptionable on account of its brittleness) be not pressed too hard, a second impression, with a beautiful sort of smaller-sized veins, may be had from the first colouring ; and, if two different colours are desired on the same surface, there needs only are petition of the pro- cess with the size, containing staining ingre- dients and the other favourite colouring sub- stances. A neat sort of tortoiseshell appearance, and a great variety of expressive figures, may be produced in this way, as also by various actions of the fingers upon the plate, before the size loses its moisture, and likewise by many times folding the silk, linen, or other material of flexible texture. PAPER, TRACING. Copying Paper. PAPERING ROOMS. We take pride in selecting suitable and particular colours for each sitting-room, and adapting the furniture to its style and requirements. This, as regards furniture, is a necessary distinction; and in large houses, and with large means, variety is un- objectionable in every department; but in small houses the effect is extremely good when the sitting-rooms, passage, staircase, &c., are papered