JAP JAP [ 89 ] varnishes, with respect to the colours of the ground, hold equally with regard to those of the painting. Where brightness is the most ma- terial point, and a tinge of yellow will injure it, seed-lac gives way to the whiter gums ; but uhere hardness and a greater tenacity are essen- tial the seed-lac must be adhered to. Where both are so necessary that reciprocally one should give way to the other, it is usual to adopt a mixed varnish. This mixed varnish is made of the picked seed-lac. The common seed- lac varnish, the most useful preparation of the ]<ind, may be thus made:—Take 3 ozs. of seed- lac, and put it into water, to free it from the sticks and filth intermixed with it. To do this stir it about, and then pour off the water, adding fresh quantities till it be freed from all impurities; then dry it, powder it grossly, and put it, with a pint of rectified spirit of wine, into a bottle, of which it will not fill above fwo-thirds. Shake the mixture, place the bottle in a gentle heat till the seed-lac be dissolved, and in the meantime repeat the shaking; then pour off all that can be obtained clear, strain the remainder through a coarse cloth, and the varnish thus prepared is kept for use in a well-stoppered bottle. In using the seed-lac or white varnish the substance employed in polishing should be itself white where a pure white of a great clearness is desired, whereas the browner sorts of polishing dust are cheaper, and may be used in other cases with greater despatch. The work to be varnished is placed near a fire or stove, and made perfectly dry ; the varnish is then rubbed over it by the brushes made for that purpose, beginning in the middle, and passing the brush to one end, and then with another stroke from the middle passing to the other. Where it can be possibly avoided no part should be crossed or twice passed over in forming one coat. When one coat is dry another is laid over it; and this process is continued at least six times, or more, if, on trial, the varnish be not sufficiently thick to bear the polish without laying bare the colour underneath. When a sufficient number of coats have been thus laid on the work it is fit to be polished. In common cases this is done by rubbing it with a rag dipped in tripoli or rotten-stone finely powdered; but towards the end of the rubbing a little oil of any kind is used with the powder. When the work is sufficiently bright and glossy it is rubbed with oil alone, to clean it from the powder, and give a brighter lustre. In the case of white grounds, instead of tripoli or rotten-stone, fine putty or whiting is used, both of which are washed over, to prevent the danger of damaging the work from sand or gritty matter with which they may happen to be mixed. It is an improvement in japan work to harden the varnish by heat, which, in every degree that it can be applied, short of what would burn or calcine the matter, gives it a firmer and stronger texture. Where metal forms the body a hot stove is used, and the work continued in it a considerable time, especially if the heat be gradually increased; but where the work is of wood heat is sparingly used, as it is liable to warp or shrink the body, and injure its general figure. White Japan Grounds. The nearest ap- proach to a perfect white varnish already known is made by the following composition:— Take flake-white, or white-lead, washed over and ground up with one^sixth of its weight of starch, and then dried ; temper it properly for spreading with mastic varnish, and lay these on the substance to be japanned, prepared either with or without the under coat of whiting, as ordered above; and then varnish it over with five or six coats of the following varnish:— From a quantity of the best seed-lac pick out all the clearest and whitest grains, reserving the more coloured and fouler parts for the coarse varnishes, such as those used for priming or preparing wood or leather. Take of this picked lac 2 ozs., and of gum animi 3 ozs.; reduce them to a gross powder, dissolve them in about a quart of spirits of wine, and strain off the clear varnish. The seed-lac wiU give a slight tinge to this composition, but it cannot be avoided when hard varnish is wanted, though, when a softer will answer the end, the proportion may be diminished, and a little crude turpentine added to the gum animi to take off the brittleness. A very good varnish, entirely free from brittle- ness, may be formed by dissolving as much gum animi as the oil will take in old nut or poppy oil. This must be boiled gently when the gum is put into it. The ground of white colour itself is laid on in this varnish, and then a coat or two of it put over the ground ; but when used it jnust be well diluted with oil of turpen- tine. This, though free from brittleness, is liable to suffer by being indented or bruised by any slight strokes; and it will not bear any polish, but may be brought to a smooth surface without, if judiciously managed in the laying it on. It is tedious diying, and requires time where several coats are laid on, as the last should be without oil of turpentine. Yellow Japan Ohounds. For bright yellow grounds employ King's yellow or turpeth mineral, either alone or mixed with fins Dutch pink. The effect may be heightened by dis- solving turmeric root in the spirits of wine, of which the upper or polishing coat is made. The spirits of wine must be strained from off the dregs before the seed-lac be added to it to