SUM SUG [ 472 ] end. To use this simple saccliarometer, nearly fill the tube with s^'rap, iuto which plunge the rod, and according to the degree it marks on the syrup it denotes the stage. Tlius the petite lisse is mai'ked 29°, the grande lisse 32°, and so on. To the grande lisse succeeds the petite perle (33°), when, on dipping the skimmer into the syrup and letting it trickle, you perceive small pearls in the drops of sugar. At the grande perle (34°) it assumes still greater consistence in the fingers, and the pearls are stronger and more numerous. Ki\\\Q petite jilume or souffle {^7°), if you take up some syrup witli the skimmer and blow through it, some drops will escape on the other side. At the grande plume (38°) the drops increase in number and firmness. In pressing the syrup between the fingers it should so cement them together as to cause a perceptible report in detaching them. At the petit houlet (40°) dip your finger into cold water, take up some syrup, and then dip your finger again iuto the water, when the syrup I'eceives the con- sistence of glue. The gros boulet is still firmer; when it breaks it is the petite casse; when more brittle still, the grande casse, which makes a noise when thrown into water. Next it reaches the caramel blond, and next the caramel noir. The instrument will not mark more than 40°, else it would give 48° to the caramel. The whole of this operation must be conducted over a brisk fire. SUGAR: To Clabify. See Clariftixg Sugar. SUGAR, COARSE BROWN: To Clarify. Suppose you take 50 lbs., put it in a pan that will hold a third more thart the required quantity, and pour in twenty pints of water, but first well mixed with five whites of eggs; take 5 lbs. of small branch charcoal, finely pounded and mixed in the pan over the fire, and let it boil: it will look as black as ink. If it rises too fast add a little cold water, skim, and then strain it through a bag: it must repeatedly be returned till it comes out as clear as clarified loaf sugar. Sugar prepared according to the above method is greatly preferred to sugar in its raw state in making iellies, syrups, &c. SUGAR, COLOURING. An important thing to be attended to in confectionery pi'eparations is colouring; and here families ought to be on their guard against the nefarious practices too common among pastrycooks, of using chromate of lead, copper, verdigris, rose pink, vermilion, powder blue, with similar poisonous and un- wholesome ingredients, to give a fine appearance to the articles of luxury sold in their shops. See Colouring. SUGAR, DEVICES IN. Steep some gum dragon iu rose water, and with a little double- refined sugar make it into a paste; colour it to your fancy, and make it into such shapes as you please. SUGAR A LA NEIGE. Blanch I lb. of bitter almonds, pound them to a very fine paste in a marble mortar with the whites of four eggs, and when perfectly smooth add 1 lb. of the best lump sugar in powder, and five or six more whites of eggs; stir all well together until of such consistence that it may be kneaded without adhering to the hands ; divide this preparation into two parts, one of which tinge of a red colour, either with bole armenia or cochineal, and perfume it with essential oil of roses or bergamot; leave the other portion of the paste white, but flavour it as follows:—Grate the rinds of two fine sound lemons on a small piece of sugar, sci'ape off the surface, aud when pounded in a small mortar work it into the uncoloured portion of paste ; then roll it out about half an inch in thickness, having pre- viously sprinkled the slab with powder sugar; cut it with a tin paste cutter about two inches in diameter, arrange the pieces on white papei", which place on a baking tin, and put them into a moderate oven for about three quarters of a7i hour. Proceed in the same manner with the coloured paste. When cold detach them from the paper. SUGAR PASTE. Take 1 lb. of flour, ilb. of sugar, \ lb. of butter, a little salt, and an egg: mix the whole together with a little water. This paste may be used for any second-course dish. SUGAR VINEGAR. Fill a copper with the water required, and to every gallon add 1 lb. of good moist sugar: take care that it is pi'operly weighed. Do not trust to any one till the sugar is properly dissolved: boil and skim it well. When of a proper heat put in toast with yeast paste, and a bit of thin canvas over the bungliole, or a bit of pricked paper; put it in the sun, or in a warm corner of the kitchen: it will be strong vinegar in three months. Bottle and cork it well. If the same cask or bottle is filled when the vinegar is bottled the next vinegar will make much sooner. SULPHUR. See Brimstone. SUMACH. The family of the Bhuses, or sumachs, are marked by various qualities. Mr. Hogg thus notices them in his valuable work entitled " The Vegetable Kingdom." The bark of Rhus cotinus, the wild olive, or Venice sumach, is aromatic aud astringent, and is enumerated as one of the substitutes for Peruvian bark. The wood is much used in Greece for dyeing wool of a beautiful yellow colour, aud constitutes what is called young fustic. The whole plant is used in Italy for tanning, and is there called scotino. R. me- topium yields a great quantity of gummy resin,