r 541 ] VIN VER and put it into a tureen; thicken the soup with eight well-beaten eggs, mixed with half a pint of cream, and pour it, when quite hot, upon the vermicelli. VERMICELLI SOUP (1). Take as much good stock as you will require for your tureen, strain and set it on the fire, and when it boils put in the vermicelli, and let it simmer for half an hour by a slow fire, that the vermicelli may not burst. The soup ought not to be veiy thick. Half a pound will be sufficient for eight or ten persons. VERMICELLI SOUP (2). Having a pre- pared soup ready boiling, drop in the vermicelli in such a manner that it may not ball, and stir it till it has taken properly; rasp some Par- mesan and Gruyere cheese, and strew it into the soup, or send it to table on a separate dish. When these cheeses are not at hand use an old Dutch one : the small ones are excellent for this purpose. All Italian pastes are put in in the same manner. It is a folly to make these pastes into a thickening, as ground rice, fine llour, or potato starch answers as well, at so much less expense. VERMICELLI SOUP WITH ONIONS. Cut the best part of some onions into very thin pieces, and fry them lightly in a little butter; then add as much stock as you require for your soup, season it with salt and pepper, put in your vermicelli, and boil for half an hour. If you desire to have merely the flavour of the onions, strain the soup through a tammy before you serve it. VERMILION. See Mercury. VERTIGO. See Giddiness. VESPETRO, Take i lb. of angelica, cori- ander, fennel, and caraway seeds, the rinds of four lemons, and as many oranges: .infuse all these in two gallons and a half of brandy, closing the vessel hermetically. In five days' time distil in the bain-marie alembic, and draw from the above quantities five quarts of liquor; dissolve 7 lbs. of sugar in clear river water, add this syrup to the liquor, filter, and bottle it. VICHY. The town of Vichy is situated in a very fertile plain, watered by the river Allier, full of vineyards and fruit trees. This plain, which is not far distant from the lofty mountains of Auvergne, abounds with springs of different kinds, hot, tepid, and cold waters being found here almost contiguous to each other. There are six sources at Vichy, which vary a little in temperature, and in the proportion of their foreign contents. They all leave in their channels a yellowish mud, which is principally oxide of ii'on, and they have a saline and bitter taste. They are consequently warm, chalybeate, and alkaline aperient waters, and are serviceable in all disorders of the stomach attended with acidity and flatulence; in bilious diarrhoea and colic, arising from derangements of the hepatic organ; and in a sluggish torpid state of the bowels, causing loss of appetite and in'egularity in the functions of the whole body. The employment of these warm waters for the purpose of bathing extends their utihty to rheumatism, sciatica, gout, and many other diseases. In these cases the internal use of the waters very properly accompanies the external, particularly in many of the disorders peculiar to the female sex, owing to a defect in the func- tions of the uterine system. The Vichy water is prepared artificially as follows :— Grains. Bicarbonate of soda . .1018 Sulphate of soda (crystals) , . 70 Chloride of sodium . . . 35 Chloride of calcium . . 95 Sulphate of magnesia. . . 15 Protosulphate of iion . . 3 The salts must be dissolved in two gallons of water, and be then changed like soda water with five volumes of carbonic acid gas. VINEGAR. This is an acid liquor ^re- pared by a second fermentation from various liquors, such as wine, cyder, perry, beer, mead, skimmed milk, &c.; but the most common method of making it in England is from malt, and the process is as follows :—Infuse a quan- tity of malt in hot water for an hour and a half, then pour it into a cooler. As soon as the infu- sion is sufficiently cold put it into deep tuns, add yeast to it, and leave it to ferment for four or five days, after which put the liquor into barrels in a room heated with stoves, so that a moderate warmth may be kept up for six weeks, and the fermentation continue regu- larly. By the end of that time the whole will be completely soured, and must now be changed into other barrels; lay a tile on the bung-holes to keep out the wet, but not so closely as to prevent a free circulation of air, and tlien place them in the open air for four or five months, according as the weather is warm or otherwise : during the whole of this period the fermentation proceeds, and at the end the vinegar is nearly done. The next operation is this :—The vinegar is poured into large vessels called rape tuns, to which there are false bottoms covered with rape ; that is, the refuse of raisins or other fruit from which wine has been made. Fill one of these tuns entirely with the vinegar, and another about three-fourths full, and every day take a portion of the liquor out of the fullest barrel, and put it into the other, until the vinegar is in a fit state to be drawn off, when it must be closely barreled. Vinegar may be also made in much smaller