[ 162 ] LOG LOG usually but so many brancheg of four massive pieces of iron, capable of being simultaneously projected or retracted by a fixed or removable handle in the centre of the door, the actual lock being but small, and merely intended to move an apparatus by which the great bolts are themselves locked or held fast, so that the key need not bear any proportion to the magnitude of the bolts by which the door is secured. In such cases a single lock may be made to serve for securing all the bolts ; but in an ex- cellent quadruple lock invented by Mr. Dace, of Wolverhampton, rewarded by the Society of Arts in 1823, and published in the forty-second volume of their "Transactions," p. 125, four bolts, each secured by a distinct set of tumblers resembling those used in Ghubb's locks, are shot in succession by a single key in one com- plete revolution. To pick this lock, therefore, would require as much time and trouble as to pick four distinct locks of the same kind. In conclusion, without attempting even to enu- merate the various kinds of locks in common use, we may notice two useful inventions relating to street-door locks. Of the contrivances for moving draw-back and other bolts by means of fixed handles we have said nothing, as these are matters readily understood by an inspection of any common door lock, and are not essentially connected with the principles of security. It is a defect of ordinary draw-back locks that occa- sionally, from want of oil, from the bevelled end of the bolt becoming rusty, or from some other cause, they will not close without slamming the door violently, and are liable not to act at all, 60 that the door may be, to all appearance, shut properly, without the bolt shooting into its socket. To remedy these inconveniences Mr. Bullock devised, and submitted to the Society of Arts in 1801, a very simple addition to the ordinary door lock, consisting of an internal catch, which detains the bolt when it is drawn back, but is released, the instant the door is thoroughly closed, by the pressure of a small projecting piece against the cbeek or jamb of the doorway. The details are fully given in the Society's "Transactions," vol. xix., pp. 290-293. The second invention referred to is Ghubb's combination latch, which combines the simple lifting action of the ordinary French latch, or that which opens with a handle inside the door, and with a key from without, with much of the security of a tumbler lock. In it two, three, four, or more distinct latches are mounted, like a series of tumblers, upon one axis, and made to shut into or behind a double catch, in such a ■way that they can only be disengaged from it by being all of them raised at once to one exact height, by an arrangement similar to that by •which a series of tumblers are raised. LOGKED JAW, or Tetanus, has been noticed in its slighter forms under the heads GoNVULSioNS and Gramp. This disease is characterised by a spasmodi rigidity of the whole body. There are several varieties of it : 1. OpistJwtonos, where the body is thrown back by spasmodic contractions of the muscles; 2. Emprosthotonos, the body being bent forward; 3. Trismxis, locked jaw ; although these are only modifications of one and the same disease. Tetanus is often symptomatic of vene- real affections and worms. The above affections arise more frequently in warm climates than in cold ones, and are very apt to occur where much rain or moisture quickly succeeds excessively dry and sultry wea- ther. They attack persons of all ages, sexes, constitutions, and complexions, but the male sex more frequently than the female, and those of a robust and vigorous constitution sooner than those of a weaker habit. They are occa- sioned by exposure to cold while under a state of profuse perspiration, sleeping in the open air on damp ground, or by the pressure of irritating substances in the stomach and bowels, such as worms ; or by some irritation of the nerves, in consequence of local injury by puncture, in- cision, or laceration. If the disease has been brought on in conse- quence of a puncture, wound, or any external injury, the symptoms show themselves generally about the eighth or ninth day, and are almost sure to prove fatal before the tenth day; but where it proceeds from an exposure to cold they generally make their appearance much sooner. The disease makes its attack in some cases suddenly and with great violence ; but it most generally happens that it commences in a more gradual manner, coming on by a slight stiffness, being at first perceived in the back part of the neck, which in a short time con- siderably increases, and ultimately renders the motion of the head both difficult and painful. With this stiffness of the head there is also an uneasy sensation at the root of the tongue, with some difficulty of swallowing; and great light- ness is felt about the chest, with pain at the extremity of the breast-bone, shooting into tlie back. A stiffness also takes place in the jaws, which soon increases to such a height that the teeth become so closely fixed together as not to allow of the smallest opening. When the tetanic affection is confined to the jaw the disease is called locked jaw. In some cases the spasmodic affection extends no further; in others the spasms, at this stage of the disease, returning with great frequency, become like- wise more general, affecting not only the muscles of the neck and jaws, but likewise those of the whole of the back-bone, so as to