C 83 3 IRO ISI end, and twenty-six inches wide at the other. Having covered the board with a blanket or suitable piece of flannel, let it rest upon a thin block of wood at each end, to prevent it from creasing the skirt beneath. IRONS, FIRE. See Anti-Atteition, Baes (Bright), and Ieon. ISINGLASS. The best is made in Russia from the air bladders of various species of sturgeon, but it is prepared from other fish. The sinewy parts of the fish are boiled in water till they are dissolved; then the viscid liquor is strained and suffered to cool. When cold the fat is carefully taken off, the liquor again boiled to a due consistence, then cut in pieces, and rolled into a semicircular twist, in which state they are suspended on a string till carefully dried. The sounds or air bladders of fresh-water fish, in general, are the most transparent, flexible, and delicate substances, and consequently furnish the finest isinglass; but the intestines and peritoneum of the fish constitute inferior sorts of this article, denominated hook and ordtaary staple. Isinglass is most successfully prepared in the summer, as frost changes its colour, deprives it of weight, and impairs its gelatinous principle; but the forms into which it is twisted by the Russians are useless, and frequently injurious to its native qualities. These peculiar shapes were probably adopted with a view to conceal the real substance, and thus to preserve the monopoly. The Newfoundland and Iceland fishermen split open the fish as soon as they are taken, and throw the backbones, with the sounds annexed, into a heap; but before putrefaction commences the sounds are cut out, washed, and salted for use. In performing this opera- tion the best, namely, the intercostal parts, are left behind. The Iceland fishermen are so sensible of this circumstance that they beat the bone upon a block with a thick stick till the •pockets come out easily, so that they preserve the sound entire. This isinglass is dried upon nets in the open air, and resolves into fining, like that of Russian manufacture, in subacid liquors, such as stale beer, cyder, old hock, &c.; ■while in equal quantities it produces similar effects upon turbid liquors, except that it falls sooner and closer to the bottom of the vessel, though foreign isinglass, on account of the greater tenacity of its native mucilage, retains the power of fining preferably in warm weather. The finest and most transparent sorts of isinglass are consumed in making mock pearls, and in stiffening linens, silks, gauzes, &c. It may likewise be reduced to a jelly, as it dis- Bolves in alkaline liquors; and even cold lime water converts it into a pulpy mass. Although such preparation would be extremely detri- mental to health in fining liquors, yet it may be usefully employed for another purpose; because, on mixing this jelly with compositions of plaster, lime, &c., for ornamenting walls exposed to vicissitudes of weather, it forms a firm and durable cement, and if worked up with common mortar it soon acquires the harshness of bricks. With this intention, how- ever, it is more conveniently prepared by dis- solving it in cold water, acidulated with oil of vitriol: thus the acid quits the jelly, and forms with the lime a selenitic mass; while the jelly, being deprived of part of its moisttire, speedily dries, and hardens into a fii'm body, whence its superior strength and durability may be easily explained. In a medicinal view isinglass is but seldom employed, though it may with advantage be used in violent bleedings from the nose, by introducing into the nostril a pessaiy made of soft linen, and dipped in a solution of this glue, prepared in equal parts of spirit of wine and water. Isinglass also forms the principal in- gredient in sticking-plaster, and when boiled in fresh milk to the consistence of a strong jelly it affords a very nourishing food to invalids, though it should be eaten with precaution by those who possess a weak stomach or digest slowly, as it has a great tendency to turn rancid. ISINGLASS: To Claeify (1). Take about 3 ozs. of the best and clearest sort of isinglass for a quart mould of jelly, and put it into a stewpan, with just sufficient cold water to completely cover it; set it on the stove vdth a spoon in it to stir it at times, and skim it when any scum rises ; let it boil very gently and well reduce, only be careful not to reduce it too much, as it will bum, and, of course, get a bad taste, and spoil your jelly. When you think it is sufficiently reduced, and looks clear, pass it through a sieve into a basin ready for "use. ISINGLASS: To Claeify (2). Take 1;^ oz. of the best isinglass, cut it into small pieces, and wash them several times in warm water. Put the isinglass into a preserving pan with five glasses of filtered water, set it on the fire, and as soon as it bofls place it on the side of the stove, so as to keep up the boiling. Take off the scum directly it rises, and when reduced to three quarters strain it through a cloth into a basin for use. ISINGLASS FLUMMERY. Put 6 ozs. of isinglass into a quart of new milk, sweeten it, set it over the fire, and keep it stirring one way all the time till it has jellied; pour it into basins, and when cold turn it out. You may put in orange-flower water if you like.