[ 35 ] HE E HEM a saucepan, set it over a stove, and keep it constantly stirring till sufficiently firm to be moulded into the shape of a hedgehog; stick it full of blanched almonds cut lengthwise into slips, and place it in a dish. Beat up the yolks of four eggs, put them to a pint of cream sweetened to the taste, and stir over a slow fire till hot; then pour it round the hedgehog, and let it stand, when serve it. HEEL BALLS. See Balls, Blacking. HEEL, COW. See Cow-heel. HELLEBORE. The root of black helle- .jore, or Christmas rose {Hellehorns ni(jer), in large doses is a drastic purgative ; in smaller doses it is diuretic and emmenagogue. It has been used as a purgative in cases of mania, melancholy, coma, dropsy, worms, and psora, and as an emmenagogue; but its use requires great caution, for its effects are very uncertain, and affected by many circumstances. It may be exhibited in the form of extract, although its activity is much dissipated by the preparation. An infusion and tincture cer- tainly promise to be medicines of more uniform powers. The leaves of the stinking hellebore, or bear's foot [Helleborus fcetidus), have an acrid, bitter, nauseous taste, and unpleasant smell, especially when they are fresh. When dried they are sometimes given as a domestic medicine to destroy worms; but they must be used sparingly, being so violent in their operation that instances of their fatal effects are recorded. Of white hellebore (Veratriim album), the powder of the dried root, applied to an ulcerated surface, occasions violent purging; snuffed up tlie nose it proves a strong and not always safe sternutatory. Taken internally it acts with extreme violence as an emetic, and has been observed, even in a small dose, to occasion con- vulsions, and even death. The ancients some- times employed it in obstinate cases, but always made it their last resource. E EMLOCK [Coniiim maculalum). The whole plant is a virulent poison, but varying very much in strength according to circumstances. When taken in an over-dose it produces vertigo, dimness of sight, difficulty of speech, nausea, fetid eructations, anxiety, tremors, and paralysis of the limbs. But Dr. Stoerck found that in small doses it may be taken with r;reat safety, and that, without at all disordering the con- stitution, or even producing any sensible opera- tion, it sometimes proves a powerful remedy in many obstinate disorders. In scirrhus the internal and external use of hemlock has been found useful, but mercury has been generally used at tlie same time. In open cancer it often abates the pain, and is free from the consti- pating effects of opium. It is likewise used in scrofulous tumours and ulcers, and in other ill- conditioned ulcers. It is also recommended by some in chincough and various other diseases. Its most common and best form is that of the powdered leaves, in the dose at first of two or three grains in the course of a day, wliich in some cases has been gradually increased to upwards of 2 ozs. daily, but the powder must have been badly prepared. An extract from the seeds is said to produce giddiness sooner than that from the leaves. HEMMING. If the piece of calico or cloth that you are about to hem be a square piece fold it like a half-handkerchief, to see whether the sides are exactly equal in length; and if not, draw a thread out of the calico or cloth, and cut it even by the open line thus made ; then cut the raw edge straight and smooth. A selvage is the edge of the cloth where it is closed in the making. Then, if the piece you are about to hem has a selvage on one or two of its sides, those sides do not require hemming. Turn the raw edge down once, and then turn it down again the same width as at fii'st; place the work upon the first finger of the left hand, and hold the needle in the right hand. Begin by pointing the needle from you, turning in the end of the thread under the hem, and drawing it out till near the end of the thread; then the end must be neatly turned in under the hem with the point of the needle. As you go on hemming point the needle towards your cliest or bosom, not towards the left shoulder. When a new thread becomes necessary cut off the end of the thread you have been using, and turn it under the hem ; then set in the needle pointed from you, and manage the end of the new thread iu the same manner as before. Keep the eye of the needle rather lower than the point, otherwise the needle is very likely to get broken. Four threads left between every two stitches in hemming will place them at a good distance. HEMORRHOIDS, or Piles. This is a disease which requires but little if any explana tion. The piles consist of small tumours situated on the verge of the anus, &c. In some cases blood discharges from these tumours, par- ticularly when the patient strains at stool. The disease is then distinguished by the term bleed ing ^n'/es, and where there is no discharge it is called the blind piles. The piles may be occasioned by habitual cos- tiveness, hard riding, excesses of various kinds, suppression of accustomed discharges, full habit of body, by the use of strong purges containing aloes, and are more liable to arise in those of a robust constitution, and in people of sedentary life. Child-bearing women are frequently sub- ject to piles from various causes, and from the