MUS MUS [ 227 ] talsing either of these out, it assumes a dark- coloured appearance, the circumstance denotes the presence of poison existing among the mush- rooms ; if, on the other hand, the metal or onion, on being withdrawn from the liquor, wears its natural appearance, the mushrooms may be re- garded as genuine and of the right sort. Considered as an article of food mushrooms are by no means wholesome or nourishing. Being tough, and greatly resembling soft leather, they are almost indigestible, and ought not to be eaten by persons of weak or inactive stomachs. MUSHROOMS : To Dry. Wipe them quite clean, take out the brown, pare off the skin of the large ones, lay them on paper, and j^ut them in a cool oven to dry. Keep them in paper bags in a very dry place. When wanted for use simmer them in gravy, and they will swell to nearly their former size ; or you may simmer them in their own liquor till it dries up in them, shaking the pan ; then dry them on tin plates, with spice or not, as you think proper. Tie down with a bladder, or keep them iu a dry place or in paper. MUSHROOMS, BROILED. Choose the largest sort, pepper and salt them well, lay them on a small gridiron with the stalk upwards, broil them rather quickly, and serve them with good gravy. MUSHROOMS EN CANNELON. Chop some mushrooms into dice, put them into a stewpan, with shred parsley, scallions, shallots, and some butter. When a little browned add stock, pepper, and salt; simmer till the mush- rooms are done and the sauce pretty thick; then put in the yolks of three eggs and a little lemon juice, and set it by to cool. In the mean- time roll some paste very thin, cut it in pieces, in each of which put some of the above; moisten the edges, and roll them up in the form of short sausages. Flour and fry them. MUSHROOMS WITH CREAM. Choose those which are small, and boil them a few minutes in some good cream sauce; toast the crust of a rasped French roll, fill it with the mushrooms, turn it over on the dish, and pour the remainder over it. MUSHROOMS WITH CRUST. Take some mushrooms, and wash, but do not peel them ; then put them, with a few spoonsful of good oil, into a frying-pan, and heat them for seven or eight minutes over a good fire. Whilst they are cooking add pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, shred parsley, and shallots ; then pour the whole over a fried crust, and serve immediately. MUSHROOMS, FRICASSEED. Peel some mushrooms—if they are large cut them in pieces —wash them in cold water with some vinegar, and blanch them; afterwards dip them again into cold water, and wipe them dry ; then heat them over the fire with a bit of butter rolled in flour, ^ some salt, pepper, and a bunch of parsley. Moisten with hot water or stock, and just before serving thicken with the yolk of an egg and half a tea-spoonful of vinegar. MUSHROOMS, PICKLED (1). Button mushrooms should be rubbed with a bit of flannel and salt, and from the larger ones take out the red insides: when they are black they will not do, being too old. Sprinkle a little salt over them, and put them into a stewpan, with some mace and pepper. As the liquor comes out shake them well, and keep them over a gentle fire till all of it be dried into them again ; then put as much vinegar into the pan as will be sufficient to cover them, give them one warm, and turn the whole into a glass or stone jar. They will keep for two years. MUSHROOMS, PICKLED (2). Cut oft the stalks of some small button mushrooms, rub the skins off with flannel dipped in salt, and then throw them into milk and water. Drain them out, and then put them into a stewpan, strewing over them a handful of salt; cover them closely, and put them into a gentle stove for five minutes to draw out all the water ; then put them on a coarse cloth to drain till they are cold. MUSK is secreted in a small bag or sack by an animal called Moschus moschiferus. Form, grains concreted together, dry, yet slightly unctuous ; colour, deep brown, with a shade of red ; odour, aromatic, peculiar, diffusive, and durable ; and it has the curious property, when added in a minute quantity, to augment the odour of other perfumes without imparting its own : this renders it a valuable article in per- fumery, on which account it is a usual ingre- dient in lavender water. Taste, bittei'isli and heavy. Boiling water dissolves it perfectly; rectified spirit takes up most of its active parts, although the odour is only discovered upon dilution ; but sulphuric ether is its most complete menstruum. It is stimulant and antispasmodic. As early as the time of Meade it was employed in typhus fever. Pringle administered it in gout of the stomach, a practice which received the concurrence of Cullen. Conjoined with ammonia it has been celebrated for its powers in arresting the progress of gangrene, and of imparting fresh excitement to the nervous system. It has been also administered with success in epilepsy, hooping cough, and other spasmodic affections. The best form is that of bolus, combined with ammonia or camphor, or some other similar remedy. It may be also administered in a mixture, for which purpose it requires five times its weight of mucilage. By previously triturating it with sugar its minutfi