QUA [ 373 ] QUE but an indifferent salmis, but are excellent mixed with partridges. They are cut in halves, and yield no trimmings except the head and neck. But, after all, a salmis of quails, or of partridges and quails mixed, could only serve for a family dinner. It would be considered absurdity at a dinner party. QUAILS, SPANISH. Mix the juice of a lemon with some butter, salt, and pepper ; pick and prepare eight quails, and stuff them well with the above mixture ; then fasten the legs to the body, leaving the claws free ; truss them a good shape, and put them into a saucepan on slices of bacon; cover them also with slices; add a little gravy, moistened with equal por- tions of white wine and stock ; set them on the fire for half an hour; then take them out, drain, and untie the birds ; place each of them on a piece of fried bread the size of the quail, and serve with clear Spanish sauce, with the addition of a little glaze. QUAILS, STEWED. Put a little butter worked up with flour and a few green onions into a stewpan. When brown put in some quails, a glass of white wine, the same of stock, parsley, some more small onions, a bay leaf, and two or three cloves : stew these till the quails are sufficiently done. Garnish your dish with cocks' combs, artichoke bottoms, fried QUAILS WITH TRUFFLES. Peel and cut some truffles into rather large dice, and put them into a saucepan, with equal quantities of grated bread and butter, a little chopped parsley, salt, pepper, four kinds of spice, and a truffle minced small: set them on the fire seven or eight minutes. When cold stuff some quails with this mixture, truss and tie up the birds in proper form, and put them into a saucepan, with slices of bacon under and over. Put into another saucepan some veal cut in dice, a carrot, seven or eight onions, a clove, the trim- mings of the truffles used above, half a bay leaf, and a good bit of butter; set these on the fire for a quarter of an hour; then add a glass of white wine and the same of stock, and give the whole two or three boilings ; pour this seasoning over the quails, and set them on the fire. Half an hour will be sufficient to cook them. When done take them out, drain and arrange the birds round the dish, with the sauce in the centre, on a reduced EJspagnole. QUARTER. See Measures : Corn Measure. QUARTER DAY. See House. • QUARTERN. This was the name by which the 4 lb. loaf was known a few years since. It also means a quarter of a pint of any liquor. QUASSIA, From Quassia amara the drug quassia was originally obtained. It is a small branching tree or shrub, from fifteen to twenty feet high, a native of the woods of Surinam, Guiana, Cayenne, and the island of Triuadad. Every part of the plant possesses the bitter principle, even to the leaves and flowers, but it is the wood only which is used; and it is veiy rarely that now any part of this ever comes to this country, it being so very scarce and of small bulk; its place is supplied by other individuals of the family, although none of them yield the same intense bitter which this does. That which is most abundant, and which is, in fact, in general use, is the wood of Simaruha excelsa, called in the Caribbee Islands hitter ash. It is a native of the woods of Jamaica and other of the West India islands, where it forms a lofty tree, from sixty even to a hundred feet high. The medicinal virtues of Quassia amara were discovered about the middle of the last century by a negro of Surinam, named Quassi, Coissi, or Quass, who acquired considerable reputation from employing the wood with great success as a secret cure in the malignant endemic fevers which arp so prevalent in that country. He was induced to disclose his secret by Daniel Rolander, a Swede, who iu 1756 brought specimens of the wood to Stockholm, and from that time the effects of this drug have been well known throughout Europe, and the name of the negro has been perpetuated in that of the plant. But the quassia of Surinam is not now or very rarely in use, its place being, as we have already stated, supplied by Simaruha ex- celsa. Quassia is purely tonic, invigorating the digestive organs with little excitement of the circulation or increase of animal heat. It has no sensible odour, and its taste is purely bitter, which is surpassed by that of few other substances in intensity and permanence. Its virtues depend on a peculiar bitter crystallisable principle dis- covered by Winckler, and called quassine, which is white, opaque, unalterable in the air, in- odorous, and of an intense bitterness, which in the solution is almost insupportable. The bitterness is pure, and resembles that ot the wood. Quassine, when heated, melts like resin ; and it is perfectly neuter, though both alkalies and acids increase its solubility in water. Its ultimate constituents are carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. Quassia is used by brewers as a sub- stitute for hops; but Dr. Thomson says that beer made with it does not keep, but soon becomes muddy and flat, has a mawkish taste, and soon runs into the acetous fermentation; and that the wood has narcotic properties is evidenced by the facility with which a decoction of it poisons flies. QUEEN'S METAL. A species of pewter used to make teapots, &o., made by fusing under charcoal a mixture of tin, 9 parts; antimony.