C 85 ] IVY IVO Ignorant people look upon these girdles as a kind of charm, without considering that the mercury enters the body. Those who would avoid this detestable dis- ease ought to beware of infected persons, to use wholesome food, and to study universal cleanliness. Sometimes the necessity for using sulphur is avoided by applying this liniment:—Take sul- phuric acid, 5 drops; rose water, 15 drops; pre- pared hog's lard, 1 oz.; essence of lemon, 15 drops. To be used night and morning. This is a neat preparation, and will answer the inten- tion well. For adults a wash composed of ^ oz. of sulphuric acid to a pint of water will answer the same purpose. IVORY is the tusk of the elephant. By steeping small pieces of ivory in vinegar, or any other acid, they become ductile, and may be preserved in that state for a considerable time by keeping them in common water. This hard substance may also be softened and whitened by immersing it in a hot decoction made of red sage leaves, in double-distilled white-wine vine- gar, with the addition of a little quicklime. For removing spots the ivory should be laid in unslaked lime, and a small quantity of water poured on it, lest the heat be too intense, and the ivory scale or become brittle. Others dis- charge the stains by merely steeping it for some time in strong lime water. Ivory may be dyed green either in a solution of copper or verdigris in aquafortis, or by grind- ing together two parts of verdigris and one of sal ammoniac, and dissolving them in strong white-wine vinegar. Farther, by employing 4 ozs. of aqua regia and 1 oz. of sal ammoniac, a fine purple colour will be the result. Ivory, bone, horn, and other solid parts ot animals may be stained yellow by previously boiling them in a solution of 1 lb. of alum in two quarts of water; then immersing them for half an hour in a liquor pi'epared by boiling ^ lb. of turmeric in one gallon of water till it be reduced to three quarts, and afterwards plunging the coloured substance into alum water. All bony matters may also be stained blue : they are first to be tinged with green, then dipped in a strong and hot solution of pearlash. Ivory may be prepared as a ground for miniature painting by cleansing the leaves or plates, and rubbing them over with the juice of garlic. This method is preferably recom- mended for removing its greasy quality, which prevents the colours from fixing on the ground, and is said to be more useful than either soap or ox-gall. With respect to the medicinal properties of ivory, its shavings, like those of hartshorn, may, by boiling, be converted into a jelly, and possess similar restorative virtues. To talis stains out of ivory. Make a light paste of sal volatile, oil, and prepared chalk, and rub it on the ivory with leather. Afterwards put a little more on, leave it to dry, and then brush it off. See Bones, Dyeing. IVORY BLACK, also called Animal Char- coal and Bone Black. Small pieces of ivory or bone are smeared with a little linseed oil, and put into a blacklead crucible; this is covered with a similar vessel inverted, but of a smaller size, and the crevices are secured with a lute made of potter's clay and rye flour, so as to prevent the access of external air. Thus pre- pared, the whole is exposed to a red heat, not too intense, for about half an hour, after which it is taken out and suffered to cool gradually. AVhen cold the charred ivory—or bones where the former is scarce—ought to be reduced to powder, and triturated, with the addition of water, on a painter's stone till it assumes the form of a smooth paste. In this state it is moulded into small cones, and allowed to dry. Similar black may also be obtained by burning the stones of peaches, after having previously dried them and removed ,the kernels. Ivory or bone black possesses the singular property of completely destroying the colour of a great number of animal and vegetable solu- tions to a much greater extent than common charcoal: thus 1 oz. of animal charcoal will in a few minutes entirely remove the colouring matter of a pint of red wine. This effect is more readily produced on hot than on cold fluids. It is largely employed on account of its decolorising power in sugar refining, and the finer the powder to which it is reduced the greater is its efficacy. It is difficult to give a satisfactory explana- tion of the decolorising power of animal char- coal ; but it appears that it is entirely dependent upon the carbonaceous matter, the action of which is, however, modified by the presence of the earthy salts, as the carbonate and phosphate of lime. It further appears that the charcoal combines with the colouring matter, but only when it is in a state of fine powder. Like powdered wood charcoal, it has also the power of destroying the fumes arising from putre- faction. IVY (Hedera helix) is well known as an ever- green creeper, forming an ornamental covering to old buildings, and a verdant clothing to what would otherwise be bare and unsightly. The fresh leaves have a balsamic odour, especially when rubbed, and a bitterish, harsh, and un- pleasant taste. They are used for dressing issues, and, in the form of decoction, have been recommended in sanious ulcers and cutaneous