JUN [ 97 ] KA V Tne provisions for domestic use in season during this month are:— Fish. Trout, carp, tench, pike, ee]s, salmon, soles, turbot, mullet, mackerel, herrings, smelts, lobsters, crayfish, and prawns. Feutt. Cherries, straisberries, gooseberries, currants, apricots, pears, peaches, nectarines, grapes, melons, and pine-apples. Meat. Beef, mutton, veal, lamb, and buck venison. Poultry and Game. Fowls, pullets, chickens, green geese, ducklings, turkey poults, plovers, wheatears, leverets, and rabbits. Vegetables. Carrots, turnips, potatoes, parsnips, radishes, onions, beans, peas, aspa- ragus, kidney beans, artichokes, cucumbers, lettuce, spinach, parsley, purslane, rape, cresses, all sorts of salad, thyme, and pot herbs in general. JUNIPER (Juniperus communis). Juniper berries possess a strong, not unpleasant smell, and a warm, pungent, sweet taste, which, on chewing or previously well bruising them, is succeeded by a bitterish flavour. They require two years before they ripen, and yield, on expression, a rich, sweet, aromatic juice, bearing some resemblance to the taste of honey. These berries are useful carminatives, for which purpose j a spirituous water and an essential oil are pre- pared from them. The Swedes eat them for breakfast in the form of a conserve. In 1 Germany they are frequently used as a culinary j spice, and especially for imparting their flavour 1 to sauer-kraut. The spirit impregnated with the i essential oil of this fruit is known by the name ! of Gin, to which refer. i A roh is prepared of the liquor remaining after the distillation of the oil; it is passed through a strainer, and gently exhaled to a due consistence. Recommended as a medicine of great efficacy in cases of impaired digestion and I debility of the intestines. It is also very service- ' able to aged persons labouring under diseases of the urinary passages. The rob is of a balsamic sweet taste, somewhat bitter, accordingly as the seeds have been more or less bruised. One of the best forms, however, is a simple watery • infusion of the berries or the tops, with the addition of a small quantity of gin: thus a very useful medicine is obtained for dropsical patients. The Laplanders are accustomed to drink such infusions as substitutes for tea and coffee. The oil of juniper, when mixed with that of nuts, makes an excellent varnish for pictures, woodwork, and for preserving iron from rust. The wood of the juniper tree is of a reddish colour, veiy hard, and durable. It is employed in marquetry and veneering, making cups, cabinets, Arc , wliile the bark may be manu- VOL. II. factured into ropes. The charcoal made from this wood affords the most durable heat, so that live embers are said to have been found in the ashes after having been covered for twelve months. The resin of this plant (sandarach), when powdered and rubbed into paper, is fre- quently used under the name of pounce. JUNIPER RATAFIA. Take of juniper berries 3 ozs.; anise, coriander, cinnamon, and cloves, of each 18 grains. Bruise all these ingredients, and infuse them for a month in three pints of brandythen strain it, add f lb. of sugar dissolved in half a pint of water, stir them together, pass the whole through a jelly bag, and bottle it. Keep it well corked. JUNKET, DEVONSHIRE. In a dish that will hold a pint and a half of new milk put sufficient grated loaf sugar to sweeten it, a tea- spoonful of the best pounded cinnamon, and blend well with sugar; to this add two or three table- spoonsful of brandy, and mix thoroughly; then pour upon it the milk as nearly as possible the warmth for running cheese. Next add the ren- net, which requires much judgment, because if too much be put it imparts a very unpleasant flavour. When the rennet is perfectly good and strong a dessert-spoonful is enough. It will take perhaps half an hour before it is of a proper consistence, which should be tolerably solid without being stiff. The surface of the junket is then thickly laid over with Devonshire cream, taken off the pan in which it was scalded the day before, loaf sugar grated upon the cream, and a small portion of nutmeg if appi'oved. K KABOBS. See Cabobs. KAJEPUT. See Cajeput Oil. KALE, SEA. This plant, though now cultivated in gardens, grows wild on the sea- coast, and is improved by the poor people, who hoe up the sand round the plants, and after- wards cut them for sale. They are tied up in bundles like asparagus, and are commonly dressed in a similar manner, being served on toast at the bottom of the dish, with melted butter or gravy. KAVIA. Take the hard roes of several sturgeons, and lay them in a tub of water ; take away all the fibres as you would from a calf's brain, and then with a whisk beat the roes in the water, shaking off from the whisk whatever fibres may be adhering to it; then lay the roes on sieves for a short time, after which put them into fresh water again, and continue to whip them and change the water until the roes are perfectly cleansed and free from fibre; lay them on sieves to drain, season them well with salt Vl