PAR PAR [ 299 ] partridges, adding to it the oones from which the flesh has been taken, an onion stuck with three or four cloves, some celery and turnips cut small, the soft part of a roll grated, and water enough to cover the rest of the ingredients. Stew all these till the juice is extracted, as well from the meat as the vegetables; then strain it through a sieve, and skim off the fat. Put this soup into a stewpan, with the white meat of the birds, and stew it for half an hour; thicken it ten minutes before serving with some flour and cream ; season with salt and white pepper, and it is ready for the table. PARTRIDGES : To Boil. Fifteen minutes will be sufficient, but they must be put into plenty of water, and boiled quickly. To a quarter of a pint of cream add a little fresh butter, stir the whole one way till melted, pour it over the birds, and serve them up. PARTRIDGES : Tq Choose. When they are young the bill is of a dark colour, and their legs yellowish. When fresh the vent is firm; but this part will look greenish when stale. The plumage on the breast of the hen is light; that on the cock is tinged with red. PARTRIDGES: To Hash. Roast two or three partridges ; take off the flesh, but without the skin or sinews ; hash it very fine, break the bones, put the whole into a stewpan, with four large spoonsful of Spanish sauce and two of veal stock. When hot pass it through a sieve, reduce it to half the substance, take it off, and set aside part for the hash when it is to be served; put into the remainder the minced meat, with pepper, nutmeg, and a little butter, and mix the hash well. Dish, glaze, and garnish with fried bread and poached eggs. PARTRIDGES : To Roast. These are to be trussed in the same manner as pheasants, but the custom of tucking the legs under each other gives trouble to the carver. They will take about fifteen minutes to roast before a good fire Before you take them up baste them with butter, shake a little fliour and salt over them, put the gravy into the dish, and serve up the birds with the same sauce as for pheasants. If partridges are to be served longer than they will keep undressed, you may half roast them, or make a pie of them. PARTRIDGES : To Stew. Truss them as for the spit, stuff the craws, and lard down both sides of the breast; roll a lump of butter in pepper, salt, and beaten mace, and put it into the bellies; sew up the vents, and put them into a pan, with a quart of gravy, a spoonful of Madeira wine, as much catsup, a tea-spoonful of lemou pickle, half as much mushroom powder, one anchovy, half a lemon, and a sprig of sweet marjoram; cover all closely, and stew them half an hour; then take out the birds, and thicken the gravy; give it a boil, and pour it over the partridges, laying round them artichoke bottoms boiled and cut in quarters, and the yolks of four hard eggs. Woodcocks may be done in the same manner. PARTRIDGES: To Truss. Partridges are trussed in exactly the same way as pheasants. PARTRIDGES WITH ANCHOVY. Put two anchovies into the body of each partridge, and lay the birds in a stewpan, with bacon, peeled tomatoes, or juice of bitter orange, salt, pepper, and a sprig of parsley. When they are done take out the anchovies, and pour over the dish the gravy in which the partridges have been cooked. PARTRIDGES, BOUDINS OF. Having made the boudins of quenelles of partridges, put them with a little salt into a well-buttered stewpan ; cover them with boiling water, poach, and then drain them. When cold dip them into an omelet, then into crumbs of bread, and fry them. Di'ain the boudins thoroughly, and serve •yvith an Italienne. The boudins may also be broiled, in which case they should be dipped in yolks of eggs, rolled in bread crumbs, im- mersed in warmed butter, breaded again, and then broiled slowly. PARTRIDGES IN BREAD. Take a nice, shaped loaf of about I lb. weight; make a hole at one end, through whicli take out all the crumb; rub the crust over with a little butter or lard, and set it in the oven for a few minutes to dry; fill it with minced partridge [see Partridges, Minced), and put tlie loaf, bottom upward?*, into a stewpan ; add two tea-spoonsful of veal blond, with any other garnish you please; let it remain on the fire till the bread is soft enough to allow a straw to penetrate it; then take it out, and dish it with the same round. PARTRIDGES, BROILED. Take five partridges, cut them in halves, trim and dip them in melted butter, and bread them twice ; a quarter of an hour before dinner broil them witli sauce aii diable. PARTRIDGES, CHARTREUSE OF. Take a middling-sized cabbage, cut it in half, and blanch it; in a few minutes take it out, drain and press out all the water. When cold tie it up with two partridges, properly trussed and larded; cover the bottom of a stewpan with thin slices of bacon, on which place the cabbage, two servelas, six sausages, two carrots, and two onions, season with pepper and salt, lay more slices over, and set it on a gentle fire. While it is cooking cut some turnips, carrots, and onions into thin slices, as nearly of a size as you can. PARTRIDGES, CUTLETS OF. Take tho fillets of six partridges, and having removed