[ 454 ] sou SOU of cold water, and when it has boiled a few ttiinutes strain the rice, put it with jour infusion into another saucepan, and set it again on the fii'e. As soon as it boils place the saucepan on hot ashes, that the rice may burst gradually. In three quarters of an hour add ] lb. of powder sugar, ^ lb. of fresh butter, and a pinch of salt, and stir them well in ; put fresh hot ashes under the saucepan, that the rice may keep constantly simmering for an hour, by which time it ought to be perfectly soft, and should be rubbed through a bolter quickly, like a puree: put this into another saucepan over hot ashes to keep it warm. Take sixteen eggs, and separate the yolks and whites ; beat the former well, whisk the latter till nearly firm, and then mix the yolks with the rice, taking it off the ashes. The preparation ought to be of the same consistence as a crcme patissiere. Add at first a quarter, and after- wards the whole of the whites, and stir them in as lightly as for biscuit paste. The whole being thoroughly amalgamated, pour it into the crou- stade, and place it in a moderate oven for two hours and a half. When done cover a baking tin with red cinders, on which place the souffle the moment it is taken out of the oven. This prevents its falling whilst you mask it with powder sugar, and glaze with the salamander. Carry it into the dining-room on the tin, have a dish ready with a napkin folded on it, place the souffle on the dish, and let it be served im- mediately. Remember that a souffle cannot be served too quickly. SOUP, BROWN (without Meat). Put three quarts or more of water into a stewpan, with a sufficient quantity of raspings to thicken it, two or three onions cut across, some whole pepper, and a little salt; cover it closely, and boil it an hour and a half; take it off, and strain it through a sieve; fiy in some butter endive, lettuce, spinach, and any other hei'bs cut small; then take a stewpan sufficiently large to hold all the ingredients, and put in a good piece of butter; stir in a little flour, and keep stirring till its colour is of a nice brown ; then put in the herbs and soup, boil till the herbs are tender, and the soup of a proper consistence; then pour the soup in a tureen, and send to table. Serve with fried bread either in the soup or in a dish. SOUP GLAZE. Glaze is made like portable soup. A small portion will flavour a pint of ' water, and with an onion, parsley, sweet herbs, allspice, and seasoning of salt and Cayenne pepper, will make a fine soup in a very short time. Sauces and gravies for game or poultry are likewise quickly made with glaze. SOUP A LA GRIMOD. Truss a fowl, and put it into a saucepan, with a couple of pigeons and 3 lbs. of steak, all tied up to keep them in proper form; fill the saucepan with good stock, set it on the tire, and skim it well; then put in carrots, turnips, onions, leeks, celery, and two cloves; stew the whole, and when done serve as follows :—The capon and pigeons in a deep dish, garnished with whole lettuces previously cooked, small onions, carrots, and turnips, cut into dice: these are also to be dressed previously. Take the carrots, &c., which were done with the capon, and cover the capon with them; strain the liquor through a tammy, and serve in a tureen by itself, as the sauce to the capon. SOUP, HESSIAN. Take 2 lbs. of shin of beef, one pint of split peas, two onions, four carrots, six potatoes, two heads of celery, some whole pepper, salt, and five quarts of water; stew the whole together till half the quantity is boiled away, and then strain it through a hair sieve. ' SOUP, MAIGRE. Melt ^Ib. of butter in a stewpan, shake it round, and while doing so let six sliced onions be thrown in ; then shake the pan well for two or three minutes, and add five heads of celery, two handsful of spinach, two cabbage lettuces cut small, and some parsley; shake the pan well for ten minutes more, then put into it two quarts of water, some crusts of bread, a tea-spoonful of beaten pepper, and three or four blades of mace, to which may be added some white beet leaves cut small. Boil the soup gently for an hour, and previously to serving up beat into it two yolks of eggs and a spoonful of vinegar. SOUP, PORTABLE. Put on the fire, in four gallons of water, 10 lbs. of a shin of beef free from fat and skin, 6 lbs. of a knuckle of veal, and two fowls; break the bones, and cut the meat into small pieces; season with 1 oz. of whole black pepper, ^ oz. of Jamaica pepper, and the same of mace; cover the pot very closely, let it simmer for twelve or fourteen hours, and then strain it. The following day take off the fat, and clear the jelly from any sediment adhering to it; boil it gently upon a stove without covering the saucepan, and stir it frequently till it thickens to a strong glue ; pour it into broad tin pans, and put it in a cool oven. When it will take the impi-ession of a knife score it in equal squares, and hang it in a south window or near a stove. When dry break it at the scores, wrap it in paper, and pack it closely up in boxes. There should always be a large supply of this soup, as with it and catsup no one Avill ever be at a loss for dressed dishes and soups. SOUP A LA REINE. Cover the bottom of a stewpan that will hold four quarts with slices of lean ham ; then cut up one fowl, a few slices of veal, and add thereto a bundle of thyme and