HYP [ 67 ] HYP disease of tliis nature, and those subject to disorders of the stomach and digestive organs. It behoves every man, therefore, to guard carefully against whatever will tend in the remotest degree to produce derangement of the digestive organs, for whenever a man finds, says Dr. Johnson, any alteration in his temper or moral feelings, there being no adequate moral cause, he should suspect some 2')husical cause. Let him, then, narrowly watch the state of these deviations from natural temper or feelings after free living and after abstinence, after complicated dishes and after plain food, after wine and after water. He will readily recognise the correspondence between cause and effect; and if so, how can we have a better test for the nature of the complaint, or a firmer basis for the treatment? Even if the orighial causes be purely of a moral nature, as, for instance, severe losses in business, still the mental despondency is aggravated by the morbid sensibility of the stomach; and this morbid sensibility is mitigated or exasperated by the quality and quantity of our food and drink. The physician cannot cure the moral cause that preys upon the mind, and through that medium injures the body; but he can in a great measure prevent the reaction of the body on the mind, by which reaction the moral affliction is rendered infinitely more diffi- cult to bear. Thus a man loses by speculation a certain sura of money, which makes a con- siderable impression on his mind, and depresses his spirits. After awhile he finds that time, instead of healing the wound which misfortune had inflicted, has increased it; and that what he could look upon with some degree of fortitude in the beginning has now become such a source of despondency that it haunts him by day and by night, and is for ever uppermost in his thoughts, and even his dreams. He finds, moreover, that some days he can view the misfortune with courage, and spurn the idea of giving way under it, while on other days it presents itself in the most frightful colours, and he seems completely deprived of all forti- tude to resist its overwhelming influence. What does it teach us ? Why, that the moral afflic- tion was borne with comparative ease till the digestive organs were impaired through the agency of the mind, when reaction took place, and impaired in turn the mental energies. But how are we to account for the fact that one day the individual will evince fortitude, and the next despair, all the attendant circum- stances of the moral evil remaining precisely as they were ? It can be clearly accounted for by the occasional irritation of food or drink exasperating the morbid sensibility of the stomach, and thereby re-acting on the mind. This temporary irritation over, the mind again recovers a degree of its former serenity till the cause is re-applied. We were led to this solu- tion of the enigma some years ago, by observing that a very aged hypochondriac was every second day affected with such an exasperation of his melancholy forebodings, that he did nothing but walk about his room wringing his hands, and assuring his servants that the hand of death was upon liim, and that he could not possibly survive more than a few hours. Under these gloomy impressions he would refuse food and drink, and, in fact, give himself up for lost. The succeeding sun, however, would find him quite an altered man. The cloud had broken away, hope was rekindled, and the appetite for food and drink was indulged ad libitum. Next morning all would again be despair, and nothing but death could be thought of. So he went on as regularly as light and darkness ; but if, ou the good day, he could be kept on a very small portion of food, and the bottle unopened, the next would be good also. This, however, could seldom be done, for as soon as he felt a respite from his miseries, procured by one day's ab- stinence, he returned to his usual indulgences, and again irritated his stomach and bowels, and through thera reproduced the blue devils in his mind. Another curious phenomena was ob- served in this case, and, indeed, we have seen the same in many others, namely, that any purgative medicine which operated at all briskly brought on an exasperation of the mental de- pression. He was always better when the bowels were constipated, clearly showing that whatever irritated the nerves of the alimentary canal, whether as food or as physic, increased the mental malady. Indeed, the abuse of irritating purgatives is one of the common physical causes of this morbid sensibility, and should be care- fully avoided in the treatment of the disease. We have known many instances where in- dividuals having this morbid sensibility of the gastro-intestinal nerves experienced, after eating certain articles of difficult digestion, such a, state of irritability of temper, that they were conscious of the danger they ran by the slightest collision or contradiction from even the nearest relations, and therefore avoided society till the fit went off. One gentleman in this state always caused his servants to tie his hands together, lest in the paroxysm of irrita- tion, without any ostensible cause, he should cut his throat, or otherwise commit suicide. There was great difficulty in keeping this gentleman from wine in excess. Tartar emetic was, therefore, put into it unknown to him, and produced vomiting every time he took it. He persevered for a day or two, and then took such a disgust tp his usual beverage that he