[ 257 ] NO Y NUR •wine (a quart of spirits of wine and a quart of water). Cork the bottle particularly well, make a point of shaking it thoroughly once every day, and at the end of a week it will be ready for the next stage of the process. Now make a syrup of 2 lbs. of lump sugar to a quart of water; let it stand till cold, and then pour it into the bottle; mix the whole well by shaking the bottle, and let it stand another week. Now strain the liqueur from the almond powder, and filter it through white blotting paper. A common funnel will do for the purpose, putting a few slips of wood down between the paper and the funnel. The slips of wood prevent the paper from adhering too closely to the side of the funnel, and in that way accelerate the process. The noyau is now ready for bottling, and may be drunk at once, but should not be used for two months, and is not in perfection till after one vear. NOYAU, FRENCH. To nine quarts of white brandy or whiskey, and one quart of orange- flower water, add 6 ozs. of loaf sugar for each quart of the spirit, and infuse therein as many kernels of apricots as will give it a good flavour. The sugar must be broken very small, and dipped into an equal quantity of common water immediately previous to its being put into the infusion. Afterwards the whole is to be filtered through a flannel or cotton bag. NUNS. Roll puff paste about a quarter of an inch thick, cut it into rounds or any other shape, lay upon one piece a small tea-spoonful of any sort of preserved fruit, wet the edges, and put over it another piece of paste; fry them in boiling clarified beef suet or fresh lard, drain them upon the back of a sieve, serve them in a napkin, and strew pounded loaf sugar over them. NUNS' CAKE. See Cake, Nuns'. NUNS' PUFFS. Boil for a few minutes one pint of milk with I lb. of butter, and then stir the milk and butter into \ lb. of flour; stir it until it does not stick to the sides of the pot, let it cool, add the yolks of nine eggs, beat the whites to a stiff froth, and stir them in last; butter small round tins, and half fill them. NURSE. See Invalid. NURSEMAID. Mrs. Parkes makes the following very judicious remarks upon this domestic :—The nurse should never be per- mitted to leave an infant even while sleeping, and therefore she ought to have an assistant, or the housemaid should be appointed to bring such things as she may require into the nursery, Buch as coals and water, her different meals, and the food prepared for the child. When there are two or three young children an under nurse- maid becomes absolutely necessaiy. She should possess a good and willing temper and cleanly VOL. II. habits, for fag and waiting upon the nursery must devolve upon her, and she should also be required to walk out with the children. She should be a sufficient sempstress to assist in making and repairing the children's clothes. On no account permit even the most unexcep- tionable servant to inflict on children personal correction. This can only be allowable in the nursery from the hand of a parent, who it can scarcely be supposed would give pain to her offspring from any angry impulse of the moment, but only from the conviction that such punish- ment is the best specific for the faults that are committed. But the mother who suffers her children to be punished by her hirelings, of whose judgment she can have had little reason to form a high opinion, yields to them a power more likely to be exercised in wrath than in the spirit of justice, or with the desire to prevent the repetition of the offence. The power of a nurse ought to extend no further than to enforce by gentle, but decided and firm measures, the wishes and orders of the parent. The habits that an infant's life calls imme- diately into action from its nurse are thoughtful- ness and cleanliness. A nursemaid without the former will not think sufficiently of the comfort of her charge ; she will hear it cry without endeavouring to know the cause, in order to administer relief. It may be suffering pain fi-om bandages and strings too tightly drawn, while its apparent uneasiness, if not unheeded, is attempted to be lulled away, rather than the cause removed. It may be subject, by a careless exposure to draughts of air, or from the effects of too glaring a light, to inflammation of the eyes, the foundation of future diseases which may hereafter impair the vision, if not destroy it altogether. The hearing also may be sacri- ficed to carelessness. Leaving the head damp after washing, and exposure to cold winds, with the ears not well covered, frequently cause the earache and temporary deafness, which may be the origin of that disposition to permanent deaf- ness which frequently shows itself, and saddens the latter periods of life. "What may be the . effects of such misfortunes upon the character and disposition of individuals thus afflicted it is not possible for me to say, but they are such as affectionate parents would earnestly wish to avert from their offspring. From the want of cleanliness of a nurse the health of a child may be greatly affected. If the skin be not well washed the pores will become clogged, and the insensible perspiration impeded, by which the whole system will become deranged ; and this is one cause of the squalid appearance which some children present. Besides this inconvenience, that want of cleanliness and order which is often betrayed at other seasons of life may be s