[ 200 ] M E A ME A Opiates are sometimes necessary, and slioulJ te given, combined with some saline diaphoretic, at bedtime ; but they should never be given except in cases of extreme restlessness, a violent looseness, or when the cough is very trouble- some. For children the syrup of poppies is sufficient. A tea-spoonful or two may be occa- sionally given, according to the patient's age or the violence of the symptoms. During the whole course of the disease it will be highly proper to keep the body open ; and therefore, if costiveness exist, it should be obviated by cooling laxatives, such as the neutral salts and emollient clysters. Where the difficulty of breathing and oppression at the chest are not relieved by bleeding and other antiphlogistic means, a blister may be applied in the neighbourhood of the part, or between the shoulders. In removal of local inflammation a blister often proves a valuable remedy. After the measles are gone off the patient ought to be purged. See Small Pox. If a violent looseness succeed the measles it may be checked by taking for some days a gentle dose of rhubarb in the morning, and an opiate overnight, or by the use of other as- tringents, such as this :—Take chalk mixture, 6 ozs.; syrup of poppies, 6 drachms. Make a mixture. Two table-spoonsful to be taken after every liquid stooL If these do not re- move it bleeding will seldom fail to have that effect. Patients recovering after the measles should be careful what they eat or drink. Their food for some time ought to be light, and in small quantities; and their drink diluting, and rather of an opening nature, as buttermilk, whey, and such-like. They ought also to beware of exposing themselves too soon to the cold air, lest a suffocating catarrh, an asthma, or a consumption of the lungs should ensue. Should a cough, with difficulty of breathing, and other symptoms of a consumption, remain after the measles, small quantities of blood may be frequently let at proper intervals, as the patient's strength and constitution will permit. The camphor mixture, combined with a fourth part of the water of acetated ammonia, forms a -veiy useful medicine in that particular species of consumption which frequently succeeds the measles. He ought likewise to drink asses' milk, to remove to a free air if in a large town, and to ride daily on horseback. He must keep strictly to a diet consisting of milk and vegetables ; and, lastly, if these do not succeed, let him remove to a warmer climate. MEASUREMENT FOR CLOTHING. To iu'^ure a correct fit it is necessary to give the measure in half inches, and state whether the party is upright or inclined to stoop. Tho height is also a good guide. DIRECTIOSS FOE COATS. From 1 jit neck to 2 at waist ,.,, 2 to 3 for loncth of coiit Contro of back at 4 to elbow at 5 . Continue on to 6 for lengtli of arm Kound the mnscle of arm above the elbow Round the same below the elbow Kountl the wrist at fixture 6 Round the chest, under the coat. Round the chest, over the coat .. Round the waist, under the coat. Round the waist, over the coat.. VESTS. From 1 at neck to the length re- quired in front Round the chest Round the waist TROUSERS. From the top of the tronsers to the length required at B From A between the legs to B .. Round the waist, under the waist- coat Round the leg at A Round the knee Round the foot at E MEASURE FOR HAT. The number of inches round the outside of hat MEASURES. Imperial Measure. By the Act 5th Geo. IV. cap. 74 it is enacted, " That the straight line or distance between the centres of the two points in the gold studs in the straight brass rod, now in the custody of the clerk of the House of Commons, whereon the words and figures ' standard yard, 1760,' are engi-aved, shall be, and the same is hereby declared to be, the original and genuine standard of that measure of length or lineal extension called a yard ; and that the same straight line or distance between the centres of the said two points in the said gold studs in the said brass rod, the brass being at the temperature of 62" of Fahrenheit's thennometer, shall be, and is hereby denominated, the ' imperial standard yard ;' and shall be, and is hereby declared to be, the unit or only standard measure of exten- sion, wherefrom or whereby all other measures of extension whatsoever, whether the same be lineal, superficial, or solid, shall be derived, computed, and ascertained ; and that all mea- sures of length shall be taken in parts or multiples, or certain proportions of the said standard yard; and that one-third part of the said standard yard shall be a foot, and the twelfth part of such foot shall be an inch; and that the pole or perch in length shall contain 5^ such yards, the furlong 220 such yards, and the mile 1760 such yards. " And whereas it is expedient that the said standard yard, if lost, destroyed, defaced, or otherwise injured, should be restored of the same length, by reference to some invariable natural standard : and whereas it has been ascertained by the commissioners appointed by his Mrtjesty to inquire into the subject of weights and measures, that the said yard.