[ 90 ] JUL JUM Saline Julep is a mixtui'e of 3 drachms of purified potash and ^ lb. of water; to which are to be added 1 oz. of the syrup of black currants and ^ lb. of lemon juice, or such a quantity of the latter as will be sufficient to saturate the alkali. This compound is often used in febrile diseases by taking two or three table-spoonsful eveiy hour, in order to promote a slight per- spiration. It also increases the secretion of urine, and is frequently employed to restrain vomiting. Vomiting Jolep. Dissolve 4 grains of emetic tartar in 8 ozs. of water, and add to it ^ oz. of the syrup of clove gillyflowers. In the begin- ning of fevers, where there is no topical inflammation, this julep may be given in the dose of one table-spoonful every quarter of an hour till it operates. Antimonial vomits serve not only to evacuate the contents of the stomach, but likewise to promote the different excretions. Hence they are found in fevers to have nearly the same effects as Dr. James's powder. JULIENNE. This soup is composed of carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, celery, lettuce, sorrel, and chervil. The roots are cut in thin slips about an inch long; the onions are halved, and then sliced ; the lettuce and sorrel chopped small. Toss up the roots in a little butter, and when they are done add the lettuce, &c. moisten them with broth, and boil the whole over a slow fire for an hour or more if necessary. Prepare some bread in the usual way, and pour the Julienne over it. JULY. Provisions for domestic consumption now in use are: — Fish. Cod, haddock, mullet, mackerel, her- rings, salmon, soles, plaice, flounders, skate, thornback, carp, tench, pike, eels, lobsters, prawns, shrimps, crayfish, and sturgeon. Fruit. Musk lemons, strawberries, currants, gooseberries, raspberries, red and white Joan- netings, with several early apples and pears, morello and other cherries, peaches, nectarines, apricots, plums, figs, grapes, walnuts for pickling, and rock samphire. Meat. Beef, mutton, veal, lamb, and buck venison. Poultry and Game. The same as in June, with young partridges, pheasants, and wild ducks, called flapears or monitors. Vegetables. Carrots, turnips, potatoes, cabbages, cauliflowers, sprouts, artichokes, peas, kidney beans, cucumbers, celery, radishes, en- dive, onions, garlic, chervil, sorrel, purslane, lettuces, cresses, all sorts of salads, rocambole, scorzonera, salsafy, balm, mint, thyme, and pot herbs of all kinds. JUMBLES. Stir i lb. of powdered loaf sugar and i lb. of butter to a cream ; beat three eggs till very light; throw them all at once into a pan with ^ lb. of sifted flour, and put in the butter and sugar, with a table-spoonful of rose water, a nutmeg grated, and a tea-spoonful of mixed mace and cinnamon. If you have no rose water substitute six or seven drops of strong essence of lemon, or more if the essence is weak. Stir the whole very hard with a knife. Spread some flour on your pasteboard, and flour your hands well; take up with your knife a portion of the dough, and lay it on the board ; roll it lightly with your hands into long thin rolls, which must be cut into equal lengths, curled up in rings, and laid gently in an iron or tin pan, buttered, not too close to each other, as they spread in baking. Bake them in a quick oven about five minutes, and grate loaf sugar over them when cool. The top of the oven may be neai'ly red-hot, otherwise the jumbles will run into each other, and become flat and shapeless. JUMBLES, COMMON. Take lib. of flour, ^Ib. of butter, fib. of sugar, three eggs, and a little nutmeg and rose brandy ; mix the butter and sugar together, and add the flour and eggs. Mould them iu rings, and bake them slowly. JUMBLES, CUP. Five tea-cupsful of flour, three of sugar, one heaped cupful of butter, one of sweet cream, three eggs, and the peel of a lemon grated, or nutmeg or mace if you like. Roll them thinly, and bake them in a quick oven. JUMBLES "for DELICATE PERSONS. Roll a heaped pint of light brown sugar, and rub it in two pints of flour, | lb. of butter, and a dessertspoonful of cinnamon; beat an egg, and mix it with half a tea-cupful of rich milk, in which a very slnall piece of saleratus has been dissolved; stir the whole together with a wine-glass of rose brandy, work it well, roll thinly, and cut them out. Bake with a moderate heat. JUMBLES, JACKSON'S. Mix three tea- cupsful of sugar, one of butter, five of flour, and one tea-spoonful of saleratus in a cup of sour cream and two eggs. Bake in a quick oven. Season them with the peel of a fresh lemon grated, and half a wine-glass of brandy. JUMBLES, MOLASSES. Beat fib. of sugar, the same of bu iter, and three eggs together; stir in half a pint of molasses, add rose brandy and nutmeg, and enough flour to make soft dough. Roll it in rings, and bake as other jumbles. JUMBLES, RICH. Rub 1 lb. of butter into IJlb. of flour; beat four eggs with IJlb. of sugar, and when very light mix them with the butter and flour, adding a glass of rose-water and a nutmeg. Roll them in rings, and bake them slowly. Sift powder sugar over after they ai'o baked.