[ 21 ] HAN HAN sweetened drink, such as the water of wild poppies, which is prepared by boiling gently for two or three minutes a pod or two of the flowers in a pint of water. Having shown how this inconvenience may be avoided the next point is to remedy it when it appears; and the best way to effect this is to wrap the hands up, on going to bed, in linen cloth done over with a little yolk of egg, or they may be rubbed with the following oint- ment :—Cream and deer's or goose grease, of each i oz ; white wax sufficient to make it stiff after melting over a slow fire. The hands must be smeared with this every night, and washed in the morning in tepid water with a little white wine in it. In some habits the hands assume the appear- ance of seal-skin, which deformity proceeds from a great dryness of the skin, and a sharp humour supplied by the cutaneous vessels, which spreads itself all over the surface of the hand, fretting the texture of the skin, and raising it up into little scales, which produce inequalities like those of a file or grater. Others have the skins of their hands chapped, that is to say, full of little chinks and crevices, in which, as in so many fuiTows, is heaped up a thick matter, which renders them so much the more deformed that no paste, whether dry or moist, is capable of taking it out. These chinks proceed commonly from neglecting to dry the hands after they have been wet, which is fre- quently the case with children. Bleachers of linen, and persons who follow similar occupa- tions, are very liable to the evil in this shape. The means of preventing the last two de- formities aie to shun carefully that which we have stated to be the cause of them, and to correct them the foilov/ing liniment will be found efficacious in most cases :—Melt } lb. of fine white wax with 1 oz. of the oil of St. John's wort, and apply this to the hands as often as you conveniently can, persevering for several weeks until the disease is cured. See Chapped Hands. The best remedy for clammy hands is to rub over them powdered dry club moss. Fruit and ink stains may be taken out by im- mersing the hands in water slightly acidulated with oxalic acid, or to which a little pearlash or chloride of lime has been added, observing after- wards to well rinse them in clean water, and not to touch them with soap for some hours, as any alkaline matter will bring back the stains, after their apparent removal by all the above sub- stances, except the last. The use of a little chloride of lime and warm water, or Gowlapd's lotion, will impart a delicate whitenfess to the skin; but the former should be only occa- sionally used, and should be well \vashed off with a little clean water to remove its odour. The use of a little sand or powdered pumice stone with the soap will generally remove the roughness of the skin frequently induced by exposure to cold. HANGING. 1. When a person is found suspended the cord must be instantly cut. The suspended body being gently taken down, every ligature ought to be removed, the head should be supported in an erect posture, and turned towards the left side. 2. Air must be blown upon the face, which should also be sprinkled with cold water. The gullet ought to be stimulated by a feather moistened with oil, and vinegar be applied to the nostrils, while the regions of the heart and throat are gently compressed. Further, the patient ought to be wrapped in warm flannel, or placed between feather beds, and a bladder, filled with tepid water applied to the pit of the stomach: the whole body may also be fomented, or immersed in the lukewarm bath. 3. Moderate friction with warm flannel, to be gradually increased on the left side. 4. The shower bath combined with friction. 5. Stimulating clysters, consisting of salt water and oil. None of these remedies, however, must be resorted to where the blood appears to be determined towards the heart and head. 6. As soon as the first symptoms of resuscita- tion become evident the blowing of air into the nostrils, and aspersion of cold water on the face, ought to be continued. Next, clysters con- sisting of a strong solution of emetic tartar ought to be administered, and the sugillations, or injured parts, be fomented with wine in which camomile flowers have been infused. Lastly, when the ability of swallowing is restored, the patient should take frequent draughts of vinegar diluted with cold water, and mild, cooling laxatives. HANOVER PUDDING. Cut up i lb. of fresh butter in half a pint of milk; set them over the fire till the butter is soft enough to mix thoroughly with the milk ; then take it off, and let it stand till lukewarm. Have ready four well-beaten eggs, and stir them hard into the butter and milk ; then add very gradually 1 lb. of sifted flour, and, lastly, stir in two large table-spoonsful of strong fresh yeast. Beat the whole very hard, cover the pan, and let it stand near the fire for three hours, or till the mixture is quite light. Have ready i lb. of Zante currants, picked, washed, and dried, or i lb. of fine raisins, seeded and cut in half. Dredge the fruit thickl}' with flour to prevent its sink- ing ; then mix it gradually into the pudding, with two large table-spoonsful of sugar, a tea spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and a salt- spoonful of saleratus, or a small tea-spoonful of