MAC MAC [ 169 ] with a skimmer, then a layer of grated cheese and small pieces of butter, and so on; pour over, if you like, some essence of mushrooms, add some white pepper, and finish in a Dutch oven. MACARONI, NEAPOLITAN. Boil 2 lbs. of macaroni for half an hour in salt and water; then put it into a cullender to drain. Take f lb. of grated Parmesan cheese; put a layer of macaroni in a deep dish or tureen, and on it a layer of macaroni and cheese, and so on alter- nately till both are used up, making the Par- mesan the top ; pour over it some gravy a Vetouffade; melt ^ lb. of fresh butter, and put on the whole. Serve it very hot. MACARONI PATfi (1). Stew some maca- roni in butter and water, or broth ; strain it, cut it into pieces, and lay them at the bottom of the dish, adding ham balls, made of ham pounded in a mortar, and blended with butter ; then have ready any kind of game, boned and filleted, sweetbread cut into dice, and mush- rooms, all stewed in good rich sauce; place a layer upon the macaroni, then another layer of meat, and so on until the pie is filled ; add to it equal quantities of cream and gravy, cover it with a paste, and bake it; or omit the paste, and stew it before the fire in a Dutch oven. The macaroni may be mixed with grated Parmesan or rich old cheese. MACARONI PATfi (2). Swell 4 ozs. of pipe macai'oni in milk with a large onion ; put a layer at the bottom of a pie dish, with some bits of butter and scraped cheese sprinkled lightly over; cover the whole with a well- seasoned beefsteak cut small and thin, then some more macaroni, and then another layer of beefsteak; cover the whole with macaroni, pieces of butter, and grated cheese instead of crust. Bake in a slow oven. MACARONI, POTTAGE OF. Take Jib. of macaroni, break it in small pieces, which boil and drain; dress it in a consomme similar to that for mock turtle soup ; pour it into your tureen, and serve grated Parmesan cheese sepa- I'ately. MACARONI PUDDING. Boil i lb. of macaroni in a pint of rich unskimmed milk, with a handful of blanched bitter almonds or peach kernels, and two sticks of cinnamon broken into pieces. It must boil till the maca- I'oni is soft and dissolving; then remove the bitter almonds and the cinnamon; stir in while it is hot \ lb. of fresh butter, I lb. of powder sugar, and half a pint of rich cream ; mix all well, and beat it hard; then beat four eggs till very thick, and light, and stir them gradually into the mixture after it has cooled; add a grated nutmeg and a table-spoonful of brandy ; butter a deep dish, and put in the mixture; set it directly into the oven, and bake it. MACARONI SOUP (1). Boil 1 lb. of the best macaroni in a quart of good stock till it is quite tender ; then take out half, and put it into another stewpau; to the remainder add some more stock, and boil it till you can pulp all the macaroni through a fine sieve ; then put together the two liquors, adding a pint or more of boiling hot cream, the macaroni that was first taken out, and ^ lb. of grated Parmesan cheese ; make it hot, but do not let it boil. Serve it with the crust of a French roll cut into small pieces. MACARONI SOUP (2). Take i lb. of macaroni, and boil it till tender in a quart of veal stock ; then add 3 ozs. of grated Parmesan cheese, a little pounded mace, and five pints more of veal stock ; boil the whole together five minutes, and rub it through a tamis ; then boil it again for ten minutes, skim it, season it with salt and Cayenne pepper to the palate, and add liaison, with the yolks of four eggs and some cream. MACARONI, STEWED (I). Boil in a suf- ficient quantity of beef gravy, flavoured with ham, \ lb. of macaroni, and when about three parts done strain it off; add a gill of new milk, another of cream, \ lb. of grated Parmesan cheese, fresh butter, and Cayenne pepper, with salt; stir the whole over a fire for a few minutes, cover it slightly with more grated Parmesan, smooth the macaroni, brown the top with a salamander, and send it to table. MACARONI, STEWED (2). Put \ lb. of macaroni into a pint of milk, broth, or water, and boil it gently till tender; then add 1 oz. of grated cheese, with a small piece of butter and a tea-spoonful of salt. Mix the whole well, put it on the dish, strew over it 2 ozs. of grated Parmesan or Cheshire cheese, and brown it lightly in a Dutch oven. All the cheese may be put in with the macaroni, and bread crumbs over the top. This article, with shreds of dressed ham or a currv sauce, is excellent. MACARONI, TIMBALE OF. Take some puff paste, roll it thin, and cut it into narrow bands; twist each into a kind of cord, which place round the insides of buttered moulds, snail fashion ; fill each mould with macaroni, and cover the tops with grated bread and Parmesan cheese (equal quantities of each); put the .timbales into a varm oven, and bake them three quarters of an hour ; then turn them on a dish and serve. MACAROON, BITTER (Ice Crkam). Take ^ lb. of bitter macaroons, pound them, and having prepared the cream, eggs, and sugar in the usual way, add the macaroon powder, boil, strain, and finish.