[ 443 ] SLE SLE that a. coiisidei'fiLle while must elapse before we can fall asleep, namely, niitil their greatest violence has abated. The fluids of the body become acrid, the fat is consumed, and there arise at length an inclination to vertigo, violent headache, anxiety, actions without connection, without design, and without consistency. Those W'ho indulge themselves in much sleep are seldom liable to very strong passions. Persons, on the contrary, who sleep too little, frequently contract a violent and vindictive temper. Long- continued wakefulness is capable of changing the temper and mental disposition of the most mild and gentle ; of effecting a complete altera- tion of their features ; and at length of occasion- ing the most singular whims, the strangest deviations in the power of imagination, and in the end absolute insanity. Excess of sleep, however, is not less pre- judicial. The whole body sinks gradually into a complete state of inactivity, the solid parts become relaxed, the blood circulates slowly, and remains particularly long in the head; perspira- tion is disordered, the fluids are incrassated, the body increases in fat and thick humours, and is rendered incapable of being the medium of mental exertion, the memory is enfeebled, and the unhappy sleeper falls into a lethargic state, by whicii his sensibility is in a great measure destroyed, Pei'sons troubled with hypochondriasis and hysterics do themselves much injury by sleep- ing too long, especially in the morning, when the body is enfeebled by its continuance in a heated and unwholesome atmosphere, To such individuals it is also dangerous to remain for a considerable length of time in a state of inactivity. Indeed, excessive sleeping is detrimental to the muscular powers of every person—to the phlegmatic especially, whose fluids will thus soon become vitiated; and san- guine temperaments thence acquire a super- abundance of blood. The melancholy, whose blood circulates slowly, must suffer inconveni- ences in their secretions and excretions by this indulgence; and we generally find that long sleepers are afiBicted with costiveness and ob- structions. Early rising and timely going to bed, if persevered in, will render them more healthy and vigorous. If it can be advantageous to any description of pei'sons to sleep beyond the usual proportion of time it is to the choleric. Sleep immediately after supper is apt to occasion the nightmare or a stagnation of the blood, which by its pressure produces the sensation or idea of this trouble- some bedfellow. It is principally the nervous, the debilitated, and those of an impaired digestion vho are visited by such ten-ific dieams. The proper duration of sleep in youth and adults is usually settled at six or seven hours; in children and the aged, from eight to nine hoars. Yet the individual deviations in the constitution of the body and its various wants scarcely admit of any precise rules. The more bodily weakness we feel the more we may indulge in sleep, provided it be refreshing. If people in a state of health are perfectly cheerful in mind and body when they first awake, this is the most certain criterion that they have slept sufficiently. We should, however, be on our guard not to confound the natural wants of the body with a blamable custom; for most persons habitually sleep too much, or remain longer in bed than they ought. The origin of this destructive custom undoubtedly arises in infancy, when children are permitted to sleep on vei'y soft and warm beds, and encouraged to lie longer than is proper, from a mistaken notion that they cannot sleep too much. By such injudicious treatment they cannot attain a solid texture of the body, and a foundation is laid for many subsequent diseases. The rickets, so very common in many families in the present age, often originate in such indulgences, since the general relaxation of the body and the tendency to profuse perspiration are thus in an extra- ordinaiy degree promoted. At the age of puberty this eff"eminacy of the body and the inclination to sleep, together with the pleasant sensation which a soft and warm bed aff'ords in a waking state, are certainly the first and most frequent causes of a vice that might be effectually prevented by early rising. The custom of sleeping long, when continued to a state of manhood, becomes so habitual that it cannot be relinquished without great strug gles and a firm resolution. Those, then, who are not possessed of this firmness, instead of attaining a strong constitution, will acquire a phlegmatic, relaxed, and cold temperament, which will render them irresolute and incapable of energetic efforts, and from which the mind by degrees becomes as indifferent towards every object as the body is unfit for muscular exer- tion. Hence to listen to the voice of nature in this respect will contribute more to our hap- piness than to shorten our repose by many of the usual but violent means of excitement, when the body is in want of rest. To children at a very early period of life no limits of sleep can be prescribed, but after the sixth or seventh year of their age some regulations become necessary to habituate them to a certain regularity. The just proportion of sleep can be ascertained only by their more or less lively temperament, by their employments, gxercise, and amusements through the day, and