[ 473 J SUM SUM winch, when pure, is of a yellow colour, and after a short time acquires a hard, brittle consist- ence ; and this it is which is considered by some the doctor s gum or liog gum of Jamaica. This gum is in daily use for strengthening plasters. Dissolved in water it is an easy purgative, and thought to be extraordinarily diuretic. The fruit of R. glabra is used for dyeing red, and is perfectly harmless, being eaten by children in the United States with impunity. This fruit is astringent and cooling, and an infusion of them has been recommended as a cooling drink in fevers, and as a gargle in ulceration and inflam- mation of the throat. They are very sour and astringent, but not unpleasant. This sourness is owing to the large quantity of malic acid contained in the pubescence which covers their surface, as, when it is washed away by warm water, the berries are wholly free from acidity; and in such quantity is the acid obtained that it has been recommended to procure it from this source. On cutting the stem a yellow juice comes out between the bark and the wood. The bark, boiled with the fruit, affords a black, ink-like tincture; and both the bark and leaves are astringent, and may be used in tanniiig leather and in dyeing. Excrescences are pro- duced under the leaves, resembling galls in character, and contain large quantities of tannic and gallic acids. These have been used, and found to be even preferable to oak-galls. U. pumila is the most poisonous of the whole genus; and it is related that Lyon, the American botanical collector, was poisoned by it all over his body when merely collecting the seeds, and that he was lamed for a considerable time. R. succedanea, a native of Japan, produces a fleshy fruit about the size of a cherry. This contains a nut, from which, when warm, an oil is ex- pressed, that acquires the consistence of suet, and serves for making candles. Thunberg states that the same oil is obtained from R. vernix. The trunk yields a varnish, but in small quantity, and therefore not worth collecting. The Japan varnish tree (Rhus vernicifera) is a native of Japan and Nepaul, and grows abundantly in the former country, where it furnishes the varnish with which the celebrated Japan lacker-work is made. This varnish, which oozes out of the tree on its being wounded, is procured from stems that are three years old, and is received in some pi'oper vessel. When first collected it is of a lightish colour, and of the consistence of cream, but grows thicker and black on exposure to the air. It is so transparent that, when it is laid pure and unmixed upon boxes and other pieces of furniture, every vein of the wood may be clearly seen; and for this purpose they make choice of the finest sorts of firs and cedars. A dark ground is generally spread underneath the varnish, which causes it to reflect like a looking-glass, and the deposit which is caught in the trough under a grindstone is frequently made use of to form the ground. At other times ground charcoal is used, and occasionally some darker red substance is mixed with the varnish, and sometimes leaf-gold ground very fine, when it is called salplicat. This lackered work is afterwards, for the most part, em- bellished with gold and silver flowers and figures, laid on upon the varnish; but they are very liable to wear off in time. The varnish, which hardens to a transparent and difficultly soluble gum, will not endure any blows, but flies and cracks almost like glass, though it can stand boiling water without receiving any damage. With this they varnish over the posts of their doors, windows, and articles of furniture. It is much superior to Chinese and Siamese varnish. The expressed oil of the seeds becomes as hard as tallow, and with it the Japanese make their candles. R. venenaUi is the swamp sumach, or poison wood of America. It grows abundantly in swamps and low grounds from Canada to Carolina, and is by some supposed to be identical with the pre- ceding species. This also yields a white juice, which exudes between the wood and the bark when the tree is wounded. It becomes per- manently black on exposure to the air, and may be made to afford a brilliant, glossy, durable varnish by boiling it sufficiently before applying it. The juice of the tree stains cloth black, and is with difficulty obliterated with frequent washings. The whole of this shrub is in the highest degree poisonous, but its effects are various on different individuals, and some may even handle it with perfect impunity. la those who come within its influence the whole body is sometimes enormously swollen, and the patient for many days scarcely able to move; but the complaint almost always subsides sponta-. neously without destroying life. The poison is communicated by touching or smelling any portion of it. In forty-eight hours inflammation appears on the skin in large blotches, principally on the extremities and the glandulous parts of the body; soon after pustules arise in the inflamed parts, and fill with watery matter, attended with burning and itching. In two or three days the eruptions suppurate, after which tho inflammation subsides, and the ulcers heal in a short time. R. perniciosa and juglandifoiia possess the same poisonous properties. Rhus coriaria is said to furnish the bark with which Turkey leather is tanned. It is a native of the whole of the south of Europe, and its seeds and leaves are used in medicine as restringent, styptic, tonic, and cooling. Tho