L 198' ] ME A ME A ducing by far tlie most powerful influence upon the nervous system. As the primary operation of every narcotic is stimulant, tea is found to ex- hilarate and refresh us, although there exist individuals who are so morbidly sensible to the action of certain bodies of this class, that feel- ings of depression, accompanied with various nervous sensations and an unnatural vigilance, follow the potation of a single cup of strong tea ; while others experience, from the same cause, symptoms indicative of derangement of the digestive organs; but these are exceptions from which no general rule ought to be deduced. The salubrity of the infusion to the general mass of the community is established by suffi- cient testimony to outweigh any argument founded on individual cases. It must, however, be admitted that, if this beverage be taken too soon after dinner, the digestion of the meal may be disturbed by the distention it will occasion, as well as by its influence as a diluent; the nar- cotic and astringent principles may also operate in arresting chymification ; but when a physi- cian gives it his sanction it is with the under- standing that it shall be taken in moderate quantities, and at appointed seasons. When drunk four hours after the principal meal it will assist the ulterior stages of digestion, and pro- mote the insensible perspiration, while it will afford to the stomach a grateful stimulus after its labours. In enumerating the advantages of tea it must not be forgotten that it has in- troduced and cherished a spirit of sobriety; and it must have been remarked by every physician of general practice, that those persons who dis- like tea frequently supply its place with spirits and water. The addition ot milk certainly diminishes the astringency of tea; that of sugar may please the palate, but cannot modify the virtues of the infusion. Supper. In the time of Elizabeth the nobi- lity and gentry were accustomed to dine at eleven, to sup between five and six, and to go to bed at ten. It is, therefore, evident that any argument in favour of this meal, founded upon the healthy condition of our ancestors, must be fallacious. By supper, in modern times, we understand a late meal just before bedtime; but, as sleep is not favourable to every stage of digestion, it is veiy questionable whether re- tiring to rest with a full stomach can, under any circumstances, be salutary. During the first part of the process, or that of chymification, a person so situated may, perhaps, sleep quietlj', unless, indeed, the morbid distention of the stomach should impede respiration and occasion distress; but when the food has passed out of the stomach, and the processes of chylification and sanguification have been established, the natural propensity of the body is for activity, and the invalid awakes at this peiiod, and remains in a feverish state for some hours. Upon this general principle, then, suppers are to be avoided ; that is to say, hearty suppers, which require the active powers of the stomach for their digestion. The same objection cannot be urged against a light repast, which is gene- rally useful to dyspeptics; and it has been truly and facetiously observed that " some invalids need not put on their nightcaps if they do not first bribe their stomachs to good behaviour." An egg lightly boiled, or a piece of dry toast, with a small quantity of white wine negus, will often secure a tranquil night, which would otherwise be passed with restlessness. Amongst the intellectual part of the community there has ever existed a strong predilection in favour of suppers. The labour of the day has been performed, the hour is sacred to conviviality, and the period is one which is not likely to be interrupted by the calls of business. To those in health such indulgences may be occasionally allowed; but the physician should be cautious how he gives his sanction to their wholesome- ness. The hilarity which is felt at this period of the day must not be received as a signal for repairing to the banquet, but as an indication of the sanguification of the previous meal.— {Dr. Paris.) MEASLES. The measles, like other fevers, are pi-eceded by alternate fits of beat and cold, with sickness and loss of appetite. The tongue is white, but generally moist. There is a short cough, a heaviness of the head and eyes, drowsiness, and a running at the nose. Sometimes, indeed, the cough does not come before the eruption has appeared. There is an inflammation and heat in the eyes, accompanied with a defluxion of sharp rheum, and great acuteness of sensation, so that they cannot bear the light without pain. The eye- lids frequently swell so as to occasion blindness. The patient generally complains of his throat, and a vomiting or looseness often precedes the eruption. The stools in children are commonly greenish ; they complain of an itching of the skin, and are remarkably peevish. Bleeding at the nose is common both before and in the progress of the disease. About the fourth day small spots, resembling flea-bites, appear, first upon the face, then upon the breast, and afterwards on the ex- tremities : these may be distinguished from the small pox by their scarcely rising above the skin. The fever, cough, and difficulty of breathing, instead of being removed by the eruption, as in the small pox, are rather in- creased ; but the vomiting generally ceases. About the sixth or seventh day from the time of sickening the measles begin to turn