C 79 ] IPE 10 D it an egg very well beaten, a little sugar, and grated nutmeg. Do not let it boil after tbe egg is put in, as it is apt to curdle, and it will not be so light or so easy of digestion. It cannot be too often impressed on tbe minds of cooks that cleanliness is nearly the first thing necessary in order to become even a tolerable one; but in sickness it is quite an essential. What can be more disagreeable, to a person whose appetite is nearly gone, than to taste in the gruel or the barley water something which ought not to be thei'e—some flavour of onion or gravy ? Yet this is often the case, and merely because a saucepan is not kept on pur- pose for those delicate things. If the same saucepan is used for all purposes it can hardly fail, even if well scoured, to impart a most dis- agreeable taste to anything which is made with milk. We need not tell those who attend to the 'wants of the poor the great comfort and benefit they derive from a basin of gruel being given them when ill, and a little broth or jelly when recovering from an illness; but how many are there who know nothing practically of our Saviour's remark, that "it is more blessed to give than to receive ;" who, perhaps, think they have done all that is required of them if they subscribe to some charity, and add their names to the already well-filled list. That is all very well, but still something more ought to be done. The sick person pining for a refreshing draught or a little gruel, it may be within a stone's throw of your dwelling, is surely a proper object for your care. The sick child recovering from a long fever, craving for nourishing food, is certainly a proper channel in which to direct I your charity. "Love of this world," indolence, j want of thought, may have hitherto blinded i your eyes to the wants of others; but once try 1 the experiment—" Feed the hungry, clothe the naked, visit the sick "—and we are sure you will i from that time exert yourself in their behalf, and you will not forget the injunction, " To do good, and to distribute, forget not." IODINE exists in sea water and in marine plants. The air on the seacoast contains minute portions of it; indeed, it gives to that air the peculiar smell by which it is usually characterised. ! Iodine, though only obtained in an isolated state of late years, has been long employed as the efficient principle of other preparations and therapeutic agents, namely, burnt sponge and certain mineral waters. It is only since it has been procured as a distinct principle that its i action has been ascertained with precision. In 1 the present day it is administered rather in I some artificial compound than as pure iodine, owing to its very sparing solubility in water. Iodine in substance, however, when applied to the skin, stains it brown; and even the very small quantity which can be dissolved in water is sufficient to cause rubefaction, and in the form of baths produces decided action both on the surface of the body and the general system. When applied to ulcers or any breach of the skin it occasions heat, and a sense of pricking and tingling; it is also absorbed, and may be discovered in the blood and the secretions of the patient. Taken internally, even in small doses, it causes a sense of heat in the mouth and throat. If much diluted by the vehicle in which it is given, and the stomach be healthy, it appears to do little more than increase the digestive powers; but in larger and stronger doses it creates great heat in the region of the stomach, which becomes sensible to pressure, with a feeling of weight, heartburn, and often nausea and vomiting. In very large doses it acts as an irritant poison. It is not merely an irritant poison when taken in a large dose, but is a slow or accumulative poison even when taken in medicinal doses for a length of time. It has been generally represented as causing emaciation even to a frightful extent; but though this has occurred in some instances, it does not seem to be frequent, if we except the absorption of certain glands, especially the mammae of females. The diseases in which it has been found use- ful are glandular swellings, especially broncho- cele, or goitre, which rarely resists its action; in some strumous diseases, in chronic rheuma- tism, and also as an antidote against poisoning with strychnia, brucia, and veratria; but its claims to confidence are not clear in case of such formidable poisons. IPECACUANHA. This emetic is the pow- dered root of a Brazilian plant, called Cephaelis ipecacuanha. Ipecacuanha is one of the safest and mildest emetics, and possesses this peculiar advantage, that it passes off by the skin or bowels if it should not operate by vomiting. In dysenteries it is almost a specific, and often contributes to perform a cure in a very few days. When given in powder its action is more certain than in any other form : hence it is now employed in many diseases where full vomiting is indicated, for which purpose from 15 to 25 grains are pre- scribed for a full dose. It is also beneficially administered in very small doses, so as neither to operate by vomiting, purging, nor sweating; for instance, a third or fourth part of a grain to be taken every half-hour or oftener, with a view to velicate the intestinal canal, and by its nau- seating effect to give a different tone to the action of the stomach and bowels. Thus it is recommended to be given in the paroxysm of