[ ] LOO LOT mei'ciiry clean paper must be placed; and upon this, at length, the glass plate is pressed down hy the right hand, while the paper is gently removed with the left. The plate is now covered with a thicker paper or cloth, and a heavy weight laid on it, so that the super- fluous quicksilver may be expressed, and the tin adhere closely to the glass: when it is suffi- ciently dry the weights are taken o£f, and the work is complete. Looking-glasses should not be placed against damp walls, or in other moist situations, where the quicksilver loses its tenacity, and the beauty of the glass will in a short time be impaired. To clean a looking-glass. Having blown the dust off the gilt frame, or removed it with a very light, soft dusting-brush, wash the glass, taking particular care not to wet or rub the gilding. Keep for this purpose a piece of fine sponge, a soft cloth, and an old silk handker- chief, all perfectly clean, as the least grit ^vould scratch the surface of the glass. First sponge it with a little spirits of wine or gin and water so as to remove all spots, then dust the glass over with powder blue tied in muslin, rub it lightly and quickly off, and polish with the silk hand- kerchief. Swinging looking-glasses. The pintle upon which a looking-glass swings is commonly a piece of iron wire, having a screw thread turned at each end. One end is inserted in the frame of the glass, and the other, passing through the stand, is received into a mahogany knob, which, on being turned, serves to tighten the frame to the stand, and thus keep the plate on any desired slope. After a little time the screw wears away the fine indentations in the wood, the hole becomes larger, and the thread of the screw, having no hold to tighten the stand to the frame, ceases to act, and the glass falls to the perpendicular. Many schemes are then resorted to, such as wedging with paper, &c., to remedy the incon- venience ; but the effect of these is only tem- porary. The best way of proceeding is to get a small metal plate counter-sunk into the side of the frame on the one hand, and another into the knob. Both these plates must have a female ihread cut to receive the screw, and then the frame can be tightened with certainty by merely turning the knob; or one end of the pintle may be squared and inserted firmly in the knob, while the other, having a screw thread, will tighten or relax the frame, and stand as desired. The purchasers of glasses should always get this done before receiving them, and we hope this hint will induce manufacturers to adopt so cheap and certain a remedy in all cases in future, because the inconvenience is a yery general one, and often of long standing. LOOSENESS. See Diahrhcea. LORRAINE SOUP. Take lib. of almonds, blanch them, and beat them fine in a mortar, with a very little water to keep them from oiling ; then take all the white part of a large roasted fowl, with the yolks of four poached eggs, and pound the whole together as fine as possible. Take three quarts of strong veal broth—let it be very white, and all the fat skimmed off clean—pour it into a stewpan with the other ingredients, and mix them well together. Boil them gently over a slow fire, and mince the white part of another fowl very fine; season it with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a little beaten mace; put in a bit of butter about the size of an egg, with a spoonful or two of the soup strained, and set it over the fire to keep quite hot. Cut two French rolls into thin slices, and set them before the fire to crisp; then take one of the hollow loaves which are made for oysters, and fill it with the minced fowl; close the roll as neatly as possible, and keep it hot; strain the soup through a very fine sieve into a clean saucepan, and let it stew till it is of the thick- ness of cream; put the crisped bread into the dish or tureen, pour the soup over it, place the roll with the minced meat in the middle, and serve it up. LOTION is literally a wash, being a liquid for bathing any inflamed or otherwise diseased part. We shall only mention a few, as under the heads of particular parts of the body and diseases we have mentioned such lotions as are applicable. AcETATED Lotion of Ammonia. Rectified spirit of wine, 2 ozs.; acetated liquor of am- monia, 5 ozs. In phlegmonous or local in- flammation. Black Wash. Calomel, 2 drachms; lime water, 1 pint. In syphilitic ulcers, &c. Eye Water. Liquor of acetated ammonia, 2 ozs. ; camphor mixture, 6 ozs. This is a good application after ophthalmia, when the eyes are relaxed an^ weak. See Collyrium. For the Pdrulent Sore Eyes of Children. Blue vitriol, 3 grains; camphor mixture, 5 ozs. For Painful Sore Eyes. Opium, 10 grains, dissolved in 12 ozs. of boiling water, and strained, to which add 6 grains of camphor. Lotton for Scorbutic Ulcers. Tincture of myrrh and lime water, of each 2 ozs. Lotion for Stings of Wasps, Bees, Gnats, &c. One or two applications of the following lotion are usually quite sufficient to remove the pain and inflammation attendant on the stings of the above insects :—Take rose water, 4 ozs.; acetated liquor of ammonia, 2 ozs. ; tincture of bella- donna, 1 drachm. Make a lotion, to be applied to the injured part, in the way of fomentation, by means of a piece of linen rag.