M A R [ ] M A R the animal has probably been fed upon oil cakes, ■which may have fattened and increased its bulk, but certainly it will be found not to have improved either the flavour or the appearance of the meat. The grain of cow beef is closer, the fat whiter, and the lean scarcely so red as that of ox beef. When you see beef of which the fat is hard and skinny, and the lean of a deep red, you may suppose it to be of an inferior kind; and when the meat is old you may know it by a line of a horny texture running through the meat of the ribs. Oysters. Oysters, when alive and full of vigour, will close fast upon the knife on open- ing, and let go as soon as they are wounded in the body. Of the various species those called the native Milton, being the fattest and whitest, are most esteemed ; but some prefer the Col- chester, Pyfleet, and Milford oysters. Partridges are best and most in season at i.... end of harvest, before they have either trod or laid. A partridge, if it be old, has a white bill and bluish legs; but if it be young it has a blackish bill and yellowish legs. If new it will have a fast firm vent; but if stale it will have a green vent, and will peel if you touch the vent hard with your finger. If they have fed on green corn, and their crops are full, they will taint there; and to know this open the bill and smell at the mouth. A partridge of this sort is what the French admire. Partridges have a temperate heat, but incline a little to dryness. They feed upon snails, chickweed, tops of leeks, and all manner of good and wholesome com. They are never subject to pips or rheumatic diseases, which makes them live till they are almost twenty years old. Peacocks. They are seldom used except for great feasts, and more to make a show than for the goodness of the meat, and then a pie will best suit the flesh of them A pea-chicken is exceedingly good meat, but must be dressed the same day or the day after it is killed. Peahens lay, sit, feed, and bring forth their young of them- selves, without any trouble to their owners. Peacocks are, as poets say, the beloved birds of Juno, which none durst kill in old times for fear of the displeasure of that jealous and revengeful goddess. Among the Romans Quin- tus Hortensius is recorded to be the first that brought them to the table, whose commenda- tions made them so desired, that in a little time a peahen's egg was sold for ten pieces of silver, and the carcass for twenty times as much. Leo X., the famous epicurean pope, caused their flesh to be made into sausages, for which he paid every year many hundred ducats. St. Austin writes of peacocks' flesh that in a twelvemonth it corrupts not after it is dressed, drawing thence some far-strained comparison about the soul's immortality. Pigeons. Dovehouse pigeons, when newly killed, feel stiff and firm in the vent; but when stale killed they are limber and green in the vent; if old, i-ed legged. Turtle-doves for the most part are white, and they have a bluish ring about their neck. After they are matched and are bred together, if one of them dies, the other will never match again with anj' other, but will pine away and die. The best way to kill pigeons is to blood them to death under the wings, which makes their flesh more cold and white, insomuch that the Italians usually give them to sick persons for agues as we do chickens. Plovers There are four kinds of plovers— the green, grey, stone, and bastard plover, called a lapent. The first two are the best. When new they are limber footed ; when fat they feel thick and hard in the vent; but when lean they feel thin in the vent; when stale they are dry footed. These birds keep sweet and good the longest of any in England. A grey plover has ever been in great esteem, and the ancients have raised this proverb made on a curious and malcontented stomach: "A grey plover cannot please him. " Pork should have a thin rind, and when it is fresh the meat is smooth and cool; but when it looks flabby, and is clammy to the touch, it is not good ; and pork, above all meats, is disagree- able when it is at all stale. If you perceive many enlarged glands, or, as they are usually termed, kernels, in the fat of pork, you may conclude that the pig has been diseased, and the pork cannot be wholesome. Prawns and Shrimps. These fish, when in perfection, afford a pleasant scent, are very firm, and their tails turn stifily inwards. They have a bright colour when fresh ; but their tails grow limber, the brightness of their colour goes off, and they become pale and clammy when stale. Quails. The quail is smaller than a pigeon, yet much larger than a lark. They are fine birds when fat. The best come from France and Germany. They are fattened in large cages, and sold by Germans, who bring them from abroad, to the poulterers in London. Some others imagine that quails have a secret property of engendering the falling sickness, which certainly must be a mistake, for we read that, when the Israelites loathed manna, quails were sent them as the best and daintiest meat of all other. Rabbit. If she is newly killed she will be stiff; if stale killed, limber and slimy. If old her claws are very long and rough, and the wool mottled with grey hairs; if young, the ^aws and wool smooth.