[ 148 ] LIG Llil getting the casks out of the hoLl Jet the rest get the capstan bars, grating, handspikes, and lashing ready. Lay two capstan bars parallel to each other, about six feet apart, on which place three gratings, and lash them together; then lay two more capstan bars athwart the end of the former, one on each side of the grating, and secure them with good lashings, which will form a square platform for the men to stand on. Next let an empty butt be secured to each side of the square by means A slings. At the same time part of the crew may be employed in forming a square on the other side of the deck with four more capstan bars, which is to be placed on the top of the cask, and passed down to the lower square. A handspike may also be lashed to each corner of the raft in an upright positios, a life-line being passed round it, and made fast to the upper end of the handspikes, which will be above the platform. Lines may be passed also in various directions across it for the men to hold Tjy. It may be hoisted into the water in various ways. The buoyancy of four butts, containing one hundred and eight gallons beer measure, is equal to the weight of nearly thirty men, allowing 150 lbs. to each man. LIGHT. See Akgand Lamp, Candle, Gas, and Lamp. LIGHTNING. {See Conductoes of Light- ning.) When persons happen to beovertaken bya thunder-storm, although they may not be terrified by the lightning, yet they naturally wish for shel ter from the rain which usually attends it; and therefore, if no house be at hand, they generally take refuge under the nearest tree. But they thus expose themselves to a double danger; first, because their clothes being thus kept dry, their bodies are rendered more liable to iniury, the lightning often passing harmlessly over a body the surface of which is wet; and, secondly, because a tree or any elevated object, instead of warding off, serves to attract and conduct the lightning, which, in its passage to the ground, frequently rends the trunks and branches, and kills any person or animal who happens to be close to it at the time. Instead of seeking pro- tection, then, by retiring under the shelter of a tree, hayrick, pillar, wall, or hedge, the person should either pursue his way to the nearest house, or get to a part of the road or field which has no high objects that can draw the lightning towards it, and remain there until the storm has subsided. It is particularly dangerous to stand near leaden spouts, iron g.ates, or palisades at such times, metals of all kinds hav^ng so strong an attraction for lightning as frequently to draw it out of the com-se which it would otherwise have takeu. When in a house avoid sitting or standing near the window, door, or walls during a thun- der gust. The nearer you are placed to the middle of the room the better. The greatest danger to be apprehended from lightning is the explosion of powder magazines, which might, in a great degree, be secured from danger by insulation, or by lining the bulk- heads and floorings with materials of a non- conducting nature, the expense of which would not be great. When a person is struck by lightning strip the bodj^ and throw bucketsful of water over it for ten or fifteen minutes; let continued frictions and inflations of the lungs be prac- tised ; and gentle shocks of electricity should be made to pass through the chest, when a skilful person can be procured to apply it, and apply blisters to the breast. The use of electricity in these cases of apparent death is earnestly ad^dsed, because it does not depend upon mere theory; for instances of its success in real cases, as well as in experiments made upon fowls and other small animals, corroborate it, many of which, after being completely deprived of sense and motion by a strong electrical shock passed through the chest, have been recovered by ti'ans- mitting slighter shocks through the same parts; and in this way animation has been suspended and restored alternately for a considerable num- ber of times. Besides, persons seemingly killed by lightning have frequently been restored by the ordinary means used in cases of apparent death; and, from the superior stimulant power of electricity, there is every reason to think that it would have been successful in many cases where these alone have failed. LIGHTS, CALF'S : To Dkess. Cut them into large squares, clean them, and when per- fectly washed from blood put them over the fire to boil. Next remove them to another pan in which is some butter, do them without brown- ing, and dredge thereon a little flour, with the addition of some gravy; stir the whole con- tinually, and season with pepper, salt, parsley, a bay leaf, a clove, and some garlic; boil over a brisk tire, keep shaking it, and when three parts done put in small onions and mush- rooms. Thicken the sauce with the yolks of two eggs, chopped parsley, and a little lemon juice. LIGNUM VIT^. See GuaiacuM. LIME. As a medicine lime is of consider- able use, and has lately been employed with success in the fevers of America. It is, how- ever, chiefly prescribed in a state of solution, when it is called lime water. This fluid is pre- pared by gradually mixing ^Ib. of new quick- lime with twelve pints of boiling distilled water. The whole is suffered to stand in a covered