PLO PLU [ 342 ] be given combined with some diaphoretic ; e.g., the compound powder of ipecacuanha, 10 grains, &c. If the patient's strength be much exhausted by the disease it will be necessary, at this time, to support him with frequent small draughts of wine whey, negus, or the like. When the pain and fever are gone it will be proper, after the patient has recovered sufficient strength, to give him some gentle purges. He ought likewise to use a light diet of easy digestion, and his drink should be butter- milk, whey, and other things of a cleansing nature. PLOVERS : To Carve. This is performed nearly in the same manner as directed for a Hare, dividing the back into two pieces, which, with the legs, are the most esteemed parts. PLOVERS : To Choose. Choose them by the hardness of the vent, which shows that they are fat; and when new they are limber-footed. In other respects choose them by the same marks as fowls. There are three sorts—the grey, tiie green, and the bastard plover, or lap- ^ving. PLOVERS: To Dress. Green plovers should be dressed the same as woodcocks, with- out drawing, and served on a toast. Grey plovers should be stewed. Make a forcemeat with the yolks of two hard eggs bruised, some marrow cut fine, artichoke bottoms cut small, and sweet herbs, seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. 2)tuff the birds, and put them into a saucepan ■with just a sufficient quantity of good gravy to cover them, one glass of white wine, and a blade of mace; cover them closely, and let them stew gently till they are tender ; then take up the plovers, lay them in a dish, and keep them hot; put a piece of butter rolled in flour to thicken the sauce, and let it boil till smooth; squeeze into it a little lemon juice, skim it, and pour it over the plovers. PLOVERS, BOILED. They should be boiled in a good celery sauce, white or brown ; or they may be roasted like any other fowl, with good gravy in the dish. PLOVERS' EGGS. Boil them ten minutes, and serve them on a napkin either hot or cold. PLOVERS AU GRATIN. Pick, clean, and singe four plovers; make a farce with their in- testines, excepting the gizzards, minced and mixed with half the quantity of grated bacon, a little shred parsley and shallots, salt, and pepper; fill the plovers with this ; lay a gratin on your dish of about the thickness of an inch, place the plovers on it, and fill the spaces between them with the same; raise the gratin round, but take care not to cover the breast with it; lay slices of bacon over the whole, set it over a moderate fire, with rather a brisk one at the top. When done drain off all the fat, and serve them with an Italienne. PLOVERS A LA PERIGEAUX. Put four plovers into a stewpan, with a dozen whole trufEes skinned, a bouquet, some basil, salt, and pepper; give them a few turns in a little butter, and then add a glass of champagn.3 and six ladlesful of Espagnole; skim well, an.l when done take out the birds and truffles, and place them on a dish, the truffles at the top ; reduce the sauce, add the juice of a lemon, and serve. PLOVERS, ROASTED. Make a farce with the intestines of four plovers au gratin, stuff the birds with this farce, sew it in, and fasten them on skewers; cover them with slices of bacon, and wrap them in paper; fix the skewers to a spit, and roast the birds. When quite done unfasten and dish them. Serve with a ragout of truffles poured over them. PLUCK. See Lamb's Head akd Pluck and Calf's Pltjok. PLUM CAI^:E. See Cake, Plum. PLUM CREAM. This is made in the same manner as Peach Cream with the magnum bonum plum. The other kinds will do, but the one mentioned is the best. PLUM MARMALADE. Take 6 lbs. of plums and 4 lbs. of sugar ; stone and put the fruit into a cullender, beat it through with a wooden pestle into a preserving-pan, which set on the fire to dry the pulp, stirring it constantly. In the meantime clarify and boil the sugar to jMite casse, then mix it with the fruit (still on the fire), and stir till the whole is of the con- sistence of jelly ; then take it off, and pour the marmalade into pots. If the plums are not quite ripe they must be boiled once or twice before they are pressed through the cullender. Some of the kernels may be added if approved. They should be pounded before they are put in the marmalade. PLUM PUDDING. Cut the crumb of a penny loaf into slices, and pour over them a sufficient quantity of boiling milk to soak them. When quite soft beat the bread up with i lb. of clarified suet, -J- lb. of raisins stoned, ^ lb. of currants, sugar to the taste, five eggs well beaten, candied orange, lemon, and citron, and a few bitter almonds pounded. Mix the ingre- dients thoroughly, add a cupful of brandy, pour into a dish, and bake it. When done turn it out and strew powder sugar over. These in- gredients make as good a pudding boiled. Take care to flour well the cloth or mould used for this purpose. Few things require more boiling than a plum pudding; be careful, therefore, to let it be sufficiently done.