[: 4-06 J RYE to mix it completely ; then add a spoonful, or rather more, according to the strength you desire, of old Jamaica rum ; stir it, and pour it into a mould, or glasses if intended to liand round for evening parties. EUMFUSTIAN. Whisk up the yolks of half a dozen eggs until they are well frothed, and put them to a quart of strong beer, to which is added a pint of gin. Boil up a bottle of sherry in a saucepan, with a stick of cinnamon or nutmeg grated, a dozen large lumps of sugar, and the rind of a lemon peeled very thin. When the wine boils it is poured on the beer and gin, and is then called rumfustian. It is drunk hot. . RUMP SOUP. Take a good fresh-killed shin of beef, and cut off all the fleshy pieces; add 1 lb. of lean ham and 2 lbs. of veal, and put the whole into a large stewpan ; set it over a slow fire, and let it brown, but not burn. In the ipeantime take the remainder of the beef, put it into a large soup pot filled up with water, and before it boils add the meat in the stewpan to it. When it boils take off the scum; then add six. onions, 1 oz. of black pepper, a bundle of thyme, a little winter savory, and let the whole stew till the soup is rich and good. Then take two ox- tails, cut them into pieces about two inches in length, and fry them in butter till they are nicely browned; then strain and skim the soup, return it into a clean pot, and let it boil till it is rich and fine. Put J lb. of rice into water, and let it swell; then drain it, add it to the soup, and boil the whole together for ten minutes. Season to your taste with white pepper, Cayenne, and salt; The rumps must be stewed until they are tender, with a handful of onions shred, before they are fried, and then served up with the soup. RUPTURE. See Heenia. ';r,-TO _ RUSKS. Melt 4 ozs. of butter in half a pint of new milk; then add to this seven eggs ■well beaten, a quarter of a pint of yeast, and 8 ozs. of sugar. Put this mixture by degrees into as much flour as will make an extremely light paste, more like batter, and set it to rise before the fire for half an hour; then add more flour to make it rather stiffer, but not stiff; work it -well, and divide it into small loaves or cakes, about five or six inches wide, and flatten them. When baked and cold slice them the thickness of rusks, and brown them a little in the oven. RUST. See Coreoston, Anti - attrition, Bars (Bright), and Ikon. RYAN'S ESSENCE OF COLTSFOOT. See Coltsfoot, Essence of. RYE. As a bread corn rye (Secah cereale) holds a high rank among the nations of northern Europe, and, being of a hardy constitution, it gron-8 in regions where wheat would perish. Like almost all the important cereals, its native country is unknown. It has been thought by some to have originated in Crete, by others in the Levant, and another class in Egypt. It would almost seem, from its hardy constitution, which enables it to be cultivated even to the edge of perpetual snow, and in regions where the subsoil is for ever frozen, that it was origin- ally obtained from some such countiy. Tlie grain of rye contains less bran and more flour than that of wheat. The flour is nutritious, and the bread that is made of it is of a dark colour, like gingerbread, close, cool, pasty, well flavoured, with an agreeable odour, and keeps seven or eight days without becoming dry. It is not so nutritious as that of wheat, and is rather heavy: but strong stomachs succeed in digesting it, and, where it can without incon- venience be used, it has the property of stimu- lating the action of the bowels. It is stated by M. Courhaut that persons who live exclusively on rye grow freely till they are seven or eight years old, after which their growth is slow till the age of twenty-two. During this time, he says, some are affected with leanness, scrofula, and obstructions, and in them puberty is not manifested till they are twenty-four years old ; they are low in stature, but at the age of twenty or twenty-four they begin to grow, and become full-bodied and strong. The women of the latter age are as fresh and blooming as girls of fifteen or sixteen. It is said that dogs fed with the bread of rye are dull and sluggish, and are affected with running humours from the eyes ; the uric acid of their urine is diminished, and albumen and mucus increased. By fermenta- tion and distillation a spirit is obtained from it, and it constitutes two-thirds of the grain from which hoUands, or geneva, is distilled, the remaining third being malted baiiey; and the flavour is communicated by adding juniper berries. Gathered before it is ripe, and dried, the grain is in some parts used as green peas. Dried and roasted when ripe, some mix it with coffee, or use it entirely as a substitute for that article. The flour of rj'e yielded, by the analysis of Einhoff, 3'27 of albumen, 9-48 of gluten, 11-19 of mucilage, 61'09 of starch, 3 27 of saccharine matter, 6'38 of lignin, and 5'42 of loss. The straw is very valuable for many pui"poses : it is extensively employed for straw plait, in hat-making, mat-making, and in stuffing horses' collars. The stalks, if cut before they are ripe, are as tough as many fibrous substances, and are frequently used for tying and binding materials. Rye is subject to a disease called ergot, which is produced by a fungus, called by De Candolle Schrotium clavus, and by Queckett Ergotatia abortifaciens. Grain thus affected is highly dangerous: even in the quantity of