STE STO [ 464 ] and from boiling or frying in the process Leing conducted by means of an aqueous, and not by an oily liquid. It is necessary tliat the fire be moderate, for a strong heat being applied would be very injurious. The liquids employed as the medium for applying the heat are usually water, gravy, or broth, the quantity of which must be such as shall prevent the meat from burning and adhering to the pan. It is not requisite that the liquid be made to boil in stewing. It should only be raised nearly to a simmering heat, which mil retard the fluid being evaporated too quickly. The closeness of the vessel will only prevent the ■waste of the liquid. If it diminishes too quickly it must from time to time be re- plenished. The management of the fire in cooking is in all cases a matter of importance ; but in no case is it so necessary to be attended to as in preparing stews or made dishes. Not only palatableness, but even the strength or rich- ness of all made dishes seems to depend very much upon the management of the heat em- ployed in cooking them. The most proper sorts of animal food for stewing are such as abound in fibre, and which are too dry or too tough for roasting. When beef or mutton is rather too old or too coarse- flavoured, and not tender enough for the spit or the gridiron, it may by stewing be not only rendered tolerably palatable, but even some- times savoury and good. But the stewing pro- cess is not confined to flesh of this sort; for veal and other sorts of young flesh, which abound in gelatine, when properly stewed, are much relished. The vegetables most usually stewed are turnips, carrots, potatoes, peas, beans, and other leguminous seeds. Some fruits are also cooked in this way. Stewing is nothing else than boiling by means of a small quantity of an aqueous fluid, and continuing the operation for a long time to make the substance tender, to loosen its texture, to render it more sapid, and to retain and concentrate the most essential parts of animal or vegetable food. If the stewpan be closely shut it is evident that none of the nutritive principles can escape, and must either be found in the meat itself or in the liquid. The water or gravy in which the meat is stewed being capable of dissolving the gelatine and albumen, the greater part of them becomes separated during the simmering process. Now, since the firm texture of the bundles of fibres of the meat is owing to the solid gelatine and albumen gluing them as it were together, when they are dissolved and disengaged the meat must be greatly disorganised. These principles, as well as the fat osmazome, are partly disengaged from the meat, and become united to the gravy. It is to these, indeed, that the gravy owes all its richness and ex- cellence. The muscular fibres and the tendons acquire a gluey appearance and texture, and the whole forms a savoury gelatinous stew, gravy, or soup. No scorching or browning of the meat takes place if the process is properly conducted, for the temperature to which it is exposed does not •exceed the boiling point of water. In stewing the vegetables, saccharine matter is formed; starch and mucilage are rendered soluble, and of course set free the woody fibre, which either floats through the liquid or adheres together very slightly. It accordingly con- stitutes either a pasty fluid, or converts the vegetable to a soft pulp, sometimes their original shape being preserved entire, and at other times not. STING. See Adder and Lotion. STITCH. See Spasms. STOCK FOR BROWN OR WHITE SOUPS. Take 1 lb. of skate, five flounders, and 2 lbs. of eels; cut them in pieces, put them into a stewpan, with as much water as will cover them, a little mace, an- onion stuck with cloves, a head of celery, two parsley roots sliced, some pepper and salt, and a bunch of sweet herbs; cover closely, strain it off for use if it is for brown soup, fry the fish brown in butter, and then put it to stew. STOCK FOR GRAVY SOUP, OR GRAVY. Cut a knuckle of veal into slices ; slice also 1 lb. of lean beef aird 1 lb. of lean gammon of bacon ; put these into a stewpan, with three scraped carrots, a couple of onions, a couple of turnips, two heads of celery, and two quarts of water. Let the meat stew till quite tender, but it must not be brown. When thus prepared it will serve either for soup or brown or white gravy. If for brown gravy it must be first coloured in the usual manner. STOCKINGS. In purchasing these choose those which have not been stiffened; for this is done to give a poor article the appearance of a stout one, by holding it over a stove in which brimstone is burned. Most persons in examining the quality look to the bend about the calf, and therefore the makers take care to have this the strongest part. But those parts which first wear out, such as the foot, particularly the heel, should always be the strongest; and therefore in selecting take the stoutness of these, as com- pared with the other parts, for your guidance. Some stockings are made of double thickness at the heel, and these should be preferred, the superior quality compensating for the trifling extra cost. In judgmg a silk stocking the