[ 359 ] PQ W POX titles at a time, and kept in glass vessels closely Stopped. Indeed, no powders ought to be ex- posed to the air, or kept too long, otherwise their virtues will be in great measure destroyed. Aeomatic Opening Powder. Take the best Turkey rhubarb, cinnamon, and fine sugar, each 2 drachms. Let the ingredients be poimded, and afterwards mixed well together. When flatulency is accompanied with costive- ness a tea-spoonful of this powder may be taken once or twice a day, according to circumstances. Astringent Powder. Take of alum and Japan earth, each 2 drachms. Pound them together, and divide the whole into ten or twelve doses. In immoderate female and other he- morrhages one of these powders may be taken every hour, or every half-hour if the discharge be violent. Carminative Powder. Take of coriander seed i oz.; ginger, 1 drachm; nutmegs, ^ drachm ; fine sugar, H drachm. Reduce them into powder for twelve doses. This powder is employed for expelling flatulencies arising from indigestion, particularly those to which hysteric and hypochondriac persons are so liable. It may likewise be given in small quantities to children in their food when troubled with gripes. Diuretic Powder. Take of gum arable 4 ozs.; purified nitre, 1 oz. Pound them together, and divide the whole into twenty-four doses. Powder of Bole. Take of bole armeniac, or French bole, 2 ozs.; cinnamon, ] oz.; tor- mentil root and gum arable, of each 6 drachms; long pepper, 1 drachm. Let all these ingre- dients be reduced into a powder. This warm, glutinous, astringent powder is given in fluxes, and other disorders where medicines of that class are necessary, in the dose of 1 scruple or ■| drachm. If 1 drachm of opium be added it will make the powder of bole with opium, which is a medicine of considerable efficacy. It may be taken in the same quantity as tl^e forrner, but not above twice or thrice a day. Powder for the Tape Worm. Early in the morning the patient is to take in any liquid 3 or 3 drachms, according to his age and consti- tution, of the root of the male fern reduced into a fine powder. About two hours afterwards he is to take of calomel and resin of scammony, each 10 grains ; gum gamboge, 6 grains. These ingredients must be finely powdered, and given in a little syrup, honey, treacle, or anything that is most agreeable to the patient. He is then to walk geijtly about, now and thpn drinking a dish of weak green tea, till the worm is passed. If the powder of the fern produces nausea or sickness jt may be removed by sucking the juice of an orange or lemon. This medicine, which had beer; long kept a secret abroad for the cure of the tape worm, was purchased by the French king, Louis XVI., and made public for the benefit of mankind. The dose here prescribed is sufficient for the strongest patient; it must, therefore, be reduced according to the age and constitution. Saline Laxative Powder, Take of soluble tartar and cream of tartar, each 1 drachm ; pu- rified nitre, ^ drachm. Make them into a powder. In fevers, and other inflammatory disorders where it is necessary to keep the body gently open, one of these cooling laxative powders may be taken in a little gruel, and repeate'd occasionally. Steel Powder. Take filings of steel and loaf sugar, of each 2 ozs.; ginger, 2 drachms. Pound them together. In female obstructions, and other cases where steel is proper, a tea- spoonful of this powder may be taken twice a day, and washed down with a little wine and water. Sudorific Powder, Take purified nitre and vitriolated tartar, of each | oz.; opium and ipecacuanha, of each 1 drachm. Mix the in- gredients, and reduce them to a fine powder. This is generally known by the name of Dover's powder. It is a powerful sudorific. In obsti- nate rheumatisms, and other cases where it is necessary to excite a copious sweat, this powder may be administered in the dose of 1 scruple or •J- drachm. Some patients will require 2 scruples. It ought to be accompanied with the plentiful use of some warm diluting liquor. Worm Powder, Take of tin reduced into a fine powder, 1 oz.; ^thiops mineral, 2 drachms. Mix them well together, and divide the whole into six doses. One of these powders may be taken in a little syrup, honey, or treacle, twice a day. After they have been all used the following anthelmintic purge may be proper :— Take powdered rhubarb, 1 scruple; scammony and calomel, of each 5 grains. Bub them to- gether in a mortaj" for one dose. For children, however, these doses must be lessened according to their age. If the powder of tin be given alone its dose may be considerably increased. Given to the amount of 2 ozs. in three days, it proves an egregious anthelmintic. Let the patient be purged both before taking the powder and afterwards. POX, COW. See Cow Pox. pox, SMALL. Sym.ptoms. This disease is so generally known that a minute description of it is unnecessary. Children commonly look a little dull, and seem listless and drowsy for a few days before the more violent symptoms of the small pox appear. They are likewise more inclined to drink than usual, have little appetite for solid food, complain of weariness, and upon