MAT [ 184 ] MAR duced by a tree related to the common ash. The manna ash [Oriius Europaus) is a native of Italy and Sicily. In the warmest season of the year, from the middle of June to the end of Jul3% a clear juice exudes from the stem and branches of these trees [Manna di s2)ontana), which, when naturally concreted on the plants, and scraped off, is called manna in the tear ; but the manna of commerce is got only from incisions [Manna forzatella). If allowed to exude on straws, or chips of wood fastened to the tree, it is called cannalated or flaky manna. The heat of the sun coagulates the frothy juice which exudes, and gives it the form of stalactites. The com- mon or fat manna exudes in September and October, dries more slowly and in larger masses, and is of a redder colour. The best manna is in oblong, light, friable pieces or flakes, of a ^\•hitish or pale yellow colour, and somewhat transparent, having often a fibrous crystallisa- tion internally. It melts easily on the tongue, and has a sweet, somewhat sharp taste, not nauseous or unpleasant, and a very weak, not nauseous smell. The inferior kinds are moist, unctuous, and dark coloured. Manna is a mild, agreeable laxative, and may be given with safety to children and pregnant women: nevertheless, in some particular con- stitutions it acts very unpleasantly, producing flatulency and distention of the viscera: these inconveniences may be prevented by the addi- tion of any grateful ^varm aromatic. Manna operates so weakly as not to produce the full effect of a cathartic unless taken in large doses, and hence it is rarely given by itself with this intention. It may be commodiously dissolved in the purging mineral waters, or joined with the cathartic salts, senna, rhubarb, or the like. MAPLE. The wood of this species is much used by turners, being far superior to that of the beech. When it abounds with knots it is greatly esteemed by joiners for the purpose of inlaying. On account of its lightness maple wood is also frequently em- ployed for musical instruments. Being re- markably white it was formerly converted into tables and other articles of domestic furniture, particularly cups, which last may be turned so thin as to transmit light; but at present this tree is principally planted for hedges and for underwood, because it is of quick growth and aff'ords excellent fuel. A decoction of the bark of the common maple imparts to wool, prepared in a solution of bis- muth, a reddish brown colour similar to that obtained from woad. To imitate maple wood the article must be of deal. The staiu is merely aquafortis, washed on with a brush or a piece of rag fixed to the point of a stick. As soon as it has been hastily brushed over hold the article to the fire : it will became yellow in a few minutes. It is then to be brushed over with copal varnish, and left to dry in the sun or open ah-. Two or three coats completely fill the pores of the wood. Then rub it gently with a bit of flat pumice-stone, and give it another coat, perhaps two, letting it be completely dry be- tween each; then polish again very gently, and finish off with flour and a soft rag. It is as good as French polish, and may be washed at any time. MARASCHINO (]). Take 161bs. offine sharp cherries, stone, and take off the stalks; put them into five quarts of brandy, covered closely, to infuse for three days, and then distil the infusion. Distil also 1 lb. of cheiTy leaves in six quarts of filtered river water, from which yoa will obtain about a gallon ; dissolve in this 4 J lbs. of fine sugar, add it to the liqueur, with two pints and a half of kirscliwasser, 1 ^ oz. of spmts of rose, the same of orange flowers, and 3 drachms of spirits of jasmine ; mix all of these together, run through a jelly bag, and bottle it. Cork the bottles well. MARASCHINO (2). Infuse ^ lb. of the kernels of cherries, bruised, for four days in half a gallon of spirits of wine; distil this until reduced to rather less than the above quantity remains, and then add twelve drops of neroli, two quarts more of spirit, and two quarts of distilled water. This may be improved by add- ing half a pint of spirits of wine, in which 2 ozs. of the bfuised kernels of cherries have been infused for a fortnight. Much of this com- pound is made in France; but that manufactured in Switzerland is considered the best. It is a dangerous liquid, containing much of the prin- ciple of prussic acid, and should only be taken in small quantities diluted with water, when it is considered a good stomachjc. MARASCHINO, CONSERVE OF. Pound and sift some of the best lump suggir, and mix it in a china basin with spirit of maraschino until it is of the consistence of pastille paste ; then put it into a skillet over the fire, and heat it gently, stirring it constai;tly, but without let- ting it boil, till very liquid, when it may be poured into funnel-shaped tin moulds- Put these moulds on iron plates, and dry the conserve in a stove. MARASCHINO ICE CREAM. Take two quarts of cream, twelve eggs, 1 lb. of double- refined sugar, and three glasses of true maras- clrino; put the cream on the fire to boil, and in the meantime whisk the whites of the eggs to a firm snow; then pour in eight yolks, and tho sugar pounded and sifted; stir them together