GRA C 2 ] GEA of an infiieion of emollient herbs, or bladders filled with warm water, should be immediately and constantly applied over the parts; also, emollient and anodyne clysters may he fre- quently injected until the irritation be re- moved :—Take compound decoction of mallows, or of linseed infusion, l2ozs.; olive oil, ^oz.; thicture of opium, CO drops. Make a clyster. A grain of opium may also be taken every six hours. In endeavouring to correct the secretion of urine in gravelly complaints, which is an object of primary importance, the patient should drink copiously of aqueous fluids which are known to possess diuretic virtues. Spring or soft water is preferable to pump water. Hence the Seltzer and Buxton waters have not unfrequently been used with much benefit in diseases of the urinary organs , and many have been relieved by using the garden leek prepared as follows:—Take a handful of the roots or fibrous parts of the leek, with a few sprigs of fennel, and boil them in two quarts of water over a gentle fire until one-half be evaporated; pour off and strain the remainder, of which the patient may drink a pint a day. GRAVIES AND SAUCES, INGRE- I),IENTS FOR. Browning for made dishes: Put into a saucepan 1 lb. of good brown sugar, stir it constantly over a slow fire, and boil it till it is as thick as treacle, and resembles it in colour; take the pan off the fire, stir it for a minute or two, and pour in very slowly a quart of boiling water, stirring constantly; put it again on the fire, and boil it a little ; pour it into a bowl, and when cold bottle it. This browning will keep good for a year, and very little of it serves for colouring soups, gravies, or sauces. To clarify butter. Put the butter, cut into slices, into a nicely cleaned brass pan, and stir it gently till dissolved. When it boils draw the pan to the side of the fire, skim it, and let it boil gently a second time, and if any scum again rises take it off; let it settle for two or three minutes, and strain it gently through a sieve which has a piece of muslin laid in it. Fresh beef suet, picked free from skin and sinews, is dissolved in the same manner. It is then strained through muslin into small jars, and when cold covered with bladder; or it may be strained into cold water, and the cake when cold wiped dry, folded in white paper, and kept in a linen bag. Beef suet will keep fresh for some time if finely chopped, dredged with flour, and kept in white bags in a cool place. Beef and mutton drippings are clarified exactly in the manner butter is done, and each kept in a separate jar. To melt hog's lard put it into ajar placed in a pot of water or water bath, strain it into clean bladders or small jars, and cover them with paper. Thus prepared it will keep a good length of time, and is the best thing for frying fish in. To fry parsley wash it, pick it clean, and put it into fresh cold water; take it out, and then throw it into boiling lard or dripping, when it will instantly become crisp. It is then taken out with a slice. GRAVIES AND SAUCES, OBSERVA- TIONS ON. It is of as much importance that the cook should kno^v how to make a boat of good gravy for poultry, ^c, as it is that it should be sent up of the proper complexion and nicely frothed. We shall endeavour to introduce to her all the materials that give flavour in sauce, which is the essence of soup, and intended to contain more relish in a tea- spoonful than the former does in a table-spoonful. VVe hope to deserve as much praise from the economist as we do from the bon vivant, as we have taken great pains to introduce to him the methods of making substitutes for those ingi-e- dients which are always expensive, and often not to be had at all. Many of these cheap articles are as savoury and as salutary as the dearer ones, and those who have lai-ge families and limited incomes will no doubt be glad to avail themselves of them. A great deal of the elegance of cookery depends upon the accompaniments to each disla being appropriate and well adapted to it. It will be to very little purpose that we have taken so much pains to teach how to manage roasts and boils if a cook cannot, or will not, make the several sauces that are usually sent up with them. We have, therefore, endeavom-ed to give the plainest directions how to produce, with the least trouble and expense possible, all the various compositions the English kitchen affords, and hope to present such a wholesome and palatable vai'iety as will suit all tastes and all pockets, so that the cook may give satisfac- tion in all families. Let your sauces each display a decided character. Send up j'^our plain sauces (oyster, lobster, &c.) as pure as possible. They should only taste of the materials from which they take their name. The imagination of most cooks is so incessantly on the hunt for a relish, that they seem to think they cannot make sauce sufficiently savoury without putting into it everything that ever was eaten, and supposing eveiy addition made must be an improvement, they frequently over- power the natural flavour of iheix plain sauces by overloading them with salt, spices, &c.; but remember these will be deteriorated by any addition save only just salt enough to awaken the palate.