LAR LAR [ 125 1 and fat bacon pounded to a paste; make a seasoning of sweet herbs, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and a little mace; strew some of this upon the suet and bacon ; then lay in the larks regularly, and wherever there is a hollow among them put in a piece of pounded bacon. Dust some more of the seasoning over the larks; then lay on some thin slices of fresh butter; over these spread a covering of fine fat bacon in very thin slices, and then put on the top crust; rub it over with eggs, and send it to the oven to be done under a cover. When it comes from the oven take off the upper crust; take out the bacon, skim off the fat, and pour in some' very rich cullis of veal and ham. See that the larks lie regularly in it, and send it up hot. LARKS. These delicate little birds are in high season in November. When they are thoi'oughly picked, gutted, and cleaned, truss them, do them over mth yolk of egg, then roll them in bread crumbs, spit them on a lark spit, and fasten that on to a larger spit. Ten or fifteen minutes will be sufficient time to I'oast them before a quick fire Whilst they are roasting baste them with frest butter, and sprinkle them with bread crumbs till they are well covered with them; fiy some grated bread in butter, and set it to drain before the fire that it may harden. Serve with crumbs in the dish under the larks, and garnish with slices of lemon. LARKS : To Bake in Papers. Pick halx a dozen larks, and lay them ready; cut to pieces a couple of veal sweetbreads and four large fresh mushrooms ; put these into a stewpau, with some sweet herbs, a bunch of parsley, some onions chopped, pepper and salt, ana a piece of butter; toss all up together, put in the larks, toss them up with the rest, and then set them off the fire. Prepare a case of paper suitable to the size of the dish and the quantity of the ingredients'; lay over the bottom of this some forcemeat, upon this place the larks evenly and carefully, and lay over some thin slices of bacon to cover them perfectly. Send them to the oven under the cover of a baking pan, and let them bake half an hour; then take them out, remove the fat, and when it is dished up pour over it a little very rich gravy; then squeeze in a quarter of a lemon, and send it up hot, garnished with lemon. LARKS: To Roast. Roast them, larded and covered with bacon ; or you may only cover one half with bacon, and lard the other. Leave in the trails, and put under them roasted bread to receive what falls. For a side dish they may be served in a variety of ways. LARKS EN CAiSSES. Pick, bone, and stuff your larks; have ready some small paper cases, dip them in warm oil, form the larks into balls, and put one, with a little farce under- neath, into each case. Set them on a baking tin covered with a buttered paper, to prevent them drying whilst baking. When done place them in a dish, drain off all the fat, squeeze in lemon juice, and pour a little Espagnole over them. LARKS EN CHIPOLATA. Have ready some roasted chestnuts, mushrooms, sausages, and slices of streaked bacon ; have a little but- ter in a saucepan, put in the bacon, and when they have had a few turns put in the sausages. As soon as they are done put in eight or ten larks ; when they are pretty firm take all three articles out, pour away half the butter, and put in the mushrooms; give them a few boils, and then stir in a spoonful of flour; pour over them a glass of white wine, half a glass of water, a little pepper, and a very small quantity of salt; give them a few boils, and then replace the bacon, sausages, and larks, with the chestnuts. These must only boil once, then take them out, and serve them. LARKS A LA GEINOISE. Toss up a few dry mushrooms in a little lard, and moisten them' with stock, veal gravy, and a glass of cham- pagne. Simmer your larks in this for an hour, and then let them cool. Grate a little Par- mesan cheese in a dish that will bear fire, mix a small quantity of grated bread with it, and place your larks on this layer of cheese ; pour over them the sauce they were dressed in, strew grated cheese and bread on them, and set them in a gentle stove for a quarter of an hour. LARKS AU GRATIN. Pick and boiie a dozen and a half of fat larks, season them with salt and pepper, and stuff them with a farce. Put some of the farce in a dish, lay the larks on it, with fried bread between each; lay slices of bacon over the whole, and put it in the oven for twenty minutes ; then drain off the fat, and serve with a well-seasoned Espagnole. LARKS IN JELLY. Put several larks into the jelly in what manner you think best, taking care that they lie separately. You may do any small birds you please in this manner. LARKS IN A MINUTE. Put some but- ter, slices of streaked bacon, and a few sausages into a stewpan. When quite hot put in eight or ten larks, take them out again" as soon as they are firm, pour away half the butter, and put into the pan a few mushrooms ; give them a boil up, and then add a little flour, a glass of white wine, a little watei', and vei-y small quantities of pepper and salt. In a few minutes put the larks in again, give the whole one boil, and then serve them. LARKS, RAGOtJT OF (1). Fry your larks with an onion stuck with cloves, and a few