TUll [ 505 ] TULi Canada, where it originally came from, and M'here the ground for many months in the year is covered with snow. In that country it is larger and more beautiful than in Europe. It is, however, one of the most valuable appendages to a farmyard ; for when reared it is not only hardy, but fed at little expense. Some turkeys, especially those of Norfolk, which are the best in the kingdom, weigh from 20 lbs. to 30 lbs. They are in season from December to the end of February. In choosing a cock turkey observe that the spurs are short, and the legs black, in which case he is young ; but if the spurs are long, and the legs pale and rough, he is old. If the bird has been long killed the eyes will be sunk, and the feet very dry; but if fresh the one will be limber, and the other lively. In examining the hen the same signs must be attended to, and if she be with egg she will have an open vent; but if not, a close and hard one. The newness or staleness of turkey poults will be determined in the same way, and so there can be no mistake as to age. TURKEY: To Sousr. Bone a good-sized turkey, and tie it up like a sturgeon ; put into a large saucepan tivo quarts of vinegar, one quart of water, and some salt; make it boil, put in the turkey, and let it boil till tender; then take the saucepan from the fire, and as soon as it is cold put the whole into a pan, and let it stand three weeks. Serve it with elder vinegar, and garnish with fennel. TURKEY : To Stew. Take a saucepan suf- ficiently large to hold the turkey conveniently, lay four skewers across the bottom of the sauce- pan, and put in the turkey upon these ; pour in a quart of good veal gravy, add a bunch of celery cut into small pieces, and some beaten mace ; let them stew as slowly as possible till the gravy is more than half consumed, and then put in a large piece of butter rolled in flour. When it has melted put in a glass of Madeira or other white wine, and if there is not a sufficient quantity of sauce add a little strong veal gravy thickened with butter. When it is tender take it up, dish it, and pour the sauce over, to Avhich may be added, if you think proper, pickled mushrooms or oysters. TURKEY: To Truss. After the bird is well picked singe it with white paper, and wipe it thoroughly with a coarse cloth ; then break the leg bone close below the knee, and having suspended the turkey by a hook, draw out the strings from the thighs ; cut off the neck close to the back, but leave enough of the crop skin to turn over the back. Next take out the crop, and with your middle finger loosen the liver and gut at the throat end; then cut off the vent, and take out the gut. With a sharp crooked iron draw out the gizzard and liver, but tako special care not to break the gall, otherwise the flesh will contract an ill flavour. This is a general caution to be observed in all fowls. Having cleared the inside, wipe it thoroughly with a wet cloth; then cut the breast-bone through on each side close to the back, and draw the legs up to the crop. After this lay a cloth on the breast, and beat the thigh- bone down flat with a rolling-pin. If the turkey is to be boiled cut off the legs ; then put your middle finger into the inside, raise the skin of the legs, and place them under the apron ; run a skewer through the joint of the wing and the middle joint of the leg, quite into the leg and wing of the opposite side ; place the gizzard and liver, after taking out the gall and offensive matter, within the pinions ; then turn the small end of each pinipn on the back, and tie a pack- thread over the ends of the legs to keep them fast. If the turkey is to be roasted pass a skewer into the joint of the wing, bring the legs close up, and pass the skewer through the middle of the leg and body. On the opposite side insert another skewer into the small part of the leg, put it close on the outside of the sidesman, pass- ing the skewers quite through, and do the same on the other side ; place the liver and gizzards between the pinions, and turn the point of these on the back as before directed. After this pass another skewer close above the pinions through the body of the turkey. Poults are to be trussed in the same manner. After drawing them in the usual way, draw the head from the neck and body, but without removing the skin ; pass a skewer through the joint of the pinion, and bring the legs close up; run the • skewer through the middle of the leg and body, and do the same on the other side; cut off the under part of the bill, twist the skin of the neck round, and put the head on the point of the skewer as if it were looking forward; put another skewer in the sidesman, and place the legs between that and the apron, one on each side; pass the skewer through both, and cut off the claws.' It is a common practice to lard turkey poults on the breast. The liver and gizzard may be used as before directed. TURKEY, ATELET OF. Take the breast of a cold roasted turkey, cut it into thin slices about an inch square, cut some truffles and boiled streaked bacon in the same manner, split some large champignons also; put the above into an atelet sauce. When they have thoroughly imbibed it put them alternately on six silver skewers, dip them into beaten eggs, cover them with bread crumbs, egg and bread them a second time, and then fry them. TURKEY, BLANQUETTE OF. Cut the white meat from a cold roasted turkey, mince it