[ 305 ] PAS PAS Hence the tendency to anger is particularly- visible in individuals troubled with hysterics and hypochondriasis, as well as in debilitated and disappointed men of letters. Persons of a hot and dry temperament, of strong black hair, and great muscular strength, are likewise much subject to fits of anger. A moderate degree of this passion is frequently of advantage to phlegmatic, gouty, and hypochon- driac individuals, as it excites the nerves to action; but, if too violent and raging, it dissi- pates the more volatile part of the fluids, and is productive of the most hurtful consequences. In the epileptic, scorbutic, choleric, and such as have open wounds, it causes fever, spitting of blood, convulsions, inflammations, throbbing pains in the side, jaundice, apoplexy, &c. No fluid is more affected by anger than the bile, which, by its violent influx into the duo- denum, produces a fixed spasmodic pain in the region of the navel, flatulency, vomiting, a bitter taste in the mouth, uneasiness and pressure about the pit of the stomach, and at length either obstructions or diarrhoea. Wine or other heating liquors drunk immediately after a fit of anger, and strong exercise or labour, are attended vnth consequences still more per- nicious, as are also emetics, laxatives, and blood-letting. When sadness or fear has so overpowered the heart and the understanding that all hopes of averting the apprehended evils are extinguished, the mind sinks into despair. We then see no comfort in'futurity, and our ideas of approaching miseiy become so intolerable that we think our- selves incapable to sustain it, and seek a remedy in death. There are attacks of despair and an inclination to suicide, in which people are, upon any unforeseen event, suddenly deprived of their understanding, and reduced to temporary in- sanity. This precipitate species of despair more nearly resembles terror. Others are solitary and reserved, continually reflecting on their misfor- tunes, till at length all their hopes and resolu- tion fail. Their despair, consequently, is more nearly allied to melancholy than to any other passion. A sudden fit of despair is owing to very irritable muscular fibres, which are quickly excited to the most irregular motions, and from which arises confusion in the senses and the imagination. In profoundly thoughtful and melancholy individuals the solid parts are weak- ened ; the fluids become thick, heavy, and stag- nating ; and this weakness of the solids gives them a sensation of peculiar debility. They are dispirited and dejected; their stagnating, or, at best, slowly circulating fluids, occasion in them a sense of anxiety and timidity, whence gloomy representations are but too easily impressed on VOL. II. their mind. This is very apt to be the case with persons who eat more animal than vegetable food, which produces very rich and substantial blood. PASSY WATER. To imitate this chaly- beate, dissolve in a pint of soda water 2 grains of sulphate of iron, 3 grains of common salt, 4 grains of carbonate of soda, and 2 grains of chloride of magnesium. PASTE: To Glaze in Ice. The fine yellow glaze appropriate to meat pies is given with beaten yolk of egg, which should be laid on with a paste brush or a small bunch of feathers : if a lighter colour be wished for, whisk the whole of the egg together, or mix a little milk with the yolk. The best mode of icing fruit tarts before they are sent to the oven is to moisten the paste with cold water, to sift sugar thickly upon it, and to press it lightly on with the hand; but when a whiter icing is preferred the pastry must be drawn from the oven when nearly baked| and brushed with white of egg whisked to a froth ; then, when covered with the sifted sugar, sprinkled with a few drops of water before it is put in again. This glazing answers also very well, though it takes a slight colour, if used before the pastry is baked. PASTE, BEEF-DRIPPING. Rub i lb. of clarified dripping into 1 lb. of flour, work it into a stiff paste with water, and roll it twice or thrice. This crust is best eaten hot. PASTE BEIGNET BATTER. Put some flour or ground or whole rice into just as much water as will swell it; put it under the grate or into the oven, and when it is sufficiently cooked beat it well in a mortar, adding butter and eggs in proportion to the paste. After having been finished in this manner, which is beignet paste, thin it to a batter with egg and milk; pour it over a chicken, or any nice dish of meat or fish, for a batter pastry, and bake it. Pastes may be made of any proportion of ingredients. Standing paste should be made with boil- ing water, as it gives more tenacity to the paste. PASTE, COLOURED. Mix any of the foregoing pastes with chocolate, clove, cin- namon, or pistachio paste. The clove may be coloured with beet or cochineal; the cinnamon with cochineal and saffron; and the pistachio with spinach greening, orange, saffron, cochi- neal, and lemon saffron. These pastes are beau- tiful filled with cream. If they are left open without covers they ought to have such a border as will show the colour; or if filled with whipped cream, and the covers very open, it looks well oozing through them. The colour ought to be very delicate. The cream must not be put in till they are all served.