[ 423 ] SOU SCO and hang it out to dry. When nearly dry lay the nap of the cloth the right way with a hrush, and when quite dry pour a small drop of olive oil on the hand, and pass it over the brush, with which strike the cloth : if there he not too much oil used the cloth will appear new. Qrey, drab, fawn, maroon, and all other coloured woollens are cleaned by forming yellow soap into a ball, and rubbing all the dirty spots of the cloth with it; let it dry a little, dip the brush in warm water, and rub off the soap. If the cloth be not quite clean by this process proceed as before, and use the water a little hotter: rinse several times and diy. In scouring party-coloured woollens, carpets, dc, they are drawn over a board, and according to the colours either gall or soap must be used, or sometimes both. The spots should be soaped as mentioned in the preceding article, and then scrubbed with a brush dipped in boiling water. If the carpet, &c., should be very dirty, a solu- tion of yellow soap, as mentioned for undyed woollens, must be made, and the article im- mersed in it and beaten with the doll. In the last rinsing it may be advisable to put a small quantity of oil to brighten the colours, especially when red and green are in it. SCOURING DROPS. Take a wine-glassful of the rectified oil of turpentine, and half a tea- ispoonful or more of essential oil of lemons ; mix them well, and preserve in a well-stopped phial. If you have not oil of lemons, oil of cloves, of cinnamon, or of peppermint will do. The scouring drops thus prepared are of a plea- sant odour, and will take out of silk, woollen, linen, or cotton stuffs, all sorts of grease spots, oil, paint, pitch, tar, fruit stains, &c., by rubbing a little on the stain with a piece of silk or ■woollen cloth. A bit of silk velvet is the best rubber for silks. The drops do not affect the colour of the stuffs. SCROFULA. See King's Evil. SCUBAC. Infuse 2 ozs. of saffron, the zests of four lemons, those of as many oranges, and 1 drachm of mace in three gallons of brandy for a week, keeping the vessel closely covered: at the end of that time distil. Dissolve 10^ lbs. of sugar in ten gallons and a half of water, stir it into the liquor, and then filter it. The liquor made as above will be very wliite and clear. If, however, you wish it of a yellow tinge, after the sugar is dissolved, and the syrup is cold, add tincture of saffron to it, the quantity regulated by the degree of colour you wish. SCURF. See D.\ndriff. SCURVY [Scorbutus). The scurvy is occa- sioned by cold moist air, by the long use of salted or smoke-dried provisions, or any kind of food that is hard of digestion, and affords little nourishment. It may also proceed from the suppression of customary evacuations, as the menses, the hemorrhoidal flux, &c. It is some- times owing to an hereditary taint, in which case a very small cause will excite the latent disorder. Grief, fear, and other depressing passions have a great tendency both to excite and aggravate this disease. The same observa- tion holds with regard to neglect of cleanliness, bad clothing, the want of proper exercise, con- fined air, unwholesome food, or any disease which greatly weakens the body or vitiates the humours. This disease may be known by unusual weariness, heaviness, and difficulty of breathing, especially after motion; rottenness of the gums, which are apt to bleed on the slightest touch; a stinking breath; frequent bleedings at the nose; crackling of the joints; difficulty of walking; sometimes a swelling, and sometimes a falling away of the legs, on which there are livid, yellow, or violet-coloured spots ; and the face is generally of a pale or leaden colour. As the disease advances other symptoms come on, as rottenness of the teeth, hemorrhages, or dis- charges of blood from different parts of the body, foul obstinate ulcers, pains in various parts, especially about the breast, dry scaly eruptions all over the body, &c. At last a wasting or hectic fever comes on, and the miserable patient is often carried off by a dysentery, a diarrhoea, a dropsy, the palsy, fainting fits, or a mortification of some of the bowels. We know no way of curing this disease but by pursuing a plan directly opposite to that which brings it on. It proceeds from a vitiated state of the humours, occasioned by errors in diet, air, or exercise; and this cannot be re- moved but by a proper attention to these im- portant articles. If the patient has been obliged to breathe a cold, damp, or confined air, he should be re- moved as soon as possible to a dry, open, and moderately warm one. If there is reason to believe that the disease proceeds from a seden- tary life or depressing passions, as grief, fear, &c., the patient must take daily as much exer- cise in the open air as he can bear, and his mind should be diverted by cheerful company and other amusements. Nothing has a greater tendency either to prevent or remove this disease than constant cheerfulness and good humour. But this, alas! is seldom the lot of persons afHicted with the scurvy: they are generally surly, peevish, and morose. When the scurvy has been brought on by a long use of salted provisions the proper medi- cine is a diet consisting chiefly of fresh vege- tables, as oranges, apples, lemons, limes,