INS INV [ 77 j precipitate the indigo. If the solution be in- tended merely for colouring or writing on paper it will be sufficient to add pulverised chalk in small portions till it ceases to effervesce, because a large quantity of this powder at a time would cause the liquid to rise above the brim of the vessel. It is easy to ascertain the point of saturation; for, when the powder of chalk scattered on the surface no longer produces any babbles, the solution should be suffered to stand for twenty-four hours, then filtered through blot- ting paper, and preserved in bottles. If, how- ever, this preparation be designed for dyeing silk, such as stockings, &c., it will be preferable to neutralise the vitriolic acid by the addition of aluminous earth instead of chalk, as the former renders the colour more durable; and, if the solu- tion is to be used for painting on silk, it ought to be previously mixed with gum tragacanth. Geeen Ink. Take a glass retort which will contain about a quart, pour into it a pint of dis- tilled vinegar, place it over a sand heat, and when it begins to boil introduce into the liquid small portions of powdered verdigris till a saturated solution is obtained, or till no more colouring matter can be dissolved. In order to keep the latter suspended, and prevent the foi-mation of crystals, it will be requisite to add about the sixth part of gum arabic in proportion to the verdigris. Red Ink. Boil 2 ozs. of Brazil wood in a pint of water for a quarter of an hour, adding a requisite quantity of gum, and about half as much alum. Or, take 8 ozs. of Brazil wood, 4 ozs. of roche alum, and 1 quart of distilled vinegar ; boil them for a quarter of an hour or more, strain, and add 2 ozs. of gum arabic. Yellow Ink. Boil 8 ozs. of French berries with i oz. of alum in a quart of water, strain, and then dissolve in the liquid 1 oz of gum arabic. INSANITY, MORAL. See Idiotcy INTESTINES. See Bowels. INVALIDS. {See Nurse.) We shall con- fine our notes here to the diet of an invalid. Quality of food. Animal food is more digesti- ble, but at the same time more stimulant and less flatulent, than vegetable diet A dyspeptic invalid may be restricted to meat and bread with advantage until his digestive powers have gained EufBcient energy to enable him to convert vege- table matter into healthy chyle, after which a due mixture of both species of aliment will be essential. The wholesome quality of food depends as much, or even more, upon its mechanical con- dition than upon its chemical composition ; and, as this is influenced by various circumstances under our own control, we may render food naturally indigestible of easy digestion. The digestibility of any species of aliment, as well as its nutritive qualities, is influenced by the different modes of cookery. The addition of condiments is also capable of producing the same effects. Quantity of food. This must in every case be regulated by the feelings of the patient: let him eat slowly, masticate thoroughly, and on tha first feeling of satiety dismiss his plate, and he will not have occasion for any artificial standard of weight and measure. But he must, in such a case, restrict himself to one dish : an indul- gence in variety provokes an artificial appetite, which he may not readily distinguish from that natural feeling which is the only true indication. Periods best adapted for meals. In every situation of life we too frequently pass un- heeded objects of real importance, in an over- anxiety to pursue others of more apparent, but of far less intrinsic value. So is it with the dys- peptic invalid in search of health. " What shall I eat ? Is this or that species of food digestible ? " are the constant queries which he addresses to his physician. He will religiously abstain from whatever medical opinion, or even popular prejudice, has decried as unwholesome, and yet the period at which he takes his meal is a matter of comparative indifference with him. Although he will refuse to taste a dish that contains an atom of vinegar with as much per- tinacity as if it held arsenic in solution, he will allow the most trifling engagement to postpone his dinner for an hour. " So important and serious an error," says Dr. Paris, " do I consider such irregularities, that I have fi'equently said to a patient labouring under indigestion, ' I will waive all my objections to the quality and quan- tity of your food if I were sure that such a sacrifice of opinion would insure regularity in the periods of your meals.' " The principal solid meal should be taken m the middle of the day, four hours after which a liquid meal should be indulged in. The diges- tion of one meal should be always completed before fresh labour is imposed upon the stomach. The intervals at which food is to be taken must be regulated by the digestive powers of the indi- vidual, and the rapidity with which they are per- formed. The patient should never take his meal in a state of fatigue. Exercise should always be taken three or four hours after dinner. INVALIDS, COOKERY FOR. It cannot fail to strike every one who has lived at all amongst the lower classes that their mode of attendance on those who are ill is very deficient, both in comfort and sense. How often a person burning with fever is seen shut up in a close room, care apparently being taken that not a breath of fresh air creeps in; and women just recovering from a confinement are given gruel