VE A L 530 ] VE A a little of the gravy, and then more eggs, with Bmall bits of heet-root, green pickles, and the red part of a carrot cut to fancy: add more meat seasoning and all the gravy. When the shape is full put it into the oven for twenty minutes, and when quite cold tura it out. If rightly done it will have a glazed appearance, and the variety of colours look well by candle- light. VEAL, POTTED. Cut a small fillet into three or four pieces, and season them with pepper, salt, and a little mace ; put the veal into a pot, with ^ lb. of butter, tie a paper over it, and set it in a hot oven to bake three hours. When taken out cut off the outside ; pound the meat in a mortar with the fat of the gravy till it is the thickness of paste; then pack it closely in pots, press it down hard, and when cold pour clarified butter over it. VEAL RAGOUT. Take a breast of veal, cut it into pieces, put them in a stewpan over a fire to brown, tiicn pour as much stock as will cover them, add an onion stuck with cloves, salt, black pepper (whole), and a bundle of sweet herbs, and stew till done ; then thicken some gravy, add a little catsup, and serve over the veal. VEAL, ROLLED. Bone the thin end of a breast of veal, strew over it a good deal of parsley, pepper, and salt, to make it savoury, a little nutmeg, grated lemon-peel, and some sweet herbs ; roll it tightly, sew it up, put it into a small stewpan with the bones, and just sufficient water to cover it, a bit of lemon-peel, an onion, and let it boil until tender : in cold weather it will keep good for a week. It may be served cold, but it is best cut in slices, dipped in egg. and then in bread crumbs, and fried. Thicken some of the liquor with a little flour, add pickled mushrooms, a little cream, catsup, a few morels, pepper, and salt; pour the sauce in a dish, and lay in the veal. VEAL SAUSAGES. Take equal quantities of lean veal and fat bacon, a handful of sage, and a few anchovies; beat all in a mortar, and season well with pepper and salt. When wanted for use roll and fry it, and serve either with fried sippets, or on stewed vegetables or white collops. VEAL SEMELLES. Cut part of a fillet of veal into slices an inch thick, season them with salt and pepper, and give them a few turns in a little butter with a bay leaf. Lay at the bottom of a deep dish a slice of bacon, and on it one of the slices of veal, and continue to lay them in alternately untiHhe whole are used; then add a glass of water and some bay leaves, close the saucepan tightly, first putting a sheet of paper over the meat, and stew it on hot ashes for four or five hours. Take care to keep the fire up to the same point all the time. VEAL, SHOULDER OF (en Galantine). Take a handsomely cut shoulder of veal, and bone it; cut about 1 lb. of meat from the thickest part, mince it together with an equal quantity of bacon, mix it with the yolks of four eggs, shred parsley, salt, and spices, and spread the farce about an inch thick over the whole joint; lay on it some lardons, truffles, tongue d Vecarlate, cari'ots, and an omelet, coloured green with spinach essence, all cut in lardons; cover these with another layer of farce, place more of the lardons, &c., and then a third layer of fai'ce; roll up the shoulder, carefully securing the ends, lay rashers of bacon round it, wrap it in a cloth, and tie it tightly. Line a braising-pan witli slices of bacon, put in the galantine, with two calves' feet, the bone of the shoulder, six carrots, eight or ten onions, one stuck with four cloves, four bay leaves, a little thyme, a large bunch of parsley and scallions, and a large quantity of stock; cover the pan, set it on the fire, and leave it for three hours, by which time the shoulder will be sufficiently done ; take it out, pressing it that all the gravy may run out, and then let it cool. Break two eggs into a stewpan, beat them well, strain the liquor, and pour it to them, stirring all the time that they may be thoroughly blended ; add a bay leaf, a little thyme, pai-sley, salt, pepper, and spices: set it on the fire, and when it begins to boil remove it to the side; cover the stew- pan, put hot ashes on the top, and leave it to boil slowly for an hour; then strain it gently through a fine cloth, but do not press it: when cold it will be quite a jelly. Place the galantine on a dish, trim and glaze it, and surround it with the jelly. VEAL, SHOULDER OF (Roasted). Cut off the knuckle for a stew or gravy, and stuff the shoulder with the following ingre- dients : some suet chopped fine, parsley and sweet herbs shred fine, bread crumbs, grated lemon-peel, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg. Whilst roasting flour and baste at. Veal requires to be more done than beef. VEAL STOCK. Cut a leg of veal and some lean ham into pieces, put them into a saucepan, with a quart of water, some carrots, turnips, onions, leelss, and celery; stew them till nearly done, but do not let them colour; then add a sufficient quantity of beef stock to cover the ingredients, and boil for an hour; skim off all the fat, and strain it. A little game stewed down w-ith the above will improve the flavour. Be particularly careful that it does not burn. VEAL SUET PUDDING. Slice the soft part