TUR TUR I. 511 ] for believing that it contains a portion of some fixed oil. Venice turpentine, although said in most books to be an imported article, is never sold as such in the shops. It is usually made either by melting black resin, and after removing it from the fire mixing with it gradually an equal weight of oil of turpentine, or as follows :— Take of unstrained turpentine, commonly called frankincense, 3|^lbs.; oil of turpentine, l^^pint; linseed oil, 1 pint. Melt the unstrained tur- pentine over a moderate fire, and when it is melted and removed from the fire add gradually the oil of turpentine and linseed oil previously mixed. Lastly, strain the whole whilst hot through a hair sieve. Crude, ov unstrained turpentine, is imported in casks from various countries, chiefly at the present time from America. It is this article, when hardened by age, that is called the frank- incense of the shops ; it is from this article also that oil of turpentine is distilled, and the residue of which is the common yellow resin : Mack resin is merely yellow resin deprived of more of its terebinthine matter by a still greater degree of heat. Horse turpentine is used for various purposes in the arts, and also in the preparation of some detergent ointments. Venice turpentine is also used for similar purposes. All the turpentines have a peculiar, somewhat aromatic odour, and a warm, pungent, bitterish taste. they are of different degrees of con- sistency, tenacious, more or less translucent, combine readily with fixed oils, and are inflam- mable, burning with a white flame and much black smoke, which, condensed, is the lamp- Hack of commerce. Oil of turpentine, sometimes, but improperly, called spirit of turpentine, is obtained from crude turpentine by distilling it with water in a common still. A colourless, limpid, strong, penetrating fluid comes over, having a peculiar odour, and a hot, pungent, bitterish taste; it is also extremely light, volatile, and inflammable ; it dissolves in hot alcohol, and again separates from it as the spirit cools; in all other respects it agrees with the other essential oils: the residuum left in the still is yellow resin. Oil of turpentine is used for various purposes in the arts, chiefly, however, as a medium for mixing paints. White-lead ground in this fluid forms the dead white so well known to painters. As medicines the tui-pentines and their essential oils are stimulant, cathartic, diuretic, and anthelmintic ; and externally rubefacients, as well as being sometimes usefully applied to promote the healing of many wounds. [See Basilicon and Burgundy Pitch.) The tur- pentines appear, however, to derive their virtues from their essential oil. They are sometimes given internally in gleets and gonorrhoeas, and in mucous obstructions of the urinary passages. The oil of turpentine is regarded as a useful remedy in lumbago, sciatica, &c.; it has also lately been very successfully given, in unusually large doses, for the expulsion of the tape-worm. It is also said to be useful when dropped into the ear, either alone or mixed with oil of almonds, in deafness from defect of wax; and it is an excellent addition to embrocations in acute rheumatisms, bruises, and paralysis of the extremities. As a discutient it is also applied to indolent tumours, and is said to be a useful primary application to burns. The doses of any of the turpentines, when given internally, which they rarely are, may be from 10 grains to 1 drachm, either made into pills with powdered liquorice root, or dif- fused in water by means of almonds, mucilage, or yolk of an egg: the dose of the oil may be from 10 drops to 1 drachm to produce its diuretic effect It is very remarkable that if 2 fluid drachms of this oil be given for a dose it sometimes so excites the urinary organs as to produce even bloody urine, whereas, when given in much larger doses, its chief action is on the bowels, scarcely pi'oducing any apparent effects on the urinary secretion. For the expulsion of the tape-worm, therefore, it is necessary, and perfectly safe, to give from \ fluid oz. to 2 fluid ozs., repeated every eight hours till the worm is discharged. In these large doses it is most easily taken like castor oil, floating upon some liquid vehicle. TURTLE : To Dress. The night before dressing hang up the turtle by the tail, cut off" the head, and save the blood. In the morning lay it flat, and with a sharp knife cut off the fins, and cut each into two or three pieces ; then cut out the belly shell, with as much meat as can be attached by sloping the knife out- wards, if it is to be served attached to the shell. Take out the intestines and the rest of the meat, either leaving or taking out the green fat; saw off as much of the shell as will opeir it hand- somely ; blanch tlie fins, shells, and head; put them into a sufficient-sized pot, and cover them with veal stock, which, if not already seasoned, the following must be put in :—Parsley, shallots, a little garlic, basil, savory, marjoram, and thyme ; nutmeg, cloves, and mace, in powder, of each \ oz., or according to the quantity of stock. Clean and split the intestines, scrape and pick them very well, lay them an hour in lime water or strong vinegar, put them into an earthen vessel, simmer them with some stock^ The heart, liver, and lungs are to be simmered separately: the liver must not be put in till the others are nearly ready. All the different parts must be