MAC [ ] MAC grance and flavour of mace ; but traces of aii oil heavier can also be obtained by distillation. The fixed oil of mace is obtained by expression; it is of a buttery consistence, brown colour, and highly fragrant. It is very stimulant, and much employed in India as a liniment and em- brocation in rheumatism. The aromatic property of nutmeg and mace is familiar to every one; but it may not be generally known that they also possess consider- able narcotic powers. In the quantity of two drachms nutmeg has been known to produce stupor and delirium, accompanied with oppres- sion of the chest, intense thirst, and headache ; and dangerous, if not fatal consequences are said to have followed its free use in India. Both nutmeg, mace, and their respective oils, ad- ministei'ed in moderation, are stimulant, sto- machic, and tonic. The unripe fruit is frequently preseiTed in sugar in the East, and before doing 80 it is necessary to deprive it of its acrid pro- perties by soaking it in spirits. MACfiDOINE. Take as many carrots and turnips as you think necessary, cut them into pieces, blanch and boil them in a little con- somme, and reduce them to a jelly. Take the following vegetables :—Young peas and beans, French beans cut into lozenges, cauliflowers, artichoke bottoms, cucumbers, asparagus heads, small onions, and white mushrooms ; blanch all th«se separately, and a quarter of an hour before dinner make them quite hot, and then drain them on a cloth. In the meantime reduce some AUemande, add to it the jelly of roots, keep them boiling, put in the roots and vege- tables, with a little sugar and fresh butter, and stir them together until the sauce adheres to the vegetables. The macedoine is generally used to garnish the removes of soups. MACEDOINE AU BECHAMEL. Pre- pare carrots, turnips, small onions, peas, asparagus, bread, French beans, artichoke bottoms, cauliflowers, &c., in the same manner as the mac6doine. When they are all done in their appropriate seasoping drain them very dry, put them into a saucepan, pour on them a red bechamel, and shake them all up together, that the sauce may be thoroughly incorporated with vegetables. Keep it hot, but do not let it boil. MACEDOINE OF FRUIT. The macedoine is an oraamental dish composed of transparent jelly, with various fruits inclosed in it. For this purpose it should be done as follows:—Have a donie-shaped mould six inches and a half in diameter, and four in height, the sides fluted ; the smaller mould must be of a similar form, but only four inches and a half in diameter, and two and three quarters high ; to this latter have four handles bent at the end, to hang it exactly in the centre of the larger mould. Prepare a transparent strawberry jelly, place the larger mould as straight as possible in pounded ice, hang the small one in it, and pour the jelly into the former. Whilst it is congealing pick about twenty fine white strawberries, the same number of red ones, the same of white raspberries, a bunch of red, and the same of white currants; wash all these well, but touch them as little as possible, that they may not lose their freshness. When the jelly is per- fectly set pour some hot water into the small mould, which will enable you to remove it with ease; raise it with great care, so that the space may be found without the slightest flaw ; place on the jelly, in the centre of this space, two bunches of white currants; sun-ound these with a ring of white strawberries, and the latter with a crown or ring of white raspberries; pour over very carefully two or three spoonsful of the jelly, and when that is congealed proceed in the same way with the red currants, straw- berries, and raspben'ies, then the jelly, and so on alternately until all the fruit is used. Fill the mould with jelly, and as soon as the whole is congealed dip your mould in a large saucepan of hot water, and then turn it into a dish in- stantly. The macedoine may be garnished in this manner with any kind of fruit you think proper. It may also be filled with two jellies as follows : white lemon jelly in the large mould, and finished with the same jelly, tinged with either rose colour or yellow. Indeed, the moulds may be varied in any way your fancy may dictate. MACKEREL: To Bake. Open them, cut off the heads, take out the roes, clean them well, and rub them on the inside with some pepper and salt; then replace the roes, and season the fish with pounded allspice, black pepper, and salt; lay them in a pan, covered with equal quan- tities of ^vinegar and water; tie over them strong white paper doubled, and bake them for an hour in a slow oven. They may be kept for a fortnight. MACKEREL: To Boil. Wash them clean, and put them into cold water with a handful of salt, and let them simmer rather than boil. Mackerel of moderate size will be done in about fifteen minutes, but it is easy to ascertain when they are boiled sufiBciently by the projection of the eye and the splitting of the tail. As the roe is seldom done enough in the ordinary way it will be advisable to make a slit in that direc- tion of the belly. Garnish with minced fennel. MACKEREL: To Beoil. Clean the fish, wipe it on a dry cloth, and having cut a slit down the back, lay it on the gridu-on over a slow fire, taking care to turn it when one side is done. Season it with pepper and salt, and put