[ 126 ] LAU LAR truffles and mushrooms; pour off the fat, and shake over them a little flour. Put to them some good gravy, and stew them till they are sufficiently done. If there is any fat skim it off; put to it some lemon juice, and pepper and salt to your taste. LARKS, RAGOtJT OF (2). Pick, singe, and bone the larks ; put them into a stewpan, with a piece of butter, some mushrooms, a bunch of parsley and scallions, a slice of ham, and a scalded sweetbread cut in pieces ; simmer them a minute or two, and then add a little stock, a glass of wine, pepper, and salt. When the larks are nearly done, and the liquor reduced, take out the ham, parsley, and scallions. Serve them with any stewed greens or a cuUis. LARKS, RAISED PIE OF (Hot). Make a raised crust in the usual way, lay some farce at the bottom of it, place some larks (boned) on it, lill up the pie with the same, cover, and lake it. When done take off the top crust, draw away what fat there may be, pour a rich 1 agout into it, season it very highly, and serve it open. LARKS, ROASTED (a la Fban9Aise). Pick and singe the larks, but do not empty them; wrap them in slices of bacon, fasten them on a spit, and roast them. Lay a toast in the dripping-pan under them. Serve the larks on this toast when done. LARKS, SALMIS OF. Having properly prepared your larks, cut them into quarters; take the livers and gizzards, bruise them, and then boil them in a little stock, red wine, minced shallots, salt, and pepper. In about a quarter of an hour put your birds into this, and simmer them an hour. Serve the salmis with fried bread round it. LARKS, STUFFED: To Bake. Choose about eight fine larks, pick them, draw them, and then prepare the following stuffing:— Shred very finely the white of a chicken, a small slice of boiled ham, and as much raw bacon; shred also some fresh sage leaves, and mix the whole together; put in a little pepper, a very little salt, and add a blade of mace shred. When these are all mixed divide it into two parts, and stuff the bodies of the larks with one half of it, saving the other to lay under them. Cut eight slices of fine bacon, big enough to wrap up the larks, spread over each slice of bacon some of the stuffing, and then lay one of the larks upon each slice ; wrap them up in the bacon, and place them side by side in a baking pan; put on the cover of the pan, and send it to the oven. When it comes home pour in some rich veal gravy, squeeze in a little lemon juice, and send it up. LAST. A certain measure of fish, corn, wool, leather, &c. A last of cod fish, white herrings, meal, and ashes for soap, is twelve barrels ; of corn or rape seed, ten quarters ; of gunpowder, twenty-four barrels ; of red herrings, twentj"^ cades or barrels, of 500 each; of hides, twelve dozen; of leather, twenty dickers, of ten hides each; of pitch and tar, fourteen bai'rels ; of wool, twelve sacks ; of stock fish, one thou- sand ; of flax or feathers, 1700 lbs. LATH. In building, a long, thin, and narrow slip of wood, nailed to the rafters of a roof or ceiling in order to sustain the covering. Laths are made of different lunds of wood, chiefly oak, ash, and deal. Oak laths are of two kinds— sap and heart. Deal laths are also of two kinds— those cleft for the purpose of plastering, and those sawn for tiling. Laths are also distin- guished according to their lengths—five feet, four feet, and three feet. They are sold by the bundle, containing one hundred. One hundred, however, of three-feet laths should contain one hundred and forty; of four feet, one hundi'ed and twenty; and of five feet, one hundred, or five score. In such cases the different lengths are all charged at the same price. Laths are usually made by first cleaving the timber out into proper lengths with wedges by the felt grain; that is, the grain which is seen to run round in rings at the end of a tree. They are afterwards cleft into their proper thickness with the chit by the quarter grain, which runs in a straight line towards the pith. LAUDANUM is made by soaking 1J oz. of powdered gum opium for fourteen days in a pint of proof spirit, and then straining it. Vinous laudanum, or wme of opium, is made by soaking in half a pint of sherry wine for eight days, and then straining, i oz. of powdered opium, J drachm of bruised cinnamon, and i drachm of bruised cloves. This vinous laudanum is an admirable application to eyes affected with chronic inflammation. Laudanum is an ano- dyne, and' often allays pain by being rubbed upon the seat of it. If taken internally the dose vai-ies from ten to sixty drops. LAUNDRY-MAID. Much responsibility rests on the laundry-maid. Independently of her having the care of the family linen, &c., in and through the wash, and after it has been ironed, aired, and put away to use, she will probably be required to take charge of the se- veral materials used in washing, such as soap, starch, blue, soda, and a variety of other little things which it is necessary always to have at hand. As it is not unlikely, too, that she may have to purchase such articles, she must not fail to make herself acquainted with their qua- lities, sorts, and prices, and the most economical modes of managing them. Then, again, she must see that the clothes baskets and clothes lines, props, pegSj and