KAB EAB [ 378 ] sit near an open window, or continue for any length of time iu a room lately washed. There is not a readier or more certain way to catch a quinsy than sitting near an open window in a carriage, especially during the night, or when the weather is cold or damp. See also Throat, Inflammatoky Sobe. B. BABBIT : To Carve. This is performed nearly in the same manner as directed for a Hare, dividing the back into two pieces, which, with the legs, are the most esteemed parts. BABBIT: To Collar. Bone a rabbit, and wipe it well; sprinkle it with port or white wine, and a little garlic vinegar. Make a farce with the liver and lights, with bacon ; spread it upon the rabbit; roll it up, with the head looking back, which must not be boned. Cover the bottom of a stewpanwith bacon, and put in a little fine ale or as much stock; bruise the bones, and add carrots, turnips, onions, parsley, sweet herbs, and spices ; simmer slowly for two hours, and reduce part of the glaze to braise, and, to make the sauce, add the blood. If left untouched it may be larded and roasted, as it will keep very well for a week in a cool place under a charcoal cover (but not in too strong an air), or in the braise it was cooked in longer, which will make nice soup, mixed with any vegetable or meat stock ; or use it for dressing ragoiits, curries, or mock venison, coUops of ox heart or mutton. BABBIT GIBELOTTE. Cut a rabbit into pieces as nearly of a size as possible; make a roux with ^ lb. of butter and two dessert-spoonsful of flour, and when it is of a good colour put in the rabbit to brown ; add a quart of good stock, and half the quantity of white wine; stir till it boils, then put in some champignons, streaked bacon (previously browned), a bunch of parsley, scal- lions, a little thyme,'and a bay leaf; set the whole on a brisk fire to reduce the liquor, and season with salt and pepper to the taste. Toss up about thirty small onions in a little butter, and add them, with some bits of eels, to the above when three parts done. Carefully remove all fat, take out the herbs, and serve. BABBIT LOAF. Take a double mould, butter, and fill the spaces round the smaller one with a rabbit quenelle, and place your mould in the bain-marie to simmer. When the farce is sufficiently done turn it out on a dish, taking care no water gets into it; put into the space left by the smaller mould the brains, small fillets, and kidneys, lightly fried ; mix some Espagnole with half a glass of champagne and a fumet of game ; reduce this, and pour it over the contents of the loaf; glaze the exte- rior, and serve. BABBIT, MINCED. Take the remains of a roasted rabbit, cut off all the meat, and mince it vvith a little roast mutton ; then break the bones of the rabbit into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with a slice of butter, some shallots, half a clove of garlic, a bay leaf, and basil; give these a few turns over the fire, and then shake in a little flour ; moisten with a glass of red wine and the same quantity of stock, and let it boil over a slow fire for half an hour strain it off, and put in the minced meat, adding salt and coarse pepper; heat the whole without boiling, and serve hot. Garnish with fried bread. BABBIT PIE. Bruise in a mortar 4 ozs. of bacon, with the livers, pepper, salt, a little mace, parsley chopped small, chives, and a few leaves of sweet basil; make the whole into a paste, and cover the bottom therewith ; lay in two rabbits cut in quarters, and over them some slices of bacon ; put on the lid, and set the pie in the oven. It will take two hours. When done take out the bacon and the fat, and if it wants gravy pour in some boiling hot. BABBIT PIE, BAISED. Cut your rabbits in pieces, put them in a stewpan, with a piece of fresh butter, lemon juice, pepper, salt, parsley, thyme, shallots chopped very fine, and a little pounded mace. When the pieces of rabbit are about half done lay them in a dish, and when cold raise the crust; put light forcemeat at the bottom, the rabbit upon it, and more forcemeat upon the top ; cover it, and put it in a moderate oven to bake gently. When done take off the cover, and add a ragout of sweetbreads, cocks' combs, &c., and serve. BABBIT, PBESEBVED. Having boned a rabbit, lard it with bacon and ham ; season it well inside and out, roll it up, beginning with the legs, make it tight, and tie it; put it into a stewpan, with some oil, thyme, bay leaf, basil; set these on the fire till done enough, but without boiling. When sufficiently done take out the rabbit, drain, let it cool, and then cut it into small pieces, which put into bottles; fill them with oil, and cover with wet bladder. BABBIT PUDDINGS OF BICHELIEU. Prepare for them exactly as for quenelles, only use