VOL [ t516 ] VOL same reason that an active body is more strong and healthy than a sedentary one. The second rule has been anticipated, which is bodily exercise. The ancients recommend walking a certain distance before breakfast— about a mile. Riding on horseback we do not find recommended or practised as mere exercise. In order to strengthen the voice Mr. Sheridan advises that any person who has fallen into a week utterance should daily practise to read and repeat in a large room in the hearing of a jriend. His friend should be placed at first at such a distance as he may be able to reach in his usual manner; the distance is then gradually to be increased, till he shall be so far from him that he cannot be heard beyond hini without straining. There should his friend hear the most part of his declamations ; and through this practice should he proceed, step by steyi, daily, by which he may be enabled to unfold Lis organs, and regularly increase the quantity and strength of his voice. Perhaps the same practice might more easily and effectually be made in the open air, as every speaker cannot conveniently obtain the use of a room of the requisite dimensions. Mr. Walker's rules for strengthening the voice are excellent and practicable, his general jjrinciple is that, in order to strengthen the higher tones of the voice, such passages should be practised as require the high tones. These are particularly a succession of questions ending with the rising inflection. For the middle tones passionate speeches requiring them should be pi'actised; and for bringing down the voice, which is apt to run wild, and not to be in our power when long continued above, the succeeding sentence is to be begun, if the subject will admit, and delivered in a lower tone. VOL-AU-VENT (1). Take | lb. of puff paste, give it six turns, roll it out to a tolerable thickness, and take care that it is equally thick all over; lay a very thin paste on a baking tin, put the puff paste on it, cut it to the size and shape of the dish it is to be served in, make a mark all round the top at an inch and a half from the edge, dorez and decorate the sides and top according to taste, and bake it in a mode- rate oven. When done take out the inside as marked, replace it in the oven to dry a little, and fill your vol-au-vent with sucli ragouts or fruits as may be directed. VOL-AU-VENT (2). Cut some cold turkey or veal into small thin slices, season with dried lemon-peel grated, pepper, pounded mace, salt, one anchovy, some garlic and onion pounded, with a little good gravy and lemon pickle, some white wine, and 1 oz. of butter rolled in flour; then make it quite hot, but do not allow it to boil, and serve it in the prepai'ed vol-au-vent. The gravy may be made with the bones and a little cream, or the beaten yolk of an egg may be substituted for the cream. VOL-AU-VENT (3). Separate the oysters from the liquor, which must be strained; take off the beards, and add to them the liquor, together with some white stock, a bit of butter rolled in flour, two or three blades of mace, a bit of lemon-peel, pepper, and salt; simmer them for fifteen or twenty minutes, and a little before putting them into the vol-au-vent pick out the lemon-peel; add a table-spoonful of white wine and three of good cream, and make it quite hot. To make oyster patties, when they are to be beai-ded, cut them into three or four bits, and prepare them in the same manner. VOL-AU-VENT (4). Roll some tart paste till about the eighth of an inch thick; then with a tin cutter, made for that purpose (about the size of the bottom of the dish you intend to send to table), cut out the shape, lay it on a baking plate with paper, and rub it over with yolk of egg; roll out good puff paste about an inch thick, stamp it with the same cutter, and lay it on the tart paste ; then take a cutter two sizes smaller, and press it in the centre nearly through the yiuff paste; rub the top with yolk of egg, and bake it in a quick oven for about twenty minutes of a light brown colour. When done take out the paste inside the centre mark, preserving the top, put it in a dish in a warm place, and when wanted fill it with a white fricassee of chicken, rabbit, ragout of sweet- bread, or any other entree you wish. VOL-AU-VENT, PUFF PASTE FOR. This paste, more than any other, requires all the attention that can be possibly given to it. Take 1 lb. of well-dried flour, lay aside a little for working it, weigh and wash 1 lb. of butter, put a small bit of it into the flour, melt the salt in cold water, and make it up into a very smooth paste of a fine workable consistence ; let it remain till the batter (if it has not been prepared the evening before), is washed and prepared, which should be brought to the consistence of the paste; and should it be rather soft, put it into a dish, and set it on a cold stone floor or into cold water. Dust the table with flour, and spread out the paste as square as possible ; form the butter in a cloth into a square, lay it in the middle, and let the sides be folded up to cover it completely ; dust it with flour, and roll it gently out, that the butter may not break through the paste (which it will be apt to do if it is harder), the length of the table ; fold it up in them, dust the table and paste again with flour, and roll it out; dust with flour, roll it again in three, and roll it