SKA SKI [ Ul ] Garnish with the liver. Pour melted butter aud strew capers over it. . SKATES. When good they are very white and thick. If dressed too fresh they are hard and unpleasant to the taste. They should, therefore, be kept a day or two, but not long enough to produce an unpleasant smell. SKIN. (See Cosmetics.) The skin must not be considered merely as a common covering to defend us from the sun and the rain, but as one of the most important organs of our body, without the incessant activity and agency of which there can be neither health nor long life, and in the neglect of which, in modern times, lies the secret source of numberless diseases and evils that tend to shorten our existence. The skin is the greatest medium for purifying our bodies, and every moment a multitude of useless, corrupted, and worn - out particles evaporate through its numberless small vessels in an insensible manner. This secretion is in- separably connected with life and the circulation of our blood, and by it the greater part of all the impurity of our bodies is removed. If the skin, therefore, be flabby or inactive, and if its pores be stopped up, an acridity and corruption of our juices will be the unavoidable consequence, and the most dangerous diseases may ensue. Besides, the skin is the seat oi feeling, the most general of all our senses, or that which in an essential manner connects us with surround' ing nature, and in particular with the atmo- sphere, and by the state of which, in a great measure, the sensation of our own existence, and the relation we bear to everything around us, are determined. Hence a greater or less sensibility in regard to disease depends very much on the skin ; and those whose skin is weak or relaxed have generally a sensation too delicate and unnatural, by which means it happens that they are internally affected, in a manner highly disagreeable, by every small variation in the weather, every change of the atmosphere, and at length become real barometers. Such a con- stitution is called the rheumatic, and arises chiefly from a want of strength in the skin. It occasions a tendency to perspii'ation, which is also an unnatural state, and which exposes us continually to colds and other disorders. It is likewise a grand means for preserving an equilibrium in the powers and motion of our bodies. The more open and active the skin is, the more secure will people be against obstruc- tions, and diseases of the lungs, intestines, and lower belly, and the less tendency will they have to bilious fevers, hypochondriasis, gout, asthma, catarrh, and piles. One great cause of these disorders being so common among us is, that we no longer endeavour to cleanse and Strengthen the skin by bathing and other meang. The skin, moreover, is one of the most important means of the restoration of our bodies, by which a multitude of fine spiritual component parts are conveyed to us from the atmosphere. Without a sound skin there can be no complete restoration, which is one of the chief principles of long life. It ought also not to be forgotten that the skin is the grand organ of crises, that is to say, the assistant of nature in disease, and that a man with open pores and a skin sufficiently vigorous may depend on being cured much more easily, and with moi'e cei-tainty, and often even without the use of medicine. That such an organ must be a great support of health and life no one will deny; and it is therefore incomprehensible how people in modern times, since mankind have become more enlightened, should neglect it so much. Nay, we in general find that, instead of paying the least attention to it, they from their infancy do everything in their power, as it were, to relax and to weaken it, and to stop up its pores. The generality of mankind seldom or never experience the benefit of bathing during their whole lives ; the skin by dirt and daily perspiration is more and more stopped up, weakened, and relaxed by warm clothing, furs, feather beds, &c.; rendered inactive by confined air and a sedentary life; and we think we may without exaggeration assert that, among the greater part of men, the pores of the skin are half closed and unfit for use. SKIRT. The following is extracted from "The Dress - Maker," published by Messrs. Houlston and Stoneman :— Some few things are true about the making of all skirts, through every change of fashion, and whether the dress be of the coarsest stuff or of the richest satin. These are— 1. That you should pin or tack together the breadths of the skirt at the top before you begin, that you may not chance to put in more gores on one side than the other, if there are gores, or find that the hind-breadth comes to one side. 2. That you should, while thus arranging the breadths, look very carefully that no one is turned wrong side out if there are two sides, or, if figured, with the pattern upside down. 3. That, as the uppermost edge takes up the most, as your work lies over your finger, and as the cut edge stretches more than the selvage, you should pin from top to bottom, before you begin to join them, the breadths on which you are employed. This is the only sure way of avoiding puckering. 4. That you should, as often as possible, begin your run at the top, that, if there is any left over, it may go off at the bottom, where it is of