[ 330 PIL VIG PIGS' HARSLET. Wash and dry some livers, sweetbreads, and some fat and lean pieces of pork, beating the latter with a rolling-pin to make them tender ; season with pepper, salt, sage, and a little onion shred finely. When mixed put all into a caul, fasten it tightly with a needle and thread, and roast it by a jack or a string. PIG'S HEAD, COLLARED. Very nicely scour the head and ears; take off the hair and snout, and take out the eyes and brains; let it lie for one night in water; then drain it, salt it extremely well with common salt and saltpetre, and let it lie for five days. Boil it sufficiently to take out the bones; then lay it on a dresser, turning the thick end of one side of the head towards the thick end of the other, fo make the roll of an equal size; sprinkle it well with salt and white pepper, and roll it with the ears ; and if you think proper put the pig's feet round the outside when boned, or the thin parts of a couple of cow-heels. Put it into a cloth, bind with broad tape, and boil it till quite tender; then put it under a weight, and do not take off the covering till quite cold, If you wish it to be more like brawn, salt it longer, and let the proportion of saltpetre be greater; put in also some pieces of lean pork, and then cover it with cow-heel, to look like the horn. This will keep in or out of pickle of salt and water, boiled with vinegar. If likely to spoil, slice and fry it either with or without batter. PIGS' PETTITOES A LA STE. MENfi- HOULD. Well clean and wash the pettitoes, then line the bottom of a stewpan with an onion and a carrot cut in slices, a few peppercorns, parsley, a clove of garlic, and a bay leaf; over these lay bards of fat bacon, then place the pettitoes regularly over, then a fresh layer of bacon, then pettitoes again, and baeon over them; add some good beef stock, lay a round piece of paper close on the top, cover, and put them to stew between two fires very gently till thoroughly done; then take them off, and when they are cool toss them in eggs, .with pepper and salt; do them over with bread crumbs, and lay them on paper; then dip them in clarified butter, and do them over with bread crumbs a second time; lay them on the gridiron, and grill them a fine light brown; dish them up, and serve under them a good remolade sauce. PIGS' TONGUES, SMOKED. Take as many pigs' tongues as you please, take out the horny parts, and scald them sufficiently to enable you to remove the first skin ; put them as closely together as you can into a jar, rubbing each with salt and a little saltpetre; add basil, bay leaf, thyme, and juniper berries; place some- thing heavy on the top to press them down, fill all the interstices with salt, cover the jar \ery closely, and set it in a cool place. In a week's time take out the tongues, drain and tie them in skins like black puddings, and smoke them. When the tongues are required for table boil them in water, with a little wine, a bunch of parsley, scallions, onions, thyme, bay leaf, and basil. Serve them cold. PIKE : To Choose. When this fish is in perfection the colours are very tine, being green, spotted with yellow, and the gills of a vivid red. When out of season—that is, from December to June—the green changes to grey, and the yellow spots assume a paler hue. To judge of its freshness attend to the preceding rules. For some modes of cooking this fish see Jack. PIKE ; To Roast. Scale and wash the fish, lard it with eels rolled in sweet herbs and spicery, and roast it unbent; or fasten its tail in the mouth, baste it with butter, and strew over it crumbs of bread. Serve it up with anchovy or oyster sauce PIKE . To Stew. Make a browning with butter and flour, and put it into the pan, with a pint of red wine, four cloves, twelve small onions parboiled, and some pepper and salt; cut the fish in pieces, and stew the whole gently. When done take it out, and add to the sauce two anchovies, and a spoonful of capers chopped small; boil it a few minutes, and poiu' it over the pike. Garnish with fried bread. PILCHARD PIE. Skin and clean the white part of some large leeks, scald the same in milk and water, and dispose them in layers in the dish; between these place two or three salted pilchards which have been previously soaked in water for some hours, and cover the whole with a plain crust. On taking the pie out of the oven lift up the lid, pour off the. liquor, and substitute in its stead half a pint of cream. This pie is peculiar to Cornwall, and there are few persons, we apprehend, out of that county, who could digest such a strong dish. It may be adduced as an illustration of the proverb that " the devil is afraid to go into Cornwall, lest he should he seized, and made into a pie." PILCHARDS. These fish have a near affinity to the herring, but are a distinct species, and much smaller. The rule for judging them IS the same Pilchards arrive on the coast of Cornwall, and nowhere else, in July, and retire at the beginning of winter. They always come in large shoals, and are taken in nets in such numbers that ship-loads were formerly sent every year into the Mediterranean. They also yield a great quantity of oil, which is used for various purposes. Sprats visit the eastern coast when the herrings ai'e about to disappear, that is, at