[ 263 ] OIL OIL OIL. The principal fixed vegetable oils obtained by pressure are the following :— Apricot Oil. Agreeable to the taste. Used for that of almonds. Argan Oil. From the seeds of FJiamnus sicitlus. Sold for olive oil. Beeciimast Oil. Very clear, keeps -well, and is a very good salad oil. It is used in Silesia . in lieu of butter. Buckwheat Oil. From tlie seeds of buck- wheat, or Fagopyrum. Camellia Oil. From the seeds of Camellia oleifera. Used for the table. Castor Oil. Commonly distinguished into the foreign oil imported either from the West Indies, whei'e it is obtained by decoction in water (10 lbs. of seeds yield 1 lb. of oil), or from the East Indies, where it is obtained by grinding in a mortar, with a hole in the side for the super- natant oil to run off, being in common use there for lamp oil; and that made at home by the press, which is the best, especially some that is prepared from cold-blanched seeds, with the eye taken out. Some chemists are said to take out the colour from the foreign oils by certain additions, and sell them for English, or, as it is called, cold-drawn castor oil. The acridity communicated to the oil by the eyes of the seeds may be got rid of by washing the oil in boiling water, or with weak spirit of vitriol; but it is seldom done in this country. It is soluble in warm spirit of wine, and its adulteration may thus be discovered if thought necessary ; but, as all the fat oils have nearly the same qualities, the taste is sufficient for practical purposes. Purgative in doses of ^oz. to l^oz., floated on some distilled water or some wine; or, if it does not usually stay well on the stomach, on some tincture of senna; or made into an emulsion with yolk of egg and a little distilled water, with 20 drops of tincture of lavender, and a spoonful of simple syrup. It may also be used in clysters. It is particularly useful where a stimulant would be hurtful, as it operates quickly without disturbing the system: ex- ternally in swelling pains. Contrary to most medicines, on frequent repetition a less dose is sufficient. CocoA-NtiT Oil. Obtained from the kernel of the Cocos nuci/era. It is solid, and good for candles. CoLD-DKAWN Ltnseed Oil. Viscous, bitter, and makes but a soft soap. Used in lamps, but chiefly in painting, and is very drying. It dis- solves one-fourth of its weight of litharge, and forms with it a kind of transparent varnish. Cornel Oil. From the seeds of Cornus mascula and sanrjinnea. Answers for lamps, but not for the table. GiNGELLY Oil. From the seeds of the Sesamum orientale. Used for food and in painting. GiNGKO Oil. From the seeds of Ginyko biloba. Used for the table. Ground Pea Oil. From the Arachts hjjpo- gcea. Eatable, but has a strong tnsie ; keeps and burns well, and makes good soap. Hemp Oir,. From hemp seed. Good for frying in. Used by the painters as a drying oil. Hemp Nettle Oil. From the seeds of Galeopsis tetrahit. Yielded very plentifully. Mustard Oil. From the hulls of black mustard after the flour has been sifted from them. It resembles rape oil, and is sold for it. Nettle-tree Oil. From the seeds of Celtis australis. Excellent for the lamp. Nut Oil. From the kernel of the hazel nut. Very fine substitute for oil of ben. As it will keep better than that of almonds, it has been proposed to be substituted for that oil in the College lists, being nearly equal to it. It is drunk with tea in China, probably in lieu of cream. Used by painters as a superior vehicle for their colours. Oil of Ben. From the nuts of the Ouilandina moringa. Scentless, colourless. Keeps long with- out growing rank. Used in perfumery, to re- ceive and retain the odour of those vegetables that yield but little essential oil, and thus forms the basis of the best sort of huiles antiques. Oil of Common Physic Nut. Used as castor oil for a purge. Oil of Mace in Jars. Obtained from nut- megs by the press. Buttery, having the smell and colour of mace, but grows paler and harder by age. Two pounds of nutmegs in Europe yielded 6 ozs. of this oil. Olive Oil. Salad oil—Sweet oil. The most agreeable of the oils. It is demulcent, emollient, gently laxative, and is also used as an emetic with warm water. Dose, 1 oz., or one large spoonful. Externally, when warm, to the bites of serpents, and cold to tumours and dropsies. Rank oil is best for plasters; but fresh oil makes the best hard soap. Oil of Poppy Seeds. Pojipy oil. Used as a salad oil. It is not narcotic, as has been supposed. It keeps well, is drying, does not burn well, and smokes very much. It makes a soft soap, but is very good in plasters. Oil of Sesamum. From the seeds of gold of pleasure, Myagrum sativum. Used for burn- ing in lamps and in ointments, &c. Oil of Stone Pine Kernels grows rank very soon. Sixteen pounds of kernels yield 5 lbs. of oil. Oil of Sweet Almonds. It is usually made from bitter almonds for cheapness, or from old