[ S30 ] MUT MUT MUTTON BROTH (1). Take 2 lbs. of of the neck, and from the middle of the leg. and ginger. Ground roasted coffee is also a very excellent antiseptic. The leg spoils sooner than any other joint of mutton, to prevent which take out tlie kernel from the fat. The neck will keep well if the pipe be cut out from along the chine-bone. Take out the kernel from the shoulder. Cut the skirt out of the breast. The carcass of the sheep consists of the follow- ing parts:— 1. The leg. 2. Best end of loin. 3. Chump end of loin. 4. Best end of neck. 5. Scrag end of neck. 6. Shoulder. 7. Breast. A cldne is the two loins. A saddle is the two necks. The leg and the loin are the superior joints, and the preference would probably be given more frequently to the latter but for the super- abundance of its fat, which renders it a not very economical dish. The haunch consists of the leg and the part of the loin adjoining it; the saddle of the two loins together, or of the undivided back of the sheep. These last are always roasted, and are served usually at good tables, or for company dinners, instead of the smaller joints. The shoulder, dressed in the ordinary way, is not very highly esteemed; but when boned, rolled, and filled with forcemeat, it is of more presentable appearance, and, to many tastes, far better eating, though some persons prefer it in its natural form, accompanied with stewed onions. It is occasionally boiled or stewed, and covered with rich onion sauce. The neck is sometimes roasted, but it is more generally boiled. The scrag, or that part of the neck adjoining the bead, is seldom used for any other purpose than making broth,'and shoufd be taken off before the joint is dressed. Chops from the thick end of the loin are commonly preferred to any others; but they are frequently taken likewise from the best end MUTTON : To Ragout. Cut from a leg of mutton some thin slices the right way of the grain, and pare off the skin and fat. Put a little butter into a stewpan, shake some tiour over it, add thereto some slices of lemon, half an onion cut small, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a blade of mace. Put these with the meat into the pan, and stir them five or six minutes, after which add half a pint of gravy, with an anchovy minced, and a little butter rolled in flour. Stir the whole well, and when it has stewed about ten minutes serve it up, garnished with lemon and pickles. MUTTON, BEKOBBED. Take the fat and skin from a loin of mutton, joint it com- pletely, and mix some grated nutmeg with salt and pepper, bread crumbs, and herbs ; dip the steaks in the yolk of an egg, and sprinkle the mixture over them. Next place them together as they were before their separation, tie them, and fasten them on a small spit. Roast them be fore a quick fire, set a dish under them, bastf them with butter and the liquor produced by the meat, and throw some more of the seasoning over them. When done take up the mutton, have ready half a pint of good gravy, and put into it two spoonsful of catsup ; rub down with it a tea-spoonful of flour, give the whole a boil, and pour it over the mutton, after skimming off the fat. Garnish with pickles. MUTTON, BREAST OF (Boiled). Boil the mutton, and afterwards broil it, having first strewed it over with shred parsley and young onions, some salt, pepper, and grated bread crumbs. MUTTON, BREAST OF (Collaked). Take out the bone and gristle, and then make a forcemeat with bread crumbs, parsley, and sweet herbs chopped finely, and seasoned with salt and pepper; rub the mutton with yolk of egg, and spread the forcemeat over it; roll it up, tie it tightly with tape or string, and boil two hours. If it be eaten hot make a gravy of the bones, two onions, herbs, and seasoning ; strain, thicken it with butter and flour, add vinegar and mushroom catsup to flavour it, and pour over the mutton. If to be eaten cold do not remove the string till the mutton is wanted. MUTTON, BREAST OF (Roasted with Wine). Skin and bone a breast of mutton, and then roll it up in a collar like a breast of veal; roast it, and baste it with half a pint of red wine. When you have used up all the wine finish basting with butter. Have a little good gravy in readiness, and when the mutton is done set it upright in a dish; pour on the gravy, prepare sweet sauce the same as for venison, and send it up to table without any garnish.