TAR [ 480 ] TAP fepooasful of tapioca into a quart of milk, and ] <?t it remain all night; then add a spoonful of brandy, some lemon-peel, and a little spice ; let them boil gently; add four eggs, the whites well beaten, and ^ lb. of sugar. Bake it. TAPIOCA PDDDING (2). Put four large table-spoonsful of tapioca into a quart of milk, and let it stand all night. In the morning put half a pint of milk into a small saucepan, and hoil in it a large stick of cinnamon broken up, and a handful of bitter almonds or peach kernels broken small; keep it covered, and boil it slowly till highly flavoured with the cinnamon and almonds, which must then be strained out, and the milk mixed with that which has the tapioca in it; put it into a tin vessel, or one lined with porcelain, and boil it till it becomes very thick with the dissolved tapioca, stirring it frequently down to the bottom ; add a piece of fresh butter as large as an egg, I lb. of sugar, four well-beaten eggs stirred in gradually, a table-spoonful of brandy, and a grated nutmeg; stir the whole well together, put it into a deep dish, and bake it an hour. Instead of boiling bitter almonds use the cinnamon only, and when you are afterwards finishing the whole mixture stir in a spoonful of peach water at the last. TAR. A great part of the turpentine made in France is from the seaside pine {Piniis niari- tima), the timber of which is of little value, being light, soft, and spongy : the leaves are eaten by sheep. This is very much cultivated along the seacoast, particularly in Gascogne, Sologne, Gatinais, Berry, and Bretagne; but it is principally in the department of the Landes that the turpentine is made. In the spring, when the resinous sap runs from the wound, it leaves behind it in its course a thick matter like cream, but thicker; this is re- moved from the tree in winter, and is different from all the kinds of resin and turpentine in use, being called by the French galipot or harms: owhen purified by melting in water, and straining, it becomes what is called Bur- (jundy pitch. The turpentine of the consist- ence of honey, being left behind after the liquid portion has been separated, is put into a still with a large quantity'' of water, and dis- tilled as long as any oil is seen swimming on the surface of the water: this is the common oil of tiDpentine, and the matter remaining at the bottom of the still is rosin. When all the sap has been obtained that the tree will yield it is hewn down, and the wood cut into billets to make tar as follows:—A conical cavity is dug in the ground, commonly in the side of a bank or on the slope of a hill, within or near a forest; the billets of wood and branches of the pine are filled into the cavity, and piled above it till they form a large stack, and are then covered with turf, beaten firmly down; the stack is kindled, and allowed to burn with a slow smouldering combustion, during which the tar is formed by the decomposition of the resinous juice of the wood. A cast-iron pan receives the tar at the bottom of the cavity as it descends, and delivers it, by a projecting spout through the bank or other base of the cavity, into barrels placed to receive it; and the barrels, immediately on being filled, are closed with bungs, and are then ready for exportation. Common Hack pitch is made from the refuse of rosin and turpentine, such as will not pass through the straw filter, and the cuttings round the incisions on the tree : this is boiled down slowly, and the residue is pitch. Pitch is, in fact, the solid black mass whicli is left after the liquid parts of tar have been evaporated. Besides the tar obtained from the pine several kinds of tar are found in commerce, such as Barhadoes tar, mineral tar, and the tar latterly obtained from the decomposition of coal for gas. All kinds of tar, when used as a paint for outdoor structures, are improved by having a small quantity of fat or tallow melted and mixed with them. Dusting over the paint with slaked lime renders it far more durable. Gas tar and common tar will not combine. As a medicine tar is stimulant, diuretic, and sudorific, and externally detergent in various CHtaneous diseases. Its chief use, however, as a medicine is in the following prepara- tions :— Oil of Tar is occasionally used for some cutaneous eruptions of sheep, &c., but is never given internally. OiNTJiENT OF Tar. Take of tar and prepared mutton suet, of each equal parts. Melt first the suet, and gradually add the tar ; strain, and stir the mixture till cold. This is a useful ointment for scalled head and other scabby eruptions. An addition of 1 drachm of calomel well mixed without heat, with ] oz. of tar ointment, will make a much more active medicine in various cutaneous diseases; but its application requires discretion. Tar Water may be made thus :—Take of tar 2 pints ; water, 1 gallon. Mix them, stir- ring with a wooden rod for a quarter of an hour; then, after the tar has subsided, let the liquor be strained, and keep it in well-corked bottles. This preparation is stimulant and diuretic, and may possibly prove useful in scurvy and some cutaneous diseases. It is, how^ever, scarcely heard of in modern medicine. From one to two pints may be taken in the course of the day. TAR WATER. See Tar.