[ 528 J VEA VEA crumb of a roll grated fine, half a pint of oysters, a pint of cream, and a bit of butter rolled in Hour. Let this sauce thicken over the fire, and serve it over the veal. Garnish the dish with oysters dipped in butter and fried, and thin slices of toasted bacon. VEAL LIVER: To Fry. Cut the liver across the grain, wash it well, pour boiling water on it, and let it stand a few minutes; then drain and season it with salt and pepper, flour it, and drop it in hot lard. When it is brown on both sides dish it; dust a little flour in the pan, and pour in some water; let it boil a minute, stirring in a seasoning of parsley, thyme, or sweet marjoram, and pour the gi'avy over the liver. This is a good breakfast dish. VEAL, LOIN OF (a LA Bechamel). Chop cut the inner bone from a nice white loin of veal, and trim it so that it will lie smoothly on the dish; chop off part of the chump end, and put it down to roast: let it be well done. Have a bechamel sauce prepared, and a few minutes before the veal is roasted enough take it up, cut a deep square hole close to where the chump was cut off, mince the lean you have cut out ex- tremely fine, put it into the hot bechamel sauce, and pour it again into the hole. Serve it to table with a well-buttered toast under the kidney, and plenty of gravy. VEAL, LOIN OF (with Eagout). Prepare the loin the same as in the preceding receipt, only take particular care it is not roasted of too high a colour. Prepare a ragout made with truffles, mushrooms, cocks' combs, livers, artichoke bot- toms well stewed, &c.; lay your veal in the centre of the dish, place the artichokes round, pour the ragout round and over the artichokes, and serve to table. VEAL, LOIN OF (Roasted). The fat of the loin must be prepared. Roast it the same as a fillet. VEAL, LOIN OF (Sauce for). Take all kinds of sweet herbs, and the yolks of three hard eggs minced fine ; boil them together with some currants, a little grated bread, beaten ciimamon, sugar, and two whole cloves; pour the sauce into the dish, and add thereto two or three slices of Seville orange. VEAL, MINCED. Cut the veal into very small pieces, but do not chop it; take a little white gravy, a little cream or milk, a bit of butter rolled in flour, and some grated lemon- peel ; let these boil till of the consistence of fine thick cream, shake flour over the veal, and sprinkle it with a little salt and white pepper; put it into a saucepan with the other ingredients, and make it quite hot.' Be careful it does not coil after the veal has been put in, or it will be hard. Before being taken up squeeze in some lemon juice, and serve it on a dish over sippets. VEAL, MINCED (with Poached Eggs). Mince part of a fillet of veal extremely fine, put it into a stewpan, and pour over it a suffi- cient quantity of good hot bechamel sauce to make it of a tolei'able thickness; then have a stewpanful of water, with a little vinegar in it. and as soon as it boils break in two eggs, and keep boiling quickly, but not so as to boil over. When they are done take them out with a cullender spoon, put them into another stewpan with clear warm water, and so on till six are done. Wiien you want to serve squeeze a little lemon juice in the mince, pour it on a hot dish, take the eggs out of the water neatly trim them lay them on some veal, and serve. VEAL, MINCED (in a Timbale). Make some mince the same as Veal, Minced, and keep it hot by the fire ; fry some well-made pancakes without sugar or lemon-peel, and then lay a pancake at the bottom and all round a well-buttered oval mould ; then lay the rest open, and spread each with the mince; roll them up neatly, lay them closely in the mould, and cover them up with a pancake. About half an hour before dinner is to be served put them into a moderate oven, and when wanted turn them out on a dish, and pour a little strong gravy in the dish under them. VEAL, NECK OF (Boiled). Chop off the chine-bone from a fine white neck of veal, sprinkle it with flour, put it in cold water, and boil it very gently, taking care to skim it well. When done serve it with parsley and butter, oyster sauce, or garnished with tongue or ham. VE.\L, NECK OF (Stewed). Season some slices of bacon with salt, pepper, shallots, and spices ; lai'd a breast of veal with these, and let it simmer until tender in three pints of stock, two onions, a bay leaf, and a little brandy. When done lay the meat in a d'mh, skim off the fat trom the liquor, and pour it over the veal. VEAL NOIX EN BALLOTIN. Season some lardons with salt, pepper, four spices, shred parsley and scallions, thyme, and bay leaf; lard with this a noix of veal, and then put it into a stewpan with ^ lb. of butter; add pepper and salt, set it on the fire for three quaj-ters of an hour without letting it take colour, and then put the veal in a dish; leave the pan on the fire that the butter may oil; add I lb. of grated bacon, the same of oil, and a dessert-spoonful of shallots chopped, and fry them a little; then put in a dozen cham- pignons chopped, a spoonful of shred parsley, seasoned with pepper and nutmeg, and when they are all done pour them over the veal. As soon as cold take six sheets of paper, oil them well, lay the slices of bacon over the meat, then