WAL [ 551 ] WAS twenty-four liours during eight or nine days, increasing the degree daily, so that at the last day it may be at jierle. A small quantity of coarse sugar should be added at every boiling, as the fruit ought to be covered with the syrup on the ninth day. Put a few cloves and some cinnamon in a glass of water for twenty-four hours; then cut each clove into four pieces lengthwise, cut the cinnamon also into bits about the same size, take the walnuts out of the syrup, and stick four pieces of clove and as many of cinnamon into every wahiut. In the mean- time boil the syrup to grande lisse, and wheu half cold pour it over the fruit, and leave it; in twenty-four hours drain off the syrup, and set it on the fire for the last time. As soon as it begins to boil put in the fruit, let them boil up together about a dozen times, and then take them from the fire. Make the bottles quite hot, put in the walnuts one by one with a skimmer, pour the syrup on (they should be quite covered with it), and when cold cork them tightly, and tie parchment over every one. These walnuts may be eaten immediately, or thev will keep for years. WALNUTS, RATAFIA OF. Take 1 lb. of young walnuts—if a pin will not pass through easily they are too old ; pound them well, and infuse them for six weeks in two quarts of brandy, with ^ drachm of cinnamon and 10 grains of m^ace. At the end of that period strain the infusion, mix it with 1 lb. of sugar dissolved in half a pint of water, and let it remain six weeks longer. WARD'S DROPS. See Friab's Balsam. WARMING-PAN. The best is made water- tight, and filled with boiling water as the source of heat. If the old cinder system is followed, then attend to these notes from the " Magazine of Domestic Economy :" The warming-pan should be as large at the bottom as at the top, with sides swelling beyond them. It must shut down perfectly close, and must on no account possess those absurd, irra- tional holes, that seem made on purpose to suffocate all the consumptive in her Majesty's dominions. Not an exit must be allowed whereby a stray coal may expend its smoke ; and this pre- eminent pan, being half full of clear, brisk, bright red cinders (no ashes), a " very hot pan," in a word, is ready to commence its operations. It must be passed hastily and sharply all over the bed, the left hand being employed in lifting and wafting the bedclothes repeatedly to allow the damp (from perspiration and atmospheric moisture) to escape. When the bed feels dry and warm (for at first it will be sensibly damp to the hand), the heat will have so far passed away from the pan, that it may be safely placed beneath the clothes that are turned down at the top of the bed. Move the pan slowly along upon the pillows, occasionally shaking tlie clothes; then proceed to the night-dress, in which the pan is to be left. The volume of steam which will arise from this airing dress will astonish those who have never witnessed it; and they will naturally rejoice to think that this prodigious quantity of moisture is not to be imbibed by their pores during the night. Shake the night-dress, nestle into the genial warmth, and then compare the right with the wrong method of warming a bed. WAR.TS. Touch the top of each with aqua- fortis (nitric acid). The top will turn yellow : scratch this off the next day. Touch them again with the aquafortis, and so continue the application until they are removed. Corns can only be removed by wearing a collar round each of diachylon, spread upon thick wash- leather. This keeps off the pressure, and, if persevered in, the corns go away. Do not let the nitric acid be applied to the wart if it is bleeding, but only to the hard crust, otherwise it causes a wound Icag in healing. WASH-BALLS. See Balls, Wash, and Soap. WASHING. {See Laundry - Maid.) We fully coincide with the following remarks of Mrs. Parkes:— The present habits, both of the heads of families and their servants, render the old- fashioned monthly wash out of the question in these days; and if that were not the case, we doubt whether, taking everything into con- sideration, it would be desirable to revive the custom. To keep a laundry-maid, and to send the dirty linen out weekly to a laundress, are the two modes of management now generally adopted. The expediency of the first plan depends upon the size of a family, and the con- veniences which the house may afford for this arrangement. When a family is large enough to employ the whole time of a laundry-maid in washing, getting up, and in assisting to repair the linen, we are inclined to think it a desirable plan to be adopted. It almost in-ures good washing and the proper airing of the linen. The inconveniences are, the danger of extravagance iu soap, candles, and coals, which would render it very expensive. The laundry, also, is often a place of resort and gossip for the other servants of the family, which is an evil difBcult to prevent, unless a very strict observation is kept up on the part of the mistress. It is, perhaps, the most convenient and least troublesome plan to send out your washing to a laundress, though, if your family be large, the expense is immense: each article being separately charged makes the whole amount to a considerable sum weekly. The