POT [ 354 ] POT pour tlie solution into a clean iron pot, and evaporate the water with a gentle heat until the liquor thickens ; lastly, witlidraw the fire, and stir assiduously with an iron or wooden spatula until the salt concretes into small grains. A purer subcarbonate of potash may be pre- pared in a similar manner from tartar, pre- viously burnt till it is of an ash colour. This salt deliquesces in the air, and it must therefore be kept in well-stopped bottles. Its taste is acrid and urinous ; it changes to green the -vegetable blue and red colours, combines with oil and forms soap, and is decomposed by acids with effervescence. Subcarbonate of potash is deobstruent, diuretic, and antacid. Its effects on the kidneys are considerable when aided by plentiful dilution. Its principal use is for the formation of salhie draughts, for which purpose it is given in com- bination with a solution of citric acid, or with recent lemon juice, in the proportion of 1 scruple of the salt to 4 fluid ozs. of lemon juice, in febrile affections: from 1 oz. to '2 ozs. of this mixture may be taken for a dose. When given as an antacid the taste and acrimony of subcarbonate of potash are best covered with milk: its dose for such purpose is from 10 grains to i drachm. Sulphate of Potash is deobstruent and cathartic. It is given with great advantage in the visceral obstructions of children, and, in combination with rhubarb and aloes, in jaun- dice and dyspeptic affections. It is generally given in powder, from its sparing solubility in water. The dose is from 10 grains to 1 drachm, according as it is intended to act as a deobstruent or purge. Tartrate oe Potash is a valuable purga- tive, operating easily and without griping, and even corrects the griping properties in senna and other resinous purgatives. The dose is from 1 drachm to 1 oz., dissolved in water. Water of Supercarbonate of Potash is one of those acidulous waters which are pre- pared in a large way in the metropolis, and so much in fashion. It may be prepared on a small scale by the soda-water apparatus. Two scruples of subcarbonate of potash, dissolved in a pint of water, is about the usual proportion; but a less proportion of the alkali will render the taste of the water more agi'eeable. The more carbonic acid can be combined with it the better. It is scarcely necessai-y to add that it must be kept in a cool place, in bottles, well stopped. It is tonic^ diuretic, and antacid; it is also regarded as lithontriptic, and is bene- ficial in dyspepsia and gout. It forms with lemon juice an effervescing draught, preferable to that prepared with the carbonate. For particulars relative to nitrate of potash, usually called saltpetre, see Nitre. POTATO BALLS. Make mashed potatoes into balls with egg yolks, flour them, fry them in dripping, and drain them, or brown them before the fire. POTATO BISCUITS. Beat the yolks of fifteen eggs with 1 lb. of sifted sugar ; grate the rind of a lemon on a piece of lump sugar, scrape of! the yellow sugar with a knife, and having dried it well, add it to the above, and continue till it becomes quite white. In the meantime whip up an equal number of whites, and mix them lightly with the rest; then sift into it ^ lb. of potato flour, stir it in, and ponr the preparation into paper cases, but not to fill them ; glaze, and place the paper on cases laid on a clean baking tin, and bake in a moderate oven. POTATO BREAD. Dry 2 lbs. of fine flour, and rub it into 1 lb. of warm mealy potatoes; add warm milk and water, with a suSicient quantity of yeast and salt at the proper time ; leave it two hours to I'ise in a warm corner in winter, and bake it in tin shapes, otherwise it will spread, as the dough will rise very light. It makes nice hot rolls for buttering. An excellent tea or bun bread is made from it by adding sugar, eggs, and currants. POTATO CAKES, SMALL. Take 12 ozs. of fine while roasted potato ; pound it with 4 ozs. of butter; add 4 ozs. of sugar, 2 ozs. of sifted flour, two yolks, and a little salt; pound the whole into a perfect paste; dust the table with flour, take the paste from the mortar, and finish as for Potato Biscuits. POTATO CHEESECAKES. Pare and boil thoroughly ^ lb. of the best kind of potatoes. When quite done rub them through a sieve, and mix with them two eggs well beaten, a sufficient quantity of milk to make it into a paste, a few currants, a little spice, and grated bread. Lay this on puff paste like other cheesecakes, and bake. POTATO FLOUR : To Make. Wash and brush 15 lbs. of the most flouiy potatoes, and have ready a large panful of water, into which grate the potatoes. When all are done change the water; in three hours' time change it again, and wash the flour twice more ; then drain it on a silk tammy, and put it in the oven to dry. If you want the flour quickly put it in a stew- pan, which set on hot ashes, and sift it before you use it. The above quantity of potatoes will yield 2 lbs. of flour. POTATO-FLOUR SOUFFLfi. Make an infusion of any aromatic article you please ; then take a moderate-sized saucepan, into which put ^ lb. of sifted potato flour, and the same quantity of fresh butter; mix these together till they form a very good paste, and dilute it with nearly all of the infusion; add 1 lb. of powder sugar and a