[ 365 ] PUD FRI impunity, provided neither the juice nor the syrup be allowed to stand in them for any con- siderable time. It ought, therefore, to become a practice, the adoption of which we cannot too strongly urge, to have both the inner surface and the outer rim, extending two or three inches down the outer surface, covered with a coating of tin. The best pans for preserving are those of bell-metal, those of double block tin, or those of iron double-tinned. The two latter last a very long time, and are much cheaper than brass and copper. The tinning laid upon these two metals, however, wears out, and after a time the dangerous metal peeps through the white surface, often before it is perceived. If, there- fore, a preserving-pan is to be purchased, avoid both brass and copper, and give the preference either to the bell-metal, the block tin, or to the double-tinned iron. It may be urged that either of the dangerous metals might be double-tinned. True, but the tinning would wear out at last: double tinning only lasts some time longer, being in reality not two tiniiings, but merely one coating of tin of double thickness. See Clarifying. PRICKLY HEAT. This, which is prevalent in hot countries, is an eruption of small red pimples in different parts of the body, without an attendant fever; there are also pricking sen- sations in the skin and an intolerable itching. It generally departs, after a few weeks, in white scales. Those predisposed to this affection are such as are unaccustomed to the sun's direct rays. The cause is the too potent influence of heat. It may be known from the itch by never principally affecting the joints; nor does it, as the eruption of this latter affection, contain a watery humour. It always ceases when the tem- perature becomes mild. It has also uniformly a favourable termination. Vegetable diet, re- freshing breezes, forbearance in regard to exer- cise, and some diminution of the influence of the whole of the natural powers will be proper in urgent cases. Simple purgatives should be then also had recourse to. PROOF SPIRIT. This being frequently jnentioned, we had better explain that it is a mixture of two pints of rectified spirit of wine with one pint of water. Its specific gravity ought to be -920 PRUNE TART. Rub i lb. of prunes or raisins, and lay them at the bottom of a deep dish; make a custard of one quart of cream and the yolks of ten eggs; season with sugar, cinnamon, and a little lemon juice; cook it; plump some of the nicest prunes, and put them upon the top. Tamarinds or any dried fruit may be baked in the same way. A little apple pulp may be added to the prunes or custard. It is an excellent way of baking rhubarb and goose- berries, giving them plenty of sugar. PRUSSIC ACID. See Hydrocyanic Acid. PUDDING, DERBYSHIRE. Take one pint of milk and two table-spoonsful of flour; mix them by degrees, boil till it is thick, and set it by till cold; then add 3 ozs. of butter beaten to a cream, J lb. of fine sugar, a little salt, the rind of a lemon grated, the yolks of five, and the whites of three eggs , mix all thoroughly, put a paste round the dish, and bake it in a quick oven. It is very good cold. PUDDING, GERMAN. A pint of cream, two table-spoonsful of flour, the yolks of five eggs, 2 ozs of almonds beaten a little, the crumb of a French roll grated, sugar to your taste, the peels of two lemons grated or shred small, and I lb. of butter clarified, and put in cool. Pour it into buttered cups, and bake them as custards. When you turn them out pour over them melted butter, wine, and sugar. PUDDING, QUAKING. Scald a quart of cream ; when almost cold add to it four eggs well beaten, a spoonful and a half of flour, some nutmeg, and sugar; tie closely in a but- tered cloth, boil it an hour, and turn it out with care, for fear it should break. Melted butter, a little wine, and sugar for sauce. PUDDING, QUEEN'S. Slice some apples as for fritters ; butter a deep mould well, and put in it a layer of French roll cut very thin, and dipped in butter melted without flour or water; then place alayer of apples and sugar, with lemon- peel grated, and fill the mould in this way. If the apples require it add some juice of lemon, and brandy if you choose ; last of all, cover the mould before you put it into the oven. PUDDING, LIVER (Scotch). Parboil and grate 1 lb. of liver and 1 lb. of suet; soak ^ lb. of bread in a pint of cream or milk, and mix it with spices and sweet herbs; if eggs are to be used it may be more liquid : fill and cook them. Grits may be used instead of bread, or any other seasoning, as directed for Hog's Puddings, with cooked onions, and as much minced suet as liver; add the milk or cream, spices, and sweet herbs ; mix in the liver, and test it: if it is rather thin add an egg or two, or a few crumbs; if too thick, a little milk: test and fill. When pud- dings are thickened with bread they require more room to swell. PUDDING, TRANSPARENT. Put eight eggs well beaten into a stewpan, with | lb. of sugar pounded fine, i lb. of butter, and some nutmeg grated; set it on the fire, and keep constantly stirring till it thickens; then set it in a basin to cool; put a rich puff paste round the edge of a dish, pour in the pudding, and bake it in a moderate oven. It will cut light