T U R [5 botli internally and externally. The dose in- ternally may be from 15 to 30 drops, or more. TURMERIC. This is the root of Curcuma lonrja, a species of cucumber imported from the East Indies in tubers about the size of the little finger. Aromatic, tonic, discussive, and heating. Used especially in the jaundice and the itch. Dose, 1 to 2 drachms. Dyes a deep yellow, and is used as a seasoning in Indian cookery. Em- ployed in debilitated states of the stomach, intermittent fever, and dropsy. Considered by the native practitioners of India an excellent application in powder for cleansing foul ulcers : also used in dyeing. Formerly mu<;h used in cookery to give things a colour. Tinges the urine a deep yellow colour. White paper dyed by an alcoholic tincture of turmeric is a very sensitive test for alkalies. TURNIP SAUCE. Pare four turnips, and let them simmer in a little water until done, and the liquor is reduced; then rub them through a sieve, add to them a little bechamel, and cut some more turnips in shapes as for haricot; simmer them also the same as for the first, and then add them to the others. TURNIP SOUP. Be careful in choosing your turnips that they are not in the least spongy; take twelve, and cut them about an inch square ; then cut them into the form of a barrel, and put them as you do them in a basin of ■water. While they are preparing set Jib. of butter on the fire in a shallow stewpan to claiify. When the turnips are ready, and drained from the water, pat them in the butter, and fry them of a fine brown colour; then put them on a sieve to drain. After this put them into a soup pot, with a little sugar and salt, and fill it up with consomme ; set it by the stove to boil gently, skim it well, and clarify it the same as for other soups. It will be a great addition to put in at first, with the turnips, a few heads of celery cut round and blanched. Bi'ead must be put in this as well as other clear soups made with vegetables. TURNIP TOPS. This vegetable is in season during the early part of the spring. They should be very young, and all stalks and withered leaves taken oif. Turnip tops require a great deal of water to boil them. Put in some salt, and serve them like spinach. TURNIP TOPS, PICKLED. Choose them young, pick off all the stalks and withered leaves, put them into boiling water, set them on the fire, and when tender press out all the water, and leave them to cool; then put them into the jar, with some salt, and cover them with the best vinegar. TURNIPS : To Mash. Split them once, or even twice, should they be large. After they are pared boil them very till tender, and press the water thoroughly from them with a couple of trenchers, or with the back of a large plate and one trencher. To insure their being free from lumps it is better to pass them through a cullender or coarse hair sieve with a wooden spoon, though, when quite young, they may be worked sufficiently smooth without this. Put them into a clean saucepan, and stir them constantly over a gentle fire for some minutes, that they may be very dry ; then add some salt, a bit of fresh butter, and a little cream, or, in lieu of this, new milk. We would also recom- mend a seasoning of white or Cayenne pepper when appearance and fashion are not par- ticularly regarded. Continue to simmer and to stir five or six minutes longer, or until they have quite absorbed all the liquid which has been poured to them. Serve them always as hot as possible. This is an excellent receipt. TURNIPS, BOILED (1). Pare them thicklj% and when boiled squeeze them well to thoroughly drain them from the water; mash them till smooth, beat them with a little cream, and add a piece of butter, a little Hour, pepper, and salt. TURNIPS, BOILED (2). Pare entirely from the rind, and either split the turnips once or leave; throw them into boiling water slightly salted, and keep them closely stopped from smoke or dust until quite tender. When small or young they will be done in fifteen or twenty minutes. At their full growth they will re- quire from three quarters of an hour to a full hour, or more, of gentle boiling. After they have become holey and woolly they are not worth dressing in any way. When boiled in their skins, and pared afterwards, they are said to be of better flavour, and much less watery than when cooked in the usual way. TURNOVER. Make a hot crust as for raised pies, allowing a little more butter; roll it out quickly, and cut it in different forms ; lay apples stewed as for sauce, rhubarb, or scalded gooseberries in the crust, moist sugar, add to the apples a little lemon-peel or cinnamon, double up the paste, and pinch the edges: bake in a moderate oven. Turnovers or pasties may be made in the same way with any kind of solid preserves or jam. TURPENTINE {see Tar) has been generally distinguished into common turpenline, Strasburgh turpentine, Venice turpentine, &c. In the shops, however, those usually known are common, or horse, Venice, and Chio turpentine. Horse turpentine is also called by the dealers in turpentine strained turpentine. It is of a yellowish white colour, somewhat opaque, and of the consistence of honey. It is sold as being merely the turpentine obtained from the pine, freed from impurities; but there is reason