[ 181 ] M AL MAL drimk in pulmonary complaints, or bruiseJ, boiled, and formed into poultices and fomenta- tions. By confectioners it is made into a lozenge, under the name of pate de guimauve. The whole plant abounds in fibre, mucilage, starch, and saccharine matter. A principle was discovered in the root by M. Bacon, which has been found to be identical with asparagin. The marsh-mallow is used in the East as an article of'food, to which, in seasons of scarcity, even the wealthy are compelled to resort. It is called molocliia. Many of the poorer inha- bitants of Syria, especially the Fellahs, the Greeks, and the Armenians, subsist fof weeks on herbs, of which the marsh-mallow is one of the most common. When boiled first, and then fried with onions and butter, they are said to form a palatable dish ; and in times of great scarcity, consequent upon the failure of the crops, all classes may be seen striving with eagerness to obtain the much-desired plant, which fortunately grows in great abundance. In Job XXX. 3, 4, we read, " Fof want and famine they were solitary, fleeing into the wil- derness in former time desolate and waste, who cut up mallows by the bushes." MALLOWS, SYRUP OF. Take i lb. of mallows root, and having scraped and washed it well, cut it into small pieces, which set on the fire with three pints of water. When suffi- ciently boiled the water will be glutinous; strain off the decoction, and add to it 4 lbs. of sugar; clarify it in the same manner as capillaire, boil it to lisse, run it through a jelly bag, and when cold bottle it. MALMSEY. Malmsey wine took its name from Malvasia, a town in the Morea, whence the grape for it was originally obtained, but which . does not now produce any good wine; and Malmsey Madeira wine is a luscious, sweet beverage, made from over-ripe grapes grown in a rocky part of Madeira, containing only 16 4 per cent, of alcohol, imported in very small quantities into Britain, and is used principally as a liqueur or at dessert. MALT. {See Beewing.) Malt is made from barley soaked in water till it turns reddish, then drained, and spread from one to two feet thick on a floor, where it heats, and emits the root or spike. It is then spread thinner for two or three days, again heaped up until it heats, and finally dried on a kiln, and the roots separated by screening. Five pounds of spring barley produce about 4 lbs. of malt. Malt is used to make an alterative analeptic infusion, and its decoction is fermented to form beer or ale. In the sweating process of malting, after four days, a thermometer in it rises 10° above the atmosphere—an efi^ect of theatpmic naotion from the decomposition of the parts. While sprouting the heat proceeds rapidly, the gluten and the mucilage are abstracted from the root, and the kernel becomes mealy. Kiln drying stops the germination, and at 119° produces white malt, at 134° amber, at 148° brown, at 171° coffee colour, and at 176° black. In mash- ing the pale permits less heat in the liquor than higher colours. Barley in malting loses one-fifth of its first weight. The grains of 100 lbs. of raw grain, after malting and brewing, weigh 55 lbs., and of 100 lbs. of malt 54 lbs. Wort evaporated gives a treacle-like residuum of specific gravity 1'552. If 60 bushels of malt yield 23J barrels of worts, specific gravity 10683, and they are boiled down to 19f barrels, or a sixth, the specific gravity is LOBQ. If 72 bushels yield 15 barrels, specific gravity 1 072, and it is boiled to 13, the specific gravity is 1-106. Good ale requires 1 lb. of hops to a bushel of malt, and weaker but | lb. Too long boiling evaporates the aroma of the hops. Every kind of grain w'ill make beer if half germinated, so as to acquire the saccharine quality; and it may be germinated either by burying it, or by water and heat, in the manner of malting. A grain of barley weighs two-thirds of a grain (0-681°), and its cubic contents are the 500th of a cubic inch (0 00217). Barley-corns yield 5 husk, 19 meal, and 3 volatile matter. The mean length of various kinds is 0 3385 of an inch, or 20 to 7 inches ; but when our long measure was settled it was taken as 0-3333, or 3 to the inch. A bushel weighs from 50 lbs. to 501 lbs. Worts of 1*07 specific gravity give ale of 1 0285, with 25 lbs. of saccharine ; of 1-08, ale of 103, with 24-3 lbs.; of 1-09, ale of 1-042, with 38 lbs.; of 1-1, ale of 1 042, with 36 lbs. Porter wort is 1-0645, and the porter 1-015. Brown stout TOl. About one-fourth of ale evaporates in cooling from 200° to 520°. Patent malt is malt kept heated to 130° until it acquires a dark chocolate colour, and is then used to colour beer : 1 lb. with 79 lbs. of pale malt gives the colour and flavour of porter. MALT SPIRITS. These may be highly improved by putting 3 J ozs. of finely powdered charcoal and ozs. of ground rice into a quart of spirits, and letting it stand fifteen days, fre- q^uently shaking it; then let the liquor be strained, and it will be found equal to brandy. MALT VINEGAR. Put ten gallons of^ boiling water into a large tub, and stir till it cools a little; then add the malt (two-thirds