[ 121 ] LAM LAM intended to afford the means of adjusting any candle, large or small, to a large candlestick, hj having a semicircular piece of brass, which is made to press against one side of the candle in the socket. A simpler contrivance for the same object consists of a pair of wedges, placed one on each side of the lower end of the candle. Another little piece of apparatus consists of a wire frame for supporting a shade, and which is itself supported by having a sort of circular spring hoop, which clasps the candle. Oil Lamps. One of the difficulties which have lessened the usefulness of common oil lamps is the tendency of the oil to thicken in cold weather; while another lies in the imper- fection of the means for keeping the wick well nloistened with oil up to the verge of the flame. Both of these matters have enga^fed attention within the last few years. Dr. Ure remarks, the great cost of light from wax, spermaceti, and even stearic candles, and also the nuisance of the light from tallow ones, have led to the invention of an endless variety of lamps, of which the best hitherto known is undoubtedly the mechanical or Carcel lamp, so generally used by the opulent families in Paris. In this lamp the oil is raised through tubes by clock- work, so as continually to overflow at the bottom of the burning wick, thus keeping it thoroughly soaked, while the excess of the oil drops back into the cistern below. There is a lamp called the meteor lamp, having some of the properties of the Carcel, but in- tended to burn rape oil. The internal arrange- ments of this lamp are curious and complicated. The lower part of the pedestal consists of a reservoir for containing the oil; and in this reservoir is a kind of piston or plunger, worked up and down by a nut and screw frona the out- side ; the rising of this piston occasions the pressure or tightening of a coiled spring, and this pressure causes the oil to be forced up a central tube towards the flame. The admisr sion and regulation of the oil to the lamp, the adjustment of the wick, the arrangement of the air holes for admitting draught, and of the gallery which supports the glass chimney, are all of an intricate kind, and, whatever may be their efficiency while in good order, would rea- der the repair, in case of damage, a serious matter. One of the modes adopted for maintaining the oil in a liquid state is by the use of a palm constructed by Mr. Parker, in which the oil is used in a hot state. At a small distance around the tube which contains the wick is another tube, and the space between the two tubes, of capacity sufficient to hold a pint, constitutes the reservoir for the oil. The oil is thus so near the flame that it speedily becomes warm, by which its facility of burning is much increased. A slide-valve is opened to allow the oil to descend from the reservoir to the wick. The intensity of the flame is modified by raising or lowering a bell-mouthed glass chimney by means of rackwork mechanism. In a series of expe- riments on the illuminating powers of different kinds of lamps and candles Dr. Ure found that the hot-oil lamp, with a given quantity of oil, gave a brighter light than any other form of lamp ; or, the light being equal in intensity, the hot-oil lamp was the most economical. This corroborates, as far as it goes, the remarkable results obtained by the hot-blast in the iron manufacture. Argand's principle of the mode of admitting air to act on the wick has been the one most gene- rally followed since his time, and many of the subsequent inventions have had relation merely to some modification of this arrangement. The solar lamp, one of the modern kinds, has a provision for sending up air through the interior of the wick, as in the Argand ; but the action of the air on the exterior of the wick is made more decided. The wick passes through a hole in the centre of a cap or cone, and the air is ad- mitted so as to act on the flame close to this hole, and in a horizontal direction, while the flame is yet small ; so that the exposure of the gaseous products to the air is much more inti- mate than in the ordinary lamps, and the com- bustion more complete. Many improvements have been introduced from time to time ; but the solar lamp remains in principle an Argand, with the addition of a cap or cone to deflect the ex- ternal air more directly towards the flame. Many of the modern variations in lamps and in gas burners have had relation to this circum- stance of admitting the external air to act at the points, and in the quantity, found best for the maintenance of a clear flame. Spirit Lamps. In chemical experiments the spirit lamp has long been a valuable piece of apparatus ; but the use of spirit instead of oil as a food for lamps intended for domestic purposes is a modern innovation, and has led to much mechanical ingenuity in the construction of the apparatus. The term " spirit'' is rather a vague one, since there are many kinds of spirit which are inflammable enough to be used for this purpose; but the kind here alluded to is the spirit of tur- pentine, or that liquid which is distilled from common turpentine by being separated from the resin which is a component ingredient in the last-named substance. When brought to its purest state this spirit is called by the French chemists camphine;" and hence the name for some of the modern spirit lamps. Turpentine being a very abundant produce of the American