OME OME [ 268 ] quite thick; then add half a dozen eggs, and fry the omelet; but observe that it will require rather more time than usual. OMELET (The Dauphine's). Having made one or two thin omelets without any seasoning, lay them on a dish, and spread over them some pistachio cream, and cherry and apricot mar- malade ; roll them up, and cut them into small pieces, each of which inclose in almond paste; strew powder sugar over them, and glaze with a salamander. OMELET, FARMER'S. Break the number of eggs you think necessary for the size of the omelet, beat them up with chopped parsley, shallots, sorrel, pepper, and salt, and fry as usual. When done put a piece of fried bread on it, roll the omelet round, and serve it. OMELET FRITTERS. Make two or three thin omelets, adding a little sweet basil to the usual ingredients ; cut them into small pieces, and roll them in the form of olives. When cold dip them into batter, or inclose them in puff paste. Fry, and serve them with fried parsley. OMELET GLACfi. Whip up some fresh eggs with a small quantity of salt, a little candied lemon-peel, and pounded macaroons ; beat them together well, and then fry as usual; sprinkle the omelet with sugar, and serve. OMELET, ITALIAN. Break your eggs as usual, add salt, pepper, shred parsley, cream, and olive oil. Beat these ingredients well, and make three or four omelets of them—thin, but not too dry. Cut some anchovies into thin slips, which lay on each of the omelets, placing the latter one on the other; cement them together, and when cold, having beaten up two eggs, dip in the omelets; bread and fry them to a nice colour. OMELET WITH KIDNEY OF VEAL. To eight well-beaten eggs add a little salt, and part of a cold roasted kidney of veal finely minced; season with pepper and a little more salt; melt in a frying-pan 1^ oz. of butter, and pour in the omelet; fry it gently, and keep the middle part moist. When done roll it equally on a knife, and serve it very hot. OMELET AU NATUREL. Break eight or ten eggs into a pan, add pepper, salt, and a spoonful of cold water, and beat them up with a whisk. In the meantime put some fresh butter into a frying-pan, and when it is quite melted and nearly boiling put in the eggs, &c., with a skimmer. As the omelet is frying take up the edges, that they may be properly done. When cooked double it, and serve very hot. OMELET, OYSTER. Beard and parboil twelve or sixteen oysters, seasoning them with a few peppercorns; strain and chop them. Beat well sLx eggs, parboil and mince a little parsley, mix the whole together, and season with' a little nutmeg, salt, and a table-spoonful of mushroom catsup. Fry it lightly in 3 ozs. of butter, and hold it for a minute or two before the fire. OMELET, POTATO. Beat six eggs, leaving out two whites, and have ready two table- spoonsful of potato, boiled and mashed very finely , put it to the eggs, with a table-spoonful of fine bread crumbs, a little salt, pepper, and about 1^ oz. of butter broken into small pieces. Melt a little butter into a clean frying-pan, pour in the batter, and fry it a nice light brown ; or it may be baked in a flat dish in a quick oven. Serve it with gravy in a boat. OMELET SANDWICHES. Make a light hatter by beating up four eggs with two table- spoonsful of water, and adding some bread crumbs; season with pepper and salt, and fry it in small fritters about the size of a crown piece. When they are cold put them between bread and butter with mustard. OMELET SOUFFLE. Break six eggs, and separate the whites from the yolks. To the latter put four dessert-spoonsful of powder sugar, and the rind of a lemon chopped ex- ceedingly small; mix them well, whip the whites as if for biscuits, and add them to the rest. Put i lb. of butter into a frying-pan over a brisk fire, and as soon as it is completely melted pour in the above ; stir it up, that the butter may be thoroughly incorporated with the omelet, and when that is the case strain it into a buttered dish, which place on hot ashes; strew powder sugar over, and colour the top carefully with a salamander. OMELET SOUFFLE IN A MOULD. Break six fine eggs, separate the whites and yolks, and put to the latter three spoonsful of powder sugar, four crushed macaroons, a spoon- ful of potato flour, and a little crisped orange flower in powder ; stir them together well, whip the whites to a froth, mix them with the yolks, and pour the whole into a buttered mould, but do not fill it. Set it in a moderate oven the same as for biscuits. When done turn it out on a dish and serve it. This omelet should be of a clear colour, and shake like a jelly. OMELET, SWEET To a gill of cream or good milk put four well-beaten eggs, sugar, nut- meg or cinnamon, and a small pinch of salt. Fry the omelet a nice light brown on a slow fire, and sift fine sugar over. OMELET WITH SWEETMEATS. Make an omelet with nine eggs. When quite done spread over it any kind of sweetmeats you may think proper; roll it up in the form of a muff, and strew powder sugar over it; make a skewer quite hot, run it through, and fry it.