[ 400 ] SPI SPI the spiced bread from getting thinner at tbe edges ; dip a brush in some milk, rub the sur- face of the spiced bread with it, and put it into a raodei'ate oven till well risen, and of a brownish colour. Whilst it is baking blanch a few almonds, and split them ; cut some candied lemon or orange-peel into very thin slices, and as soon as the spiced bread is taken from the oven wash it over with a decoction of isinglass and beer, and immediately decorate it with the almonds, &c. SPICES. {See Cloves, &c.) The following are compounds well known by cooks, and em- ployed as their names point out:— Ragout Spice. Salt, 1 lb.; flour of mustard, black pepper, grated lemon-peel, of each i lb.; allspice, ginger, nutmeg, of each 2 drachms ; Cayenne pepper, 2 ozs. Mix. Sausage Spice. Black pepper, 5 lbs.; cloves, nutmegs, of each lb. ; ginger, lbs.' ani- seed, coriander seed, of each ^ lb. Mix. Savouey Spice. Cloves, mace, nutmegs, pepper, salt, of each 1 lb. Mix. Sweet Spice. Cloves, mace, nutmegs, cinna- mon, sugar, of each I lb. Mix. SPINACH: To Boil. Spinach is some- times exceedingly gritty. It must, therefore, be thoroughly picked and washed in several waters ; tlien put it into a large saucepan of boiling water, with plenty of salt in it; let it boil till done, take it out, put it into a cullender, squeeze it to drain it from the water, then cut it in squares, lay it on a dish, and serve it to table. SPITSTACH FRITTERS. Boil some spinach thoroughly; drain, mince, and add to it some grated bread, nutmeg, ginger, and cinnamon (all pounded), and as much cream or yolks and whites of eggs as will make it the consistence of batter; mix in a few currants previously scalded, and drop the batter into a frying-pan on boiling lard. As soon as they rise take them out, di-ain, and sei-ve them. SPINACH PUDDING. Pick and well wash a quarter of a peck of spinach, and boil it until quite tender. A little salt should be put into the water it is boiled in, and the saucepan must be kept closely covered. When boiled put it in a sieve to drain, and then cut it small; beat up six eggs, and mix them with half a pint of cream or milk, a stale roll grated very finely, a little grated nutmeg, and J lb. of melted butter; stir all well together, put it into the saucepan the spinach was stewed in, and keep stirring it till it begins to thicken ; then wet a pudding cloth, flour it well, put in the mixture, tie it up, and boil for an hour ; turn it out on a dish, pour over it melted butter, with a little Seville orange juice and sugar mixed in it, and sefve. SPINACH PUFFS. Take as much boiled spinach as is equal to four eggs, squeeze it quite dry, shred it small, and add half the quantity of powder sugar, the same of butter, four spoonsful of cream, the yolks of four hard- boiled eggs, and 2 ozs. of citron, the latter two minced; season with beaten cinnamon and grated nutmeg, put them all into a stewpan to simmer a little while, and then set them by to cool. Make a paste with the yolks of four eggs, four spoonsful of milk, some flour, a pinch of salt, and the same of sugar; roll it out very thin, cut it into pieces three or four inches square, and upon each lay a spoonful of spinach as above; turn the paste over, and pinch the edges round neatly in the form of a semicircle. These puffs may be boiled a quarter of an hour, and served with grated bread and Parmesan cheese strewed over them, or fried in boiling lard, and sent to table with powder sugar over. SPINACH TART. Take some spinach, and clean it thoroughly, as it is apt to be gritty; •pick and scald it, and give it a few turns in a little butter, with salt and nutmeg; mix the spinach with frangipane, and finish the tart like that of fi-angipane. SPINACH TOASTS. Boil some spinach for a quarter of an hour, then squeeze out all the water, chop it small, and put it into a mortar, with three or four spoonsful of apple marmalade, the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, and three raw eggs, two biscuits soaked in cream, sugar, and a pinch of salt; pound all these together to a paste, put it into a dish, and mix it with a few dry currants and three or four spoonsful of melted butter. Cut some slices of bread half an inch thick, four inches long, and two broad; toast them nicely, spread the spinach, &c., over them to the thickness of half an inch, and wash each over with white of egg; place the toasts on a baking tin well buttered, and bake them for half an hour. When done grate nutmeg and squeeze orange juice over them, and serve. SPINE. [See Curvature of the Spixe.) We may add to what we have already stated that the following exercises have been found highly beneficial in checking curvature, and in strengthening the muscles of the back:— ]. Prolonged inspirations, the patient sitting. 2. Prolonged inspirations, the patient standing, the arms fixed. 3. The same exercise, the arms hanging down. 4. The same, the arms extended horizontally. 5. The same, the arms fixed to a horizontal pole. 6. Deep inspiration, and counting a certain number without drawing the breath. 7. Movement of the feet on the ground, the patient sitting. 8. Deep inspira- tion, the patient lying on the left side, and lean-