PACT [ 289 } 0 YS a little parsley, shred very finely, may be put into the Batter. OYSTERS, BROILED. Take two dozen oysters from their shells, put them with their own liquor into a saucepan, just blanch them, and then take away the water ; put in a piece of butter, a pinch of parsley, the same of shallots (both shred), and toss them in this, but do not let them boil; then replace them in their shells, with a little lemon juice and raspings; set them on the gridiron, and when they broil take them off and serve. OYSTERS, ESSENCE OF. Take fresh Milton oysters, wash them in their own liquor, skin and pound the fish in a marble mortar. To one pint of oysters add a pint of sherry, and boil them, adding ] oz. of salt, 2 drachms of powdered mace, and 1 drachm of Cayenne. Boil all up again, skim it, rub it through a sieve, and when cold bottle it off, taking care that it is corked well and sealed down. This gives an agreeable flavour to white sauces and made dishes. By adding a glass of brandy to the essence it will keep when oysters are out of season. OYSTERS, OMELET OF. Chop fine a quarter of a hundred of the whites of cooked oysters, beat ten eggs, and season with mace, salt, pepper, and finely shred parsley; mix in the oysters, and fry slowly a nice brown. OYSTERS, STEWED. Open and take the liquor from them, then cleanse them from the grit, strain the liquor, and add the oysters, with a bit of mace and lemon-peel, and a few grains of ivhite pepper. Simmer them very gently, add a little cream, and a bit of butter mixed with flour. Serve with toasted sippets round the dish. OYSTERS EN SURTOUT. Scald the oysters in their own liquor, drain, and give them a few turns over the fire in a little butter, shred parsley, shallots, pepper, and a few yolks of eggs ; then chop up the oysters, and mix them with bread crumbs soaked in cream, shallots, mushrooms, parsley (all shred small), yolks of eggs, pepper, and salt. Fill some scallops with this fai'ce, cover them with bread crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, and put them into the oven for a quarter of an hour. P. PACKING. In packing clothes it may be laid down as a rule that, the flatter they are laid, the greater is the quantity that can be got into a box. In packing brittle goods hay is the best material to interpose between them, and a very small quantity so interposed is sufficient, pro- vided no two articles touch in any of their parts, VOL. II. and they are packed so tightly that there can be no shifting. Hay-bands are the best protection to wooden furniture if wrapped tightly round it, and a bast mat can be fastened over the whole article. The following judicious directions have been published by the Pomological Society:— Fruit should be protected against injury from pressure by being packed in boxes or stout baskets : very light baskets and frails are frequently used, and damage more or less is invariably the result. Against injury from shaking or turning over it should be guarded, firstly, by using cases of moderate dimensions in every direction, or larger cases with partitions in them, that there may not be too great a bulk to move about within the package; secondly, by laying the separate articles so closely and compactly together, that they shall just keep each other steady without crushing. This last is, perhaps, the most im- portant matter of all: no fruit suffers so much as that which is loosely packed. Common sense, of course, dictates that, in packing soft and solid fruits in the same case, the latter should be laid in the bottom. If, however, the box is turned upside down on its journey, this arrangement becomes valueless; and, to guard against such casualties, horizontal partitions of thin deal should be dropped into the box between layers of soft and solid fruit, and secured in their position by nailing or otherwise. Fruit is also frequently damaged in flavour by being packed in moss, brown paper, straw or hay chaff, or other substances which impart their aroma and flavour to all delicate and absorbent fruits which are surrounded by them. If such materials are used the fruit should first be separately inclosed in tissue, cap, or writing paper, cotton wool, leaves, or other scentless material. The bloom of certain fniits is best preserved if they are packed in young nettle tops partially dried. Stout cartridge paper is also excellent for the purpose, as it keeps them steady, without pressure upon more than a small portion of their surface, and its stiffness prevents crushing. Pine-apples travel with least injury to the crown if folded up in a piece of stout cartridge paper, and firmly, but not tightly secured by matting. Grapes carry best if tied down to the bottom of a shallow box, in the manner first used by Mr. Fleming, of Trentham, at the London exhibitions. The next best method is to inclose each bunch separately in a piece of stout car- tridge paper, folding it up somewhat like a grocer's pound pacltage of sugar, and placing them as close together in a box as they will lio without crushing. u