11 ou [ 32 1 fTOTT cannot Le procured eveiy or every other day it is well, wliere much is consumed, to sprinkle five or six pounds with a little salt, and press it closely down in a basin or stone pan, which prevents its Lecoming rancid ; and it is just as good for pastry, melting, and toast, and also for bread and butter, if washed through two or three waters. May is a good time for buying last years cheese ; it is then in good condition. New cheese is wasteful, and lias not attained its full flavour. During the summer months meat requires constant attention. Every day it should be examined to remove fly-blows, if any ; it should be carefully wiped diy under flaps and in all the little crevices, and shinny bits and kernels should be cut off, for they are the first to taint. Under the flap of a leg of mutton there is a skin, ■which, in hot weather, soon assumes a yellow tinge ; remove it, and with care a leg of mutton may be kept several days in the hottest weather. In a rump of beef, also, there is a long vein visible, at the root of which, and buried deep, is a kernel, which, if not taken out, will in hot weather taint the whole joint. Country butchers often omit to remove it. When meat is pur- chased for salting do not allow the butcher to send it any distance in the heat of the day ; you can never be certain of its taking the salt if it has been heated. If, however, there is no alternative, throw it into a tub of cold water for a few hours, then wipe it dry, and examine it well before salting. It should be sprinkled with salt to extract the blood the first day ; on the next day be wiped with a clean cloth; and in warm weather the first brine must be thrown away, but in cold it may be boiled, and all impurity be skimmed off; and then the meat may be regularly salted the second day. Canvas lids should be placed over salting tubs, to admit air and exclude flies, which are more destructive to salting meat than to fresh. Care must be taken to secure bacon and hams from the fly, which is very destructive to them. The best method of preserving hams is by putting them into coarse calico or canvas bags : paper is apt to break in damp weather. Herbs for kitchen use and camomile blos- soms should be cut and dried, but not in the summer. Summer is also the best time for laying in a store of soap : if it is cut into good-sized pieces and laid on shelves it will liarden. HOUSEKEEPER. Trustworthiness is an essential quality in a housekeejjer; but if she be not as vigilant as she is honest she can- not discharge lier duty well. As she is the deputy of her mistress she should endeavour to regard eveiything around her with the keen- ness and interest of a principal, rather than with the indifference of a servant. She should be constantly on the alert in observing and detecting anything wrong in the conduct of those under her. It is a part of her duty to see that each fulfils his or her share of the household employments without appealing U the heads of the family, unless she finds hei authority insufficient to check abuses and to keep the whole in order. She should be a good accountant, having books in which she may note down strictly all the current expenses of the house, and which should be cast up weekly in order to show them to her lady, and have them settled at a time con- venient to her. She should have a book, also, in which those articles of housekeejiing that are bi'ought into the house, and not immediately paid for, should be entered. It is a satisfaction to a master and mistress that this book should be ready to compare with the accounts sent by the tradesmen. It is her province to have the charge of the store-room, with the preserves, pickles, and con- fectioneiy, and to see that no waste takes place in anything intrusted to her. A clever house- keeper will be able to judge of the consumption which, from the size of the family she super- intends, will necessarily take place in each article; and when that quantity is exceeded she will instantly try to discover the cause, and to rectify it if it proceeds from any waste or care- lessness of those under her superintendence. It is absolutely necessary that she should understand the art of cooking, and everything connected with it. It is true there are houses in which professed cooks are kept; but where this is not the case it is necessary that the housekeeper should be well qualified to super- intend the whole business of the kitchen. In most places the housekeeper has to prepare all the confectionery, and how far she may be re- quired to take an active part in the cooking must depend on the qualifications of the cook under her. The housemaids, laundress, and dairymaid should also be under her eye, so that each should feel aware that her conduct is observed. Even if you should be perfectly satisfied that your housekeeper is a woman of great integrity you will still find it desirable to fix your eye constantly upon her, that her vigilance and integrity may not relax for want of this incite- ment. Symptoms of neglect on her part should never be overlooked, as they would tend to throw the whole ho\ise into confusion and irregular habits.—[Mrs. Parkes' Domestic Duties.) HOUSELEEK [Sempervimmi tectorum). The juice, either by itself or mixed with a little cream, is a cooling application for burns, scalds, erysipelas, shingles, and stings and bites of insects.