ONI I 269 ] OME OMELET, VEGETABLE. Make a rich ragout of all sorts of vegetables which may be in season, half of which put to a dozen eggs beat them together, and fry your omelet as usual. When done pour the remainder of the ragout over, and serve. OMELETS, AND VARIOUS WAYS OF DRESSING EGGS. There is no dish which may be considered as coming under the denomi- nation of a made dish of the second order which is so generally eaten, if good, as an omelet, and no one is so often badly dressed. It is a very faithful assistant in the construction of a dinner. When you are taken by surprise, and wish to make an appearance beyond what is provided for the every-day dinner, a little portable soup melted down, with some zest and a few vege- tables, will make a good broth. A pot of stewed veal warmed up, an omelet, and some apple or lemon fritters, can all be got ready at ten minutes' notice, and, with the original foundation of a leg of mutton or a piece of beef, will make up a very good dinner when company un- expectedly ariives in tlie country. The great merit of an omelet is that it should not be burned, greasy, or too much done. If too much of the white of the eggs is left in, no art can prevent its being hard if it is done. To dress the omelet the fire ought not to be too hot, as it is an object to have the substance heated without much browning the outside. One of the great errors in cooking an omelet is that it is too thin ; consequently, instead of feel- ing full and moist in the mouth, the substance is sometimes little better than a piece of fi'ied leather. To get the omelet thick is one of the great objects. With regard to the flavours to be introduced, these are inlitiite. That which is most common, however, is the best, viz., finely chopped parsley, chives, and onions, or shallots. However, one made of a mixture of tarragon, chervil, and parsley is a very delicate variety, omitting or adding the onions or chives. Of the meat flavours the veal kidney is the most delicate, and is the most admired by the French. This should be cut into dice, and should be boiled before it is added. In the same manner ham and anchovies shred small, or tongue, will make a very delicately flavoured dish. The objection to an omelet is that it is too rich, which makes it advisable to eat but a small quantity. An addition of finely mashed potatoes, about two table-spoonsful to an omelet of six eggs, will much lighten it. Omelets are often served with rich gravy; but, as a general principle, no substance which has been fried should be served in gravy, but accompanied by it, or what ought to eat dry and crisp becomes eodden and flat. In compounding the gravy great care should be taken that the flavour does not overcome that of the omelet—a thing too little attended to. A fine gravy, with a flavouring of sweet herbs and onions, we think the best. Some add a few drops of tarragon vinegar; but this is to be done only with great care. Gravies to omelets are, in general, thickened. This should never be done with flour. Potato starch or arrowroot is the best. Omelets should be fried in a small frying- pan made for that purpose, with a little butter. The omelet's great merit is to be thick, so as not to taste of the outside ; therefore use only half the number of whites that you do of yolks of eggs. Every care must be taken in frying, even at the risk of not having it quite set in the middle. An omelet, which has so much vogue abroad, is here, in general, like a thin, doubled-up piece of leather, and harder than soft leather sometimes. The fact is, as much care ought to be bestowed in the frying as should be taken in poaching an egg. A salamander is necessary to those who would have the top brown ; but the kitchen shovel may be sub- stituted for it. The receipt No. 1 is the basis of all omelets, of which an endless variety may be made by taking, instead of the parsley or shallots, a portion of sweet herbs, or any of the articles used for making forcemeats, or any of the forcemeats. Omelets are called by the name of what is added to flavour them—a ham or tongue omelet, an anchovy or veal-kidney omelet, &c. These are prepared exactly in the same way as in the first receipt, leaving out the parsley and shallots, mincing the ham or kidney very finely, &c., and adding that in the place of them, and then pouring over them all sorts of thickened gravies, sauces, &c. ONION CULLIS. Put some sliced onions into a pan with a little butter, set it on a brisk fire, and when brown add two spoonsful of flour; keep it stirring, put to it some broth, a glass of white wine, two cloves, a bay leaf, thyme, and basil; let it boil for an hour, skim and rub it through a sieve, and season according to your taste. ONION OMELET. Cut some very white onions into slices, and give them a few turns over the fire. When nearly done moisten them with cream, and season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Mix them with half a dozen eggs ; beat the whole up well, and fry the omelet either in oil or butter. ONION SAUCE (1). Peel some onions, boil them in milk and water, and put a turnip with them into the pot; change the water twice, and pulp them through a cullender, or chop them; then put them into a saucepan.