[ 186 ] MAK MAR ■work them up together with a large wooden spatula, rather sharp at the bottom. Be very careful that none of the paste adheres to the pan. The consequence of such neglect would he that the marchpane would be spotted with yellow, and would smell unpleasantly. Whilst working it up, the paste, which when put in was tolerably firm, will become rather liquid, and a great deal of vapour may be observed. The first is caused by the sugar being dissolved by the heat and moisture; the second by the evapora- tion of the water. Continue to stir and work it up in this manner without ceasing for two hours, and if, at the end of that time, you can touch the paste without its adhering to your fingers, it is sufficiently dried, in which case remove it all to one side of the pan, clean the bottom and side of the other, and sprinlde it well with flour; then put the paste to that part, clean and sprinkle the other side also; then take the pan by both bandies, and move it round and round, so that the paste may all unite together. As soon as it has done so put it into a sheet of paper, or, if you want to use it immediately, on a well-floured table. This paste, if the almonds be well pounded, and then thoroughly dried, will keep good for six months. If these two precautions are not properly attended to it will become sour in ten days. MARCHPANE, ROYAL. Take lib. of sweet almonds, blanch and throw them into cold water, drain and pound them, moistening them with orange-flower and plain water, but take care not to put too much at once. The almonds being reduced to a paste, put them into a preserving-pan, with ^ lb. of powder sugar; set the pan on a moderate fire to dry the paste, which will be sufficiently so if, when you touch it, it no longer sticks to your finger; then take it out, and place it on a plate or wafer paper previously sprinkled with sugar. As soon as it is cold cut it in pieces, which roll in your hand to the size of your little finger; form them into rings, and lay them on U'on gratings ; glaze, and put them into a brisk oven to colour. The above paste may also be employed as follows :— Roll it out and cut it in half; spread over one piece apricot marmalade, or any other pre- serve you please; cover it with the other piece, cut it into lozenges, crescents, &c., accord- ing to your fancy, and lay them on the grating as above; glaze, and colour them in a quick oven. MARIGOLD {Calendula officinalis). The dried flowers are now sometimes used in soups. Formerly they were'used in medicine, and be- lieved to promote perspiration. MARIGOLD CHEESE: To Make. Pick the best coloured and freshest leaves you can get, pound them in a mortar, and strain out the juice, which must be put into milk at the same time with the rennet, and both stirred together. The milk being set, and the curd come, break it as gently and equally as you can; then put it into the vat, press it with a moderate weight, and have holes at the bottom to let out the whey. MARINE CEMENT, or Glue. Dissolve ^oz. of caoutchouc and loz. of shellac sepa- rately in no more naphtha than is just sufficient to make a thick glue. Mix them together. It forms a very strong cement for wood, and is quite unsoftened by water. MARJORAM CONSERVE. Take the tops and tenderest part of sweet marjoram, which bruise well in a wooden mortar or howl; take double its weight of fine sugar, boil it with marjoram water till it is as thick as syrup, and then put in the beaten marjoram. MARJORAM, ESSENCE OF. Take some marjoram, pick off the leaves, and lay them to dry in a warm place for about a couple of hours; then take a large-mouthed bottle, and f;ut the leaves into it; let the bottle be filled with them, pour upon them wine, brandy, proof spirit, or vinegar, and let them steep for fourteen days. MARJORAM, SWEET: To Preserve. Beat up very well the white of an egg, and then finely beat and sift some double-refined sugar; take some marjoram, rub it on a glass that is quite clean, and lay it in the form of the glass. So do it with the egg, then sear it with the sugar on it, and lay it on paper to dry. MARKETING. The following hints are for guidance in purchasing provisions. We are indebted for them to the works of Mr. Rozea, "Magazine of Domestic Economy," and Mrs. Parkes. Bacon should have a thin rind. The fat should be firm, and inclined to a reddish colom"; and the lean should firmly adhere to the bone, and have no yellow streaks in it. When you are purchasing a ham have a knife stuck in it to the bone, which, if the ham be well cured, may be drawn out again without having any of the meat adhering to it, and \vithout your perceiving any disagreeable smeU. A short ham is reckoned the best. Butter. It is necessary to use much caution in purchasing this article in order not to be deceived, for too frequently a well-tasted and scented piece is artfully placed in the lump which is offered for your approbation; there- fore it is better to taste it yourself at a ventui-e, and not to trust that which may be given to you. If you buy salt butter put a knife into it, and apply it to your nose, when the smell wiU direct you much better than the taste; but if