[ 353 ] POT POT two or three carrots, and a tutich of seasoned parsley; cover them lightly with thin slices of lard, and afterwards with two or three rounds of buttered paper, that they may not take any colour ; put in two or three spoonsful of con- somme or stock, make them boil upon the furnace, then put them under a stove, or upon a paillasse; let them cook twenty minutes ; take them up, and let them cool; strain the liquor through gauze, and make a panada with it. Hash the breasts very fine ; put them in a mortar, and pound them with twenty sweet and two bitter almonds; pound all well together, and mix it with a little of the consomme, made of the carcasses of the fowls from which the breasts ■were taken. This is a very delicate white soup. POTAGE A LA SEMOULE. The se- moule is also an Italian paste called semolino, which resembles white poppy seed. Make this pottage as the others, only stirring it a little more, that the semoule may not stick or ball. These are elegant varieties, and may be used in fish or game soups, made exactly in the same way. They may be also coloured green, yellow, or red, with turmeric, saffron, spinach, or beet- root, and, if well done, will be equal to crayfish or tomato sauce. POTASH is found in commerce under two names: the whitest is usually called peaHas/tes; another kind, which is of a darker colour, inclining to dirty red, is called potashes: the last is often considerably more caustic than the first. Both absorb moisture rapidly from the air, so that they cannot long be exposed to it without losing their dry, powdery state. They have a burning, urinous taste. Potash, in its rough state, is prepared by burning wood or other matter till it is reduced to ashes; the ashes are then repeatedly washed with fresh waters till the liquid comes off per- fectly tasteless. The liquids thus obtained are evapoi'ated, and the salt left behind is potash. If this substance be exposed to a red heat many of the materials which are mixed with it are driven off; what remains is much whiter, and, on account of its colour, it is called pearlash. In this state it is deemed sufficiently pure for the ordinary purposes of life, though by no means adapted for the experimental chemist: it is an impure carbonate of potash. Potash is used for innumerable purposes in the arts. From the ease with which it combines with oleous and greasy matters, it is used exten- sively in washing and other purifications of clothing. It combines with all the acids and many other bodies, forming various com- pounds, some of them of the greatest value and use. Various preparations of potash are ordered VOL. II. by the London College. The following are the chief:— Carbonate of Potash. Take of pure sub- carbonate of potash 2 parts; water, 3 parts. Dissolve the salt in the water, and by means of a proper apparatus throw it into a stream of carbonic acid. Filter the solution when it ceases to absorb the acid, and evaporate it by a heat not exceeding 180°, that crystals may form. This is preferable to the common subcarbonate for effervescing draughts, but does not differ from it in its properties as a remedy. Potash with Lime, and Fused Potash, or Infernal Stoke, are both powerful caus- tics, and if taken, even in small doses, inter- nally, destructive poisons. In the application of fused or concrete potash externally as a caustic, to prevent inconvenience from its de- liquescent nature, the skin should be covered with a piece of calico, spread with adhesive plaster, and having a hole in its centre suffi- cient to bear the part only where it is intended to be applied. Solution of Potash. Take of subcarbonate of potash 1 lb.; lime freshly burnt, ^ lb.; boiling distilled water, 1 gallon. Dissolve the subcarbonate of potash in two pints of the water, add the remainder of the water to the lime, mix the hot liquors together, then set the mixture aside in a covered vessel, and when cold let it be strained through a cotton bag. If, on the addition of any diluted acid, effer- vescence be excited, more lime must be added, and the filtration repeated. A pint of this so- lution ought to weigh 16 ozs. It is inodorous, and so caustic that it does not admit of being tasted. It is limpid, dense, and has an oily appearance when agitated. It does not effer- vesce with acids, and feels soapy when rubbed between the fingers, in consequence of its dis- solving the scarf-skin. As a solvent of calculus, both in the kidneys and bladder, this solution has long been celebrated; it acts, however, only on calculi composed of uric acid or urate of ammonia {see Gravel), and its con- tinued use is said to debilitate and otherwise injure the stomach. It has also been used internally in leprosy. The dose may be from 10 drops to I drachm, taken in chicken broth, milk, or almond mixture ; or, in cases of acidity of the stomach, in bitter infusion. Externally it is used, much diluted, in the form of lotion to the joints in rickets and gouty swellings, and in its concentrated state as a caustic to destroy the poison of rabid or venomous animals. Subcarbonate of Potash, commonly called salt of tartar, salt of u'ormivood, or prepared kali. Take of impure potash (pearlashes) reduced to powder, 3 lbs.; boiling water, 3^ pints. Dis- solve the potash in the water, and filter; thea a A