[ 574 ] YEA wou l)ecoTne gangrenous see Gangrene and Morti- riCATtON. As a conclusion on the subject of wounds from accidents, we add the following observa- tions. They are, indeed, equally appropriate to our articles Bruises and Fracture, but they are certainly not less so here. If in consequence of a fall from some high ]ilace, or by any other accident, a considerable degree of injury appears to have been received, the sufferer being unable, in consequence of the deprivation of his senses, to point out the injured part, some consideration and attention are necessary befoi'e any attempts are made even to raise him from the ground. Should the fi'acture of one of the bones, either of the upper or lower extremity, have happened, and not be suspected by the assistants, their exer- tions to raise him and to place him on his feet might force the fractured ends of the hone through the soft parts, and convert a merely simple fracture into a very dangerous and compound one. The limbs, therefore, with a \ iew to this circumstance, should be cai'efully examined; but even if they appear to have suffered no material injury, yet the patient should not be precipitately raised until some- tiiing be provided on which he may be placed. As it will be fair to conclude, from the depriva- tion of his senses, that the brain may have sustained some injury, great care should be taken that whilst he is being conveyed to his npartment, and whilst lying on the bed, the head be kept moderately I'aised; and on no account whatever should any spirituous drinks he given him. Sliould a leg or thigh be broken, the aid and directions of a surgeon should, if possible, be obtained for his removal; but if this cannot be the case the following rules should be ob- served :—First, if any blood-vessel be wounded, and a considerable effusion of blood has taken place, this must, if possible, be further pre- vented by some of the means mentioned above, and that he be not stirred until a proper vehicle is procured on which he can be placed. This, if nothing more proper can be had, may be a door, a shutter, or two or three planks well secured together. To place him on this, two persons may raise him by means of a sheet slid under his hips, whilst one or two raise him by the shoulders, one person raising the sound leg, and one, the most intelligent of his friends, conducting the fractured limb, in moving which great care must be taken that the divided pieces of the bone be kept as much as possible in the same line, lest tlie fractured ends pierce through the soft parts. If a pillow can be obtained the broken limb should be placed on it, and, if it appear to he preferable, previously also to his being raised. When placed on the litter he should be a little inclined to the same side as the injured limb, which, if circumstances will admit, should also be laid on the side, and with the knee a little bent. The best mode of conveyance is undoubtedly by two or four men, in the manner in which a sedan chair is carried. A mattress, or boards, if a mattress cannot be had, should be laid under the bed upon which the patient is placed. If the arm be broken between the elbow and the wrist, the arm should be bent at the elbow, raising the palm of the hand to the breast, with the fiugers moderately bent, the thumb being above, and the little finger below. In this state it may be retained by a sling or handkerchief, supporting it from the elbow to the fingers' ends. When the arm is fractured between tlie wrist and the shoulder, the fore arm may be placed in the same position as already described ; but the sling, instead of supporting the whole length of the arm, should only support the hand, which should be raised higher than in the former case, the elbow being allowed to sink; its motion, however, being prevented, by a handkerchief passed moderately tight round the trunk, including the fractured arm. WRISTBAND. See Shirt-making. WRITING OBLITERATED. (See Ink, Writing, Black ) If on parchment dip it into a vessel of fresh-drawn spring water, and let it remain about a minute; then take it out and press it between two sheets of blotting paper to prevent its crumpling. When it is nearly dry examine it, and if the writing is not restored repeat the operation two or three times. If the fading is only the effect of time, you will by this means restore the writing to its pristine state ; but if the ink has been i-e- moved by any chemical process, of course it cannot be restored. Y YEAST (1). Beer yeast, which is the best for bread, should be strained through a hair sieve, and two or three quarts of spring v/ater poured over it. When it has stood for twenty- four hours the water should be poured off, and the yeast will then be found at the bottom of the vessel quite thick. To preserve that which is left over the baking, it should be put in a bottle, corked tightly, and put into a cold place. In cold weather it should continue good for a fortnight, but fresh yeast is always preferable. When it does not appear sufficiently strong, honey or brown sugar may be mixed with it in the proportion of a tea-spoonful to half a pint.