[ 315 ] PER PER •butter. Drain the perch well, and dish them with the above sauce. PERISTALTIC PERSUADERS. This is the name, allusive to their promoting the di- gesting movement of the intestines, given by Dr. Kitchener to his pills. They are thus formed : — Turkey rhubarb in powder, 2 drachms ; oil of caraway, 10 drops ; simple syrup, 1 drachm by weight. Mix, and divide into forty pills. Dose, two, three, or more. From two to four will generally produce one additional motion within twelve hours. The best time to take them is early in the morning. PERLINGO. Take H lb. of sifted flour, and place it on your slab; make a hole in the middle of it, in which put f lb. of brown sugar, i lb. of fresh butter, the rind of two lemons grated, and ten eggs; knead all these ingredients together well until you have a pretty firm paste (if it should be too thin add a handful more flour); then cut the paste into small pieces, each of which roll in the palms of your hands till it is the length and thickness of your finger; take a round stick (about half the diameter of your paste), press this down on each of the pieces, so that they may be their original thiclmess on one side, and thin on the other, When all are thus pressed form them into little crowns (the flat side inwards, and the thin end uppermost), lay tbem on white paper, and bake them in a moderate oven. In the meanwhile make some white varnish or icing, and, when the perlingos are sufficiently done, dip them carefully in the varnish one by one; then re- place them in the oven a minute or two to dry. PEROGEE PADOGEES. Take a piece of beef, mutton, or lamb that is tender, and the same quantity of beef suet shred separately very fine; then mix them together, seasoning them with pepper, salt, and a little shallot. When sea- soned mix it with a little good broth or gravy. Make a paste as follows:—^-Melt 2 ozs. of fresh butter in half a pint of warm milk ; then put in one egg well beaten, adding flour to it by degrees till it is very stiff", and no eyes in it; mould it well, roll it very thin, cut it out with a very small basin, lay the meat on one side, turn the other over as a pufi", close it with some egg, yolk and white beaten together, and fry in good beef dripping. PERRY is a pleasant and wholesome liquor madefrom the juice of pears by means of fermenta- tion, somewhat in the same manner as cyder is made from apples. The best pears for perry or at least the sorts which have been hitherto thought the fittest for making this liquor, are so excessively tart and harsh as to be totally unfit for any other purpose. The Bosbury pear and the Bearland, or Barland, are the most esteemed in Worcestershire, and the Squash pear, as it is called, in Gloucestershire : the liquor made from this fruit is pale, sweet, yet remarkably fine, and of a strong body, and held in very great estimation. In making perry the pears should be ground and pressed exactly in the same manner as apples in the making of cyder ; but the re- duced pulp should not be allowed to remain any length of time without being pressed. In Hertfordshire, or the counties in its vici- nity, it has never been the practice to blend the juices of the different varieties of the pear, in order to correct the defects of one kind by the opposite properties of another. It is, however, thought more easy to find the required portion of sugar and astringency, as well as flavour, in three or four varieties than in one ; therefore it is supposed ti judicious mixture of fruits aff'ords a prospect of great benefit. In gi'inding, the pulp and rind of the pear, as in the apple, should be perfectly I'educed; and though no benefit is said to be derived from the reduced pulp remaining some hours unpressed, yet there is no doubt but, where all other cir- cumstances are the same, that portion of liquor will, for the most part, be found the best which has remained the longest under the power of the millstone. The juices of the pear and the apple are constituted of the same component parts, but the proportions are dilTerent. In tlio juice of the pear the tannin principally is pre- dominant, with a less portion of sugar, mucilage, and acid matter. Perry requires nearly the same sort of manage- ment during the process of fermentation as cyder, but it does not afford the same indications by which the proper time of racking it off may be ascertained. The thick scum that collects on the surface of cyder seldom appears on the juice of the pear, and during the time of sus- pension of its fermentation the excessive bright- ness of the former liquor is rarely seen in the latter; but, where the fruit has been regularly ripe, its produce will become moderate!)' clear and quiet in a few daj's after it is made, and it should then be drawn off from its grosser lees. To prevent an excess of fermentation the same means are used as in making cyder, and tho liquor is rendered perfectly bright by isinglass. For this purpose the isinglass should be reduced to small fragments by pounding in a mortar, and aftenvards steeped twelve or fourteen hours in a quantity of liquor suflicient to produce its greatest degree of expansion. In this state it must be mixed with a few gallons of the liquor, and stirred till it is diff'used and suspended in it; and it is then poured into the cask, and incorporated with the whole by continued agita- tion for two or three hours. This process should