[ 191 ] MAE MAE choose veal endeavour to looTk at the loin, which will afford you the best means of judging of the veal generally; for if the kidney, which you will find on the under side of one end of the loin, be deeply enveloped in white and firm-looking fat, the meat will certainly be good; and the same appearance will enable you to judge if it has been recently killed. The kidney is the part which changes the first, and then the suet around it becomes soft, and the meat flabby and spotted. Venison. To know whether it be fresh or stale try the haunches or shoulders, under the bones that stick out, with your finger or knife. As the scent is sweet or rank so is it new or stale; and the like of the sides in the most fleshy parts: if tainted they will look greenish in some places, or more than ordinarily black. The buck venison begins in May, and is in high season till September. The doe is in season at Michaelmas, and holds good, if fed, to the end of January. The fore-quarter contains the shoulder, neck, and breast. There is no hind-quarter. The haunch takes up most of the loin with it. Besides these there are some trimmings, which are generally the park-keeper's perquisite, as the tongue, griskin, and umbles. Deer's flesh, which Isaac so much longed for, is thought by some the best, and by some the worst of meats. It is very bad and unwholesome in rutting time. To recover tainted venison. Wrap it up in a coarse cloth, and bury it in dry mould, two feet deep, for forty hours, and the taint will be nearly all taken away. To know whether it be old or young look on the claws of the foot: if the cleft be very wide and rough it is old; if close and smooth it is young. Wild Duck. When fat she feels thick and hard on the belly, but if lean she feels thin and soft on the belly. If newly killed she will be limber footed, but if stale she will be dry footed; and if it be a right wild duck it will have a small reddish foot. Wild Fowl. A pheasant cock, if he be young, has a short blunt spur; but if he be old he has a small sharp one. Observe narrowly if it be not cut or pared. If he be fat he will have a fat vein upon the side of his breast, under the wing; if he be new he will have a fast firm vent; but if he be stale killed he will have a green vent, and if you touch it anything hard with your finger it will peel. The hen pheasant, when young, has smooth legs, and her flesh of a curious grain; if with egg she will have a fast open vent. For new- ness and staleness as the cock. All physicians allow pheasants to be one of the best of meats, and often prescribe pheasant poults in hectic fevers, and upon recovery from a long or violent sickness no meat is more fit than pheasant poults; but strong stomachs, such as those of labourers and ploughmen, by feeding on pheasants, fall immediately into sickness and shortness of breath. Woodcocks. If a woodcock be fat it will feel thick and hard in the vent, and have a fat vein upon the side of the breast; but if lean it will feel thin in the vent; if new killed, limber footed; but if stale, dry footed. Observe if it has a snotty nose or muddy throat, which is very bad; and you may know this by squeezing the throat. Woodcocks are best when they first come in, or rather a month after, when they have rested themselves after their long flight from beyond the seas. MARKING INK. See Ink, Permanent. MARMALADE may be composed of almost any fruits. The best, however, for this purpose are apricots, peaches, oranges, quinces, egg plums, apples, &c. They are usually made by boiling the fruit and sugar together to a kind of pulp, stirring them constantly whilst on the fire. It is kept in pots, which must not be covered till the marmalade is quite cold. The proportion of sugar is i lb. to 1 lb. of fruit. MARMALADE, TRANSPARENT. Take some very pale Seville oranges, and cut them into quarters; take out the pulp, put it into a basin, and take out all the seeds and skin; put the peels into a little salt and water, and leave them to soak in it all night; then boil them in a good quantity of spring water till they are tender, cut them in extremely thin slices, and add them to the pulp. To eveiy pound of mar- malade put 1^ lb. of double-refined sugar finely sifted, and boil them together gently for twenty minutes. If it is not sufficiently clear boil or simmer it for five or six minutes longer; keep stirring it gently all the time, and take great care you do not break the slices. When cold put it into jelly or sweetmeat glasses, and tie them down closely with brandy paper. See Apricot, Orange, and Qdince Marmalade. MARROW BONES. Scrape all the meat from the shoulder or leg bones, saw them across, and trim the ends so that they may stand upon the dish; lay a piece of paste made of flour and water over the top of each bone to keep in the marrow, tie them up in a cloth, and set them on the fire to boil. Send dry toast up with the bones. MARROW CREAM. Pound 1 oz. of sweet almonds with a little milk, press out the milk from the almonds, which use whilst pounding 2 ozs. of beef marrow and some lemon-peel; beat up the yolks of six eggs in warm milk, and add them to the marrow ; mix the whole with a quart of good milk, strain it into a saucepan.