NER NER [ -250 ] either diluted spirit or ■well-fermented malt liquor. After dinner be may encourage a nap in the chair for a few minutes, provided he be drowsy, and finds himself refreshed by it. For supper he may take a basin of broth or light bread pudding; and, if malt liquor be necessary to quiet the system or dispose it to sleep, he may take with it an anchovy and some bread. Generally speaking three meals a day are sufficient for the nourishment or support of the body; but in nervous subjects there are often such peculiarities of stomachs, that it is common for local nervous excitement to take place either in the head, heart, or bowels, when the stomach is not engaged, or when it is distended with gas. The determination of blood to the stomach, and increased energy of its nerves, which take place during digestion, often relieve violent nervous headache and other local nervous affections, and for this purpose it is common for nervous sub- jects to have recourse to frequent meals; and when they evidently quiet the system, allay local excessive action, and do not fatigue or oppress the stomach, they should be allowed. With respect to the frequency, quantity, and even quality of meals, a nervous patient should be as competent to judge as the most experienced physician. NERVOUSNESS. Of all diseases incident to mankind those of the nervous kind are the most complicated and difficult to cure. A vo- lume would not be sufficient to point out their various appearances. They imitate almost every disease, and are seldom alike in two different persons, or even the same person at differ- ent times. Proteus-like, they are continually changing shape, and upon every fresh attack the patient thinks he feels symptoms which he never experienced before. Nor do they only affect the body; the mind likewise suffers, and is often thereby rendered extremely weak and peevish. The low spirits, timorousness, me- lancholy, and fickleness of temper, which ge- nerally attend nervous disorders, induce many to believe that they are entirely diseases of the mind; but this change of temper is rather a consequence than the cause of nervous diseases. Causes. Everything that tends to relax or ■weaken the body disposes it to nervous diseases, as indolence, excessive venery, drinking too much tea, or other weak watery liquors warm, fre- quent bleeding, purging, vomiting, &c. What- ever hurts the digestion or prevents the proper assimilation of the food has likewise this effect, as long fasting, excess in eating or drinking, the use of windy, crude, or unwholesome ali' ments, an unfavourable posture of the body, &c. Nervous disorders often proceed from intense application to study. Indeed, few studious per- sons are entirely free from them. Nor is this at all to be wondered at. Intense thinking not only preys upon the spirits, but prevents the person from taking proper exercise, by which means the digestion is impaired, the nourish meut prevented, the solids relaxed, and the whole mass of humours vitiated. Grief and dis- appointment likewise produce the same effects. We have known more nervous patients who dated the commencement of their disorders from the loss of a husband, a favourite child, or from some disappointment in life, than from any other cause. In a word, whatever weakens the body or depresses the spirits may occasion nervous disorders, as unwholesome air, want of sleep, great fatigue, disagreeable apprehen- sions, anxiety, vexation, &c. Symptoms. We shall only mention some of the most general symptoms of these disorders, as it would be both a useless and impractica- ble task to enumerate the whole. They gene- rally begin with windy inflations or distentions of the stomach and intestines; the appetite and digestion are usually bad, yet sometimes there is an uncommon craving for food and a quick digestion. The food often turns sour on the stomach, and the patient is troubled with vomiting of clear water, tough phlegm, or a blackish-coloured liquor resembling the grounds of coffee. Excruciating pains are often felt about the navel, attended with a rumbling or murmuring noise in the bowels. The body is sometimes loose, but more frequently bound, ■which occasions a retention of wind and great uneasiness. The urine is sometimes small in quantity, at other times very copious and quite clear; there is a great tightness of the breast, with difficulty of breathing; violent palpitations of the heart; sudden flushings of heat in various parts of the body; at other times a sense of cold, as if water were poured on them; flying pains in the arms and limbs, pains in the back and belly, resembling those occasioned by gi'avel; the pulse very variable, sometimes uncommonly slow, and at other times very quick; yawning, the hiccup, frequent sighing, and a sense of suffocation, as if from a ball or lump in the throat; alternate fits of crying and convulsive laughing; the sleep is unsound and seldom refreshing; and the patient is often troubled with the nightmare. As the disease increases the patient is mo- lested with vertigo, syncope, headaches, cramps, and fixed pains in various parts of the body; the eyes are clouded, and often affected with pain and dryness ; there is a noise in the ears, and often a dulness of hearing; in short, the whole animal functions are impaired. The mind is disturbed on the most trivial occasions, and is hurried into the most perverse commotions,