ORA ORA [ 275 ] ORANGE-FLOWER CREAM. Having boiled a pint of cream with the same quantity of milk, add some sugar and a small quantity of salt, and when it boils put in a good pinch of orange flowers ; cover, and continue to boil until the cream is well flavoured with the flowers; then mix with it the yolks of ten or six eggs, according to the size of the mould, and stir them together over the fire, taking care not to let it boil; take it off, put in the clarified isinglass, and rub it through a silk sieve ; pour it into a mould or cups, which place in a pan, with a sufficient quantity of water to reach half way; cover, and put fire on the lid to prevent the steam from dropping on the cream. When done let it cool. If the cream is for cups, as many eggs must be put in as you have cups. ORANGE-FLOWER ICE. Dissolve 3 lbs. of sugar in five pints of water, put 1 lb. of well- picked orange flowers into a large bottle or jar, pour the syrup on them, close the vessel her- metically, and let it stand five hours ; then strain it in the sarbotiere, and ice it as usual. See Ice. ORANGE-FLOWER JELLY (Printaniere Au Caramel). Having clarified f lb. of sugar, boil half of it to caramel; then take it from the fire, and add to it 1 oz. 4 drachms of fresh-gathered orange flowers; stir them in with a silver spoon, and when quite cold pour on them two glasses of boiling water; then set the mixture on hot ashes till the caramel sugar is dissolved, and, as soon as it is so, strain and mix with it the remainder of the sugar and 1 oz. of clarified isinglass. Finish your jelly as directed for Jelly, Printaniere. ORANGE-FLOWER MARCHPANE. Take 6 ozs. of orange-flower marmalade, 2 lbs. of sweet almonds, and 1^ lb. of sugar ; blanch and pound the almonds to a very fine paste, and clarify and boil the sugar to petit boulet; then add the almond paste and marmalade to it, stir them till of the proper consistence, and when cold make your marchpane into cakes of whatever size and shape you please. ORANGE - FLOWER MARMALADE. Take 1 lb. of orange flowers and 2 lbs. of sugar; take the fibres from the flowers, which throw into a saucepan of cold water. When all are done squeeze over them the juice of one large or two small lemons, and set this on the fire, constantly stirring till the flowers give to the touch ; then take them out, and lay them on a sieve, pouring cold water on them till they are quite cold; put them into a mortar, and pound them to a sort of paste, which mix with the sugar boiled to boulet; boil them together a few times, then take it oft', and mix with it 1 lb. of apple jelly. As soon as they are thoroughly incorporated the marmalade may be put into pots, which must not, however, be covered till cold. ORANGE-FLOWER PASTILS. Pulverise a good pinch of dried orange flowers, and pound them with gum dragon, previously dissolved in one glass of plain, and the same quantity of orange-flower water; add a sufficient proportion of powder sugar to make the paste of the requisite consistence, which form according to your taste into cones, lozenges, &c. ORANGE-FLOWER SYRUP. Clarify and boil 4 lbs. of sugar to perle, add % lb. of fresh orange flowers picked, and boil them once; then take the pan from the fire, and let it stand for two hours, after which replace it on the fire. When it has had about a dozen boilings pour it through a sieve into another saucepan, boil the syrup to lisse, and put it aside. When quite cold bottle it. The flowers may be used as follows :—Put them into powder sugar, with which rub them well with your hands till quite dry ; then sift and put them in a stove. ORANGE-FLOWER WATER. Put into a still 10 lbs. of fresh-gathered orange flowers, and six quai'ts of pure river water ; take particular care to close up all the apertures of the still perfectly, and set it on a moderate fire, that the ebullition may not be too strong. Be particular in cooling it frequently, or at least, whenever the water in the boiler becomes too warm, change it, and put in fresh. Much depends on the attention paid to this part of the operation. From the above quantity three quarts of orange- flower water may be drawn. ORANGE FLOWERS: To Preserve. Take the orange flowers just as they begin to open, put them into boiling water, and let them boil very quickly till they are tender, putting in a little juice of lemon as they boil to keep them white; then drain them, carefully dry them between two napkins, and put them into clarified sugar (a sufficient quantity to cover them). The next day drain the syrup, boil it a little smooth, and when almost cold pour it on the flowers. The following day drain them, and lay them out to dry, dusting them a very little. ORANGE FLOWERS, CANDIED. Boil some clarified sugar to souffle^ and then throw in some picked orange flowers ; remove it from the fire, replace it in a quarter of an hour, and let it rise to souffle again take it off' a second time, and when about half cold pour it into moulds, which place in a moderately heated stove. Keep it at the same temperature whilst the candy is dicing. When done the top should sparkle like diamonds. Set the moulds on one side to drain for some time before you turn out the candy, which must be kept in a dry place. ORANGE FLOWERS COMPOTE OF. Choose your flowers very white and well picked.