[ 239 ] MUT MUT MUTTON EUMPS, ENTREE OF. Clean the rumps, and braise them till nearly done; then fry slips of bread the same breadth and length ; put a rump on each piece of bread, and over it grated Parmesan cheese, and upon the whole a little mustard, butter, and cullis mixed together; strew at the top some fine bread crumbs. Bake the rumps till tender, and serve them in a little consomme, thickened with iiiie yolks of two eggs and a gill of cream. MUTTON RUMPS AND KIDNEYS. Boil half a dozen rumps, then stew them in some mutton gravy, more than will cover them; let them stew gently for half an hour, then take them up, and let them stand to cool. Put into the gravy | lb. of boiled rice, an onion stuck with cloves, and a blade of mace. Let it boil till the rice is very thick. Take the rumps, and rub them over with the yolk of an egg well beaten up, and then roll them in bread crumbs, a little pepper, salt, some grated nutmeg, lemon- peel grated, and a very little thyme. Fry them in butter till they are of a nice brown. Whilst the rumps are stewing lard some kidneys, and put them in a Dutch oven to roast. When the rumps are fried drain them ; pour the fat out of the frying-pan, and put in the rice ; stir the wliole together round the pan, and then lay tiie rice in a dish; lay the rumps round upon the rice, the narrow ends to meet in the middle. Boil four eggs hard, cut them in quarters, and lay the kidneys and hard eggs upon the rice between the rumps. MUTTON RUMPS, MARINATED. Clean and cut the rumps into equal lengths, and lay them in the pan in the marinade liquor for one night; then pass them in butter till nearly done. Lay them on a dish to cool, wash them over with yolk of egg, and strew them with bread crumbs. Fry them gently in boiling lard till done, and of a nice colour. Drain them dry, and serve them up with a very good-seasoned cullis sauce with catsup in it. MUTTON, SADDLE OF : To Roast. Skin it, and split the tail ; then skewer it down at each end, paper it all over, and put it down to the fire, which must be very clear and brisk. A saddle of middle size will take an hour and a half in roasting. A little before it is done baste it with butter, and dredge it to raise a froth. Serve it up with the gravy in the dish. MUTTON, SADDLE OF (Baked). Prepare and dress a saddle of mutton in every respect as for a remove. When cold take off the skin, trim and season it with pepper and salt, brush it all over with melted butter, bread it, and then let it cool. Put I lb. of butter into a basin, break ten eggs on it, and add pepper and salt; beat them together well, wash the saddle over with it completely, and cover it well with the bread. Put the saddle on a baking tin, and set it in the oven, which must not be too hot, or it will spoil the colour of the mutton. MUTTON. SADDLE OF (Braised). Bone half a saddle of mutton; season the inner part with salt and pepper, roll it up in the form of a long square, tie it up, and braise it for two hours and a half. When ready for table raise the skin and glaze it. Put in the dish any puree or sauce you please. MUTTON, SADDLE OF (as a Remove). Choose a fat saddle of mutton well covered with skin; bone the ribs to the spine; season the under part with pepper, salt, and pounded spice; fill each side with the meat from a leg of mutton ; roll it in, taking care to make both the same size. Tie it up, adding the ribs and leg bone, and braise it for five hours; then drain and untie it, strip all the skin from the top, and either glaze or cover it with shred parsley. Serve it with a clear gravy, and garnish your dish with glazed turnips, onions, or carrots. MUTTON SAUSAGES. Take 1 lb. of the most underdone part of a leg of mutton which has been either roasted or boiled ; chop it very finely, and season it with pepper, salt, mace, and nutmeg; add to it 6 ozs. of beef suet, some sweet herbs, two anchovies, and a pint of oysters (all chopped very small), ^ lb. of grated bread, some of the anchovy liquor, and the yolks and whites of two eggs well beaten. When thoroughly mixed put all into a little pot, and use it by rolling it into little balls, or of a sausage shape, and fry them. A little shallot or garlic is a great improvement. MUTTON, SHOULDER OF (Baked). Lard a shoulder of mutton with streaked bacon, put it into an earthen stewpan proportioned to the size of the joint of meat, with two or three sliced onions, a parsnip and carrot sliced, one clove of garlic, two cloves, half a bay leaf, and some basil; add about a quarter of a pint of water or stock, and some salt and pepper; put the meat into the sauce, and set it in an oven. When the meat is done strain the sauce through a sieve, and skim it, squeezing the vegetables, so as to make a puree to thicken your sauce. Serve the sauce with the meat. MUTTON, SHOULDER OF (Boiled with Oysters). Hang up the joint for some days, then salt it well for two more ; bone it, and sprinkle it with pepper and mace powdered ; lay over it some oysters, roll up the meat tightly, and then fasten it. Stew it in a close pan with a little water, an onion, and some peppercorns, till it is tender. Make a little good gravy, and stew some oysters in it; thicken it with flour and butter, and pour the whole over the mutton. MUTTON, SHOULDER OF (Broiled). Braise a shoulder of mutton that has hung