POT POT [ 357 ] put these pieces into the hutter, &c.; set the saucepan on the fire, stirring them constantl}', and talcing care not to let them hoil. Serve with a little lemon juice squeezed over. POTATOES, PUREE OF. Steam some potatoes thoroughly, and having pared them, put them into a mortar, and pound them as fine as possible, moistening them with a good stock; rub them through a sieve into a sauce- pan, and dilute the puree with more stock ; set it on the fire, and stir it till it is of the requisite consistence, which should be that of thick cream. Serve the puree with fried bread round, and brown with the salamander. POTATOES, QUENELLES OF. Put some of the best kind of potatoes into hot ashes to roast. When done take out all the floury- parts, which put into a mortar, pound well, and rub through a sieve , take half the quantity of butter, and beat it in the mortar with the potato flour till it becomes a very fine paste ; then mix it with parsley and scallions, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, the yolks of five or six eggs, and the whites of two or three well whipped. Make your quenelles, and poach them as directed. [See Quenelles.) Drain them, place them in a dish, and pour over them an Espagnole travaillee, tomato, Portuguese, or any other sauce you may prefer. POTTAGE OF GAME. Having prepared stock, civet, or salmis, take what quantity of partridges, snipes, ducklings, or any other young birds is necessary for the size of the dish ; half roast them, and cut out the breasts, leaving the other parts whole. Make a farce with part of the breasts, sweetbreads, marrow, or butter' season it properly. If game, add a very little thyme and a clove of garlic: almonds may be added to either. Rub the inside of the birds with yolks of eggs, and fill them with the farce : the skin may be kept attached to one side, to be tacked over, that they may be larded, or, if without the skin, rubbed with the yolk of an egg. Put them into a Dutch or slack oven. Beat ^ lb. of almonds with the reserved part of the breasts and a sweetbread or two, or any white meat; rub it through a tammy with a little stock, and set it aside to finish with. Rub celery, spinach, sorrel, endive, or onions cooked brown in butter, and stewed in stock; put these to the prepared soup, season it well, and have ready farce balls, nicely cut potatoes, and a diced sweetbread or tongue ; add these also, that they may taste of the soup, and put into the tureen slices of light bread , pour the soup over them, and Jay in the birds, sticking them thickly over slantwise with sliced almonds. If they have not been larded make the reserved farce, of the consistence of a sauce, hot in a pan with a spout^ and; pour it all. over in rings; or it may be previously mixed with the soup. This pottage may be served separately from the bi'-ds, in which case a little of the soup must be thickened, and the birds served upon it. This is not at all an expensive pottage, as it may be made of any small and left birds, without the almonds or sweetbreads, instead of which a little nice bacon may be added. An excellent farce for this dish may be made of veal, lamb, pig, or hare lights, to which add a few almonds, a little garlic, truffle, or oyster powder. POTTED MEATS. Though potted meats come within the more especial department of cookeiy, we think it may be more convenient to have, in a separate form, directions for preparing potted meats commonly in use among us, and also anchovy and herring pastes. To men who are sometimes obliged to be absent on business at the hour of the family meal, and cannot control the period of returning home, potted meats are a most convenient preparation, as they imme- diately supply something relishing and digestive when fatigue and anxiety have palled the healthy appetite. The art of potting is very easy; but, like every other culinary prepai'ation, it requires liberality. The first and most important thing to have is good clarified butter, as with common butter nothing would keep good. Clarified butter ought always to be used in cookery in preference to any other. We have already given (vol. ii. p. 2.), in one of our cookery articles, directions for clarifying butter ; but as we have another form, and it is required for potting, it may claim a place here. Clarified butter. Butter properly clarified will keep a considerable time if put into suitable vessels, and closely stopped. Put 10 lbs. of freshly made butter into a well-tinned stewpan, and place it over the fire. When the butter is melted skim it well as the scum rises, and throw into it a little bit of peeled onion, say a quarter of an onion of a moderate size. Let the butter boil five minutes, and no longer, during which time it must be completely shimmed. Take it suddenly from the fire, and. pour it boiling into a stone jar that will just hp^d it, taking care to keep back any milk or other sediment that may have separated from it, and will always remain at the bottom of the stewpan. Before it has become solid stir in with a wooden spoon a little bay salt to preserve it good, and some grains of black pepper. When any of this butter is, required for use it must be scooped out with a wooden spoon, and never touched with metal. There is, also a mode of sweetening rancid butter by clarifying it, which is veiy curious. Melt and skim, tjie ljutter as. for cferifying; take it off the