OPI [ 271 ] OPH opaque till immersed in water; it then re- sembles the former. Common opal is usually of a dirty white, and does not exhibit the colours of the noble opal. The substance called meni- lite, from Menil Montant, near Paris, is nearly allied to common opal. It is found in irregular masses in beds of clay. OPHTHALMIA. See Eye, Inflammation of. OPIATES. {See Anodyne.) Opium, as a stimulant, is, in the Oriental regions, abundantly in use; but among the more northern nations that of wine and spirituous liquor has a preference. Though tobacco, hemlock, henbane, nightshade, and the milky juice of the poppy and wild lettuce also possess narcotic qualities, opium is the article which, for medicinal purposes, is usually adopted. A small dose of opium exhilarates the spirits, and also augments both the vital and the natural functions. In a larger dose, headache, delirium, and convulsions are produced ; the mouth, too, becomes dry and parched, and the thirst con- siderable ; and there is sleep more or less pro- found. Should, too, an inordinate quantity of opium bo taken, together with stupor and sleep, as in apoplexy, the breathing is difficult, with snoring. A fatal termination then often super- venes. The temperate use of opium is that which is alone admissible. This being difficult pi-ecisely to regulate, and as wine and spirituous liquors, somewhat diluted, have a safer operation, they should, with the exception of intestinal fluxes and severe morbid affection, in general, be pre- ferred. Discharges of blood and of the customary evacuations, spasms, convulsions, and the urgent stages of nervous affection, are diseases in which opiates are usually given. The following are various forms in which an opiate may be administered :— Draughts. Take of tincture of opium from 10 to 30 minims ; peppermint water, 1^ fluid oz. ; spirit of peppermint and syrup of orange, of each 2 fluid drachms. Make a draught. It is to be given occasionally. Or, take of confec- tion of opium ] scruple ; peppermint water, 1J fluid oz.; spirit of caraway and syrup of ginger, of each 2 fluid drachms. Make a draught. It is to be taken as the preceding. Mixtures. Take of compound tincture of camphor 3 fluid ozs. Two tea-spoonsful may be taken occasionally. Or, take of confection of opium 2 drachms ; cinnamon water, 5 fluid ozs. ; spirit of cinnamon, 1 fluid oz. Mix them. A table-spoonful to be taken as circum- stances may require. Pills. Take of pills of soap, with opium, drachm. Make six pills. One should be as oiven circumstances may require. Powders. Take of powder of burnt harts- horn, with opium, I scruple. It may be given in cinnamon water. Or, take of compound powder of chalk, with opium, \ drachm. It should be used as the preceding. OPIUM is obtained from the juice of the common poppy [Papaver somniferum). The countries in which opium is produced as an article of commerce are Asiatic Turkey, Egypt, Persia, and India. The Turkey opium is ex- ported from Smyrna and Constantinople, and is the produce of the province of Anatolia. It is always distinguished by being covered externally with the remains of leaves, and by a quantity of the seed-vessels of a species of rumex, whicli ai'e employed to prevent the lumps from ad- hering and forming a mass. It is in masses, which have been originally of a round form, but variously indented, and rendered quite irregular, by the pressure to which it has been subse- quently subjected. Two varieties are distinguish- able in the Turkey opium. In that which comes from Smyrna, when a lump is broken, numerous minute shining tears are observable, particularly under the microscope, bearing some resemblance to small seeds, but readily distin- guishable by pressure between the fingers. These are supposed to be drops of the juice which escape from the incisions of the capsules, and which, according to Belon, are allowed to concrete before they are removed. Tlie same author states that, after the juice has been collected, it is not subjected to the process of kneading or beating, as in the case of other varieties of opium. Another peculiarity of this variety is the minute pieces of the poppy cap- sules which are found intermingled in the mass, which may arise from the mode of collecting it; but these are the only impurities which it contains. Smyrna opium should yield from ten to eleven per cent, of morphia. That which is received from Constantinople is wholly destitute of the tears of which we have just spoken ; and in this alone does it diifer, in external appear- ance, from the former variety, as it also has the seed - vessels of the rumex attached to it. Egyptian opium is in the form of flat, roundish cakes, sometimes as much as six inches in diameter, and weighing 1 lb., and sometimes not more than ^ oz. These cakes are wrapped in a poppy leaf, so placed that the midrib divides the surface in two equal halves ; and, should the leaf not be present, the mark of the midrib may still be detected. This variety is wholly destitute of the seed-vessels of the rumex, and differs from the preceding in being brittle instead of tenacious, and equally hard in the centre as at the surface. Egyptian opium presents all the indications of extensive adulteration. On exposure to the air it becomes