E mi BAP EYE ■J draclim or 1 draclim it often causes nausea and vomiting, and in still larger doses produces a sense of pain and weight in the head, giddiness, dilatation of the pupils, delirium, and even stupor. EYE BATTER CAKES. Beat two eggs till very light, mix them gradually with a quart of lukewarm milk, and sufficient rye meal to make a batter about as thick as for buck- wheat cakes; then stir in a large table-spoon- ful of the best brewers' yeast, or twice that quantity if the yeast is home made; cover it, and set it to rise in a warm place. If too thin add more rye meal. When quite light, and covered on the surface with bubbles, bake it on a griddle in the manner of buckwheat cakes. Butter them, and eat them wai'm at breakfast or tea. If you cannot obtain good yeast, and wish to have the cakes ready with as much expedition as possible, you may use patent yeast powders according to the directions that accompany them. In this case the cakes must be baked in half an hour after the powders are mixed into the batter. Yeast powders put in at the last are an improvement to all sorts of batter cakes that have been previously fermented with good real yeast, and also to cakes made light by eggs; but to depend entirely on the powders, without either real yeast or eggs, is not well, as the cakes, though eatable, are generally too tough and leathery to be wholesome. In cities fresh yeast from brewers can be obtained every day, at a very trifling cost, during the brewing season, which is usually from October to April. At other seasons it can be procured from the bakers, or made at home, and should always be used in preference to depending solely on yeast powders. Though they improve the lightness of batter for which real yeast or beaten eggs have already been used, they will not of themselves alone give it a wholesome degree of lightness or crispness. Too much dependence on yeast powders is one reason that the buckwheat cakes of the present day are so inferior to those of former times, when they were always made of real yeast. Indian batter cakes may be made as above. RYE BREAD requires very little yeast. Mix with the water from 2 ozs. to 6 ozs. of treacle for each pound of flour; let it be strained through a very fine gauze or lawn sieve, as treacle is often adulterated with sand, and add salt, caraway, or anise of Verdun. The rye being sweet, the additional sweet gives it a determina- tion, and corrects a disease to which that grain is liable, and makes the bread pleasant, healthy, ar.d nourishing. It is an excellent sea store. RYE FLOUR. Used either to make sweet bread, raising the dough by yeasty or an acid bread, "by using leaven for that pul-pbse. This last is cooling, but not so nourishing as tho former, and more suited to an animal diet; I'j S. SACK. A sack of flour is 280 lbs., i. e., five bushels of 56 lbs. each. A sack of potatoes is 240 lbs., or three bushels of 80 lbs. each. A sack of wool contains 22 stone, each stone being 14 lbs. SACK. A wine formerly used in this country, and supposed by some to be Rhenish; others think it was Canary; but a recent and more probable conjecture is that it was sherry. The term sack is most probably corrupted from sec, dry, sherry being a dry wine in the language of the vintner SACK CREAM. Boil a pint of cream, the yolk of an egg beaten, two or three spoonsful of white wine, sugar, and lemon-peel; stir the whole over a gentle fire till it is as thick as rich cream, and when taken off stir it again till it is cold. Serve it in glasses with pieces of toast. SAFFRON. This is the anthers of th& Crocus sativus dried. Saffron is remarkably fragrant, and is highly esteemed, as it exhilarates the spirits when taken in small doses ; but, if used in too large portions, it produces immoderate mirth and all the consequences resulting from the abuse of spirituous liquors. It imparts a beautiful colour to water, wine, or spirits, to which it communicates its virtues. ^ This drug was formerly considered an ex- cellent remedy in hysteric depressions origin- ating from spasms, or from obstructions of the usual evacuations ; but in modern practice it is seldom employed, though it forms an ingredient in several medicinal preparations. The best saffron is that raised in England, which may be known by the breadth of its blades : it ought to be of a deep red or orange colour; fresh and tough, though neither too dry nor too moist; and of a strong, but pleasant aromatic odour. It deserves to be more generally known that mercenary dealers often adulterate this valuable spice with safflower, or with the fibrils of dried beef. The former practice, which is more common and less troublesome, cannot be easily detected; but the latter species of fraud may be ascer- tained by infusing a few threads of suspected saffron in a wine-glassful of simple water; and if, after standing twenty-four hours, the liquor acquire only a pale yellow tint instead of a bright red hue, it may be concluded that it is not genuine. SAFFRON CAKES. Take half a peck of