NUR [ 258 ] NUT attributable to such defects having prevailed in the nursery. NURSERY. The tirst and most essential requisite in a nursery is the constant enjoyment and command of a moderately dry, pure air. To obtain this a residence should be selected in a dry and rather elevated situation, removed from all sources of contamination and humidity, and at the same time sheltered from the violence of the wind. When a choice can be made the country should be preferred to the town, as one of the clearest results, for which we are indebted to all recent accurate statistical returns, is the fact of the superior healthiness of the country, especially for the young. The close vicinity to the house of trees or thick shrubbery, of ponds, undrained meadows, or sluggish water-courses, ought to be scrupulously avoided; for, however ornamental they may be, they are invariably prejudicial to health, not only from the humidity and impurities which they diffuse through the air, especially at night, but also from the ob- struction which some of them present to free ventilation. For the same reason narrow valleys, and localities shut up by thick woods, ought never to be chosen as the sites of villages. From overlooking the unfavourable influence of a stagnant, humid air, families going into the country in pursuit of health often sustain serious injury by settling in situations, which a better acquaintance with the laws of animal economy would have shown them beforehand to be very ill suited to the nature of the infant constitution. For those who are obliged to reside in towns it is of great importance to secure the best situ- ation within their reach. Even in point of economy, not to mention the suffering and anxiety attendant on illness, it will be cheaper to pay more for a suitable house in a dry, well- aired quarter, than a smaller sum for one in a low-lying or crowded part of a town. We are acquainted with several instances in which the additional cost incurred in removing to a better district has been more than counterbalanced by a reduction in the expenses of sickness ; and we are anxious to enforce attention to the fact, because it is not unusual for men in business to be guided entirely by personal convenience in the choice of their residence, and to live in a situation, simply because it is near, which they would at once remove from were they aware of its real influence. We have only to contrast the blanched and feeble appearance of children inhabiting the dark and narrow streets of a crowded city, with the rosy freshness of those of the same classes residing in the suburbs or in the country, to obtain a pretty correct notion of the importance of a well-selected locality. Considering the susceptibility to the influence of cold in early infancy, we need hardly add that a high and bleak situation, or one exposed to the lull force of the north and east winds, is equally unfavourable, and ought to be carefully avoided. In addition to a dry and airy situation, a good exposure and cheerful prospect are well worthy of attention in the selection of a residence for the young. In a cloudy and uncertain climate, like that of Britain, a southern aspect is ex- tremely desirable, not only because it is warmer and more cheerful, but because the agency of light, as a gentle and wholesome stimulus, is scarcely less necessary for the animal than for tlie vegetable world. Every one is aware that vegetables are blanched by the exclusion of light, and that corn growing even under the shade of a tree is paler, sicklier, and later in ripening than that growing in the open field ; but we do not keep sufiiciently in mind that on man the operation of light is scarcely less sti'iking. Deprived of its wholesome and enlivening stimu- lus, he becomes pale and sickly in appearance, his blood is imperfectly oxygenated, and a prone- ness to diseases or debility arises. Of these results we find numerous examples in the nar- row lanes and dark cellars of every large town, and in the member's of sedentary professions, and others rarely exposed to the full light of day ; and especially in children we see them all in an aggravated degree. A situation of a gay and cheerful aspect is also particularly desirable, because it is one of those gentle but constantly operating circum- stances which, imperceptibly but certainly, in- fluence both the health and character of a child. And it ought never to be forgotten that in exact proportion to the susceptibility of the infant organisation is the importance of attend- ing to all these apparently minute objects. A dull and confined prospect is a source of dulness and ennui to the naturally active mind of a child, which cannot feel dispirited or gloomy without suffering in its health, and also in its future development; so that, whether we regard its bodily strength or its mental character, we should be equally solicitous to procure a cheerful and enlivening prospect.—{Dr. Combe.) NUT BONBONS. Boil lib. of Spanish nuts. When they are w^ell boiled rub off their skin with a napkin. If some sticks too hard pare it off with a knife. Grate your nuts very fine on a sheet of paper; then take 1 lb. of sugar, put it in a pan over a slow fire, and stir con- stantly with a wooden spoon. When it is melted put in your nuts, work them w^ell till thoroughly mixed, and pour it upon a tin plate; then spread it with a rolling-pin, and this must be done quickly, as it cools very fast. When it is cold cut it into what form you please. You must take care the sugar is