t 401 ] ROA tnent of rickety chUiiyren will be a change of air, by removing them from town to the country, to an elevated and dry situation, supplying a nutritious diet and a moderate quantity of wine. Rickety patients should lie on hair mat- tresses, chaff beds, &c., these being preferable to feather beds, as they do not yield to the weight of the body: hence they tend to keep the limbs and body in a natural position. Various mechanical contrivances have been in- vented for the purpose of obviating the effects of this disease, but it is next to doing nothing to attempt using them with very young children. RING, TIGHT: To Remove. Thread a needle flat in the eye with a strong thread, pass the head of the needle with care under the ring, and pull the thread through a few inches towards the hand ; wrap the long end of the thread tightly round the finger regularly all down the nail to reduce its size; then lay bold of the short end, and unwind it. The thread, repassing against the ring, will gradually remove it from the finger. RINGWORM OF THE SCALP. The head should be frequently shaved, and kept covered with an oiled silk cap, or, instead of which, a thin bladder has sometimes been used. An ointment should be formed by mixing together spermaceti cerate and finely pulverised supertartrate of potash, in such proportions as to make it of a very fine consistence, of which a piece the size of a nutmeg, or larger, according to the extent of the surface affected, phould be well rubbed on the part with the palm of the hand every night for three or four minutes : the head should be well washed with soap and water every third night previously to the ppplication of the ointment. Internal medicines are seldom requisite in this ad- vanced stage, except where the character of the affection is irregular, or there is a peculiarity in the constitution of the patient, in which cases some modification of treatment will necessarily be required: these variations will readily be made by any respectable practitioner. The above plan, if diligently pursued for from three to six weeks, will rarely disappoint the ex- pectations of those who try it, even in in- veterate cases. When it does not yield to this a weak solution of the oxymuriate of mercury may be used, in the proportion of 1 grain to 2 ozs. of water. Medicine is seldom necessary internally. In slight cases, common with some, is used a decoction of nut-galls, the astringency i f which will often entirely remove the disease. RISSOLES : To Fey. Roll out some puff paste, and cut it into form ; .mince some cold veal or fowl small, with white pepper and salt, a little cream, and the yolk of a raw egg; give it a gentle heat, aud when cold wet the VOL, II. edge of the paste; lay a spoonful of the minced meat on it, turn it over, and close it well; then glaze it over with the yolk of egg, and put tho rissoles into a pan of boiling dripping. When fried brown take them out, and lay them on a sieve to drain. They must be served hot. ROACH. The roach is a very coarse and bony fish. Those which are taken from rivers are very superior to those that are taken from ponds. They are in season in April and May. ROACH, BOILED. Scale, gut, and wash them; wipe them, and cut them in three or four places on the side. Put into a stewpan somo small beer, vinegar, and water (enough to cover the fish), some salt, a bunch of sweet herbs, some parsley, and a stick of horseradish sliced. When it boils put in the fish. Serve with anchovy sauce. ROACH, FRIED. Scale and gut the roach, wash them in salt and water, wipe them exceed- ingly dry, flour, and fry them in boiling lard: they must be brown and crisp. Lay them in a warm dish, pour the fat out of the pan, put in a piece of butter, and when it boils fry somo sage and parsley till crisp, and lay them on the roach. Serve with anchovy sauce. ROASTING. In the first place observe that your spit is properly cleaned with sand and water; for brickdust and oil will give it a bad appearance, and a disagreeable taste to the meat. When well scoured wipe it dry with a clean cloth. If the spit is carefully wiped after roasting, and while hot, it will require nothing more than a wipe before using. The less it passes through the meat the better; and in many joints it will enter at the bones, and ruu along them for some distance, without the least injury to the prime parts. Care must be taken that the meat is balanced evenly on the spit, that its motion may be regular, and the fire act equally on every part. For this purpose you must be provided with leaden or balancing skewers, and what are called cook-holds. Pud a little salt and water into the dripping-pan, and ■with this baste the meat for a little time before the fat or butter is used. When the meat is dry baste it with flour. By salting meat before it is put down to roast the gravy is drawn out. Salt, therefore, should be reserved till the joint is almost done. Roasting requires a radiant fire; therefore make it up in time. Proportion it to the dinner that is to be dressed, and extend it of a suffi- cient length, so that the ends of the joint, or whatever else is put down before it, may be thoroughly done as the rest. About half an hour or more before you roast it prepare the grate by laying on a few substantial coals, and putting between the bars others of different