[ 139 ] LEM LEM LEMON ESSENCE. Kasp your lemons all round very thin, and for every i lb. of rind allow 1 lb. of sugar; mix well with a large spaddle till you find it is all of the same colour, and that the rind is well mixed ; put it into a stone jar, and press it down as hard as you can ; put a bladder over the paper you cover it with, and tie it over quite tight; set it by, and in a month's time it will be fit for use. LEMON HONEY. Take three large ripe lemons, and roll them under your hand on a table to increase the juice. Kub oflf on a piece of loaf sugar the yellow rind or zest, scraping it up with a tea-spoon as you proceed, and put it aside in a saucer; then squeeze the juice of the lemons through a strainer upon 1 lb. of loaf sugar, and add the zest or grated rind. Cut up among the sugar rather more than J lb. of fresh butter; beat six eggs as light as possible, and mix in gradually the sugar and lemon, stirring all very hard; put these into a porce- lain kettle, and boil till it becomes of the consistence of thick honey, stirring all the while. If the weather is warm add a table- spoonful of arrowroot or sifted flour. When done put it into jars, and cover them closely. It will keep good a month or more in a dry, cool place. If made in winter it will continue good ior two months. LEMON HONEYCOMB. Take the juice of one lemon, sweeten it according to your taste, and put it in the dish in which you intend to serve it; beat up the white of an egg, then mix it with a pint of rich cream and a little sugar, whisk it, and as the froth rises put it on the lemon juice. It should be made the day before it is wanted. LEMON ICE WITH WINE. Squeeze the juice from as many lemons as will yield i lb., which filter through blotting paper; then put 1^ lb. of fine sugar, with a bottle of white wine and half the quantity of water, on the fire. When it has boiled up three or four times add the juice to it, and having boiled that also the same number of times, put in as much tincture of saffron as will tinge it of a fine yellow colour. Strain and finish the ice as usual. LEMON JELLY (1). Set a pint and a half of clarified sugar on the fire, and dilute it with a little water. When it boils, and has been well skimmed, put in 2 ozs. of clarified isinglass, with a little lemon-peel cut very thin; let these boil tiU you have squeezed through a sieve inter a basin the juice of six lemons ; then add your sugar and isinglass to it, and set it in a mould or any other jelly. When turned out garnish it with dried jellies. LEMON JELLY (2). Take five large lemons, squeeze out the juice from them, and add to it the whites of six eggs well beaten, 10 ozs. of double-refined sugar beaten till very fine, and twenty spoonsful of spring water; mix all we^l together, strain it through a jelly bag, set it over a gentle fire, skim it well, and when it is hot (it must not boil) take it off, and pour it into glasses, with shreds of lemon-peel. LEMON JUICE. {See Citric Acid.) The liquid obtained from lemons by moderate pres- sure. This juice is sharp, but very gratefully acid. It consists principally of citric acid, mucilage, extractive matter, and a small pro- portion of sugar and water. The simple juice soon spoils, and therefore the crystallised acid is generally used in its stead. It is refrigerant and antiseptic. Diluted with water, and sweet- ened, it forms the beverage called lemonade, which is extremely useful for quenching thirst, and abating the heat in various diseases. Given alone, to the extent of a table-spoonful for a dose, it allays hysterical palpitations of the heart; and in combination with carbonate of potash (half a fluid ounce of the juice to one scruple of the salt), taken in a state of effervescence, is used with great success to stop vomiting. A more useful and pleasant effervescing draught may be made by putting a table-spoonful of lemon juice, mixed with a small quantity of sugar, into a tumbler, and pouring over it half a pint of soda water. Lemon juice is success- fully used in sea scurvy ; but its continued use is said, notwithstanding, to be hurtful to the general health of the sailors. LEMON JUICE: To Keep. Keep the lemons two or three days in a cool place. If too unripe to squeeze readily, cut the peel off some, and roll them under your hand : they will then part with their juice more readily. Others you may leave unpared for grating when the pulp has been taken out, and they have been dried. Squeeze the juice into a china basin, then strain it through some muslin, taking care that none of the pulp passes through. Have some half and quarter-ounce phials, be careful that they are perfectly dry, and fill them with lemon juice; fill them so near the top as only to admit half a tea-spoonful of sweet oil into each, cork the bottles, and set them upright in a cool place. If you make use of larger phials you must put in rather more than half a tea-spoon- ful of sweet oil. When you want the lemon juice open such a sized bottle as you will iise in two or three days, wind some clean cotton round a skewer, and, dipping it in, the oil will be attracted, and when all is removed the juice will be as good as when first bottled. Hang the peels up to dry, and keep them in a place free from dust. LEMON KISSES. Take three large ripe lemons, and rub off the yellow rinds upon some pieces belonging to 1 lb. of fine loaf sugar;