URI UMB [ 518 ] UMBLES OF DEER: To Deess. Take a deer's kidney and the fat of the heart, and season them with pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; fiy and stew them in gravy till they are tender, add a little lemon juice, and stuff the skirts with forcemeat made of the fat of the venison, some grated bread, bacon, pepper, mace, sage, and onion, mixed with the yolk of egg; tie the stuffed skirts to the spit, and roast them, after strewing over them thyme and lemon-peel. When done lay them in the middle, and the liicassee round them. URINE, BLOODY (Hematuria). This is a discharge of blood from the vessels of the kidneys or bladder, occasioned by their being either enlarged or injured. It is more or less dangerous according to the different circum- stances which attend it. When pure blood is voided suddenly, without interruption and without pain, it proceeds fi'om the kidneys ; but if the blood be in small quan- tity, of a dark colour, and emitted with heat and pain about the bottom of the belly, it proceeds from the bladder. When bloody urine is occasioned by a rough stone descending fi-om the kidneys to the bladder, which wounds the ureter, it is attended with a sharp pain in the back, and difficulty of making water. If the coats of the bladder are hurt by a stone, and the bloody urine follows, it is attended with the most acute pain, and a previous stoppage of urine. Bloody urine may likewise be occasioned by falls, blows, the lifting or carrying of heavy burdens, hard riding, or any violent motion. It may also proceed from ulcers of the bladder, from a stone lodged in the kidneys, or from violent purges, or sharp diuretic medicines, especially cantharides. Bloody urine is always attended with some degree of danger; but it is peculiarly so when mixed with purulent matter, as this shows an ulcer somewhere in the urinary passages. Some- times this discharge proceeds from excess of blood, in which case it is rather to be considered as a salutary evacuation than a disease. If the discharge, however, be very great, it may waste the patient's strength, and occasion an ill habit of body, a dropsy, or a consumption. The treatment of this disorder must be varied according to the different causes from which it proceeds. When it is owing to a stone in the bladder the cure depends upon an operation, a description of which would be foreign to our purpose. If it be attended with a plethora and symp- toms of inflammation, bleeding will be necessary. The body must likewise be kept open by emol- lient clysters or cooling purgative medicines, as cream of tartar, rhubarb, manna, or small doses of lenitive electuary. When bloody urine proceeds from blood dis- solved in it before it reaches the bladder, this is commonly the symptom of some malignant disease, as the small pox, a putrid fever, or the like. When there is reason to suspect an ulcer in the kidneys or bladder the patient's diet must be cool, and his drink of a demulcent, healing, balsamic quality, as decoctions of marsh-mallow roots with liquorice, solutions of gum arabic, &c. Three ounces of marsh-mallow roots and ^ oz. of liquorice may be boiled in two English quarts of water to one ; 2 ozs. of gum arabic and ^ oz. of purified nitre may be dissolved in the strained liquor, and a tea-cupful of it taken four or live times a day. The early use of astringents in this disease has often bad consequences. When the flux is stopped too soon, the grumous blood, by being confined in the vessels, may produce inflamma- tions, abscess, and ulcers. If, however, the case be urgent, or the patient seems to suffer from the loss of blood, gentle astringents may be necessary. In this case the patient may take 3 ozs. or 4 ozs. of lime water, with oz. of the tincture of Peruvian bark, throe times a day; or he may take 1 oz. or 2 ozs. of the conserve of roses three or four times a day, drinking a tea- cupful of the tincture of roses after it; or. if stronger styptics be necessary, ] drachm of Armenian bole in a cup of whey may be taken three or four times a day, or the an- nexed:—Take purified alum, ^ scruple; kino in powder, 5 grains. Make a powder, to be taken three times a day. URINE, EXCESSIVE. &e Diabetes. URINE, SUPPRESSION OF. DifBculty of passing the urine is seldom attended with much danger, unless through neglect it should terminate in total suppression, which must always be regarded as a dangerous complaint when it continues for any length of time, from the great distention of the bladder, and often consequent inflammation which ensue. When the difficulty of passing the urine has arisen in consequence of a blister, which is sometimes the case, the patient should drink plentifully of linseed tea, decoction of mallows, or barley water. When it proceeds from any other cause, besides the means just mentioned, flannels wrung out of a warm decoction of emollient herbs, or a bladder filled with warm water, should be kept constantly applied over the seat of the bladder; and emollient clysters should be frequently injected, to which 1 drachm of the tincture of opium may be added, as in every instance of this complaint, whether arising from stricture, gravel, inflammation, or