0 RA [ 273 ] OKA it in a solation of double-refined sugar in water till it becomes tender and transparent. ORANGE-PEEL: To Preserve. Cut the oranges in halves, take out the pulp, put the peels in strong salt and spring water to soak for three days, and repeat this three times; then put them on a sieve to dry. Take 1 lb. of loaf sugar, add to it one quart of spring water, boil it, and skim it until quite clear; let the peels simmer until they are quite transparent, and dry them before the fire. Take loaf sugar, with just sufficient water to dissolve it; whilst the sugar is boiling put in the peels, stirring con- tinually until all the sugar is candied round them , then set them to dry either before the lire or in the oven, and when perfectly dried put them by for use. ORANGE-PEEL RATAFIA. Put the peels of a dozen thick-skinned oranges into a gallon of brandy ; dissolve 2 lbs. of sugar in the juice of the oranges, add to it the brandy, and, having stirred them together well, close the vessel tightly, and leave it for a month; then strain it off and bottle it. ORANGE-PEEL SYRUP. Take 3 ozs. of the fresh outside rind of Seville oranges, and a pint and a half of boiling water. Infuse for a night in a close vessel, then strain the liquor, and let it settle. Having poured it off clear from the sediment, dissolve therein 2 lbs. of double- refined sugar, and make it into a syrup, taking care that the fire be slow. This syrup, if the sugar is dissolved with a gentle heat, will have a greater proportion of the flavour of the peel. ORANGE POSSET. Squeeze the juice of two Seville oranges into a china bowl, or small deep dish that will hold about a quart, sweeten it like syrup, and add a little brandy. Boil one pint of cream with a little orange-peel. When cold put the cream into a teapot, and pour it to the syrup, holding it high. It must be made the day before it is wanted. ORANGE PUDDING. Put 6 ozs. of fresh butter and 8 ozs. of lump sugar, pounded, in a mortar; then grate in the rind of a Seville orange, and beat the whole well together: as you do it add the whole of eight eggs well beaten and strained. Scrape a hard apple, and mix it with the other ingredients; lay paste at the bottom of the dish, put in the mixture, and then put over it cross-bars of paste. Half an hour will be sufficient to bake it. ORANGE PUFFS (1). Pare the rinds of some Seville oranges, rub them with salt, and let them lie twenty-four hours in water; boil them in four changes of water, making the first salt; then drain and beat the oranges to a pulp, bruise in all the pieces that have been pared, make the whole sweet with white sugar, and boil it till thick. Let it stand till cold, and then put it into the paste. This may also be made in the same way as Lemon Puffs. ORANGE PUFFS (2). Peel four large oranges, add 2 lbs. of sifted sugar, pound it with the peels, and make it into a stiti paste with the addition of a strong infusion of gum dragon. Beat it again, roll it out, cut it into any shape, and bake it in a cool oven. ORANGE SAUCE. Put into a stewpan half a glass of stock, the same of gravy, a slice of ham, some small pieces of orange-peel, about ^ oz. of butter rolled in flour, salt, and pepper. Simmer these over the fire till thick, and then add the juice of an orange. ORANGE SYRUP. Squeeze the oranges, and strain the juice from the pulp into a large pot; boil it up with H lb. of fine sugar to a pint of juice, strain it well, and let it stand till it is cold, when it should be immediately bottled, corked, and sealed : keep it in a cool place. This is very fine for flavoming cakes, puddings, sweet sauces, &c., or for mixing with ice-water as a pleasant beverage ; also for ice- cream or water-ice when oranges are not to be had. ORANGE TARTS. Take six or seven fine large sweet oranges, roll them under your hand on a table to increase the juice, and then squeeze them through a strainer over 1^ lb. of powdered loaf sugar. Mix the orange juice and the sugar thoroughly together, but use none of the peel. Break twelve eggs into a lai-ge shallow pan, and beat them till thick and smooth; then stir in gradually the orange juice and sugar. Have ready a sufficiency of the best puff paste, roll it out thin, and line some patty pans with it, having first buttered them inside ; then fill them with the orange mixture, and set them immediately into a rather bi'isk oven. Bake the tarts a little brown, and when done set them to cool. When quite cold take them out of the patty pans, put them on a large dish, and grate sugar over their tops. ORANGE WATER. Put a gallon and a half of brandy and a quart of white wine to the outer rinds of fifty oranges; steep them one night, and next day distil them in a cold still. Draw the liquor off till it begins to taste sour ; then sweeten it with double-refined sugar, and mix the first, second, and third runnings together. Cork it tightly for use. ORANGE-'WATER ICE. Rasp a sweet orange, and squeeze out the juice of three, with that of one lemon, adding thereto a couple of glasses of syrup and half a pint of water; pass it through a sieve, and freeze it till thick and rich. Any fresh fruit may be done much in the same manner. ORANGE WINE fl). One dozen of oranges to one gallon of water and 3^ lbs. of fine loaf