LIN LIN : ] use for which they are destined. The yard-wide linens are not thought so strong and well made as those of the narrower width, but the latter will not always cut out to the same advantage as the wider linens. We advise a large stock of linen, because, if properly attended to, it will last as long again as a small quantity frequently replenished. Those sheets which return from the wash should be looked over, aired, and placed at the bottom of the pile, in either a dry closet or a linen chest. We have found that, on all accounts, it is better to put one clean sheet on the beds very frequently than a pair more seldom : the linen is thus oftener under the eye of a mistress, the appearance of a bed is neater when it is turned down, and the delicious contact of fresh linen is more frequently enjoyed. The luxury of one clean sheet every week is surely greater than that of a pair once a fortnight. On the first appearance of flimsiness in the texture of sheets they should be turned sides into the middle ; on the next symptom of waning the ends should be turned to the middle, and thus, by timely attention, the un sightli- ness of pieced sheets never annoys ; for, by the time that they again look poor, they ought to be cut up for glass cloths, tea cloths, and dusters, as Irish linen never becomes fluey. We loathe those blue and white checked dusters, that look like bits of Noah's bed-curtains. Besides, cotton is mixed with the linen, and the former material is always a nuisance among furniture. Full-sized sheets should measure three yards and a half in length, and two yards and a half wide; children's sheets three yards long and two wide. Linen of all descriptions should be marked with permanent ink. To restore scorched linen, boil to a good con- sistence in half a pint of vinegar 2 ozs. of fullers' earth, 1 oz. of hen's dung, | oz. of yellow soap, and the juice of two onions. Spread this composition over the scorched part, and, if the threads are not actually burnt through, it will remove all traces of the scorch- ing, the linen appearing as white and perfect as before the accident. The composition must dry upon the linen, which will, perhaps, require a couple of washings before all traces of the scorching disappear. LING. This fish resembles the cod ; but its scales are finer, and of a light slate colour. It is generally cooked in the same manner as cod, and is much esteemed. LING: To Choose. Ling is to be chosen by its thickness and colour: that which is thickest about the head is best, and the true colour is a fine pale yellow. It should have a soft even skin, and part from the bone regularly, and Ihere should be some mellowness in the flesh. When the skin is rough, and the whole fish very hard and dry, it is not good. These rules will serve also for judging of all kinds of salted fish whatever. LINIMENT is a medical preparation of a consistence between an ointment and an oil, but so thin as to drop. Liniments are used only as external applications. The follow- ing are very useful:— Liniment of Ammonia. Take of solution of ammonia 1 fluid oz.; olive oil, 2 fluid ozs. Shake them together till they unite. This lini- ment may be made at any time more mild by the addition of a larger proportion of oil. This is an excellent rubefacient, and is efl&- caciously employed in inflammatory sore throat, and to relieve rheumatic pains, rubbed upon the skin over the part affected. It is also very use- ful in various complaints of horses and cattle. Liniment of Camphor. Take of camphor ^ oz.; olive oil, S2 fluid ozs. Dissolve the camphor in the oil. This is a very useful application to glandular swellings, sprains, bruises, and to joints affected with rheumatic pains. It has also been re- commended, with the addition of ^ oz. of the solution of subcarbonate of potash, to be ap- plied to the eyelids night and morning in recent giitta serena. Compound Liniment of Camphor is likewise a veiy useful stimulant to sprains, bruises, and rheumatic pains. It is also an excellent vehicle for introducing opium into the habit by means of friction. One fluid ounce and a half of this liniment, and h fluid oz. of tincture of opium, warmed and rubbed over the surface of the abdo- men, quickly allays the pains of flatulent colic ; or 2 fluid drachms of the rectified oil of amber, mixed with the same quantity of camphor lini- ment, will be sometimes of equal, if not of superior eSicacy, laid on flannel, and applied to the part affected in the same complaint. Liniment of Lime. Take lime water and olive or linseed oil, of each 3 fluid ozs. Mix them. This is very advantageously applied to burns and scalds. Liniment of Soap. Take of Castile soap 3 ozs.; camphor, 1 oz.; spirit of rosemary, 1 pint. Dissolve the camphor in the spirit, then add the soap, and macerate in the heat of a sand bath until they be dissolved. This is that medicine so long known to the public under the name of opodeldoc. It is stimulant and anodyne, and may be advan- tageously applied against local pains and in bruises, rubbed upon the part. The above is the form of making this medi- cine directed by the London College ; but the following is a cheaper, and perhaps equally