MUX [ 240 ] MUX Bome days with the usual seasoning. When nearly done take it out, and mix some sweet herbs shred small with grated bread; cover the mut- ton with this, lay it on the gridiron, and broil it slowly, moistening it occasionally with a little of the braise liquor. When quite done dish it. Serve with a cullis and vinegar or verjuice. MUTTON, SHOULDER OF (en Epi- gramme). Roast the shoulder till it is nearly done; then take off the skin about the thick ness of a crown piece, and also the shank-bone. Season both these with pej)per, salt, a little lemon-peel cut small, sweet herbs, and bread crumbs. Lay the meat on the gridiron till it is brown; then cut the other part, as for a hash, in very small pieces. Put the gravy on it, with a few spoonsful of stock, some nutmeg, half an onion cut small, a bundle of herbs, pepper, salt, some gherkins cut small, a few mushrooms, two or three truffles, two spoonsful of wine, and a little flour. Stew these slowly without boiling five or six minutes, take out the herbs, and pour the hash into a dish, with the broiled meat upon it. Garnish with pickles. MUTTON, SHOULDER OF (with Rice). Half boil a shoulder of mutton, then put it in a stewpan, with two quarts of mutton gravy, |- lb. of rice, a tea-spoonful of mushi'oom powder, and a little broken mace, and let it stew till the rice is tender; then take up the mutton, and keep it hot; put to the rice half a pint of cream, and a bit of butter rolled in flour; stir it well round the pan, and let it boil a few minutes. Lay the mutton in the dish, and serve it over the rice. MUTTON, SHOULDER OF (Roasted). Run the spit in close to the shank, and pass it along the bladebone, which last will make a good relish for supper, scored, salted, peppered, and broiled, or done in a Dutch oven. Serve with onion sauce. MUTTON, SHOULDER OF (Salted and Boiled). Bone a shoulder of mutton. If large take 4 ozs. of common salt, the same quantity of coarse sugar, mixed with a dessert-spoonful of pounded cloves, half that quantity of pepper, and a little pounded mace and ginger. Rub them well into the mutton, turning it well every day for a week; then roll it up tightly, and boil it gently for three or four hours in a quart of water, with a carrot, turnip, onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Serve it with some of its own gravy, thickened and highly flavoured, or with any piquant sauce; or it may be served up smothered with onions. This is very convenient to families who kill their own sheep. Captains of ships are recommended, when they have fresh mutton, to tow it overboard for some hours, and then lay it up in the shrouds. It ■will then be coated with briny particles, which will effectually keep in all the juices. MUTTON, SHOULDER OF, STEWED (1). Bone a shoulder of mutton with a sharp knife, and fill the space with the following stuffing :— Grated bread, minced suet, parsley, pepper, salt, and nutmeg: bind with the yolks of two eggs well beaten. Sew or fasten it with small skewers, and brown it in a frying-pan with a little butter. Break the bone, put it in a sauce- pan, with some water, an onion, pepper, salt, and a bunch of parsley. Let it stew till the strength be extracted. Strain and thicken it with butter rolled in flour; put it, with the mutton and a glass of port wine, into a sauce- pan ; cover it closely, and let it stew gently for two hours. Before serving add two table-spoons- ful of mushroom catsup. Garnish with pickles. MUTTON, SHOULDER OF, STEWED (2). Bone and flatten a shoulder of mutton, sprinkle over it pepper and salt, roll it up tightly, bind it with tape, and put it into a stewpan that will just hold it; pour over it a well-seasoned gravy made with the bones, cover the pan closely, and let it stew till tender. Before serving take off the tape, thicken the gravy, and garnish with cut pickles. MUTTON, SHOULDER OF (Stewed WITH Oysters). Let the shoulder hang for several days ; then salt it well for two days, bone it, and sprinkle it with pepper and a bit of mace pounded ; lay some oysters over, roll the meat up tightly, and tie it. Stew it in a little water, with an onion and a few peppercorns, till it is quite tender. Have ready a little good gravy, and some oysters stewed in it; thicken it with some flour and butter, and when the tape is taken off the mutton pour this sauce over it. Be careful to keep the stewpan closely covered. MUTTON, SLICES OF (en Chevreuil). Cut twelve thin slices of mutton neatly, and lard them with bacon ; let them soak in vinegar mixed with spices, a bunch of parsley, and an onion cut in slices, for three days. When you wish to use the meat cook it in a thick sauce till of a good colour, and serve it with a sauce d la poivrade. MUTTON, SLICES OF (with Cream). Cut a roasted loin of mutton into slices, which put into a stewpan ; chop up some small onions, stew them with J lb. of fresh butter and a little stock, and when nearly dissolved add half a pint of good cream, salt, and pepper. Let it boil five minutes ; then put in the slices of mutton, and make them quite hot, but they must not boil. Serve them quickly. MUTTON STEAKS: To Stew. Either cut them from the best end of a loin or the best part of a leg, season with pepper and salt, lay them in a stewpan with sliced onions, and cover them with water and gravy. When done on