PIG PIG [ 324 1 Fill the pot you mean to boil it in with soft water, and put in a bunch of sweet herbs, some peppercorns, cloves, mace, a handful of salt, and a pint of vinegar. When the liquor boils put in the pig, and let it boil till tender ; take it up, and when almost cold bind it over again ; put it in an earthen pan, pour the liquor that it was boiled in over it, and keep it covered. When you want to use it take it out of the pan, untie the fillet as far as you want to cut it, and then cut it in slices, which lay in your dish. Garnish with parsley. PIG DRESSED LIKE HOUSE LAMB. Take the fore-quarter of a pig about six weeks old, skin and truss it as a fore-quarter of lamb, floiir it, sprinkle it over with a little salt, and send it to table nicely frothed. W^ith mint sauce or salad it will eat like lamb. When it comes to table cut off the shoulder, and squeeze the juice of a Seville orange over it. The hind- quarter of it is very good roasted in the same wav. PIG EN GELATINE. Well scald a pig. bone it, and extend it on a linen cloth ; then lay over it a good meat stuffing, seasoned ac- cording to taste ; put over the stuffing, wliicli should be laid on about the thickness of a crown, first a layer of ham cut in thin slices, and then a layer of hard eggs; cover the layers ■with a little forcemeat, roll up the pig, being careful not to displace the layers, and cover it with thin slices of fat bacon, wrapping the whole in a filtering cloth; wind some pack- thread tightly round it, and let it boil for three hours in equal quantities of stock and white wine, adding salt and coarse pepper, some roots and onions, a large bunch of parsley, shallots, a clove of garlic, cloves, thyme, bay leaves, and basil. When done leave it to cool in the stock, and serve cold. You may add, if you think proper, a layer of truffles. PIG IN JELLY. Take a pig, and cut it into quarters, which put into a stewpan, with a pint of Rhenish or Lisbon wine, a quart of water, a little lemon-peel, and a few cloves : let it stew over a slow fire for two hours. After it has stewed this time take it up, lay the pig in a dish, sti-ain the liquor, and when it is cold skim off the fat, leaving the settlijigs at the bottom ; warm the jelly again, and pour it over the pig. Serve it up cold in the jelly. PIG OLIVES. Bone and cut off the head of a fine pig, take a part of the flesh, and mince it with some beef suet; then pound these with some bread crumbs, parsley, shallots, mushrooms (all shred), and add sonre creiim, a spoonful of brandy, the yolks of six eggs, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Cut the skin of the pig into pieces, in each of which roll some of the farce; tie up the olives, and cook them in some stock ; add a glass of white wine and a few slices of peeled lemon. Serve the olives with any sauce you may think proper. PIG, ROASTED (Sauce for). Take a pint of water, put therein a good slice of crumb of bread, a blade of mace, and a little whole pepper ; boil these together for about five or six minutes, and then pour off the water ; remove the spices, and beat up the bread with a piece of butter and a little milk or cream. To this currants may also be added, if approved of, by boiling them in a glass of wine and a little sugar; or put to half a pint of good beef gravy, and that which comes from the pig, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and two spoonsful of catsup ; boil them together; then take the brains of the pig, bruise ihem with sage, and pour the whole into your dish. PIG, ROASTING: ToCarye. SeeCxsvim: Pig, Roasted. PIG, ROULADES OF Scald a fine suck- ing pig, and having cut off the head and feet, bone and cut it into quarters; make a force- meat with grated bacon, bread crumbs, parsley, shallots, mushrooms (shred small), three yolks of eggs, pepper, and salt, put some of this on each quarter, roll and tie them up, and braise them in white wine stock. When done take them out, skim and strain the sauce, add to it a little cullis and lemon juice, and pour it over the roulades. PIG, SUCKING (Roasted). A sucking pig IS in prime order for the spit when it is about three weeks old. It loses part of its goodness every hour after it is killed : if not quite fresh no art can make the crackling crisp. PIG, SUCKING. To Scald. The instant the pig is killed put it for a few minutes in cold water ; then pound a little resin extremely fine, rub the pig all over with it, and then put it for half a minute into a pail of scalding water ; take it out, lay it on a table, and pull off the hairs as quickly as possible: if any part does not come off put it in again. When quite clean off wash it well with warm water, and afterwards in two or three cold waters, that no flavour of the resin may remain. Take off all the feet at the first joint, make a slit down the belly, and tal^e out the entrails ; put the liver, heart, and lights to the feet. Wash the pig well in cold water, dry it thoroughly, and fold it in a wet cloth to keep it from the air. PIG, SUCKING: To Stuff. Having scalded a pig, singe and bone it to the head, which leave whole. Take 1 lb. of calf's liver and 1 lb. of bacon; mince these with a little sage, pounded spice, aromatic herbs, salt, and pepper; fill up the body of the pig with this; also roll in it some lardons, and lard the limbs and back of the pig , sew in the farce, and rub the whole body with lemon; lay in a cloth somo