[ 156 ] LIV LI V The usual symptoms of inflammation of the livei- are pain on the right side, often pungent, as in pleurisy, but sometimes dull; pain in the collar-bone, and at the top of the right shoulder; uuea^y lying on the left side, difficult breathing, cough, and vomiting. There is frequently, also, some degree of jaundice. This disease, if properly treated, is seldom attended with fatal consequences. It is some- times carried off by a copious bleeding from the nose, or by the hemorrhoidal vessels ; also by sweating, a looseness, or by an evacuation of urine which deposits a copious sediment. Its most favourable termination is by resolution; and this is effected by bleeding, leeching, or cupping, according to the violence of the symp- toms, and by the application of blisters, purga- tives, fomentations, &c. After bleeding has been used a proper dose of submuriate of mercury, with jalap or scam- mony, should be administered, repeating it every other day until the symptoms of inflam- mation subside; giving, in the meantime, saline medicines, &c., to keep up a discharge on the skin. These measures being adopted, several keches may be applied over the region of the liver, or a sufficient quantity of blood may be drawn off by means of the scarificator and cup- ping-glasses ; and then, if the symptoms do not abate after using these means, a large blister, applied over the seat of the liver, will probably prove serviceable, which may be followed by another, should it heal up too soon. Should suppuration take place it is danger- ous ; but sometimes the matter points outwardly, the ulcer heals, and the consequences are pre- vented, or cure promoted, by the Peruvian bark, to which a few drops of elixir of vitriol may be added. In the chronic form of this disease general bleeding is never necessary. The ordinary plan of cure in this state of the disease is by means of mercury, given in small doses, and slowly and externally, by means of friction, so as to keep up a coppery taste in the mouth for some time, as it promotes the secretion of bile, and excites the minute vessels in the surface. To increase, however, this latter effect, it has been found advantageous to unite with the mer- cury a small proportion of antimonial powder, as well as of opium, to protect the bowels fx'om irritation. To keep up the regular peristaltic motion of the intestines, &c., one or two of the following pills may be taken occasionally at bedtime:—Take compound extract of colo- cynth, ] drachm; -submuriate of mercury, 1 scruple ; tartarised antimony, 4 grains ; oil of caraway, 7 drops; cinnamon syrup, a sufficient quantity to form the mass, which is to be made into thirty pilla. The following draught, which is also given in acute inflammation of the liver, for the purpose of keeping the bowels gently open, may be taken:—Take infusion of senna, 1^ oz.; Epsom salts, 3 drachms; tincture of jalap and syrup of buckthorn, of each 1 drachm. Mix for a draught. There are few afflicted with liver complaints who will not avail themselves of proper advice and medical treatment, for which reason we purposely omit detailing the various means that are adopted in the plan of cure, particularly the use of mercury, which always requires the ut- most skill and judgment in the administration of it. In the chronic stage of inflammation of the liver a continued course of bitter tonics and aperients, as taraxacum, gentian root, quassia, calumba, with soda, are advised ; and the nitric acid of modern chemists has been recommended. Flannel worn next the skin, the flesh brush, removal from a cold to a warm climate, &c., are calculated to effect healthy changes, as auxiliaries to an alterative course of medicine in the chronic stage of this complaint. LIVER WITH PARSLEY SAUCE. Wash the liver (which should be quite fresh) of a fowl or rabbit, and boil it for ten minutes in five table-spoonsful of water; chop it fine, or pound or bruise it in a small quantity of the liquor it was boiled in, and rub it through a sieve ; wash about one-third its bulk of parsley, boil it in a little boiling water with a tea- spoonful of salt in it; lay it on a hair sieve to drain, and chop it very fine ; mix it with the liver, put it into a quarter of a pint of melted butter, and warm it up. Do not let it boil. LIVER PUDDING. Parboil and grate lib. of liver and 1 lb. of suet; soak ^ lb. of bread in a pint of cream or milk, and mix it with spices and sweet herbs. If eggs are to be used it may be made more liquid. Grits may be used in- stead of bread or any other seasoning, with cooked onions, and as much minced suet as liver ; add the milk or cream'^ spices, and sweet herbs ; mix in the liver, and test it. If it is rather thin add an egg or two, or a few crumbs; if too thick, a little milk. LIVER SAUCE. Take the livers of poultry or game, and chop them veiy small, with parsley, scallions, tarragon leaves, and shallots; soak them in a little butter over the fire, and then pound them ; add cullis stock, pepper, and salt; give the whole a boil with two glasses of red wine, coriander, cinnamon, and sugar; reduce, strain it, and thicken it with a bit of butter rolled in flour. Serve in a sauce-boat, LIVER SAUCE FOR BOILED CHICK- ENS. Boil the livers of chickens till you can