LEE LEE t 134 ], finger. This informatiou is valuable, at least if tbe plan prove generally successful, in cases where leeches are required close to an important part, as near the eye, or on the gums, &c. ; but it is to bo feared that the quill would be as likely to fail as the common leech-glass, both being used on the same principle, and the latter being confessedly an inefifective instrument. The pain of biting generally ceases in a short time after the leech has adhered; but if the patient be so placed as that the leech hangs as it were from the point of adhesion, the pain is in some individuals increased, and continues till the leech falls off. Leeches should not remain on the part for more than ten or fifteen minutes. If they do not then fall off it will be found that they have been sluggish, and are not full; and the same thing will be shown by the want of that vermi- cular motion on the neck of the leech, which is so perceptible when it draws vigorously. In these cases it may often be made more active by touching its head with vinegar. As it sometimes happens that leeches, when indolent, will thus remain on the part for hours, it is better to remove them if they are indisposed to suck. This may be done by the application of a very little salt to their heads; and, as the after-bleeding is generally more advantageous than the drawing of the leech itself, very little loss is sustained by removing them before they are filled with blood. Treatment of leeches after their removal. Great waste is occasioned by unskilfulness in attending to leeches after they fall off. By proper care they may be made to act again and again; for, when it is considered that blood is the natural food of leeches, it must follow that some fault in our treatment causes their death, and not their having made a hearty meal on food that is natural to them, , It may happen, indeed, that the blood in certain states of disease acts as a poison, and destroys them, many persons having stated that they fall off dead, in some cases, before any application is made to them; but this is at least problematical, and perhaps unlikely. The common practice of covering them with salt is almost always destructive ; and even by sprinkling a small quantity on their bodies, if death do not follow, it generally happens that the leech is blistered by the salt, and made incapable of acting again for a consider- able time. Squeezing out the blood is better than the application of salt in any form ; but the best mode is to touch them with vinegar, which, if spai-ingly applied, will make them vomit, so that they may be re applied again immediately, even to the third or fourth time, or, by re- turning them into clean water, be ready for another occasion. When leeches are treated in this way, and especially if they be allowed to keep perhaps a fourth part of the blood which they have swallowed, they are not only capable of acting repeatedly, but in skilful hands may be made to gi'ow to an immense size. Under one gentleman's care a set of leeches were in this way preserved for a great length of time, and at last they grew to the length of nearly eight inches. It was want of care that destroyed them even after all this. These leeches were not once emptied of their blood, and yet they often were used again at an in- terval of only a few days. It is an eiToneous idea to suppose that leeches die if they are not emptied of their blood ; the only inconvenience of permitting them to retain it all is, that they then remain inactive, and incapable of being used for a longer time than if treated differently. Encouraging the bleeding after the leeches have fallen off. This is generally done by cover- ing the bites with sponge or cloths wrung out of warm water. In many cases this is a very good plan, because it subjects the part to a useful kind of emollient fomentation, as when the leeches are applied for local external inflammations, such as of joints or other parts, or to tumours. In other cases, however, this fomentation is not so useful, as when leeches are applied to the head for the headache, or for the hydroce- phalus of children. On such occasions it is a good plan to bind a napkin round the bleeding part, and change it as often as it may be neces- sary ; or in hydrocephalus to resume the use of any cold application to the head, which will generally form part of the treatment. It is true that, by so doing, the bleeding is sooner stopped ; but this difficulty is obviated by applying more leeches in the first instance, which will secure the proper quantity of blood being drawn, and at less trouble to the patient. The difficulty of stopping the bleeding of leeches forms no objection to this plan, because with very moderate attention the bites of leeches may always be commanded. Another method of encouraging the bleeding of leeches is to apply a warm bread-and-water poultice over the bites, and change it once in about five minutes. This answers very well if care be taken not to apply the poultice too hot, for it often happens that the bleeding of leeches is in this way prematurely arrested. When it is desirable to take away as much blood as possible, and the part will admit of it, a cupping-glass applied over the leech bites will increase the bleeding very much. Of course