PHE [ 320 J PHE entrails, &c., through the crop. Take 1J lb. of trufHes, clean and pick them, cut them into pieces about the size of a nut, and mince the trim- mings very small; put ^ lb. of grated bacon, ^ lb. of butter, and the same of olive oil in a sauce- pan ; set them on the fire, and when hot put in the truffles; give them a few turns, then add a little salt, pepper, and spices; in about five minutes throw in the minced trimmings for a minute or two, then take off the pan, and when cold fill your pheasant with this through the crop; lay a very thin piece of bacon on the aper- ture, draw the skin over, truss the bird, tie it so that the truffles cannot escape, and put it between slices of bacon into a saucepan ; pour some poelee on it without the lemon juice, cover it with a piece of buttered paper, and let it simmer for an hour; then drain, untie it carefully, and place it on a dish. Mince two truffles, and give them a few turns in some butter, three ladlesful of Espagnole, and the same of fumet of game; reduce the sauce to half, and strain, and pour it on the bird. PHEASANT PIE, HOT RAISED. Take a couple of pheasants that have hung for some days, and, when picked and singed, cut them up, and give them a few turns in herbs. In the meantime make a raised crust about seven inches in diameter, and four in height, but smaller in the middle than at the top or bottom ; on the bottom and sides of this spread some good godiveau or fine farce, with two truffles minced small , lay the legs and back of the pheasants on this, then four or five truffles, each cut in half, then place the fillets and breast, more truffles, and so on till the birds are in ; pour over them the herbs in which they are cooked, cover the whole with two bay leaves and some slices of bacon, lay a paste on the top, ornament the exterior of the pie according to your fancy, and put into a brisk oven. Let the pie remain in the oven an hour and a half, drain off the fat, and pour in an Espagnole, with some minced truffles ; glaze the crust, and send it to table as soon as possible after it is taken out of the oven. PHEASANT PIE, STANDING. Bone three fine pheasants which have hung for some days, and lard them with lardons; then lay them open on the table, season with spiced salt, put in each two spoonsful of farce and a few truffles, and sew up each in the form of a ball. Take a stewpan the size you want to have your pie, line it completely with slices of ham and bacon^ on which lay the pheasants and a noix of veal, tied up that the form may be preserved ; add to these a sufficient quantity of spiced salt, the bones of the pheasants, some cuttings of veal and truffles, four onions stuck with three cloves, two carrots, a large bunch of parsley and scallions, a bay leaf, basil, thyme, a glass of Spanish wine, two ladlesful of good consomme, and four of other broth skimmings ; take care that your meat is covered with the liquor, put a buttered paper over the whole, and set it on the fire. "When it has boiled a few minutes take it off, put the saucepan on the stove, with fire on the lid, and leave it for an hour boiling constantly. When quite cold take out each article, adding the ham and bacon to a farce. Raise youj- crust as usual, and put into it a quarter of the farce; make it smooth, and having untied the veal, lay that in the pie ; strew a little spiced salt over, a third of the remaining farce, and four truffles, each cut in two; then take the threads from the phea- sants, trim them a little that they may lie in the pie without injuring the shape; put in a pinch of spiced salt and some truffles, cover them with the rest of the farce, in which put more truffles cut in halves; then add the butter, bay leaves, &c. Three hours and a half are sufiicient to bake this pie. When taken out of the oven pour in the consomme, previously strained through a cloth, and close the hole with a piece of paste. PHEASANT, SOUFFLfi OF. This dish is prepared in the same manner as Partridge, Souffle of. PHEASANT WITH TRUFFLES. Hav- ing larded and dressed the fillets au Chevalier, take the nerves from the small fillets, make half a dozen incisions in each, into which put a piece of truffle, having cut some in thin round slices, and divided them again into halves. All the small fillets being thus garnished, form them into semicircles, and lay them, with a little salt and pepper, between two slices of bacon; set them on a stove, and fry them lightly. Drain your large fillets, glaze and place them on a dish over a saute of truffles, lay the small fillets in the centre, and serve. PHEASANTS : To Boit,. If they are small birds half an hour will be sufficient; but if large, three quarters. They must be boiled in plenty of water. Make a sauce by stewing some heads of celery cut finely, and thickened with cream and a small piece of butter rolled in flour. When the birds are done pour this sauce over them, and garnish with <?lices of lemon. PHEASANTS : To Choose. The hen phea- sant is most valued when with egg, in which state the vent is soft; but if this happens to be open and green she is stale, and the same is the case when the skin peels on being rubbed hard with the finger and thumb. The cock pheasavit only has spurs, which, when the bird is young, are short, blunt, and round ; but if old they are long and sharp. The feet of pheasant poults, when new, are supple, and the vents white and I