PIC [ 321 ] PHE stiff; but when stale the former are dry, and the latter green. PHEASANTS, CROQUETTES OF. Take the while meat from three pheasants (roasted), remove all the skin and nerves, and cut the meat into dice ; put a ladleful of bechamel into a saucepan, and reduce it to half; then add to it 2 ozs. of fresh butter, which must dissolve in the sauce without being put on the fire; strain it overthe minced pheasant,and season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Mix the whole together well, and when cold lay it in heaps nearly as large as an egg; give them what shape you please, roll them in bread crumbs, after which soak them a minute in eggs beaten up with salt and butter; bread them a second time, and fry the croquettes in the usual way. . PHEASANTS, SALMIS OF. Take two cold roasted pheasants, cut them up, trim the pieces properly, take off all the skin, and put the limbs into a stewpan. Put the remains of the phea- sants into another saucepan, with a glass of white wine, four shallots, a little Seville orange- peel, half a clove of garlic, half a bay leaf, four spoonsful of Espagnole travaillee, a little glaze, and a spoonful of consomme ; reduce these, and then strain the sauce over the phea- sant ; make it hot in the bain-marie, but do not let it boil. Lay the pheasant in a dish, the smallest pieces first, and the more considerable ones round, intermixed with fried bread; squeeze the juice of a Seville orange into the sauce, which pour over the bird. PHOSPHORUS is a substance obtained from bones, and especially distinguished by its shining like the glowworm in the dark. Cha- racters drawn on paper with solid phosphorus will appear like a flame in the dark, though, in the light, a dense smoke only will be per- ceptible ; and, if such paper be held near the fire, the letters will immediately become black, and continue to be as legible as those formed with ink. Great caution, however, ought to be observed in making such experiments, because, if a particle of phosphorus be rubbed between two papers, they will immediately take fire, which cannot be easily extinguished : hence it will be advisable to keep this inflammable matter con- tinually immersed under water. In commerce it is always packed in tin cylinders, soldered air tight. It is a powerful corrosive poison. In a medicinal view phosphorus has a re- markable effect on the human frame, and, when administered with judgment and circumspection, forms a very powerful and valuable remedy. According to continental writers it has proved ot essential service in paralytic, epileptic, melancholic, and maniacal attacks; in every species of eruptive fevers, particularly in those where the eruption strikes in, and is accompanied Vt»x. XI. with anxiety, convulsions, and other nervous symptoms. It is given in doses of 1 grain, mixed with conserve of roses, or with any of the syrups. Farther, a variety of cases have lately been published, where phosphorus was administered internally with the greatest suc- cess in consumptive diseases; in malignant fevers, where it effectually checked the progress of gangrene; and especially contributed to the recovery of persons who had been reduced by intemperance. So potent a medicine, however, ought to be employed only with the utmost cau- tion, and unde/ the immediate superintendence of a competent judge. Baldwins phosphorus is ignited chloride of calcium; Canton phosphorus, oyster shells cal- cined with sulphur; Bologna phosphorus, cal- cined sulphate of baryta; Homberg's phosphorus, ignited chloride of calcium. All these phos- phoresce in the dark, after exposure to the solar rays. PHOSPHOROUS PILLS are a very effi- cient poison for rats and mice. PICKLE, HOT. Infuse 1 oz. of horse- radish, the same of allspice, the same of black pepper, and the same of salt, in a quart of the best white wine vinegar, in a stove, on a trivet by the side of the fire, for three days, keeping it well closed. When cold pour the pickle over it. PICKLE, INDIAN. One gallon of vinegar, 1 lb. of garlic, J lb. of long pepper split, ^ lb. of flour of mustard, 1 lb. of ginger scraped and split, and 2 ozs. of turmeric. When you have prepared the spice, and put it into the jar, pour the vinegar boiling hot over it, and stir every day for a week; then put in your cabbage, cauliflower, or whatever you intend to pickle. PICKLE FOR MEAT. Six pounds of salt, 1 lb. of sugar, and 4 ozs. of saltpetre, boiled with four gallons of water, skimmed, and allowed to cool, forms a very strong pickle, which will preserve any meat completely immersed in it. To effect this, which is essential, either a heavy board or a flat stone must be laid upon the meat. The same pickle may be used repeatedly, provided it be boiled,up occasionally, with addi- tional salt to restore its strength, diminished by the combination of part of the salt with the meat, and by the dilution of the pickle by the juices of the meat extracted. By boiling, the albumen, which would cause the pickle to spoil, is coagu- lated, and rises in the form of scum, which must be carefully removed. An aitch-bone of 10 lbs. or 12 lbs. weight will require about | lb. of salt and 1 oz. of moist sugar to be well rubbed into it. It will bo ready in four or five days if turned and rubbed every day. The time meat requires salting depends upon the weight of it, and how much salt is used; X