-t 337 ] PLA PLA as a digestive, and likewise for discussing in- dolent tumours. Mercurial Plaster. Take of common plaster 1 lb.; gum ammoniac strained, i lb. Melt them together, and when cooling add 8 ozs. of quicksilver, previously extinguished by triture, with 3 ozs. cf hog's lard. This plaster is recommended in pains of the limbs arising from a venereal cause. Indurations of the glands and other indolent tumours are likewise found sometimes to yield to it. Stomach Plaster. Take of gum plaster ^ lb.; camphorated oil, l|oz.; black pepper, or capsiciica where it can be had, 1 oz. Melt the plaster, and mix with it the oil; then sprinkle in the pepper, previously reduced to a fine powder. An ounce or two of this plaster spread upon soft leather, and applied to the region of the stomach, will be of service in flatulencies arising from hysteric and hypo- chondriac affecticns. A little of the expressed oil of mace, or a few drops of the essential oil of mint, may be rubbed upon it before it is applied. This may supply the place of the anti-hysteric plaster. Warm Plaster. Take of gum plaster 1 oz.; blistering plaster, 2 drachms. Melt them to- gether over a gentle fire. This plaster is useful in the sciatica and other fixed pains of the rheumatic kind. It ought, however, to be worn for some time, and to be renewed at least once a week. If this is found to blister the part, which is sometimes the case, it must be made with a smaller proportion of the blistering plaster. Wax Plaster. Take of yellow wax 1 lb.; white resin, ^ lb.; mutton suet, f lb. Melt them together. This is generally used instead of the inelilot plaster. It is a proper application after blisters, and in other cases where a gentle digestive is necessary. PLATE. Mrs. Parkes, in her " Household Duties," has these excellent remarks upon plate:— The imperishable nature of plate, and the little intrinsic value which it loses by time, render its purchase less imprudent than if an equal sum were expended either in orna- mental glass or china. Yet attention should be paid to consistency in the purchase of plate. Some portion of plate is essential, and even economical, in every family; but whole services are exclusively the appendages of rank and affluence, and appear absolutely to require a correspondence in every particular throughout the establishment. That which is only con- sistently superb in the house and on the table of the nobleman would be absurd in the cottage or at the board of the tradesman. After the plate has been washed with hot water VOL. II. rub it over with a mixture of levigated harts- horn and spii'its of tuq)entlne, which should be permitted to d-y on the plate, which it will do in the course of a few minutes. Remember that two good-sized leathers are required for cleaning plate, one of which should be kept for rubbing off the hartshorn powder, and the other for polishing up the silver afterwards. This process should be performed twice a week ; but on other days merely rubbing with the leathers after washing will be sufficient. We have never seen any plate look better than that which was cleaned according to this direction, and there is nothing in the ingredients mentioned that can in the least injure the silver, which is sometimes the case with the nostrums that servants employ. The only thing to be strictly regarded by the servant who uses it is to rub it off so well that the plate shall not retain the slightest smell of the turpentine. The turpentine is useful in removing every particle of greasiness from the plate, which mere washing will not do. We have seen some plate cleaned with muriatic acid, which gives a very high polish, but also a deep colour to the plate, almost resembling steel. The hartshorli and turpentine give as good a polish as the acid, without injuring or changing the colour of the silver. Many people still prefer a mixture whiting and water, which cleans tolerably well, but does not renew the polish. When silver has, through neglect, become very dim and dirty-looking, it is necessary to boil it in soap and water for some little time, and afterwards the turpentine and hartshorn powder can be used to great advantage. And now let us give a caution against intrust- ing too much of it into the hands of servants. It is leading them into daily temptation, which at some unhappy moment they may not have resolution to resist. In the first place we suppose you to be provided with a proper plate chest, or to have appropriated a strong closet in which to keep the plate you do not require for daily use. In this closet there should be, besides the list of the whole stock, one which marks the quantity given out, so that after any occasional use of the whole you will have these ready to refer to while you are superintending the replacing of it in the strong chest. The plate which is in daily use should be intrusted to the care of the servant who has tho charge of cleaning it. This in some families devolves on the butler, in others on the foot- man, and on the housemaid where there are no men-servants. It should be counted over to them when it is first placed in their hands, and they should be made to feel responsible for its re-appearance when it is required. They should be instructed to count it over every night before z