KIT [ 1 outer wall; or to build a dry area, carried down below the level of the floor of the kitchen, which area should be ventilated and drained. The floor should be of rubbed Yorkshire stone, laid on brick walls, at least two courses of bricks high above the ground. If the foundation is damp, concrete a foot or two thick, composed of clean gravel and fresh-burned stone-lime, should be thrown in first, to form a foundation on which the walls should be built. To keep the floor dry air should be introduced, and made to cir- culate freely under it, for which purpose air- gratings should be fixed in all the outward walls, and openings for the air to pass through left in all the walls on which the paving is laid. The ceilings of all kitchens, however small, should be lathed on the under side of the joists, and plastered; for if this is not done, and only the space between the joists plastered, the effluvia arising from the cooking collect and remaim between the joists, in spite of all the ventilation that can be given: the spaces be- tween the joists also afford shelter for flies, spiders, &c. As the ceilings of kitchens should be scraped, cleaned, and whitened (or coloured) every year, the expense of plastering is soon repaid by the diminution of the surface, the sides of the joists making a surface of one and a half times more than the whole ceiling. The kitchen doors should always be made to open towards the fireplace, otlierwise the opening and shutting of them will be likely to cause the chimney to smoke by disturbing the current of the air. The fireplace should be capacious in pro- portion to the quantity of cooking required; and it should be from four feet to eight or nine feet wide, and never less than two bricks and a half, or one foot ten inches and a half deep. Large fireplaces should be from two feet three inches to two feet seven inches and a half in depth; the range can then have a proper boiler at the back, supplied with water by a pipe from the main cistern, and regulated by a small feed- ing cistern, so that the boiler will be always full of water. Where this plan is adopted there will be a supply of hot, if not boiling water, at night as well as all day. In lai-ge kitchens there should be a hot plate and stoves for made dishes and preserves on one side of the fireplace, and a boiler on the other. These should be covered over, at the height of six or seven feet, by a projection or canopy from the wall, open in front, and communicating with a flue for carry- ing off the steam and effluvia from the meat. There should be one or two large closets in the kitchen in a very diy situation, from three feet to four feet wide, and at least eighteen inches deep, for holding spices and other things that may be wanted by the cook. 5 ] KIT The principal articles of furniture required in a kitchen are, a table as large as the size of the apartment will allow, and made very strong, and a dresser or dressers. The tops of these dressers should be two inches thick, and the drawers about two feet wide, and seven inches in depth. The space under the drawers is some- times inclosed with doors, and sometimes open, having a pot board the whole width and length of the dresser, and raised three or four inches from the floor. There should be good locks on one or two of the drawers, and two iron or japanned handles fixed on each. A mill for coffee, one for pepper, and another for the finer spices, may be fixed to the ends of the dressers. Ranges of rails, furnished with hooks, should be fixed to the wall for the dish covers; and round or jack-towel rollers should be attached to the backs of the doors. There should be an ash-grate and pit made under the fireplace, that the ashes may drop through the ash-grate into the pit, an^ leave the cinders over it, which may thus be taken up and thrown on the fire without making any dust. A good kitchen range has the oven on one side of the fire, and the boiler of hot water on the other, or behind it, so as to be entirely out of sight. This should be fed with water from a cistern with a ball-cock, in order that it may be ready for use at a minute's warning. Formerly a cook had the separate fires of her oven and boiler to attend to, but now one fire is sufficient to keep the whole range in use. These grates are calculated for moderate-sized families, and are to be had of different sizes, according to the cooking any family may require. For very large families the steam kitchen is extremely convenient. It saves fuel, keeps the kitchen cool, and even banishes from it the appearance and smell of cooking, while the cook is enabled to prepare for table a greater number of dishes than could be done with a single fire without some contrivance of this kind. We have also seen a cooking apparatus which combines even more advantages than the steam kitchen. In the centre of this apparatus is the stove, upon which is a cast-iron plate or table. This plate supports another, in which there are seven or eight ciixular holes, with oast-iron covers to them. These holes are of different sizes, and into which there are saucepans to fit. When the contents of any saucepan are required to boil the cover is taken from the hole, and the saucepan is put into it, and thus receives the whole heat of the cast-iron plate below. If, on the contrary, only stewing or gentle simmering be needful, the cover is not removed from the hole, but the saucepan is placed upon it, and thereby receives only a moderate degree of heat,