roT POT [ 38-6 ] boiled and tlie potatoes steamed all in one pan, and with one trouble. But, for those who will not use a steamer, the best way to dress potatoes is to pour the water off just when they are done enough, or a few minutes before; sprinkle a little salt upon them, shake them gently over, and set them by the fire for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour. POTATOES : To Roast. Scrub and wash exceedingly clean some large potatoes nearly equal in size ; wipe them very dry, and roast them in a Dutch oven before the fire, placing them at a distance from it, and keeping them often turned ; or arrange them in a coarse dish, and bake them in a moderate oven. Dish them neatly in a napkin, and send them very hot to table : serve cold butter with them. One and three quarters to upwards of two hours are required for roasting. POTATOES A LA CREME. Put into a saucepan about 2 ozs. of butter, a dessert- spoonful of flour, parsley, scallious (both sliced small), salt, and pepper ; stir them up together, add a glass of cream, and set it on the fire, stirring till it boils ; then, having cut some boiled potatoes into slices, put them into the above, give them a boil, and serve hot. POTATOES, FRANGIPANE OF. Take some steamed potatoes (let them be thoroughly done); pare and pound them carefully; then put them into a basin ; add some whole eggs, a little butter, the rind of a lemon grated, some bitter almonds crushed, a small quantity of sugar, and a grain of salt. Mix these together well, and use this frangipane according to the usual directions. POTATOES, GATEAU OF. Pare some steamed or well-boiled, dry potatoes, and pound them in a mortar, adding butter and milk in which sugar has been dissolved. When the pota- toes are well beaten and mixed set the paste on the fire, boil it, and pour it into a basin to cool; then put to it the yolks of eight eggs, a suffi- cient quantity of sugar, the whites of four eggs beaten to a snow, and two spoonsful of orange- flower water. Take a saucepan, butter the inside well, sprinkle the sides over with bread crumbs, and pour in the above preparation; set it on the stove with hot ashes on the lid, and let it remain till done and nicely coloured, when it may be turned out on a dish. POTATOES AU MAITRE D'HOTEL. Having boiled your potatoes as usual, pare and cut them in slices, which put into a stewpan, with a good piece of butter, shred parsley, scallions, salt, and pepper; set them on the fire a short time, and then fry them lightly in a little butter and sweet herbs: if you find the butter oils, pour in a spoonful of water. Serve with a little lemon juice. POTATOES, MASHED. Boil tbem till perfectly tender quite through, pour off the water, and steam them very dry ; peel them quickly, take out every speck, and while they are still hot press the potatoes through an earthen cullender, or bruise them to a smooth mash with a strong wooden fork or spoon, but never pound them in a mortar, as that will reduce them to a close, heavy paste. Let them be entirely free from lumps, for nothing can be more indicative of carelessness or want of skill on the part of the cook than mashed potatoes sent to the table full of lumps. Melt in a clean saucepan a slice of good butter with a spoonful of milk, or, better still, of cream; put in the potatoes after having sprinkled some fine salt upon them, and stir the whole over a gentle fire with a wooden spoon until the ingredients are well mixed, and the whole is very hot. It may be served directly, or heaped high in a dish, left rough on the surface, and browned before the fire; or it may be pressed into a well-buttered mould of handsome form, which has been strewed with the finest bread crumbs, and shaken free of the loose ones, then turned out, and browned in an oven. More or less liquid will be required for potatoes of different kinds. For 2 lbs. of potatoes add one tea-spoonful of salt, 1 oz. of butter, and a quarter of a pint of milk or sweet cream. POTATOES, NEW: To Boil. These are never good unless freshly dug. Take them of equal size, and rub off the skins with a brush or a very coarse cloth; wash them clean, and put them, without salt, into boiling, or at least quite hot water; boil softly, and when they are tender enough to serve pour off the water entirely ; strew some fine salt over the potatoes, give them a shake, and let them stand by the fire in a saucepan for a minute ; then dish and serve them immediately. Some cooks throw in a slice of fresh butter with the salt, and toss them gently in it till it is dissolved. This is a good mode ; but the more usual one is to send melted butter to the table with them, or pour white sauce over them when they are very young, and served early in the season, as a side or corner dish. Very small new potatoes are boiled in ten to fifteen minutes ; moderate sized in from fifteen to twenty minutes. POTATOES A LA PROVENQALE. Put into a saucepan' about 2 ozs. of butter cut into several pieces, three dessert-spoonsful of oil, half the peel of a lemon, parsley and scallions (both shred small), grated nutmeg, a tea- spoonful of flour, salt, and whole pepper. Throw some potatoes into boiling water, and in a few minutes take them out; pare and cut them into four or six pieces according to their size, and.