PUM r 3d3 ] PUT her body bound too tightly, nor to rise too soon liom bed after delivery. Catching cold is also to be avoided, and a proper attention should be paid to cleanliness. PUFFETS. See American Puffets. PUITS D'AMOUR. Having given the proper number of turns to some pufF paste, roll it out about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and cut a piece with a paste cutter, the edges of which are scalloped; then cut more pieces with smaller cutters, and place them on the first; press them down a little on each other, dorez, and bake them. When about three parts done sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze them ; draw them from the oven, and take out the middle part, which fill up with any kind of sweetmeat or preserve you may think proper. PULLNA WATER. Bicarbonate of soda, 50 grains; sulphate of magnesia, 4 drachms ; sulphate of soda, 3 drachms; muriate of soda, 1 scruple. Dissolve in a pint of water. Add, lastly, 2 scruples of bisulphate of soda, and close the bottle immediately. Salts fob making Pullna Water. Dry bicarbonate of soda, 1 oz.; exsiccated sulphate of soda, 2 ozs.; e.^siccated sulphate of magnesia, ] I oz.; dry muriate of soda, 2 drachms ; dry tartaric acid, | oz.; or rather, dry bisulphate of soda, 1 oz. PULSE is a term denoting the alternate dilatation and contraction of the heart and arteries, in consequence of which the blood, being ejected from the left ventricle of that organ, is impelled into the arteries, so that it may circulate throughout the body. This inces- sant motion or throbbing of the vessels is dis- tinctly perceptible by the finger. The various circumstances by which a natural pulse is liable to be affected are classed under the following heads:—1. Such as arise from bodily organisation, namely, sex, temperament, and stature. 2. Such as proceed from the difference in the time of life. 3. Time of day. 4. State of the system respecting rest or activity, namely, sleep, exercise, and mental agitation. 5. State of the body with regard to tempera- ture. 6. Effects of food and abstinence. To these may be added the season of the year, the greater or less pressure of the atmosphere, and a variety of other circumstances too numerous to be detailed. Thus the pulse in general beats more quickly in men, especially those of a bilious habit, than in women. In lean persons, whose vessels are large, it is much stronger than in the corpulent or phlegmatic. " Farther, the pulse is more forcible in adults than in children ; but in the aged it is slow and Lard. When the atmosphere is close and pro- ductive of rain, as well as during sedentary occupations, the pulse is languid, and perspira- VOL. II. tion is diminished. In the month of May it is quick, and sometimes even violent; as the summer advances, the rapidity of circulation, though remaining nearly uniform, is considerably reduced in strength, so that in autumn it is slow, soft, and weak ; bat on the approach of winter the pulse becomes hard and strong. The most powerful agents, however, on th6 human pulse are the passions and affections of the mind. Thus, under the influence of terror, it is unequal, small, and contracted ; under that of joy it becomes frequent and large ; during anger it is hard, and beats quickly ; and lastly, in persons pursuing intense study it is unusually languid. According to our experience, the standard of a natural pulse in adults in a good state of health appears to be 72 in men, and 66 in women, and its extreme acceleration 125. Thus we observe from some authorities that, for a person whose natural pulse is 75, the beginning of fever is 96, hectic fever 108, and inflammatory fever 120. According to this proportion, in one whose natural pulse is 60, the first of these stages should be about 77; the second, 86; the third, 96. On the other hand, a natural pulse of 80 would require them to be about 102, 115, and 128. Independently of other symptoms, neither the frequency of the pulse nor its peculiar modification appears to be of so much conse- quence in diseases as is generally imagined. PUMPKIN. The Arabs mix rice and meat with the flesh of the pumpkin, and cook the mixture in its basin-like rind. In America the flesh of the warted gourd has for ages been boiled, and eaten with meat as a vegetable ; and, wherever these edible kinds are grown, their cooked flesh is considered cooling and diuretic, and when beaten fine, and applied warm, is one of the best of poultices. In Venice we have seen the pumpkin roasted in the streets on the ground with a few embers. Cottagers who have no stoves may do this very well. The pumpkin also makes very nice fritters, made as apple fritters usually are done. PUMPKIN : To Stew. Cut in slices, pare and take out the seeds, and blanch it; put it into a stewpan, with butter, minced parsley, pepper, scallions, and salt; toss and serve it. It is excellent baked, and dressed at the table with new milk, sugar, spices, and butter. PUMPKIN PIE. Take out the seeds, and pare the pumpkin, but do not scrape the inside, as the part nearest the seeds is the sweetest. Stew the pumpkin with a little salt, and press it through a cullender. For a large pie, to one 2 B