MIL MIL [ -209 ] This fact must have long since been remarked hj every person attentive to a dairy, though no experiment appears to have been made which could ascertain either the precise amount of the increased quantity of cream that might thus be obtained, or of the proportionate decrease in its quality. But the effect of mixing water with the milk in a dairy is thus ascertained, and the knowledge of this fact will enable attentive per- sons to follow that practice which they shall find best calculated to promote their interest. Milk which is put into a bucket or other pro- per vessel, and carried in it to a considerable distance, so as to be much agitated, and in part cooled, before it be put in the milk-pans to settle for cream, never throws up so much or so rich cream as if the same milk had been put into the milk-pans directly after it was milked. The loss of cream will, in this case, be nearly in proportion to the time that has elapsed, and the agitation which it has sustained, after it has been drawn from the cow, though we are not enabled to state from expoMment how much of that loss is to be ascribed to the time and agita- tion, taken separately. The fact, however, is established, and is of such importance that it cannot be made too extensively known. From these fundamental facts respecting the dairy many very important corollaries, serving to direct the practice, may be deduced. Our attention will be given to the following, which, from their peculiar importance, demand a special consideration. Firstly. It is evidently of much importance that the cows should be always milked as near to the dairy as possible, in order to prevent the necessity of carrying and cooling the milk before it is put into the dishes ; and, since cows are materially injured by driving from a distance, it will be of the greatest advantage in a dairy farm to have the principal grass fields as near to the dairy or homestead as possible. In this point of view, the practice of constantly feeding cows in the house must appear obviously superior to that of turning them out to pasture in the field. Secondly. The practice of putting the milk of all the cows of a large dairy into one vessel as it is milked, there to remain until the whole milking is finished, before any part of it is put into the milk-pans, seems to be highly injudicious, on account of the loss sustained by agitation and cooling, but especially because it prevents the dairy owner from distinguishing the good from the bad cows' milk, so as to enable him to form an accurate estimation of the profit he may derive from each. Without this precaution, indeed, the whole of his dairy produce may, for several successive years, be debased by the milk of one bad cow, without being able to detect it. VOL. II. It would, therefore, be a much better practice to put the milk, as soon as possible after it is drawn, into distinct creaming pans, without mixing it with any other; and if these pans were all made of such a size as to be able to contain the whole of one cow's milk, each in a separate pan, the careful dairy-maid would thus be enabled to remark, without any trouble, the quantity of milk afforded by each cow every day, as well as the peculiar qualities of that cow's milk. And if the same cow's milk were always to be placed on the same part of the shelf, having her name written beneath the stand, there never could be the smallest diffi- culty in ascertaining which of the cows it would be the owner's interest to dispose of, and which of them he ought to keep and breed from. Thirdly. If it be intended to make butter of a very fine quality, it will be advisable not only to reject entirely the milk of all those cows which yields cream of a bad quality, but also, in every case, to keep the milk that is first drawn from the cow at each milking entirely separate from that which is last obtained, as the quality of the butter must otherwise be greatly debased, without materially augmenting its quantity. It is also obvious that the quality of the butter will be improved in proportion to the smalluess of the amount of the last-drawn milk that is retained; so that those who wish to be peculiarly nice in this respect will do well to retain, for their best butter, a very small proportion only of the last-drawn milk. It is a matter of some importance to determine in what way the in- ferior milk, which is thus set apart when fine butter is wanted, can be employed with the greatest profit. In the Highlands of Scotland the people have adopted a practice, merely from considerations of convenience and economy, without thinking of the improvement of the butter, which answers many good purposes. As the rearing of calves is there a principal object with the farmer, every cow is allowed to suckle her own calf with a portion of her milk, the remainder only being employed for the purposes of the dairy. To give the calf the proportion allotted to it regularly, it is separated from the cow, and put into a small inclosure, made for that express purpose on every farm, together with all the other calves belonging to that farm. At regular times all the cows are brought to the door of this inclosure, where the young one; fail not to meet them. Every calf is then separately let out, and runs directly to its mother, when it is allowed to suck till the dairy- maid judges that it has had enough; she then orders it to be driven away, having previously shackled the hind legs of the mother by a very simple contrivance, to oblige her to stand still, and the dairy-maid milks off what was left by P