[ 281 3 0 VE OEP dish with almonds, sponge cake sliced thin, or with sliced lady cake ; grate the yellow rind of lemon, and mix it among the cake, adding also the juice of a lemon, and sufficient white wine to moisten the cake, so that after standing awhile it can be easily mashed. For wine you may substitute brandy, or wine and brandy mixed. Beat six eggs till very light, and stir them gradually into a pint of milk, adding four table^ spoonsful of powdered white sugar, and half a nutmeg grated; mix the eggs, &c., by degrees with the dissolved cake, stirring it very hard. The dish should be full. Set it in the oven, and bake it brown. When cold have ready a meringue made of beaten white of egg, thickened with powdered loaf sugar, and flavoured with lemon juice or rose water. Spread this evenly over the top of the pudding, putting one layer of the meringue over another till it is very thick, and then set it for a few minutes in the oven to brown slightly on the top. Any very nice baked pudding will be improved by covering the surface with a merjngue. ORPIMENT is a combination of arsenic and sulphur, and is very poisonous. It is obtained of two colours, When red it is also called realgar; when yellow it is known as King's yellow. Both are used as pigments. ORRIS ROOT is the root-stock of Iri$ Florentina, or Florentine iris. It is acrid whilst fresh, but loses the acridity in drying. It is much used in perfumery, tooth and hair powders, pomatums, and essences. Used medi- cinally it is cathartic, and in large doses emetic; but it is not now used for such purposes. It is chew^d by thos,e who have offensive breath. ORTOLANS. These small and delicious birds form a luxurious treat in Italy, France, and every part of Europe. Abroad they are spitted in pairs, side by side, each wrapped in a vine leaf, with a bit of fat bacon on the breast, and basted with a little of the same. They are served with fried crumbs of bread, and the juice of a Seville orange, The flesh is light, and yet so luscious that few persons can eat more than two. In England the price places them out of the reach of any but the great and wealthy. ORTOLANS: To Roast. They should be picked and singed, but not drawn. Put them on skewers, with bacon round them, and tie them to the spit. When they are done strew them over with grated bread; or they may be spitted sideways, with a bay leaf between, and the dish should be garnished all round with fried bread crumbs. OSTRICH FEATHERS. See Feathers. OTTO. See Attar. , OVENS, BRICK. For the following direc- Fip.l, tions we are chiefly indebted to "The Magazine ot Domestic Economy:"— Fig. 1 shows the front view ol the erection, where a is supposed to be the level of the floor. The space between a and o is about two feet, and is built of nine courses of nine-inch brick- work, excepting at the part marked b, which refers to an ash-flue, not seen indeed, being faced with four-inch work. This flue is about six inches square in its course, but widens a little on the shelf o, and is closed with an iron door or a paving tile at h. Its office is to carry down the wood ashes when the oven is cleared. They fall through the flue to the larger space at h, where they are kept back by the door or tile, and thus are prevented from flying about the room, which they otherwise would do, covering every utensil with dust. In this little recess the wood ashes remain till cold, and then they are taken out, put into water, strained, and form that very useful article hje, or alkaline solution, which assists the laundress or housemaid in many domestic operations wherein pearlash or soda is em- ployed. Fig. 2' is a side view of the oven, four feet long, and from fifteen to eighteen inches deep from the floor to the crown of the arch. The floor is of six-inch paving tiles, over a nine-inch stratum s of flints, boulder stones, brickbats, or other dry and non- conducting mate- rials. The space under this stratum being surrounded with nine - inch brickwork, may be filled with rubbish, chalk, or earth; but this especial cau- tion must be used —that nothing wet, or that will hold moisture, be placed next to the oven floor; hence the necessity of the stratum of flints, &c. This receives heat and retains it, which, were the foundation of solid earth, would be so attracted as to render it extremely difficult to bring the floor to a due degree of temperature. The oven is arched with bricks placed endwise fir, and over this arch dry brick rubbish is laid. In fact, the oven is inclosed at the sides and top with that material, which proves a safeguard against fire The door of the oven is of iron,