[ 04 ] IMP ILI advanced in years. Their whole moral character is changed ; " the pious," saj's Dr. Burrows, " become impious, the liberal penurious, the sober drunken." In this description, which is taken from the writings of the most esteemed modern authors on insanity, we need hardly suggest to the reader the striking resemblance that it bears to crime. Owing to this our legal tribunals can hardly be considered as giving an assent to its actual existence. Besides the forms of insanity already described, there are others mentioned by systematic writers, as demonomania, which is a variety of melancholy, originating from mistaken ideas on religious subjects, and nympJiomania, or furor uterinus, a raving mania of females, con- nected with a disorder of the generative organs. A short enumeration of the causes of insanity may be introduced in this place. They are usually divided into physical and moral, or bodily and mental; but a separation of this nature is not conducive to just views of the disease. Insanity is essentially a bodily disease, and the moral causes operate in producing it as they do in producing other complaints. We may enumerate the following as remote causes :—Repeated intoxication, abstinence, in- juries to the head, fever, suppressed discharges and secretions, excessive evacuations, mercury largely and injudiciously administered, paralytic affections, influence of particular seasons, heredi- tary predisposition, sedentary habits, excess in pleasure, factitious passions, mistaken views of religion, parturition, errors in education, intense application to a particular study or object of in- vestigation, misfortunes, the excitement of poli- tical changes, and particularly a state of war ; and it may be added, as to sex, that upon a comprehensive comparison, there is found to be i\o other disproportion among the insane than among the sane population in general. It should be remembered that the insanity of females is always aggravated at the period of menstruation, particularly when it is in a morbid state. ILIAC PASSION. Severe sensation of pain is perceptible in the intestines. Their worm-like motion is inverted, and the feces are discharged upward. Constant inclination to vomit attends. A fever arises from the local irritation. The causes are such as produce spasmodic constriction of some part of the intestines ; or they are such obstructions of them as hardened feces, or the running of one intestine into another. The feces, as discharged upward, will pre- vent this affection from being confounded with any other. This disease seldom admits of a cure. Cessa- tion of pain, and the coming on of hiccups and cold clammy sweats, are forerunners of a fatal termination. It is always advisable to bleed, and that even largely and repeatedly, both to prevent inflam- mation coming on, and to take off the spasm of the bowels. This removal of spasm is to be further promoted by the application to the belly of flannels wrung out of hot water, or by putting the patient into a warm bath. It would be a most desirable object to give purgative medicines by the mouth, in order to restore the downward action of the intestines, and to dis- charge any irritating matter; but unhappily the stomach is apt to reject them all, and to frustrate our purpose. In this state we must have recourse to the seemingly dangerous and unsuitable practice of giving opium, which frequently relieves the pain, stops the vomiting, and permits us to use the proper purgative medicines. For this purpose the tincture is not so good as solid opium, one or two grains of which will remain on the stomach, when thirty cr forty drops of the medicine in a liquid form would be rejected. Patients should endeavour to refrain from drinking anything till the opium has allayed the irritation. A large blister may be applied to the abdomen • it will probably be an effectual remedy, with the only disadvantage that we have to wait some time for its good effects. If the opium and blister diminish the irritability of the stomach we are to try the exhibition of calomel, giving four grains every hour; and it is better retained when given dry, or with a little brown sugar, than when mixed with jelly or any similar substance. A dose of senna, or castor oil, or sulphate of magnesia, may be given an hour after the third or fourth dose of the cilomel. From I oz. to 1 oz. of turpentine often proves a most effectual purgative. Clysters should never be omitted. At first the milder kinds should be tried, as a large quantity of warm gruel, with a little oil, or salt, or an infusion of senna, with a portion of sulphate of magnesia. These should be tlnwvn in with considerable force. If these remedies fail, a very effectual, but a very hazardous one must be tried—the injection of an infusion of tobacco, in the pro- portion of a drachm of the leaves to an English pint of water. This is very generally followed by the most remarkable sickness, relaxation of the system, and depression of strength, and must never be given but under the direction and personal superintendence of an experienced practitioner. IMPEDIMENT OF SPEECH. In cases where a small degree of hesitation occasionally breaks the fluent tenor of discourse, much may