YEA YEA- [ 575 ] YEAST (2). Thicken two quarts of water ■with fine flour, boil it half an hour, and sweeten it with i lb. of sugar. When cold add to it four spoonsful of fresh yeast in a jug, shake well together, and let it stand one day to ferment before the fire without covering it. A thin liquor will rise on the top, which must be poui'ed off: shake the remainder and cork it up for use. Take four spoonsful of the old yeast to ferment the next quantity you want to make. To remove the bitterness of the yeast, put some bran into a sieve, and pour the yeast through it, mixed with a little warm water. YEAST, BAKERS'. Boil 2 ozs. of hops in four quarts of water one hour, adding more water as it decreases, carefully stirring it all the time, and taking care that it does not boil over; strain the liquor, and mix with it 2 lbs. of malt; cover it, and let it stand for eight hours, or until it is milkwarm, and then stir in half a pint of good yeast. When mixed well together let it work for ten hours, and then strain it through a hair sieve. YEAST, BRAN. Boil for ten minutes in two quarts of water one pint of bran and a small handful of hops; strain through a sieve, and when milkwarm add three or four table- spoonsful of beer yeast, and tvvo of brown sugar or treacle ; put it into a wooden stoup or jug, cover it, and place it before the fire to ferment. It may be bottled, tightly corked, and kept in a cool place. YEAST DUMPLINGS. Make a very light dough with yeast the same as for bread, but ■with milk used instead of water; add salt, and set it by the fire, covered up in a pan, for half an hour to rise. In the meantime set on the fire a large saucepan of hot water, and as soon fis it boils roll up the dough into small balls, and put them into the boiling water ; keep them continually boiling for ten minutes, then take them out, and serve them immediately, with wine sauce over them. To ascertain whether they are sufficiently boiled stick a fork into one, and if it comes out clean it is done enough. Some think the best manner of eating them is by dividing them from the top with two forks, as they become heavy by their own steam, and cat them immediately with meat, or sugar and butter, or salt. YEAST, HARD. Boil 3 ozs. of hops in six quarts of water till only two quarts remain, and stir in, while boiling hot, wheat or rye meal till it is as thick as batter. When it is about milk- warm add half a pint of good yeast, and let it stand till it is very light, generally about three hours; then work in sifted Indian meal till it is a stiff dough, roll it out on a board, and cut it into oblong cakes about three inches by two and a half thick; lay these cakes on a smooth board, over which a little Hour has been dusted, prick them with a fork, and place them in a clean dry I'oom, where the sun and air may be freely admitted. Turn them every day. They will dry in a fortnight unless the weather be damp. When the cakes are perfectly dry put them in a coarse cotton bag, and hang it up in a cool dry place. If rightly prepared these cakes will keep all the year. Tvvo cakes will make yeast enough for a peck of flour. Break them into a pint of lukewarm water, and stir in a table-spoonful of flour, the. evening before you bake. Set the mixture where it can be kept moderately warm. In the morning it will be fit for use. YEAST, MILK. Take a pint of new milk, a tea-spoonful of fine salt, and a large spoonful of flour; stir these well together; set the mix- ture by the fire, and keep it just lukewarm : it will be fit for use in an hour. Twice the quantity of common yeast is necessary. It will not keep long. Bread made of yeast dries very soon ; but in summer it is sometimes convenient to make this kind when yeast is needed sud- denly. See Milk Yeast. YEAST, POTATO. Boil some good mealy potatoes; peel and weigh them while hot, bruise them finel}'', mix them quickly with boiling water, allowing one quart to each pound, and rub them through a hair sieve ; then add honey or brown sugar in the proportion of 1 oz. to each quart of water; boil to the consistence of batter, and when nearly cold add a large table- spoonful of good yeast to every quart of water; cover it with a cloth to rise, and the following day it will be ready for use. Keep a bottle of it, which may be used instead of beer yeast for, the next making, first pouring off the thin liquid that is on the top. It must be made with fresh beer yeast every two or three months. Double, the quantity of this as beer yeast is required to make bread light. See Potato Yeast. YEAST POWDERS. Get at a druggist's 1 lb. of supercarbonate of soda and f lb. of tartaric acid: both these articles must be of the very best qualit3^ Pi'epare an equal number of square blue and white papers, nicely cut. To be very accurate weigh the articles alternately. In every blue paper put 100 grains of super- carbonate of soda, and in each white paper 90 grains of tartaric acid, and then fold tiiem up so as to secure their contents. If you have no scales and weights you may guess tolerably well at the proportion of the articles by measuring a tea-spoonful of soda for each blue paper, and three quarters of a spoonful of the acid for each white paper. Put them into boxes, and keep them in a dry place. The contents of one blue paper and one white paper are considered as one yeast powder.