QUA PUT [ 372 ] of roses, 6 ozs.; tincture of myrrh, 1 oz. ; di- luted sulphuric acid, 1 drachm. To be used frequently. Or, soft extract of bark, 1 drachm; red port wine, 7 ozs. Inhaling the steam of hot water impregnated •with myn-h, camphor, and vinegar may also be had recourse to. Should a looseness come on which is not critical, opium and astringents are directed, of which the following are some of the best forms of giving them combined :—Take chalk mixture, 8 ozs.; ipecacuanha wine, 1^ drachm ; tincture of ginger, ^ oz. Make a mix- ture. Or, chalk mixture, 8 ozs.; aromatic con- fection, drachm ; tincture of opium, .30 drops. Or, chalk mixture, 6 ozs.; compound tincture of cardamoms, 1 oz. ; syrup of ginger, \ oz.; tincture of opium, | drachm. Of any of these mixtures three table-spoonsful may be given every two, three, or four hours, or after every purging stool, and the opium, when used, increased if necessary. Mulled port wine, or pure port, or diluted brandy should be frequently administered where t!ie symptoms run high ; and, as the disease advances, the patient's strength must be sup- ported by diluted wine, with sago, arrowroot, tapioca, &c.: for ordinary drink, wine whey, or negus acidulated with oranges and lemons. The patient's chamber should be kept cool, the floor often sprinkled with vinegar, air freely admitted, and fumigated by casting powdered nitre over a chafing dish containing live coals. All sources of putrid effluvia should be removed, the stools regularly taken away, and the patient's linen frequently changed. A change of air is often necessary after the attack. PUTTY is a compound of boiled linseed oil and whiting; but as it may be bought in London at half a guinea per hundred weight, it is scarcely worth while to make it. One hundred weight is enough for puttyiog about three hundred square feet of glass. Old putty may be softened by applying to it Jags dipped in a saturated solution of caustic potash, leaving them on for twelve hours, or by rubbing h hot iron along the putty. If the putty is made at home the whiting should be well dried, and then pounded and sifted till it becomes a fine powder, and is quite free from grit. The whiting, a little warm, should be gradually added to the oil, and well mixed by means of a piece of stick or a spatula. When it is sufficiently stiff it should be well w'orked with the hand on a table, and afterwards beaten on a stone with a wooden mallet till it becomes a soft, smooth, tenacious mass. A ball of putty, when left some days, becomes somewhat hard, but may be easily softened by beating. PYRMONT WATER. This celebrated chaly- beate spring at PyTmont,in the province of West- phalia, possesses the same medical properties as the Pouhon at Spa; but it is tiicjght to be considerably rougher, and more actise in its operation. It is indicated in the same diseases, and it requires similar precautions in its use. Bergmann's analysis presents the following constituent parts in a wine pint :— Graini. Oxide of iron . , , '56 Carbonate of lime , . . 4-46 Carbonate of magnesia . . 10 03 Sulphate of lime . . . 8-68 Sulphate of magnesia . . 6-57 Muriate of soda - • • 1*56 30-86 The quantity of gas which this water contains exceeds that of any mineral spring with which we are acquainted. Bergmann estimates it at 90 per cent, of the bulk of the water, or about 26 cubic inches in the pint. It is almost entirely carbonic acid gas. PYROLIGNEOUS ACID is merely impure vinegar obtained by the dry distillation of wood in close vessels. Until purified it contains creosote, along with other impurities. Hence it has been found to be very efficacious in pre- serving animal substances from decay, and to impart to them the peculiar flavour of bacon, herrings, &c., which have been dried by means of burning wood. Q. QUAILS : To Roast. Truss the birds, and stuff them with beef suet and sweet herbs, both shred veiy small, and seasoned with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; fasten them to a spit, and put them to the fire; baste with salt and water when they begin to get warm ; then dredge them with flour, and baste them with butter. Put an anchovy, two or three shallots, and the juice of a Seville orange into a little rich gravy; set it on the fire, shake it about, and when the an- chovy is dissolved serve it with the quails. Garnish the dish with fried bread crumbs. These birds are sometimes roasted, wrapped first in a slice of bacon, and then in a vine leaf. They should be kept at a moderate distance from the fire. QUAILS, HUNTERS'. Put the quails in a saucepan, with a little butter, a bay leaf, sweet herbs, salt, and pepper; set them on a fierce fire, and keep shaking them until they are tender, when add a dessert-spoonful of flour, half a glass of white wine, and a little stock. When this is thick, and quite hot without boil- > ing, take it from the fire, and serve. QUAILS, SALMIS OF. Quails alone make