[ 303 ] PAS PAS JMoral arguments of consolation, if properly adapted to the capacity and mental disposition of the sufferer, have in these cases generally a powerful influence. Those whose minds are af- fected by sorrowought to avoid as muchas possible the company of pei-sons who are fond of relating their calamities, and recounting their misfor- tunes. On the contrary, whatever has a tend- ency to cheer the mind, and to divert it from disagreeable objects, ought to be instantly re- sorted to. Of this nature are company, busi- ness, cheerful music, and the social affections. The body should be frequently rubbed with dry cloths, pei-fumed with amber, vinegai", sugar, and the like ; the lukewarm bath may be em- ployed with great advantage, and, if circum- stances permit, the patient should remove to a •warmer and drier climate. If temperately used a weak and mild wine is ot excellent service; but an immoderate indulgence in this palatable drink may disorder the stomach by the quan- tity of acid it produces. Weeping generally accompanies sorrow if it be not too intense : tears are the anodynes of grief, and ought not to be restrained by adults. We feel, in weeping, an anxiety and contraction of tVie breast which impede respiration, probably because a superfluous quantity of air is then contained in the lungs, which is forcibly expelled by sobbing. By this obstruction in breatliing, the blood, which ought to be reconducted from the head, accumulates in the lungs, and conse- quently in the veins: hence arise redness, heat of the face, and a flow of tears, which are regulated in quantity by the degree of sadness that produced tliem. Their principal good effects are, that they prevent the danger to be appre- hended from grief, by diminishing the spasmodic motions in the breast and head, and by restoring regularity in respiration, as well as in the circu- lation of the blood: hence persons find them- selves much relieved after a plentiful flow of tears, which, however, is extremely prejudicial to the eyes. Grief arising from an ungratified desire of returning home and seeing our relations is productive of a disease very common among the Swiss, and which sometimes, after a short state of melancholy, trembling of the limbs, and other symptoms apparently not very dangerous, hurries the unhappy sufferer to the grave, but more frequently throws him into a consumption, and generates the most singular whims and fancies. Persuasions, punishments, medicines, are here of no service ; but a suddenly revived hope, or a gratification of the patient's wishes, has a powerful effect, provided that an in- curable consumption or insanity has not already taken place. Envy arises from self-love or self-interest, particularly in such individuals as have neglected to cultivate their own talents, or to whom nature has denied certain qualifications of body or mind which they cannot avoid seeing in others. It is principally excited when they are witnesses of the prosperity of persons who possess such superior endowments. People of a narrow mind, and those of a confined education, are most subject to this mean passion. Envy deprives those addicted to it of an appetite for food, of sleep, of every enjoyment, and disposes them to febrile complaints ; but, in general, it is hurtful to those only who brood over and indulge in this corrosive passion. There are, however, vast numbers who show their envy at almost every event productive of good fortune to others, and who yet often attain a very great age. Joy at the misfortunes or the discovered foibles of others, self-love, calumny against their neigh- bours, satire, and ridicule, are the never-failing resources of their malignant dispositions. Medi- cines cannot cure a disease so odious ; education and improvement of morals are its only anti- dotes. Envious persons commonly give too much importance to trifles : hence they ought to be instructed to employ themselves in more useful pursuits; to judge of things according to their true value, and to accustom themselves to a philosophic calmness ; they ought to learn how to overcome, or at least to moderate, their selfish- ness ; to counterbalance their expectations with their deserts, and to equal or surpass others in their merits rather than in their pretensions. Fear, or Anxiety, is the apprehension of evil. Fear weakens the powers of the mind, relaxes and congeals every part of the human body, retards the pulse, hinders respiration, obstructs the menses, and sometimes also perspi- ration. Hence it produces tremor and dread ; frequently, too, it excites perspiration, since it disorganises everything linked to the body by means of the nerves. It is apt to occasion diarrhoea, and, in some individuals, an involun- tary discharge of semen. Some persons of a relaxed habit are, by great fear, thrown into a perspiration resembling the agonies of death, and others cannot retain their urine. Timorous persons are more readily infected by epidemical disorders than those possessed of courage, be- cause fear not only weakens the energy of the heart, but at the same time pi'omotes the absorp- tion by the skin, so as to render the timid more liable to contagion. In short, fear increases the malignity of diseases, changes their natural course, aggravates them by a thousand incidental circumstances, so that they resist all remedies, and suppresses the efforts of nature, so as to terminate in speedy dissolution. The usual consequences of violent and superstitious fear, produced by a disordered imagination, are erup-