MIN [ 215 ] MIN taste. If you have no raisins, dried cherries, or small grapes that have beea preserved iu sugar or molasses, are very good; or stewed dried apples instead of green; and when you have no cyder stew the apples in plenty of water, so as to have them very soft. A little good vinegar, sweetened and mixed with water, also does instead of cyder, but is not so good. This will make about forty pies, and if you have a convenient way of keeping them you may bake all at once, as they will keep for two months very readily when the weather is cold. If you do not bake all at once put what is left in a jar, cover the top with melted suet, and over this put a piece of white paper, with a tea- cupful of spirits poured on the top; tie it up, and keep it where it will not freeze. Where persons have a large family and workmen on a farm these pies are very useful. MINCE pies; lemon. Squeeze a large lemon, boil the outside till it can be beaten to a pulp, adding thereto three large apples cut small, 4 ozs. of suet, ^ lb. of. currants, and 4 ozs. of sugar; put in the juice of the lemon and candied fruit, make a short crust, and fill your patty pans. MINCE PIES WITHOUT MEAT. Take I lb. of currants, I lb. of apples chopped fine, 1 lb, of moist sugar, I lb. of suet well chopped, i lb. of raisins stoned and chopped small, the juice of four Seville oranges, the juice of two lemons, the rind of one shred fine, nutmeg and max;e according to taste, and a glass of brandy. Mix all well together, put it in a pan, and keep it closely tied up. MINCE PIES, PATTIES RESEMBLING. Chop the kidney and fat of cold veal, add thereto an apple, orange, lemon-peel candied, fresh currants, a little wine, two or three cloves, some brandy, and sugar. Bake them in small patty pans. MINCE PUDDING. Take 1^ lb. of mince- meat, and sift f lb. of flour; beat six eggs till very light, and stir into them alternately the mince- meat and the flour, a little at a time of each: stir the whole very hard. Have ready a pudding cloth dipped into a pot of boiling water, then wrung and dredged with flour; spread out the cloth in a large pan, and pour into it the pudding; tie it tightly, leaving room for the pudding to swell, and stop up the tying place with a small bit of dough made of flour and water; put it immediately into a large pot of boiling water, having an old plate at the bottom to keep the pudding from scorching, and boil it steadily five or six hours, turning it in the pot every hour. As the water boils away replenish it from a kettle of water that is kept boiling hard. Do not turn out the pudding till immediately before it is sent to table. Eat it with wine sauce. This pudding is excellent, and the mincemeat is the same as that described in the preceding receipts. MINCED COLLOPS. This is a favourite Scotch dish, and few families are without it; it keeps well, and is always ready to form an extra dish. Take beef, chop and mince it very small with a chopping knife, and add some salt and pepper; put this in its raw state into small jars, and pour on the top some clarified butter. When intended for use put the clarified butter into a frying-pan, slice some onions into the pan, and fry them; add a little water, and then put in the minced collops. Stew them well, and in a few minutes they will be fit to serve up. See Collops. MINCEMEAT. This is of a very superior description. Boil two perfectly fresh ox tongues, and when cold skin and mince them, including the fat about the roots; mince also 1 lb. of beef suet, and mix it with the chopped tongues ; add four nutmegs powdered, 2 ozs. of powdered cinnamon, and 1 oz. of pow- dered mace, with a table-spoonful of powdered cloves. Pick clean, wash, and dry 3 lbs. of Zante currants; stone and chop 3 lbs. of the best raisins. Mix the fruit with the other ingredients, adding I lb. of citron sliced, including the grated yellow rind, and the juice of three large lemons or oranges. Sweeten the mixture with '2 lbs. of sugar, and moisten it with a quart of excellent brandy, and a quart of sherry or Madeira wine. Having thoroughly mixed the whole, pack it down hard into small stone jars, covering them closely, and pasting strong white paper over the lids. Do not add the apples till you take out the mince- meat for use, as it keeps better without them. Then take a sufficient number of pippins, or other acid cooking apples; pare, core, and chop them, and mix them with the mincemeat, allowing three large apples to a pint of mince- meat. Their freshness will improve the flavour. Sometimes the same weight of tripe is used instead of the meat, and sometimes the yolk of eggs boiled hard. It is best to make mince- meat two or three times during the winter, as it will not continue very good longer than five or six weeks. Whenever you take any out of the jar put some additional brandy to the re- mainder. MINCEMEAT, TEMPERANCE. For the benefit of those who are scrupulously fastidious about using anything which contains ardent spirits the following will be found to be free from such objection: — Take 3 lbs. of the lean of a round of fresh beef that has been boiled the day before. It must be thoroughly boiled and very tender. Mince it as finely as possible with a chopping kuife, and add to it