OME [ 267 ] OLI not worth the acquisition. Few persons relish Wives, for their crude juice and heavj' oil render them difficult of digestion, while they contain little or no nourishment. The best mode of using the olives imported is to chew the fruit, and then reject the pulp: by this means the relish is obtained, without loading the stomach with the woody, indigestible fibre. The Italian olive is to be preferred to the French, being superior in quality and easier of digestion. The leaves and bark have an acrid and bitter taste, and have been employed as substitutes for Peruvian bark, but with little success. In some countries a kind of gum resin exudes from the bark, which, on analysis, was found to contain a peculifir principle analogous to gum, which has received the name of olivile. OLIVE OIL. As an article of food olive oil is preferable to animal fat; but it ought always to be mild, fi-esh, and of a sweet taste. It. should not, however, be eaten by persons of weak stomachs, for even in its mildest state it produces rancidity and acrimony, which are extremely injurious to digestion. Olive oil is chiefly used in salads, and should always be consumed together with a large portion of bread, or with the addition of sugar, on account of its richness, as otherwise it requires a powerful and active bile to assimilate it to alimentary matter. Medicinally considered, olive oil, it is said, has been found an excellent preventive of the plague, when rubbed over the whole body imme- diately after the contagion is supposed to have taken place. It is also beneficially employed internally for recent colds, coughs, hoarseness, &c., whether mixed with water into an emulsion by means of alkalies, or with conserves or syrups into a linctus. Lastly, considerable quantities are used in the preparation of plasters, oint- ments, &c., for external applications. OLIVE ROYALS. Boil 1 lb. of potatoes, and when nearly cold rub them perfectly smooth with 4 ozs. of flour and 1 oz. of butter, and knead them together till they become a paste ; roll it out about a quarter of an inch thick, cut it into rounds, and lay upon one side any sort of cold roasted meat cut into thin small pieces, and seasoned with pepper and salt; put a very small piece of butter over it, wet the edges, and close the paste in the form of a half-circle. Fry them in boiling fresh dripping of a light brown colour, lay them before the fire on the back of a sieve to drain, and serve them with or without gravy in the dish. For a change mince the meat, and season it as before directed. The potatoes should be very mealy. OLIVER RILEY. Take four gi-een orange- peels, I lb. of raisins, one spoonful of cloves, two nutmegs, one table-spoonful of anise, two table-spoonsful of bitter almonds, one quart of rum, and sweeten to taste. OLIVES, RAGOtiT OF. Take some very green olives, and cut out the stones so that the fruit may close its original form ; put them ono by one into water, blanch, and then put them into a good cullis well seasoned. OMELET (1). Five or six eggs will make a good-sized omelet. Break them into a basin, beat them well with a fork, and add a salt-spoon- ful of salt. Have ready chopped 2 drachms of onion or 3 drachms of parsley, and a good clove of shallot minced finely; beat these well up with the eggs; then take 4 ozs. of fresh butter, break half of it into large pieces, and put them into the omelet, and the other half into a very clean fiying-pan. When it is melted pour in the omelet, and stir it with a spoon till it begins to set; then turn it up all round the edges, and when it is of a nice brown it is done. The safest way to take it out is to put a plate on the omelet, and turn the pan upside down. Serve it on a hot dish, but it should never be done till just wanted. Grated cheese, shrimps, or oysters may be added: boil them four minutes. Of oysters take away the beard and gristly part. They may either be put in whole or cut in pieces. OMELET (2). Beat well and strain six eggs, add them to 3 ozs. of butter made hot, and mix in some grated ham, pepper, salt, and nutmeg, some chopped chives, and parsley. Fry the omelet of a light brown colour. OMELET (3). Take as many eggs as you think proper (according to the size of your omelet), and break them into a basin, with some salt and chopped parsley ; then beat them well, and season them according to taste. Have ready some onion chopped small, put some butter into a frying-pan, and when it is hot (but not to burn) put in your chopped onion, giving it two or three turns ; then add your eggs to it, and fry the whole of a nice brown. You must only fry one side. When done turn it into a dish, the fried side uppermost, and sei've. OMELET WITH ASPARAGUS. Boil half a hundred of asparagus the usual way, cut the green ends small as far as they are tender, and mix them with ten well-beaten eggs. Make some clarified butter hot in the frying-pan, and put in the omelet; spiinkle it over with a little pepper and salt, and fry it a nice brown. It should be an inch thick, and should be served up immediately. Vinegar and butter for sauce. OMELET, CREAM. Boil a pint of cream, put into it the crumb of a French roll, parsley, shallots (both shred small), a little pepper and salt, and stir it over the fire till