SAU SAU [ 417 } it be too thick acid more cream or milk. When gufficiently done strain it through a bolter. SAUCE, STE. MENEHOULD. Melt some butter nicely with a little cream or milk and flour, and cook it with mushroom stalks, parsley, young onions, and shallots; strain and add, minced nicely. SAUCE, SAVOY. Blanch some savoys, cut them in quarters, tie them up, and stew them •with any kind of meat till they are half done , then put them into a stewpan with some gravy, and simmer the whole till perfectly tender. SAUCE, SICILIAN. Put into a stewpan nearly a pint of good gravy, a quarter of a pint of essence of ham, half a lemon peeled and sliced thin, a few coriander seeds, and four cloves (the two latter bruised); set it on the fire, give it one boil, and add three cloves of garlic, a head of celery (sliced), two bay leaves, and a little basil; let it stand till reduced to half, pour in a glass of white wine, and strain it. If not sufi&ciently thick add a bit of butter rolled in flour. SAUCE, SPANISH. Take the meat from a cold roasted partridge, and put it into a mortar, with partridge livers and truffles; pound them into a rather liquid paste, moistening with some good gravy, put in two glasses of red wine, two or three slices of onion, a clove or two of garlic, and two glasses of the paste; make it quite hot, then strain it into another stewpan, and add to it the partridge and a little essence of ham. SAUCE, A SUPER-EXCELLENT. Take a pint of port wine and the same quantity of mushroom catsup ; half a pint of walnut liquor, or that of any other pickle; 4 ozs. of anchovies powdered; of fresh lemon-peel pared thin, 1 oz ; of peeled dried shallots and horseradish the same quantity; of allspice and black pepper, each pulverised, \oz., of Cayenne, 1 drachm; or, instead of this, curry powder, 3 drachms; and of celery seed bruised, 1 drachm, all avoirdupois weight. Keep these well stopped and shaken for a fortnight, and then strain off for use. You may add thereto a quarter of a pint of soy or thick browning. SAUCE, SWEET. Put some cinnamon into a saucepan, with as much water as will cover it; set it on the fire, and when it has boiled up once or twice add two spoonsful of powder sugar, a quarter of a pint of white wine, and two bay leases. Give the whole one boil, and then strain it for table. SAUCE TOURNEE. Put three or four pieces of lean ham into a stewpan, with a little butter and some champignons; set it on a moderate fire, stirring till the butter begins to look clear; then put the champignons into another stewpan, and add a sufficient quantity VOL. II. of flour to the butter to make it the consistence of batter; mix it well in, and when smooth put to it three table-spoonsful of strained consomme; stir it in, then add more at different times until you have as much as j'ou require; set it on the fire, and let it boil slowly, stirring constantly. When reduced to the proper thickness, which is that of good melted butter, strain it through the tammy to use when occasion requires. SAUCE, UNIVERSAL. Take half a dozen split shallots, a clove of garlic, two bay leaves, basil, thyme, truffles, tarragon leaves, ^ oz. of bruised mustard seed, some Seville orange-peel, \ oz. of cloves, the same of mace, double the quantity of long pepper, and 2 ozs. of salt; put all these ingredients to infuse in the juice of a lemon, half a glass of verjuice, four or five spoonsful of vinegar, and a pint of white wine ; put them into ajar, cover it as closely as possible,' and set it on hot ashes for twenty-four hours. At the end of that time let it stand to settle, and when clear pour it off carefully: strain and bottle it. This infusion will keep a long time if closely corked, and may be used with all kinds of meat and fish. It may also be added, to other sauces. SAUCE, WHITE. Beat up i lb. of butter and a tea-spoonful of flour: season with salt and pepper. When well worked up add a dessert-spoonful of vinegar and a little water, set it on the fire, and stir till thick. Be careful not to let it boil. SAUCE, WHITE FISH. Simmer together an anchovy, a little horseradish scraped, some mace, an onion stuck with cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, a glass of white wine, and a quarter of a pint of water. When properly reduced strain it, then add two spoonsful of cream and a piece of butter rolled in flour, set it on the fire again, and keep stirring till it boils. When ready to serve put in a little catsup and some lemon juice. SAUCE, WINE. Mix a spoonful of flour in a tea-cupful of water, with two spoonsful of sugar and one of butter; stir this in half a pint of boiling water, let it boil a few minutes, and add a glass of wine and some nutmeg. SAUCE, WOW-WOW. Chop some parsley very fine, cut in quarters two or three small piclded cucumbers or walnuts, divide them into small pieces, and set them aside till wanted. In the meantime put into a saucepan a .piece of butter about the size of an egg, and when melted stir into it a table-spoonful of fine flour, and about half a pint of broth in which the meat is boiled ; add a table-spoonful of vinegar, a3 much mushroom catsup or port wine, or some broth, and a tea-spoonful of made mustard. Simmer the whole till it is as thick as you want it; then put in the parsley and pickle already S E