MUT [ 235 ] MUT MUTTON, HASHED (with Poached Eggs). Cut the meat from a cold roasted leg of mutton, take out all the sinews and skin, mince it veiy small, and put it in a saucepan. Reduce four spoonsful of Espagnole to one, pour it over the meat, mix it in well, and set it on the fire, hut do not let it boil. When done pour it into a dish, with fried bread cut like corks round it, and poached eggs on it. MUTTON, HAUNCH OF. The haunch should be kept as long as it possibly can be kept sweet, and, if necessary, washed with warm milk and water or vinegar. When going to be dressed it must be carefully washed, to prevent the outside having a bad flavour from keeping. Before you put the haunch to the fire fold it in a paste of coarse flour or strong paper ; then set it a good distance from the fire, and allow proportionable time for the paste, which must not be taken off till about thirty-five or forty minutes before serving the mutton, which must then be basted continually. Bring the haunch nearer before taking off the paste, and froth it up in the same manner as venison. For gravy take 1^ lb. of loin of mutton, simmer it in a pint of water till reduced to half, and use no seasoning but salt; brown it with a little burnt sugar, and serve it up in a dish; but there should be a good deal of gravy in the meat, for, though long at the fire, the covering and distance will prevent it roasting out. Serve with currant- jelly sauce. MUTTON, HAUNCH OF (Like Venison). (1.) Take a fat haunch of large fine mutton, and let it hang a week; then pound 1 oz. of black and 1 oz. of Jamaica pepper, and rub them over the mutton. Pour a bottle of port over it, and let it remain in this five days, basting it frequently eveiy day with the liquor; take it out, and hang it four or five days more, or as long as the weather favours its keeping, wiping it three or four times a day with a clean cloth. While it is roasting baste it with the liquor it was steeped in, adding a little more port wine. A quarter of an hour before taking it from the fire baste it well with butter, and dredge flour over it to froth it up. Serve it with sauces as for venison. MUTTON, HAUNCH OF (Like Venison). (2.) Let the haunch hang nearly the usual time ; then take the skin carefully off, and rub the meat with olive oil; put it into a pan, with a quantity of whole pepper, four cloves of garlic, and a bundle of sweet kerbs, consisting of parsley, thyme, sweet marjoram, and two bay leaves. Pour upon the meat a pint of good vinegar, and three or four table-spoonsful of olive oil; cover the upper surfaces of the meat with slices of raw onion, and turn the mutton every day, always taking care to put the slices of onion on the top surface. At the expiration of four days take the meat out, wipe it with a napkin, and hang it up in a cool place till next day, when it is fit for roasting. A more simple method is to rub it every day, and let it hang until it is tender. A clove or two of garlic will, however, give it a much higher flavour if put into the knuckle when the haunch is hung up. MUTTON, LEG OF. Cut off the shank- bone, and trim the knuckle; put it into luke- warm water for ten minutes, wash it clean, cover it with cold water, let it simmer very gently, and skim it carefully. A leg of 9 lbs. will take two and a half or three hours if you like it thoroughly done, especially in cold weather. The choice pieces with an epicure are the knuckle, the kernel (called " the pope's eye"), and the cramp, or " gentleman's bone." When a leg of mutton is very large you may divide it, roast the fillet, and boil the knuckle end. You may also cut some fine cutlets off the thick end of the leg, and so have two or three good hot dinners. The liquor the mutton is boiled in may be converted into good soup in five minutes, and Scotch barley broth. Thus managed a leg of mutton is a most economical joint. If your leg of mutton is roasted, serve with onion or currant-jelly sauce ; if boiled, serve with caper sauce and vegetables. In roasting or boiling a quarter of an hour is usually allowed for each pound of meat. MUTTON, LEG OF : To Boil. Let the joint be kept until it is tender, but not so long as for roasting, as mutton for boiling will not look of a good colour if it has hung long. To prepare a leg of mutton for boiling, trim it as for roasting, and soak it for a couple of hours in cold water; then put only water enough to cover it, and let it boil gently for three hours if of the largest size, and, if smaller, according to its weight. Some cooks boil it in a cloth ; but if the water be afterwards wanted for soup, that should not be done, as it would be no longer fit for that purpose : some salt and an onion put into it are far better. When nearly ready take it from the fire, and, keeping the pot well covered, let it remain in the steam for ten or fifteen minutes. It is sent to table with caper sauce and mashed turnips. MUTTON, LEG OF : To Eat like Venison. The leg should be large, fat, and cut out like a haunch as soon as killed. Take out the bloody vein, pierce the under side with a knife, pour over it a bottle of red wine, and turn it in the same four or five times every day for nearly a week; then dry it well with a cloth, and hang it up in the air, with the knuckle end downwards, for four days more; dry it perfectly.