IXF L r-z J INF may be lesseued by the mere avoidance of the particulai" causes on which it depends. Many are the opinions that have been enter- tained respecting the nature of inflammation. On these, however, it is not our intention to dwell further than by observing that, when in- flammation is confined to one particular part of the body, without affecting the system generally, it is called phlegmonous or local inflammation ; and when, on the contrary, it produces its effects over the whole system, it is known by the name of general or eiysipelatous inflammation. Phlegmonous or local inflammation. By this species of inflammation is understood an inflammatory circumscribed affection of the skin and cellular membrane, with a swelling rather prominent in the centre, and of a bright red colour, attended with pain and distention, and in which any effusion that happens to take place is usually converted into pus (matter). This kind of inflammation is caused by the application of stimulating substances, such as fire or burning; by external injuries, such as bruises, wounds, overstretching or compressing the parts ; by extraneous bodies, which, either by their form or bulk, produce irritation; by the application of cold; and, in short, by any- thing that determines an increased flow of blood to the part. It comes on with an itching, dryness, redness, increased heat and circulation in the part affected, shortly succeeded by a circumscribed tumour, thi-ough which shooting and throbbing pains extend. When phlegmonous inflammation is consider- able, and runs high, the action of the heart and arteries is increased ; the pulse becomes full, hard, and quick; the skin diy and hot; there is great thirst present, and a feverish tendency comes on. Its common modes of termination are by re- solution, that is, when a natural cure is per- formed by all the symptoms first mentioned giving way, the state and texture of the parts remaining entire; by suppuration, when the serum, or coagulable lymph of the blood, which may have been effused into the adjoining sub- stance, has been converted into pus, or matter, in consequence of which a cavity, termed an abscess, is formed ; by gangrene, which is a mortification not yet actually formed, but coming on, being a state intermediate between the highest point of inflammation and sphacelation, which implies the total loss of life in the part, an absolute derangement of its structure, the abolition of all Its functions, without the possi- bility of its ever being restored to any service in the animal economy. Phlegmonous inflammation may also ter- minate by effusion and adhesion ; that is, with- out ending in suppuration, the matter exuded being fi-equently viscid, often uniting the neigh- bouring parts together in twenty-four or thirty hours. These are the ordinaiy modes of termi- nation of this species of inflammation ; but a fourth has been noticed, which is in schirrus, which implies an indolent knotty hardness of the part, unaccompanied with any discoloration, but attended w^ith shooting pains, the tumour, after a time, ulcerating and becoming cancerous. This termination, however, of inflammation is confined to glandular parts, and is most fre- quently met with in the breasts of females. Symptoms denoting the termination of inflam- mation in suppuration. When the patient is seized with repeated shiverings , when the fever and inflammatory appearance cease suddenly without any perceptible reason ; when, instead of acute pain, a heavy and dull uneasiness is felt in the affected part; when the most ele- vated part of the tumour appears soft and white, while the other pai't of it has its redness increased ; and when a fluctuation can be felt under the finger on pressure, we may infer that a termination in suppuration has ensued. The latter symptom, however, only occurs when the matter is near the surface, although a man possessing a nicety of touch may be able, in many cases, to detect the undulation of matter even when deeply lodged. In most instances of this description the quick disappearance of the inflammatory symptoms, the repeated shiver- ings, and the sense of weight and coldness of the part, are the only obvious indications of matter being formed • but the patient being afterwards attacked with emaciation, night sweats, and other hectic signs, distinctly point out that there is somewhere a collection of hidden matter that cannot be detected by the tact, however exquisite. Symptoms denoting the termination of wflani' mation in gangrene. See Gakgeene. Treatment of phlegmonous or local inflam- mation, &c. At the commencement of a phlegmon, or hoil, the best method is to attempt the cure by procuring, if possible, a resolution of the tumour. For this purpose an early atten- tion should be directed to remove the cause which has given rise to it, as well as to diminish the inflammatoiy disposition, either of the whole system or of the particular part which may be affected. If the inflammation has been caused by some foreign body, such as splinters, pieces of glass, thorns, &c., it ought to be removed as soon as possible, by inducing, if it cannot other- wise be conveniently exti-acted, a healthy sup- puration. But in cases of local inflammation the inflammatory disposition may be moderated, if not entirely obviated, by draining a proper quantity of blood directly from the neighbour-