THR [ ^139 ] THR THICKENING FOR SAUCES. For white thickening put 4 ozs. of the best fresh butter into a stewpan over a clear fire, and when it is melted stir in gradually with a wooden spoon eight table-spoonsful of flour till quite smooth; then put it into an earthen pan, and tie over to keep. It should not be darker than cream. For brown thickening only six spoonsful of flour should be used with 4 ozs. of fresh butter. It should be made over a stronger fire, and browned gradually. If it burn, or have dark specks, it will make sauce bitter. The usual proportion for thickening gravy is a table-spoonful to a quart. THIEVES' VINEGAR. See Aromatic Vinegar. TPIORNBACKS. Let them hang at least one day before they are dressed. They may be served either boiled or fried in bread crumbs, being first dipped in eggs. THORP-ARCH WATER. The village of Thorp-Arch is romantically situated upon the banks of the river Wharfe, between Tadcaster and Wetherby. The mineral spring which has given celebrity to the place was discovered on the 4th of June, 1744. The water issues from the bottom of a lofty limestone rock, over- hanging in some measure the river, and is conveyed, by means of a pump, into a room built for the purpose. When recently draw^n it has a clear sparkling appearance, but on standing a short time it becomes slightly turbid. It is brisk and decidedly saline to the taste. Its temperature is 49°, the surrounding atmosphere being 57°. A wine gallon of this water contains the following:— Grains. Chloride of sodium . 562 00 Chloride of calcium . . J 2 25 Chloride of magnesium . 7-25 Carbonate of iron 1-75 Silica 0-75 584-00 Cubic inches. Carbonic acid . . . 10-55 Azotic gas . 6-00 16-55 This water is aperient and tonic. It operates very mildly, and with considerable certainty. Its chalybeate impregnation and gaseous con- tents prevent the stomach suffering incon- venience from its continued use. It is, there- fore, peculiarly well fitted to remove all diseases of debility arising from a morbid condition of the alimentary canal, and the organs connected with it, as dyspepsia, nervous disorders, and female weaknesses ; glandular obstructions, and bilious complaints. The dose may be from half a pint to a pint, taken in the morning in divided doses, with an interval between of twenty minutes, spent in gentle exercise to aid its operation. The use of acid fruits and fermented liquors should be avoided during a course of this water. The diet should be light and nutritive. Regular habits of life and daily exercise in the air will essentially aid in the restoration of health. THREAD. For the following we are in- debted to Webster and Parkes' " Encyclopaedia of Domestic Economy : "— Thread made of flax, ox linen thread, was formerly imported chiefly from the Netherlands, as Bruges thread, Lisle thread, &c., used for sewing cambric ; but these are now superseded by our own manufactures. The greatest quantity of sewing thread is made in Scotland. White or stitching thread is used for sewing white articles where great strength is required ; but, in general, sewing cotton is now so well made that it is very generally employed instead of thread of flax. Wire thread is a kind much twisted, used by bonnet makers. Patent or Shrewsbury thread is of various colours, and is sold in pound papers for sewing strong coarse articles. Scotch thread is of all colours and thicknesses. Lace thread is for mending lace. The different kinds of cotton thread are chiefly divided into twist, yarn, and sewing thread. The .first is either water twist or mule twist. Water twist, so named because chiefly made by water-mills, is used for weaving calicoes. It is spun hard with a great deal of twist. Mule twist is made by steam engines for weaving muslins and the finest cotton goods, and is somewhat softer than the former. Stocking yarn, for stocking weaving, is spun softer than twist, and two threads are afterwards doubled together, and then slightly twisted round each other. Cotton sewing thread, usually called sewing cotton, has of late been made so beautifully b}' machinery, and its utility and cheapness are so well known, that it has in a measure superseded the use of linen thread formerly used. White hall cotton is of various sizes, distin- guished from each other by numbers or by letters. There is also coloured ball cotton. Reel cotton is a superior kind. These are now extensively used for sewing, instead of the linen thread employed before the cotton was brought to such perfection ; but the latter is not nearly so strong nor so durable for many purposes as flax thread. To free cotton thread from its divergent