[ 135 ] LEE LEG this plan is not applicable when the leeches are used for external inflammations: indeed, in such cases leeches are particularly valuable, because cupping cannot be resorted to. Stopping the bleeding of leech bites. The bleeding of leech bites is very uncertain, the orifices often closing soon after the leeches have fallen off, so that but little blood is obtained ; whilst they will as often continue to bleed most profusely for many hours, and in this way either endanger the life of the child, to whom it gene- rally occurs, or reduce him to a state of great weakness. This is by no means an unfrequent occur- rence, and cases are recorded in which death has followed the application of even a limited number of leeches. Medical men generally calculate on the con- tinuance of bleeding for three or four hours ; but they are often sent for in a great hurry to calm the apprehensions of the patient's friends by closing the oozing orifices. These appre- hensions are generally unfounded; but in al- most all cases it is found that, from ignorance of the proper mode of stopping the bleeding, the nursery is a scene of confusion and helpless terror. Practitioners often smile on these occasions, in wonder that it should not sometimes occur to an unprofessional person, that a finger placed on each of the leech bites will command the bleed- ing for as long a time as it is held there, and that thus all apprehension may be, in every instance, calmed in a moment. But no; the fright of the moment takes away all reasoning power, the child is covered with bundles of cloths or a mass of flour, or hat fur, or other similar substances, from under which the blood issues in defiance of means so inefficient. Neither hair powder, nor flour, nor the fur of hats, nor other applications of that kind, will be of the least avail where the bleeding is so violent as to require to be restrained by artificial means. There are, however, numerous modes of restraining bleeding from leech bites, several of which are at the command of every one. A finger placed on the orifice commands the bleeding, as is stated above ; but, as the blood in drying glues it to the skin, the bleeding generally recurs, on account of the violence necessary in removing the finger; or it is in- convenient to hold it there long enough per- manently to close the orifice in the bleeding vessel. It is easy to turn this gluing property of the blood to good account. A lady had a leech bite on her temple which bled profusely, in spite of the skilful application of caustic, which is in almost every case effectual. A bit of rag, half an inch square, was placed on the leech bite, care being taken that the part was at the moment as free from blood as possible. This bit of linen was held on by the finger. In about five minutes it was found that the blood had glued the linen to the part; and as sufficient blood had not been allowed to collect underneath to wet the linen through, and thus fasten the finger to the linen, the former was removed, the linen remained, and the bleeding did not return. LEEK, SCOTCH, SOUP. Put the water in which a leg of mutton has been boiled into a stewpan, with a quantity of chopped leeks, pepper, and salt, and simmer them an hour; then mix some oatmeal with a little cold water till quite smooth, pour it into the soup, and let it simmer gently over a slow fire, taking great care that it does not burn at the bottom. LEEK SOUP. Wash and cut some leeks in pieces about an inch in length, and give them a few turns over the fire in some butter; then add broth to them, and when they have simmered in it for about three quarters of an hour soak your bread in the usual manner, and pour on it the leeks and soup. LEEKS are most generally used for soups, ragouts, and other made dishes. They are very rarely brought to table. LEEKS WITH TOASTS. Take a dozen fine leeks, split them nearly in half, and wash well; tie them like asparagus, and put them into a stewpan of boiling water, with a handful of salt. When well done put them on a sieve to drain. In the meantime make two thick toasts, well butter them, and serve the leeks upon them. LEG, BROKEN. {See Fractures.) In the absence of a surgeon reduce the pieces of the bones into their natural situation; secure and keep them in their place by proper bandages and splints, and try to prevent unpleasant symp- toms ; and relieve them when, in spite of every efl"ort to the contrary, they do arise. When a leg is broken the patient must keep his bed for several weeks. It is by no means necessary, however, that he should lie all that time, as is customary, upon his back. This situation sinks the spirits, galls and frets the patient's skin, and renders him very uneasy. After the second week he may be gently raised up, and may sit several hours, supported by a bed-chair, or the like, which will greatly relieve him. Great care, however, must be taken, in raising him up and laying him down, that he make no exertions himself, otherwise the action of the muscles may pull the bone out of its place. It is of great importance to keep the patient dry and clean while in this situation. By neglecting this he is often so galled and ex- coriated that he is forced to keep shifting places