LEM [ 141 ] LEM infuse it in three quarts of the best brandy for three weeks, at the end of which time add f lb. of finely clarified sugar to each quart. Let it stand a fortnight longer; then filter and bottle it. LEMON PICKLE. Wipe six lemons, cut i each into eight pieces, and put on them 1 lb. of salt, six large cloves of garlic, 2 ozs. of finely shred horseradish, J oz. of cloves, the same quantity of mace, the same of nutmeg, ditto of Cayenne, and 2 ozs. of flour of mustard. To these add two quarts of vinegar, put it into a strong jar in a kettle of boiling water, or set the jar on a hot hearth till done. Set the jar by, and stir it daily for six weeks. Keep the jar closely covered. Put the pickle into small bottles. LEMON POSSET. Squeeze the juice of two lemons into a china bowl or small deep dish which will hold a quart, sweeten it like syrup, and aid a little brandy. Boil one pint of cream with a bit of orange-peel, take out the latter, and when cold put the cream into a tea- pot, and pour it to the syrup, holding it high. Make it a day before it is wanted. LEMON PUDDING (1). Peel four lemons i thin, boil them till they are tender, rub them I through a haii- sieve, and preserve the fine pulp. Take 1 lb. of Naples biscuits, a little grated nutmeg, and 2 ozs. of fresh butter, and pour over them some boiling milk or cream in which a stick of cinnamon has been boiled. When cold mix with them the pulp of the lemons, and eight eggs well beaten ; sweeten according to taste, and if you choose add brandy. Edge a dish with good puff paste, put in the mixture, garnish the top with strings of paste as for tartlets, and bake in a moderately heated oven. LEMON PUDDING (2). Put i lb. of fresh butter vfith i lb. of loaf sugar into a saucepan, and keep stirring over the fire till it boils ; j put it into an earthen pan, grate the rind of a large lemon into it, and let it stand till cold. Beat eight eggs, and squeeze the juice of the lemon on them; mix the sugar and butter with them; lay some rich puff paste on the bottom of I a dish ; then put in the preparation, and add bits of candied lemon-peel. Bake with great care. LEMON PUFF. Beat and sift 1^ lb. of double-refined sugar; grate the rind of two lemons, and mix the same with the sugar; then beat the whites of three new-laid eggs, add them to the sugar and ped, and beat up for an liour; make it up into shape, and bake it on ] aper, laid on tin plates, in a moderate oven. The paper must remain till cold. Oiling it \\ill make it come off with ease. LEMON, QUINTESSENCE OF. Best oil of lemon, 1 drachm; strongest rectified spirit, 2 ozs., introduced by degrees till the spirit kills, and completely mixes with the oil. This elegant preparation possesses all the de- lightful fragrance and flavour of the freshest lemon-peel. LEMON SAUCE. Pare a lemon and cut it into slices ; take out the seeds and chop it small; boil the liver of a fowl and bruise it; mix these in the gravy; then melt some butter, put in the liver, &c., and add a little of the peel chopped very small. LEMON SAUCE FOR BOILED FOWLS (1) . Cut thin slices of lemon into very small dice, and put them into melted butter. Give it one boil, and pour it over boiled fowls. LEMON SAUCE FOR BOILED FOWLS (2) . Put the peel of a small lemon, cut ex- tremely thin, into a pint of sweet, rich cream, with a sprig of lemon thyme and ten white pep- percorns ; simmer gently till it tastes well of lemon; then strain it, and thicken it with | lb. of butter rubbed in a dessert-spoonful of flour. Boil it up; then pour the juice of the lemoa (strained) into it, stirring it well. Dish the fowls, and then mix a little white gravy, quite hot, with the cream, but do not boil them to- gether. Add salt according to your taste. LEMON SHERBET. Dissolve H lb. of white sugar in a quart of clear water ; take nine large lemons, wipe them perfectly clean, cut each across, and squeeze the juice into the dissolved sugar ; plunge the lemons into the sugared water, and press them so as to extract not only the juice, but the oil contained in the rind. Mix the whole together, and strain it. through a close hair sieve; pour the liquid into a sarbotiere, and finish in the same manner as Cbeam Shebbet. LEMON SHRUB. To U lbs. of white sugar add eighteen gills of water, and clarify it over the fire with the whites of from four to six eggs. To this syrup add the strained juice of eight dozen lemons, and simmer it a little. When cool bottle it for use. You may add, if you think fit, three pints of old brandy. LEMON SPONGE. Boil i oz. of isinglass in a pint of water till dissolved; strain it, and the following day add the juice of two lemons and the grated peel of one ; rub through a hair sieve into the isinglass a good quantity of raspberry jam that has stood before the fire some time, and whisk all up together till like a. sponge; put it into an earthen mould, set it in a cold place for some hours, and turn it out. Any other sort of preserve may be used, and if made only with lemon juice sweeten it with sugar. LEMON SWEETMEATS. Take 1 lb. of marchpane paste, and mix it with as many yolks of eggs as will enable you to spread the paste with a knife, adding to it a sufficient