LIQ LIQ [ 153 ] or thrice, if necessary, through filtering paper. If it is bright and clear after coming through the filtering paper the first time it need not be filtered again. LIQUEUR, CURAgOA (1). Boil a quart of water in a very clean stewpan ; add to it, bit by bit, 1 lb. of dark brown sugar candy, and when the whole is dissolved let the syrup boil up ; then pour it into a deep dish to cool. Do not use the syrup until it is quite cold. Into a quart of spirits of wine drop one hundred and twenty drops of oil of bitter orange. When the latter is dissolved mix it with the syrup just described; then filter and bottle the liqueur, which should be of a rich brown colour. LIQUEUR, CURAgOA (2). Make an in- fusion of 3 ozs. of the thin peel of fresh Seville oranges, 4^ lbs. of sugar, and a good pinch of Brazil wood in six quarts of good brandy. In a few days filter it, and bottle it for use. LIQUEUR, GOLDEN WASSER, or Dantzic Brandt. To a quart of spirits of wine add twelve drops of oil of aniseed, six drops of oil of cinnamon, three drops of oil of roses, and eight drops of oil of citron, and shake them well. As soon as the oils are dissolved mix with it a quart of the syrup, filter it through filtering paper, and before you bottle the liqueur stir into it a square of gold leaf cut into very little pieces. LIQUEUR, KtiMMEL. To a quart of spirits of wine add seventy drops of oil of caraways, and after you have shaken it well mix with it a quart of syrup ; filter it, and it will be fit to bottle. LIQUEUR, MARASCHINO. Take a quart of spirits of wine, and infuse in it for a month thirty black cherry stones entirely free from the pulp, and washed clean. Filter this liquor through blotting paper, clarify 2^ lbs. of fine sugar, pour it to the liquor, and add a quart of water and a pint of rum ; shake up the mixture •well, and bottle it. This liqueur is extremely agreeable, LIQUEUR, NOYEAU. Into a quart of spirits of wine put twenty drops of good essential oil of bitter almonds, and six drops of oil of orange ; shake it well, and then add a quart of syrup. Filter it through the paper till it is clear and bright. LIQUEUR, POMERANZEN, is made by adding to a quart of spirits of wine ninety drops ol oil of orange and a quart of the syrup. It must be filtered. LIQUEUR, WACKHOLDER. Into a quart of spirits of wine put thirty drops of oil of juniper, shake well, and add a quart of the syrup. When it is filtered bottle it for use. LIQUEUR, WALNUT. Take eighty walnuts, green, but sufficiently formed for a pin to pass through tnem ; crush them, and let them infuse two months in four quarts of brandy. Next strain the liquor from the walnuts, put into it 2 lbs. of sugar, and let it settle three months more ; then filter and bottle it. LIQUEURS. The enormous cost of the French, German, Dutch, and Italian liqueurs, not only in this country, but in every other, renders their being prepared in a cheap form a most desirable thing. As an agreeable ter- mination to a repast, and at the same time a gentle and wholesome stimulus, that induces the stomach to perform its digestive functions more kindly, these liqueurs are in great request among the wealthy; but from the excessive price at which they are sold the less affluent classes are debarred from their use, and obliged to resort to the gin or brandy bottle, the contents of which are taken either in the form of a dram or mixed with hot water and sugar, the water being used very sparingly. The particular effect looked to from the use of these cordial preparations is a gentle action of the stomach, and nothing more. They are, therefore, to be taken sparingly. Hence the object of having a very small glass, which contains a sufficient dose to prove beneficial. Brandy, gin, or any other spirit, being almost, perhaps quite, as strong as the liqueurs, is always taken in too great quantities to do good, and is, besides, devoid of the agreeable perfume which gives such a relish to the liqueur, and makes it grateful to the palate. Let us not, however, be understood to say that the use of liqueurs ought to explode that of wine. On the contrary, one must co-operate with the other. A small glass of liqueur is no bad winding up to three or four glasses of port or sherry, though it would do just as much good as if no wine at all had been drunk. But the practice of taking spirit and water as a sub- stitute for wine is bad, because, unless the mixture be very weak, the spirit excites the stomach to a very injurious degree, and impedes, instead of aiding the digestion. In all foreign countries the liqueur is used as a chasse cafe. being taken immediately after the small cup of very strong coffee with which every foreign dinner concludes. Neither the French, nor the Germans, nor the Italians sit sotting after din- ner as we Englishmen do after the ladies have left the table. Abroad that odious practice of turning the ladies out of the dining-room is unknown. Ladies and gentlemen all rise after the dessert has been partaken of, and if the coffee and liqueur are not taken at the dinner- table, which they usually are, retire together to the drawing-room, and take them there. Such a practice, were it adopted here, would be found far preferable to the besotted habits