[ 338 ] PLA PLA they lock it up in the chest or the drawer in which it is kept; nor should they have permission to give the key of this drawer to any one of the servants unless upon some emergency. This frequent and regular investigation is the surest method of keeping together all the smaller articles of plate. It leads to an immediate inquiry when any part of it is missing, and it may also enable the responsible servant to ascertain which individual of the family had it last in use. It makes the housemaid attentive in bringing down the spoons, which are now and then required in bedrooms ; and, indeed, it checks the care- lessness of all the servants, by which the plate is often mislaid. When any article of plate is missing, and the strictest search for it has been unsuccessful, it becomes the duty of the servant who has it in charge to inform his employers of the loss, that they may examine into the circumstances, and endeavour to discover how it has happened. If this examination satisfy them that the loss is to be attributed to accident alone, it is not likely that they will be very severe, or demand remuneration from their servant. They will rather endeavour to explain to him that they do not desire to punish him for a misfortune, but only by proper restraints, and by the apprehension of disgrace, to keep him from error. Another good authority, in giving directions for the management of plate, says the best plan is to provide a wicker basket with three compartments in it, and the handle in the middle. One will contain the smaller spoons and forks ; the other will hold the salt cellars, mustard pot, &c.; and the third will receive the soup ladle, fish slice, gravy spoons, &c. With even one servant this plate may be kept in ex- cellent condition by a little care. It should never be left in the kitchen, or any other part accessible to strangers: a sideboard drawer or inner closet in a store-room would be desirable. A japanned tray also should be provided, with a clean knife-cloth at the bottom; and, before the dishes are removed at dinner time, every spoon that has been used should be laid upon the cloth in the tray, and be set away in a kitchen drawer until the tea things are washed in the evening. This regulation will insure their not being tossed into the dish-tub, to be scratched and shuffled about among the plates and dishes, and most probably from being emptied away into any receptacle for hog-wash, or down a drain, &c. A servant should also be instructed to wash spoons one at a time, and not to take them up several together in the hand like a bundle of quills. The best material for cleaning plate that is in constant use is soap and water, with a soft cloth. If a dark tarnished spot should appear, a little damp whiting on a small brush will soon remove it. For plate that has long lain by, liqueur castors, cruet stands, &c., first wash it with the incomparable soap and water, and if needful (in consequence of tamish) smear it all over with whiting and spirits of-wine, or common gin, set it to dry, and then brush it off. De- canter stands, and other articles which must not be washed, on account of the varnished satin wood and green baize, should be subjected to the latter treatment only. The best plate powder is the purest whiting, because it is soft, and is not a metallic prepara- tion, as are rouge and other advertised plate powders. These act upon the silver, and wear it rapidly away. The only objection to whiting is that it gives the plate a poor and white appearance, whereas the hue that is imparted to it by rouge is that dai'k and steel-like surface at once so beautiful and rich. The plate ought to be free from grease; therefore wash it in boiling water, and if it have rough edges brush them well before beginning to clean it. You should be provided with a sponge and leathers. The first should be well soaked in water before using it, and the last soft and thick. Plate powder or whiting may be used either wet or dry. If wet do not put too much on the plate at once. Rub the article, if plain, with the bare hand. Small articles, such as spoons and forks, can be done between the finger and thumb. The longer plate is rubbed the better it will look. When done enough brush the powder or whiting from out of the crevices and the crest, and from between the prongs of the forks. Be careful in handling such small articles as salt and tea-spoons, lest they should break or bend. Keep a clean leather to finish rubbing the plate with after it is brushed, and always dust the articles with a fine linen cloth before they are laid out on the dinner-table. Plated articles require more care than silver in cleaning. Soft brushes should be used, but not too often, and plate powder in preference to whiting by itself. Do not rub them more than you can help, or they will tarnish; neither brush them more than is necessary, or the silver will wear off, and of course no cleaning can make them look well when this is the case. The best thing for plated articles is spirit of wine or oil; and take care to keep them dry, and never let them remain dirty, for they will rust if plated on steel, and canker if plated on. copper. All articles not in constant use should be covered over with two or three folds of silver paper, and they will keep untarnished. After cleaning plate wash your brushes with warm water and soap, and then set them to dry with the wooden side uppermost, as that