MAD [ 178 ] MAG ^vitli pain or uneasiness of the head, or of some other diseased organ; and its degree is deter- mined by the age, habits, situation, and original vigorous or feeble constitution of the patient. From its being always followed in the morning by the peculiar appearance of tlie eye already described, it may sometimes lead to proper sus- picion, as well as attention to the diseased per- son. This watchfulness is attended with an irresistible impulse to rise early, go abroad, and ramble about; or, if remaining in the house, to be incessantly employed in arranging and re- arranging articles of furniture, dress, books, or papers; and by thus placing, displacing, and confounding everything, their ideas become more confused, and they soon give rise to actions ■wild and outrageous. The memoiy is early affected in maniacs. After a time it seems to be almost destroyed. Some, according to Haslam, lose in a wonderful degree their former coiTectness of orthography. Pusillanimity is also a remarkable trait in the character of the insane. Though occasionally boisterous and fierce, yet they are readily over- come by a person of decision. Their leading characteristics are timidity, distrustfulness, sus- picion, never contented with their present con- dition, but always desirous of some change. It is this discontent of mind that detaches them from their parents and friends, and causes them to hate most those whom they previously cherished with the fondest affection. The ex- ceptions to this are few, and even if they retain the semblance of affection, still they will bestow no confidence on the objects of it, nor pay any respect to their solicitations or advice. This alienation from friends is, therefore, one of the most constant and pathognomonic traits of the malady; and frequently the first favourable symptom is a diminution of the constant dis- content. The duration of a paroxysm is very various. It continues for days, weeks, months, and even years, and ends in death, a state of fatuity, a remission, or a perfect and durable recovery. Dr. Rush states that in one case which came imder his notice the disease continued from June, 1810, until April, 1811, with scarcely any abatement in the excitement of the body and mind, notwithstanding the patient was con- stantly under the operation of depleting reme- dies. He also witnessed another instance in ■which the same remedies were insufficient to produce an interruption for five minutes of speech or vociferations, except during a few short intervals of sleep, for five months. Others, again, have paroxysms, with chronic but moderate derangement in their intervals; and in these intervals the recovery is sometimes so great as to indicate insanity on a particular subject only; but a reference to this will readily excite a return of general madness. If the paroxysm ceases suddenly we have reason to di"ead the return of another. On its cessation the patient seems waked from a dream; he is exhausted, speaks or moves but little, and seeks solitude; and if there is an approach to reason he states what he has seen, heard, or felt, his motives, and his determina- tions.—[Beck's Medical Jurisprudence.) MADNESS, CANINE. See Htdeophobta. MAGGOTS in meat are the larvae of the blue- bottle or flesh fly. To check their occurrence meat should be kept in a wire safe, and rubbed over with powdered ginger. See Puteefaction. MAGNESIA is the name usually applied to this white earth when used in medicine. But it occurs in the chemist's shop combined with carbonic acid, or calcined, which means that the carbonic acid has been driven away from the magnesia by exposing it for a long time to an intense heat. Magnesia should not be taken by persons liable to piles, as it exasperates the symptoms, but it is commonly used to remove heartburn. See Acidity of the Stomach. Magnesia is of considerable service for pre- venting or removing many disorders of children, especially of such as are troubled vnth a redun- dance of acid in the first passages, for which purpose it is preferable to the calcareous ab- sorbents. But even magnesia is frequently misapplied, and ought never, unless it be cal- cined, to be given to infants disposed to flatu- lency, or where no symptoms of acidity can be discovered, as it is otherwise apt to lodge in the bowels, and produce obstinate costiveness, being in itself an inactive earth unless com- bined with acids. Hence it is often and very properly conjoined with rhubarb, so that chil- dren above one year old may take from five to ten grains of the former, and from one to two grains of the latter; while adults generally require one or two scruples of magnesia, and from five to ten grains of rhubarb for a mode- MAGNESIA, FLUID. To a boiling solu- tion of 16ozs. of sulphate of magnesia in six pints of water, add a solution of 19 ozs. of crystallised carbonate of soda in the same quantity of water; boil the mixture till gas ceases to escape, stirring constantly; then set it aside to settle, pour off the liquid, and wash the precipitate on a cotton or linen cloth with wai-m water till the latter passes tasteless. Mix the precipitate, without diying it, with a gallon of water, and force carbonic acid gas into it under strong pressure till a complete solution is effected. MAGNESIA, MOXON'S EFFERVES- CENT, Mix together carbonate of magnesia,