HER HER [ 38 ] when they are perfectly dried to put them into bags, aud lay them ivi a dry place ; but the best way to preserve the flavour of aromatic plants is to pick off the leaves as soon as they are dried, and to pound them ; pass them through a hair sieve, and keep them iu well-stoppered bottles. HERBS EN PAPILLOTES. Grate i lb. of bacon, and put it, with six spoonsful of oil and ^ lb. of butter, into a saucepan; add to it four dessert - spoonsful of mushrooms shred small, and give them a few turns over the fire. When done put in two dessertspoonsful of shallots, and give them a turn or two ; do the same with two spoonsful of parsley, and then do the whole together, adding pepper, salt, and spices. When done put the herbs into a pan, to be used when wanted. The herbs must all be 6hred small before they are put into the saucepan. HERBS, POTTAGE OF. Take some sorrel, lettuce, leeks, and chervil; mince them very small, and do them up in a little fresh butter. When well amalgamated and sufficiently done moisten them with a proper quantity of stock or broth, and pour the whole on the bread, prepared as usual, in a soup tureen. HERBS, STEWED. Take some spinach, two handsful of parsley, and one handful of ecallions ; chop the two latter, sprinkle them among the spinach, and put them into a stew- pan, with a little salt and a bit of butter When it begins to heat shake the pan, keeping it closely covered, and let it stand over a stove till done. HERBS, SWEET. The most economical way in town to procure sweet herbs is from the herbalists. In the country it is the gardener's business, while the care of them iu both cases belongs to the cook. They ought to be ground two or three times, and the mill tightened each time. Two or three diff'erent mixtures are to be made, and put carefully up in well-stoppered glass bottles. This prevents the possibility of any one flavour overpowering the others. Oyster, mushroom, truffle, and celery powders ought all to be kept separately, as they are used in greater quantity; at any rate it gives more variety. These bottles ought all to be labelled, and kept in order over the dresser in a place fitted for them. The cook ought to attend to dry every savouiy herb that is left. The outer stalks of celery, which would be acrid when green, upon being dried become as pleasant for soup as the stock. Every sprig of parsley, fennel, or sweet herb that has lieen only an hour iu a soup pot, will, if hung in a screen, answer two or three times, and give a finer flavour than at first. Much expense might be saved by a cook's management and attention to these apparent trifles, which it is impossible for a mistress to enter into. Bay, from containing prussic acid, acts upon the nervous system, on which account it is very dangerous, and ought not to be used in cooking of any kind. Black hriony. Young shoots used in soups, or eaten as asparagus. Burnet. Astringent, cordial, vulnerary, pec- toral, and possessing the flavour of the cucumber. It is very precious to the cook, who ought to have vinegar made of it. Common whitlow. This grass seed is so hot that it might be used for pepper. Coventry bells. Root cooling. Pot herb. Vill. Good in flatulence, alleviating, and digestive. Fennel. Leaves diuretic; root opening, aro- matic, and hot. Root eaten as celeiy. Golden thistle. Root used as eryngo. Hops. The young shoots ai^e eaten in spring as asparagus. Hyssop. Pectoral when used as tea. Soaked in water and applied, discutient in contusions and black eyes. Leeks. Expectorant. A powerful diuretic and dissolver of calculi. Marigold. Renovating, hepatic, diaphoretic, and emmenagogue. It is to be regretted that this herb is getting into disuse. Marjoram,. Heating. Parsley. Diuretic. Cleanses the breath from garlic and other strong taints. Primrose tree. Used as salad. Cleanses foul ulcers. Purslane. Used as a pot herb. Coolincr. Used in scurvy, heat of urine, and bilious disorders. Vermifuge. One of the cold seeds. Star of Bethlehem. Roots eaten raw or in soups; seeds used to make bread. Summer savory. Very acrid. Seldom used. Sweet basil. Much used in France, and that which gave a peculiar flavour to the original Fetter-lane sausages. Tansy. Used in puddings. Vermifuge and uterine. Used in colic and gout. Winter savory. Vermifuge. HERNIA, or Rupture. Children and old people are most liable to this disease. In the former it is generally occasioned by excessive crying, coughing, vomiting, or the like. In the latter it is commonly the eff'ect of blows or violent exertions of the strength, as leaping, carrying great weights, &c. In both a relaxed habit, indolence, and an oily or very moist diet, dispose the body to this disease. A rupture sometimes proves fatal before it is discovered. Whenever sickness, vomiting, and obstinate costiveness give reason to suspect an obstruction of the bowels, all those places wheie