NEC [ 218 ] into it, will usually remove tliis inconvenience. We have seen it cured immediately by a hot washerwoman's iron being applied to the stiff side, two or three folds of flannel interposing. NECKLACES. See Anodyne Necklaces. NECTAR (1). Take 2 lbs. of raisins chopped, and 4 lbs. of loaf sugar; put them into a vessel with a tap to it, and pour two gallons of boiling water upon them. The next day, when cold, slice two lemons into it. Let it stand five days, stirring it twice a day, and then let it stand five days more to clear. Bottle it, put it into a cold cellar for ten days, and it will be fit to drink. NECTAR (2). Take I lb. of the best raisins stoned and chopped, four lemons sliced thin, with the yellow rind pared off from two other lemons, and 2 lbs. of loaf sugar powdered. Put into a porcelain preserving kettle two gallons of water, stew it over the fire, and boil it half an hour; then, when the water is boiling hard, put in the raisins, lemon, and sugar, and continue the boiling for ten minutes. Pour the mixture into a vessel with a close cover, and let it stand four days, stirring it twice a day; then strain it through a linen bag and bottle it. It will be fit for use in a fortnight. It may be drunk from wine-glasses with a small bit of ice in it. NECTARINE PUDDING. Scald the fruit; peel, beat, and sweeten it. Beat six yolks and two whites of eggs, and mix the whole together with a pint of cream; put it into a dish lined with cream paste : as the pudding stuff requires a moderate oven, puff paste will not answer. A cook ought to attend to this, as either the paste or pudding will be spoiled unless she does. Make a paste of the kernels, and put it into the pudding. NECTARINES : To Peeserve. Split the nectarines, and take out the stones; then put them into clarified sugar, boil them till they have thoroughly taken the sugar, clear off all the scum, cover them with paper, and set them by. The following day boil a little more sugar to a strong souffle, put it to the nectarines, and give them a good boil; take off the scum, cover them, and put them into the stove. The next day drain them, and lay them out to dry, having previously dusted them a little with sugar, and then put them into the stove again. NEEDLES. The principal varieties of needles are—croivn or common; WliitecliaiJel; royal improved; best London; best Chappel; best sorted Chappel; blunts, used by glovers and tailors; yarn, looping, and knitting needles; Williamss, Daviss; Sheppard's, and Boultons (these are sold in papers containing twenty- five each); ivorsted darners, stouter and longer, and the eye larger than the cotton; and packing needles. An instrument called a needle threader has been invented, which is found to be ex- tremely useful to those whose sight is not very good. A small hole is bored longitudinally in a piece of wood or metal of the size of a thick blacklead pencil, into which the needle to be threaded is placed with its eye down- wards ; a hole is made in the side of the threader just opposite the place where the eye of the needle will reach to ; and this hole is made conical, spreading outwards. Although it might be difficult to see the eye of the needle itself out of the threader, yet there can be no difficulty in seeing this conical aperture, and in directing the thread into it; but, as soon as the point of the thread is pushed into it, it cannot fail to pass through the eye of the needle, which may then be drawn out threaded. It is obvious that a single threader can only suit one size of 11G G cll 6 NELSON PUDDING. Put into a Dutch oven six rice cakes made in tea-cups. When hot pour over them melted butter, white wine, and sugar, and serve them up. NERVOUS FEVER. The symptoms are lassitude, loss of appetite, the pulse low and frequent, alternate cold and hot fits, a bad unusual taste, thirst, vomiting, and depression of spirits. The strength is greatly impaired. The urine is scanty and fetid. There are pains in the head, back, and loins. The functions of the brain are a little disturbed. In severe attacks the perspiration is copious and exhaust- ing. Looseness supervenes, and delirium, which is low and constant. The causes are such as poor diet, bad air, want of exercise, sleep interrupted, immoderate venery, mental aiSiction, and too powerful evacuations. Nervous fever may be known from that of the inflammatory description by the state of the pulse, prostration of sti'ength, and by the fear and anxiety which attend it; and from the putrid febrile affection by the heat, thirst, and. vomiting being less, and by the absence of malignant eruption. The favourable symptoms of this disease, which proves sometimes of long continuance, are the tongue keeping moist, the pulse be- coming fuller, eruptions about the mouth, and delirium being seldom present. Profuse sweat copious discharge by stool, faintings, great pi'os- tration of strength, and constant delirium, are indications of danger. Trembling of the hands and tongue, gathering of the bedclothes, and starting of the tendons are forerunners of a fatal termination. Tea with cream and sugar, coffee, chocolate, broth, lemonade, negus, wine, beef tea, jellies and by degrees the stronger articles of nutritious diet, may be had recourse to.