HUG [ oi ] HYD Bioually, as the cloths are found necessaiy to be removed, though the steps ought to be swept down every daj'. After cleaning the Btairs she should dust the wainscot and balusters directly, and also the tops of the doors. As for the ceilings, or tops of the staircases or rooms, they should be dusted with a long-handled flat broom; but if they be of stucco work the dust should be blown off by a pair of large bellows with long handles, which may be had at the turners' shops. When she goes to clean the stairs let her take soft cold water and sand to scour them down with, and they will soon be dry. When the family is up she should set open the windows of the bedchambers, and uncover the beds to sweeten and air them, which will be a great help against bugs and fleas. In making the beds she ought to begin with the first aired, taking off the several things singly, and laying them on two chairs, without letting them touch the floor. She should shake the beds well every day, and if there be a mattress let her turn it at least once a week. The cleaning of the head of the bed, the valances, and curtains with a brush or whisk is not to be omitted; nor sweeping clean behind and under all the bed- steads, after which she is to sweep and clean ever}' room as before directed. By thus keep- ing a constant method her business will be a pleasure instead of fatigue. HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING. Make a batter of five eggs to a quart of milk and a little butter; pick, wash, and rub in flour a pint or more huckleberries, put them in the batter, and bake as long as other puddings, or boil in a bag. HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING, ELK- RIDGE. Take 1 lb. of flour, 1 lb. of light brown sugar, eight eggs beaten as for a sponge cake, and add one quart of berries nicely picked, washed, and allowed to dry. Bake as a sponge cake. This may be served with sauce either hot or cold. HUILES ANTIQUES. These oils for the hair may be made of any fragrance desired by adding a few drops of attar of roses, oil of lavender, oil of bergamot, &c., to the required quantity of oil of ben. This oil never becomes thick or rank. HUNGARY WATER. Take 7 lbs. of the tops, with the leaves and flowers of rosemary, six gallons of rectified spirits, and two quarts of water, and djstil off five gallons with a moderate fire. HUNTING BEEF. See Beef, Hunting. HUNTING BREAD. Mix Hlb. of fine flour and 1 lb. of sugar; add caraway and coriander seeds, six yolks of eggs, and four of the whites beaten up in a little rose water, and strained into the flour. After this put in a little yeast, roll it out thinly, and cut it in square pieces, to be baked on buttered paners or sheets of tin. HUNTING NUTS. Beat 2 ozs. of butter to a cream, and add 4 ozs. of sugar and 8 ozs. of treacle; mix these well, and add 2 ozs. of powdered ginger, 1 oz. of candied lemon-peel cut small, and 10 ozs. of flour. Mix all well together, and form into rolls the thickness of a finger; cut them into bits, and bake on a tin in a hot oven. HUNTING PUDDING. Mix eight eggs beaten up finely with a pint of good cream and 1 lb. of flour; beat them well together, and put to them 1 lb. of beef suet finely chopped, I lb. of currants well cleaned, lb. of jai" raisins stoned and chopped small, 2 ozs. of candied orange- peel cut small, the same of candied citron, J lb. of powder sugar, and a large mitmeg grated. Mix all these together with half a gill of brandy, put it into a cloth, and boil it four hours. Be sure to put it in when the water boils, and keep it boiling all the time. When done turn it into a dish, and strew over it powder sugar. HYDROCEPHALUS, See Brain, Water ON THE. HYDROCYANIC ACID. [See Anodyne.) This is more usually known as prussic acid. This peculiar acid exists in a great variety of native combinations in the vegetable kingdom, and imparts to them certain properties which have been long known and esteemed in medicine. The more familiar of these are bitter almonds, the cherry laurel {Laura cerasus), the leaves of the peach tree, the kernels of fruit, pips of apples, &c. The prussic acid would appear to be most abundant in the thin pellicle that en- velopes the kernel. The fleshy parts of these fruits do not contain it, and even the berries of the Lauro cerasus may be eaten with impunity ; and yet the distilled water and oil of this plant form the most destructive of all narcotic poisons. It is administered in its simple but diluted form. In a sufficient dose hydrocyanic acid in- stantly destroys life by extinguishing the nervous energy of the body; but it has, at the same time, been observed that animals submitted to its action would often continue to breathe for several hours freely, and to circulate their blood, although no trace of sensibility or mus- cular contractility could be found after its application. This remarkable property of ex- tinguishing the general sensibility, without any ostensible injury to respiration and circulation, naturally led to a belief that the hydrocyanic acid, or prussic acid, might be advantageously used in cases of excessive sensibility and irrita- tion, particularly when these two morbid states