PIS PIS f 834 ] -pistaclilo niitSi 2 ozs. of sweet almonds, the whites of sixteen and the yolks of eight eggs, 2 ozs. of flour, and 1 lb. of powder sugar; blanch and pound the pistachios and almonds, moistening occasionally with white of egg; beat the whites and yolks separately—with the latter, half the sugar and some grated lemon- peel. When both are thoroughly beaten join them together, beating constantly, and as you do so sift over them the i-emainder of the flour and sugar, and then the almonds and pistachios. Have some paper cases ready, into which pour your preparation ; glaze, and bake your biscuits in a moderately heated oven. PISTACHIO BISCUIT SOUFFLES. Blanch J lb. of pistachios, half of which cut in slices, and the other half mince small; whip the whites of three eggs very firmly, then mix with them the sliced pistachios and ^Ib. of sifted sugar. Have ready a number of paper cases about an inch square ; put your preparation into them, taking care they are not more than half full; sprinkle powder sugar over, and as soon as that is dissolved strew the minced pistachios, put them in a gentle oven, and colour them of a reddish yellow. PISTACHIO BLANC-MANGER. Blanch 4 ozs. of pistachio, pound them with ^ oz. of preserved cedrat, dilute the paste with half a glass of water, and then extract the milk by squeezing it tightly in a napkin ; mix with the milk 6 ozs. of powder sugar and I oz. of isin- glass ; take 1 lb. of sweet almonds, and pound them to a fine paste, which dilute with three glasses of water; extract the milk as usual, divide this into two parts, putting to one part the pistachio milk and a small quantity of spinach essence, and to the other 6 ozs. of dis- solved sugar in a glass of warm water, and ^ oz. of isinglass. PISTACHIO CREAM. Peel Jib. of pis- tachios, and pound them with 1 oz. of preserved cedrat and eight bitter almonds. When reduced to a fine paste put it into six glasses of boiling milk, and cover the infusion ; but before it is quite cold squeeze the milk through a cloth. Mix in a fan 10 ozs. of powder sugar, and a spoonful of spinach essence strained; then add a whole egg, ten yolks,, and a grain of salt; pour the infusion to this a little at a time, stir it well, run it through a sieve, and finish according to rule. See Cream au Bain-marie. PISTACHIO CREAM ICE. Blanch and wash \ lb of pistachios, and when perfectly dry pound them to a fine-paste with a little cream and lemon-peel; put this paste into a skillet, with the yolks of nine eggs and f lb. of powder sugar ; stir it well, and add by degrees a quart of cream; set it on a slow fire to simmer gently, and when sufficiently done cover it with a little spinach green ; then strain it, and frhen cold ice it in the usual way. PISTACHIO CREAM, WHIPPED. Your cream having been whipped as usual [see Cream, Whipped), mix with it 6 ozs. of powder sugar, and two spoonsful of double rose or orange-flower water; dress your cream in a pyramidal form, and having peeled J lb. of pistachios, cut them in pieces lengthwise, and stick them lightly on the sui'face of your pyramid. PISTACHIO ICE. Take three pints of milk, add one pint of cream and ^ lb. of pistachios, which blanch and pound to a fine paste, adding milk to them occasionally to prevent their oil- ing. When well pounded dilute the paste with half the remaining portion of the milk, and squeeze it through a cloth, wringing it as tightly as possible. Set a saucepan on the fire, in which put the cream and the rest of the milk, 1 lb. of sugar, and the rind of a lemon grated; stir these ingredients over the fire till tolerably thick, then add the pistachio milk, give the whole one boil, and strain it. When quite cold cover it with spinach essence, and freeze it as directed. See Ice : To Prepare. PISTACHIO MARCHPANE. Put H lb. of pistachios into a mortar, and pound them, moistened with white of egg, to a very fine paste. In the meantime clarify the same quan- tity of sugar, and boil it to petit houlet; then take the pan from the fire, put in the pistachios, stir them together well, and replace the pan on the hot ashes, continually stirring till the paste is of a proper consistence ; then pour it on a slab well sprinkled with sugar. As soon as it is cold cut it into any forms your fancy may dictate. PISTACHIO PETITS POTS. Have ready ten small moulds ; take a sufiicient quantity of cream to fill them, and put it into a saucepan, with J lb. of powder sugar; give it a boil, and then, having blanched and pounded J lb. of pistachios to a fine paste, pour the cream on it, boil them together once, and let them get cold. Put four yolks and one whole egg into a saucepan, put the cold cream to it, mix them together, and when it has boiled once pour it into the moulds, which place in the bain-marie to set. PISTACHIO TART. Blanch and beat ^Ib. of those nuts, with orange-flower water, a plum or two, cinnamon, ginger, and sugar; beat ten yolks, and thicken them over the fire with a pint of cream or milk; mix the whole together with some grated Naples biscuits ; put it into a sheeted dish, and when baked stick it over with whatever nuts it is made of, cut into fillets. PISTACHIO WAFER. Dilute k lb. of briophe paste with half a glass of Madeira