[ 523 ] VEA VEA and slimy. The neck and breast are first tainted at tlie upper end, in which case the flesh has a dirty yellowish or green appearance, and the sweetbread will feel particularly clammy. The leg, when lately killed, will feel stiff at the joint; but if stale it will be limber, and the flesh discoloured with greenish or yellowish spots. The flesh of a bull calf is of a firmer grain, a livelier red, and the fat more curled than that of a cow calf. In choosing a calf's head be careful in examining the eyes, for if they are sunk into the sockets, or are wrinkled and dull, it is stale; but if, on the contrary, they are full and lively, it is fresh and good. VEAL A LA BECHAMEL. Blanch two throat sweetbreads, let them stew fifteen minutes in some good braise, take them out, and let them cool; then trim them neatly round, cut them in rather thin slices, and put them into some bechamel sauce: a few mushrooms are a very good improvement. Make the whole very hot, and serve. VEAL, BREAST OF: To Dress. You may either roast the joint whole, or take off the two ends for a stew: in either case melted butter must be poured over it. If any be left cut it into pieces, put them into a stewpan with some broth or water, and add thereto a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade or two of mace, some pepper, and an anchovy. Stew the meat till it is tender, and thicken with butter, flour, and a little catsup. Instead of roasting the breast you may stew it, after cutting off' the two ends; but the sweetbread should be served whole, either stewed or parboiled, covered with crumbs, herbs, pepper, and salt, and browned in a Dutch oven. Some mushrooms, truffles, and morels will be an agreeable accompaniment to the breast of veal. VEAL, BREAST OF : To Roll. Having boned the breast, and taken off" the thick skin and gristle, beat the meat with a rolling-pin; season with herbs chopped finely, salt, pepper, and mace ; cover the veal with some slices of ham, or roll it with two or three calves' tongues which have been boiled and skinned; bind the whole with a cloth, and fasten it with tape ; let it simmer until tender, and then lay it under a weight till quite cold. You may put in or round the veal either pig or calf's feet boned; also the yolks of eggs, beet-root grated ham, and chopped parsley. VEAL, BREAST OF (Collaeed). Bone a breast of veal, and beat it; rub it over with yolk of egg, and strew over a little beaten mace, nutmeg, pepper, salt, a large handful of parsley chopped small, a few sprigs of sweet majoram, a little lemon-peel shred fine, and an anchovy pounded and mixed with a few bread crumbs. Roll it up tightly, bind it with tape, and wrap it in a cloth; let it boil two hours and a half in salt and water, then take it out, hang up one end to drain, and put it into the following pickle : a pint of salt and water, and half a pint of vinegar. VEAL, BREAST OF (Glace). Cut the breast as square as possible, bone it Avithin two inches of the gristle, tie down the meat so that the joint may look very plump, and cut the soft bones beyond the gristle. Put the breast into a lai'ge saucepan, with three or four carrots, as many onions, two bay leaves, two cloves, and a ladleful of stock ; cover the veal with rashers of bacon and a buttei'ed paper; set it on a large fire to make it boil, and tiien lessen it; put some fire on the saucepan lid, and so leave it. When about three parts done take out the carrots, &c., let the liquor fall to a glaze, and when quite done turn the meat over, that the upper part may take the glaze also, and then dish the joint; put two ladlesful of Espagnole and a spoonful of stock into a sauce- pan, detach the glaze from it over the fire, and pour the sauce over the veal. Two hours and a half are required to dress a breast of veal in this manner. VEAL, BREAST OF (Marinated). Take a breast of veal, cut it into pieces, and let them boil in some stock till three parts done; then take them out, and marinate them for about a quarter of an hour with two spoonsful of vinegar, a little of the stock the meat was boiled in, some pepper and salt, two cloves of garlic, four spices, sliced onions, thyme, and a bay leaf; drain it, and fry it of a good colour with parsley. VEAL, BREAST OF (Porcupine of). Bone a large breast of veal, and rub it over with two yolks of eggs ; then spread the meat on a board, and lay over it some thin slices of bacon, a handful of parsley shred fine, five eggs boiled hard and chopped small, a little lemon- peel cut fine, the crumb of a penny loaf soaked in cream, and season the whole with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Roll up the veal, and skewer it tightly; then cut some fat bacon, the lean of boiled ham, and some pickled cucumbers, and with this lard the veal in rows, according to the order last mentioned; put the veal into an earthen pot with a pint of water, cover it closely, and set it in a slow oven for two hours. When done skim off the fat, and strain the gravy into a stewpan, with the addition of a glass of white wine, a little lemon pickle, caper liquor, and a spoonful of mushroom catsup; thicken with butter rolled in flour, lay the veal in a dish, and pour the sauce over it. Make a forcemeat thus :—The crumb of a penny loaf, i lb. of beef suet cut fine,- the yolks of four eggs, and some chopped oysters;