[ 109 ] KKE LAO a cool cellar will remain good for three or four months. KREOSOTE. See Creosote. KRINGLES. Beat well the yolks of eight and the whites of two eggs, and mix with 4 ozs. of butter just warmed. With this knead 1 lb. of flour and 4 ozs. of sugar to a paste ; roll into thick biscuits; prick them, and bake on tin plates. L. LABELLING. Every key should have a white leather or a parchment label attached ; and all papers and linen should be arranged in labelled partitions, so as to be easily referred to. A writer, who understood what he wrote about, makes the following remarks :— First, as regards papers. These, as soon as delivered, are thrown into a drawer appropriated for their reception, which is marked " to label." Once or twice a month, or whenever a leisure hour occurs, they are folded, indorsed on the back, and then transferred to another (adjoin- ing) drawer, marked " to sort." When a sufficient quantity is accumulated the next process is to arrange them in separate bundles of a convenient size, and to enter their title, number, and position in a book divided into compartments of the alphabet; in fact, a general index. The first column on the left hand in this index-book denotes the letter which distinguishes the bundle, such as A or AC, and which distinguishing mark is pasted on the outer end of the wrapper which incloses it; the second column denotes the number of the particular paper; next comes the title of the particular document; and finally, in the last column, the position in which the bundle is stowed is described; all the entries, except the title, being in pencil, so as to afford facility of removal. It is by no means necessary to place the letters or papers having reference to each other in the same parcel, for this can be done at some future opportunity, such as a wet or leisure day. Our plan is to go on making new bundles, without reference to such arrangement, and when the collection in our second drawer assumes the appearance of being sufficient to form a parcel of convenient bulk, we proceed to mark and tie them up as follows :—Supposing the last bundle disposed of, and stowed in the position where it is intended to remain, to have been labelled AC, we now commence with AD, and taking the first letter or other paper that comes to hand, which we find to be indorsed " Painting outside, particulars of Mr. Arm- strong's estimate for 1841," we mark that paper with a pencil in the corner AD 1, and, turning to the letter P in the index-book, make the following entry, beginning at the left-hand column:—AD 1, "Painting, &c."—■ Second shelf—^bookcase^—^back parlour. If we have any doubt about the distinctness of the indorsement we enter it also in the letter A, as, "Armstrong, Mr., estimate for outside paint- ing." Proceeding thus to the next paper, which is marked No. 2, and so on, until the parcel attains a convenient size, we tie it up neatly in brown paper, and paste or wafer on the end its label AD, then stomng it in its assigned place with the label exhibited. By this arrangement any required document can be found immediately, and a reference to the index will, moreover, remove uncertainty as to whether we have it or not; for it frequently occurs that considerable time and trouble are expended in searching for papers that have been destroyed. It is necessary to observe that, whenever a paper is abstracted from its parcel, a note must be made of the circumstance in a blank space left for this purpose to the right hand in the index-book. The same arrangement is adopted for books, linen, glass, china, and, in fact, for every article not in constant use, and its utility is remarkably apparent when applied to a garden.—{Magazine of Domestic Economy.) LAC is a resinous secretion from an East Indian insect. Coccus lacca, and has received vai'ious names, according to the different states in which it is obtained. The stick-lac is the wax adhering to the smaller branches of the tree, and which is unprepared. This is first separated from the twigs to which it is attached, and after being grossly powdered, and divested of its colour by digesting it in certain liquors, is called seed-lac. When the stick-lac is melted over a moderate fire, then freed from its im- purities, and formed into cakes, it is denomi- nated lump-lac. The last species is termed shellac, and is prepared by liquefying, strain- ing, and reducing tlie cells into thin transparent plates, in a manner peculiar to the natives of India. Lac is applied to various purposes of orna- ment and utility. Considerable quantities are used in the making of sealing-wax, in japan- ning, for varnish, and in painting. It also imparts a fine red colour to silk and cotton, when these have previously been immersed in a weak decoction of the bark known among dyers by the name of load. Lac is likewise of service as a medicine, for which purpose the stick-lac is in great esteem on the continent, especially for relaxed and spongy gums, arising from cold, or from a scor- butic habit. With this intention it is either boiled in water, with the addition of a little