HAR [ 26 ] HAR combs, fat livers, forcemeat balls, and artichoke bottoms. A little lemou juice may be added. Serve tbe hare with this sauce. HARE, ROASTED. When the hare is trussed and stuffed cover it with thin slices of bacon, tie them on, and baste with dripping. Some persons prefer stale beer. Likewise add an anchovy, a glass of red wine, and an egg to the stuffing. [Serve the hare with gravy and melted butter. HARE EN SALMIS. Take a cold roasted hare, and chop it into small pieces ; cut a large onion into dice, and fry it of a good colour in butter, with a bay leaf; add about two spoons- ful of flour, and when it is well mixed with the butter put in a quart of gravy, set it on the fire, and keep stirring till it boils; then put in the hare, and set the saucepan by the side of the fire to simmer for another half an hour. When done squeeze in the juice of a lemon and a small quantity of Cayenne, and serve it. HARE AU SANG. Skin and parboil a hare, take off the skin, cut off" all the meat, and mince it very small ; cut some pork leaf into dice, and slice some onions; mix these together, and toss them up over the fire. When the leaf begins to melt pour on it a pint of pig, lamb, or calf's blood; put in the minced hare, and set this on the fire. When the whole is of a tolerable consistence place two cauls open on the table, laya large slice of bacon on them, jnit in the hare, &c., cover it with another large slice of bacon, gather up the cauls, and form the mass as nearly as possible to the resemblance of a hare; tie it up and bake it. When done clear away the fat, and serve it. HARE, SAUCE FOR (1). Take a quarter of a pint of claret or port wine, the same quantity of plain mutton gravy, and a table-spoonful of currant jelly; boil up, and send it to table. HARE, SAUCE FOR (2) Put some cur- rant jelly into a stewpan, and when it is melted pour it into a sauce boat. Some persons prefer sending it to table without melting it. H ARE SOUP (1). Take an old hare, cut it in pieces, and put thereto 1| lb. of lean beef, two or three shank bones of mutton, a slice of lean bacon or ham, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs, over which pour two quarts of boiling water. Cover the jug into which these are put with bladder and paper, and set it in a kettle of water ; simmer till the hare is stewed to pieces, strain off the liquor, and give it one boil with an anchovy cut small, adding a spoonful of soy, a little Cayenne, salt, and a few forcemeat balls fried brown. It should be served in the tureen- HARE SOUP (2). Take a large hare, cut it in pieces, and put them into an earthen vessel, with three blades of mace, two large onions, a little salt, a red herring, six large morels, a pint of port wine, and three quarts of water; bake the whole three hours in a quick oven, and then strain oif the liquor into a stew- pan. Previously to this boil 4ozs. of French barley, and put it into the liquor; scald the liver, and rub it through a cullender with a wooden spoon; put it into the soup, and set it over the fire; keep it stirring till it is about to boil, and then take it off immediately: put some crisped bread into the tureen, and pour the soup into it. HARE SOUP (3). Wash a large hare, cut it in pieces, laying aside two or three of the choicest parts of the back, and the fleshy joint of the legs; put the remainder into a kettle, with a knuckleof veal,a buncliof sweet herbs, some salt, and five quarts of water. Stew these for three or four hours, and then strain off the gravy ; put it into a pan with the pieces of the hare which were left out, and stew gently till they are done; thicken with flour and butter, and some force- meat balls, adding, before serving up, half a pint of port or Madeira wine. The pieces of the hare may be fried just brown in butter before they are put into the soup to stew. A large old rabbit may be substituted very well instead of a hare. HAEE A LA ST. DENIS. Having skinned and otherwise prepared the hare, cut off" tbe liead, season some lardons to lard the loins and legs, and lay it for two or three days in a pau witb salt, pepper, parsley, thyme, bay leaves, scallions, and two onious cut in slices. When ready for dressing take the liver, mince it with an equal quantity of bacon, and add salt, pepper, and a little pbunded spice. To this put twice as much quenelle farce; mix them together with the yolks of three eggs, stuff" the body of the hare with it, and sew up the skin. Lay slices of bacon in a braising-pan, place the hai-e on them, and cover with bacon; put round it some slices of veal, two carrots cut in slices, three onions, a bunch of parsley and scallions, thyme, bay leaves, cloves, a little salt, and a bottle of white wine ; simmer these for two houi-s, or more, according to the age of the hare. When done drain and glaze it; then reduce the liquor to a jelly, and add to it two ladlesful of Es- pagnole. If it should be too highly seasoned put to it 1 oz. of butter and a little lemon juice; pour this sauce into a dish, and serve the hare on it. HARE, STEWED. Having skinned the hare, divide it just below the ribs, cut the fore part into pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with a little mace, an onion stuck with cloves, pepper- corns, an anchovy, and a bunch of sweet herbs; add sufficient water to cover them, and let them stew gently. In the meanwliile make a good