POI POI £ 345 ] Substances. Symptoms. Remedies. Ireitating Ve- .GETABLE PoiSONS : monkshood, mea- dow saffron, ipeca- cuanha, hellebore, bear's foot, savin, &c. Narcotics: opi- um, henbane, hem- lock, nightshade, &c. Acrid Nabco- Tics: mushrooms ; nux vomica, St. Ignatius's bean, the upas, Cocculus Indicus, &c. Poisonous Fish : old wife, lobster, crab, dolphin, con- ger eel, muscle, &c. Poisonous Ser- pents : the viper, or adder, rattle- snake, &c, Spanish Flies. Venomous In- sects : tarantula, scorpion, hornet, wasp, oee, gnat, &c. Acrid taste; excessive heat; violent vomitings ; purging; great pain in the stomach and bowels. Ex- ternally applied, many of them produce inflammation, blisters, pustules. Stupor, desire to vomit, heaviness in the head, di- lated pupil of the eye, deli- rium, speedy death. Nausea, heat, pain in the stomach and bowels, vomit- ing, purging, thirst, convul- sions, cold sweats, death. None of these inflame the part they touch. Introduced into the stomach, or applied to wounds, they are rapidly absorbed, producing gene- rally rigidity, convulsions, and death. In an hour or two, or sooner, after some fish have been eaten, more especially if stale, weight at the sto- mach, sickness, giddiness, thirst, &c., come on; in some cases death. A sharp pain in the wounded part, soon extend- ing over the body; great swelling, first hard and pale, then reddish; faint- ings, vomiting, convulsions; inflammation, often exten- sive suppuration, gangrene, and death. Nauseous odour of the breath; burning heat in the throat and stomach; vomit- ing, often bloody; bloody stools; painful priapism, heat in the bladder, con- vulsions, delirium, death. In general only a slight degree of pain and swell- ing ; sometimes sickness and fever. If vomiting be produced by the poison, large draughts of warm water or thin gruel to render it easier. If insensibility be present, white vitriol or other active emetic, after the operation of which a brisk purgative, then strong infusion of coffee, or vinegar diluted with water. Four or five grains of emetic tartar in a glass of water. If this does not succeed, 4 grains of blue vitriol as an emetic. Do not give large quantities of water. After the poison has been ejected give vinegar, lemon juice, or cream of tartar, and strong coffee. Three grains of emetic tartar in a glass of water: in fifteen minutes the dose to be repeated. After vomiting, frequent doses of Glauber's or Epsom salts, and stimulating clysters, The emetic as under mushroom. Lungs to be inflated. Two ounces of water, 1 drachm of ether, 2 drachms of oil of turpen- tine, and ^ oz. of sugar mixed together, two spoonsful of which to be taken every ten minutes. An emetic; vomiting to be excited by tickling the throat with the finger, and by draughts of warm water. After vomiting, an active purgative. Afterwards vinegar and water, or water sweetened with sugar, and an addition of ether. After the evacuations, laudanum. A moderately tight ligature to be applied above the bite, and the wound left to bleed, after being washed with warm water. The actual cautery, lunar caustic, or butter of antimony to be applied; then lint dipped in equal parts of olive oil and spirit of hartshorn. Ligature to be removed if the inflammation be considerable, Warm diluting drinks, with small doses of am- monia or hartshorn, to cause perspiration. The patient should be well covered in bed, drinking occasionally warm wine. If gangrene threaten, wine and bark must be given freely. Vomiting freely excited by sweet oil, sugar and water, milk, or linseed tea; emollient clysters. Camphor dissolved in oil may be, rubbed over the belly and thighs. Hartshorn and oil, salt and water: a few drops of hartshorn may be taken internally in a glass of water. The sting may, in general, be removed by making a strong pressure over it with the barrel of a small watch key.