PLE PLE [ 340 J Epsom, Rochelle, and tlie saline aperient waters— so frequeriily prescribed to obviate costiveness in a plethoric habit predisposed to apoplexy, by reducing the temperature of the abdomen, have often a very pernicious effect. The ob- jections to this class of aperient medicines apply with greater force to cases of costiveness in plethoric habits predisposed to apoplexy than any other species of costiveness. The shower-bath, or the application of cold water to the head every morning by means of a napkin, the asarabacca snuff (a pinch once a day), to increase the secretion from the nostrils, flannel socks to the feet, exercise (walking), and abstemious diet are necessary auxiliaries ; and if attended with symptoms of an impending fit, copious abstraction of blood from a vein. PLEURISY. Sijmptoms. This, like most other fevers, generally begins with chilliness and shivering, which are followed by heat, thirst, and restlessness. To these succeeds a violent pricking pain in one of the sides among the I'ibs. Sometimes the pain extends towards the back- bone, sometimes towards the fore part of the breast, and at other times towards the shoulder- blades. The pain is generally most violent when the patient draws his breath. The pulse in this disease is commonly quick and hard ; the urine high-coloured ; and, if blood be let, it is covered with a tough crust or buffy coat. The patient's spittle is at first thin, but afterwards it becomes grosser, and is often streaked with blood. Diet. Nature generally endeavours to carry off this disease by a critical discharge of blood from some part of the body, by expectoration, sweat, loose stools, thick urine, or the like. We ought, therefore, to second her intentions by lessening the force of the circulation, relaxing the vessels, diluting the humours, and promoting expectoration. For these purposes the diet ought to be cool, slender, and diluting. The patient must avoid all food that is viscid, hard of digestion, or that affords much nourishment, as flesh, butter, cheese, eggs, milk, and also everything that is of a heating nature. His drink may be whey, or an infusion of pectoral and balsamic vegetables. Barley water, with a little honey or jelly of currants mixed with it, is likewise a very proper drink in this disease. It is made by boiling 1 oz. of pearl barley in three English pints of water to two, which- must afterwards be strained. This and other diluting liquors are not to be di unk in large quantities at a time ; but the liatient ought to keep continually sipping them, so as to render his mouth and throat always moist. All his food and drink should be taken a little warm. The patient should be kept quiet, cool, and every way easy. His feet and hands ought daily to be bathed in luliewarm water, and he may sometimes sit up in bed for a short space, in order to relieve his head. Treatment. Almost every person knows, when a fever is attended with a violent pain of the side and a quick hard pulse, that bleeding is necessaiy. When these symptoms come on, the sooner this operation is performed the better; and the quantity at first must be pretty large, provided the patient be able to bear it. A large quantity of blood let at once in the beginning of a pleurisy has a much better effect than repeated small bleedings. A man may lose 12ozs. or 14ozs. of blood as soon as it is certainly known that he is seized with a pleurisy. For a younger person, or one of a delicate constitution, the quantity must be less. If, after the first bleeding, the pain with the other violent symptoms should still continue, it will be necessary, at the distance of twelve or eighteen hours, to take 8 ozs or 9 ozs. more. If the symptoms do not then abate, and the blood shows a strong buffy coat, a third or even a fourth bleeding may be requisite. If the pain of the side abate, the pulse become softer, or the patient begin to spit freely, bleeding ought not to be repeated. This operation is seldom necessary after the third or fourth day of the fever, and ought not then to be perfoi'med unless in the most urgent circumstances. The blood may be many ways attenuated without bleeding. There are likewise many things that may be done to ease the pain of the side without this operation, as fomenting, blistering, &c. Fomentations may be made by boiling a handful of flowers of elder, camomile, and common mallows, or any other soft vege- tables, in a proper quantity of water. The herbs may be either put into a flannel bag, and applied warm to the side, or flannels may be dipped in the decoction, afterwards wrung out, and applied to the part affected with as much warmth as the patient can easily bear. As the clothes grow cool they must be changed, and great care taken that the patient do not catch cold. A bladder may be filled with warm milk and water, and applied to the side, if the above method of fomenting be found inconvenient. Fomentations not only ease the pain, but relax the vessels, and prevent the stagnation of the blood and other humours. The side may like- wise be frequently rubbed with a little of the volatile liniment. Topical bleeding has often a very good effect in this disease. It may either be performed by applying a number of leeches to the part affected, or by cupping, which is both a more certain and expeditious method than the other.