TEA [ 484 ] TEA in granules hy a sort of thin gruel made from the husks of rice being sprinkled upon it, and then stirred with rods till it acquires the desired form. The black variety of this is coloured ■with plumbago, and the green with the mixtui'e employed in heightening the colour of the green teas. It is a notorious fact that many of the green teas which are imported to this country and to the United States ai'e coloured expressly to suit the tastes of the people of these two countries. A strange infatuation exists among many to use only those teas which are dyed in pre- ference to those of a natui'al green colour. The Chinese never use these dyed teas themselves, and it is only those of inferior quality that are subjected to the operation. When Mr. Fortune was in China he took some pains to ascertain the process by which the dyeing was performed. He says the operator first takes a portion of indigo, and reduces it to powder in a mortar; then a quantity of gypsum wliich has been subjected to calcination, and is well known by the name of plaster of Paris, is also reduced to powder, and a mixture in the proportion of four parts gypsum and three parts indigo forms the colouring compound. When the leaves are undergoing the process of roasting in the iron ]mn this colouring mixture is added, in the proportion of upwards of 1 oz. to 14^ lbs. of leaves, and stirred among the leaves so that they may all be equally dyed. At this rate, Mr. Fortune observes, the green tea drinkers of Great Britain and the United States, for every 100 lbs. of tea consumed, actually swallow more than ^ lb. of gypsum and indigo; and what is worse, there is reason to believe that Prussian blue is sometimes used instead. Tea is astringent and gently excitant, and in its finer varieties exerts an influence on the nervous system, producing feelings of comfort and exhilaration when taken in moderation; but when taken in excess for a long continuance it will, in some constitutions, induce nervous and dyspeptic symptoms, the necessary con- sequences of over-excitement of the brain and stomach. Tea may be given medicinally in diarrhoea, and a strong infusion has been known to remove nervous headaches. Green tea is much more injurious than black, and should be avoided by all dyspeptics, and those whose nervous system is peculiarly excitable. This arises from the mode of preparation. Black tea undergoes a chemical change during the fermentation, which takes place before it is roasted; but the green is taken directly after being picked, and dried in its natural state, and thus retains more of the natural narcotic properties of the plant unchanged than the black : it also contains a larger quantity of the essential oil, which is considered highly poison- ous, and a greater quantity of tannin. In the making of tea for morning and evening consumption, in the first place, it is requisite that your teapot be a metal one, and that it be bright and shining. You may think this of no consequence ; but if you try a china or stone- ware pot experimentally you will lose about one-fourth of your tea, which would be saved by a metal one. Black ware is the worst of all, and a great waster of tea. Having got your metal pot, then put in a spoonful of tea for each person, and pour over it one cupful of boil- ing water for every spoonful. Let this stand to infuse not less than twenty minutes, when it will be ready in the form of a strong, rich- flavoured tincture. The flavouring substance found to agree best with the flavour of tea is the essence of bergamot, by the proper management of which you may produce from the cheapest teas the finest-flavoured bloom, hyson, gunpowder, and cowslip. There ai'e two ways of managing the bergamot. Purchase at the perfumer's some of the perfumed pieces of wood which they call bergamot fruit. Keep one such piece in your canister, and it will flavour the tea in the same way as a tonquin bean flavours snuff. If the canister be a small one the flavour perhaps would be too strong. In that case you may chip the bergamot fruit in pieces, and put only a little bit among your tea. Or, procure a small phial of the essence of bergamot, take some of the smallest of your tea, and add to it a few drops of the essence till you form a sort of paste, which is to be carefully mixed with the whole tea, in proportion to its quantity and the degree of flavour you like best. A few trials will enable you to hit the proportions better than any directions which we can give, and if you make the flavour too strong you have always an easy remedy, namely, by adding more unflavoured tea. When it is thus improved it has often been sold at I8s. and 21s. a pound. Cowslip tea has been as high as S'Js. The water used should be soft naturally. Hard water may be softened by putting into the teapot as much of the bicarbonate of potash or of soda as will lie on the point of a pen- knife ; but it makes the tea flat. TEA, CREAM. Boil 2 drachms or more of good green tea in a quart of milk ; in a few minutes strain it; add thi-ee yolks of eggs well beaten, and J lb. of powder sugar ; set it on the fire, reduce it to half, and then strain it again. When cold serve it. TEA, ICED. Take 2 drachms of the best tea, tie it in a bit of muslin, and add two quarts of cream. When the infusion is sufficiently