LIN [ 149 ] LIM vessel for one hour, when it is poured off and preserved in close bottles. Lime water was formerly in great repute as a solvent of the stone, and a remedy in scrofulous affections. It has likewise been used both externally and internally for cutaneous eruptions, though we by no means approve of its indiscriminate use, which may be attended with dangerous effects. On account of its astringent properties this pre- paration has also been successfully prescribed in cases of diabetes, or immoderate flow of urine, and other disorders proceeding from laxity or weakness of the solids. At present it is chiefly used for washing foul or ill-con- ditioned ulcers. Notwithstanding these useful qualities of lime, it is, if accidentally swallowed or inhaled in any quantity, one of the most fatal poisons. Hence persons employed in lime works become subject to blood-spitting, asthma, painful con- stipations of the bowels, and consumption, their countenance turns* unnaturally pale, and after languishing for years these unhappy victims die in a sleepless state. Bread adul- terated with lime absorbs all those juices of the stomach which ought to promote digestion, obstructs the alimentary canal, occasions almost constant thirst, and at length produces the most violent colics, fevers, and death. As soon, therefore, as it may be discovered that a person has taken into the stomach either lime or gypsum, the first step will be to ad- minister an emetic, consisting of H oz. or 3 ozs. of vinegar of squills, and 20 or 30 grains of ipecacuanha in powder. Large draughts of sour whey should next be given to facilitate the operation of the medicine. In order to counter- act the causticity of lime in the stomach and intestines it will be advisable to drink alter- nately a mixture of vinegar and water, lemonade, or similar acidulated beverage for one day; and, on the other, to make use of mucilaginous decoctions, such as barley or rice water, gruel, fat broths, oils, or sweet whey, in which a small quantity of white soap has been dis- solved ; to eat salads with a large proportion of oil and vinegar, and ripe subacid fruit. To complete the cure it will perhaps be requisite to administer, according to circumstances, emollient or laxative clysters. LIME [Citrus limetta). The lime is not much cultivated in Europe, but its fruit is a great favourite in the West Indies, where it is preserved green, making a most delicious sweet- meat. Limes grow in abundance in Egypt, where the juice is employed in making sherbet, and is also used as vinegar. The tree is smaller and more shrubby than that which bears the lemon, and the fruit, likewise, is not so large as the lemon, and more round in form. LIME TREE, or Linden. The wood is soft, light, and smooth, close grained, and nc easily subject to be infested by the worm i kept in dry places. It is used for makinj, leather-cutters' boards, for carved work, am likewise for turnery-ware. The leaves may b« dried and preserved as winter fodder, bein^' eagerly eaten by sheep and goats. Cows alst- relish them in the autumn, but their milk thus, acquires a very unpleasant taste. Excellent ropes are made of the inner bark on the con- tinent, and which do not soil the linen sus- pended on them for drying. From the same substance the Russians manufacture mats, shoes, and other rustic garments. Linden cordage is so remarkably strong and elastic that in this respect it is superior to iron chains. The wood of the lime tree, though affording an indifferent fuel, may be converted into ex- cellent charcoal for drawing, and for the manu- facture of gunpowder. From the external bai-k Ruger prepared a fine rose-coloured lake. Both the bark and leaves afford materials for a coarse, but smooth brown paper, of a red- dish cast; and that manufactured of the former is peculiarly well calculated for drawings. The seeds yield on expression a sweet and agree- able oil, similar to that which is found in ripe cocoa-nuts, and is of equal service as an in- gredient in chocolate. LIMES : To Pickle. Take new limes, and pickle them when large. Have ready vinegar, with what spice you please ; throw the limes in, and stop the bottle closely. LINEN. {See Clear Starching and Ladn dry-Maid.) The care of the linen, says Mrs. Parkes, in her " Domestic Duties," devolves on the housekeeper generally ; but in small fami- lies the housemaids have the care of it. Be- fore it is sent to be washed it should be ex- amined, and if any part require to be repaired it should be kept back. The housemaid should keep an account of the number of the articles that are sent to the laundry, and count them over on their return, to see that all are right and well aired, and should replace them in the linen press. In putting by the fresh-washed linen care should be taken to place it so that the whole stock may come into use in regular succession, by placing it, for instance, under the rest of the linen, or at the back of the press. If the linen be put damp into the linen closet it will be mildewed, and stains produced which cannot easily be removed. In choosing linen or cambric examine whether the threads are even and close r a raw linen, with uneven threads, does not promise to wear well. Fine linens answer better than the coarse ones, provided they are not unsuitable for the