[ 2-19 ] NER NER Moderate warmth will be required. Pure air sliould be admitted into the apartment. The person afflicted must avoid unnecessary motion. The slightest tendency toward sleep is to be encouraged. The hands and face, as means of cleanliness, are to be washed with cold water. Such parts as feel hot without perspiration may occasionally be made gradually cool. During the more urgent symptoms light should be partially excluded. Noise is also to be guarded against, as well as those objects which too strongly influence the other organs of sense, The mind is as much a_ possible to be sup- ported. A vomit should be given on the accession of the disease. Febrifuge cordials, volatiles, cor- roborants, such as Peruvian bark, and the nitric acid diluted to a mild acidity, may be also taken. Should there be profuse discharge by stool opiates may be administered. A clyster of the emollient kind, and blisters suitably applied, are proper in urgent cases. NERVOUS HEADACHE is sometimes attended with symptoms so strongly indicative ot compression of the brain, from over-distention of blood-vessels, that it is often a very nice point to determine whether the complaint be purely nervous, or whether the brain is not dis- ordered by a plethoric state of its blood-vessels. Giddiness, ringing in the ears, impei-fect vision, confusion of mind, a sense of heaviness, nausea, and vomiting, are not only the conse- quences of compression of the brain from over- distention of blood-vessels, but also of depletion. They precede the apoplectic fit from plethora, and also the fainting fit from the loss of blood. In nervous headache the pupils of the eyes are generally contracted, and m tbe headache from plethora they are generally much dilated, often one more than the other ; but in cases of nervous lieadache, when the cerebral system is in a state of debility, the pupils are also dilated. The pulse in the nervous headache is languid and small, and the extremities cold; but in the plethoric headache it is generally full, and the extremities warm It, however, the brain be much compressed by the over-distended vessels, the pulse will be languid, and the skin cool. The nervous headache may be distinguished from the plethoric by placing the head or body in a position which favours the afflux of blood to the brain, or checks its return from the brain. If in a horizontal position, or during stooping, or looking upwards or backwards when in an erect position, the giddiness or pulsation in the head be increased, the inference is, the blood- vessels of the head are overloaded, and the brain disturbed by compression or increased vascular action; but if they produce no aggrava- tion of the leading symptoms, and especially if they afford relief, there can be no doubt of the complaint being nervous, and that the state of the blood-vessels has little to do with it. Some practitioners have asserted that the nervous headache may be distinguished from the plethoric by a stimulus, as brandy or wine applied to the stomach ; but when the plethoric state is merely local, that is, not dependent on general plethora, a cordial or stimulant applied to the stomach, by increasing the circulation in the bowels, will produce a diversion in favour of the overloaded brain A bandage applied round the head ovei the temples affords great relief in the nervous headache, but in the plethoric produces con- fusion. Nervous subjects, especially those who are of a gouty habit, are very liable to attacks of cough, termed nervous cough, on unfavourable changes in the atmosphere, from irritation at the top of the windpipe, or in the part termed the larynx; and, from the continued tickling sensa- tion at the upper part of the windpipe, it is often very distressing. The irritation soon gives way to the following mixture :—Take of compound spirit of sulphuric ether 3 drachms; tincture of colchicum seeds, 2 drachms; camphorated mixture, 4 ozs. Mix. One or two table-spoons- ful to be taken three times a day. The inhala- tion of the vapour of ether or of tar also affords immediate relief. To keep the stomach in a quiet state nervous subjects should be very particular in the choice of articles of diet. The peculiarities of the nervous habit are so very opposite, that the best advice a medical man can give to a nervous in- valid is to avoid those articles which evidently disagree with the stomach, and not to oppress or over-stimulate it with too great a quantity of those which do agree. So far as a general rule can be laid down we should say, avoid all green vegetables in a raw state (as celery, water- cresses, lettuce, onions, cucumbers, radishes, melons, &c.), pickles, cheese, pastry, nuts, wal- nuts, sweetmeats, soups, broths, new potatoes, sweet ale, green tea, coffee, and all burnt articles, as English coffee, crust of bread, and outside of foasted meat. The best article for breakfast is the sassafras cocoa, with sugar and milk, brown bread (not new), or sea biscuits with a Mttle butter. The aromatic property of this cocoa promotes digestion, and prevents the accumulation of flatus in the stomach and intestines, a property which neither tea, common cocoa, chocolate, nor coffee possesses. For dinner the interior of roasted or boiled mutton, beef, boiled or roasted fowl, lamb, partridge, hare, &c., with mashed potatoes, asparagus, green peas, or cabbage, with pepper ; and finish with an anchovy instead of cheese. With respect to beverage he should take that which he finds to promote digestion,