[ 387 ] RAT RAS whipped cream, and lay it carefully in a china howl or in glasses. In the former garnish it with a string of I'ipe I'aspberi'ies. RASPBERRY DUMPLINGS. Take some good puff paste, roll it out, and spi'ead rasp- berry jam over it; roll it up, and hoil it rather more than an hour; cut it into five slices, pour melted butter into the dish, grate sugar round, and serve. RASPBERRY FRITTERS. Grate two Naples biscuits or the crumb of a French roll, and put to either a pint of boiling cream. When this is cold add to it the yolks of four eggs well beaten ; beat all well together with some rasp- berry juice ; drop this in very small quantities into a pan of boiling lard, and stick the fritters with blanched almonds sliced. RASPBERRY ICE. Press the juice from as many raspberries as will yield H lb., put it into a glazed pan, and leave it for four days ; then carefully raise the skin that has fallen on top of it, pour off the juice into another vessel, clarify 1^ lb. of sugar with a pint and a half of water, add the juice, and give them half a dozen boils. If not sufficiently red put in a root of alkanet, which leave in till o'f the proper colour. Strain the preparation through a sieve. When cold put it into the sarbotiere and freeze it. See IcK : To Prepare. RASPBERRY JAM. Mash the fruit, which must be perfectly ripe and dry; then strew over it an equal weight of lump sugar, and half as much of the juice of white currants; boil the whole half an hour over a clear fire, skim it well, and put it into pots or glasses, tied over with paper dipped in brandy. The sooner the fruit is used after gathering the better. RASPBERRY JELLY. Take two-thirds of raspberries and one-third of red currants ; pick them, pi'ess the juice through a sieve into a pan, cover, and place it in a cellar or any other cpol place for three days; at the end of that time raise the thick skin formed at the top, and pour the juice into another vessel; weigh it, put it with half the quantity of sugar into a pre- serving-pan, and set it on the fire. A great deal of scum will rise at first, which must all be taken off. Leave it on the fire for an hour, and then pour a few drops on a cold plate : if it cools of the proper consistence for jellies take it from the fire, and whilst hot pour it into pots. Let the jelly be quite cold before the pots are covered. RASPBERRY POSTILLA. This is a pre- paration much in request among the Russians. Put some raspberries into an earthen pan, and set it in a moderately heated oven all night. Next day mash the fruit, press it through a sieve, add thereto about one-fourth of its weight of honey, and set it in the oven for another night. RASPBERRY TART WITH CREAM. Line a patty pan with thin puff paste, lay in some raspberries, and strew some very finely sifted sugar over them; cover them with puff paste, and bake. When done cut the t%,rt open, and put in half a pint of cream, in which have been previously beaten the yolks of two or three eggs, and sweetened with a little sugar. When this is added to the tart return it to the oven for five or six minutes. RASPBERRY VINEGAR. Put a quart of raspberries into a quart of the best vinegar, and let them stand a week, stirring them occa- sionally ; then add 1 lb. of loaf sugar, boil slowly twenty minutes, strain, and bottle it. RASPBERRY WINE. Pound the fruit, and strain it through a cloth; then boil as much water as you have of juice, and when cold pour it on the dry fruit, letting it stand five hours, after which strain it again, and mix it with the rest. To every gallon of this liquor add 2^ lbs. of sugar, let it stand in an earthen vessel closely covered for a week, and then tun it into a clean cask; bung it well, and when fine bottle it off. Another way for raspberries, strawberries, or cherries is this :—Bruise the fruit, put it into a linen bag, and press the juice out into one cask ; then drain off the fine liquor into another, and bung it closely for forty-eight hours. In three months it may be bottled. RASPBERRIES, RATAFIA OF. Take three pints of raspberry juice and half a pint of cherry juice; dissolve in these l^lb. of fine sugar, and let it stand some time; then add three quarts of the best brandy, strain it, and when quite clear bottle it. Be careful to keep it well corked. RAT AND MICE POISONS. We extract the following from Beasley's " Diuggists Re- ceipt Book." Such as contain arsenic are placed first, and afterwards several compounds which have been introduced as substitutes for that mineral, which has proved so destructive of human life. If arsenic must be employed, it should be sold mixed with substances which would prevent its being taken by mistake, or insure detection if designedly administered. 1. For Barn Floors. Mix a pint of good flour with as much yellow arsenic as will lie on a shilling; put this in a small heap on the floor, and over this put another pint of good flour unmixed. Draw a track up to the heap with a feather dipped in oil of aniseed and oil of caraway, and sprinkle this over with a little flour. The following is an old rat-catcher's re- ceipt for oils to attract rats :—Two drachms of oil of aniseed, 2 drops of nitrous acid, and 8