[ 272 J OPI OPI damp and sticky, indicating the presence of some deliquescent substance; and, on analysis, it is found to contain only six or seven per cent, of morphia. Indian opium is of two kinds, that produced in Bahar and Benares being called Bengal Patna opium, and that of the interior provinces Malu-a opium. The former is in the shape of round balls, weighing 3^ lbs., and enveloped with a coat, half an inch thick, of poppy leaves and petals. It is either a very inferior variety to Turkey opium, or is very extensively adulterated, as the greatest amount of morphia which has hitherto been extracted from it does not exceed five per cent. The belief is that its inferiority arises from the mode of preparation : the juice being kept some time after collection, fermentation ensues before it is made. But there is a variety made in Bahar, and designated garden Patna opium, which Dr. Christison says is little inferior to Turkey opium in the proportion of morphia which it contains, arising from the juice not having undergone fermentation. It is in the form of cakes, three or four inches square, and about half an inch thick, which are packed in cases, with a layer of mica between them. These cakes are without any wrapper, hard, dry, and brittle, and of a uniform shining fracture. The colour is sometimes almost black, and sometimes of a light brown. Malica opium is made in the form of flat, roundish cakes, five or six inches in diameter, and from 4 ozs. to 8 o.-^s. in weight. They are quite hard, dry, and brittle, of a light brown colour, shining fracture, and quite free from impurities. This is much superior to the common Bengal opium, and yields 9 j per cent, of morphia. Persian opium.—It is very rarely that this appears in the markets of this country. It is presented in the form of cylindrical pieces, three inches and a half long, and half an inch thick, wrapped in glossy paper, and tied with a cotton thread. Under the microscope it exhibits the agglutinated tears met with in Smyrna opium, but much smaller in size. The quality is of a very inferior description, and, on analysis, does not contain more than three per cent, of morphia. Opium is one of the most valuable medicines of the pharmacopoeia. It is a stimulant narcotic, exercises an absolute control over the nervous system, but its operation is one of the most complicated and obscure in the science of medicine. A small dose, such as half a grain or a grain, calms excitement, allays pain, and often procures refreshing slumber. A larger dose produces, in some cases, more or less of profound stupor, succeeded by debility and fears; in others it is exciting, exalts all the functions, and causes a sort of delirium or mental alienation; and, lastly, it occasions death. The natives of India and the East use' opium in large quantities without inconvenience, particularly the Mahommedans and Hindoos, who find in it the most pleasing substitute for those alcoholic drinks which their religion pro- hibits. The Turks and Persians eat it almost constantly, and mix it with their sherbets ajid other beverages; and by many nations of the East it is smoked, as those of the West do tobacco. In the year 1852 the opium imported into this country amounted to the enormous quantity of fifty-one tons. According to the best authorities the che- mical constituents of opium are, morphia, nar- cotine, codeia, paramorphia, narceine, meconin, porphyroxia, pseudomorphia, meconic and sul- phuric acids, a peculiar acid not yet sufficiently investigated ; extractive matter, gum, bassorine ; a peculiar resinous body, insoluble in ether, and containing nitrogen; fixed oil; a substance resembling caoutchouc; an odorous volatile principle, besides lignin and a small propor- tion of acetic acid, sulphate of lime, sulphate of potassa, alumina, and iron. By far the most important of these ingredients is morphia. It is the chief, if not the exclusive narcotic prin- ciple of opium, and is a salt crystallised in the form of irregular six-sided prisms, colourless, bitter, inodorous, and nearlj"^ insipid. When exposed to heat it becomes white and opaque ; at a higher temperature it melts to a yellowish liquid, and crystallises again when cooled ; and when heated in the open air it burns with a bright flame. It is nearly insoluble in water, but quite soluble in oil or boiling alcohol. It is the salts of morphia, the acetate, sulphate, and muriate, that are used in medical practice. They have the anodyne, soporific, and diajiho retic properties of opium, but are less stimulant, less disposed to constipate the bowels, and less apt to leave behind them headache, nausea, or other unpleasant effects. Narcotine, or narcotina as it is called by those who regard it as an alkali, is a white, tasteless, and inodorous salt, in the form of flexible, needle-shaped crystals, larger than those of morphia. It is insoluble in cold, but soluble in boiling water and boiling alcohol, the fixed and volatile oils, and the diluted acids. 'J'hough tasteless, its salts are bitter—even more so than those of morphia. Contrary opinions have been expressed with regard to the active properties of narcotine. Magendie found that 1 grain, dissolved in oil, threw a dog into a state of stupor, which, in twenty-four hours, terminated in death; but that the unpleasant effects were modified or prevented in conjunction with acetic acid, 24 grains being given to a dog, dissolved in vinegar, without causing death. M. Baily prescribed it iu the dose of 60 grains, both in