HAS r 30 ] HAT buttered toast in a bowl or dish, or grate nut- meg over it. HASTY FRITTERS. Warm some butter in a stewpan ; then take half a pint of ale, and stir into it gradually a little flour and a few currants or sliced apples ; beat them up, and drop a large spoonful at a time all over the pan, taking care that they do not stick together, turn them with an egg slice, and when brown lay them on a dish, strew sugar over them, and serve them hot. HASTY INDIAN-MEAL PUDDING Boil three quarts of water in an iron pot, mix a pint of Indian meal in cold water, and make it thin enough to pour easily. When the water boils pour it in, and stir well with a wooden stick for that purpose. It takes about an hour to boil Add salt to your taste, and stir in dry meal to make it thick enough, beating all the time. Eat it with milk and molasses, or butter and sugar This is said to be a wholesome diet for dyspeptic jatients, and makes a good meal for cliildren. HASTY PUDDING. To a quart ot oat- n eal add gradually two quarts of water, so that they may mix smoothly, and boil for a quarter of an hour, constantly stirring it; take it off, and i dd a little salt and butter. To be eaten with ireacle. This pudding may be made with milk instead of water, or half milk and half water. HAT. (See Apparel.) We shall confine our notes to what is called a beaver hat, although tbe fur of the beaver is now rarely employed in its formation. The selection of a hat will greatly depend on the circumstances of the purchaser, and the locality in which the hat is to be worn. For the country, or in situations where rain and bad weather may be expected to be encountered, the best beaver hat will be found the cheapest in the end, because it retains its shape and colour, and wears well to the last; whereas in towns, where umbrellas are available, and shelter always at hand, the inferior article, which can be purchased at about one-third, or even one- fourth the price of the other, may be the most desirable, seeing that you may have three or four for the value of one. Those gossamers 0 died French are by far the best, and little inferior in appearance to the best beaver hats. Take care, however, that the nap is short, and that they are free from smell; for, in some of the best quality, the smell of the glue and varnish used is very offensive, particularly when the hat becomes warm on the head. When a hat is bulged or indented take the same means as the hatter, namely, softening the glue over steam, and using a hot iron, and you may easily restore it to shape : to attempt it without this precaution would very probably cause it to crack. Lightness is au essential quality of a good hat, and when circumstances permit it is wise to make your selection before the article is finished, that is, lined and bound, because in that state you may form a judgment of the quality the foundation is composed of. Seeing that hats made wholly of beaver cannot now be obtained, the composition should approach as near in quality to that as possible; therefore, when the material consists of much wool, and appears coarse, it should be rejected in favour of one having a close and firm texture apparent on the inside under the lining. In fact, experienced persons always insist on raising the lining before they purchase; and there is now so much competition and imposition in trade, and articles are got up so cheaply, and consequently of such inferior materials, that this precaution is quite necessary. Hats require great care, or they will soon look shabby. Brush them with a soft camel-hair brush : this will keep the fur smooth. Have a stick for each hat to keep it m its proper shape, especially if the hat has got wet; put the stick in as soon as the hat is taken off, and when dry put it into a hat box, particularly if not in constant use, as the hght, air, and dust soon turn hats brown. It should first be gently freed from the superabundant moisture by means of a dry soft cloth, and never with a pocket-hand- kerchief, unless taken perfectly fresh from the wardrobe for the occasion. Should tbe hat have received only a partial sprinkling of rain, it must be brought into the same uniform state of wetness by the application of a soft hat brush dipped lightly in cold water, and pressed gently round in the direction of the felt. When thus uniformly affected by the wet take a hard brush, and gradually bring the beaver into a perfect and even state of adjustment, and then lay the hat gently on its side on a clean cloth, ana leave it all night to dry Next morning bring it into its usual state by the use of the ordinary soft hat brush, and it will be found to have suffered little comparative injury. The better the quality of the hat the oftener this process may be repeated without injury. At length, however, the fur will begin to assume a dull grey aspect, but this may be immediately removed, and the lustre restored, by brushing with a hat brush alternately made hot by hold- ing before a fire, and quickly passing it round the hat. HxiT, STRAW. For varnishing see Basket Varnish. HaTEREAUX, VEAL. Cut from the noix. chump, or any convenient piece, as much meat as will fill the dish ; let the pieces be about three inches long, and two broad, or larger; lard them lengthwise, and turn down the larded side Have a cooked farce that will, with a third more,