KO U [ 308 ] KNI and then rib Ironi six to ten rounds, or more if approved, according to the size of the stocking, or the coarseness of the worsted. Form the ribs by turning two or tliree stitches, and knit- ting the same number plain. The use of the ribs is to keep the top of the stocking from turning down. Chikh'en's socks require to be ribbed at least two inches deep, as the ribbing gives elasticity to the tops, and so prevents them from falling. As a general rule, the length of a stocking before the nari'owings should be at least equal to twice the width of the top, so that as many I'ounds should be knitted as will correspond with the number of loops on the needles. For tall persons a still greater length would, of course, be necessary. A full-sized stocking is reduced by narrowing nearly one-third part, and a child's stocldng not quite so much as one-third part. Socks for children do not require narrowing except at the instep. To knit an infant's boot begin at the sole, and knit backwards and forwards, as though knitting a garter, so far as to reach the ankle. By this means rather less than one-half of the stitches are left on a spare needle ; and the re- maining stitches should be knitted backwai'ds and forwards as before, until sufficiently wide to reach across the upper part of the foot, Next cast on the same number of stitches as are on the spare needle, and make the two sides correspond in all respects. Raise and knit the stitches across the instep along with those on the side needles until you have added the proper length of the leg. Finish by casting one loop over another until all are off, and then sewing up the sole and the back of the leg; lastly, pass a thread through the toe, and draw it together to a point. Give the required roundness to the heel by widening and narrowing. When you are per- fectly acquainted with the art of knitting a stocking you would knit various other things upon the same principle, such as gloves, mit- tens, men's inside waistcoats with sleeves, children's woollen leggings, with garter fronts, and the ]ike.—{Finchley Needlework Manual.) KNITTING, SCOTCH, is performed with only one needle, and that must have a hook at one end, and there never must be more than one stitch on the needle at a time. To begin the work, take one end of the worsted or cotton in the left hand, and with the right hand place another part of the thread over it in the form of a loop. Draw the thread through this loop, and make as many loops as you may require stitches. When these loops are drawn rather closely to- gether the work will appear like chain stitch ; then knit the first and last loops together to join them. To do this pass the needle through a stitch on the side which is next to you, and then turn the thread over the hook, and draw it through the loop ; then make another stitch, and draw it through the loop in the same manner. Thus you have a second stitch upon the needle, which must be drawn through the first stitch, so as to have only one stitch on the needle, and so proceed with every remaining stitch round and round. You widen by knit- ting two stitches in one loop, and you narrow by taking two stitches on the needle, and knit- ting them as one. You can make an alteration in the pattern by passing the needle into the stitches on the side farthest from you. It might be adopted either to diversify the general appearance of an article, or for the purpose of finishing off its edges neatly. This description of knitting is very fi'equently employed for in- fants' woollen or cotton shoes or boots; and braces or suspenders may also be knitted in this manner, and rendered more elastic by knit- ting one stitch, and slipping the next upon the needle without knitting, casting the thread over it to the next succeeding stitch. In the follow- ing row this stitch and its loop should be knitted together, and the stitches which were knitted before should be slipped, and have a loop formed over them. This is something like what is known as the " crochet stitch."—(Fincldeij Needlework Manual.) KOUMISS, or Milk Wine Put into a wooden vessel as much mare's milk as you re- quire. It must be of the same day's milking. Add to it one-sixth part of water off the boil, and throw into it about an eighth part of old koumiss kept on purpose; or, if you have none, the same quantity of cow's milk in the sourest possible state. Cover the vessel with several folds of coarse, thick linen cloth, over which put a couple of boards that will rest upon the edge of the tub ; let it remain in a moderately warm place without being stirred or touched until the milk has become thoroughly sour, and a thick mass appears at the surface. This will occupy from fifteen to twenty-four hours. With a piece of wood, broad at the bottom, the whole must then be beaten until the curd is not only broken, but so mixed with the fluid around it as to form a thick liquor. Let it now remain covered and at rest during twenty-four hours more ; then put it into a common butter churn, and beat it until the liquid is perfectly blended into homo- geneousness. It is now fit for use, though it is better after having been made a few days. It would now yield on distillation nearly a third of its bulk in a weak spii'it, which will bear rectification. Whenever the koumiss is used it must be previously agitated, so that its com- ponent parts may be well mixed and taken' to- gether. The koumiss may be kept in casks, or in pans for immediate use, and if placed in