PIG PIG [ 329 ] eome time drain and dip them in batter, fry them of a nice colour, and serve them with fiied parsley. PIG'S CHEEK. Take off the snout, and thoroughly clean the head; divide it, and take out the eyes and brains; sprinkle the head with salt, and let it strain for four-and-twenty hours. Well salt it with common salt and saltpetre, and, if it is to be dressed without stewing with peas, it must lie in salt for eight or ten days ; but if to be dressed with peas it need not lie in salt so long, and it must be washed first, and then simmered till tender. PIGS' EARS, BROILEn. Having slightly salted the ears, boil them in some good stock, with salt, pepper, coriander, tarragon, streaked bacon, and half a glass of white wine. When done split them in two towards the thick part, rub them lightly with some of their own fat, bread them all over, and colour them on the gridiron. PIGS' EARS, CAKE OF. Take fifteen or eighteen pigs' ears, aiad having singed and cleansed them thoroughly, cut them in halves, and put them into a pan, with a layer of bacon, clear salted water, juniper, coriander, bay leaf, cloves, thyme, and saltpetre ; cover the pan with a cloth; garlic, basil, sage, and ^ oz. of salt, and lay another pan on the top ; leave them in this eight or ten days, then drain and put them into a braising-pan with water, a bottle of white wine, and a glass oi brandy; simmer them: in about five hours take them off the fire. When nearly cold drain and arrange the ears in layers in a well-tinned mould alternately with pieces of tongue d Vecarlate. When full cover and put a weight on it, keep the mould as even as possible, let it cool, turn it out, and serve the cake with icily. . PIGS'EARS, STUFFED AND ROASTED. Make a farce of streaked bacon, veal, poultry, or game (minced), sweet herbs shred small, bread soaked m. cream, salt, and spices ; with this farce stuff as many half-boiled pigs' ears as you may require. Take an equal number of large slices of bacon, spread a layer of the farce over each, and tie an eai in every slice; cover them well with bread crumbs, fasten them on a spit, and roast them before 3 slow fire, basting with their own gravy. PIGS'FEET AND EARS, FRICASSEED. If they are to be dressed with cream no vinegar should be put into the pickle. Cut the feet and ears into neat bits, and boil them in a little milk; then pour that from them, and simmer in a little veal broth, with a piece of onion, mace, and lemon-peel. Before serving add a little cream, flour, butter, and salt. PIGS' FEET AND EARS, PICKLED. ■Wash the feet and gairs very clean, and between every foot put a bay leaf. When they are well soaked add some cloves, mace, coriander seed, and ginger ; put a bottle of white wine to three pairs of feet and ears, some bay leaves, and a bunch of sweet herbs; let them boil gently till they are tender, then take them out of the liquor, and lay them in an earthen pan. When cold take off the fat, and strain the liquor over them. They eat well cold, or warmed with jelly, thick- ened with butter rolled in flour; or take the feet and ears out of the jelly, dip them in yolk of egg, and then in crumbs of bread, and broil them or fry them in butter. Lay the ears in the middle, and the feet i-ound, or ragout them. PIGS' FEET AND EARS, RAGOIJT OF. Take them out of the pickle, split the feet, dip them in egg, then in bread crumbs and chopped parsley, fiy them in lard, and drain them; cut the ears into long narrow slips, flour them, and put them into good gravy; add catsup, morels, and pickled mushrooms; stew them, pour them into a dish, and lay the feet upon them. PIGS' FEET AND EARS, SOUSED. Clean them, and boil them until they are tender; then split the feet, and put them and the ears in salt water. When you use them dry them well in a cloth, dip them in batter, fry them, and send them to table with melted butter in a boat. They may be eaten cold, and will keep a considerable time. PIGS'-FEET JELLY. Clean and prepare them the same as for fricasseeing, then boil them in a small quantity of water till every bone can be taken out; throw in a handful of chopped sage, a handful of chopped parsley, and a seasoning of pepper, salt, and mace in fine powder. Simmer till the herbs are scalded, then pour the whole into a melon form. PIGS' FEET WITH TRUFFLES. Cut the feet in halves, tie and dress them as directed for Pigs" Pettitoes a la Ste, Menehould, but when they have simmered eight hours remove them from the fire. When about half cold take them out of the sauce, and bone them. Make a farce as follows :— Take equal portions of the white parts of cold roasted fowl, crumb of bread, and half-dressed calf's udder; pound then) all, at first separately, and then altogether. Mix them with the yolks of three or foui oggs, some minced truffles, a little cream, salt, pejiper, and spices : these being well amalgamated, add a few truffles cut in slices. Put this farce into the spaces left by the bones, and cover with either calf or pig's caul; keep the feet in their proper form, dip them in melted butter, and bread them. About twenty minutes before serving broil them slowly on both sides Serve them without sauce.