[ 210 ] MIL MIL the calf. In this manner ihej proceeS until tne ■whole of tlie cows are milked; and thus they obtain a small quantity of milk, it is trne, but that milk is of an exceedingly rich quality, ■which, in the hands of those Tv-ho know how to manage it, is manufactured into the richest marrowy bntter that can be anywhere met with. This richness of the Highland butter has long been remarked, and has been nniversally ascribed to the old grass on which the cows feed in those remote glens; but it is, in fact, chiefly to be attributed to the practice here described, which has long prevailed in those districts. Whether a similar practice could be economi- cally adopted in other districts we do not pre- sume to afBrm, but doubtless other secondary uses might be found for the milk of an inferior quality. It might be converted into butter of a secondary quality; or it might be sold in a sweet state, where the situation of the farm is within reach of a town ; or it might be converted into cheeses, which being made oi sweet milk, if made with care and skill, might be of a very fine qualit}'. Fourthly. If the quality of the butter be the principal object attended to, it will be necessary not only to separate the first from the last- drawn milk, but also to take nothing but the cream that is Jirst separated from the best milk, as it is this first rising cream which is of prime quality. The remainder of the milk, which will still be sweet, may either be employed for the purpose of making sweet milk cheeses, or may be allowed to stand and throw np cream for making an inferior sort of butter, as circum- stances may require or direct. Fifthly. From the preceding facts we are enabled to perceive that butter of the very finest quality can only be obtained from a dairy of considerable extent when judiciously managed ; for, when only a very small propor- tion of each cow's milk can be set apart for throwing tip cream, and when a very small pro- portion only of that cream can be reserved as of the prime quality, it follows that, unless the quantity of milk were, upon the whole, very considerable, the quantity of prime cream pro- duced would be so small as to be scarcely worth the manufacturing of it into butter separately. Sixthly. From these premises we are led to form a conclusion extremely different from the opinion commonly entertained on this subject, viz., that it seems probable that the very best butter could only be, with economy, made in those dairies where the making of cheese is the principal object. 'The reason is obvious. If only a small portion of the milk ought to be set apart for butter, all the rest may be made into cheese while the milk is yet warm from the cow, and perfectly sweet; and if only tha^ portion of cream which rises during the firs* three or four hours after milking is to be re served for butter, the rich milk which is lef' after that cream is separated, being still nearl} or quite sweet, may be converted into cheese witl nearly as great advantage as the newly drawn milk itself. Nor does this observation tend to invalidate the justness of the commonly received opinion upon this subiect, which will, in general, be just, according to the usual practice of dairy owners in any part of Britain, under whose system of management the making of good butter and good cheese in the same dairy is impracticable; for, where the whole milk is set apart lor the separation of cream, and the whole of the cream is separated, the milk must necessarily have turned sour before it is made into cheese, and no best or prime cheese can be made from milk which has once attained that state. It is not generally known that the spon- taneous separation of cream, and the production of butter, are never efiected but in consequence of the production of acid in the milk; and the formation of that acid is accelerated by the separation of carbonic acid gas {fixed air) from the milk, which is accelerated or retarded by circumstances not usually adverted to. This important fact was discovered during the course of the experiments on milk already alluded to, which were made many years since, and were occasioned by the following circumstances :— Having remarked that of two tea-cups, which, from previous experiments, were known to con- tain milk of the same quality, one had the cream upon it at one time of a diiferent con- sistence from the other, and being at a loss how to account for this variation, we tasted the milk in each of the tea-cups, and found one of them sensibly more acid than the other. A piece of newly slaked lime having been acci- dentally nearer to one of the cups than to the other, a suspicion arose that it might be occa- sioned by this circumstance. With a view to ascertain this fact, two tea-cups were ordered to be immediately filled with equal quantities oi the same milk, and one of them was immersed up to its brim in a quantity of quicklime, which had been so long slaked as to have acquired the same temperature with the air, but had not become altogether effete ; the other tea-cup was placed in the same apartment at the distance of about a yard from the former. The result was, that in the course of twelve hours the milk in the tea-cup placed among the lime tasted most sensibly sourer than the other; the cream, also, was more perfectly separated from it than from the other.