TUR [ 506 J TUR small, and put it into a stewpan; cut as many champignons as you think proper in pieces the size of a farthing and put them in water and lemon juice to keep them white; put a little hutter into a stewpan, with the juice of half a lemon ; add the champignons, set them on the fire, and when the butter is melted add six ladlesful of consomme and the same of veloute; reduce this to half, skim and take off all the fat, then pour the sauce on the mince, set it on the fire to make it quite hot without boiling, put in a liaison of an egg or two, and 1 oz. of butter, and serve it. TURKEY, BOILED. Their legs must be taken off at the knee, and the sinews drawn out by putting the leg into a vice, and great atten- tion is necessary not to cut them too open. The hooked end of a basting spoon is the best thing for drawing poultry. The cook, knowing where the gall lies, ought to be careful to avoid it. If it is broken every part that it touches must be perfectly washed or cut away. If the liver is diseased cut away the part, separate the fat, and put it into a jar kept on purpose, with the eggs and intestines, and be particularly careful of the egg caul. See Stijffing. The following directions are applicable to other fowls as well as turkeys :— The intestines of three or four fowls will make a very nice dish, and are excellent for mock turtle or any other garnishing. Skin the gizzards, or tack or hang the skins into a screen to dry, for making galline curds. Put the heads and feet into boiling water, to take the feathers and rough skin off the feet, as they may be dressed in giblets or put into the stock pot. If the poultry is killed at home the blood ought to be preserved, as it is very delicate ; it will fill the skin of the neck, and with a bit of liver will make a nice small pudding, with cream and Naples biscuits. In Italy they are very careful of the neck, because of the delicacy of the blood, and braise it very softly, just till the blood thickens, without boiling. Be also careful of such feathers as are useful, which is, at least, more cleanly than throwing them about the kitchen and burning them. The pen feathers ought to be drawn before they are killed. All this is very little more trouble than throwing them into the waste tub, besides saving nice things that cannot be obtained in any other way, while the blood is so very nourishing to the debilitated. The gizzards, intestines, heads, and feet ought to be simmered for two hours, after ■which let the gizzards and the livers, which must only be blanched, be put into the wings, after the fowls have been farced and stuffed, according to the occasion or manner of dressing, with oysters, truffles, mushrooms and veal farce. If the fowls are to be braised they may te larded, but the lard must not touch the braise. If they are to be boiled, put them upon the fire in a saucepan, as near the size as possible, with milk, water, and a little rice flour. This will keep them white without sapping them, and the farce will nourish them williiu. There is nothing more disgusting and com- mon in dressing poultry than a dirty-looking crop, which is occasioned by the dark, wet, raw, coarse stuffing, which discolours and prevents the cooking of the top of the breast and wings. No kind of farce should be used but such as is well made and well cooked; and should the colour be dark the breast may be lined with a slice of thin bacon, or washed over with white of egg. For family dinners a rice or delicate vegeta- ble pudding may be put into the bodies, the vents and necks of which must be firmly tied. There is hardly any sauce but high salmis that may not be served with boiled fowl—shell fish of all kinds, liver, mushroom, parsley, curry, anchovy, egg, celery, and other vegeta- bles. When the fowls are not of a good colour a veiy thick parsley or liver sauce is to be poured over them. If butter sauces are used, let them, for poultry, be made of butter and cream. Hard pounded yolks and anchovy sauce made thick, as well as liver, are excellent covering sauce. TURKEY, BOILED (au Bourgeois). Truss the turkey the same as for boiling, put some water into a saucepan, set it on the fire, put in some salt, a large handful of chopped parsley, and some peppercorns. As soon as the water boils put in the turkey, and let it boil very gently till sufficiently done, but not too much so, In the meanwhile set on the fire a saucepan with a bit of butter rolled in flour, a little water, some parsley cut very small, a thin slice of garlic, two anchovies, a little lemon-peel cut into dice, a little lemon juice, and a little salt: let all these stew together, thicken it, and serve over the turkey. TURKEY, BONED. For this purpose you must have a fine large tender turkey, and after it is drawn, washed, and wiped dry, lay it on a clean table, and with a very sharp knife, with a narrow blade and point, begin at the neck ; then go round at the shoulders and wings, and carefully separate the flesh from the bone, scraping it down as you proceed. Next loosen the flesh from the breast, back, and body, and then from the thighs. It requires care and patience to do it nicely, and to avoid tearing or breaking the skin. The knife should also penetrate to the bone, scraping loose the flesh, rather than cutting it. When all the flesh has been completely loosened take the turkey by the