HEA [ 31 ] HAT cover the hatereaux; take as many mushrooms, fat livers, and truffles, or truffle powder, as will be equal to the third wanting for the farce ; cut them into small dice, mix them in it with some yolk of egg and spices, and cover the hatereaux with it; roll, stitch, and paper them; hang them on a bird spit, baste them with butter, and dish them over an Italian rousse or blanche. HATTED KIT, SCOTCH. To make this excellent and healthy dish a small deep tub, with a cover to shut close like a chum, and a fosset below to run off the whey, is necessary, and is generally kept for it. Fill the kit two-thirds full of buttermilk from the churn. When the new milk comes in warm add a sixth or eighth part of buttermilk ; mix it well, and cover it closely. At the next milking put in the same quantity, and mix again. If the weather is hot it may re- quire no more, which will be known by the milk thickening on the top. Let it ripen, and then try it by the spigot, and if the whey is milky it must stand a little longer till it becomes clear. The whey must be well drawn off. Take out what is necessary for a dish, lay it upon a drainer, beat it with a wooden spoon, dish it, and strew sugar over, with a little rich cream. It ought to be used quickly, as it soon grows very acid. It is a very healthy and excellent dish. HAWTHORN LIQUOR. The full blossoms of the whitethorn are to be picked dry and clean from the leaves and stalks, and as much put into a large bottle as it will hold lightly without being pressed down. It is then to be filled up with French brandy, and allowed to stand two or three months, when it must be decanted off, and sweetened with clarified sugar, or with capil- laire. Without the sweetening it is an excellent seasoning for puddings and custards. HAZEL. The uses of this wood are various: it is employed for poles, hoops for barrels, spars, hurdles, handles for implements of husbandry, walking-sticks, fishing-rods, &c. Where beauti- ful specimens are required for veneering or staining, the roots of the hazel-nut tree are preferable to the branches. In Italy the chips are used for fining turbid wines, and in countries where yeast is scarce the twigs of this shrub dried, and afterwards soaked in the fermenting liquor, serve as a substitute for that article in brewing. Painters and engravers prepare coals for drawing outlines from the wood of this plant by the following process:—Pieces of dried hazel about the thickness of a finger, and four or five inches in length, are put into a large pot filled with sand, and the top of which is closely covered with clay. In this manner they are placed in a potter's oven, or otherwise ex- posed to a sufiiciently intense heat, and, on cooling, the sticks are found to be converted into charcoal, which draws freely, and is easily effaced with India rubber. The kernels of the fruit of the hazel- lut tree, though difficult of digestion, have a mild, farinaceous, oily taste, which is agreeable to most palates; yet fXherts are said to be more nourishing than nuts. Both, however, operate as a cathartic when chewed small and taken in considerable quantities, but produce constipa- tion of the bowels if swallowed in large pieces, and dysentery if eaten unripe. A kmd of chocolate has been prepared from this fruit, which has also occasionally been converted into bread. An expressed oil is obtained from the nuts which is little inferior to that of almonds: It is often preferably used by painters, as it readily dries • and chemists employ it as the basis of fragrant oils artificially prepared, because it easily combines with and retains odours. HAZEL-NUT CAKES. Prepare i lb. of nuts, grill them of a fine colour in a pan over the fire, and make them into a paste like almonds in the mortar. Make a paste of 8 ozs. of flour, 8 ozs. of pounded sugar, ai>d the yolks of four or five eggs to give the paste a colour. Finish the same as Potato C.4iKEs. Let them be sufficiently done. They may be pearled with sugar before they are put into the oven. HEAD. For affections of the head see Apoplexy, Brain (Inflammation and Water on), Epilepsy, Headache, and Skull. HEAD, BLOWS ON THE. The danger to be apprehended from violent blows on the head, if unattended by fracture of the skull, is a concussion of the brain. The symptoms are deep-seated pain, general inertness, silent breathing, a low pulse, together with little or no contraction of the pupils of the eyes. There is sometimes fever more or less acute. External injury and sudden violent motion may be considered as morbid agents. The danger, which is extreme, will be either proportioned to the urgency of the inflammatory symptoms or to the general inirritability. The pulse rising, the recollection returning, and the pupils suitably contracting, are tokens of a favourable termination. If inflammatory symptoms predominate re- course must be had to vegetable diet, mild tem- perature, forbearance in regard to motion, lessen- ing of objects acting on the organs of sense, and of such as influence the mind, and also to suitable evacuation. Inertness of the system unattended with inflammation, or concussion as it commonly occurs, will, on the contrary, uniformly require remedies, such as nutritious diet, volatiles, simple cordials, blisters, and warm bathing.