[ 437 ] SHO SHO imbibe perspiration, whicb is liable to be ab- sorbed again into the system, and this is injurious. All flannel vestments that are made full should be gathered, not plaited, because in the latter case they become thick and matted by washing; and in the event of their being turned from top to bottom, in order to alter the wear, the part that had been plaited will be found to be so drawn and injured that two or three inches of it must be cut off. All fulness in calico and other materials used for wearing apparel, such as the tops of petticoat sleeves, should be gathered, and not set in plaits, because they can never be " got up " smoothly, and are liable to be torn with the point of the iron.—{Finchley Manual.) SHOE. See Boots. SHORT BREAD, SCOTCH. Warm 4 lbs. of butter, but do not oil it; sift 8 lbs. of fine floui', keeping out 1 lb. to work it up with, li lb. of moist sugar rolled till it is quite fine, 1 lb. of bakers' caraways, 1 lb. of orange-peel cut in small pieces, 1 lb. of sweet almonds blanched and cut, and ^Ih. of citron cut small; mix all well together, work it till it becomes smooth, and divide it into ten equal parts. Take soft brown paper (half a sheet for each cake), dust it with a little flour, roll the paste out square on it, and pinch it up on all sides; prick it well, and strew some caraways on the top. Put it in the oven when the bottom has a solid heat. A quarter of an hour will bake it. SHOWER-BATH. The shower-bath is the application of water, generally cold, by letting it fall upon the head and body through a vessel perforated with small holes like a cullender. The shock produced by this discharge of water generally drives the blood from the head to the lower extremities, and from the surface of the skin to the interior , but, by an almost instan^ taneous reaction, the blood is brought back to the surface, and the whole body is in a healthy glow ere the discharge of water, which should last sixty or seventy seconds, is over. It has been thought that, in persons having a tendency to determination of blood to the head, the re- action brought back the blood to the head in a rush, often attended with danger. This is, however, not the case. The stream of blood, on being sent from the head by the coh lapse of the blood-vessels which the shook pro- duces, is distributed by the reaction in an equal proportion throughout the system, and does not, therefore, return to the head, except in such quantity as will impart to that organ the same equalised temperature that exists all over the body. In subjects having a decided tendency to apoplexy it might be thought advisable, under the direction of a medical attendant, to stand in warm, or even hot water, whilst the shower of cold water is flowing over the head. The reason of this is obvious : the heat of the water causes an expansion, or rather a relaxation, of the blood-vessels of the feet, by which they are enabled to receive and retain any excess of blood that may be driven from the head, whilst the reaction takes a sufficient quantity to the surface of the latter, to keep it at the equalised temperature before mentioned. The reaction produced by the shock of the shower-bath appears—by bringing the blood to the surface of the skin, and equalising its tem- perature, as well as that of the interior of the body—to produce a most beneficial result, in- asmuch as an action takes place on the viscera of the abdomen, on the stomach, and, in most cases, all through the intestinal canal, espe- cially on the duodenum and the colon, in one or other of which there is always disturbance in dyspepsia, which disturbance, in most dyspeptic cases, the shower-bath will remove, giving the proper excitement to the lower intestines, and often removing obstructions without the further aid of medicine. The shower-bath has been strongly recom- mended by some of our greatest physicians as most beneficial to those who, from leading a sedentary life, and overloading their stomachs with an excess of strong animal food, have de- teriorated their digestive organs to such a degree that the functions of the stomach and intestines are in a state of constant disturbance. In such oases the shower-bath will be found most beneficial, though we must state that, in order to insure its being so, the patient must alter his mode of living, and pursue a strict regimen. To persons in good health, as well as to the apoplectic and the dyspeptic, the shower-bath offers incalculable benefits. It regulates the action of the stomach and bowels, keeps the body in a pleasant glow in winter, and imparts to it a refreshing coolness in sultry weather; it gives appetite, facilitates digestion, quiets the nerves, and produces a placidity of mind which can exist only under the most perfect action of the animal functions. Much dread has been expressed by delicate females at the shock of the shower-bath, and this dread has been rather humoured than com- bated by their medical attendants. The conse- quence has been that one of the most powerful means in nervous and dyspeptic affections has been lost, from an imaginary, or at least a weak and foolish fear. The shock of the shower- bath, properly taken, ought to produce no un- pleasant effect; the sensation at first ought to be scarcely stronger than it is during the whole time that the water is flowing, unless in cases