[ 255 ] NIT NOV fluids. On the contrary, saltpetre will be most beneficially used in acute rheumatisms, inflam- matory fevers, and even in those hemorrhages arising from congestions of the blood in general, or from a plethoric state. NITEE, SWEET SPIEIT OF. This is the same as nitric ether, and is prepared by distillation from a mixture of nitric acid (aqua- fortis) and spirit of wine. See Ether. NODDY PUDDING. Beat some blanched almonds very finely, add one or two spoonsful of rose water or cream, strain the whole through a sieve, boil, and set it by to cool; then thicken it with beaten eggs, sweeten with fine lump sugar dissolved in rose water, and tie it up in different bags; boil them half an hour in a small saucepan, and melt butter with rose water and sugar for the sauce. These curious puddings may be coloured with spinach juice, safl'ron, beet, and other articles. NOISES IN THE HEAD AND EAES. The most usual phenomenon is that of a rushing sound in one or both ears, which persons com- pare to that of wind or the tide, as it often resembles the wind by having gradually in- creasing and decreasing gusts, and the tide by consisting of alternate waves. The sensation generally increases towards night, and is often perceived only on lying down. On some occa- sions it is said to resemble music, more par- ticularly the riiiging of bells, and has also been compared to the squeaking of rats or mice, and to the sound of human voices. These noises often occur in the same patient, with various other disorders termed nervous. They not only sometimes overpower the accurate perception of other sounds, but accompany the commencement of occasional or permanent deaf- ness, such as has been said to arise from preter- natural fulness of blood in the organ of hearing. Hence, in common with deafness, the noises are often a mere temporary effect of cold in the head. If, therefore, the theory of that species of deafness, and of other disorders, of which these noises in the ears make a part, be well founded, these circumstances might be consi- dered as sufficient to prove that such noises depend on the rush of blood through some part of the ear. This conclusion will derive additional force from the following circumstances, which show the relation of the malady in question to other excessive determinations of blood to the head. These noises are apt to be produced by whatever increases the action of the heart, as hot rooms, late hours, long watching, strong drink, violent muscular exertion, long or excessive mental attention, and whatever agitates the mind ; and they are diminished by all the causes which have a contrary operation, such as cool air, temperate living, adequate rest, and everything which quiets the action of the heart. NONPAREIL WATER. See Eau Sans Pareille. NORFOLK DUMPLINGS. See Dumplings, Norfolk. NORFOLK FLUID. This is applied to leather for softening and preserving it. Melt together 4 ozs. of yellow resin ; 2 ozs. of fir resin ; 12 ozs. of bees' wax ; 3 pints of linseed oil. When melted add 1 quart of neat's-foot oil and 1 pint of oil of turpentine. See Boots and Leather (Waterproofing). NORFOLK PUDDING PUFFS. Mix three eggs, three table-spoonsful of flour, half a pint of cream, and two table-spoonsful of orange- flower or rose water; sweeten the whole with sugar, put the batter into deep custard cups about half full, set them in the oven, and when the puffs rise to the top they are done. NORFOLK PUNCH (1). To twenty quarts of brandy put the peels of thirty lemons, and as many oranges peeled extremely thin ; let them infuse twelve hours, and then take thirty quarts of water that has been boiled, but become cold, and put to it 15 lbs. of double-refined sugar. When well mixed pour it on the brandy and peels, adding the juice of the oranges, and that of twenty-four lemons. Incorporate all these mixtures thoroughly, and then strain the whole through a hair sieve into a clean barrel that has held spirits, and put to it two quarts of new milk ; stir it, and bung it closely. Let it stand six weeks in a wai-m cellar, and then bottle the liqueur for use, observing great care that the bottles are clean and dry, and the corks good. This will keep for years. NORFOLK PUNCH (2). Pare six lemons and three Seville oranges thin, squeeze the juice into a jug, and put to it two quarts of brandy, one of white wine, one of milk, and 11 lb. of sugar; mix the whole well, and then cover it for twenty-four hours ; strain through a jelly bag till it is clear, and bottle it. NOSE, BLEEDING. See Bleeding Nose. NOSE, REDNESS OF. See Borax. NOTICE TO QUIT. See House. NOTTINGHAM PUDDING. Peel and core six apples, but leave them whole, which is done by picking out the cores with the point of a small knife, and filling up the cavity with sugar. Place the apples in a pie dish, pour over them a little batter, aHd bake in a moderate oven. NOUGATS. Blanch f lb. of shelled almonds and \ lb. of bitter shelled almonds; throw them into cold water, and then take them out and wipe them ; cut them into small pieces, but do not pound them, and mix them well together. Break small 1 lb. of loaf sugar, and add to it