SUP S WE [ ] nutntious bread, and when roasted they form an excellent substitute for coffee. In some parts of the continent a kind of bouilli is made of them, which serves as food for infants. They also yield by expression a fixed oil, little if at all inferior to olive oil, which is used in some parts of Europe both for burning in lamps and for other domestic purposes to which olive oil is applied and for making soaps. As food for poultry they have been found to be very nutri- tious. One acre will produce 50 bushels of seed, yielding 50 gallons of oil, and about 1500 lbs. of oil cake ; and the stems will yield about 10 per cent, of potash. The pith of the sunflower has been recommended by M. Percy for the preparation of moxa, for which it is well adapted by the nitre it contains enabling it to burn without being blown upon. SUPPURATION. This is morbid generation of matter, and one of the results of inflamma- tion. The causes are such as injury of the part and previous disease. It may be known from other affections by the urgency of the inflamma- tion, by the pain of it in part subsiding on the formation of matter, and by the fluctuation which becomes perceptible. After suppuration has taken place, if the tumour be external, and a fluctuation is per- ceived, so soon as the thinness of the skin and the appearance justify the step, the tumour should be opened in the most depending part. The incision should be proportioned to its size. The sore may afterwards be dressed with dry lint and some suitable ointment. When the tumour is of considerable magni- tude a free discharge of matter will not always effect a cure, as another collection will be apt to form in the same cyst. To prevent this the cavity of it must be destroyed by exciting a cer- tain degree of inflammation, which will seldom fail to effect an ultimate concretion of sides. In such a lai'ge collection of matter as that of lumbar abscess the opening must be small, and so managed as to heal with the first intention. See Abscess and Inflammatton. SURFEIT WATER. Take scurvy grass, brook-lime, water-cresses, Roman wormwood, rue, mint, balm, sage, and olives, of each one handful; poppies, if fresh, half a peck, but if they be dry only half that quantity; cochineal and saffron, of each 1 drachm; aniseeds, caraway seeds, coriander seeds, and cardamom seeds, of each 1 oz.; scraped liquorice, 2 ozs.; split figs, raisins of the sun stoned, of each 1 lb. ; juniper berries, mace, sweet fennel seeds (all bruised), and beaten nutmeg, of each I oz.; a few flowers of rosemary, marigold, and sage. Put all these into a large stone jar, and put to them three gallons of French brandy ; cover it closely, and let it stand near the fire for three weeks; stir it three times a week, and be sure to keep it closely stopped, and then strain it off. Bottle the liquor, and pour on the ingredients a bottle more of French brandy; let it stand a week, stirring it once a day ; then distil it in a cold still, and you will have a fine white surfeit water. Though this is best made in summer, yet you may make it at any time of the year if you live in London, because the ingredients are always to be had there either green or dry. SWAN'S DOWN. See Feathers. SWEEPING. All apartments, whether car- peted or not, should be swept with tea leaves. Many persons object to have them used, on account of their liability to stain when they are accidentally trodden on. This, however, is an evil so easily remedied that it is a pity so neat and cleanly a practice should be omitted in consequence of this trifling objection. Let the leaves be put in a pan of water for a few hours, and squeezed dry just before they are going to be made use of, and they will be found to have lost all colour, and may be safely applied to the most delicate carpet. Some mistresses will only allow the floors to be sprinkled with plain water. This plan in- evitably leaves marks on the boards, in conse- quence of the smears which the dust causes by being swept over the damped spots. Others, again, object to any method of laying the dust, so that clouds are daily raised, which settle again, to be on every morrow renewed. Where the chief beverage of the family is coffee, in large towns leaves are with difficulty procured for this tidy purpose; but the greengrocer for the merest trifle will supply a handful of any species of small leaves, such as ash, elm, balm, mint, &c., which answer as well as tea leaves when they have been steeped and squeezed dry. SWEETBREAD PIE. Lay a puff paste half an inch thick at the bottom of a deep dish, and put forcemeat round the sides ; cut three or four sweetbi'eads in pieces according to the size of the pie, lay them in first, then some arti- choke bottoms, each cut into four parts, then some cocks' combs, a few truffles, morels, as- pai-agus tops, mushrooms, yolks of eggs boiled hard, forcemeat balls, and season with pepper and salt; nearly fill the pie with water, put on the lid, and let it bake for two hours. Thicken some veal gravy with a little cream and flour, and pour it into the pie when baked. SWEETBREAD, SMALL CASES OF SCALLOPS OF. Blanch and parboil some sweetbreads ; cut them into small scallops ; then chop separately and finely half a pint of mush- rooms, a little parsley, and four or five shallots ; add a little fat bacon rasped, and a piece of fresh butter; season the scallops with pepper, salt, and a little mace, and stew the whole together