MAC :\[ AC [ I'O ] MACAKOON BLANC-MANGER. Chip email 1 oz. of the Lest Russian isinglass, put it into a small saucepan, pour on it a gill of cold water, and boil it till the isinglass is entirely melted, stirring and skimming it well; then strain it, cover it, and set it away. Have ready a quart of cream or very rich milk boihng hot; crush ^ lb. or more of bitter- almond macaroons; mix them well with the boiling cream, cover the vessel, and let it stand (stirring it occasion- ally) till the macaroons are all dissolved. Next add the lukewarm isinglass, stir the whole very hard, and then transfer it to blanc-manger moulds that have been slightly rubbed on the inside with a little sweet oil; set them on ice or in a very cold place, and stir occasionally till the blanc-manger begins to congeal; then let it rest. When quite firm all through loosen it in the moulds by slipping a knife beneath the edge of the blanc-manger, warm a clean cloth, and lay it a minute over the top. This will render it easy to turn out; or you may loosen the blanc-manger by setting the mould in a pan of lukewarm water. Turn it out into a glass dish. Lay on the top of the blanc-manger a sufficient number of whole macaroons, handsomely arranged in a large star or in a circle, and jAace another circle on the dish round the bottom. MACAROON CUSTARD PUDDING. Fill the bottom of a dish with macaroons, soak them in white wine, and pour over them a custard made of twenty eggs, a pint and a half of cream, and a pint of new milk, with the addition of such sweetmeats as may be agreeable. The dish may be lined with puff paste, but care must be taken that it is not baked too much. MACAROON TART. Cement together as many sheets of wafer paper as will be sufficient to cut a pie the size of a dish ; spread over its surface sweet macarc^on paste about a quarter of an inch thick ; on this place a border of almond- shaped macaroons round the edge, then lay them in diagonal lines over the whole, and cross these again so as to form a trellis over the surface taking care to make the points touch neatly. When the whole is covered put it on a tin in a moderate oven, and bake it three quarters of an hour ; then take it out, and garnish the spaces between the macaroons with various preserved fruits. MACAROONS. Take 1 lb. of sweet almonds, blanched and nicely pounded; add a little rose water to prevent them from oiling, and 1 lb. of sifted sugar ; then whisk the whites of ten eggs to a'solid froth, add them to the above, and beat the whole together for some time. Have ready wafer paper on tin plates, and drop the mixture over it separately the size of a shilling, or smaller; sift over them a little sugar, and bake them. MACAROONS, CHOCOLATE. Blanch i lb. of shelled sweet almonds by scalding them with boiling water till the skin peels olf easily ; then throw them into a bowl of cold water, and let them stand awhile ; take them out, wipe them separately, and afterwards set them in a warm place to dr}^ thoroughly. Put them one at a time into a marble mortar, and pound them to a smooth paste, moistening them as you proceed with a few drops of rose water to pre- vent them from oiling. When 3'ou have pounded one or two take them out of the mortar with a tea-spoon, put them into a deep plate beside you, and continue removing the almonds to the plate till they are all done. Scrape down as fine as possible ^ lb. of the best chocolate, mix it thoroughly with the pounded almonds, and then set the plate in a cool place. Put the white of eight eggs into a shallow pan, and beat them to a stiff froth that will stand alone ; have ready 1|- lb. of finely powdered loaf sugar, and stir it hard into the beaten whites of eggs a spoonful at a time; then stir in gradually the mixture of almonds and chocolate, and beat up the whole very hard. Drop the mixture in equal portions upon thin white paper laid on square tin pans, smoothing them with a spoon into round cakes about the size of a half-dollar; dredge the top of each lightly with powder sugar, set them in a quick oven, and bake them a light brown. When done take them off the paper. MACAROONS, FILLED. Take some sweet macaroon paste, and lay the cakes on wafer paper quite round. When all are done have a round stick about an inch in diameter, and make a hollow in the centre of each. Bake them, as usual, till j'ellow and crisp ; then take them out, put in the hollows preserved chenies, raspberries, or some jelly, and, instead of detach- ing the macaroons from the paper, cut it closely round the edges. MACAROONS, LEMON. Take four large lemons, and rub off the yellow surface of the rind upon a lump of sugar; then powder the sugar, and add to it not quite 1 lb. of loaf sugar already powdered. Break four eggs into a shallow pan, and beat them till very thick and light; then add the juice of the lemons squeezed through a strainer, a tea-spoonful of powdered nutmeg and cinnamon, and stir in the sugar a little at a time alternately with three large heaped table-spoonsful of sifted flour. A little more flom- may probably be fouud necessary. Mix the whole thoroughly, so as to form a soft paste. Have ready some shallow square baking pans, or sheets of iron, the bottoms covered with white paper laid smoothly in; moisten your hands with water, take up portions of the mixture, and roll them into balls about the size of a large plum, la}'ing tiiem as