[ 382 1 BAT RAD them; strew bread crumbs over, and brown tbem in the oven. EADISHES IN BROTH. Take some young radishes, pick and scald them, cut them in halves or quarters according to their size, and boil them with a slice of bacon in some stock. In a little time take them out, drain and put them into another stewpan, with con- somme or veal gravy, and a bit of butter I'olled in flour; let them stew gently in this till they are flavoured, of a good colour, and the sauce pretty thick; then serve them. RAGOUT OF GAME. Half roast the game, then divide into joints and pieces proper to help at table, and put them into a stewpan, with a pint and a half of broth, or as much water, any trimmings of meat you have, one large onion with cloves stuck in it, twelve berries of allspice, the same of black pepper, and a roll of lemon-peel. When it boils skim it perfectly clean; let it simmer very gently for about an hour and a quarter if a wild duck, but longer if a larger bird ; then strain off the liquor, and leave the duck by the fire to keep hot; skim the fat off; put into a clean stewpan 2 ozs. of butter, and when it is hot stir in as much flour as will make it a stiff paste; add the liquor by degrees, let it boil up, put in a glass of port wine and a little lemon juice, and simmer it ten minutes ; put the duck into the dish, and strain the sauce through a fine sieve over it. Garnish with sippets of toasted or fried bread. If the poultry is only half roasted, and stewed until just nicely tender, this will be an acceptable bonne louche to those who are fond of made dishes. The flavour may be varied by adding catsup, cuny powder, or any other of the flavoured vinegars. This is an easily prepared side dish, especially ■when you have a large dinner to dress, and coming to table ready carved saves a deal of time and trouble. It is, therefore, an excellent way of serving poultry. &c., for a large party. RAGOtT POWDER. Two ounces of trufH.es, two of dried mushrooms, the peel of a lemon, and the same of a Seville orange grated, half a grated nutmeg, |- oz. of mace, the same of pepper, and 1 drachm of Cayenne. Dry them all well before the fire, pound them to a 'fine powder, add 1 oz. of salt, sift the powder through a sieve, and keep it in a bottle for use. RAGOUT SPICE. See Spices. RAILROAD TRAVELLING. We commend these sensible hints to all our readers, only pre- mising that the middle carriage of the train, and the middle seat of the carriage, is the safest and easiest place :— It is alwaj-s desirable, not only to get to the station several minutes before the train starts, but to make for the carriages as soon as possible, in order to secure a seat with your back to the direction you intend to go. This is a very material point, particularly if you select the second-class carriage, because, with your face the other way, you are exposed to considerable inconvenience from the draught, productive of rheumatism, tooth, face, or earache, &c. Most persons loiter in the waiting-room until the last moment, and when they arrive at the carriages find all the desired seats occupied. Provide yourself with a programme, which you can procure either at the terminus or any of the booking-offices. This will keep you in- formed of the several stations that are suc- cessively reached. Have your ticket always ready at hand, in case you should be called on to produce it or render it up. Have the amount of your fare ready without the necessity for changing. Anything productive of delay should be avoided. Should your journey be a long one, and your intention be to travel by a first-class carriage, bring with you a travelling-cap, and hang jour hat up to the lines placed in the roof. Most persons are apt to doze ; and, if this is indulged in, your hat will be damaged. Should you be sitting in a back seat, and feel sleepy, by all means draw up the glass before you venture to close your eyes. Owing to the great velocity of railroad travelling the draught is always con siderable. Should you travel a long journey in a second- class carriage, it is advisable to take with you an air-cushion to sit on. On some of the lines the inferior carriages are made as uncomfortable as possible, in order to drive people to the first class. Never attempt to jump out in case of accidents occurring : by so doing you are certain to be greatly injured, and probably killed. In your seat you have a chance of escape. Avoid putting your head out of the window. RAIN WATER. We have found from ex- perience that in the south of England, and probably in all other parts, sufficient rain falls on the roof of a bouse to keep its inhabitants supplied with water throughout the year. We have it preserved in^a well, rendered waterproof by Roman cement: it is sixteen feet deep and four feet in diameter. The gutters round the roof of a detached house all communicate by a stack pipe with the well. The water remains perfectly sweet all the year. For the followiug sensible remarks on the subject we are indebted to the " Magazine of Domestic Economy : "— Rain water is valuable in every situation where it can be collected in sufficient abun- dance. In London and in large towns it is apt to be contaminated with soot; but from this