RAV I 389 ] r,ED K.WIGOTE WITH OIL. Miroe the ravigote, and put it into a saucepan, with a ladleful of cold veloute, salt, and whole pepper; stir it well to mix it thoroughly, add two ladles- ful of oil, and mix that well also; then pour in four or five dessert-spoonsful of vinegar, keep stirring it till very smooth, and the meat or fish salad be ready for it to be poured on. RAZOR. Much more information relative to this instrument of torture, if badly sharpened, will be found under the head Shaving. We will here only give a few directions for sharp- ening it. Much depends upon the manner in which the razor is managed. The hone, therefore, ought first to be wiped perfectly clean, after which a few drops of sweet oil must be poured on it. The operator should next place his thumb and forefinger sideways on the part of the heel, in order to take firm hold both of the blade and of its handle : one side of the razor is next to be laid flat across the hone, in such a manner that its shoulder, or the part contiguous to the heel, may touch the nearest part of the stone. The razor is now drawn towards the person somewhat circularly, and with a slight pressure, till he arrives at the point. When such side has been thus passed for a few times the opposite one is to be conducted in a similar manner, till the edge uniformly assumes a wiry appearance. Lastly, both sides are to be moved a few times across the hone from the heel to the point, in order that a perfect regularity may be produced in every part of the edge. The razor, being thus honed, must now be drawn obliquely, from the point to the heel, across a strop that is perfectly flat, and which is furnished with two leathers on the smoothing ; side : after this operation it is fit for immediate I use. It deserves, however, to be mentioned that those boasted powders, or unctuous prepara- I tions for giving a fine edge to razors, consist i! merely of red oxide of vitriol, which is spread [ on the strop by mixing it with a little oil or tallow. REALGAR. See Orpiment. RECEIPT. For all sums of or above two pounds a stamped receipt must be given. Whatever the sum of, or above that amount, the j) receipt stamp required is one penny. The date j of payment and the initials of the person re- II ceiving the money ought to be written on the jj stamp, if an adhesive one. A receipt at the i\ bottom of a bill should be in this form :— Received the above, December 28th, J858. John Nokes. The word " paid," which some payees write it the bottom of their bill, is not a receipt. The proper form of a legal receipt is as follows :— London, Deccmher ^Sth, 1BC8. Received of H. Styles the sum of ten pounds for goods as per account delivered. John Nokes. RED GUM consists of small red spots, usually confined to the face and neck, but in some cases extending to the hands and legs, and even over the whole body, appearing in large patches, and sometimes raised considerably above the surface. Now and then it shows itself in the form of small pustules, which are filled with a limpid, or sometimes with a purulent or yellow fluid. All that is generally necessary in this complaint is to give a little magnesia or some testaceous powder (powder of crabs' claws or oyster shells), according to the state of the bowels, and to keep the child moderately warm, to prevent the rash from striking in upon the first passages, which would be attended with sickness and purging, till perhaps the eruption appear again on the skin. Where the eruption is repelled, and when, in consequence of this, there is sickness at the stomach, or any disposition to fits, some light cordial, such as a few drops of the aromatic spirits of ammonia, wine, or brandy, may be given twice or thrice a day, and the child's feet, or perhaps the whole body, put into warm water. Care is necessary to prevent eruptions from being driven inwards, and, whenever this is the case, by all means to effect their re-appearance. There is another eruption, known by the name of milk blotches, which often puts on a very unpleasant appearance, but which, never- theless, is of an innocent nature ; and it has been observed that those who have been much loaded with them have usually been healthy, and have cut their teeth easily. These, however long they may continue, never excoriate or leave any scar on the parts. They appear first on the forehead, and sometimes on the scalp; and then often extend half way over the face, in the form of large loose scabs, which, as the disorder increases, appear not unlike the dried pustules of the small pox. The rash generally disappears of itself when the child has cut three or four teeth. There are other eruptions to which children are subject, occasioned probably by the irritation of teething, particularly while the double and eye teeth are cutting. These, with some excep- tions, as when there is much fever, only require a proper attention to be paid to the state of the bowels. See Dentition. A slight species of nettle rash is another , eruptive disease to which infants are liable, which in general requires little attention, as it often disappears in a few hours. In all eruptive complaints of infants their taking cold ought to be carefully guarded against, and the belly should be kept open; and, when- ever the eruption strikes inwardly, every means