POR POR [ 349 ] Be careful of the crackling that it be crisp, and not burned. Pickled pork takes more time for boiling than any other meat. If you buy your pork ready salted, ask how many days it has been in salt: if many, it will require to be soaked in water for six. hours before you dress it. When you cook it wash and scrape it as clean as possible. When delicately dressed it is a favourite dish with almost everybody. Take care it does not boil fast; if it does, the knuckle will break to pieces before the thick part of the meat is warmed through. A leg of 7 lbs. should simmer very slowly three hours and a half. Skim your pot very carefully, and when you take the meat out of the boiler scrape it clean. A leg of pork nicely salted and nicely boiled is as fine a cold relish as cold ham, especially if, instead of cutting into the middle when hot, and so letting out its juices, you cut it at the knuckle: slices broiled are a good luncheon or supper. Some persons who sell pork ready salted have a silly trick of cutting the knuckle in two. We suppose this is done to save their salt; but it lets all the gravy out of the leg ; and unless you boil your pork merely for the sake of the pot liquor, which in this case receives all the goodness and strength of the meat, friendly reader, your oracle cautions you to buy no leg of pork which is slit at the knuckle. If pork is too much boiled it not only loses its colour and flavour, but its substance becomes soft like a jelly. It must never appear at table without parsnips (they ai'e an e.x.cellent vegetable, and deserve to be much more popular), or carrots, turnips, and greens, or mashed potatoes, &c. Do not forget the mustard- pot. PORK- To Ciioose. The meat is so pro- verbially, and we believe dangerously, unwhole- some when ill fed, or in any degree diseased, that its quality should be closely examined be- fore it is purchased. When not home fatted it should be bought, if possible, of some respect- able farmer or miller, unless the butcher who supplies it can be perfectly relied on. Both the fat and lean should be very white, the latter finely grained , the rind should be thin, smooth, and cool to the touch; if it be clammy the pork is stale, and should be at once rejected ; it ought also to be scrupulously avoided when the fat, instead of being quite clear of all blemish, is full of small kernels, whicli are indicative of dlSGflSG PORK, BLADE-BONE OF. It should be broiled, and when nearly done peppered and salted. Put to it a piece of butter and a tea- spoonful of mustard, and serve it very hot. The blade-bone is taken from the bacon hog : the less meat left on it, in moderation, the l)GttGr. PORK CHEESE. Take a pig's head, and having boned it, cut all the meat into rather thick slices ; do the same with the ears ; sepa- rate the fat from the lean, and mix the whole with bay leaf, thyme, basil, sage, parsley (all shred small), salt, pepper, nutmeg, and other spices, with the peel and juice of a lemon. Lay the skin of the head open over a salad bowl, arrange the pieces in it, intermixing with them a little leaf fat, tongue d Vicariate, and truffles. When all are put in wrap the skin round them, sew it up very tightly, and dress it as directed for Hog's Head. When sufficiently done take it from the fire, and whilst warm put it in a mould to give it any shape you may desire. PORK CHINE. Cut this piece as square as possible, and leave the fat on it an inch thick; score it, skewer it into proper form, and roast it for two hours. Serve it with tomato, piquant, or Robert sauce. PORK, CHINE OF (Roasted). The chine should be parted down the back-bone. Cut the rind in scores, lay the joint before a good clear fire, and when done (which, if it is 12 lbs. weight, will be in three hours) put gravy into the dish, and some sage round the edge. Serve as the preceding. Chines of pork are commonly salted and boiled. PORK, CHINE OF (Stuffed). Take a chine of pork that has been in piclde four or five days, cut some holes in the lean, and stuff it with a little of the leaf fat chopped extremely small, some parsley, thyme, a small quantity of sage, and shallots, cut very fine, and seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. It should be stuffed pretty thickly, and served with good gravy in the dish. Apple sauce and potatoes should be served with it. PORK CHITTERLINGS. Take the fat guts of a pig, wash and cut them into such loigths as you may desire, and then put them into vinegar and water, with thyme, bay leaf, and basil, for twelve hours, after which chop up a part of the above, some fresh pork and leaf fat, and season them with salt, pepper, four kinds of spices, and a little anise in powder; put these into the remaining guts so as to fill them about two-thirds, tie them up, and boil them in equal quantities of water and milk, to which add salt, thyme, basil, and bay leaf. When done leave them to cool in the liquor. They must be broiled before they are sent to the table. PORK CHOPS, BROILED. Broil them in the same manner as mutton chops, but they re(iuire more doing. Put a little good gravy to them, and strew over a little sage shred finely, which very much improves the flavour.