[ 253 ] NEW NIG perfectly into it Let it simmer on the side of the fire. NEW COLLEGE PUDDING. Grate the crumb of a stale twopenny loaf, add to it the same weight of beef suet shred, a grated nutmeg, a little salt, and 2 ozs. of currants; beat a few eggs in some sherry wine and sugar, mix the whole together, knead it into a paste, and let it stand a quarter of an hour, after which put it into the form and size of a turkey's egg, but flatter. Put 1 lb. of fresh butter in a dish over a clear fire or a stove, and rub the butter round till melted; then lay the puddings in it, and cover them, taking care to turn them often, that they may be all browned alike. When done serve them up hot as a side dish, with grated sugar. These puddings take their name from New College, Oxford, where they have been famous from time immemorial. NEW YEAR CAKE. Mix together 3 lbs. of flour, 1^ lb. of sugar, and f lb. of butter; dis- solve a tea-spoonful of bicarbonate of potass in enough new milk to wet the flour, mix them together, grate in a nutmeg or the peel of a lemon, roll it out, cut it in shapes, and bake. NEWSPAPERS. See Letters. NIGHT AIR. The perspiration is often obstructed by night air : even in summer this ought to be avoided. The dews which fall plentifully after the hottest day make the night more dangerous than when the weather's cool. Hence in warm countries the evening dews are more hurtful than where the climate is more temperate. It is very agreeable after a warm day to 1 o abroad in a cool evening; but this is a pleasure to be avoided by all who value their health. The effects of evening dews are gradual, indeed, and almost imperceptible ; but they are not the less to be dreaded : we would, therefore, advi; e travellers, labourers, and all who are much heated by day, carefully to avoid them.. When the perspiration has been great they become dangerous in proportion. By not attending to this, in flat marshy countries, where the exhak- tions and dews are copious, labourers are often seized with intermitting fevers, quinsies, and other dangerous diseases. NIGHT CAP, LADY'S. We are indebted to " The Magazine of Domestic Economy " for the following specimens and descriptions :— No. 1 is composed of four strips of lace or muslin insertion, cut of a sufficient length to fit the head, between each of which is placed a strip of muslin about three quarters of a yard in length, and from an inch and a half to two inches in width at the upper or widest part, they being a little narrower at the ends, so as to fit the head. The insertion should either be lined or corded on each side, the first method being the strongest. If it be adopted, the pieces of muslin which are to form the cap may be whipped on both sides, and the half of eaci side sewed into half the insertion ; but if the latter plan be preferred, a fine cord must be covered with muslin, and tacked on each side of the insertion; the pieces of muslin for the cap must in this case be gathered (a little more than the eighth of an inch within the raw edge), instead of being whipped, and sewed to the corded insertion by means of a stitch and back- stitch. The raw edges on the inside must be 2 J neatly overcast. The strips of muslin for this cap are generally cut the cross-way. The back is formed by a horseshoe. In all cases where insertion is used it may be lined with a strip of the best French gingham of some delicate colour: this washes well with the cap, and looks as well as ribbon. No. 2 is a very snug cap. The head-piece is formed of one piece of muslin, the horseshoe caul of another; both pieces to be cut suffi- ciently long and wide to admit of their being