LAM LAM [ 119 ] seasoning it to the palate. Lay in soaked crusts as usual, and garnish the dish with orange and pieces of liver, cut handsomely and laid inter- changeably. LAMB'S HEAD, STEWED. Take out the bi ains, and make a farce of them ; boil it, and when cold cut it in pieces; then mince some lamb and beef suet together with the brains, and add some grated bread; season with salt, pepper, and sweet herbs minced small, and add four or five raw eggs. Fill the lamb's head with these, then put it into a stewpan, and let it stew with some good stock. Make the remainder of the mince meat into balls, and serve with the stewed head. LAMB'S HEAD, STUFFED. Soak the head well in boiling water, and then put it on the fire till half done; take out all the bones and the brains, make a farce with streaked bacon, fat livers, the tongue, brains, and morels, all minced very small, and united with veal; put this farce i into the head, bread it all over, and put it into a mild oven. When it is of a nice colour take it out, and serve it quite hot with veal gravy. LAMBS' TAILS. Braise or boil the tails, and make a light batter of flour, one egg, a little salt, white wine, and a little oil; fry them of a nice brown colour, and serve them, gar- nished with fried parsley. You may serve them with what sauce you think proper. LAMPREY, BROILED (1). Wash it very clean in warm water, cut it into pieces, melt some butter, and roll the fish in it; make a seasoning with bread crumbs grated, some pepper, salt, nutmeg, and sweet herbs chopped finely. After the fish has been well rubbed in the butter dip it into the seasoning, and broil it over a clear, gentle fire. LAMPREY, BROILED (2). Cut a lamprey into three pieces, and put them into a pan, with white and I'ed wine, a little butter, whole pep- per, salt, sliced onions, carrots, parsnips, thyme, a bay leaf, and cloves. Before the fish is quite done drain and dip it in butter, cover it with bread crumbs, broil it slowly, and baste it with oil or butter. Serve it dry. LAMPREY A L'lTALIENNE. Put two onions chopped very small into a stewpan, with a piece of butter, a spoonful or two of oil, a bu ch of sweet herbs, two cloves of spice, two of garlic, the fish cut in pieces, the blood, and half a p-nt of red wine. Set these on a brisk fire, and boil till the liquor is reduced; take out the herbs, and then keep it on till done. Squeeze le on iuice over, and serve. LAMPREY, STEWED. Clean the fish very carefully, remove the cartilage which runs down the back, and season with a few cloves, mace, nutmeg, pepper, and allspice; put it into a small stewpan, with very strong beef gravy, port, and an equal quantity of Madeira or sherry; cover it closely, and let it stew till tender; then take out the lamprey, and keep it hot while you boil up the liquor with two or three chopped anchovies, and some flour and butter; strain the gravy through a sieve, and add lemon juice and some made mustard. Serve with sippets of bread and horseradish. LAMPREYS. The lamprey is a species of eel, but thicker, shorter, and less brown than that fish. They are seldom to be had in Lon- don, and are not very plentiful in any part of England. They should be chosen fat, and are generally cooked in the same manner as eels. LAMPREYS : To Pot. Scald and scrape them; take out the insides, especially the black string; season with pepper, salt, and mace; put them into a pan, and bake them in a slow oven. When they are done take them out of the gravy, put them into a clean pan, and cover them with clarified butter. LAMPREYS, FRIED. Cut off the heads, and save the blood that runs from them ; then wash them well in warm water, dry them in a cloth, fry them in a little fresh butter till half done, pour off the fat, and put in a little white wine ; shake the pan round, and put in a little whole pepper, nutmeg, salt, sweet herbs, a bay leaf, a few capers, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and the blood. Shake the pan round frequently, and cover it closely. When they are done take them out, strain off the sauce, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and pour it over the fish. LAMPREYS, FRIED (with Capers). Get fresh lampreys full of life, and not such as have been kept out of water till they can scarcely stir, for this makes them good for little. Bleed them and save the blood ; then make some water scalding hot, and throw in a little salt; pour it into a pan, and put in the lampreys to clean them; rub and wash them thoroughly to get off their slime ; then cut them into pieces, wash them over again, and dry them in a napkin. When this is done set on a stew- pan with some clarified butter, adding a little flour, some pepper and salt, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a bay leaf; grate in a little nutmeg, and, last of all, pour in a glass of white wine. Put in the pieces of lamprey, and fry them care fully. When they are pretty well done take out the herbs, and put in the blood; add at the same time two spoonsful of chopped capers, and then thicken all up. Heat a dish, pour in the whole together, and serve it up hot. LAMPS. (See Argand Lamp and Gas.) These are very various in form ; but, so far as the shape of the burner is concerned for giving the most light, none excel that of the Argand. The