HON [ 44 ] HOO The sjTup which still adheres to the coal and Jther materials may be separated as follows :— Pour boiling water on them until they no longer retain any sweetness, then put these different waters together, and set them over a large fire to evaporate till the syrup only remains. This syrup contracts the flavour of barley sugar, and must not be added to the clarified honey. HONEY OF BORAX. See Bobax. HONEY CAKE. Mix a quart of strained honey with ^ lb. of powdered white sugar, \ lb. of fresh butter, and the juice of two oranges or lemons. Warm these ingredients slightly, just enough to soften the butter, and then stir the mixture very hard, adding a grated nutmeg. Mix in gradually 2 lbs. or less of sifted flour, make it into a dough just stiff enough to roll out easily, and beat it well all over with a rolling pin ; then roll it out into a large sheet half an inch thick, cut it into round cakes with the top of a tumbler dipped frequently in flour, lay them in shallow tin pans slightly buttered, and bake them well. HONEY OF ROSES. Infuse 4 ozs. of the dried buds of red roses for six hours in a little distilled boiling water, mix 5 lbs. of clarified honey into the strained liquor, and boil it to a syrup. Violets, gilliflowers, &c., are done iu the same way. HONEY WATER. Put two drachms of tincture of ambergris, and as much tincture of musk, in a quart of rectified spirits of wine and half a pint of water; filter it, and put it into small bottles. HONEYCOMB CREAM. Put the grated peei of two lemons into a china dish, and squeeze in the juice of three; add | lb. of sifted sugar and a pint of white wine, and mix well together in the dish it is to be served in. Make a pint of cream scalding hot, but not boiling, put it into a jug with a spout, and pour it from the greatest possible height. Let it be done the day before it is required. HONEYCOMB, LEMON. Sweeten the juice of a lemon to your taste, and put it into a dish ; mix the white of an egg that has been beaten with a pint of rich cream and a little sugar, whisk it, and as the froth rises lay it on the juice. It must be prepared the day before it is used. HONEYED MULBERRY. Strain a pint of mulberry or any other juice, and add to it 1^ lb. of clarified honey; reduce it to two-thirds, skim- ming it carefully; pot and cover it as other preserves. HOOPER'S FEMALE PILLS. Barbadoes aroes, 4 ozs.; dried sulphate of iron, 1 oz. ; ex- tract of black hellebore, 1 oz. ; canella powder, \ oz.; ginger powdered, ^ oz.; water sufl&cient to form a mass fit for making into pills. Divide into 2^.-grain pills. HOOPING COUGH, or Chincough. The danger of hooping cough is always greater the younger the patient happens to be. An infant, therefore, of a few weeks or months old, has but little chance of escape, because it has not strength to stand through the fits, nor sense to make efforts to get rid of the suffocating phlegm, and convulsions, apoplexy, ruptures, and inflammation of the brain often succeed. On the same principle it is also more dangerous in weakly children than in the robust. When there is much feverish heat and difficulty of breathing, with little discharge of phlegm after the fit, and when the fit exhausts the patient much, and leaves him breathless or fatigued, it is a bad sign, and danger may be apprehended. When death is approaching the feet are observed to swell. In stout children above two or three years of age there is seldom much danger if the appetite continues good. Voracious appetite, indeed, is one of the symptoms of the disease, and ought to be but sparingly indulged. When the hands and feet are not chilly, the skin comfortably warm and moist, the bowels open, the urine copious, easy and abundant expectoration, and free vomiting, or moderate bleeding from the nose, at the end of the fit, the patient may be said to be in a favourable state. These signs of safety, we may remark, afford good hints for the proper treatment of the disease. Much discharge of blood or sulphur-coloured phlegm is unfavourable, and will require active measures to prevent danger. Roche's embrocation is the most extensively used of all the hooping-cough nostrums, and it nas one advantage—it is a safe preparation. As it is very expensive we shall put it in the power of such of our readers as choose to employ it to make it at an easy price. But we must tell you that, though safe, it has but small efficacy, and can do little good beyond making the skin somewhat red. and that can be done much more easily with a little scraped horse- radish or table mustard spread on the chest, and left on for fifteen or twenty minutes. We do not say it is of no use to make the skin red; it is certainly beneficial, by drawing the inward inflammation to the skin ; but if you depend on the embrocation the effect of this will be trifling indeed. The expense, on the contrai"y, leads you to expect it to prove quite miraculous, though, like the parents who are at great expense in procuring masters to cram and pamper their children with all sorts of learning, you will find that your money has been worse than thrown away. Roche's embrocation for hooping cough. Take oil of amber, 1 oz.; olive oil, 2 ozs. Mix. and scent it strongly with oil of cloves. Keep it iu