[ 453 ] SOU SOR into the hospitals. When the surgeon goes round the hospital on the first day after the taking in, he will meet with a number of persons with inflamed ulcers on their legs; and what is the character of these sores ? You know that there is a serous discharge from these wounds, a bloody ichor, composed of serum and the red particles of the blood, a disposition in many cases to slough, the surface being covered with a brown incrustation, and the skin and surrounding parts are highly inflamed. Well, then, you will find that the same treatment which is applicable to inflammation in general will be of service in these cases, where inflamma- tion has been kept up for a long time to a high degree. Rest must be enjoined: the patient must also keep in bed in the recumbent posture. Fomentations and poultices must be employed. Fomentations will tend to produce a secretion from the part, and poultices, by their soothing quality, to promote the growth of granulations : both will evacuate the matter from the wounds. Then, with these applica- tions, the vessels begin to form, the sore assumes a better appearance, healthy secretions are thrown out, and granulations shoot up; fibrous matter is deposited, and in a little while you will have the skin covering the wound. Fomenta- tion, poultice, lest, and the recumbent posture must be enjoined, and the patient must be purged. The best cathartic that you can ad- minister is calomel and compound extract of colocynth, 5 grains of each, at bedtime, and a draught of the infusion of senna and sulphate of magnesia on the following moi-ning: by this plan you will do more to subdue the inflamma- tion than by any other we know. If the part in the neighbourhood be much inflamed, leeches had better be applied near the circumference of the ulcer: with this treatment in a very few days granulations will spring up, pus will be secreted, and the surrounding edges will assume a healthy appearance. Without, however, attending to the constitutional treatment, all your local applications will be of very little avail. SORREL A LA BOURGEOISE. Pick and wash as much sorrel as you want, drain and squeeze all the water from it, put it into a saucepan, and set it on the fire. When the sorrel is dissolved, if there be too much water put it into a cullender, and then fry it lightly in a little butter. Put two spoonsful of flour into a basin, beat an egg up with it, add another egg, and when that is well beaten with the flour pour in a glass of milk ; then mix it with the sorrel, set it on the fire, and stir it till it has boiled a quarter of an houi\ Dish it, and serve with either poached or hard eggs. SORREL, OMELET OF, Pick, wash, and blanch some soiTel; cut it in pieces, and fry it lightly in a little butter, with shred parsley and scallions ; then put the sorrel into a saucepan, with a little cream; season, and let it boil slowly. In the meantime make an omelet in the usual way, lay it on a dish, thicken the sorrel with the yolks of two eggs, pour it on the omelet, and serve it very hot. SORREL SAUCE. Wash and pick a quantity of sorrel, and put it into a saucepan, with a piece of butter the size of an egg; cover it closely, and set it on a slow fire for a quarter of an hour; pass the sorrel through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon, and season with pepper, salt, and a little powder sugar; make it hot, and serve it up under lamb, veal, or sweetbreads. Cayenne pepper, nutmeg, and lemon juice may be added. SORREL SOUP. Pick from the stalk;; and well wash in several waters two pecks of young sorrel; then squeeze it well to drain the water from it, and set it to stew on a slow fire, with nearly ^ lb. of butter, till done; drain it for two minutes on a hair sieve, and put it again in a stewpan, with a small bit of butter, on a slow fire. When the butter is melted add half a pint of consomme: when nearly reduced add another, and then seven or eight spoonsful of plain sauce. When all is well boiled together rub it through a tammy, and add a quart of consomme while you pass it; let it boil very gently two hours before the dinner, and add six eggs and half a pint of cream, mixed together as for other soups. Put this in the minute before it is served up, and if it should not be strong enough to your palate boil down some beef stock, and mix with it. SORREL, STEWED. Sorrel may be stewed alone, as in the preceding article; but another way is to put it, after washing, in a silver vessel or stone jar, with as much water as will hang on the leaves ; simmer it slowly, and when done put in a bit of butter, and beat it well. SOUBISE. Make a puree of onions as directed in Sauce Robert, set it on the fire, and when dissolved add four ladlesful of veloute, a quart of cream, and a piece of sugar the size of a walnut; keep it constantly stirring over a brisk fire till thick, then strain it through a bolter, and serve. SOUFFLE, FRENCH. Make a croustado eleven inches in diameter, and three quarters of an inch in height; put round it three sheets of battei'ed paper, and bake it. Take twelve glasses of boiling milk, in which infuse whatever ingredients you may think proper, such as vanilla, colTee, orange flowers, &c.: the propor- tions will be found under the different articles. In the meantime wash 1 lb. of rice thoroughly in warm water, then put it into a saucepan