RAN RAM [ 385 ] The sun or Lloom raisins generally keep better than the muscatel, and it is, therei'ore, this description which is sent to India. 3. The Lexia raisins are packed in casks or grass mats, called " frails.^' These raisins are of an inferior kind, and require to be dipped in a lye (lexia) of wood ashes, with a little oil, before drying. The raisins in boxes are partly bloom or sun, but principally muscatel. The barrels and frails are chiefly lexias. There are also Denia raisins, Valencia raisins, Belvidere raisins. Sultana raisins, UvcB apyrena (small, yellowish red, without stones), hlack Smyrna raisins, red Smyrna raisins. East Indian raisins (Kishmish, from the small Schiraz grapes). All these dried grapes are used for food, or fermented with water and made into wine. Rape vinacea is the cake left on pressing grapes : it is fermented with water, and distilled for brandy. RAMAKINS. Stew some Parmesan cheese ; then bruise it with some fresh butter, a little water, salt, and an anchovy; boil the whole well, and add as much flour as will make a paste; put this into another pan, with the yolks of twelve eggs; beat up the whites till stiff, and put them to the rest. Fry them until they are brown. RANCIDITY, whether in butter, lard, or other fatty article, arises from its having absorbed oxygen from the air, and thence forming a peculiar acid called the caproic, so named from its resembling in .smell that emitted by the buck-goat (caper). It is worth knowing that soft fats become rancid by exposure to the air much more quickly than do solid fats. Hard butter continues sweet longer than soft butter; and the suety fat of salted beef remains un- tainted a much greater length of time than the soft-fatted parts. All fatty and oily substances may be kept free from rancidity for almost any length of time if the air be totally excluded from them. RANK. In formal dinner parties attention is needed as to the precedence given to the guests, as some are excessively tenacious on this point. Before giving a table of precedence it is necessary to observe that the elder pre- cedes the younger in those of equal rank ; that ladies of all ranks are served before their husbands; that married ladies precede widows, and widows precede spinsters; and that strangers are served first, and the young ladies of the family last. 1. Sovereign's sons 2. Sovereign's brothers 3. Sovereign's uncles 4. Sovereign's grandsons 5. Sovereign's nephews vox-. II. 6. Archbishop of Canterbuiy 7. Lord High Chancellor 8. Archbishop of York 9. Lord Treasurer ] 0. Lord President of the Privy Council 11. Lord Privy Seal 12. Lord High Constable 13. Lord Great Chamberlain of England 14. Earl Marshal 15. Lord High Admiral 16. Lord Steward of the Household 17. Dukes according to their patents 18. Marquises 19. Dukes' eldest sons 20. Earls 21. Marquises' eldest sons 22. Dukes' younger sons 23. Viscounts 24. Earls' eldest sons 25. Marquises' eldest sons / 26. Bishop of London 27. Bishop of Durham 28. Bishop of Winchester 29. Bishops according to their seniority of consecration 30. Barons 31. Speaker of the House of Commons 32. Viscounts' eldest sons 33. Earls' younger sons 34. Barons' eldest sons 35. Knights of the Garter 36. Privy councillors 37. Chancellor of the Exchequer 38. Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster 39. Lord Chief Justice of the Queen's Bench 40. The Master of the Rolls 41. The Vice-Chancellor 42. The Lord Chief Justice of the Common Pleas 43. Lord Chief Baron of the Exchequer 44. Judges and barons of the Exchequer according to seniority 45. Knights Bannerets Royal 46. Viscounts' younger sons 47. Barons' younger sons 48. Baronets 49. Knights Bannerets 50. Knights of the Bath Grand Crosses 51. Knights Commanders of the Bath 52. Knights Bachelors 53. Eldest sons of the eldest sons of peers 54. Baronets' eldest sons 55. Knights of the Garters' eldest sons 56. Bannerets' eldest sons 57. Knights of the Baths' eldest sons 58. Knights' eldest sons 59. Baronets' younger sons 60. Sergeants-at-law 61. Doctors, deans, and chancellors 62. Masters in Chancery 2 c