GRA r 4 ] GEE into round pieces with a circular paste cutter; lay half thfiir number in small moulds or tins, and put on each a ball of godiveau proportioned to the size of the petits j)ates; cover them with the remaining pieces, dorez, and bake them. When done open them, cut the godiveau into pieces, and pour into each some good gravy, in which are mushrooms cut into dice. This, however, must not be done until the feiits pates are to be sent to table. GRAVY FOR ROAST MEAT. About a quarter of an hour before the meat is taken from the fire put a common dish, with a tea- spoonful of salt in it, under the meat. When it has all run into the dish remove it, baste and froth the meat, and pour the gravy into the dish on which the roast is to be served. GRAVY OF ROOTS. Roast some onions and parsnips on hot ashes, clean and slice them into a stewpan, and when they give out a yellowish brown -juice moisten them with a glass of clear vegetable broth; boil them with a little salt, an onion, and a clove for a quarter of an hour ; then rub the gravy through a cloth or a sieve, and set it by for use. GRAVY SOUP. Take a leg of beef, and •well wash and soak it; break the bone, and put it into a saucepan, with a gallon of water, a large bunch of sweet herbs, two large onions sliced (and fried to a nice brown, taking great care that they are not burnt), two blades of mace, three cloves, twenty berries of allspice, and forty of black pepper. Stew till the soup is as rich as you wish it to be, and then take out the meat. When it is cold take off the fat, heat the soup with vermicelli, the nicest part of a head of celery boiled and cut into pieces, Cayenne, and a little salt. Carrot may be added, with turnip cut into small pieces, and boiled with spinach and endive ; or the herbs without the vermicelli, or vermicelli only ; add also a large spoonful of soy, and one of mushroom catsup. A French roll should be made hot, put into the soup till moist through, and served in the tureen. GRAVY, THICKENING FOR. Yor white thickening put 4 ozs. of fresh butter into a stew- pan over a clear fire. When it is melted stir in gradually with a wooden spoon eight table- spoonsful of flour till quite smooth, then put it into an earthen pan, and tie it over to keep. It should not be darker than cream. For brown thickening only six table-spoonsful of flour should be used with 4 ozs. of fresh butter. It should be made over a strong fire, and gradually browned lightly. If it burns or has dark specks it will make the sauce bitter. The usual proportion of thickening for gravy is from a table spoonful to a quart. GRAVY FOR VENISON. The best gravy for venison is made of the trimmings of the joint itself; but if these cannot be spared cut up a scrag of mutton, and broil the pieces till they are brown ; put them into a stewpan with a quart of boiling water, cover it closely, and simmer for an hour; then uncover the pan, and suffer the liquor to be reduced to three quarters of a pint; strain it through a hair sieve, take off the fat, season it with salt, and send the gi'avy to table. It may be coloured with a little browning. GREASE SPOTS. (See Appakel and Boards). To remove them from linen take a lump of magnesia, wet it, and rub the spots well with it. After awhile brush it off, when the spots will be found to be removed. To remove them from silJ( place a little pipe- clay or French chalk, finely powdered, upon a piece of writing paper, lay the greased part of the silk upon this powder, sprinkle some more of the powder upon the greased part, cover over it another piece of writing paper, and then iron it with a laundress's flat iron moderately heated. Magnesia answers as well as the French chalk. To remove them from ivool, first soak the wool in tepid water for an hour, and then take it out and wring it. Secondly, to every pound of wool dissolve l^^oz. of soap in one quart of boiling water; then add five quarts of water of a heat which the hand can just bear, plunge in it the washed wool, and let it soak half an hour. Thirdly, prepare a wash like the preceding, but entirely of boiling water, and soak the wool in it for about the same time. To avoid entangling the wool it must not be worked about in the water. When cold wash it in clear water, and a soft bright wool will bo obtained, free from grease and other impurities. The following are some general notes on the same subject:— Grease spots may be removed from woollen cloths by placing two or three folds of blotting paper over the spotted part, and holding a hot iron upon it until the paper has absorbed all the grease; but the following preparation will remove them effectually. The balls, which will keep any length of time, should be made up, and always kept ready in the house. Dry i lb. of fullers' earth so that it shall fall into powder, which moisten well with lemon juice; then add I" oz. of pearlash finely pulverised, and work up the whole into a thick paste ; roll this paste into small balls, which must be set in the sun, or at a little distance from the fire, to dry. When used the spots on the cloth should be moistened with warm water, and well rubbed with one of the balls. Put the cloth in the sun to dry, wash out the substance of the ball with cold water, or, if not in great quantity, brush it out. It will be found to have absorbed all the grease.