WAT W E A [ 553 ] in abundance to the sides of tea-kettles, and is commonly denomi?)ated rock. The purest water, and of course that which is the softest, is unquestionably the best, and ought to be preferred ; but soft water, with much vegetable or animal matter in a state of decomposition, is much less wholesome than hard spring water. Next to pure rain water, when to be obtained, the water of a rivulet which is in continual motion is perhaps the best. As a constant beverage with our food, water is unquestionably to be preferred to any other liquid ; nor have any cases been recorded in which the daily use of this fluid has been pro- ductive of detrimental effects. Pure water will keep for ages unaltered. It was, till modern chemistry demonstrated the contrary, supposed to be a simple body. Distilled water is ordered by the London College to be obtained thus :—Take ten gallons of water. First distil four pints, which are to be thrown away; then distil four gallons, and keep it in a glass bottle. By distillation the water is freed from various saline ingredients, and rendered nearly pure. The process should be conducted slowly, with a moderate degree of heat. We cannot conclude this article without entering our protest against the too common practice of conveying water by leaden pipes, and keeping it in leaden cisterns. Whatever may be the conveniences attendant on this mode of conveying and retaining so important a fluid, a consideration of the ease with which lead be- comes oxidated, and in that state more or less poisonous, ought to pi'ompt those who have more immediate influence in such affairs to discard the use of lead altogether. WATER IN THE CHEST. See Dropsy. WATER, CORDIAL. Infuse for a week the rinds of fifteen very sound lemons, \ oz. of cinnamon, and 4 ozs. of coriander seeds (crushed) iu a gallon and a half of brandy aiid a quart of water, and then distil it. Dissolve 3| lbs. of sugar in an equal quantity of pure river water, mix it with your liquor, and bottle it. WATER GRUEL: To Make. Take a spoon- ful and a half of fresh oatmeal, mi.x; with it gradually a quart of water, and set it on a clear fire. When just ready to boil take it oiT, and pour it backwards and forwards from one basin to another five or six times ; set it again on the fire till it is almost ready to boil, but before it comes to that point take it off, and let it stand to settle ; then strain it through a hair sieve, add a little salt, and set it to cool. WATER IN THE HEAD. See Be.un, Water on the. WATER, IMPERIAL. Put into a large jag or jar 2 ozs. of cream of tartar, with the juice of two lemons, and pour to these seven quarts of boiling water. When cold strain it through a fine sieve, sweeten, and bottle it. It is fit for use on the following day. WATER, SOUCHY. Thoroughly cleanse some perch or flounders; put them into a stew- pan with some cold water (sufficient for bi"oth), a very little white wine vinegar, and some salt, and let them boil gently for a quarter of an hour, carefully skimming. Serve them in the liquor they were boiled in; add to it some parsley roots neatly cut, trimmed, and ready boiled; strew over boiled parsley of a nice green, and serve bread and butter on a plate, to be eaten with the souchy. WATER-BRASH. This disorder generally attacks people of middle age, and more fre- quently females. Being a disease not much known, and seldom occurring, its causes have not been accui'ately ascertained, though low diet and emotions ofthe mind are enumerated amongst its causes. It is attended with a disagreeable pain at the stomach, with a sense of constriction, and a watery fluid escapes from the mouth, generally quite insipid in taste, and clear. It is very ti'oublesome and painful, though not fatal. The following will be beneficial in its removal:— Take submuriate of mercuiy, 2 grains ; anti- monial powder, 1 grain ; extract of colocynth, 10 grains; syrup of buckthorn, a sufficient quantity to form the mass, which is to be made into three pills, and taken at once. WATER-CLOSETS. To keep these devoid of unpleasant smells it is a good plan to rinse the pan out once daily with a weak solution of chloride of lime. See Bleaching. WATER-CRESSES, STEWED. Pick and wash twelve bunches of water-cresses ; let them be boiled till they are half done, take them out, and drain and squeezte them quite dry; then chop and put them into a stewpan ; add cullis, cream, salt, pepper, and flour, but only a small quantity of each ; let the whole stew gently ten minutes, and serve them to table with fried bread all round the dish. WATERPROOFING. See Boots, Caout- chouc, and Gutta Percha. WAX. See Sealing-Wax. WAX STAINS. Wax, spermaceti, and the composition candles let fiill drops of their melted material when carried about, or not held in a perfectly upright position. These wax stains may be instantaneously and entirely re- moved by laying over them a fold or two of dry blotting paper, and applying for a moment the pressure of a moderately hot, but not scorching, smoothing-ii'on. WEANING. It can never be necessary to continue the breast to a child for more than eight or nine months; but generallyi if a child