PEA [ 310 ] PEA to prevent the fruit from rising above the latter, and keep it all equally moist. PEACHES: To Preserve. Rub them gently, when not too ripe, with a cloth; run them down the seam with a needle skin deep, and cover them with good brandy; tie a blad- der over them, and let them stand a week ; then take them out and make a strong syrup, after which boil, skim, and put the peaches therein till they look clear, when they will be fit to be put into pots. Mix the syrup with the brandy, and when cold pour it on the fruit. Tie the pots over with bladder. PEACHES EN COMPOTE. Cut your peaches in half, take out the stones, and peel them ; then set them on the fire in a sugar-pan, with a sufficient quantity of clarified sugar to cover them, and let them simmer in this gently till done; then take them out in a basin, put the kernels into the sugar, and let it boil tolerably quick; put in the juice of two or three lemons, and pour the syrup over the peaches. Serve them in a deep hot dish. PEAR CREAM. Take twelve jargonelles or any other mellow pear; peel, core, and cut them in quarters ; put them in the tammy, and mash them well with a wooden spoon; then put to them a little clarified sugar (cold), the juice of three lemons, with isinglass as cool as it can be without settling; then rub the whole through a tammy, and immediately set it in several small moulds or one large one, with ice round it. PEAR ICE. Take any kind of pears you prefer; let them be quite ripe, and having pared and cut them into pieces, put them into a saucepan with a little water, and set them on the fire. When the fruit is quite soft rub it through a sieve; to each pound of the pulp put f lb. of sugar boiled to petite liase, and the juice of two lemons; mix them well, and freeze in the usual manner. PEAR TART. Peel your pears carefully, cut them into quarters, and take out the cores; if large and green boil them in a little water till soft, and simmer them in some rich syrup; line a dish with puff paste, lay in the pears with the syrup, cover, and bake. PEARL. A hard, white, glossy, and roundish concretion, which is usually found in the shell of the East Indian pearl oyster, though it is also occasionally met with in the shell fish of Europe. About the middle of the last century a very extensive fishery was carried on in the rivers communicating with lakes in the northern parts of Scotland, whence London was supplied with a considerable number of pearls that were little inferior to those of the East; but this source of wealth is at present exhausted. Pearls are formed of the same matter as the inner shell of the fish in which they are found, and consist of several coats spread with the greatest regularity over each other, in a manner similar to those of an onion. The most esteemed and true form of pearls is a complete sphere, though they are sometimes pear-shaped, and of a considerable size, according to which their value rises progressively, as they serve for ear- rings and other ornaments. They ought to possess a pure white lustre, perfectly clear from spots or stains, and their surface should be smooth and glossy, having a beautiful natural polish, which no art can improve. The finest pearls are imported from the East. Aetificial Peakls. As the genuine pearls are sold at an extravagant price, ingenious men have contrived methods of imitating them so completely that they can scarcely be distinguished from those collected in the East. The principal ingredient employed for tliis purpose remained a profound secret for many years, but it is now ascertained that it consists of the fine silvery matter which is found on the lower side of the scales of the blay, or bleak-fish (Cyprinus alhurnus, L.). These scales are first removed, then washed repeatedly in pure water, and, after the different liquors have subsided, the fluid part is carefully decanted, when a pea)ly matter of an oily consistence remains at the bottom, which is denominated by the French essence d'Orient. A small portion of this matter is dropped in a hollow, bluish glass bead; that is gently agitated till the whole internal surface is completely lined, when the cavity is filled up with wax, in order to impart solidity and weight. Pearls thus manufactured possess fewer blemishes than such as are natural or genuine, to which they are fully equal in point oif brilliancy. PEARL BARLEY. Sec Barley. PEARL DENTIFRICE. Precipitated ciialk, 4 ozs. ; talc finely powdered, 2 ozs.; Chinese blue, 1 or 2 grains, just to give a tint. PEARL WI-llTE, or Pearl Powder. See Cosmetics. PEARLASH is impure Potash, which see. PEARS. To Compound. Take twelve large pears, and codle them ; when tender take them out, and lay them in cold water; pare and cut them in halves, take out the cores, and put them in syrup made thus :—2i lbs. of sugar to three pints of water; a little lemon-peel, pared very thin and boiled in them; and a little cochineal, bruised and put in a muslin bag. Cover them, boil them quickly till they are tender and of a good colour, and when cold squeeze in the juico of two or three lemons. PEARS, BAKED. Take six fine pears; peel, cut them in halves, and take out the cores; put them into a pan, with a little red wine, a few