[ 211 ] MIL MIL The converse of this experiment -was not repeated from want of the requisite conveniences at the time; hut there is no doubt that, were milli placed in a vessel filled with mephitic gas, the acidification of the milk would be retarded, and the separation of the cream would conse- quently be postponed. However this may be, it is a certain fact that neither cream nor butter can be obtained from milk until some portion of acid be produced in it; and hence it is that, when fanciful people attempt to chum milk newly drawn from the cow, the operation must be continued till the acid is generated, and the churning must be protracted much longer than would have been necessary under other circumstances, which invariably impairs the quality of the butter. Now, since nothing tends so much to deteriorate the quality of cheese as acidity in the milk from which it is made, it must follow that, when cream is sepa- rated from it in the usual way for making butter, the milk must have attained such a degree of acidity as to prove highly detrimental. It must, therefore, be an injurious practice to make butter in a cheese dairy after the usual manner, but not if it be made conformably to the practice above recommended. The preceding hints are offered merely to show the curiam in what way the finest butter possible may be made, for few persons, perhaps, could be found who would be willing to purchase such butter at such a price as would indemnify any dairy owner for the extraordinary trouble he must incur in making it; but, for an ordinary market, experience has convinced us that if, in general, about half the milk be separated at each milking, and the remainder only be set up for producing cream, and if that milk be allowed to stand to throw up the whole of its cream, even till the milk tastes perceptibly sourish, and if that cream be afterwards carefully managed, the cream thus obtained will be of a quality greatly superior to that usually obtained at market, and its quantity will not he materially less than if the whole of the milk had been set apart for procuring cream. Such is the practice we would recommend as most likely to suit the frugal farmer; for his butter, though of a superior quality, could be afforded at a price which would always insure it a rapid sale. Another advantage would result from this practice, which might in some cases prove highly beneficial, namely, that, by adopting it, the careful dairy-maid may obviate some particular tastes with which milk is liable to be affected, and by which the butter will consequently be deteriorated, as will appear from the following fact:— In the course of the experiments on milk above alluded to, it was perceived that the milk from one cow tasted exactly as if salt had been put into it. Inquiry being made into the cause of this peculiarity, it appeared that the cow in question had missed calf that season, and was continued in milk the whole year. The author was farther informed that a saline taste was frequently perceptible in milk of this kind ; and, on tasting some of the last-drawn milk of the same cow, he found it perfectly sweet, while the milk of the first-drawn cup was extremely salt. In order to ascertain how much of the milk was affected with that saline taste, he caused the whole of the milk to be drawn from the cow into tea-cups, one after the other; and, having examined them in the order in which they were drawn, he found the milk contained in the first cup to possess the most saline taste, which gradually diminished in every succeeding cup till about the middle, when it totally disappeared. MILK. (See Dairy.) As the milk of animals contains more cream than that of the human breast, it ought to be diluted with water when given to infants. It combinea both saccharine and oily particles, and is a very serviceable ai'ticle of diet in a putrescent state of the blood, in inveterate ulcers, and in the scurvy. It is well calculated to assuage rigidity, cramps, and pains, being a diluent and attenuating remedy, especially in the state of whey; it promotes perspiration and evacua- tion in general, and is highly beneficial in spitting of blood, hysterics, hypochondriasis, dysentery, inveterate coughs, convulsive affec- tions, the putrid sore throat, and in complaints arising from worms. Milk is also used for fomentations, baths, emollient injections, and washes for inflamed or sore parts. If intended as a medicine it should be drunk immediately, or soon after it comes from the cow, because through boiling, and even by long standing, the best and most nutritious halsamic particles evaporate. The milk to be employed for diet in diseases ought to be taken from healthy and well- nourished animals ; for we see in children how much depends on the health of the mother, and how suddenly they suffer from an unhealthy or passionate nurse. In spring and summer the milk is peculiarly good and wholesome, on account of the salubrious nourishment of the herbs. In winter it is much inferior. It is further necessary tha,t the animal furnishing the milk should be kept in the free air, and have daily exercise. In order to obtain good milk it would be advisable, for private families who have the opportunity, to keep a cow; for, besides the adulteration of that which is sold, cows are frequently milked at an improper time, by which the milk is much injured, and cannot be wholesome.