[ 333 ] PIS PIN PINK DYE. Tie safflower in a bag, and wash it in water till it no longer colours the waters ; then dry it; of this dried matter take 2 drachms; salt of tartar, 18 grains; spirit of wine, 7 drachms. Digest for two hours more, and add distilled vinegar or lemon juice, enough to reduce it to a fine rose colour. Used as a cosmetic, to make French rouge, and to dye silk stockings. PINK RATAFIA. Take a gallon and a ' half of brandy, a quart of clear river water, 3 lbs. of sugar, 2 lbs. of I'ed pink flowers, and 1 drachm of cloves; remove all the inferior parts of the flowers, and infuse the rest with the cloves in the brandy for two months, when strain it through a linen cloth; dissolve the sugar in the water, and then mix it with the brandy; filter and bottle it. PINS are made of brass wire. When the wire is received at the manufactory it is wound ofl" from one wheel to another, and passed through a circle of a smaller diameter in a piece of iron. When reduced to its proper size it is straightened by drawing it between iron pins, fixed in a board in a zigzag manner. It is afterwards cut into lengths of about four yards, and then into smaller pieces, every length being sufficient for six pins. Each end of these is ground to a point. This operation is performed by boys, each of whom sits with two small grindstones before him turned by a wheel. Taking up a handful, he applies the wires to the coarsest of the two stones, moving them round that the points may not become flat: he then gives them a smoother and sharper point on the other stone. A lad of twelve years of age can point 16,000 in an hour. When the wire is pointed a pin is taken off from each end till it is cut into six ■ pieces. The next operation is to form the heads, or head-spinning as it is termed. This is done by a spinning-wheel: one piece of wire is with rapidity wound round another, and the in- terior one being drawn out, leaves a hollow tube between the circumvolutions. It is then cut, every two turns of the wire forming one head. These are softened by throwing them into iron pans, and placing them in a furnace till they are red-hot. As soon as they are cold they are distributed to children, who sit with anvils and hammers before them. These they work with their feet by means of a lathe. They take up one of the lengths, and thrust the blunt end into a quantity of the heads which lie before them. Catching one at the extremity, they apply it immediately to the anvil and hammer, and, by a motion or two of the foot, the point and, the head are fixed to- gether in much less time than can be described, and with a dexterity that can only be acquired by practice. The pins are thrown into a copper, containing a solution of tin and wine lees. Here they remain for some time, and when taken out assume a dull white appeai'ance. In order to give them a polish they are put into a tub con- taining a quantity of bran, which is set in motion by turning a shaft that runs through its centre, and thus, by means of friction, the pins become entirely bright. They are now sepa- rated from the bran, which is performed by a mode exactly similar to the winnowing of corn, the bran flying off, and leaving the pin behind fit for sale. All the processes employed in the art of pin- making, if added together for one pin, would occupy rather more than seven hours and a half of time; yet by the division of labour, and by making so many at the same time, it is possible to manufacture them with profit for the small price at which they are sold. The most ingenious machinery for the manu- facture of pins is that patented by Mr. Wright, of Wellclose Square, London: by this the whole of the above processes are performed without the assistance of any manual labour; and it has been stated that if all the establish- ment was at full work, it could supply the con- sumption of the whole kingdom, estimated at 16,000,000 per day. Tlie various sizes of common pins as they are found at the haberdashers', are—Lillskins, short whites, gilt short whites, gilt middlings, gilt corkings. These are made up in papers. Pound pins are sold by weight in sorted sizes or not. Lace pins are very long and slender, for fixing anything on to lace. Black pins, and white pins with black heads, are of various sizes. A new pin has lately been patented by Taylor and Co., which has the head made out of the same wire as the body of the pin, nor put on, as is the case with common pins. The patent pins made by Durnford and Co. are much superior to the common pins, being of stiffer wire, and having the heads flat and better fixed on : their stiffness makes them much more agreeable to use. They are not retailed in less than sixpenny papers. PIPE. This is a cask for wine and other things measured by wine measure. It is usually reckoned two hogsheads, or 126 gallons ; but in commerce the pipe measures differently as follows :—The pipe of port wine is 138 gallons, Madeira is 110, Vidonia is 120, Sherry is 130, Lisbon and Bucellas is 140. The pipe of port is seldom accurately 138 gallons, and it is customary in trade to charge what the cask actually contains, be it more or less than the estimated quantity. PISTACHIO BISCUITS. Take lib. of