S AU C ] S AU orange or a lemon, and season it -with Cayenne pepper and salt. SAUCE ASHfiE. Chop very small some pickled cucumbers, capers, parsley, shallots, the breast of a boiled fowl, some lean ham, carrots, whites and yolks of eggs, a good seasoned cuUis, and a little mushroom catsup: simmer the whole together a quarter of an hour. SAUCE, BROWN. Take 1 lb. or 2 lbs. of steaks, 2 lbs. or 3 lbs. of veal, some pickings of fowls, carrots, and onions; put all these into a saucepan with a glass of water, and set it on a brisk fire. When scarcely any moisture remains put it on a slow fire, that the jelly may take colour without burning, and as soon as it is brown moisten it with stock or water; add a bunch of parsley and green onions, two bay leaves, two cloves, and some champignons; salt it well, and set it on the fire for three hours; then strain, dilute a little roux with your liquor, boil it an hour over a gentle fire, take off all the fat, and run it through a bolter. SAUCE, CARRIER. Scrape a small stick of horseradish, cut an onion or two in thin slices, put these into a sauce tureen, with a little vinegar and whole pepper, and set the tureen in a dripping-pan under a shoulder of mutton whilst roasting. Serve the sauce quite hot with the meat. SAUCE, CHRISTOPHER NORTH'S. To a glass of port wine add a table-spoonful of lemon juice, two of Harvey's sauce, a dessert- spoonful of mushroom catsup, the same of pounded loaf sugar, a salt-spoonful of Cayenne pepper, and a small quantity of salt; mix these well together, and set it to heat, but it should not boil. It is excellent either with game or meat. SAUCE, DUTCH. Put six spoonsful of water and four of vinegar into a saucepan, and when warm thicken the same with the yolks of two eggs; make it quite hot, but not boiling; squeeze therein the juice of half a lemon, and strain it through a sieve. This is good with meat or fish. SAUCE, HARVEY'S. Chop twelve an- chovies, bones and all, very small ; add I oz. of Cayenne pepper, six spoonsful of soy, six ditto of good walnut pickle, three heads of garlic chopped (not very small), J oz. of cochineal, two heads of shallot chopped (not very small), and one gallon of vinegar ; let the whole stand fourteen days, stir it well twice or thrice every day, pass it through a jelly bag, and repeat this till it is perfectly clear; then bottle it, and tie a bladder over the cork. SAUCE, ITALIAN SALAD Mix to- gether three table-spoonsful oi sauce toumee, one of mustard, some tarragon and chervil shred small, with three table-spooa^ful of Florence oil, putting it in, however, a little at a time. When perfectly smooth add also by degrees a glass of tarragon vinegar and a little salt. This sauce cannot be mixed too much. SAUCE, MINCED. Put into a saucepan parsley, shallots, champignons, of each a spoonful shred, half a glass of vinegar, and a littlo pepper; put them on the fire till there remains scarcely any vinegar, when add four ladlesful of Espagnole and the same of stock; reduce, and take the fat from the sauce. When done put iu a spoonful of capers and two or three gherkins, both shred; pour it into another saucepan, and set it in the bain-marie. Just before it is sent to table pound an anchovy or two with a little butter, which beat up with the sauce. SAUCE PIQUANTE. Put into a sauce- pan a quarter of a pint of vinegar, a baj' leaf, and a little thyme; let this remain on the fire until reduced to half; add two ladlesful of Espagnole and two of stock, set it on the fire again, and when about the consistence of clear bouilli it is sufficiently done. Put salt according to taste. SAUCE, POOR MAN'S. Pick a handful of parsley leaves from the stalks, and mince them fine; strew over these a little salt, shred fine six young green onions, add the parsley to them, and put the whole into a sauce-boat, with three table-spoonsful of oil, five of vinegar, some ground black pepper, and salt; stir all these together, and send it up to table. You may add thereto pickled French beans or gherkins cut fine, or a little grated horseradish. SAUCE ROBERT. Cut a few onions into dice, which put in a frying-pan with a bit of butter, and fry them lightly. When nicely browned add a dessert-spoonful of flour, a ladle- ful of stock, the same of vinegar, some salt and pepper, reduce it to a proper thickness, and when ready for table stir iu two dessert-spoons- ful of mustard. SAUCE, QUIN'S. Dissolve six anchovies in a glass of port wine; bruise six shallots, and boil them in a quart of walnut catsup, with cloves, mace, and long pepper; let it cool, and mix in the anchovies, with half a pint of port wine. All sauces ought to be put in small bottles. SAUCE, ROMAR'S. Cut 1 lb. of veal and ^ lb. of ham into dice, and put them into a saucepan, with two legs of fowl, three carrots, four onions, two bay leaves, three cloves, a littlo basil, ^ lb. of butter, and some salt: set these on a brisk fire. In the meanwhile pound the yolks of twelve hard eggs to a paste, which put to the above, and stir them in till the butter is entirely melted; then pour in by degrees a quart of cream, and set the saucepan again on the firo for an hour and a half, stirring all the time : if