MAR [_ 138 ] MAR geese are in their high season in or about December. For new and stale, young or old, the same as the tame goose. Hare. A hare will be white and stiff if new and clean killed; if stale the flesh will be black- ish in most parts, and the body limber. If the cleft in her lips spread very much, and her claws are wide and ragged, she is old; the contrary if young. Heathcock and Hen. If young they have smooth legs and bills ; if old, rough. As for the other indications see Partbidges. Hens before they have laid eggs are called pullets. January is tbe high season for pullets with eggs, which you may know by their soft, open vent, and by their red comb. If they ai'e old their combs and legs will be rough; if young, smooth. Choose the fattest and whitest. Hens are best just before they are ready to lay, and yet are full of eggs. They hold good all the cold months, because long rest and sleep in the long nights make them at that time the fattest. It is generally believed that fat pullets, when young, are a very temperate food, of good juice and much nourishment, strengthening natural beat, engendering good blood, sharpening dull appetites, quickening the eyesight, and nourish- ing the brain. They agree with all ages and complexions, for they are neither so hot as to turn, as the old physicians were wont to say, into choler, nor so cold as to turn into phlegm, nor so dry as to be converted into melancholic; but turn wholly, or for the most part, into blood, making a lively colour in the face, and quickening both the eyesight and every sense. The flesh of pullets is sweetest when they are not too much fed, as the barn-door sort, which dig out their meat with their heels in some clean place where they have plenty of room and fresh air. Those that are kept in coops are not so sweet; for, as jailers are said to sipell of the prison, so do they of their own dung. Some ancient authors have been so mistaken as to aver that the flesh of fowls has a secret property of causing the gout, and we see that this distemper rages most among those who feed on fowls' flesh; for the poor, who cannot get fowls to eat, are seldom troubled with this distemper. The logicians would say non sequitur; for it is not surely that this distemper proceeds from eating of fowls, so much as from want of exercise, and most of all by drinking acid wine and other liquors, that gout arises. Herrings. The gills of a fresh herring will be of a fine red, aixl the whole fish stiff and very bright; but if the gills be of a faint colour, and the flesh limber and wrinkled, you may be assured it is stale. Pickled herrings, when good, are fat, fleshy, and white; and red her- rings will be large, firm, and dry : the latter should be full of roe and melt, and the outsides of a fine yellow. Those that have the skin or scales wrinkled on the back are preferable to those which have broad scales. Lamb will not keep long after it is killed. We believe you may discover by the neck end in the fore-quarter if it has been killed too long, the vein in the neck being bluish when the meat is fresh, but green when it is stale. In the hind-quarter the same discovery may be made by examining the kidney and the knuckle ; for the former has a slight smell, and the knuckle is not firm, when the meat has been too long killed. Larks. Tliey are of three sorts—the titlark, woodlark, and field-lark. When any of these are fresh they are stiff and firm, but limber and flabby when stale. The feathers come off with the least touch when stale, the contrary when fresh. Leveret. A leveret, if she be newly killed, will be stiff, but if stale killed will be limber. A right leveret has a small knobbed bone on the outside of the fore leg near the foot. If, by stroking your finger down her leg, you do not feel any, she is not a leveret, but a hare. It is said that hares' flesh prevents fatness, cleanses the blood, and is very diuretical. The Italians generally believe that eating of much hares' flesh makes a man fair and merry seven days after; for which purpose, perhaps, they were so much in request among the Romans that they bred them tame as we do rabbits. Lobsters. The tail of a boiled lobster, if fresh, will be stiff, and pull up ^\ith a spring; but if it be stale the tail will be flabby, and have no spring in it. But it is more advisable to buy them alive and boil them yourself, taking care that they are not spent by too long keeping. If they have not been long taken the claws will have a quick and strong motion on squeezing the eyes ; and the heaviest are esteemed the best. The cock lobster is known by the narrow back part of his tail; the two uppermost fins within its tail are stiff and hard, but those of the hen are soft, and the tail broader. The male, though generally smaller than the female, has the higher flavour, the flesh is firmer, and the body of a redder colour when boiled. Mutton must be chosen by the firmness and fineness of the grain, its good colour, and firm white fat. It is not considered excellent until the sheep be about five years old, although it is too often kiUed younger. Ox Beef, when it is young, will have a fine open grain and a good i-ed colour. The fat should be white; for when it is of a deep yellow colour the meat is seldom very good, and