PAR PAR [ 298 ] serve them on a dish by themselves ; or, when boiled, cut them in slices, and toss them up in a good bit of butter. Thej are generally eaten with salt fish. PARSON'S VENISON. Bone a shoulder or neck of mutton, and lay it into a marinade [see Venison, Mock) for forty-eight hours ; make a nice farce of what is picked from the bones, with any addition of meat and oysters ; or small mushrooms may be mixed in the manner of perigeaux; wash it over with egg, and dredge with spices and sweet herbs ; spread the farce equally over, cut off any of the unequal parts, and lay them on where it is thin, to give it a pi-oper shape; bind and stitch it well up, and roast it; or braise it in a vegetable braise, or in a marinade, with a clove of garlic; let it cool in the cloth in the liquor, put it in a cradle- spit, or on a hanging-jack, and finish it as venison Serve it with currant jelly or sauce Such methods of dressing meat are excellent, were it only for the eouveniency of being able to keep a joint fourteen days longer, as it may keep ten days hanging and in the marinade, and three or four days after the first cooking, in a proper larder, with advantage rather than injurjs and re-di'esses well in slices, and may be served in an Italian venison or ragout sauce. When meat is boned nothing can be lost, as the bones make soup, and may be cooked with, or be a braise for, the mutton. PARTRIDGE : To Caeve. The bird is cut up in the same manner as a fowl, but the skewers must be taken out before sent to the table. The wings are to be cut off in the line a, b, and the meny- thonght in that of c, d. The parts inost preferred are the wings, breast, ""^ and merrythought; but, from the smallness of the bird, the two latter are seldom divided. The wing is the best, and the tip of it is deemed most delicious by epicures. PARTRIDGE PIE. Take four partridges, and truss them for boiling. Pound in a marble mortar some shallots, parsley, the livers of the partridges, and double the quantity of bacon. Season this mixture with pepper, salt, and mace, and add thereto some fresh mushrooms, Raise the crust for the pie, and cover the bottom with seasoning; then lay the partridges thereon, but without stuffing, and put the rest of the seasoning about the sides and between the birds, lay over these some of the pounded mixture, with slices of bacon ; put on the crust, and bake it two hours. When done remove the cover, take out the bacon and fat, add a pmt of veal gravJ^ with the juice of an orange, and send it to table hot. PARTRIDGE PIE IN A DISH. Take four partridges, pick and singe them, and cut off their legs at the knee; season with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, thyme, and mushrooms; lay a veal steak and a slice of ham at the bottom of the dish, and put in the partridge, with half a pint of good consomme. Line the edges of the dish with puff paste, and cover with the same; do it over with the egg, and let it bake for an hour. PARTRIDGE PIE A LA PERIGEAUX. Take half a pint of truffles for each partridge ; prepare the birds as directed above; brush, wash, and clean the truffles, and cut them with 'a turnip cutter into pieces all of one size ; make a gratin, adding the dressings of the truffles ; proceed in every way as directed above; stuff the partridges, mixing the turned truffles with the gratin, and finish the pie as the foregoing, being the same with the addition of the truffles. It is excellent made with mushrooms instead of truffles. No bones should be left in standing pies, not only on account of waste, but, from digging them up, they become unpresentable, and are spoiled by the admission of the air. PARTRIDGE PIE, STANDING. Make about 6 lbs. of raised paste, wrap it in a damp cloth, and set it aside. Take five partridges, which pick and bone; weigh the meat, and to each pound put ^ lb. of spiced salt; cut the meat from two wild rabbits, of which take ] J lb. ; mince this with 2.^ lbs. of fat bacon, then put both these articles into a mortar, and pound them with 8 drachms of spiced salt, two yolks and one whole egg, a shallot minced and blanched, a dessert-spoonful of parsley, two of mushrooms, and two of truffles, all well minced ; rub this farce through a quenelle sieve, and mix it in a pan with 1 lb. of truffles cut into dice, and a table-spoonful of veloute or Espagnole. Cut 1 lb. of fat bacon into small lardons, which roll in 4 drachms of spiced salt, two spoonsful of parsley, mushrooms, and truffles, all shred small. With some of these lard the partridges inside, so that the lardons may not penetrate the skin, and with the remainder lard a noix of veal. PARTRIDGE SOUP. Take ofif the legs, with the whole of the back-bone, of as many partridges as you have occasion for; skin the breast and wings without separating them, re- move what fat there may be upon them, and let them lie about half an hour in cold water. Pound the flesh of the other parts in a marble mortar with two anchovies, then put the same into a stewpan, with sufficient veal to make a good gravy in proportion to the number of the