L 233 ] MUT MUT cutlets in this. In about two hours take them out, drain and glaze them, and dish them en couronne, with cucumbers and cream in the MUTTON CUTLETS, FRIED. Cut them very thin; beat, pare, or cut them with a cutter; fry them a nice brown, dusting in a little flour, mushrooms, onions, shallots, and minced parsley. Any or all of these may be added in due propor- tion. Put them into a stewpan, and allow them to simmer for half an hour. Any coUops may be cooked in this way. Add lemon or a little vinegar. If the sauce is too thin, egg, flour, or glaze may be added. MUTTON CUTLETS A LA POLONAISE. Remove all the fat, put the meat into a covered stewpan, with a carrot and a turnip sliced, two onions, a bundle of sweet herbs, a little pepper and salt, and enough bi'oth to moisten the whole. Stew very gently till the meat is perfectly done; then take it out, strain the gravy, put it over a brisk fire, and reduce it to a glaze ; then -.over the cutlets with a glaze, and serve them dp with tomato sauce, or a vegetable puree of any kind. MUTTON CUTLETS A LA SOUBISE. Cut out the cutlets from between the bones; pare, flatten, and lard them equally with bacon and ham ; prepare a stewpan with a braise, lay in the cutlets, put in a ladleful of stock, and cover with slices of bacon and a round of strong buttered paper ; let them boil, and put them on a paillasse with fire over them. When cooked pare anew, and turn the larding; reduce tbo stock, glaze the cutlets, and dish en cordon. Put in the middle a nice puree of onions, and garnish the dish with small glazed onions. This is a very elegant dish, and may be served with mushrooms, oysters, or any other ragout. MUTTON CUTLETS STEWED IN THEIR OWN GRAVY. Trim the fat entirely off some cutlets taken from the loin, just dip them into cold water, dredge them moderately w'ith pepper, and plentifully on both sides with flour; rinse a thick iron saucepan with spring water, and leave a couple of table-spoonsful in it; arrange the cutlets in one flat layer if it can be done conveniently, and place them over a very gentle fire. Throw in a little salt when they begin to stew, and let them simmer as softly as possible, but without ceasing, from an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half. If dressed with great care, which they require, they will be equally tender, easy of digestion, and nutritious; and being at the same time free from everything that can disagree with the most delicate stomach, the receipt will be found a valuable one for invalids. The mutton should be of good quality; but the excellency of the dish mainly depends on its being more gently stewed; for if allowed to boil quickly all tha gravy will be dried up, and the meat will be unfit for table. The cutlets must be turned when they are-half done. A couple of spoonsful of water or gravy may be added to them, should they not yield sufiicient moisture ; but this is rarely needful. Cook from one hour and a quarter to one hour and three quarters. MUTTON, FILLET OF (Braised). Take off the chump end of the loin, butter some paper and put over it, and paste the same as for venison; let it roast for a couple of hours, and be careful that it is not in the least browned. Have ready some French beans, boiled and drained on a sieve, and during the time the mutton is being braised give them one heat up in gravy, and lay them in the dish, serving the meat upon them. MUTTON, FILLET OF (Jellied). Take the fillets from two loins of mutton, and lard them with bacon rolled in sweet herbs; put them into a stewpan lined with slices of bacon, add the trimmings of the meat, two car- rots cut in pieces, two onions, each with a clove in it, a good bunch of pai'sley seasoned, a little salt and whole pepper, a glass of Madeira, and two table-spoonsful of consomme; cover the whole with bacon, and a piece of buttered paper the size of the pan, and set it on the fire. As soon as it boils put it aside, with fire under and over, to simmer slowly for two hours; then take it from the fire, and let the fillets cool in their sauce. When nearly cold drain and press them lightly between two dishes, and when quite cold cut each fillet in half; glaze them all over, dish them, and garnish over and round with jelly disposed according to your fancy. MUTTON, FILLET OF (Roasted). Cut some inches from either end of a large leg of mutton, and leave the fillet shaped like one of veal; remove the bone, and fill the cavity with forcemeat made with two cupsful of bread crumbs, and one of butter or minced suet, a little parsley finely shred, the quarter of a nut- meg grated, a tea-spoonful of powdered lemon- peel, allspice, and salt. Work the whole together with two or three yolks of eggs well beaten. It may be flavoured with a little minced onion if it is liked. More forcemeat may be added by detaching the skin on the flap side to admit it. Then the fillet may be floured and roasted, served with currant jelly and brown gravy, or with only melted butter poured over it; or it may be stewed gently for nearly or quite four hours in a pint of gravy or water, after having been floured or browned all over in 2 ozs. of butter. It must then be turned every hour, that it may be equally done. Two or three small onions, a fagot of herbs, a couple of carrots