MOO MOR [ 220 ] mih. as much butter as will cover it. The best «vay to melt it is by warming it in a basin set in hot water. MOOEFOWLS : To Stew. Truss them, keeping on their heads, but draw their legs within their body ; mix well some salt and pep- per with flour and a piece of butter, put a small piece into each bird, and fry them all over of a nice brown in butter. Brown some butter and flour, and add to it some good gravy, seasoned with pepper, salt, mace, and two cloves pounded; boil up the same, put in the moorfowls, and let them stew very slowly till tender. A little before taking them off the fire add a table-spoon- ful of mushroom catsup. If the birds are old stew them for two hours ; if young ones half that time. Cold roasted moorfowls are dressed exactly in the same way, only cut into joints, and stewed very gently nearly as long. Half an hour before serving a small tea-cupful of port wine should be added. MOREL SAUCE. Cut a nice morel, or as many as may be necessary, into small dice, so that there may be no waste; fry white in butter, and moisten with four spoonsful of veloute, two of consomme, and one of white wine. If the cook has not these sauces let rich stock be used, with a little flour and butter, or a roux, or a spoonful of very rich cream and salt. Any other seasoning may be added; but acids must be avoided, as they rather destroy the fine flavour of the morel. MORELS. These are a sort of underground mushroom or fungus, and called by botanists Morchella esculentu, found on wet banks and moist pastures. They ai-e used for thicken- ing soups and sauces, and to give them a fine flavour. For a ragoiit or garnish they are pre- pared as follows :—Having taken off their stalks, split the largest into two or three pieces, wash, and put them into a basin with warm water to free them from sand and earth; then blanch, drain, and put them into a stewpan, with a piece of butter and lemon juice*; give them a few turns, and moisten with either brown or white sauce. MORELS: To Keep. They should be dried slowly, put into paper bags, and kept in a diy place. MORELS WITH BACON. Cut about ^ lb. of bacon into slices, put them into a stew- pan, and set on the fire. When done take some large morels, wash them thoroughly, cut each in half, and put them into the same pan, having removed the bacon ; add a little butter, and give them a few tm-ns ; then take them out, soak them in melted butter or oil, with chopped parsley, shallots, whole pepper, and salt. In about half an hour drain and roll them in bread crumbs, put them on small skewers, lay them on a gridiron, and broil slowly, basting occa- sionally with butter, bacon, and fat. Lay the slices of bacon on a dish, and the morels on them. MORELS WITH CREAM. The morels being thoroughly washed, cut them in halves or quarters according to their size. Stew them with butter, salt, and a little water. When they are nearly done add some good cream, mix it in well, finish them, and serve the morels quite hot. MORELS, FRIED. Cut them lengthways, and boil them in a small quantity of rich broth over a slow fire. When the broth becomes rather thick take out and flour the morels, and fry them in a little lard. Make a sauce of the thickened broth, seasoning it ^\ith salt and nut- meg ; pour this into the dish, place the morels upon it, and add a little hot mutton gravy and lemon juice. MORELS IN GRAVY. Having cut, well washed, and drained your morels, put them into a saucepan, with oil, salt, and pepper. Let them boil for half an hour ; then add some veal gravy and a little wine; simmer them till suffi- ciently done, and serve them with the sauce; if the latter be too thick squeeze lemon juice into it. MORELS, STUFFED. Choose the largest and most round-shaped morels, and, having washed and drained, dry them in a cloth. Fill each with a little fine farce, and stew them with slices of bacon and veal. When nearly done pour on them a little veal gravy, and serve them hot. MOROCCO. [See Leathee.) Morocco leather, when soiled, should be sponged with soap and water, but not so as to soak into the leather, and when dry again be sponged over with milk. MORPHIA. This is one of the active prin- ciples of opium. Its most active form is when combined with acetic acid. It then forms acetate of morphia, of which the dose is from one-eighth to one quarter of a grain. Unlike opium, it occasions neither headache nor sick ness. MORRISON'S PILLS. No. 1 are made of equal quantities of aloes and cream of tartar. No. 2 of two parts gamboge, three parts aloes, one part colocynth, and four parts cream of tartar. They are made into a mass with syrup. MORTIFICATION. {See Gangrene and Inflammation.) This, though one of the re- sults of inflammation, occasionally arises with- out any symptoms of previous morbid affection. It may be distinguished by the parts, which are at first livid, becoming dark, and emitting par- ticles highly offensive to the smell. The parts also soon grow altogether insensible. There is more