S 0 E, son [ 452 ] are the principles of treatment in the cure of ulcers. We first encourage the growth of granu- lations by the application of the gentle stimulus of poultices, and, when the granulations have risen to the edge of the surrounding skin, we press down the granulations of the edge on those of the surface, either by the application of adhesive plaster or of unctuous substances. The more unctuous such substances are the better ; for the vessels will have a greater facility iu shooting towards the centi'e, and the granulations embedded in this unctuous matter will more readily extend along the surface of the sore. Such are the principles of treatment applicable to ulcers in the healing state. We will proceed to consider the impediments to the healing process which frequently occur, and which render a different mode of treatment necessary. The first circumstance which renders the cure of ulcers difficult is the too prominent state of the granulations, producing what is vulgarly called 2»'oud flesh. In this state the granula- tions, rising considei'ably above the edge of the surrounding skin, are necessarily prevented from uniting with those of the surface. In order to prevent the continuance of this state of the sore, the common treatment is to apply dry lint to the centre of the sore, and some unctuous substance to the edges. The lint, by its pres- sure, prevents the growth of granulations in the centre, while the unctuous substance allows the granulations on the edge to proceed and in- osculate with those on the surface of the sore. The lint should not be applied to the edge of the sore, for, if it is, the granulations will be pre- vented from proceeding towards the centre of the sore. The caustics called nitrate of silver and sulphate of copper are employed for the purpose of destroying luxuriant granulations near the edges of the sore. Here our practice is just reversed. Lint is applied to the centre of the sore for the purpose of keeping down the granu- lations on the surface, whereas the caustic is applied for the purpose of keeping down the granulations which are nearest the edge of the sore. In this way we promote the healing of the sore, forming a little circle by the caustic from day to day until we arrive at the centre. Ad- hesive plaster is used with the same view of keeping down the granulations. The common adhesive plaster is, however, too stimulating for this purpose. A pla&ter composed of equal parts of the compound galbanum plaster and the plaster of soap is a much better application to promote the healing of ulcers than the common adhesive plaster. This is a point deserving attention, because, if the application is of so •Btimulating a nature as to excite inflammation and excoriate the skin, we are often under the necessity of leaving off the adhesive plaster. It sometimes happens that the action is so great as to oblige us to apply a sheet of lead to the surface of the sore : when this is necessary you may apply a piece of lint covered with cerate, over these a piece of sheet lead, and round the whole a roller should be passed of about five yards in length. These are the various modes of treat- ment in this state of the sore. The next circumstance to which we shall advert, as giving rise to difficulty in the treat- ment of ulcers, is a languid or indolent state of the sore, in which its action is too slight. What is the character of such a sore ? You may know that a sore is in this state by the glossy and semi-transparent appearance of the granulations : instead of the florid hue which characterises granulations in their healthy state, a considerable portion of them is bloodless. The fact is, that the vessels near the surrounding parts have not sufGcient power to throw the blood to the extremities of the granulations. To remove this glossy appearance, and produce a healthy state of the sore, the application most commonly used is the ointment of red oxide of mercury. This is a strong, stimulating application, which occasions a determination of blood to the part, and produces a florid redness in the granula- tions, instead of the semi-transparent appearance which they assume in the languid state of the sore. It produces, however, a white appearance in the edge of the sore, arising from the thickened state of the skin, which prevents the growth of the gi'anulations on the edge. This may be corrected by the application of blue ointment to the edge of the sore. Lotions are frequently applied with the same view, such as the sulphate of zinc, in the proportion of 2 grains to 1 oz. of water, or the sulphate of copper, in the proportion of 1 grain to 3 ozs. of water. The oxymuriate of mercury and lime water are also used for the same purpose. In addition to these applications it will be necessary to bind up the sore with a roller, and to allow the patient to take a great deal of exercise, for without exercise a healing disposition will not be produced in the sore. It will be highly useful in these cases to employ some stimulating plaster, such as the compound galbanum plaster, for the adhesive plaster will not answer the purpose. The sores are languid, and the object is to increase the action in the part: this will be greatly assisted by giving the patient a nutritious diet, allowing him at the same time to take exercise, and, in fact, by doing everything to improve the con- stitution. The next stage of ulcers we come to i3 that to be met with in patients on their admission