f 419 } SAV SGA take out the sausages carefully; remove the Teal and all the fat, with a sharp knife cut them into slices, and serve cold. SAVE ALL PUDDINGS. Put scraps of Iread into a saucepan, with a pint of milk to every pound; set it on a trivet till it hoils; beat it up until smooth; then add three eggs, 3 ozs. of sugar, some nutmeg, ginger, or allspice, and stir the whole well; butter a dish, put in the pudding, and strew over it 2 ozs. of suet chopped finely. Four ounces of currants will enrich it much. Bake it three quarters of an hour. SAVELOYS: To Make. Take 3 lbs. of young pork free from bone, skin, and sinews, and let it lie one day in 1 oz. of saltpetre and 1 lb. of common salt; chop the meat finely, put in three tea-spoonsful of pepper, twelve leaves of sage chopped small, and 1 lb. of grated bread; mix these well, fill the skins, and bake them one hour and a half in a slack oven. They may be eaten hot or cold. SAVORY: To Preserve. Mix it with clarified syrup, and reduce it to the consistence of a preserve. A little of this is used with pre- served beans. SAVOY SOUP. Cut into quarters and boil in a little water five large savoys ; strain the water off when they are cool; press them well to drain out all the water ; then put them into as much beef gravy as will cover them ; cover them very closely, set the saucepan on a moderate fire, and let them stew for two hours ; then set on a large frying-pan with J lb. of butter, and stir it well about; as soon as the savoys are nicely coloured add a quart of veal gravy, and mix them well together; soak some crusts of French rolls in the gravy in which tlie savoys are stewed, lay them in a tureen at a little dis- tance from each other, and then pour in the gravy and onions. SCALDS. See Burns and Scalds. SCALLED HEAD. Little ulcers arise in the skin of the hairy scalp. The humour they discharge has an offensive smell, and dries into a white brittle scab. Another symptom is an itching sensation. Should the face be the seat of the disorder it is called the milk-scab. It may be known from other eruptions by the offensive smell, and by the dry, white, brittle scab. Children are principally affected with this disease, particularly those of the poor. In many instances, however, it is propagated by con- tagion from using the same comb, impregnated with some of the matter from the head of a person labouring under the disease. The treatment, which should be early adopted, consists in shaving the head closely, and covering it afterwards with an ointment made of sulphur and pitch, or »nuriated mercury and pitch, e.g.: •—Take tar, i lb.; yellow wax, ^ oz. ; sublimed sulphur, 2 ozs. Dissolve, and make an oint- ment. Or, take tar, 2 ozs.; oxymuriate of mercury, 6 grains : mix, and make an ointment, previously to the use of which the head should be washed with the following lotion:—^Take sulphuret of potash, ^ oz.; lime water, 1 pint; compound liniment of soap, 1 oz.; or wash with a frothy solution of Castile soap and warm water by means of a piece of flannel, &c. In case of scalled head, cutting off the hair as closely as possible, washing the parts well with soap and water, and afterwards sprinkling them pretty thickly night and morning with powdered charcoal, have proved very efficacious. The diet to be observed in this disease should be wholesome and nutritive, avoiding salt meat or salted fish. If paid proper attention to in time it seldom proves difficult of cure. SCAMMONY is the dried juice of the root of Convolvulus scammonia, a native of Syria and the Levant. It is an efficacious and powerful cathartic, very eligible in worm cases, and in the disordered state of bowels which so com monly occurs in children. Dose, 3 to 15 grains, in the form of powders, triturated with sulphate of potash, sugar, or almonds : when given alone it is apt to irritate the fauces. It may be also administered in a solution, effected by tritu- rating it with a strong decoction of liquorice, and straining. SCARLET FEVER {Scarlatina). The scar- let fever is so called from the colour of the patient's skin, which appears as if it were tinged with red wine. It happens at any season of the year, but is most common towards the end of summer, at which time it often seizes whole families. Children and young persons are most subject to it. It begins, like other fevers, with coldness and shivering, without any violent sickness. Afterwards the skin is covered with red spots, which are broader, more florid, and less uniform than the measles. They continue two or three days, and then disappear, after which the cuticle, or scarf-skin, falls off. There is seldom any occasion for medicine in the mild form of this disease. The patient ought, however, to keep within doors, to abstain from flesh, strong liquors, and cordials, and to drink freely of cool diluting liquors. If the fever runs high the body must be kept gently open by emollient clysters, or small doses of nitre and rhubarb. A scruple of the former and 5 grains of the latter may be taken thrice a day, or oftener if necessary. Children and young persons are sometimes seized at the beginning of this disease with a kind of stupor and epileptic fits. In this case