PIG L 328 ] PIG with onions, cucum'bers, celery, turnips, French beans, or any other vegetable. PIGEONS, PICKLED. Bone them, turn the inside out, and lard them ; season with a little all- spice and salt in fine powder, turn them again, and tie the neck and rump together ; put them into boiling water, and let them boil a minute or two to plump. After this take them out, and thoroughly dry them; then put them into a pickle, which should be made of equal quantities of white wine and white wine vinegar, with white pepper and allspice, sliced ginger and nutmeg, and a few bay leaves. When it boils up put the pigeons into it. If they are small a quarter of an hour will be sufficient to do them, but if they are large they will require twenty minutes; then take them out, wipe them, and let them cool. As soon as the pickle is cold take off the fat, and put them jn again. Keep them in a stone jar tied down closely, so that the air may be excluded. Instead of larding put in some stuffing made of hard yolks of eggs and marrow in equal quantities, with sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and mace. PIGEONS, POTTED. Be very particular that they are quite fresh, clean them thoroughly, and season with salt and pepper; lay them close together in a small deep pan, for the smaller the surface, and the more closely they are packed, the less quantity of butter is re- quired ; cover them with butter, tie them over in a thick paper, and bake them. When cold put them to dry in pots that will hold two or three in each, and pour butter over them, using that which is baked as part. Observe that the butter is pretty thick over them if they are done for keeping. The pigeons would lie more closely, and want less butter, if they were boned, and put in a pot in an oval form. They may be stuffed with a fine forcemeat made with veal, bacon, &c., and they will eat extremely well. If a high seasoning is approved of add tnace, allspice, and a little Cayenne pepper before baking. PIGEONS POTTED WHOLE. Bone, truss, and pack them in a deep pan, with pepper, salt, a little fine powder of thyme, or any sweet herbs tha,t may be agreeable, and a clove of garlic bruised and rubbed into the salt and spices; cover with butter, and bake them, well covered. While they are yet warm put them into the pots they are to be pre- Bented in (these pots ought to have close covers), press them well down, and lay a weight upon them. When cold put a little of the butter they were baked in over them. If mushrooms can be had, pack them with the pige.»ns, or stuff them with them. The ex- travagant manner of potting whole birds, it is to be hoped, will fall into disuse. All birds that are potted should be boned, as they cut with less waste, and keep better. PIGEONS, SALMIS OF. Cut up three or four cold roasted pigeons, and put them into a stewpan, with a little veal and ham, five or six carrots, and an old partridge ; let them stand on a slow fire till they stick to the pan ; then moisten them with champagne, good consomme, veal gravy, a bay leaf, salt, and pepper ; cover the whole closely, and reduce it. When done (and a short time is sufficient), serve it very hot, with trufSes, morels, sliced lemons, and, if you like them, a few larks. PIGEONS, STEWED. Make a stuffing with livers parboiled and bruised, a piece of butter, a few bread crumbs, pepper, salt, pounded cloves, parsley, sweet herbs chopped, and yolk of egg ; fill the pigeons, tie them at each end, half roast or fry them, put them into some good gravy or beef broth, with an onion stuck with cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a slice of lemon; let them stew gently till tender; strain the sauce, skim off the fat, and put to it pickled mushrooms, Cayenne, forcemeat balls, and hard yolks of eggs. The pigeons may be larded. PIGEONS, STUFFED. Make a farce with any remnants of fowl you may happen to have, some veal sweetbreads, truffles (all chopped small), pounded bacon, salt, pepper, and yolks of eggs; fill the pigeons with this, and put them into a pan with some melted butter. In a quarter of an hour cover the pan closely, and let them stand till done, turning them occasionally. PIGEONS, TIMBALE OF. Take as many young pigeons as you intend to have timbales, and give them a few turns with any mateiials jon please. Make a paste with flour, beef suet sliced small, yolks of eggs, salt, and water, and keep it rather firm; line your moulds (having buttered them well) with this, put a pigeon in each, cover them with paste, and bake them. When done make a small hole in the top of every one, through which pour some veal gravy. Serve them hot. PIGEONS, WILD (A l'Etouffade). Take three wild pigeons, and laid them with bacon rolled in salt, pepper, parsley, shallot, basil (all shred fine), spices, and aromatic herbs; then put the birds into a stewpan between slices of bacon ; add a thin slice of ham, two onions stuck with cloves, a carrot sliced, a seasoned bouquet, a glass of white wine, and a little consomme; let them be thoroughly done, and then dish them. Strain the sauce over, and serve them. PIGEONS, WILD (en Marinade). The pigeons being ready for dressing, cut them in halves or quarters, and soak them in a light marinade. When they have lain in this for