I 339 ] PLE takes tlie longest.time to dry, and the bristles are apt to come out if the brush remains long wet. We annex some recipes for -washes, which are useful when the articles become much soiled:—Alum, cream of tartar, and common salt, of each J oz., dissolved in two quarts of water. Wash the articles in this, then rub them dry, and they will look like new. Or, alum, cream of tartar, and vinegar, equal parts ; water, twice as much. Mix, and add a little of this to the boiling water in which you dip the plate, or you may apply it with a cloth dipped in hot water, and then rub dry as before. Or, unslaked lime and alum, of each 1 part; vinegar, 11 parts; water, 12 parts. Mix and apply hot. PLATE BOILING POWDER. Equal parts of cream of tartar, alum, and common salt. A small quantity added to the. water in which plate is boiled gives it a silvery whiteness. PLATE POWDERS. Finely prepared chalk or burnt hartshorn. One way in which these are used is to boil them in water with pieces of rag. The finer particles are entangled in the fibres of the rags, which are dried and kept for use. Or, quicksilver with chalk, 1 oz. ; pre- pared hartshorn, 8 ozs.; prepared chalk, 4 ozs. Powders containing quicksilver, besides the necessary wearing of the surface, are supposed to render the plate more brittle. If used it should not be in larger proportion than the above. Or, finest putty powder, 1 oz.; levigated chalk, 5 ozs. A little rouge may be added to colour it. French Plate Powder. Mix one part of jewellers' rouge with twelve of carbonate of magnesia. Jeweller's Rouge. Dissolve green vitriol in hot water, and add a solution of pearlash as long as it throws down a precipitate. Wash the precipitate repeatedly with warm water, drain it on calico, and finally calcine it till it assumes a bright colour. It is sometimes made by calcining the sulphate of iron with a strong heat till oxide of iron only remains. Let it be triturated with water, and prepared in the same way as prepared chalk. PLATED ARTICLES. Under the head Plate we have given directions for clean- ing these. They should be rubbed even more gently than articles of solid silver; yet with every care the silver will wear oS from them, and in that case they may be renovated by one of the following prepara- tions :—Nitrate of silver, 30 grains; common salt, 30 grains; cream of tartar, 3J drachms. Mix. Moistened with water, and rubbed on dial plates or other copper articles, it coats them with silver. Or, silver precipitated from its nitric solution by copper, 20 grains; alum, 30 grains; cream of tartar, 2 drachms; salt, 3 drachms, Or, precipitated silver, ^ oz.; common salt, 2 ozs.; muriate of ammonia, 2 ozs.; corrosive sublimate, 1 drachm. Make it into a paste with water. Copper utensils are previously boiled with tartar and alum, and rubbed with this, paste, then made red-hot, and afterwards polished Or, dissolve muriate of silver in a solution of hyposulphite of soda, and mix this with prepared hartshorn or other suitable powder. PLATINUM is the heaviest and most in- corrodible of all the metals. It is, therefore, much preferable to tin for lining copper vessels. They may be easily platinised in the following way:—Solid chloride of platinum, 1 part, is dis- solved in water, 100 parts, and to this solution is added common salt, 8 parts ; or still better, 1 part of platino-chloride of ammonia and 8 parts of hydi'ochlorate of ammonia are placed in a flat porcelain vessel, 32 to 40 parts of water poured over them, the whole heated to boiling, and the vessels of copper or brass, perfectly bright, are placed therein. They will be covered in a few seconds with a brilliant and firmly adhering layer of platinum.—[Cooley.) "PLETHORA. (See Corpulency and Gid- diness.) To a person of a plethoric habit, with a short neck, costiveness is particularly injurious. It not only favours an increase of blood in the venous system, by the distended bowels com- pressing the descending aorta, but occasions an increased afflux of blood to the head, and at the same time, by compressing the veins, retards its return from the head ; and hence the great relief some plethoric subjects receive, in cases of stupor, oppression of the chest, and indigestion, from the operation of a brisk purgative. Costive- ness is, therefore, a very common precursor of apoplexy, and of inflammatory affections of the head. When the blood-vessels of the brain are evidently overloaded a full dose of a brisk cathartic is necessary; and here an aloetic purge, as the cathartic extract or the compound colo- cynth pill, by its stimulating effects on the rectum (occasioning a determination of blood to the bowels, and even the lower extremities), is most beneficial. To obviate costiveness and accelerate the circulation of the blood through the bowels, 10 grains of the aromatic pill (in two pills) may be taken once or twice a day ; but, as the system of blood-vessels is frequently overloaded, in consequence of the kidneys not performing their office, and as the secretion of urine is immedi- ately from the mass of blood, it is a good practice to employ a diuretic medicine with an aperient, as the oil of juniper in the mass of the pills, or an infusion of the buchu leaves or juniper berries, two or three times a day. The aperient neutral salts—as Glauber's, the