POX POX [ 361 ] like most other popular mistakes, is the abuse of a very just observation—that when there is a moisture on the skin the pustules rise better, and the patient is easier than when it continues dry and parched; but that is no reason for forcing the patient into a sweat. Sweating never relieves unless where it comes spontaneously, or is the effect of drinking weak diluting liquors. The patient ought to have no more covering in bed than is necessary to prevent his catching cold, and should be frequently taken up to keep him cool, and prevent too great a flux of blood towards the head. Children are often so peevish that they will not lie in bed without a nurse constantly by them. Indulging them in this, we have reason to believe, has many bad effects both upon the nurse and the child. Even the natural heat of the nurse cannot fail to augment the fever of the child ; but if she too proves feverish, which is often the case, the danger must be increased. Putting several children who have the small pox in the same bed has many ill consequences. They ought, if possible, never to be in the same chamber, as the perspiration, the heat, smell, &c., all tend to augment the fever, and to heighten the disease. It is common among the poor to see two or three children lying in the same bed, with such a load of pustules that even their skins stick together. One can hardly view a scene of this kind without being sickened by the sight; but how must the effluvia affect the poor patients, many of whom perish by this usage. A very dirty custom prevails among the lower class of people of allowing children it) the small pox to keep on the same linen during the whole period of that loathsome disease. This is done lest they should catch cold ; but it has many ill consequences. The linen be- comes hard by the moisture which it absorbs, and frets the tender skin. It likewise occasions a bad smell, which is very pernicious both to the patient and those about him. Besides, the filth and sordes which adhere to the linen being resorbed, or taken up again into the body, greatly augment the disease. A patient should not be suffered to be dirty in an internal disease, far less in the small pox. Cutaneous disorders are often occasioned by nastiness alone, and are always increased by it. Were the patient's linen to be changed every day it would greatly refresh him. Care, indeed, is to be taken that the linen be thoroughly dry. It ought likewise to be put on when the patient is most cool. So strong is the vulgar prejudice in this country, notwithstanding all that has been said against the hot regimen in the small pox, that numbers still fall a sacrifice to that eiTor. We have seen poor women travelling in the depth of winter, and carrying their children along with them in the small pox, and have frequently observed others begging by the wayside, with infants in their arms covered with the pustules; yet we could never learn that one of these children died by this sort of treatment. This is certainly a sufficient proof of the safety, at least, of exposing patients in the small pox to the open air. There can be no reason, however, for exposing them to public view. It is now very common, in the environs of great towns, to meet patients in the small pox on the public walks. This practice, how- ever well it may suit the purposes of boasting inoculators, is dangerous to the citizens, and contrary to the laws of humanity and sound policy. The food in this disease ought to be very light, and of a cooling nature, as panada, or bread boiled with equal quantities of milk and water, good apples roasted, or boiled with milk, and sweetened with a little sugar, or such-like. The drink may be equal parts of milk and water, clear sweet whey, barley water, or thin gruel, &c. After the pustules are full, butter- milk, being of an opening and cleansing nature, is a very proper drink. Medicine. This disease is generally divided into four different periods, viz., the fever which precedes the eruption, the eruption itself, the suppuration or maturation of the pustules, and the secondary fever. It has already been observed that little morg is necessary, during the primary fever, than to keep the patient cool and quiet, allowing him to drink diluting liquors, and bathing his feet frequently in warm water. Though this be generally the safest course that can be taken with infants, yet adults of a strong constitution and plethoric habit sometimes require bleed- ing. When a full pulse, a dry skin, and othei: symptoms of inflammation render this operation necessary, it ought to be performed ; but, unless these symptoms are urgent, it is safer to let it alone. If the body is bound emollient clyster^ may be thrown in. If there is a great nausea, or inclination tq vomit, weak camomile tea or lukewarm water may be drunk, in order to cleanse the stomach. At the beginning of a fever nature generally attempts a discharge either upwards or down-, wards, which, if promoted by gentle means, would tend greatly to abate the violenQe of the disease. Though every method is to.b? taken during the primary fever, by a cool regi,men, S(c., to prevent too great an eruption, yet, after the pustules have made their appearance, our b^si-, ness is to promote the suppuration by diluting