LET [ 1^6 ] Lie dish, after wbich fry some eggs in butter, and lay them on the lettuce. LETTUCE PEAS. Having washed four lettuces, and stripped off the outside leaves, take their hearts, and, having chopped them ■well, put them into a stewpan, with two quarts of young green peas freshly shelled, a lump or two of loaf sugar, and three or four leaves of green mint minced as fine as possible; then put in a slice of cold ham, ^ lb. of butter, divided into four bits and rolled in flour, and two spoonsful of water; add a little black pepper, and let the whole stew for about twenty-five minutes, or till the peas are tho- roughly done; then take out the ham, and add to the stew half a pint of cream ; let it continue stewing five minutes longer, and then send it to table. LETTUCE PEAS, PLAIN. Cover the bot- tom and sides of a stewpan with large fresh leaves taken from lettuces, and have ready the peas, which should be young and green. To each quart of shelled peas allow two table-spoonsful of fresh butter and a lump of loaf sugar; add a very little pepper and salt, and a sprig of green mint; cover the pan closely, and let it stew for half an hour, or till the peas are thoroughly done; then take them out from the lettuce leaves, and send only the peas to table. LETTUCE WITH SAUCE BLONDE. When boiled cover it with sauce blonde. LETTUCE, STUFFED. Take off the outer leaves of several close-headed lettuces, parboil them a quarter of an hour, dip them in cold water, and drain them; then spread the lettuces upon the table, to put in the stuffing either gi'as or maigre; tie them up, and stew them in a pan with gravy or bouillon, or with butter if it be en maigre. When done serve them with their gravy. LEVERET: To Roast. Follow the same instructions as given for the Hare, and while roasting dredge it with flour, and baste it well with warm milk till it is three parts done, and a good crust is formed thereon; then put into the dripping-pan 2 ozs. or 3 ozs. of fresh butter. Serve with gravy and melted butter over it, and melted cui'rant jelly separately. LEVERET AU CHASSEUR. Take only the hind-quarters of a leveret, which marinate from six to twelve hours in the juice of a lemon, oil, pepper, salt, a bay leaf, and thyme. Put into a large stewpan some slices of bacon with some butter, and warm for a short time; then add the leveret without cutting it up, and raising it often so that it may be done equally. When half done add half a glass of bouillon, a spoonful of brandy, and the marinade shortly after serving. Serve it with all the sauce. LIAISON is the French term for thicken- ing. See Thickening. LIBRARY. See Books, LICE. The human race is liable to be exclusively invaded by three different species of lice; namely, 1. The crab, or body-louse, which never appears in clothes or on the head, but harbours only in some parts of the bodies of uncleanly persons, or such as are disordered by dissipation. It is easily exterminated by ap- plying a strong decoction of tobacco or mercurial ointment. 2. The clothes-louse is larger than the next species, and has a thicker head. It visits the skin only for imbibing the necessary portion of its nourishment, when it retreats to the folds and seams of clothes. These vermin may be speedily destroyed by fumigating the articles of dress with sulphureous vapours. 3. The head-louse frequents only that part of the body, and is so prolific that each female, in the course of twelve days, deposits several hun- dred eggs, or nits, which are closely cemented to the hair, and hatched in six or seven days by warmth and perspiration. After three weeks the young brood is fit for propagating their species, and as there are, perhaps, a hundred females to one male insect, their rapid increase may be easily conceived. Want of cleanliness, immoderate warmth, violent perspiration, and a corrupted state of the human fluids remarkably promote their generation. Among the most simple and harmless remedies for extirpating these vermin is the seed of parsley reduced to a fine powder; but if the humours of the whole animal body are in so vitiated a state that the blood is contaminated by sensual excess of every kind, there arises the rmorhus pedicularis, or the most dreadful of all diseases, in which those disgusting insects are bred in ulcers, and cover the whole frame, so that the ill-fated victim cannot be relieved. Some constitutions, however, are more ex- posed to these odious vermin than others; and it is remarkable that seafaring men performing voyages to the East Indies, though infested with them on leaving Europe, lose them in a certain degree of latitude during their voyage, but on their return are again liable to their incursions. Beside the remedies already suggested we shall only observe that, in cases where danger is apprehended from lice, it will be useful to take nourishing, succulent food, and to use whole- some drink. As a cure for the pedicular 'dis- ease give frequent purgatives ; at the same time anoint the parts affected with garlic and mus- tard ; make use of salted and acid food ; bathe and foment the body with a decoction of gall- nuts ; but the most effectual remedies are sulphur and tobacco, mercurial ointment, black pepper and vinegar.