r 881 ] RAD RAB RABBITS IN SWEET HERBS. Cut two young rabbits in pieces ; put them into a stew- pan, with butter, fried parsley, young onions, ■white shallots, and mushrooms ; pass them over the fire for a quarter of an hour, when they will be done enough. Finish with the juice of a lemon. RACKING is drawing off wine from its lees into another cask previously to fining and bottling it. Under the head Finings we gave the necessary directions for home-made wines ; but we will now give more fall directions for foreign wines, for which we are indebted to a clever little book entitled " The Butler," published by Houlston and Stoneraan. Clarets should always be fined for bottling during the summer months, or from April to September, being then in a belter condition than in winter, and they should be bottled after the full moon. Port wines are best when fined and bottled from September to March, as these deposit their crust better then than if bottled during the summer months. Sherries are not considered so particular, but the summer months are best for bottling. Wines that have been standing some time had better be racked into a fresh cask before fining, or, if thfcy have deposited much lees, these will again mi.x. with the wine, and cause it to fret. Red wines are fined with whites of eggs ; from ten to twelve whites will be required for a pipe in summer, and from twelve to fourteen in winter. Six whites of eggs should be used to a hogshead, and four to a quarter cask. Separate the whites from the yolks, and put them into a very clean pan or pail Draw two or three bottles, or more, of the wine to be fined from the cask, and begin to whisk up the eggs with about half a bottle of it at first, adding other portions until beaten into a strong froth, and the eggs and wine are perfectly mixed; then put a clean stick or " rummager " into the cask tlirough the bung-hole, and stir the wine well about; take out the stick, and pour in the whites of eggs mixed with the wine. Stir the wine in the cask again well with the stick for full five minutes. Rinse the pan or pail in which the eggs were beaten with whatever wine you may have left, and pour it into the cask ; stir again, and after taking out the stick, beat round the bung-hole with a mallet, to disengage the air bubbles and the froth , then bung it up, first covering the bung with a piece of clean cloth. Make a spile-hole about three inches above the tap, and drive in a spile, so as to examine the wine to see if it is in a fit state for bot- tling. In about ten or twelve days aJter the finings are added the wine will be generally found in a fit state for bottling. White wines are fined with isinglass dis- solved in sharp wine, such as hock, or some of the wine to be fined; but the manufacture of finings for white wine constitutes almost a sepa- rate branch of trade, and is prepared by the wine coopers. Three pints of white wine finings will be required for a butt; if stubborn, half a gallon will be necessary. A quart of finings should be allowed for a hogshead, and a pint for a quarter cask. The finings are to be mixed with the wine in the same manner as directed for red wines. After being fined they will require a month to settle before being fit to bottle. In white wines the spile may be left out for a night after the finings are worked in, and those wines that are " harsh " in fining, which is sometimes the case with poor white wines, should have the bung left out to allow the spiiit to evaporate; but old wines should be bunged down immediately. When wines do not clear well the first time rack them into a clean cask, to separate them from the lees, and fine them again as before; or, add to the second lot of finings, whether for white or red, a handful of silver sand, to in- crease their density ; and new or high-coloured red wines may have a handful of salt added to the finings for a pipe. RADCLIFFE'S ELIXIR. This purgative is given in doses of from 1 to 4 drachms, accord- ing to the age and strength of the patient. It is made as follows:—Take socotrine aloes, 6 drachms ; bark and root of cinnamon, zedoary, of each i drachm ; rhubarb, the root, 1 drachm ; cochineal, ^ drachm ; syrup of buckthorn, ^ ozs.; proof spirit, 1 pint; water, 5 ozs. RADISH PODS: To Pickle. Put the pods, gathered when young, into salt and water, for a night; boil the brine, pour it upon them, and cover the jar closely to keep in the steam. When nearly cold make it boiling hot, pour it on again, and repeat the process till the pods are quite green ; then lay them on a sieve to drain, and make a pickle of white wine vinegar, a little mace, ginger, long pepper, and horse- radish ; pour this boiling hot on the pods, and when nearly cold heat it again twice as hot as before, and pour it upon them; tie them closely, and keep them in a dry place. RADISHES WITH BLOND. Boil in some stock and drain your radishes, then put them into a stewpan with veal blond, simmer them for half an hour, add a little nutmeg and verjuice, stir them occasionally, and when the radishes are flavoured and well coloured dish