[ 3G0 ] POX POX taking exercise are apt to perspire. These symptoms are succeeded by slight fits of cold and heat in turns, which, as the time of the eruption approaches, become more violent, and are accompanied with pains of the head and loins, vomiting, &c. The pulse is quick, with a great heat of the skin and restlessness. When the patient drops asleep he wakes in a kind of horror with a sudden start, which is a very common symptom of the approaching eruption, as are also convulsion fits in veiy young children. About the third or fourth day from the time of sickening the pustules, or pimples, generally begin to appear; sometimes, indeed, they appear sooner, but that is no favourable symptom. At first they very nearly resemble flea-bites, and are soonest discovered on the face, arms, and breast. The most favourable symptoms are a slow eruption, and an abatement of the fever as soon as the pustules appear. In a mild, distinct kind of small pox the pustules seldom appear before the fourth day from the time of sick- ening, and they generally keep coming out gradually for several days after. Pustules which are distinct, with a florid red basis, and which fill with thick purulent matter, first of a whitish, and afterwards of a yellowish colour, are the best. A livid brown colour of the pustules is an unfavourable symptom, as also when they are email and flat, with black specks in the middle. Pustules which contain a thin watery ichor are s^ery bad. A great number of pustules on th« face is always attended with danger. It is likewise a bad sign when they run into one another. It is a inos;t unfavourable symptom when petechia, or purple, brown, or black spots, are interspersed among the pustules. These are signs of a putrid dissolution of the blood, and show the danger to he very great. Bloody stools or urine, with a swelled belly, are bad symptoms, as is also a continual strangury. Pale urine and a violent throbbing of the arteries ,of the neck are signs of an approaching delirium., or of convulsion fits. When the face does not swell, or falls before tlie pustules come to maturity, it is very unfavourable. If the face begins to fall about the eleventh or twelfth day, find at the same time the hands and feet begin to swell, the patient generally does well; but when these do not succeed each other there is reason to apprehend danger. When the tongue is .covered with a brown crust it is ai> ynfavoujable symptom. Cold shivering fits coming ,on at the height of the disease are likevwse ainfavourable. Grinding of the teeth, Hvhen it pjoGeeds from an affection of the ffiervous system, is a bad sign; but sometimes it is occasioned by worms or a disordered stomach. Diet. When the first symptoms of the small pox appear, people are ready to be alarmed, and often fly to the use of medicines, to the great danger of the patient's life. We have known children, to appease the anxiety of their parents, bled, blistered, and purged, during the fever which preceded the eruption of the small pox, to such a degree that nature was not only disturbed in her operation, but rendered unable to support the pustules after they were out, so that the patient, exhausted by mere evacua- tions, sank under the disease. When convulsions appear they give a dreadful alarm. Immediately some nostrum is applied, as if this were a primary disease ; whereas it is only a symptom, and far from being an unfavourable one, of the approaching eruption. As the fits generally go off before the actual appearance of the small pox, it is attributed to the medicine, which by this means acquires a reputation without any merit. Convulsion fits are, no doubt, very alarming; but their effects are often salutary. They seem to be one of the means made use of by nature for breaking the force of a fever. We have always observed a fever abated, and sometimes quite removed, after one or more convulsion fits. This readily accounts for convulsions being a favour- able symptom in the fever which precedes the eruption of the small pox, as everything that mitigates this fever lessens the eruption. All that is, generally speaking, necessary during the eruptive fever is to keep the patient cool and easy, allowing him to drink freely of some weak diluting liquors, as balm tea, barley water, clear whey, gruels, &c. He should not be confined to bed, but should sit up as much as he is able, and should have his feet and legs frequently bathed in lukewarm water. His food ought to be very light, and he should be as little disturbed with company as possible. Much mischief is done at this period by con- fining the patient too soon to his bed, and plying him with warm cordials or sudorific medicines. Everything that heats and inflames the blood increases the fever, and pushes out the pustules prematurely. This has numberless ill effects. It not only increases the number of pustules, but likewise tends to make them run into one another; and, when they have been pushed out with too great violence, they gene- rally fall in before they come to maturity. The good women, as soon as they see the small pox begin to appear, commonly ply their tender .charge with cordials, saffron, and mari- gold teas, wine, punch, and even brandy itself. All these are given with a view, as they term it, to throw out the eruption from the heart. This,