PER PER [ 317 ] in a remarkable degree ; we also know that it is highly conducive to health that this important function of the body be preserved in the most uniform state: hence it necessarily follows that after supper we ought to sit up at least two hours, and, to afford this benefit both to the organs of digestion and perspiration, our suppers should not be delayed to the late hours now so absurdly in fashion. According to the experiments made by dif- ferent inquirers into the nature of insensible perspiration, this process is most forcibly af- fected, and sometimes totally suppressed, by the following circumstances:— 1. By violent pain, which in a remarkable degree consumes the fluids of the body, or propels them to other parts. S. By obstructions of the cutaneous vessels, which are frequently occasioned by the use of salves, ointments, and cosmetics. 3. By severe colds, especially those contracted at night and during sleep. 4. When nature is employed with other ob- jects. Thus perspiration is weaker during the time of concoction, particularly after using food difficult of digestion. This is likewise the case wlien nature endeavours to promote any other species of evacuation, which more engages the attention of the senses—for instance, vomitings, diarrhoeas, considerable hemorrhages, and the like—as also when the efforts of nature are too weak: hence the aged, the debilitated, and poor persons, unable to supply the wants of the body, or to pay due attention to cleanliness, perspire less than others. Lastly, the same must happen to individuals of a sedentary life who neglect the necessary exercise of the body, and those likewise who wear tight garments and improper ligatures about the joints. Perspiration, on the contrary, is promoted,— 1. By stretching or expanding the limbs, as the lungs and muscles thus acquire an additional impulse, and the fluids circulating too slowly in the smaller vessels are propelled to the larger veins and arteries, and forwarded to the heart; so that this principal muscle is then obliged to extend and contract its ventricles with greater force, and consequently to quicken the whole circulation of the blood. 2. By the lukewarm bath, which is well cal- culated to soften the skin, and thus to open the pores for a better perspiration. 3. By moderate bodily exercise. 4. By mild sudorific remedies; and for this reason it is extremely proper, in the case of a recent cold, to drink two or three cups of tea, especially when going to bed. If perspirabte matter collect in drops it should then be called sweat, and is no longer a natural and necessary evacuation; on the contrary, we find very healthful and robust persons who seldom or never sweat. By means of this exuda- tion both noxious and useful particles are at the same time ejected from the surface, the body is enfeebled, the blood is rendered impure, and the secretion of bad humours is prevented by every violent effort of the cutaneous vessels. If sweating be carried to excess it is extremely injurious, and may even be productive of con- sumption. By insensible perspiration, on the contrary, the superfluous particles only are expelled, because the circulation of the fluids is slower, and more calm and uniform. This important purification of the blood ought never to be checked : if, therefore, we wish to take a bracing exercise, it should by no means be con- tinued till profuse perspiration takes place. Cold only checks perspiration when it occa sions an unusual stimulus on the skin, and when we too suddenly remove from a warm to a cold atmosphere. Hence the necessity of accustoming ourselves from early youth to the vicissitudes of heat and cold, of walking every day in the open air, and of washing the whole body at least once a week with lukewarm, or still better, with cold water. By this practice the pores are braced and inured to undergo the different changes of the weather and seasons without suffering, as most people now do upon the slightest occasion, by severe colds and catarrhs. It is never too late to begin this strengthen- ing process, by frequently washing and rubbing the whole surface of the body with cold water; for, if cautiously managed at first, it cannot fail to invigorate young persons and adults, as well as the aged. To sleep on feather beds occasions a constant vapour bath at night, which destroys the beneficial acquisi- tions of the day. To remove from a cold tem- perature to a still colder one is not nearly so prejudicial as to exchange suddenly the air of a warm room for that of a moist and cold atmo- sphere. This accounts for the frequent colds caughtin summer, even by going from the burning rays of the sun to the cooling shade; and hence, too, the first cold of autumn is most sensibly felt, because we are then unaccustomed to that impression. Much also depends on the nature and pro- perties of our food and drink, in respect to the state of insensible perspiration. The subtle and rarefied fluids only, not those of a coarse and oily consistence, can pervade the skin. Too many oleaginous, viscous, and crude articles of nourishment, such as fat meat, pastry, boiled mealy dishes, smoked hams, sausages, &c., have a strong tendency to obstruct the free perspira- tion of the body, and consequently to affect tho serenity of the mind.