[ 367 ] PUD PUD •wlien boiled In a cloth only. In some cases, as rice or bread pudding, the cloth should be tied loosely ; if of flour crust, tightly. Puddings should be put into plenty of boiling water, which should be kept filled up if requisite. If the fire be very fierce the pudding may stick to the bottom of tlie saucepan and burn, to prevent which, before putting in the water, place a plate or dish, hollow downwards, in the saucepan. Upon taking out the pudding boiled in a cloth, dip it into cold water before you untie it, when it will not stick to the cloth or mould. Of baking puddings. All of the custard kind, whether made of eggs and milk only, or of sago, arrowroot, rice (ground or in grain), vermicelli, &c., require a very gentle oven, and are spoiled by fast baking. Those made of batter, on the contrary, should be put in one sufficiently brisk to raise them quickly, but without scorching them. Such as contain salt and raisins must have a well-heated, but not a fierce oven ; for, as they must remain long in it to be thoroughly done, unless carefully managed they will be much too highly coloured or too dry. By whisking to a solid froth the whites of the eggs used for any pudding, and stirring them softly into it at the instant of placing it in t!ie oven, it will be rendered exceedingly light, and will rise very high in the dish; but, as it will partake then of the nature of a souffle, it must be despatched with great expedition to table from the oven, or it will become flat before it is served. When a pudding is sufficiently browned on the surface—that is to say, of a fine equal amber colour—before it is baked through, a sheet of writing paper should be laid over it, but not before it is set. When quite iirm iu the centre it will be done. Potato, batter, plum, and every other kind of pudding, indeed, which is sufficiently solid to allow of it, should be turned or reversed on to a clean hot dish from the one in which it is baked, and strewed with sifted sugar before it is sent to table. PUDDINGS IN HASTE. Shred some suet, and put it with grated bread, a few currants, the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, 6ome grated lemon-peel, and ginger; mix, and make it into little balls about the size and shape of an egg with a little flour; have ready a skillet of boiling water, and throw them in. They take about twenty minutes' boil- ing; but they will rise to the top when done. PUDDING S, HOG'S. Heat two quarts of new milk, and soak 3 lbs. of crumb in it; mince 3 lbs. of beef suet, season with penny- royal, winter savory, thyme, or any other herb, ginger, nutmeg, allspice, pepper, sugar, and salt; beat six eggs, and mix the whole together; cut in pieces lib. of leaf fat, and, as the puddings are filled, put in at proper distances. Half fill, and tie in links or lengths , put them in boiling water, but do not let them boil fast, as it wiil harden the blood too much. Prick them to prevent their bursting. When used soak in hot water, and broil and put them in the oven. PUDDINGS, NELSON. Put half a dozen small cakes called Nelson's cakes or balls, made in small tea-cups, into a Dutch oven. When they are quite hot pour over them melted butter, white wine, and sugar, and serve. PUDDINGS, SCOTCH (White). Mix 1 lb. of grated Naples biscuits, ^ lb. of pre- pared sweet almonds, and | lb. of marrow, beat eight eggs in a pint of cream, and season with orange-flower water, sweet wine, ginger, cinna- mon, nutmeg, minced citron, sugar, and salt; do not fill above two-thirds, simmer slowly, and prick them : they will be done enough in a quarter of an hour. PUDDINGS IN SKINS. The first thing to be done is to clean the skins for filling; empty them well, and rinse them in several waters ; turn them out upon a stick, and lay them in lime water, where they must be left some hours; then scrape and clean them, and lay them again for a night in lime or char- coal water. The use of rose water in cleaning skins must have originated from the idea of covering the bad smell, but which defies every- thing except proper cleaning. The blood should be broken by the hand as it flows either with a little salt or vinegar, to prevent its curdling. All kinds of blood are made into puddings: those considered the most delicate are veniscn, hare, poultry, and all young animals, of which there is great waste, as it might be cooked in the smallest quantities in cups, fried, or in the skins of the necks of poultry. Hog's-blood puddings are generally distinguished by large square pieces of the leaf fat or bacon put in at regular distances. Blood and liver puddings require high seasoning with spices and sweet herbs, pepper, salt, sugar, fried onions, and garlic. The next thing to be thought of is the proper proportion of the ingredients to form consistency and flavour, which often, where there are a number of ingredients ordered in the receipt, bewilders the unexperienced. Tue cook, therefore, ought at first to attain clear ideas upon the nature of what she has to do, and then she cannot err: she ought to keep in mind the different purposes the puddings are made for. Puddings of blood and liver for common family use may be made with from a quarter to half the quantity of suet to the liver or blood; but these puddings ought to have a larger pro-