ME A j:j e a [ l«0 ] pale on the face, and afterwards upon the body, so that by the ninth day they entirely disappear. The fever, however, and difficulty of breathing, often continue, especially if the patient has been kept npon too hot a regimen. Petechiae, or purple spots, may likewise be occasioned by this error. A violent looseness sometimes succeeds the measles, in which case the patient's life is in imminent danger. Such as die of the measles generally expire about the ninth day from the invasion, and are commonly carried off by a peripneumony, or inflammation of the lungs. The most favourable symptoms are a mode- rate looseness, a moist skin, and a plentiful discharge of urine. When the eruption suddenly falls in, and the patient is seized with a delirium, he is in the greatest danger. If the measles turn too soon of a pale colour it is an unfavourable symptom, as are also great weakness, vomiting, restlessness, and difficulty of swallowing. Pur- ple or black spots appearing among the measles are very unfavourable. When a continual cough, with hoarseness, succeeds the disease, there is reason to suspect an approaching con- sumption of the lungs. Our business in this disease is to assist nature, by proper cordials, in throwing out the eruption, if her efforts be too languid; but when they are too violent they must be restrained by evacuations, cool diluting liquors, &c. We ought likewise to endeavour to appease the most urgent symptoms, as the cough, restlessness, and difficulty of breath- ing. Treatment. The cool regimen is necessary here as well as in the small pox. The food, too, must be light, and the drink diluting. Acids, however, do not answer so well in the measles as in the small pox, as they tend to exasperate the cough. Small beer, likewise, though a good drink in the small pox, is here improper. The most suitable liquors are de- coctions of liquorice with marsh-mallow roots and sarsaparilla, infusions of linseed or of the flowers of elder, balm tea, clarified whey, barley water, and such-like. These, if the patient be costive, may be sweetened with honey; or, if that should disagree with the stomach, a little manna may occasionally be added to them. The measles being an inflammatory disease, without any critical discharge of matter, as in the small pox, bleeding is commonly necessary, especially when the fever runs high, with diffi- culty of breathing and great oppression of the breast; but if the disease be of a mild kind bleeding may be omitted. Bathing the feet and legs frequently in luke- warm water both tends to abate the violence of the fever and to promote the eruption. The patient is often greatly relieved by vomit- ing. Wlien there is a tendency this way it ought to be promoted by drinking lukewarm water or weak camomile tea. When the cough is very troublesome, with dryness of the throat and difficulty of breath- ing, the patient may hold his head over the steam of warm water, and draw the vapour into his lungs. He may likewise lick a little spermaceti and sugar candy pounded together ; or take now and then a spoonful of the oil of sweet almonds, with sugar candy dissolved in it, which will soften the throat and relieve the tickling cough ; or the following demulcent pectoral:— Take almond mixture, 5ozs.; nitrate of potash, 15 grains; syrup of poppies, drachm. Mix, and let the patient take a dessert-spoonful when the cough is troublesome. If at the turn of the disease the fever assumes new vigour, and there appears great danger of suffocation, the patient must be bled according to his strength, and a blister applied, with a view to prevent the load from being thrown on the lungs, where, if an inflammation should fix itself, the patient's life will be in imminent danger. In case the measles should disappear suddenly, or before the proper time, it will be necessary to pursue the same method as is recommended when the small pox re- cedes. The patient must be supported with wine and cordials. Blisters must be applied to the legs and arms, and the body rubbed all over with warm flannels. Warm poultices may likewise be applied to the feet and palms of the hands, and diaphoretics, such as these; — Take antimonial powder, 6 grains. Make a powder,- to be given every three, four, or six hours. Or, take spirit of nitric ether, 2 drachms; solution of acetated ammonia, 6 drachms ; mint water, 5 ozs.; syrup of saffron, 3 drachms. Mix. Two table-spoonsful to be taken frequently. When inflammation attacks the chest a warm bath strongly impregnated with salt has been found a powerful subsidiary remedy, in addition to blood-letting. If the symptoms manifest a tendency to a putrid or malignant form of disease they must be treated accordingly, as directed in slow nervous (typhus) fever. When purple or black spots appear the patient's drink should be sharpened with spirits of vitriol; and if the putrid symptoms increase the Peruvian bark must be administered. See Small Pox.