HAB HAB [ 10 1 When the batter is soft enough to mix. with the milk stir them well together, and remove the saucepan from the fire; beat three eggs till very light, and mix them with the milk and butter after they have cooled; then make a hole in the middle of the flour, pour in the mixture, and two large table-spoonsful of strong fresh yeast. With a spoon mix the flour into the liquid till the whole is thoroughly incorporated, then cover the pan with a thick woollen cloth, and set it near the fire to rise. It should be light in about five hours, perhaps sooner. When quite light mix in a tea-spoonful of soda dissolved in a very little warm water, divide the dough into long oval cakes or rolls, and knead each separately; sprinkle an iron baking pan with flour, put in the cakes, cover the pan, and Jet it stand half an hour before baking. Bake the cakes in a moderate oven. Eat them fi'esh with butter. They are excellent tea-cakes. Of course they must be mixed in the forenoon. HABERDINE is dried salt cod. See Cod. HABITS. As these form the chief pre- disposition to the diseases with which we ai'e concerned, it is essential to the preventive part of this work that the more important of them should be here considered. We first advert to that disposition which is observable from almost the earliest periods of infancj' to attempt, by all possible means, the gratificatiop of every want, and the removal of every present suffering. Although this principle, which is inherent in our very nature, and is in the beginning provided for by instinctive motions, is evidently intended for the preserva- tion of life, yet, under the want or perversion of the means of practical instraction, it becomes the source of the greater number of physical evils which affect mankind. Attentive observa- tion will also show that the usual modes of early education among civilised nations are more instrumental in the production of moral evil than even a state of ruder nature. In the former state the wants of infancy and childhood are satisfied as soon as expressed, and even anticipated and prevented. A similar conduct is observed with regard to those slight sufferings which are incidental to the frail state of humanity. Under both these situations, instead of being taught patience by reasonable denial, it usually happens that the child is gratified precisely in proportion to the violence of its importunity, or else bribed intp acquiescence by some compromise of sensual indulgence. Thus he learns to consider present enjoyment as the end of his existence, and, concluding that the world was made for his pleasure, is averse to the torture of instruction, ftnd hates those who contradict or oppose him. 1"p this criminal indulgence of innate pro- pensities during childhood may chiefly be traced those vicious habits which afterwards " grow with our growth, and strengthen with our strength," are the bane of all social virtues, and unfit us alike for present and future happiness. Among the lower orders of society, although the general principles are precisely similar to those which have been thus described, these processes in some degree differ, con- formably to the difference of the conditions of life. The child is, indeed, brought up more hardily; but he soon discovers that he can disobey with impunity, and that, in spite of repeated positive denials, he can always, by querulousness, passion, or persevering impor tunity, ultimately gain his purpose. In no rank of life is there, in general, much choice as to the means, provided the end be obtained. If tl^ child cry it must be quieted. If benefit is to bo procured at the expense of incon- venience, however trifling, either the good must be absolutely relinquished, or acquiescence must be gained by some assurance or promise, which the very next moment the child discovers to be S: falsehood. From this representation, which the nature of the medical profession affords a thousand opportunities of verifying, it appears that the usual habits of civilised society place the earliest period of human life in a worse situation, with regard to the common principles of virtue, than those of the untutored savage. The immediate cause of these errors is obvious. The parent and nurse act, with regard to the child, precisely in conformity to their own habits. Accustomed rarely to look for the regulation of their conduct beyond the feelings of the present moment, they apply the same rule to that being whom Providence has trusted to their care. They perceive that he is afflicted by the exertions of due authority, and the expressions of his afflictions are intolerable to them. All, there- fore, which they are anxious to accomplish is their own immediate ease, and it is not till too late that they discover (if their ignorance or selfishness will ever permit them to discover) that by their conduct they have defeated their o^^'n purpose, and rendered inveterate those very evils which they strove to shun. Human life consists of a series of irritations, and Providence has so ordered that scarcely any earthly good is to be acquired without labour and suffering. As also, on one hand, the good itself is enhanced by the difiiculty with which it is attained, so, on the other hand, there are few pains, whether of body or mind, which are not, within certain limits, alleviated by continuance and repetitions. Hence no one, probably, enjoys true pleasure but he who has e.xperienced pain, and moderate evils are scarcely