PUE [ 368 ] PUE portion of onion, which must be fried to raise the flavour, with only one sweet herb (such as pennyroyal, sage, &c.), pepper, and salt in full quantity. When these are mixed let a bit be either fried or poached to test it, so that any alteration may be made before the skins are filled. PUERPERAL FEVER, commonly called childbed fever. It begins, like most other fevers, with a cold or shivering fit, which is succeeded by restlessness, pain of the head, great sickness at the stomach, and bilious vomiting. The pulse is generally quick, the tongue dry, and there is a remarkable depres- sion of spirits and loss of strength. A great pain is usually felt in the back, hips, and region of the womb; a sudden change in the quantity or quality of the lochia also takes place; and the patient is frequently troubled with a tenesmus, or constant inclination to go to Btool. The urine, which is very high-coloured, is discharged in small quantity, and generally with pain. The belly sometimes swells to a considerable bulk, and becomes susceptible of pain from the slightest touch. When the fever has continued for a few days the symptoms of inflammation usually subside, and the disease acquires a more putrid form. At this period, if not sooner, a bilious or putrid looseness of an obstinate and dangerous nature comes on, and accompanies the disease through all its future progress. There is not any disease that requires to be treated with more skill and attention than this; consequently the best assistance ought always to be obtained as soon as possible. In women of plethoric constitutions bleeding will generally be proper at the beginning; it ought, however, to be used with caution, and not to be repeated, unless where the signs of inflamma- tion rise high, in which case it will also be necessary to apply a blistering plaster to the region of the womb. During the rigour, or cold fit, proper means should be used to abate its violence and shorten its duration. For this purpose the patient may drink freely of warm diluting liquors, and, if low, may take now and then a cup of wine whey. Warm applications to the extremities, as heated bricks, bottles or bladders filled with warm water, and such-like, may also be used with advantage. Emollient clysters of milk and water, or of chicken water, ought to be frequently admi- _ nistered through the course of the disease. These prove beneficial by promoting a dis- charge from the intestines, and also by acting as a kindly fomentation to the womb and parts adjacent. Great care, however, is requisite in giving them, on account of the tenderness of the parts in the pelvis at this time. To evacuate the offending bile from the stomach a vomit is genei'ally given ; but as this is apt to increase the irritability of the stomach, alreadj' too great, it will be safer to omit it, and to give in its stead a gentle laxa- tive, which will both tend to cool the body and to procure a free discharge of the bile. Midwives ought to be very cautious in ad- ministering vomits or purges to women in child- bed. We have known a woman, who was recovering extremely well, thrown into the most imminent danger by a strong purge which was given her by an officious midwife. The medicine which we have always found to succeed best in this disease is tlie saline draught. This, if frequently repeated, will often put a stop to the vomiting, and at the same time lessen the violence of the fever. If it runs off by stool, or if the patient be restless, a few drops of laudanum or some syrup of poppies may occasionally be added. If the stools should prove so frequent as to weaken and exhaust the patient, a starch clyster, with 30 or 40 drops of laudanum in it, may be administered as occasion shall require ; and the drink may be rice water, in every English pint of which ^ oz. of gum arable has been dissolved. Should these fail, recourse must be had to calumba root, or the powder of bole combined with opium. Though in general the food ottght to be light, and the drink diluting, yet, when the disease has been long protracted, and the patient is greatly spent by evacuations, it will be neces- sary to support her with nourishing diet and generous cordials. It was observed that this fever, after con- tinuing for some time, often acquires a putrid form. In this case the Peruvian bark must be given, either by itself or joined with cordials, as circumstances may require. As the bark in substance will be apt to purge, it may be given in decoction or infusion, mixed with the tinc- ture of roses or other gentle astringents; or 1 scruple of the extract of bark, with ^ oz. of spirituous cinnamon water, 2 ozs. of common water, and 10 drops of laudanum, may be made into a draught, and given every second, third, or fourth hour, as shall be found neces- sary. When the stomach will not bear any kind of nourishment the patient may be supported for some time by clysters of beef tea or chicken broth. To avoid this fever every woman in childbed ought to be kept perfectly easy; her food should be light and simple, and her bedchamber cool and properly ventilated. There is not anything more hurtful to a woman in this situation than being kept too warm. She ought not to have