TUB [ 502 ] TUB in the opening through which they descended. In the latter case the surgeon knows the ap- plication of the truss would be highly injurious. But if the assistance of a surgeon cannot be had on the first appearance of the disease, the patient must give up all kind of exercise or labour. Every exertion, however trifling, only tends to force the intestines from their natural position, and increase the malady. Immediate rest becomes essential, and the position of the patient should be always with the head lower than the body. If the patient cannot sleep with a truss made with a steel band, a bandage composed of leather only, with the usual pad, may be used; and they have answered the purpose of keeping up the intestines, or parts contained in the rup- ture, during the night. By thus constantly wearing a bandage that will retain the intestines in their natural situation, an opportunity is given to the ring to contract, or produce such an alteration in the parts as to lay the foundation of more radical cures of this malady than have hitherto been supposed to have taken place. He must likewise take care to keep the pad from shifting, and steadily fixed on the aperture, to prevent a descent of the intestines. In a certain time he may be informed that he can sleep in safety without it, and it is possible this information may be correct; but, to avoid a return of the disease, which is a consequence that generally arises from a mistaken and pre- mature opinion, the patient should not remove the truss but when in bed and lying on his back, with his feet drawn close to the buttocks. Previously to his rising in the morning he must I'estore the truss to its former situation, and with as little motion as possible. In the act of rising, dressing, walking, &c. not the least violence must be used, but every move- ment of the patient must be dii'ected by gentleness and caution. TUBERCULAR PHTHISIS. {See Con- sumption.) We have omitted to recommend, under any previous heading, the use of cod- liver oil as a medicine to keep this disease in check. A small wine-glassful is taken daily. This oil is obtained from the livers of the com- mon cod [Gadus morrhiui), by exposing them to the sun, when, as the livers corrupt, the oil runs from them, and is collected in a vessel set to receive it, after which it is filtered and ex- ported. As thus prepared it is of a dark brown colour, owing to the presence of some of the solid matters of the fish in a state of decomposition. But it may be prepared nearly colourless by exposing the fresh livers of.the fish to the heat of a stove not exceeding 200° Fahrenheit, in an earthen pan or other vessel, when the oil runs out, and may be collected and filtered to sepai'ate any solid particles. Cod-liver oil con- tains a trace of iodine and bromine, which, how- ever, is too small to be of any activity as a medicine. It is employed intei'nally as a remedial agent in rheumatism and scrofula, requiring a long-continued use to prove suc- cessful. Dr. De Jongh says, " I rarely prescribe the cod-liver oil for children under six months old. After that period it can be safely administered, especially when several children of the same family are labouring under scrofulous disease, and hereditary predisposition to that malady may therefore be supposed to exist in the others. ' More than a tea-spoonful twice a day should not be given to children under a year old ; to children between two and four years old, two dessert-spoonsful a day; and to chil- dren above that age, a table-spoonful twice a day. In severe cases this quantity may even be taken three times a day. To adults I pre- scribe from two to six table-spoonsful a day, according to the urgency of the case. " In cases of insurmountable aversion to the taste of this oil, which are, however, of very rare occurrence, I have seen the happiest results attending its use in the form of an enema, tlie injection consisting of 2 ozs. of cod-liver oil and 2 ozs. of a solution of starch. For very young children half of this suffices. When used as a remedy for worms this method will be found to be particularly efficacious ; but it must on no account be resorted to in cases of diarrho3a. " I prescribe the cod-liver oil not only in- ternally, but also externally, for the cure of rheumatic and gouty pains, the swelling of the lymphatic glands, and the tumid belly of lickety children. Scrofulous ulcers may be dressed with compresses saturated with cod-liver oil, and similar pads of lint applied loosely to the affected parts in cases of scrofulous skin dis- eases or scrofulous affections of the joints. Fresh compresses should always be applied every two or three hours. I have also most successfully applied the oil externally in cases of scrofulous ophthalmia. " Diarrhoea proceeding from an irritation of the intestinal canal, haemoptysis, and derange- ment of the digestive functions, require the immediate suspension of the cod-liver oil treat- ment until these disorders be removed by proper remedies. " In order completely to eradicate a scrofu-' lous or rheumatic habit, the treatment with the cod-liver oil should be continued uninterruptedly at least during an entire year. I would espe- cially recommend that for children of scrofulous habits its use should be combined with that of hop, camomile, and potash baths. Of late years I have recognised the salutary effects of sua