[ 43 ] HOG HON let them remam two days ; then boil a pint of malt with salt and water, and when cold put the head into this pickle. HOG'S HEAD AS WILD BOAR. Cut the head close to the shoulder, bone the neck part, and cut off the chops, with part of the flesh of the nose, as far as the eyes. Take the bone off, and lard the inside with bacon rolled in pepper, salt, and spices; rub it all over with common salt and ^ oz. of saltpetre ; put into a pan, with half a handful ©f juniper berries, thyme, bay leaf, basil, cloves, and half a handful of coriander; cover the pan, and leave it for a week; then take out the head, tie it up, dry it, and p\it it into a saucepan with three pints of red wine and water, onions, carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, two cloves of garlic, half a nutmeg grated, thyme, bay leaf, six cloves, and 2 lbs. of lard. Taste the braise before it is quite done, and add salt if necessary. It is sufficiently cooked when it gives way to the touch. Let it cool in the braise, and serve it cold, garnished with bay leaves accord- ing to fancy. HOG'S "lard : To Peepare. Melt it well in a jar, put it into a kettle of boiling water, and then run it into bladders that have been well cleaned and soaked. The smaller these are the better the lard will keep. Put in a sprig of rosemary while melting. HOG'S PUDDINGS. After washing ilb. of rice in warm water boil it in milk till tender, and put it into a sieve to drain. In the mean- time beat up I lb. of sweet almonds very finely with rose water, wash and dry 1 lb. of currants, cut 1 lb. of hog's lard small, and beat up six eggs, 4 lb. of sugar, a nutmeg grated, a stick of cinna- mon, some mace, and salt. Fill the skins with this mixture, and boil them. HOGSHEAD, a measure of capacity for liquids which, not being named in the Act 5 George IV., has no legal existence The hogs- head of wine, or wine measure, contained 63 gallons, each of which contained 231 cubic inches; the hogshead of beer 54 gallons of 282 cubic inches in each. In Scotland a hogs- head contained 16 gallons. Hogshead is a term applied also to very large casks of various dry goods. A hogshead of sugar contains an uncertain quantity, usually between lOcwt. and 15 cwt. of that article. HOLLANDS. See Gin. HOLLANDS : To Make English. Take a lump or two of sugar, two spoonsful each of tlie oils of juniper, turpentine, and almonds, and twenty drofts of the oil of vitriol; rub them in a marble mortar with about half a gill of spirits Df wine of sufficient strength to turn dry in a silver spoon ; introduce this a little at a time till the spirit kills the oils, and then dissolve i lb. of loaf sugar in two quarts of clear boiled or distilled water. In the next place mix with two gallons of rectified malt spirits, or rather whiskey, the coqibined oils and spirits of wine, to which add the dissolved sugar or water. After stirring the whole well put in a tea-spoonful of warm alum finings, shake the vessel, and let it stand to settle, after which draw off the liquor for use. Cordial gins of different flavours may be made in a similar manner, only omitting the whiskey. HOMINY. Hominy is made of the grain of Indian corn broken by the steel mills. It is soaked overnight in warm water, changed in the morning to clean cold water, and boiled gently an hour and a half. Warm it when cold, and eat it with milk or molasses, or salt or bacon, or alone. HOMINY, BOILED. Tie lib. of crushed hominy in a cloth, allowing plenty of room to swell, and boil three hours. This pudding may be eaten with sugar and melted butter, or treacle sauce. One pound of hominy will make a pudding sufficient as a meal for five or six persons, at a cost of not more than 2d. when Indian corn is selling from 563. to 60s. per quarter. HOMINY FRITTERS. Beat up three eggs with a large spoonful of butter, and then add three spoonsful of cold hominy, a pint of milk, and a pint of wheat flour. Mix all well together, and let them rise three hours. HOMINY MILK. Soak Jib. of crushed hominy in water twelve hours, and then boil it in milk over a slow fire two hours. It must be about the consistence of rice milk when brought to table. HOMINY PUDDING, RICE. Mix the hominy, which has been previously boiled either in milk or water, with eggs, a little sugar, nut- meg, and suet, and with or without currants and raisins as preferred ; tie it up in a basin, and boil two hours. It is excellent either boiled or baked. HONEY : To Clarify. Take 6 lbs. of honey, 1^ lb. of water, 2|^ozs. of pounded chalk, and 5 ozs. of coal pulverised, washed, and well dried ; add the whites of three eggs beaten in 3 ozs. of water for each pound of honey. Put the honey, water, chalk, and eggs into a copper vessel capable of holding about one-third more than the above quantities, let them boil for two minutes, throw in the coal, mixing it with a spoon, and continue the boiling two minutes longer ; then take the saucepan from the fire, and let it stand nearly a quarter of an hour, that the liquor may cool; then take a new sieve, which must be well washed, or it will impart a dis- agreeable taste, pass the honey through it, taking care to filter the first drops twice, as they generally carry with them some portion of the coal.