NAL NAR [ 245 ] manner as we press certain snuff-boxes to open them, the nail then grow red all along its middle, from its top down to the white speck at the root of it, while the sides in the meantime be- come pale and white. The cause of this pheno- menon is that, by squeezing the sides of the nail in this fashion, they press harder upon the flesh, while the back of the nail, on the contrary, is raised more into an arch, and thus the flesh is more at liberty under the back of the nail than under its sides, whence it must necessarily happen, in the manner above explained, that the middle of the nail must grow red, and its sides appear pale. A blow on the nail sometimes occasions the roots attached to the flesh to break and come away, which obliges the nail to fall off a few days afterwards. But sometimes those roots remain entire, and there are only some blood- vessels broken by the violent compression of the blow. In this case there is only a small effusion of blood between the flesh and the nail; and this extravasated blood, appearing through the nail, makes it seem pale, which is the colour of an ecchymosis. This paleness sometimes disappears of itself, or with the help of a linen rag dipped in aqua vitffi, and applied over the nail and all round the finger. It sometimes happens, however, that this livid colour of the nail continues obstinate. The method of preventing this inconvenience is to put round the nail and the top of the finger a linen rag done over with an ointment made of manna, oil of olives, and wax, prepared in this manner :—Take 1 oz. of fine Calabrian manna, the cleanest, whitest, and most transparent you can get; melt it in a little pot over the fire, with 1 oz. of white wax and as much pure oil of olives ; keep this ointment in a box for the use above mentioned, and apply it fresh to the finger every third day. This is a sovereign remedy, not only for pi'eventing the paleness of the nail, but likewise for curing it. NALESNIKIS, or Polish Pancakes. Beat up eight eggs, and mix them with a pint and a half of milk or cream, 2 ozs. of melted fresh butter, some grated nutmeg, lemon-peel rasped upon loaf sugar, a little salt, and 10 ozs. of flour, and make the whole into a smooth batter. Put into a frying-pan a little butter or hog's lard, and when it boils put in some of the batter, and sprinkle in a few currants; fry nicely, and sprinkle the pancake with sugar; roll it with a two-pronged fork, and serve it as hot as possible. NALESNIKIS WITH PRESERVES. Make the pancakes as directed in the last receipt, and when cool spread upon them any kind of marmalade, and some small pieces of butter; place them one upon another in a mould, into which pour a sauce made of the yolks of seven eggs, two whites beaten to a froth, and a pint of milk and sugar ; set them to bake slowly in the oven or Dutch oven ; turn up the mould on the dish, and when taken out serve them one by one in the plates. Or you may roll these pancakes when spread over with jelly, then cut them into slices, which unroll into strips, and put them into the mould like macaroni, with the above sauce. NAPHTHA is obtained by distillation from coal tar. It is extensively used in the dissolving of India rubber for waterproofing, as a source of illumination, and for heating shaving water and other things in chambers. Its heating power is not quite equal to that of tallow, for 1 lb. of the latter, during burning, will melt 104 lbs. of ice, but 1 lb. of naphtha melts only 98 lbs.—(John son's Chemistry of the World.) NAPLES BISCUITS. See Biscuits, Naples. NAPLES CURD. Put into a quart of new milk a stick of cinnamon, boil it a few minutes, take out the cinnamon, and stir in eight well- beateu eggs and a table-spoonful of white wine. When it boils again strain it through a sieve, beat the curd in a basin, together with about i oz. of butter, two table-spoonsful of orange- flower water, and pounded sugar sufficient to sweeten it. Put it into a mould for two hours before it is sent to table. White wine, sugar, and cream may be mixed together, and poured round the curd, or it may be served in a sauce tureen. NAPOLEON'S PILLS. The Emperor Napoleon I. suffered from an oppression of the chest, and to relieve it employed these pectoral pills :—Gum ammoniac, 4 scruples ; squills, 4 scruples ; ipecacuanha, 1 drachm. Make into forty-eight pills with syrup. Two to be taken night and morning. NARCOTICS are also called sedatives, ano- dynes, hypnotics, and soporifics. They are sub- stances which, in a moderate dose, occasion a temporary increase of the actions of the nervous and vascular systems, but which is followed by a greater depression of the vital powers than is commensurate with the degree of previous ex- citement, and which is generally followed by sleep. The relative intensity of these primary and secondary effects varies in the different narcotics, and even in the same narcotic in different doses. In some cases, especially if the quantity ad- ministered be considerable, the symptoms of di- minished sense and action follow so immediately that the previous stage of increased action is very obscure, or not in the least perceptible; while in other cases the operation of the sub-