[ 236 ] MUT M U T and when about to dress it lay over it paper a;id paste- It will take four hours to roast. Serve it with venison sauce. MUTTON, LEG OF: To Force. Raise the skin, take out the lean part, and chop it fine witli an anchovy; then make a forcemeat with sweet herbs shred, a grated penny loaf, half a lemon, a nutmeg, pepper and salt, three eggs, and a glass of red wine. Fill up the skin with the forcemeat, but leave the bone and shank, and it will appear like an entire leg. Lay it on an earthen dish, with a pint of red wine under it, and bake it. When done, which will be in two hours and a half, take off the fat, strain the gravy over the mutton, and lay round it hard eggs and pickled mush- rooms. Garnish with pickles. MUTTON, LEG OF: To Roast. A leg of 8 lbs. weight will take from one hour and three quarters to two hours, according to the time it has hung. Let it be well basted and frothed. Serve with onion or cur-raut-jelly sauce, or plain melted butter, and such vegetables as are in season. MUTTON, LEG OF : To Roast with Oysters. Stuff a leg of mutton that has hung two or three days with oysters; then roast it. Serve it with good gravy. Cockles may be used instead of oysters. MUTTON, LEG OF (a l'Anglaise). Lard the fleshy part of a leg of mutton with fat bacon, tie it with packthread, and put it into a pot just large enough to hold it, with some stock, a bunch of parsley and green onions, a clove of garlic, three cloves, a bay leaf, thyme, basil, some salt and pepper. When it is done let it drain, wipe off the fat with a cloth, and serve with a sauce made in the following manner : — Put a tumblerful of stock, and nearly the same quantity of cuUis, into a stew- pan, with some capers and anchovies, a little parsley, a shallot, and the yolk of an egg boiled hard. Let the sauce boil a few minutes, and serve it with the mutton. MUTTON, LEG OF (1 la Bourgeoise). Take a nice round leg of mutton, bone it, and lard the inside of it with lardons rolled in salt, pepper, and spices ; tie it up into its original form, and put it into a braising-pan, with a dozen carrots, a dozen onions, as many potatoes, two bay leaves, two cloves, parsley, scallions, and a ladleful of stock or water; add to these 1 lb. of bacon cut into six pieces, and a little salt. Simmer the whole or three hours and a half, stirring it occasionally. At the end of that time take out the mutton, untie, and dish it with the vegetables round it. MUTTON, LEG OF (Braised). Take a very small leg of mutton, cut off the knuckle, and trim it nicely; half roast it, then put it into a stewpan, with the knuckle bone broken, the trimmings, a few slices of fat bacon or 2 ozs. of butter, an onion stuck with cloves, and a bundle of sweet herbs. Shake the stewpan over the fire till there is gravy enough from the meat and the trimmings to stew the mutton, and take care to turn it in the braise. When very tender take it up, remove the fat from the gravy, strain it, and boil it quickly until it is reduced to a glaze ; pour it over the mutton, and serve it up with a puree of vegetables beneath. MUTTON, LEG OF (a i^Espagxcle). Bone a leg of mutton to the knuckle, lard it quite through with large pieces of bacon, and season ■with salt and spices ; then put it into a braising- pan, with about a dozen onions and a pint of white wine; cover it with paper, and put it in the oven. When half doue turn it, add half a dozen short sausages, cover it again, and finish the baking. Garnish the meat, when served, with onion; skim and strain the liquor, squeeze over it the juice of two oranges, and pour it on the mutton. MUTTON, LEG OF (Marinated). Lard the upper part of a leg of mutton, and let it soak for about twelve hours in a warm pickle of water, vinegar, gai'lic, cloves, onions, thyme, bay leaves, parsley, salt, and pepper. After it has been this time in soak roast it, basting it with the pickle. Serve with a high-flavoured sauce ; or, if you like it better, pass the marinade through a sieve, reduce it over the fire to the consistence of a sauce, add a little butter to thicken it, and serve. If you intend to use your marinade for a sauce you must pat in a very small quantity of salt. MUTTON, LEG OF (Stuffed). Take a leg of mutton, cut off all the fat, take the bone carefully out, and preserve the skin whole; take out the meat, mince it finely, and mix and mince with it about 1 lb. of fat bacon and some parsley; season the whole well with pepper and salt, and a small quantity of shallots or chives chopped fine; then put the meat into the skin, and sew it up neatly on the under side ; tie it up in a cloth, and put it into a stewpan, with two or three slices of veal, some sliced carrots and onions, a bunch of parsley, and a few slices of fat bacon. Let it stew for three or four hours, and drain the liquor through a fine sieve. When reduced to a glaze, glaze the mutton with it, and serve in stewed French beans. MUTTON, LEG OF (Stuffed with Oysters). Make a forcemeat of beef suet chopped small, the yolks of hard-boiled eggs, with three anchovies, a little onion, thyme, savory, and a dozen or fourteen oysters (all cut fine), some salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and prumbs of bread, mixed up with raw eggs. Put