PAR PAR [ 297 ] look fresh and wholesome, however dirty they may have become; but if they are painted in distemper this cannot be done. Walls are frequently injured by the insertion of nails for suspending pictures. This should never be per- mitted on any account whatever : the nails may be so placed in connection with the cornice as to avoid disfiguring the walls, and pictures may be hung with perfect ease, by means of ribbon or cord, in any required position. Walls per- forated by nails have a most slovenly appearance, and betray a total want of taste and care. Even in papered rooms nails should be placed close to the cornice, if there is one, or so near the ceiling as to injure the walls in the least possible degree. Pictures should not be allowed to rest against the walls : small pieces of wood or slices of cork should be fixed behind them, on opposite sides, to allow of the free admission of air; and they should occasionally be carefully raised, and the space behind them dusted, to prevent tlie accumulation of cobwebs and dust. Light-coloured papers are best for bedrooms; they look clean and cheerful. Jfothing that is dark and dingy should be chosen where light and cleanliness are so essential; and dark papers sometimes give the idea of dirt, when it is far from being the case. Closets—especially where dresses hang.—should be papered too: the lighter the colour of the paper the more easily are dust and cobwebs detected. In unpapered closets chinks harbour spiders, and bits of mortar break away; but whgn papered they aj^'e neat and clean. PARALYSIS. See Apoplexy and Palsy, PARCHMENT. To facilitate writing on this roughen it with fine sand paper, or rub its surface with chalk or whiting. PAREGORIC ELIXIR. See Elixir, Paeegokic. PARFAIT AMOUR (1). This very agi-eeable cordial is thus prepared :—Soak for seven days the peels of twelve lemons in two gallons of rectified spirit of wine; then add one quart of water, and distil over gently two gallons. Add to these their weight of simple syrup, and a little powdered cochineal tied up in a muslin bag to impart colour. PARFAIT AMOUR (2). Take very fine fresh cedrats, pare them very thin, and infuse them, with \ oz. of fine cinnamon and 4 ozs. of coriander, in three gallons of strong brandy and a quart of water for a week or ten days, when distil it in the bain-marie. This quantity of brandy, if good, will yield two gallons and half a pint of spirit. Dissolve 3^ lbs. of sugar in seven pints of river water, cover it with cochi- neal, then add it to the spirit; filter and tottle it. PARFAIT AMOUR SOUFFLfi. Rub upon 1 lb. of loaf sugar the zests of two lemons and two large cedrats, scraping off' the surface as it becomes coloured; infuse this sugar irt nine glasses of boiling hot milk, with the addi- tion of a dozen cloves, for half an hour. Strain the infusioti through a napkin, mix it with the usual ingredients, and finish as directed. PARFAIT AMOUR, TRANSPARENT JELLY OF, Pare the rinds of two lemons and a cedrat as thin as possible, and infuse them, with half a dozen cloves bruised, in a boiling syrup made with 12 drachms of sugar. Add a little cochineal to make it of a delicate rose colour. When cold mix with the infusion half a glass of kirschwasser, filter, and put 1 oz, of isinglass to it. PARLIAMENT CAKES. Put into a sauce- pan 2 lbs. of treacle, and when it boils add \ lb. of butter, and pour it upon 2 lbs, of flour ; add a little alum, a bit of pearlash about the size of a nut, and 1 oz. of ginger; work it well with the hand till quite smooth, and let it stand a day and a night; then roll it out very thin, and cut it into oblong cakes. PARSLEY, FRIED. Pick some parsley (but not very fine), wash it well, and put it on a sieve to drain. After the fish, croquettes, &c., are fried, while the fat is very hot, put in the parsley, stir it about with a cullender spoon for a minute, and then spread it out on a sheet of paper. This is genei'ally used for croquettes or fried fish. PARSLEY SAUCE. Take a handful of parsley, and having washed and picked it, pound it well; put it into a stewpan with some good cullis, set it on the fire, and let it simmer for a quarter of an hour; then strain it, add a bit of butter rolled in flour, a liaison, and a little lemon juice. PARSNIP FRITTERS. Boil six parsnips till tender; then skin and mash thein ; mix them with one or two eggs well beaten, and two tea- spoonsful of wheat flour. Make them up in small cakes, and fry them in a little lard or beef gravy, made boiling hot before the cakes are put in. A little salt should be added to the lard or gravy. PARSNIP WINE. To every 4 lbs. of parsnips, cleaned and quartered, put one gallon of water; boil them till quite tender; drain them through a sieve, but do not bruise them, as no remedy would clear them afterwards; pour the liquor into a tub, and to each gallop ' add 3 lbs. of loaf sugar and ^ oz. of crude tartar. When cooled to the temperature of 75° put in a little new yeast, let it stand four days in a warm room, and then turn it. PARSNIPS, BOILED. Let them boil in plenty of water with salt till tender, and then