YEN VEN 535 ] stirring till thick and browii, taldng cave it does not burn ; sift in ^ lb. of finely powdered sugar, and put in the gravy produced by the bones, with some port wine; give the whole the con- sistence of cream, squeeze thereto the juice of a lemon, warm the venison in it, put it in a dish, and pour the sauce over it. VENISON : To Keep. The haunch is the finest joint; but there is a kernel in the fat like that in a leg of mutton, which must be taken out, and, after wiping the part very dry, a little ground pepper and ginger must be rubbed on the outside to keep off the flies. The neck is the second best joint, which re- quires nothing but wiping well with a clean cloth. The shoulder and breast are generally used two or three days after they are killed for a pasty. The park-keeper is generally in the habit of drawing the shoulder, which is sure to spoil the neck. The shoulder, in fact, ought not to be taken off until quite cold, and then be raised the same as that of mutton. The good effects of charcoal in preventing putrescency, and sometimes remedying where the taint has already taken place, cannot be too clearly known ; for even fish, as well as flesh, may be restored by boiling with it. With respect to poultry and game, when the weather is warm a stopper of charcoal placed in the vent will have a salutary effect, tying at the same time a string round the neck. VENISON: To Stew. Let it hang some days, then take out the bones, beat the meat with a rolling-pin, lay some slices of mutton fat that have been previously soaked in port wine about it, sprinkle a little pepper and powdered allspice over it, roll it up tightly, and fasten it securely; put the meat into a stewpan that will just hold it, with some weak mutton or beef gravy, half a pint of port wine, and some more pepper and allspice ; cover it closely, and let it simmer slowly for three or four hours, stewing the bone with it. When done unbind the meat, place it in a dish, and strain the gravy over it. Serve with sweet sauce. VENISON, BREAST OF. Either roast or fry it; put some gravy into a stewpan, with a little flour, red wine, currant jelly, and a little lemon juice; boil these together, put in the venison, let it heat without boiling, and serve. VENISON IN COLLOPS. Cut part of the haunch of venison into collops, which beat with the back of a knife, and lard them with small lardons; shred some thyme, rosemary, spinach, and other sweet herbs, and mix them with suet chopped fine, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and the yolks of eggs; spread this farce over the collops, roll them up, tie them round, and roast them; place a dish under them to receive the gravy, pour claret into it, and when tho collops are nearly done put the dish on hot ashes, with grated bread, cinnamon, and a little sugar; stir them together, add a ladleful of clarified butter, put in the collops of venison, and serve very hot, with a sauce made as follows : —Take of claret, water, and vinegar, a glass each, put in them an onion stuck with cloves, two or three anchovies, a spoonful of salt, the same of pepper, and of cloves also; give the whole a boil, and then strain it. VENISON CUTLETS. Cut and pare them nicely, and marinate them for twelve or fifteen hours; dry, and put them in a frying- pan with oil or clarified butter, and cook them over a brisk fire ; let them be sufficiently done, and serve with gravy, port wine, and currant jell.y. VENISON, HASHED. Warm it in its own gravy. If there is no fat left take some slices of mutton fat, set them on the fire with a little port wine and sugar, and simmer till dry; then add to it the hash. VENISON, HAUNCH OF: To Boil. Let it lie a week in salt, and then boil it in a floured cloth, allowing a quarter of an hour to eveiy pound. For sauce, boil in milk and water some cauliflowers pulled into sprigs, with white cabbage and turnips cut into dice, and beet-root sliced. First lay a sprig of cauli- flower and some of the turnips mashed witli cream and butter, next the cabbage that has been beaten in a saucepan with a little butter and salt, then cauliflower, and so on till the dish is full. Intermix the beet-root here and there to variegate the appearance. Serve with melted butter. A neck may be done in the same manner, and both will eat well the next day hashed, with gravy and sweet sauce. VENISON, HAUNCH OF: To Carve. See C.'iRviNG : Venison, Haunch of. VENISON, HAUNCH OF : To Roast. If It is a buck, and of large size, the haunch will take four hours, and a smaller one three hours and a quarter; but that of a doe will require a quarter of an hour less. All venison should be rather underdone. Take a large sheet of clean writing paper, butter it, sprinkle it with salt, and place it over the fat, then lay thereon a coarse paste, and with it cover the haunch, which must be set at some distance from the fire ; baste it frequently, and ten minutes before serving take off the paper, place the meat nearer the fire, and baste it well with butter and flour to raise a froth. The best gravy for venison is that made from the joint itself; but, if not sufficient, stew a scrag or part of a loin of mutton for the purpose till a quart is reduced to a pint; season it with salt alone, and serve with currant jelly in a sauce-boat. A neck or