[ 18B ] MAN MAN delightful walks and rides, tempting the invalid to active exercise, and its exhilarating influence ou the animal spirits, arising from these cir- cumstances, constitute important auxiliaries in the cure of diseases, and powerful attractions to its fountain of health. The village of Ilkley, in Yorkshire, ahout sixteen miles west from Thorp-Arch, possesses in its vicinity a spring similar in purity to the Malvern. It is, consequently, appropriate to the same diseases. MANDARIN'S DELIGHT. To make this cordial take proof spirit of wine, 1 gallon ; water, 5 quarts; white sugar, 4 lbs. ; seeds of anise and seeds of musk [Hibiscm abelmoschus), of each, bruised, J oz. ; safflower, J oz. Put the whole into a two-gallon stone bottle; cork it tightly; shake daily for a fortnight; then strain. MANGANESE is a mineral found in the Mendip Hills. It is the black oxide of manga- nesium. Considerable quantities of manganese are employed in glass-works for purifying glass, as it destroys the effects of colouring substances, and renders vitrified matters perfectly clear, from which property it has received the appella- tion of soap of glass. Farther, it imparts to a large quantity of glass, in a state of fusion, a purplish or reddish tinge, that disappears if continued in the fire. Manganese likewise communicates various tints to warm water, such as green, purple, red, blue, &c., which change on agitating that fluid. When distilled with the muriatic acid this mineral yields hydro- chloric acid, or bleaching liquor of Berthollet. It is also employed for glazing earthenware, which thus acquires a black colour. After being calcined in a strong fire it has been recommended medicinally as an astringent. MANGE. See Dog. MANGLING. This is done with everything that is straight, such as sheets, tablecloths, napkins, and silk pocket-handkerchiefs. Waist- coats or trousers must not be mangled on account of their buttons, which would get broken in mangling, and might also cut or otherwise injure the garment; and things with plaits and folds could not be made to look smooth when mangled. In placing things in the mangle care must be taken that every- thing is laid quite smooth. Table linen, sheets, and all things that are large enough, should be put upon the rollers very smooth and tight, and rolled on from end to end with the mangling cloth on the outside; but small things should be laid upon the cloth, and rolled on together with it: any creases that remain in them must be ironed out before being put to air. Best table linen should be twice mangled, that is, be taken off the roller, and put on again the reverse way; but for all other things once is sufficient. As mangled clothes require more airing than ironed ones, it is very necessary to do the mangling first. Cotton stockings may be either mangled or ironed: if the former, the right side outwards; if the latter, on the wrong. MANGOES, CUCUMBER: To Pickle. The proper cucumbers to be used for this pur- pose are those of the largest sort, which must be taken from the vines before they are too ripe or yellow at the ends. Cut a piece out of the side, and take out the seeds with an apple- scraper or a tea-spoon; then put them into very strong salt and water for eight or nine days, or till they are yellow; stir them well two or three times every day, and put them into a pan, with a large quantity of vine leaves both over and under tkem. Beat a little roche alum till very fine, and put it into the salt and water they came out of; pour it on the cucumbers, and set them upon a very slow fire for four or five hours till they are pretty green ; then take them out, drain them in a hair sieve, and when they are cold put to them a little horseradish, then mustard seed, two or three heads of garlic, a few peppercorns, a few green cucumbers sliced in small pieces, then horseradish, and the same as before mentioned till you have filled them; then take the piece you cut out, sew it on with a large needle and thread, and do all the rest in the same manner. Have ready the following pickle :—To every gallon of vinegar put 1 oz. of mace, the same of cloves, 2 ozs. of sliced ginger, the same of long pepper and Jamaica pepper, 3 ozs. of mustard seed tied in a bag, 4 ozs. of garlic, and a stick of horseradish cut in slices. Boil them five minutes in the vinegar, then pour it upon your pickles, tie them down closely, and keep them for use. MANGOES, MELON : To Pickle. Cut a square piece out of the side of a melon, extract the seeds, and mix them with mustard seed and slired garlic; stuff the melon full, replace the piece in the side, and bind it up with thread. Boil a quantity of vinegar with pepper, salt, and ginger, and pour it quite hot over the mangoes four days successively, adding at the last flour of mustard and scraped horseradish to the vinegar just when it comes to the boil. Cover the melon slices closely with plenty of vinegar. MANGOES, ONION: To Pickle. Cutout the bottom of onions so large that they will admit the heart being scooped out, replace the tops, and put them in strong brine ; leave them ten days, take them out, and have a mango pickle prepared as above. Fill and finish them, putting some minced onions that have been steeped in brine, with a clove of garlic, two or three shallots, mustard seed, and ginger, into each. MANNA. This very mild purgative is pro-