INO IND I 67 ] afflicted must avoid drinking just before going to bed. They ought also to empty the bladder at the hour of repose. INCUBUS, or Nightmaee. In this disease the patient, in time of sleep, imagines he feels an uncommon oppression of weight about his breast or stomach, which he can by no means shake off. He groans, and sometimes cries out, though oftener he attempts to speak in vain. Sometimes he imagines himself engaged with an enemy, and in danger of being killed, attempts to run away, but finds he cannot. Sometimes he fancies himself in a house that is on fire, or that he is in danger of being drowned in a river. He often thinks he is falling over a precipice, and the dread of being dashed to pieces suddenly awakes him. This disorder has been supposed to proceed from too much blood, from a stagnation of blood in the brain, lungs, &c.; but it is rather a nervous affection, and arises chiefly from indi- gestion. Hence we find that persons of weak nerves, who lead a sedentary life, and live full, are most commonly afflicted with the night- mare. Nothing tends more to produce it than heavy suppers, especially when eaten late, or the patient goes to bed soon after. Wind is likewise a very frequent cause of this disease, for which reason those who are afSicted with it ought to avoid all flatulent food. Deep thought, anxiety, or anything that oppresses the mind, ought also to be avoided. Sailors are very liable to this disease. Hypochondriacs and preg- nant women are also its victims, but males more frequently than females. The nightmare is frequently occasioned oy eating a full meal of animal food, and drinking freely of fermented liquor, after long fasting and bodily fatigue, by which the whole system I is debilitated, and the digestive faculties conse- li quently impaired. When in this state the safest thing a person can take is tea, with bread and butter, which will be found to alleviate fatigue much more completely than wine. As persons afflicted with the nightmare gene- rally moan or make some noise in the fit, they should be awakened or spoken to by such as hear them, as the uneasiness generally goes off as soon as the patient is awake. Dr. Whyte says he generally found a dram of brandy taken at bedtime prevent this disease. That, however, is a bad custom, and in time loses its effect. We would rather have the patient depend upon the use of food of easy digestion, cheerfulness, exercise through the day, and a light supper taken early, than to accustom himself to drams. A glass of peppernrint water will often promote digestion as much as a glass of brandy, and is much safer. After a person of weak digestion, however, has eaten flatulent food, a dram may be necessary: in this case we would recommend it as the most proper medicine. When the nightmare goes off, as frequently is the case, without the patient awaking, strange aberrations of mind are occasionally produced, which give origin to reputed visions and super- natural visitations, even among people of supe- rior intellectual cultivation. The degree of consciousness during a paroxysm of nightmare is so much greater than ever happens in a dream, that the person who has had a vision of this kind cannot easily bring himself to acknow- ledge the deceit unless he awakes, or is aroused from his paroxysm, and discovers some incon- gruity in respect to time or place, which proves the transaction to be an illusion. Persons who are young and full of blood, if troubled with the nightmare, ought to take a purge frequently, use a spare diet, and exercise in the open air. The bicarbonate of potash, mixed with ale or porter, forms an agreeable beverage for those liable to dyspeptic symptoms and incubus. INDIAN CUBBUB. Cut a loin of mutton into nice chops, season them highly, spit them with a large onion between the chops, roast them at or over a clear fire, and serve them hot with cutcheree. INDIAN CUTCHEREE. Steep a pint of split peas, and add a large tea-cupt'ul of rice, with an onion, ginger, pepper, mace, and salt; boil till the peas and rice are swelled and tender, but not clammy, and stir them with a fork till the water is wasted. Serve up in a dish, garnished with hard eggs and whole boUed onions. The stirring it with a fork is to pre- vent the grains being broken. INDIAN INK is made of real lampblack, which is the soot formed during the burning of linseed oil. This soot is ground into a paste with gum and infusion of nut-galls. If required to be liquid more of the infusion is added, but if required in the form of cakes more soot is added to make the paste thick, and it is then dried in the sun. INDIAN MEAL BREAD. Mix one quart of Indian meal with enough boiling milk or water to make a very stiff batter; stir in a tea- cupful of molasses and a tea-spoonful of salt, with half a tea-spoonful of saleratus dissolved in a little hot water. Let the mixture stand till it is lukewarm, then add a gill of baker's yeast, stir it well together, and let it stand in a warm place to rise for two hours; then fill buttered basins to the depth of an inch with the mixture, bake it an hour in a moderate oven, and serve it hot. INDIAN MEAL CAKES. Stir to a cream 1J lb. of brown sugar and 1 lb. of butter; beat six eggs, and mix them with the sugar and butter;