JEL JEL r 83 ] vious heating to which it has been exposed. When it is inclined to set, which is ascertained in the usual way, pour it into small jars, and in a few weeks it will be in high order. JELLY, GLOUCESTER. Take 1 oz. of rice, the same of sago, pearl barley, hartshorn shavings, and eryngo root; simmer with three pints of water till reduced to one pint, strain it, and when cold it will be a jelly. When you use it serve dissolved in wine, milk, or broth. JELLY, ICED. See Iced Jelly. JELLY, ISINGLASS. See Isinglass Jellt. JELLY, ITALIAN. Make a wine or calfs- foot jelly, with which half fill the mould. When thoroughly set take some Italian cream that has been turned out of a plain mould, cut it into slices, and afterwards cut it with a middling-sized round cutter; lay these pieces of cream in a circle round your jelly, and when all are arranged put in very gently enough jelly to cover them. When that is set fill up your mould, and when wanted turn it out the same as any other jelly. JELLY, IVORY. Boil 1 lb. of ivory dust in five pints of water till reduced to a quart; strain it, add one quart more water to the dust, and boil till reduced to a pint; then strain it again, squeeze in some orange or lemon juice, and sweeten according to taste. JELLY - MAKING.- {See Calf's-Feet Jelly.) The mechanical precautions necessary are to strain the jelly while hot through a bag shaped like the letter V. The bag must be kept before a fire, to preserve the jelly in a liquid state during the straining. The bag is to be made of flannel, and kept open at the mouth by a small loop. j To get the jelly, when cold, unbroken out of i the moulds into which it has been pouref^, requires somewhat different treatment according i to the material of which it is made. A jelly ; mould may be made either of common tin, ! block tin, or of white earthen or stone ware. If of one or other of the two first-mentioned materials, before the jelly is turned out the outer surface of the mould should be rapidly wiped with a napkin dipped in hot water; if the mould is of earthenware it should itself be dipped for an instant up to the edges in hot i water. The jelly will then turn out well, pro- vided it be well set, cold, and stiff. JELLY, MULLED. Take a table-spoon- ful of currant or grape jelly, and beat in it the white of an egg and a little loaf sugar; pour on it half a pint of boiling water, and break into it a slice of dry toast or two crackers. JELLY OF PIGS' FEET AND EARS. Having cleaned the feet and ears, boil them in a vei7 little water till they are so tender that the bones will come out easily Season with chopped sage, parsley, pepper, salt, and mace. Simmer till the herbs are scalded, and then pour off the whole into a dish. JELLY, PRINTANIERE. Clarify f lb. of sugar and I oz. of isinglass as directed for each, and having prepared your fruits or flowers, mix them with the sugar when no more than lukewarm; strain the mixture through a silk sieve, add the isinglass, stir lightly with a silver spoon, and put it into a mould. Take about 10 lbs. of ice, break it up, put it into a tub or pail, in which immerse the mould for three hours; then take out the mould, dip it into hot water as quickly as possible, and turn the jelly into a dish for table. JELLY PUFFS. Take a broad pan, and put into it a pint of rich milk and ^ lb. of the best fresh butter. Cut up the butter in the milk, and if in cold weather set it in a warm place on the stove, or on the hearth near the fire, till the butter is quite soft, but do not allow it to melt or oil—it must be merely warmed so as to soften; then take it off, anl with a knife stir the butter well through tha milk till thoroughly mixed. Have ready J lb. of fine flour sifted into a deep dish. In a broad pan beat eight eggs with a whisk till they are very light and thick; then stir the beaten egg into the pan of milk and butter in turn with the sifted flour, a little at a time of each. Stir the whole very hard, and then put the mixture into buttered tea-cups, filling them only two-thirds. Set them immediately into a brisk oven, and bake them twenty minutes or more, till they are well browned and puffed up lightly; then take them from the oven, and with a knife open a slit in the side of each puff, and cirefully put in with a spoon sufficient fruit jelly or marmalade to fill up the inside or cavity; afterwards close the slit, and press it together with your fingers. As you fill the puffi lay each on a large dish, and before they go to table sift powder sugar over them. Eat them cold. If properly made they will be found delicious. JELLY, RESTORATIVE. Beat and break the bone of a leg of pork just as it is cut up, set it over a slow fire with, three gallons of water, and let it simmer ; put in i oz. of mace, with the same quantity of nutmeg ; strain it off, and when cold clear it of the fat. Take a good-sized cupful the first thing in the morn- ing, again at noon, and the last thing at night. JELLY, RIBBON. Boil four calves' feet, without the great bones, in ten quarts of water, 3 ozs. of hartshorn, 3 ozs. of isinglass, a nutmeg quartered, and four blades of mace. Boil till it is reduced to two quarts, strain it through a flannel bag, and when it has stood twenty-four hours scrape off all the fat very clean, slice the