HIC [ ^1 ] HER them along tlie back, and open them ; lay them on a dish, and pour oil over thera; broil them on both sides (two or three seconds are sufi&cient), take them off, and serve them instantly. HERRINGS, RED (a la Beuxelloise). Make a case with thick paper, butter it well, and lay in it eight or ten herrings prepared as follows:—Cut off the heads and tails, take away the bones and skins, and cut them lengthwise into two fillets; put between the fillets a piece of butter mixed with sweet herbs, some mushrooms, parsley, scallions, shallots, garlic, pepper, and olive oil; sprinkle them pretty thiclily with raspings, broil them gently over a slow fire so as not to burn the paper, in which they must be served whilst very hot, with lemon ■juice squeezed over them. HERRINGS, RED (with Herbs). Take the best red herrings, skin them, and remove the heads and tails ; cut them into fillets length- wise, and soak them in milk for four hours ; then drain and put them into a saucepan, with some butter, a little oil, parsley, and sweet herbs shred small, salt, and pepper; let them simmer for an hour and a half, take oS the fat, and serve them hot. If the sauce be too thick add a little orange juice. HERRINGS, RED (A l'Italienne). Soak the herrings to take out the salt, open and clean them well, flour them inside and outside, fry them in butter and oil, and serve them laid on fried parsley. HERRINGS, SOFT ROES OF (en Caisses). Make a paper case to fit the dish you intend to use, spread butter over the bottom of it, and broil eight soft-roed herrings. When done take out the roes very carefully, and lay them in the case; sprinkle pepper, salt, grated bread, and shred parsley over thera ; butter and bake them in a hot oven. When done pour a maitre d'hotel and the juice of a lemon into the case. Serve them very hot. HERRINGS, STEWED. Clean and put the herrings into a fish kettle with a sufficient quantity of stock to cover them; add two or three cloves, a carrot, peppercorns, an onion, a clove of garlic, a bay leaf, parsley, and half a bottle of port wine. Stew the fish in this till done; then take them out, keep them hot, strain, and reduce the liquor with a little sauce iournee; then pass it through a tammy into another stewpau, stir in a little butter and lemon juice, dish your herrings, and pour this sauce over them. HESKETH'S PILLS. See Ceespigny's (Lady) Pills. HESSIAN SOUP AND RAGOtlT. Clean well with salt and water the roof of a neat's tongue and half an ox's head, after which set them to soak for some time; then stew the whole together in five or six quarts of water till tliey are tolerably tender; set the soup aside to cool, and take off all the fat, which will prove serviceable in making meat pies or for basting ; add to the soup a pint of split peas or a quart of whole ones, twelve carrots, six turnips, as many potatoes and onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, and two heads of celery. Simmer the vegetables without the meat till they are done, so as to pass with the peas in a state of amalgamation through a sieve, in which case the soup itself will be of the consistence of cream ; season it well with pepper, salt, mace, allspice, a clove or two, and some Cayenne, all finely pulverised. Should the peas be hard the soup will require thickening, in which case boil therein a slice of roll, and pass it through a cullender; or you may add a little rice flour, mixing it gradually. For the ragoiit cut the best part of the head, the kernels, and some pieces of fat of the root of the tongue, into small but thick pieces ; rub them with some of the seasoning just mentioned, and then put them into a quart of soup that has been set apart for the purpose before the vegetables were added; flour the whole well, and simmer till it is perfectly tender; then put in some mushroom and walnut catsup, a little soy, a glass of port wine, and a tea-spoon- ful of made mustard, and boil the whole together before you serve it up at table. Small eggs and forcemeat balls may be added for company. HICCOUGH, or Hiccup. This is a spas- modic affection proceeding from various causes, such as acidity in the stomach, which is mostly the cause of the complaint in infants, for which a little magnesia or prepai^ed chalk is the most proper medicine, with the addition of a drop of oil of aniseed. In these cases it is a primary affection, that is, not having its origin from any other complaint: it is not attended with danger. A common hiccup may often be removed by taking a few small draughts of cold water in quick succession, or by the sudden excitement of some degree of fear or surprise. When such simple means as these do not succeed, ether, musk, and opium will prove most useful, either combined or given separately. In the accidental hiccup of youth or very old people a small quantity of any powerful acid may be given, such as a tea-spoonful of vinegar or lemon juice, or a little peppermint water, acidulated with a few drops of diluted sul- phuric acid. When the hiccups are violent as well as obstinate a large plaster of Venice treacle applied to the stomach sometimes affords relief, and, should this fail, a blister may supply its place. In hiccups arising at the close of any acute or malignant disease, or in consequence of a