ONI [ 270 ] OPA with some cream, a piece of butter, a little flour, some pepper, and salt. The sauce must be served very smooth. ONION SAUCE (-2). The onions must be peeled and boiled till they are tender; then squeeze the water from them, chop them, and add to them butter that has been melted, rich and smooth, with a little good milk instead of water; give the whole one boil, and serve it with boiled rabbits, partridges, scrag or knuckle of veal, or roast mutton. A turnip boiled with the onions draws out their sti'ength. ONION SAUCE, BROWN. Peel and slice the onions (some put in an equal quantity of cucumber or celery) into a quart stewpan, with 1 oz. of butter; set it over a slow fire, and turn the onion about till it is very lightly browned; then gradually stir in | oz. of flour; add a little broth and a little pepper and salt, and boil up for a few minutes ; add a table-spoonful of claret or port wine, and some mushroom catsup (you may add, if you think proper, a little lemon juice and vinegar), and rub it through a tammy or fine sieve. ONION SOUP. Put into the water in which a leg or neck of mutton has been boiled some carrots, turnips, and a shank-bone, and let them simmer for a couple of hours. Strain the liquor on half a dozen onions, first sliced and fried of a light brown ; simmer the whole for three hours, skim it carefully, and serve. Put in a little roll or fried bread. ONIONS : To Boil. After they are peeled boil them in milk and water: if small, they will cook in half an hour. When they are done pour off the water, put in cream, butter, and salt, and let them stew a few minutes. Small onions are much better for cooking, as they are not so strong. ONIONS: To Keep. Onions should be pulled up as soon as the tops are nearly dead. They are then to be dried in the sun, and kept in an airy place. If they begin to sprout, sear the roots with a hot iron, which will check vegetation. ONIONS : To Pickle (I). The small, round, silver-skinned onions, about as big as a nutmeg, make a nice pickle. Take off their top coats, and have ready a stewpan three parts filled with boiling water, into which put as many onions as will cover the top. As soon as they look clear take them up with a spoon full of holes, lay them on a cloth three times folded, and cover them with another till you have ready as many as you wish. When they are quite dry put them into jars, and cover them with hot pickle, made by infusing 1 oz. of horse- radish, the same of each of allspice, black pepper, and salt, in a quart of best white wine vinegar in a stone jar, on a trivet by the side of the fire, for three days, keeping it well closed. When cold bung them down tightly, and cover them with bladder wetted with the pickle, and leather. ONIONS : To Pickle (2). Peel the onions till they look white; boil some strong salt and water, pour it over them, and let them stand in this twenty-four hours, keeping the vessel closely covered to retain the steam. After that time wipe the onions quite dry, and when they are cold pour boiling vinegar, with ginger and white pepper, over them. Take care the vinegar always covers the onions. ONIONS, BAKED OR ROASTED. Put them as taken from the store-room into a tin, and bake in a moderate oven, or roast in a Dutch oven. Serve with cold butter in a small plate. The outer peel should not be removed until the onions are to be eaten. ONIONS, GARBURE OF. Take about forty onions, cut them in quarters, which divide into two or three slices (having taken off the skins, heads, and stalks); put about ^ lb. of butter into a pan, and when it is melted fry the onions in it of a nice clear colour. Then have some bread cut in thin slices, place a layer of this on a dish, then a layer of onions, and so on alternately until the dish is quite full, strewing pepper and salt between each. Pour some stock over the whole, and set it on the fire to simmer till the gratin is formed, taldng great care not to let it burn, as that will make it bitter, but all the moisture must be completely dried up. Have some broth in a separate dish, and serve it. ONIONS, RAGOUT OF. Peel a pint of small onions, and take four large ones, and cut them very small; then melt J lb. of butter in a stewpan, and when it has done hissing put in the onions, and fiy them a light brown; then sprinkle in a little flour, and shake them round till they are thick; add a little salt, a little beaten pepper, a quarter of a pint of good gravy, and a tea-spoonful of mustard ; stir all well together, and when well flavom'ed,and of a good thickness, pour it into a dish, and garnish with fried bread crumbs. ONIONS, STEWED. Peel half a dozen onions, and fry them gently a nice brown, taking care not to blacken them ; then put them into a small stewpan, with a little weak gravy, pepper, and salt; cover them, and let them stew gently for two hours. Lightly flour them at first. OPAL. One of the most beautiful produc- tions of the mineral world. It is a compound of about 89 of silica, 1 of peroxide of iron, and 10 of water, and is distinguished by its very brilliant display of colour. The finest specimens come exclusively from Hungary. There is a variety called hydrophane, which is white and