r 308 ] PAS PAS it with rose or orange-flower water; beat it, and make it veiy smooth; cover small tart-pans, and cut out flat or raised covers : if raised they may be baked on tart-paus turned up. These covers ought to be very open. Do not fill them till wanted, or put them into the oven with any cream or custard, all kinds of frangipanes, fried CrGSiTUS &c PASTE,' TRANSPARENT. Rub i lb. of fresh butter into i lb. of flour, sift in 1 oz. of double-refined sugar through a lawn sieve, and make it into a paste with two spoonsful of sweet ■wine and a spoonful of orange-flower water. Work it as lightly as possible, scarcely touching it, roll it out very thin, and form it into tops and bottoms for tarts. They must be baked in a very slow oven, as their beauty depends upon their whiteness. They should be kept in the pans they are baked in till used, as they are so apt to break. Fill them with sweetmeats. They will do in the mouth of the oven, as they must not have the least colour. A little lemon juice may be added. PASTILS, FUMIGATING. These are burned either to diffuse a refreshing pei'fume or to overcome ill odours. They are made as follows :—Gum benzoin, 1 oz.; balsam of tolu, J oz.; yellow sandal wood, J oz.; laudanum, i drachm ; nitre, I drachm; fine charcoal powder, 3 ozs. Mix them into a stiff paste with a solu- tion of gum tragacanth. Of this paste make small flat-based cones, and dry them thoroughly. Light the small end when required. Or, take gum benzoin, 1 oz.; cascarilla powder, 1 oz.; nitre, f oz.; myrrh in powder, J drachm; oil of nutmeg and cloves, of each 7 drops; finely powdered charcoal, 1| oz. Mix into a mass as before directed. Musk and civet should not be used, because, •when burnt, they smell disagreeably. PASTILS FOR THE MOUTH. These are used to conceal the reek of tobacco, or other ill smell of the breath. Take of extract of liquorice H oz.; oil of cloves, J drachm, oil of (Snnamon, 7 drops. Mix into a mass, and divide into one-grain pills. They are silvered for sale. .i PASTRY. The art of making paste requires aigood memory, practice, and dexterity; for it is principally from the method of mixing the various ingredients of which it is composed that paste acquires its good or bad qualities. ^ ■'Before making paste wash the hands in hot ^&.ter. Touch the paste as little as possible, and Boll it but little—the less the better. If paste b& much wetted it will be tough. nsA marble slab is better than a board to make paste on: both, together with the rolling-pin, cutters, and tins, should be kept very clean, as ihe least dust or hard paste left on either will spoil the whole. The coolest part of the house and of the day should be chosen for the process during warm weather. Flour for the finest paste should be dried and sifted, as should pounded white sugar. Butter should be added to paste in very small pieces unless otherwise directed. If fresh butter be not used, break salt butter into pieces, wash it well in spring water to cleanse it from salt, squeeze it carefully, and dry it upon a soft cloth. Fresh butter should also be well worked to get out the buttermilk. After the butter has been pressed and worked well with a wooden knife on the paste board, press it very lightly with a clean soft cloth to absorb the moisture. If good fresh butter is used it will require very little working, if any. Lard is sometimes used instead of butter, but the saving is of very trifling importance when it is considered that, although lard will make paste light, it will neither be of such good colour nor flavour as when made with butter. Dripping, especially from beef, when very sweet and clean, is often used for kitchen pies, and is, in this instance, a good substitute for butter, lard, &c. In hot weather the butter should be broken to pieces, and put into spring water or into ice ; but on no account put the paste into ice, else the butter in it will harden, and, in baking, melt and separate from the paste. The same thing happens in winter when the butter has not been suflSciently worked, and the paste is rather soft; for, though the season be favourable to the making of paste, care must be taken to work the butter sufficiently. In winter paste should be made very finn, because the butter is then so. In summer the paste should be made soft, as the butter is then the same. It is important to work up paste lightly and gradually into a uniform body, no strength nor pressure being used. It is necessary to lightly flour both sides of paste when you roll it, in order to prevent its turning grey in baking; but if much flour is sprinkled on it the paste will not be clear. Attention to the rolling out is important in making light puff paste : if it be too light it may be rolled out once or twice more than directed, as the folding mainly causes it to rise high and even. Be sure invariably to roll puff paste from you. Those who are not practised in making puff paste should work the butter in by breaking it into small pieces, and covering the paste rolled out; dredge it lightly with flour, fold over the sides and ends, roll it out very thin, add the remainder of the butter, and fold and roll as before. To insure lightness paste should be set in tha