ULC TYP [ 517 ] clianged, and whenever the patient has a motion it ought to be instantaneously removed. For preventing putrid fevers we would re- commend a strict regard to cleanliness, a dry situation, sufficient exercise in the open air, wholesome food, and a moderate use of generous liquors. Infection ought, above all things, to be avoided. No constitution is proof against it. Persons have been seized with a putrid fever by only making a single visit to a patient in it; others have caught it by lodging for one night in a town where it prevailed; and some by attending the funerals of such as died of it. When a putrid fever seizes any person in a family the greatest attention is necessary to prevent the disease from spreading. The sick ought to be placed in a large apartment, as remote from the rest of the family as possible; he ought likewise to be kept extremely clean, and should have fresh air frequently let into his chamber ; whatever comes from him should be immediately removed, his linen should be frequently changed, and those in health ought to avoid all unnecessary communication with him. Any one who is apprehensive of having caught the infection ought immediately to take an emetic, and to work it off by drinking plen- tifully of camomile tea. This may be repeated in a day or two if the apprehensions still continue, or any unfavourable symptoms appear. The person ought likewise to take an infusion of the bark and camomile flowers for his ordi- nary drink, and before he goes to bed he may drink an English pint of pretty strong negus, or a few glasses of generous wine. Those who wait upon the sick in putrid fevers ought to wash their hands, and if pos- sible to change their clothes, before they go into company. When hemorrhages ensue, and purple or livid spots have appeared on the body of the patient, recourse must be had to the most powerful antiseptics, • such as vegetable and mineral acids, carbonic acid in every form, liquors in a state of fermentation, aerated waters, wine, cold affusion, and bark. Take oxy- muriatic acid, 20 minims; decoction of bark, 1^ oz.; tincture of bark, 3 drachms. Make a draught, to be taken as above. Clysters also of diluted vinegar may be administered. Take common vinegar, 3 drachms; infusion of camo- mile, 5 ozs. Mix for a clyster, If thrush arise, the gargles recommended in Putrid Sork Throat. In this disease the application of cold to the Lead might probably be advantageously sub- Btituted for a blister in those cases where there prevails either coma or delirium, or where there is great pain in the head, with much anxiety and restlessness. Having shaved the head, a large towel dipped in the coldest water may be applied all over it, renewing this process fre- quently until the patient feels relieved, the heat less, and a disposition to tranquil sleep supervenes. This opei-ation may be repeated at short intervals at first, and it will be desirable to do it with such quickness and perseverance as to pi'oduce some degree of shivering. In severe cases the application of powdered ice inclosed in a bladder to the shaven scalp may be substituted. In typhus, whatever may be the mode of action of yeast, it appears to be indisputable that fixed air takes off that extreme debility of tlie stomach, so conspicuously marked in dis- orders of this nature; and in proportion as that subsides the pulse rises, becomes slower and fuller, the burning heat on the skin dis- appears, and a truce is gained for the reception of nutrition. TYRE, ESSENCE OF, is merely a solution of lunar caustic (nitrate of silver) for dyeing the hair. U UDDER AND TONGUE: To Dress. Let the tongue be well cleaned and salted with common salt, and then saltpetre, after which it must lie three days; then boil it with a fine young udder that has some fat adhering thereto. When tolerably tender fasten the thick part of the udder, and roast tlie whole together. Serve up to table with good currant jelly sauce, first sticking into the udder several cloves. Some persons prefer curing tongues with the roots, which makes them look much larger; but the general practice is to cut the root off close to the gullet, leaving the fat under the tongue. Soak the root in salt and water, and clean it well before you dress it: lay the tongue also in salt for a day and a night before it is pickled. UDE'S SAUCES. The chief of the sauces used by M. Ude for meat, fish, &c., will be found under the head Sauce. We add hero two of his s^ji;eet sauces. French Arrowroot Sauce. Dilute a spoon- ful of arrowroot with white wine and sugar, and set it on the fire to boil. French Pudding Sauce. Add a little salt and some orange flowers to boiling milk; beat in the yolks of four eggs; stir on the fire till the whole becomes thickened, and then strain through a tammy : squeeze in the juice of a iemon. ULCERS. See Sores and Ulcers.