nou ■[ 53 ] HOU HOUSEMAID. The first duty of the liouse- maid is to rise early, and to dress herself tidily and quickly. Her next ofBce if in summer, is to rub the stove and fire-irons with scouring paper, and to clean the hearth. When she has a mind to preserve her irons free from rust till winter, let her dissolve ^ oz. of camphire and i lb. of hog's lard together over a very slow fire, and, taking off the scum, mix as much black- lead as will bring them to an iron colour; then let her spread this composition over the steel grates and fire-irons, and letting it lie twenty- four hours, and then cleaning them neatly with a dry linen cloth, she will find them keep un- rusted for six months. Some rub their irons with mutton suet or goose grease, and, wrapping them in paper, lay them by till winter, when they wipe off the fat with a dry linen cloth, and then rub them with scouring paper. If in winter she should first rake out the ashes, and sweep the grate very clean. Common irons may be brightened by rubbing them first with a rag dipped in vinegar and the ashes, then with an oily rag, and after that witli scouring paper, rotten - stone, or white brick, but, if possible, red brick should not be used, for it makes sad work. This method of cleaning serves for all sorts of common irons or brasses, though some prefer goose grease to oil or any other sort of grease, and do not use scouring paper to brasses. If there be very fine steel stoves and fenders they should be first rubbed with oil, then with emery till clear and bright, and next polished with leather, which is an excellent thing for rubbing every two or three days irons that are not in constant use, as it takes off any spots got in that time. When she has thus prepared the stove, &c., and cleaned the inside of the hearth, she may light her fire, and wash the marble with a piece of flannel, instead of a brush, dipped in a strong lather of hot water and soap. She should then dry the hearth and round the chimney ; but if the latter be marble drying it once a week is suflicient, thougli the hearth ought to be done so to every day. Cold water, soap, and sand will do for washing freestone slabs, and she should use a brush for cleaning them, for rubbing with a fire-stone spoils the ladies' petticoats, and one cannot set a foot on slabs, so rubbed without marking the room, unless the slabs be afterwards well cleaned with a dry clotb. Where the insides of chimneys are covered with tiles, rubbing them with a wet cloth, and then drying them, is sufficient. Hearths and chimney sides of steel should be cleaned in the same manner as fine steel stoves. When the hearth and sides are of freestone they may be cleaned in the following manner: — First scour them clean as directed for free- stone slabs ; then take two pennyworth of black- lead and J lb. of coarse brown sugar, whicli, being well mixed, put into half a pint of small beer, and set on the fire, stirring the whole with a stick till well boiled; then with a little brush black the sides and bottom of the hearth at least twice over, and next day, when they are quite dry, rub them well with a hard brush, and if they be smooth and not broken they will look like steel. The bottom on which tho grate stands will require m.ore frequent repeti- tion, as the blacking wears off sooner than on the sides, which will keep bright for some weeks, or perhaps months Brick hearths brushed with a mixture of red lead and milk will have a cherry colour. When the housemaid has finished her busi- ness at the chimney she should set about cleaning the locks, having first procured a piece of pasteboard for each, with a hole cut in it just large enough for slipping over the lock to preserve the doors, to which the same side of the pasteboard should always be applied, for the dirty side would spoil them. The locks may be cleaned by rubbing them with an oily rag, and next with rotten-stone or white brick ; but she ought to be very careful that none of these last two gets into the keyhole. Lackered locks want no other cleaning but rubbing with a piece of clean leather or woollen cloth, for oil or anything damp hurts their colour. Her atten- tion should next be given to the carpets, which she may sweep with a common broom, or brush with a whisk broom, and then fold them back, after which she ought to sweep the room, having first strewed it with sand pretty damp, throw- ing it smartly from her hand, and it will lick up the dust and flue. Carpets, when they will turn, are best cleaned by laying the wrong side upwards for a day or two, and then the dust will fall on the floors. But before she sweeps the rooms she should brush and clean the window curtains, and with a broom sweep the windows and behind the shutters. She ought not to apply a brush or broom to any pictures or frames, but only to blow the dust off with a pair of bellows, though she may now and then dust them with a soft piece of flannel or very soft duster; and she should also blow off the dust from the wainscot, china, and stucco work. When she has swept the room and taken up the dust, without leaving any sluttishly in corners, her next business is to rub the wainscot from the top to the bottom with d duster, and do the same to the windows. In the next place the chairs should be dusted ; then let her sweep the stairs, throwing on tho upper stairs a little wet sand, which will bring down the dust without flying about; but if stair carpets are used this is only to be djne occa-