SCO SEA [ 425 ] their skins. It is reasonable to suppose that tlieir effects would be as great upon the human species, were they used in proper quantity for a sufficient length of time. We have sometimes seen good effects in scor- butic complaints of very long standing from the use of a decoction of the roots of water-dock. It is usually made by boiling I lb. of the fresh root in six English pints of water till about one-third of it be consumed. The dose is from half a pint to a whole pint of the decoction every day ; but in all the cases where we have seen it prove beneficial it was made much stronger, and drunk in larger quantities. The safest way, however, is for the patient to begin with small doses, and increase them both in strength and quantity as he finds his stomach will bear it. It must be used for a considerable time. We have known some take it for many months, and have been told of others who had used it for several years before they were sen- sible of any benefit, but who nevertheless were cured by it at length. SCURVY-GRASS {CocJilearia officinalis). This near relative of the horseradish is found growing on seashores, and in mountainous situations, where it flowers in the months of April and May, and is then most powerful. When cultivated in gai'dens this maritime plant retains its properties without any sensible change. It possesses a considerable degree of acrimony, which I'esides in a very subtle essen- tial oil, and as an anti-scorbutic its effects are sufficiently ascertained. In the pituitous asthma and chronic rheumatism the scurvy-grass is a powei'ful remedy. It is likewise a pungent stimulating medicine, which may be advantage- ously employed for promoting the fluid secre- tions. A distilled water and a conserve are prepared from its leaves; and the expressed juice is prescribed, with that of oranges, among other anti-scorbutics, It may also be used as a salad. SEA-BATHING. Bathing in the sea is greatly preferable to bathing in fresh water. It excites the action of the solids, stimulates the vessels of the skin, causes an increased deter- mination of the fluids to the surface of the body, and promotes all the secretions. Even persons of the most delicate habits are less susceptible of cold from being wet with salt than with -fresh water. There is a saline incrustation formed on the skin, in consequence of bathing in the sea, which excites, in some measure, the action of the cutaneous vessels by the common friction of the apparel, arising from a certain degree of roughness and asperity thereby im^ parted to the surface of the body. Bathing in the sea, by exposing the body for a time to a medium of lower temperature than it has been accustomed to, combined with the opportunity of breathing pure air, of enjoying moderate exercise, and indulging in agreeable society and innocent amusements, restores to the constitution a portion of that strength which had been previously exhausted by breath- ing the impure atmosphere, and following the enervating modes of life peculiar to great towns. Indeed, in many cases, after even a short course of judiciously regulated sea-bathing, it is diffi- cult to recognise the languid and meagre in- valid, who a few weeks before had repaired to the seacoast in a state of great debility, when he is seen once more possessing all the advan- tages of vigorous and florid health. The rules which have been recommended in the use of sea-bathing are so numerous, and often so contradictory to each other, that it is difficult to select or arrange them with pro- priety ; but the following are entitled to the reader's attention.— Sea-bathing should be continued for at least five or six weeks at two periods in the year, making June a part of the one, and September of the other. By thus allowing an interval be- tween the two courses of bathing, a more salu- tary change may be effected in the fluids and solids than if it had been persisted in for many months without intermission. Bathing in the heats of autumn is not reckoned so useful. The lowest temperature of the sea on our coasts is about 40° of Fahren- heit, whereas in autumn it is often from 60" to 62°, and the atmosphere is probably about 65° : hence it may be called tempei'ate, rather than cold bathing. The lower the temperature we can accustom ourselves to bear with im- punity, the better we are enabled to withstand the vicissitudes of the seasons. Before bathing in the sea it is a rule proper to be adopted by the young and delicate gradually to prepare themselves for sea-bathing by previously using the tepid bath, at a tempe- rature commencing at 90°, lowering 5° each time, and terminating at 65°. This is much better for them than plunging at once into the sea, at its common temperature, without any previous preparation. We should never begin to bathe in the sea till two or three days after having arrived on the seacoast, during which time it would be advisable to take a moderate dose of salts or a tea-cupful of sea water every morning before breakfast. Sea-bathing, likewise, should not be taken after great fatigue, as coming from a long journey; nor after the body has been long ex- posed to great exertion, and has incurred lassi- tude, debility, or chilliness ; nor if there is any inward determination of the fluids to the head or the lungs. It is an indispensable rule never