PLA PLA [ 330 ] 60 diluted as to be of mild acidity, is also proper. Profuse looseness should be checked by opiates judiciously administered. Blisters may be ap- plied in urgent cases. Emollient clysteis should be frequently injected. PLAICE WITH DUTCH SAUCE. Pre- pai'e the plaice in exactly the same manner as soles with mushrooms. When well drained from the liquor lay them on a dish, and pour over them a Dutch sauce. PLAICE A L'ESPAGNOLE. Prepare it the same as for Dutch sauce, only, instead of pouring over it a Dutch sauce, it must bea good strong sauce a VEspagnole, with more lemon- juice than usual. A few mushrooms added would be a great improvement. PLAICE (an Excellent Wat of Cooking A Large One). Sprinkle it well with salt, and keep it twenty-four hours; then wash it and wipe it dry; do it over with egg, and then with bread crumbs; then make boiling hot some lard, with two large spoonsful of vinegar ; lay in the fish, and fry it a fine colour; drain it from the fat, and serve with fried parsley and anchovy sauce. You may, if you choose, instead of putting vinegar into the pan, previously dip the fish in vinegar. PLASTER OF PARIS. {See Alabaster.') This, known also as gypsum, is a compound of sulphuric acid (oil of vitriol) and lime. It is called by chemists sulphate of lime. After being heated red-hot it has the property of hardening very rapidly when mixed with water into a paste. In this manner it is cast into statues and ornaments for ceilings, and is equally serviceable for forming moulds, whether of a living face or other form. When a mould is thus formed with it, and the inside of the mould oiled, a cast may be easily made in it with another plaster of Paris paste. PLASTERS ought to be of a different con- sistence, according to the purposes for which they are intended. Such as are to be applied to the bi'easts or stomach ought to be soft and yielding, while those designed for the limbs should be firm and adhesive. It has been supposed that plasters might be impregnated with the virtues of different vegetables by boil- ing the recent vegetable with the oil employed for the composition of the plaster; but this treatment does not communicate to the oils any valuable qualities. The calces of lead boiled with oils unite with them into a plaster of a proper consistence, which makes the basis of several other plasters. In boiling these com- positions a quantity of hot water must be added from time to time, to prevent the plaster from burning or growing black. This, however, should be done with care, lest it cause the matter to explode. Adhesive Plaster. Take of common plaster lib.; Burgundy pitch, lb. Melt them to- gether. This plaster is principally used for keeping on other dressings. Anodyne Plaster. Melt 1 oz. of adhesive plaster, and when it is cooling mix with it 1 drachm of powdered opium, and the same quantity of camphor, previously rubbed up with a little oil. This plaster generally gives ease in acute pains, especially of the nervous kind. Blistering Plaster. Take of Venice turpen- tine 6 ozs.; yellow wax, 2 ozs.; Spanish flies in fine powder, 3 ozs.; powdered mustard, 1 oz. Melt the wax, and while it is warm add to it the turpentine, taking care not to evaporate it by too much heat. After the turpentine and wax are sufficiently incorporated sprinkle in the powders, continually stining the mass till it be cold. Though this plaster is made in a variety of ways, one seldom meets with it of a proper consistence. When compoiinded with oils and other greasy substances its effects are blunted, and it is apt to run; while pitch and resin render it too hard, and very inconvenient. When the blistering plaster is not at hand, its place may be supplied by mixing with any soft ointment a sufficient quantity of powdered flies, or by forming thera into a paste with flour and vinegar. Blistering plasters prove highly disagreeable to many people by occasioning strangury. It is well, therefore, to use a plaster in which a small quantity of blistering salve has been mixed with the Burgundy pitch plaster. Lay it over the part affected, aud suffer it to remain as long as it will stick. The blistering plaster loses its effect in a few hours, whereas this will act for many days, or even weeks, aud seldom fails to remove pain or slight obstructions. Common Plaster. Take of common olive oil 6 pints ; litharge reduced to a fine powder, 2^ lbs. Boil the litharge and oil together over a gentle fire, continually stirring them, and keeping always about half a gallon of water in the vessel. After they have boiled about three hours a little of the plaster may be taken out and put into cold water, to try if it be of a proper consist- ence. When that is the case the whole may be suffered to cool, and the water well pressed out of it with the hands. This plaster is generally applied in slight wounds and excoriations of the skin. It keeps the part soft and warm, and defends it from the air, which is all that is necessary in such cases. Its principal use, however, is to serve as a basis for other plasters. Gum Plaster. Take of the common plaster 4 lbs.; gum ammoniac and galbanum strahied, of each ^ lb. Melt them together, and add of Venice tui-pentine 6 ozs. Tliis plaster is used