INV INV [ 7? 3 highly flavoured with gin or brandy. How often is the sick man left parched with thirst, with nothing by him to " sip ! " Decidedly it is not want of feeling on the part of the attendants : it is either that they do not know how to prepare the necessary things, or it is want of thought. That want of thought, how much misery does it occasion ! It is the cause of much vice, many quarrels, many hitter feelings ; in fact, it is the fruitful source of most of the evils in this life. How carefully, then, ought each and all of us to cultivate a habit of tlihiking before we either speak or act. Such a habit would be productive of great benefit both to ourselves and others. Thoughtlessness is not felt anywhere so keenly as in the sick chamber. Illness, generally speaking, creates an irritability of temper, and to be waited on by a thoughtless attendant materially increases it. What can be more worrying to an invalid than to find, if obliged to be left alone, the medicine not prepared for him, the toast and water or barley water not placed by his bedside ? Another cause of an- noyance is a person coming into the room ten times when once would have sufficed—all occa- sioned by want of thought. These may appear trifles " light as air" to many of our readers ; but wait a little till you are laid on your sick bed, and then say if they are "nothings." It has been truly said that " the same spectacles do not suit those in health and those in sickness; " and now let us see if we cannot recommend you some little niceties which will be agreeable to the invalid. Barley Water. Wash \ lb. of pearl barley, put it into a saucepan with a pint of water, let it boil for ten minutes, strain it, and throw the water away. Put the barley again into the sauce- pan with four pints of fresh water, boil it till it has wasted to three pints, and then strain it for use. If more water be put on to the remains of the barley it will make a pleasant beverage by boil- ing with it the peel of a lemon, and adding, after straining it, the juice. It will not, oi course, be so nourishing as the first three pints. A VERY GOOD Beverage foe a Cough is made with a quart of barley water, to which are added 2 ozs. of figs sliced, 3 ozs. of raisins, and ^oz. of liquorice root. The figs, raisins, and liquorice root must be boiled in a pint of water, and then added to the quart of barley water. When oranges are cheap a very refreshing draught can be made with them at a small cost. Orangeade. Pare thinly six sweet and two Seville oranges, put the rinds into a basin, and pour over them two quarts of boiling water; let it stand all night; take the rinds out, and add to the water the juice of the oranges and that of two lemons. Put 1 lb. of sugar into a saucepan. with sufficient water to make a syrup, and when it boils add the orange water. Boil the whole together for ten minutes, and when it is cold you will find it most refreshing. The peels of the oranges will answer, if boiled, for orange marmalade. A Saline Draught is a very simple and very valuable drink in many cases. The simplest way of making it is this :—Put a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda into half a tumbler of water, with two lumps of sugar. Into a wine-glass of water put a small tea-spoonful of tartaric acid, and when dissolved pour the acid on to the soda, and drink whilst in a state of effervescence. Some people prefer a table-spoonful of lemon juice instead of the tartaric acid. Citric acid may also be used, but it is more expensive. Imperial is another very cooling draught, but, being lowering, it should not be drunk habitually without medical advice. Put 2 ozs. of cream of tartar into a basin, with the juice and rinds of three lemons; pour over it six quarts of boiling water, sweeten it to your taste, and keep it closely covered (which can be done by placing a plate over the basin) until it is cold. Toast and Water, though apparently such a simple thing, is very seldom well made. The bread from which it is made should not be burnt, but toasted thoi'oughly until it is hard and brown ; then put it into a jug, and on it pour boiling water; cover it till it is cold; then take out the toast, and the water is ready to be drunk. Any kind of fruit, sliced, sweetened, and boiling water poured on it, makes a pleasant change. If apples are used they are greatly improved by first baking them for a quarter of an hour, and then pouring the water on them. Herb Tea. There is a refreshing draught which is very useful to the poor, who usually cultivate, or can easily procure, various herbs. It may be made entirely of them, and is often taken hot the last thing at night. Put a little sage, three sprigs of balm, and a little wood- sorrel into a jug; on it pour three pints of boiling water, sweeten, and cover it closely. If to be drunk hot it must stand on the hob for half an hour, in order to draw out the virtues of the herbs. Milk Drinks. If milk is easily procured many agreeable and nourishing draughts can be made. A very favourite one with some people is this :—Put a pint of milk in the oven, and into it put \ lb. of fresh suet; when it has melted strain, and drink it warm. This mixture is veiy softening to the chest, and has the advantage of being easily made. For those who are weak, and who do not like the suet with the milk, an egg well beaten may be substituted in this manner :—Warm half a pint of milk, take it off the fire, and mix with