MAR M A R [ 192 ] set it on tlie fire, stining constantly till it thickens; then poui- it into small cups or naoulds, put them in a cool place, and turn them out when to be sent to table. MARROW WITH EGGS. Take some teef marrow, pound it well with eggs boiled hard, and season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and sweet herbs. When well mixed roll it up into little balls, wrap each iu thin paste, dip them in batter, and fry them. MARROW FRITTERS. Boil some beef marrow with a glass of stock till reduced to a thin paste, which pour into flat saucers to about the thickness of a crown piece. When cool turn them out, and dip each into a batter made of cream cheese pounded with a little milk, two handsful of flour, and an egg. Fry these fritters either in oil, lard, or butter. Whichever you use, however, should be boiling. MARROW PASTIES (1). Take the marrow from three marrow bones, a little thyme, winter savory, and sweet marjoram, the yolks of three eggs, ^ lb. of sugar, ^ lb. of currants, a little rose water, and some nutmeg. Work all these together, put them into pasties of puff paste, and fry them in lard. MARROW PASTIES (2). Shred some apples with some marrow, add a little sugar to them, make them up in puff paste, and fry the pasties in clarified butter. When fried strew some sugar over them, and serve. MARROW PASTIES (3). Blanch and pound 4 ozs. of sweet almonds, moistening them with orange-flower water. When reduced to a paste mix it with a handful of flour, a drop of warm water, and the yolks of three eggs; with this line a number of shallow moulds, dorez, and bake them in a slow oven. When done take them out, and put in each a little cream made with beef marrow, lemon-peel, and cream, not laid on thicker than a crown piece ; cover with a spoonful of white of egg whipped to a snow, strew sifted sugar over, and serve them very hot. MARROW PUDDING (1). Grate the crumb of a French roll, put to it a pint of cream, 1 lb. of marrow sliced, four eggs, sugar and nutmeg according to taste, and 2 ozs. of citron sliced. Three quarters of an hour will be sufficient to bake it. You may add currants if jou think proper. MARROW PUDDING (2). Boil in a quart of new milk cinnamon and lemon-peel, and strain to i lb. of beef marrow finely chopped, a few currants washed and picked, some slices of citron and orange-peel candied, a little grated nutmeg, brandy, syrup of cloves, a table- spoonful of each, and ^Ib. of Naples biscuit. When the mixture is cold add eight eggs beat up, omitting five of the whites, and bake it in a dish with puff paste round it. MARROW PUDDING (3). Soak beef mar- row in cold water for twelve hours, then clear away all the pellicles, and beat it with a wooden spoon in a little orange-flower water till of the consistence of thick cream. Take some double cream, mix the marrow with it, add a little mace, nutmeg, and cinnamon, and boil it. Blanch and pound 8 ozs. of sweet almonds, moistening them with cream; press the milk from them, and mix with it the whites of thi'ee eggs and the yolks of ten, well whipped. Beat the whole well, and then put to it the maiTow cream, ^Ib. of powder sugar, a little salt, and a sufficient quantity of sifted flour to make it of the proper consistence; tie it in a buttered cloth, and put it into boiling water. When done serve it with melted butter, orange-flower water, and white wine. MARROW PUDDING (4). Grate i lb. of sponge cake, and mix with it J lb. of beef marrow finely minced; add the grated peel and the juice of a large lemon or orange, half a grated nutmeg, and four table-spoonsful of sugar. Stone ^Ib. of very good fresh raisins, cut them in halves, and dredge them well with flower ; beat four eggs till very light, stir them gradually into half a pint of cream or rich milk, and mix it by degi'ees with the other ingredients. Lastly, add the raisins a few at a time, and stir the ■whole very hard. Butter a deep dish, put in the mixture, bake it an hour or more, and send it to table warm, with slips of candied citron stuck all over the top so as to stand upright. For sauce have white wine mixed with sugar and lemon juice. ^ MARROW SAUSAGES. Mince equal quan- tities of beef marrow, fresh pork, and noix of veal; season the mixture well, add sweet herbs if you like, tie them up in sheep's cauls, and make your sausages either flat, oval, or round, according to your taste. MARROW TART. Beat J lb. of almonds with the marrow of four bones, ^ lb. of Naples biscuit, i oz. of pralineed orange flowers, a pint of cream, eight yolks, and three whites ; season with sugar, cinnamon, ginger, salt, and eryngo root or citron cut fine; sheet a dish with puff or sweet paste, glaze it with butter, and sift sugar over it. MARROW TART, CREAMED. After having dressed the tart as above fill it with a ereme patissiere, mixed with beef marrow ; strew it over with minced nuts, sugar, and white of egg ; glaze and finish as the others. MARROW TOASTS. Make a farce with some breast of fowl pounded with herbs, and mixed with yolks of eggs and veal gravy; boil some beef marrow in stock, let it cool, and then cut it in pieces ; spread layers of farce on some slices of fried bread, place the pieces of marrow