[ 508 ] TUR TU R tliick, on \Yhicli place truffles, tongues a Vecmiate, bacon, tui'key, fowl, and fat livers, all cut into pieces about half an inch thick, and an inch and a half long; cover these with another layer of farce, and continue this operation alternately till all the farce is used; then roll up the turkey in its proper form, but so that none of the farce may escape ; sew it up, cover it with slices of bacon, wrap it in a coarse cloth with three or four bay leaves, tie it closely, and place it in a braisiug-pan on slices of bacon ; add two knuckles of veal, six carrots, six onions, a large bunch of parsley and scallions, the bones of the turkey, a bay leaf, a little thyme, three cloves, and three ladlesful or more of stock; cover your braising-pan closely, set it on the fire, and let it simmer for three hours. When doue take it from the fire, but leave the turkey in for half an hour : on taking it out of the pan press it gently to get out all tlie gravy. When quite cold unwrap the bird; strain the gravy through a lawn sieve, beat up an egg in it, and set it on the fire, stirring till it boils , then put it by the side of tlie stove, with fire on the saucepan lid. In about half an hour strain it again, and leave it to cool. TURKEY GIBLETS A LA BOUR- GEOISE. The pinion, neck, feet, liver, and gizzard compose the giblets. When scalded put them into a small stewpan, with a little butter, parsley, scallions, bay leaf, thyme, basil, mushi'ooms, and a clove or two ; moisten these with stock, season with pepper and salt, make all quite hot, and thicken with a little flour. When nearly done add a few turnips slightly fried in a little butter. TURKEY GIBLETS, FRICASSEED. Scald thoroughly the giblets from as many turkeys as will malie a handsome dish ; then stew them down with 2 ozs. of butter, as directed in the preceding receipt. When doue take out the herbs, make a liaison with three yolks of eggs, a little cream, and some vinegar, and serve. TURKEY IN ITS OWN GRAVY. Take out the breast-bone of a turkey, and stuff it with a sweetbread scalded, mushrooms cut in pieces, grated bacon, pepper, and salt; put the turkey, covered with slices of bacon, into a braising-pan just large enough to hold it, with a very little stock, a quarter of a pint of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, thyme, bay leaf, a few cloves, and a little nutmeg; let it braise slowly, turn it two or three times, and when done skim the sauce, strain it, add chopped shallots, reduce the sauce, and serve it poured over the turkey. TURKEY, HASHED. Cut up the remains of ji roasted turkey, which put into a stewpan, with a glass of white wine, chopped parsley, shallots. mushrooms, truffles, salt, pepper, two spoons- ful of cuUis, and a little stock : boil half an hour, and reduce to a thick sauce. When ready add 1 lb. of anchovy and a squeeze of lemon, skim off" all the fat from the sauce, and servo all up together. TURKEY, LEGS OF (Bedevilled). Score the legs across, and put mustard into the divisions ; then throw on some Cayenne pepper and salt, place them on a gridh'on over a brisk fire, and do them till they are thoroughly browned. Gizzards or pinions may be done iu the same manner. TURKEY, LEGS OF (Broiled). Braise some undressed legs of turkey until tender, then dip them in oil or melted butter, and bi'oil them of a fiue brown colour. Serve with a remolade sauce. TURKEY, LEGS OF (Provence Fashion). Take the legs of a roasted turkey, and put them into a stewpan, with a glass of wine, the same quantity of stock, pepper, salt, a bundle of sweet herbs, two cloves, and a clove of garlic : simmer about an hour to reduce the sauce. Make a "ragout with a sweetbread, chopped mushrooms, parsley, shallots, and a bit of butter; soak this a little while, then add a little stock and cullis, and boil it some time. When ready add a pounded anchovy, chopped capers, and a handful of olives stoned, and warm together without boiling : yon must add pepper and salt according to taste. The sauce should be sharp and relishing. Serve it upon the legs. TURKEY, LEGS OF (en Surprise). Bone a couple of undressed legs of turkeys quite to the end, and fill the insides with a farce made of livers, sweetbreads, mushrooms, parsley, shallots, pepper, salt, the yolks of two eggs, grated bacon, and a little nutmeg ; sew them up, and braise them with slices of bacon and lemon. Serve with a Spanish sauce. TURKEY, LEGS AND WINGS OF (Glazed). Cat off the legs and wings of a turkey (if a large one the legs will bo sufficient for a dish); cut them pretty large from the breast, lard them all over, or lard only one to please the different palates; braise them on a slow fire with slices of veal and ham, a bundle of sweet herbs, some cloves, ^Yllole pepper, salt, and stock. When done skim the sauce, reduce it to a glaze, and finish it like a fricandeau. TURKEY WITH OYSTERS. Truss a good white turkey for boiling, with the feet turned up like a fowl; tie some fat slices of bacon over the breast, and boil it gently in braise or in a stock pot; take it up a few minutes before wanted, in order to drain the water from it; take out the skewers and packthread which trussed it, set it on a large dish, and pour over it plenty of good oyster sauce. Some stuffing should