[ 561 ] WIN WIN Fill up the cask, and when fiae, which will he in about a week, bottle it off. WINE BITTERS. See Bitters, Wine. WINE, EGG. See Egg Wine. WINE, FININGS FOR. See Finings for Wine. WINE, MULLED. See Mulled Wine. WINE POSSET. Take a quart of new milk and the crumb of a penny loaf, and boil till the bread is soft; then take it off, grate therein half a nutmeg and some sugar, put it into a basin, and add a pint of Lisbon wine very gradually, or it will make the curd hard and tough. Serve it with toast. WINE ROLL. Soak a French roll in sweet wine till it will hold no more, pour it into a dish, and pour round it custard and cream, sugar and lemon juice. Previously to serving it sprinkle thereon some comfits or a few split almonds. Sponge biscuits may be substituted for the roll. WINE, ROPY : To Fine. Put a piece of coarse linen cloth on the end of the cock which goes into the cask, and then rack the wine into a dry one, putting 5 ozs. of powdered alum to thirty gallons. Roll and shake the whole well, and it will soon become fine. WINE SAUCE. Take a spoonful of flour and a preserved green lemon cut into dice, and mix them with a glass of Madeira wine and a little consomme; add 1 oz. of butter, some salt, and nutmeg; set these on a very hot stove to boil for a quarter of an hour, then take it off, put in J lb. of butter, and set it again on the fire, stirring constantly till the butter is melted. See also Sauce, Wine. WINE VINEGAR. Mix a quantity of vinous liquor with the lees, or the acidulous stalks of the vegetable from which it has been prepared; stir the same frequently, and expose it to the sun or in a warm place till it ferments. WINE WHEY (1) Take a quart of milk and a pint of water; boil, and add half a pint of white wine. WINE WHEY (2). Boil a pint of milk, add to it a glass of white wine, put it over the fire till it just boils again, then set it by till the curd has settled, when sti'ain it and sweeten to your taste. WINES. The different kinds of wines will be found treated of also under their various heads. The art of making wine by fermenting the juice of the grape appears to have been practised from the remotest antiquity, even before the flood; for we find that Noah planted a vineyard soon after the deluge. (Gen. ix. 20.) There are many varieties of the Vitis vinifem, or vine ; and, independently of this, soil and climate have a very sensible effect on the taste and quality of the juice extracted from the VOL. II. grape. The limits within which the vine is cultivated in the Old World vary from 15° to 52° in our northern hemisphere, and at an alti- tude not exceeding 3000 feet. The species in- digenous to North America is different from the European vine. Formeily considerable quanti- ties of inferior wine were made from grapes grown against walls in England, and in favour- able seasons the fruit still ripens in the open air. Our hothouse grapes, being produced from the best varieties of the vine, are equal, if not superior, for dessert to any in the world. Provided the climate is suitable, all sorts of soil are applicable to the vine, although light and gravelly spots are preferred. A rising open ground, having a south-east aspect, is generally selected for the vineyard; but although the very same species of grape is cultivated, the same management adopted, and the soil to all appearance alike in contiguous fields, the produce, when made into wine, is often different. In the neighbourhood of Vesuvius and other volcanic districts the best Italian wines are produced; and the far-famed Tokay is made from the grapes cultivated in a soil of that description. Stony ground is also favourable, the fine wine called Hermitage being produced from grapes rooted amongst the fissures of granite rocks. The famed wines of the ancients were generally drunk diluted with water; and the best of them, such as the Lebois and Chios of the Greeks, and the Falernian of the Romans, are supposed by Dr. Henderson to have partaken somewhat of the character of Madeira. In preparing them they were thickened to the consistence of honey; but, however relished in olden times, they are little suited to the present taste. The wines consumed in this country are Port, Sherry, Madeira, Champagne, Claret, Hock, Mai'sala, Cape, and several others. Cape Wines have been considerably im- proved of late years, and the consumption in England is great—not under this denomination, but for the purpose of mixing with Sherry, Madeira, and other good wines. The Cape of Good Hope being a British possession, its pro- duce is admitted at 2s. 6d. per gallon duty, ■while the duty on foreign wines is 5s. 6d.; and this accounts for the importation of upwards of 500,000 gallons annually of a very inferior wine, which has an earthy, disagreeable taste, and a total want of aroma and flavour. There is a wine called Constantia grown at the Cape, upon two farms of that name, near the base of Table Mountain, and this is much esteemed, being very luscious, and little inferior to the Muscadine of Languedoc. Of late years ex- periments have been made in some others of the 2 0