so A [ d49 ] SOA 8 G VOL. II. is called the first lye. Water is again put upon the mixture, to remain the same time, and afterwards to be drawn off as before. This is termed the second lye. The operation is repeated as long as lye of any power comes from the mixture. The lye is commonly used no stronger than to be able to sustain a new-laid egg. The oil or tallow is first boiled with a part of the lye, which may be diluted with water, till the whole forms a soapy compound. The stronger lye is then to be added, and kept slowly boiling, while a person assists the union by agitation. When it is sufficiently boiled a separation will appear to be taking place, tlie soap being at top and the watery fluid below: to effect this separation completely a quantity of common salt is added. The materials are usually boiled three or four hours, when the fire is withdrawn. The soap now floats at the top of the liquor, and the lye beneath, being of no further use, is drawn off. It is then melted with another lye, and, when a little boiled, is cast into wooden frames. When it is perfectly cold the cakes are taken out, and cut into convenient bars. The tallow for making soap is reckoned very good if 13cwt. of it yields, with alkali, a ton weight of soap. Black Soap, or black soft soap, is made from fish oil and a lye of potash, made in a similar manner as the lye of soda above. A cheap soap is sometimes made by using woollen rags, &c., and even the horns of animals, instead of oil. These substances are soluble in caustic lye, and by proper boiling form soap ; but the smell is commonly very disagreeable. Soap is easily and completely dissolved in water ; but in hard water it curdles, or is only imperfectly dissolved. A solution of soap in spirit of wine is sometimes used as a test to discover whether the water of any spiing be hard or soft. If soft the solution will unite with it; but if hard the soap will separate in flakes. Brown Soap is formed by adding 1 lb. of resin to every 2 lbs. of fat used in its manufacture. Castile Soap is sometimes made in this country, and is, we believe, nothing more than the common white soap, made eitlier with tallow and barilla, or olive oil and barilla; and, after it is poured out into the moulds, a small quantity of a solution in water of sulphate of iron is mixed with it, to give it the marbled appear- ance which it always more or less possesses. But the best Castile soap which is imported into this country is brought from Marseilles, although it is also brought from Spain. The foreign article is considered the best for medi- cinal use. Soap Is generally regarded as pur- gative and lithoMtriptlc. Its powers, however, iu both these intentions, are very limited. It is a very useful vehicle for many active medi- cines in the shape of pills, as by its means they soon dissolve in the stomach. Castile soap is, we believe, also a useful tonic, chiefly by the quantity of iron which it contains. It may be also given to counteract the effects of metallic and other poisons ; but in such cases it would be better to use the common white or yellow soap than Castile soap. It should be given dissolved in water, a tea-cupful of which may be drunk at short intervals till good effects are produced. The dose of soap internally is from 5 grains to ^ drachm, made into pills. Soap is employed externally in frictions to sprains and bruises: it has also been recom- mended to be rubbed in a strong lather on the swelled bellies of children labouring under mesenteric fever. Soap enters into several medicinal compositions. See Linimekt and Opodeldoc. Mottled Soap obtains its speckled appear- ance either by dispersing the lye through the soap towards the end of the operation, or by adding sulphate of iron, oxide of manganese, or indigo. Soap Balls for washing the hands are made of various colours by simply cutting white soap into small pieces, rolling them in vermilion, blue, or other colour, and squeezing them together into balls. They may be, of course, scented with whatever we may wish : orris-root powder, &c., may also be added at pleasure. Soft Soaps are prepared with potash and rape oil or suet. The mode of making them differs from that used in the preparation of hard soaps in this—that, in place of extinguishing the fire and drawing off the liquid, the fire is kept up till the soap has acquired the requisite con- sistence, after which it is run into casks, and so kept for sale. Although the green colour of this soap is only accessory, manufacturers some- times colour their soft soaps with indigo, to humour tlije prejudices of the purchasers. Soft soaps for the toilet are made with olive, nut, or palm oil, or with hogs Lu'd, suet, or butter; but they ought to be as much as jiossible freed of uncombined alkali. Their taste ought not to be caustic. The economy of soap is too little studied. There is no occasion to use soap in scouring boards whore wood ashes can be had: these, with fullers' earth, and even without it, are quite sufficient, and will make them look equally well, if they are propei'ly wcjUed, scoured the right way of the grain, well rin.'^ed, and dried. There is less occasion still to leave the soap in the water, for whatever purpose it is used. It should not be so left, even while you are washing your hands; for if you wash them frequently it will make it quite soft in tlio