[ 293 ] PAL PAN NTith a sudden and immediate loss of motion and sensibility of the parts; but in some instances it is preceded by numbness and a f 5nse of coldness, and at other times by slight convulsive twitches. When the head is much affected in palsy the eye and mouth are drawn on one side, the me- mory and judgment are much impaired, and the speech rendered indistinct and incoherent. If it affect the extremities, and has lasted long, it produces, with loss of motion and sensibility, a considerable flaccidity and wasting in the muscles of the affected parts. When palsy occurs in young people of full constitution, and comes on suddenly, and where the head appears to be much affected, or where it seems to arise from apoplectic causes, bleed- ing from the jugular vein or temporal may be advisable, after which either of the strong purges recommended in Apoplexy may be given ; but in old age, where palsy exists, neither bleeding nor purging should be practised. Where costive- ness prevails in such habits it may be removed hj means of some stomachic laxative ; such, for example, as the compound tincture of rhubarb, rubbing the parts affected, as well as along the course of the back-bone, with some stimulant application, by means of flannel or the flesh brush, impregnated with the flour or essence of mustard, or else with the palms of the hands and some rubefacient liniment, such as olive oil and oil of turpentine, 2 ozs. of the former to 1 oz. of the latter. Or, take spirits of camphor, 2 ozs.; tincture of Spanish flies, ^ oz.; solution of the subcarbonate of ammonia, 1 oz. Or, mus- tard seed in powder, and horseradish bruised, of each 2 ozs.; crumb of bread or linseed meal, 4 ozs.; vinegar, a sufficient quantity to form cataplasms, to be applied to the soles of the feet or palms of the hands. In addition to the gentle stimulants used to paralytic parts, stinging with nettles may some- times be used, warm fomentations, and blisters; and in some cases warm bathing will prove highly beneficial. Galvanism and electricity are also recommended; and, when the disease affects several parts of the body at the same time, stimulants should be used internally as well as externally, such as mustard seed, garlic, horseradish, spirits, ether, &c., in the following manner:—r Take two tea-spoonsful of white mustard seed three or four times a day, washing it down with cold water. Or, take bruised mustard seed and horseradish root, of each 4 ozs.; bruised orange- peel, 1 oz.; water, 4 pints, boiled down slowly to one pint. Strain the liquor off, and let the patient take a wine-glassful three times a day, adding to it occasionally 30 drops of the am- moniated tincture ol valerian. Besides applying stimulants, tonic mecHcin^s, such as are recommended in indigestion, may bo used internally when palsy is known to ariso from any debilitating cause. The palsy, or loss of nervous powei in par- ticular limbs, which may be a consequence of that painful and obstinate colic caused by poison of lead, is found to be peculiarly relieved by using the Bath waters, more especially when applied externally, either generally or on the part affected. The diet in palsy should be light nntritivo and of a warm, aromatic nature. Exercise, should the patient be able to walk, as much as the strength will bear ; and, if deprived of the use of his limbs, he may be carried abroad in a carriage or on horseback. Rubbing the parts with strong stimulants should be quently used. Flannel should be worn next the skin: exposure to cold moist air should be scrupulously avoided. Change of climate from a cold to a warmer otie may be resorted to. Where the appetite is precarious and fails, and the patient is sinking into a state of weakness, IPeruvian bark and stomachic bitters, with other tonics, m^ay be employed. When the disease assumes a chronlo form, and is of long standing, medicines which pro mote perspiration are proper: with this view camphor, volatile salts, gum guaiacum, &c., may be given. Costiveness may be removed with purges into which aloes enters as the principal ingredient; and regular exercise, with warmth, frictions, and rubefacients, will go a great way in restoring the action and strength of the limbs. PANADA (1). Set a little water on the fire, with a glass of white wine, some sugar, and a scrape of nutmeg and lemon-peel : meanwhile grate some crumbs of bread. The moment the mixture boils up, keeping it still on the fire, put the crumbs in, and let it boil as fast as it can. When of a proper thickness just to drink, take it off. PANADA (2). Boil some pieces of stale bread in a sufficient quantity of cold water to cover them, with a little cinnamon, lemon-peel, and caraways. When the bread is quite soft press out all the water, and beat up the bread with a small piece of butter, a little milk, and sugar to the taste; a little spice may bo added. PANADA (3). Put a blade of mace, a large piece of the stale crumb of bread, and a quart of water into a clean saucepan. Let it boil two minutes, then take out the bread, and bruise it very fine in a basin. Mix as much water as you think it will require, pour away the rest, and sweeten it to your palate. Put in a piece of butter as big as a waluut, but do not put ia