ORA [ 276 ] ORA throw tliem into boiling water, and blanch them till you can crush them with your fingei's; then take them out, put them into cold water with some lemon juice, and change the water several times, having lemon juice in each; then drain and put them into clarified sugar (lukewarm); cover, and leave the flowers to imbibe the sugar for three or four hours. ORANGE FLOWERS, GRILLAGE OF. Boil ^ lb. of sugar to la plume, and then mix it with \ lb. of picked orange flowers ; stir them well, and when the flowers have taken a good colour squeeze over them the juice of a lemon ; then put a layer of nonpareil on a dish, on which spread the grillage of orange flowers, then the nonpareil again, and so on altei'nately until all your material is used, when put in the stove to dry. ORANGE FLOWERS, RATAFIA OP Dissolve 3 lbs. of sugar in a sufficient quantity of water, set it on the fire, add 1 lb. of well- picked orange flowers, and give the whole one boil; then let it cool, pour it into a jar, and put to it three quarts of the best brandy; cover the vessel very closely, and leave it a fortnight, after which filter and bottle the ratafia. ORANGE FOOL. Mix the juice of three Seville oranges, three eggs well beaten, a pint of ci'eam, a little nutmeg, cinnamon, and sugar; set the whole over a fire, and stir it till thick, but without boiling. When done pour it into a dish, and let it stand till cold. ORANGE FRITTERS. Take one or two preserved oranges, and cut them into as many pieces as you think proper; make a good thick batter with sweet wine, and finish the same as all others. ORANGE GINGERBREAD. Sift SJlbs. of fine flour, and add to it If lb. of treacle, 6 ozs. of candied lemon-peel cut small, f lb. of moist sugar, 1 oz. of ground ginger, and 1 oz. of allspice. Melt to an oil f lb. of butter, mix the whole well together, and lay it by for twelve hours ; roll it out with as little flour as possible about half an Inch thick, and cut it into pieces three inches long and two wide; mark them in the form of cheques with the back of a knife, put them on a baking plate about a quarter of an inch apart, and rub them over with a brush dipped in the yolk of an egg beaten up with a tea-cupful of milk. Bake in a cool oven about a quarter of an hour. When done wash them slightly over again, and divide the pieces with a knife. ORANGE GRAVY SAUCE. Put half a pint of veal gravy into a saucepan, add to it six basil leaves, a small onion, and a roll of orange or lemon-peel, and after boiling for a few minutes, strain it off. Put to the clear gravy the juice of a Seville orange or lemon, half a tea-spoonful of salt, the same quantity of pepper, and a glass of red wine. Serve it hot. Shallot and Cayenne may be added. ORANGE ICE. Take ten fine blood oranges, peel and divide them into quarters ; take out the pips and heart, and then pound them with the grated rinds of two of the oranges ; put them into a strong cloth, and press out all the juice, which mix with ^ lb. of sugar, pre- viously dissolved in a pint of water. Put this mixture into an ice-box, and ice it as directed for Ices. ORANGE JELLY. Put two quarts of spring water into a saucepan with 4 ozs. of isinglass, and boil it gently till it becomes a strong jelly. Take the juice of three Seville oranges, three lemons, and six sweet oranges, with the rind of one Seville orange and one lemon pared very thin ; put them to your jelly, and sweeten with loaf sugar to your taste. Beat up the whites of eight eggs to a froth, mix it well in, and boil it for ten minutes ; then run it through a jelly bag till it is very clear, put it into your moulds, and let it stand till it is thoroughly cold ; then dip your moulds in warm water, and turn the jelly out into a china dish or flat glass. ORANGE JELLY EN RUBANS. Pre- pare the rinds of seven oranges as directed for Oranges en Surprise, and make half the quan tity of jelly; take an equal quantity of blanc- manger, and whilst the peels are in ice put into each a dessert-spoonful of the blanc-manger. As soon as this is congealed pour on it a spoonful and a half of orange jelly ; let that set, and add two spoonsful of blanc-manger, then two of jelly, and so on till the peels are filled. When quite ready for table cut them carefully in quarters, and arrange them with taste on a dish or in a confectionerv basket. ORANGE JELLY, TRANSPARENT. Take the juice of twelve oranges and two lemons, having taken care that none of the pips are in ; pare two of the sweetest oranges as thiu as possible, put the juice and rind into a bag, and when the former has filtered through mix it with the syrup, tinged with cochineal; add the isinglass, and finish it as in Fruit in Jelly. ORANGE JUICE, BUTTERED, Take seven Seville oranges, squeeze the juice from them, mix it with four spoonsful of rose water, add the whole to the yolks of eight and the whites of four eggs well beaten. Strain the liquor to ^ lb. of pounded sugar, stir it over a moderate fire, and as soon as it begins to thicken add to it a bit of butter about the size of a walnut; keep it a few minutes longer over the fire, then pour it into a dish, and serve cold. ORANGE LIQUOR. To each quart of strong spirits put one orange, lb. of loaf sugar, and stick each orange with six or eight