[ ^77 ] S WE S WO it off the fii-e, and work in eight or ten eggs, two at a time. When cold form tlie fritters, fry, and serve them with pounded loaf sugar strewed over them. SWEETMEAT PUDDING. Slice thin of orange-peel, lemon-peel, and citron, 1 oz. of each, and lay them at the bottom of a dish lined with light puff paste ; mix with i lb. of butter melted, the yolks of seven and the whites of two eggs, and 5 ozs. of sugar; pour this over the sweetmeats, and set it in the oven : it will take rather more than half an hour's baking. SWEETMEATS, BROWN. These sweet- meats may be made with the cuttings and remains of any kinds of sugared or canflied article, or even of spiced bread. Pound whatever ingredient you intend to use extremely fine, and pass the powder through a tammy on to the table; in the centre of this heap make a hollow, into which put as many eggs as are necessary to form a paste, then cinnamon, cloves, and bole armenia, all reduced to an impalpable powder: use only a small quantity of the latter to give the paste a sufficiently clear cinnamon colour. Sugar may be added if required. Work all the above ingredients into a firm paste with a little flour ; then roll it out about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and cut out of it, with tin paste cutters, figures of any kind you may think proper; place them on white paper, and bake them for half an hour. When done decorate them according to your taste. SWELLINGS, GLANDULAR. Diseases and obstructions of the glands are common to persons of the most weakly, delicate habits, and such complaints frequently accompany consump- tion. These constitutions, it is true, are not fitted for evacuation, and this disease is found to be aggravated by low diet; but when such morbid affections of the glands become univer- sal, although they are but secondary causes of the general complaints, yet they necessarily de- serve our attention, and sometimes, perhaps, ought to make the pi'imary object of our con- sideration. Their removal will give strength to the system, and we shall find that it can be done without evacuation. In our inquiry after causes we are to view effects as causes of other effects ; and in all organised bodies we have great reason to attend to this remark, for every secondary cause is capable of producing powei'ful changes in the phenomena of life, health, and disease. The enlargement of glands may depend upon the laxity of the pai't, or the weakness of the whole frame ; but when such an enlargement has taken place the reduction is seldom to be effected by the common tonics alone. A parti- cular stimulus to the part affected is necessary, and such sea water has been found to be. When taken internally for a considerable length of time it has been found to remove the most dangerous glandular obstructions. If we attend to its operation we shall see the greatest induce- ment for its exhibition from theory, as well as experienced facts ; and we shall likewise see that evacuation must necessarily impede, instead of promote its action, as is the case with mer- cury and other stimulant deobstruents taken into the system. When sea water is taken into the stomach, and not hurried through the bowels, it will be absorbed by the lacteals, and thence carried into the mass of circulating fluids, where its chemical contents will operate on the coats and contents of the vessels through which it passes. Marine salt, Glauber's salt, and Epsom salt, which are the principal active parts dissolved in the water of the sea, when taken into the mass of circu- lating fluids, must necessarily produce a power- ful stimulant effect, particularly on the excretory oi-gans through which they pass. Accordingly we find that the kidneys are stimulated to an increased secretion of urine by these saline sub- stances, which seldom fail of acting in some degree as diuretics; and it is a fact well known to graziers that common salt is a sovereign remedy in that dreadful plague, the rot of sheep. A patient has been known to receive great benefit from so small a quantity as a single wine-glass of sea water drunk every evening. The lady was afflicted with troublesome cough, attended with a great deal of phlegm, and bilious vomitings in the morning. She liad large glandular swellings under the chin and in the neck, which, upon the use of this small quantity of sea water, conjoined with animal food and wine, gradually lessened; and the cough, with sickness and vomitings, nearly left her before she continued the remedies a week. But, not- withstanding the happy success in this case, a much larger qi»antity ought to be taken, and continued for a great length of time, in most cases. If the remedy does not purge, too much can scarcely be taken. SWIG. See Night Caps. SWIMMING OF HEAD. See Giddiness. SWOONING. {See Fainting.) The patient should be immediately sprinkled with cold water on the neck and face, and exposed as much as possible to the open air. Strong pungent odours, such as burnt feathers or volatile spirits held to the nostrils, ought to be used with caution, and only in cases where the strength of the patient has been considerably reduced, espe- cially in hysterics and hypochondriasis. In these cases spirits of hartshorn, tincture of valerian, castor oil, or asafcetida may be in- haled with advantage. If the swooning originate from anger, and be attended with nausea, bitter