t 98 ] KED KET and pepper, wrap them in a coarse cloth, tying them up like a ball, and let them drain thus till the next day, -when serve them with fried bread and shallots chopped small. If they are to be kept for some time put more salt to them. KEDGEREE. Boil two table-spoonsful of rice, and add any fish previously cooked and nicely picked (salmon or turbot is preferable); beat up an egg well, and stir it in just before serving. The egg must not boil. KENNEL COAL. See Anthracite. KENTUCKY BATTER CAKES. Sift a quart of yellow Indian meal into a pan, and mix with it two large table-spoonsful of wheat flour and a salt-spoonful of salt. Warm a pint and a half of rich milk in a small saucepan, but do not let it come to a boil. When it begins to simmer take it off the fire, and put into it two pieees of fresh butter, each about the size of a hen's egg; stir the butter into the warm milk till it melts and is well mixed; then stir in the meal gradually, and set the mixture to cool; beat four eggs till very light, and add them by degrees to the mixture, stirring the whole very hard. If you find it too thin add a little more corn meal. Have ready a griddle heated over the fire, and bake the batter on it. Send tlie cakes to table hot, and eat them with butter, to which you may add molasses or honey. KERMES MINERAL is a combination of sulphuret of antimony with water, and an extra quantity of sulphur. On the continent it is employed instead of James's powder. In small doses of from half a grain to a grain every three hours it produces perspiration ; in larger doses of from four to ten grains it acts as a purgative and emetic. KERNEL WATER. Take 1 lb. of apricot and i lb. of peach and cherry kernels, and put them to soak in warm river water. The next day peel, and put them to infuse in three quarts of brandy for nine days, and then distil them in an alembic in the bain-marie. Dissolve four quarts of crushed sugar in three quarts of filtered water, and add ^ lb. of orange-flower water ; mix this with the brandy, strain it through a jelly bag, and bottle it. KERNELS, CREAM OF. Take i lb. of apricot kernels, and cut them into small pieces; infuse them in a gallon and a half of brandy and a quart of water for a week, and then distil the liquor ; dissolve 3 lbs. of sugar in a pint of orange-flower water and three quarts of water, and add this to the distilled liquor; filter the whole through a-jelly bag, and bottle it. KERNELS, RATAFIA OF. Take 1 lb. of apricot kernels, or if you choose you need only use almonds ; let them infuse eight days in two bottles of brandy and one bottle of water, with 1 lb. of sugar, a handful of coriander seeds, and a small quantity of cinnamon; then strain through a filtering bag, and when quite clear bottle it off. KERRY BUTTERMILK. Put six quarts of buttermilk into a cheese cloth, hang it in a cool place, and let the whey drip from it for two or three days. When it is rather thick put it into a basin, sweeten it with pounded loaf sugar, and add a glass of brandy or sweet wine, and as much raspberry jam or syrup as will colour and give it an agreeable flavom*. Whisk it well together, and serve it in a glass dish. KETCHUP. There is no article used for domestic purposes more commonly adulterated than ketchup. Quantities are met with con- stantly, which, on examination by chemical tests, are found impregnated with copper. Ketchup, indeed, is often nothing else than the residue left behind after the process employed for obtaining distilled vinegar, diluted with a decoction of the green husk of the walnut, and seasoned with allspice, Cayenne pepper, pimento, garlic, and common salt. Those persons, there- fore, who are fond of ketchup should make it themselves, otherwise they can never be sm-e of escaping from the effects of the villanous com- positions which are manufactured by unprin- cipled dealers. KETCHUP, ENGLISH. Peel ten cloves of garlic, bruise them, and put them into a quart of white wine vinegar; take a quart of white port, set it on the fire, and when it boils put in twelve or fourteen anchovies, washed and cut in pieces. Let them simmer in the wine till they are dissolved, and when cold put them to the vinegar; then take half a pint of white wine, and put into it some mace, ginger sliced, a few cloves, and a spoonful of whole pepper bruised ; let them boil a little, and when cold slice in a whole nutmeg and some lemon- peel, with two or three spoonsful of horseradish; add it to the rest, stop it closely, and stir it once or twice a day. It will soon be fit for use. KETCHUP, MUSHROOM (1). Take41bs. of mushrooms, and the same of common salt; sprinkle the salt over the mushrooms, and when the juice is drawn out add 8 ozs. of pimento and 1 oz. of cloves. Boil these for a short time, and press out the liquor: that which remains may be treated again with salt and water for an inferior kind. KETCHUP, MUSHROOM (2). Take the large flaps of mushrooms gathered when dry, and bruise them; put some at the bottom of an earthen pan, and strew salt over them; then put on another layer of mushrooms, then salt, and so on till you have sufficient. Let them stand a day or two, stirring them eveiy day; strain the liquor through a flannel bag, and to eveiy