[ 420 ] SCO SCA tne feet and legs should be bathed m warm water, a large blister applied to the neck, and a dose of the syrup of poppies given every night till the patient recovers. To detennine gently to the sin-fa'ce of the body it may, from time to time, be advisable to give the saline medicine, with small doses of some antimonial:—Take saline draught, camphor mixture, of each 6 drachms; tartarised antimony, J grain; syrup of orange-peel, 1 drachm. Make a draught, to be taken every four hours- The scarlet fever, however, is not always Oi 80 mild a nature. It is sometimes attended with putrid or malignant symptoms, in which case it is always dangerous. In the malignant scarlet fever the patient is not only affected with coldness and shivering, but with languor, sick- ness, and great oppression; to these succeed excessive heat, nausea, and vomiting, with a soreness of the throat; the pulse is extremely quick, but small and depressed; the breathing frequent and laborious; the skin hot, but not quite dry; the tongue moist, and covered with a whitish mucus; the tonsils inflamed and ulcerated. When the eruption appears it brings no relief; on the contrary, the symptoms ge- nerally grow worse, and fresh ones come on, as purging, delirium, &c. Edematous swellings of the ankles are not unfrequent after severe attacks of scarlet fever. Sometimes the dropsy becomes general, and destroys the patient. The remedy for this species of dropsy consists in sharp purgatives of jalap and calomel. Eight grains of the former with three of the latter may be given every second morning. Indeed, it is from neglecting to keep the body sufficiently open during the disease that this kind of dropsy most generally originates. When this disease is mistaken for simple inflammation, and treated with repeated bleed ings, purging, and cooling medicines, it gene- rally proves fatal. In those cases which manifest a disposition to malignancy and putrescency it will be advisable to give the Peruvian bark in substance, decoction, or infusion, according as it may sit on the patient's stomach, along with the mineral acids (particularly the muriatic), wine, and other antiseptics, from the commence- ment of the disease." The treatment must be, in general, similar to that of the putrid fever, or of the malignant ulcerous sore throat. SCARS : To Prevent. The prevention of scars is a great object, particularly in exposed parts of the body. ' This may appear of little consequence, but it certainly is not so. Scars from abscesses in the necks of females excite in the mind of most of our sex a reluctance to associate with them; and thus many a fine young woman may, by such scars, be doomed to perpetual celibacy. No part of the practice of surgery has been more faulty than the man- ner in which abscesses of the neck have been treated. We have seen on one side of the neck large scars from abscesses that had been badly managed, whilst on the other side, where the treatment had been more skilful, scarcely any vestige of a wound was to be seen. Aperients, \nth calomel and rhubarb, should be given; evaporating lotions should be used; you must be strict as to regimen and diet; and the food must be nutritive, but not stimulating. The best mode to adopt in these cases is to open the abscess before the skin be much aS'ected, and as soon as a blush has appeared: thus scars will be in general prevented. It is desirable in opening the tumour to use a very fine knife, for two reasons: firstly, a small opening is made; secondly, it does not alarm the person. The knife used by Sir A, Cooper had a blade an eighth of an inch wide. When you press the sides of the wound take care to squeeze out all the solid flakes of matter to be met with in scrofulous tumours. If this be not attended to they will at last slough ; but if, on the contraiy, you care- fully avoid leaving any of that unorganised substance, adhesion will take place, and the wound will heal. Almost everything in these cases depends on getting rid of the solid matter. Bread poultices made with sulphate of zinc, lotions, and spirits may be afterwards used. There is a point of great importance to be at- tended to, and that is the direction in which you make the opening. Always make it transversely, and not in the axis of the neck, for when the wound heals it will scarcely be seen among the creases or folds of the skin. Do not open these tumours when they have a pm-ple blush upon them like the hue of a grape : the skin is thin, and will slough. SCENT BAG. See Pot Poueri. SCIATICA. See Lumbago. SCORBUTIC AFFECTIONS. See Scurvy. SCOURING. It may be necessary to pre- mise that those who carry on the art of scouring, and, indeed, every private person who wishes to practise it effectually, ought to be provided with a wooden instrument called a doll or maid, for the purpose of beating blankets, counter- panes, &c., in the tub, in order to clean them. It consists of four feet, which are made square ; each foot measures seven inches round, and is twenty inches long from the fork to the ex- tremity of the feet. From the fork to the top of the doll is sixteen inches, making the height of the doll altogether three feet. The upper part, or the shoulders, should be twenty-one inches in circumference : at the upper end is a cross pin, by which it is held firmly. The tub should be two feet and a half in height, the diameter of the top about two feet, and of the