sou [ 455 ] SOU parsley, six onions, a few blades of mace, and about half a pint of water; put this over a slow fire for an hour, taking care that it does not catch at the bottom. When drawn down fill the pan with some best veal stock, and let it boil gently for an hour; then take out the veal and fowl, strip the latter from the bones, put the flesh and veal into a mortar, with 2 ozs. of sweet almonds, and pound the whole sufficiently fine to pass through the tammy. When beaten finely enough put it into a small soup pot that will hold three quarts, and add thereto two quarts of the soup that the meat was boiled in; then crumble therein three French rolls, let it boil for one hour, rub it through a tammy, and add about one pint of cream that has been previously boiled; put it into a soup pot, which must be placed in a stew- pan of hot water, and set by the fire to boil gently. C]it the crust of the rolls into very small pieces, and put them into the tureen before the soup. SOUP DE SAUTfi. Lay six or eight slices of lean ham, with some beef over thera, at the bottom of a stewpan, then some veal, with some partridge legs, or moor game, or chickens, salt, peppercorns, Jamaica pepper, three or four cloves, a bay leaf, and one clove of garlic ; let the whole stew together till of a fine brown colour, and then fill it up with half water and half good beef stock; add three heads of celery, two good turnips, parsley, lemon thyme, two carrots, three large onions, and a small bunch of winter savory. When the whole is thoroughly done pass it through a lawn sieve into a basin, and cut two large-sized turnips and three large leeks into pieces about the thickness of a quill, and an inch and a half long : fry these together of a nice brown colour. Next shred two cabbage lettuces, celery, endive, sorrel, and chervil: stew them down ou a very slow fii'e with a small piece of butter. When done put them in a sieve with the turnips, then put them into a soup pot, and pour the soup from the basin over them; set it on a stove, skim it, and as soon as it boils set it on one side, and let it simmer for two hours very gently. Take the crumb of a couple of French rolls, and cut it into round pieces, which brown in the oven; put them into the tureen, and pour the soup upon them. If you think proper it may be clarified the same as other clear soups ; but the real soup de saute ought not to be clarified. SOUP, TRANSPARENT. Take a leg of veal, and, after cutting off the flesh as thin as possible, break the bone in small pieces ; put the meat into a large jug, with the fragments of the bone at the top, a bunch of sweet herbs, J oz. of mace, and J lb. of sweet almonds, blanched and beaten fine; pour thereon four ouarts of boiling water, set it over a slow fire, and let it stand to settle all night. The next day remove it into a stewpan, and let it simmer till it is reduced to two quarts, but be careful in taking off the scum and fat as they rise all the time it is boiling; strain it into a large basin, and let it stand two hours to settle ; then pour it into a clean stewpan clear from the sediment, and before serving up add to it 3 ozs. of boiled rice or 3 ozs. of vermicelli. SOUP, VEGETABLE. Put 3 ozs. of butter into a gallon stewpan, and while it is melting have ready 4 ozs. of onion cut in small pieces, one turnip, and one head of celery, which must be put into the pan; cover it closely, and let the whole fry till browned, which will be in about twenty-five minutes ; then put a pint of peas, with four quarts of water, in a saucepan, and when the roots are quite brown, and the peas come to a boil, put them together. As it boils skim it clean, and put in the top crust of a small loaf, twenty-four berries of allspice, as many of black pepper, and two blades of mace; cover the jjan closely, and simmer gently for one hour and a half; then remove it from the fire for ten minutes, pour it off very gently into a large basin, and let it stand about two hours till it is quite clear. In the meantime cut into small pieces a large turnip, the red part of a large carrot, 3 ozs. of onion minced, and one large head of celery cut small; put the pieces ot turnip and carrot on the fire in cold water, let them boil five minutes, and then drain them on a sieve; pour off the soup clear into a stewpan, add the roots, set the pan on the fire, and simmer gently till the vegetables are tender, which will be from thirty to forty minutes; season it with salt and Cayenne, and it is ready. A little mushroom catsup may be added. SOUP, WHITE (without Meat). Put two or three quarts of water into a saucepan, with the crumb of a small loaf, a bundle of sweet herbs, a few cloves, whole pepper, an onion or two cut across, and a little salt; cover closely, and boil till perfectly smooth. Cut into small pieces some celery, endive, and lettuce (the white parts only); boil them, strain off the soup into a clean stewpan, put in the herbs, with a good piece of butter, and keep stirring till it is melted; then boil it till quite smooth, skim it, soak some French roll nicely rasped in a little of the soup; put it in a tureen, pour the remainder of the soup over, and send to table. SOUPS. Lean juicy beef, mutton, and veal are the best for broth; but they should be as fresh as possible, for stale meat will give it a bad taste, and that which is fat is only so much wasted. Nothing can be more impolitic than