OAT OCT [ 262 ] and let it remain an hour to rise. After this roll it up with the hand, and pull it into pieces about the size of an egg; roll these out with a rolling-pin on plenty of flour ; cover them with flannel, and they will soon be of a proper thick- ness. Bake them on an iron plate. Toast them crisply on both sides, but without burning them ; then pull them open, lay in some butter, and put the two parts together again. OAT CAKES, SCOTCH. Make a paste of oatmeal and water seasoned with salt, and of sufficient consistence to admit of its being rolled out to the thinness of a school slate. Cut the cake into four equal parts crosswise, and bake on a girdle or stone slab over a fire. When done they are slightly browned before the fire. OATMEAL FLUMMERY (1). To three pints of water put one pint of bruised groats; let it stand two or three hours, then pour off the water, and put as much fresh water on as before, stirring it well. Let it stand four hours, then strain it through a hair sieve or cloth ; boil it, and keep stirring it all the while; put into it a little water now and then as it boils. When boiling drop a little on a plate, and if it does not stick to the plate it is done enough. OATMEAL FLUMMERY (2). Put ] J lb. of very fine white oatmeal to steep a day and a night in cold water; then pour it off clear, adding as much more water, and let it stand the same time , then strain it through a fine hair sieve, and boil it till it is about as thick as hasty pudding, stirring it all the time. When first strained put to it one large spoonful of white sugar, and two of orange-flower water; pour it on dishes, and serve to eat with new milk, or cream and sugar. It is very good with cold butter and molasses. OATMEAL GRUEL. See Gruel. OATMEAL PORRIDGE. Set some water on the fire in a saucepan, and when it boils season it with salt; then stir in oatmeal, taking care that it is sprinkled in so gradually through the fingers that it does not become lumpy. When of the consistence of hasty pudding let it boil from twenty minutes to half an hour, and then tarn it out on plates or in basins. It is generally eaten with milk, treacle, butter, sugar, or beer, and is very nutritious and whole- some food. OATMEAL PUDDING. Pour a quart of boihng milk over a pint of the very best fine oatmeal, and let it soak all night. The next day beat two eggs, and mix in a little salt; put it in a basin just large enough to hold it; cover it tightly with a floured cloth, and boil it an hour and a half. Eat it cold with butter and salt. The remainder may be sliced, toasted, and eat as oat cake buttered. OATMEAL PUDDING (Boiled or Baked UNDER Meat). Steep 1 lb. of nice oatmeal overnight in a quait of cream or milk; season it with sugar, a few beaten almonds, a little orange-flower water, rind of lemon, and a small bit of butter. Currants and raisins may be added, but they are not necessary. Boil it till smooth and thick. When nearly cold add six eggs; bake it with or without a paste border, and strew sugar over it, or boil and serve it with sweet sauce. If it is made without fruit a few currants may be put in the sauce. OATMEAL PUDDING (New Englakd Way). Steep a pint of coarse oatmeal in a quart of boiling milk overnight; in the morning shred ^ lb. of beef suet veiy finely, and mix with the oatmeal and milk some grated nutmeg and a little salt, with the yolks and whites of three eggs, \ lb. of currants, \ lb. of raisins, and a sufficient quantity of sugar to sweeten it. Stir the whole well together, tie it pretty closely, and boil it for two hours. Serve with melted butter for sauce. OCHRE. There are several native mixtures of argillaceous and calcareous earth and oxide of iron employed as paints and colours, under the generic name of ochre, and which are dis- tinguished from each other by differences in their colour or in their places of origin. The difference of colour depends partly on the state of oxidation of the iron, and partly on the pro- portion of oxide of iron present. The colour is sometimes modified by the application of heat. Ochres are generally prepared for use by the process of grinding and washing, in the same way as chalk. The different varieties are dis- tinguished as brown ochre, red ochre, yellow ochre; French ochre, which is yellow; Oxford ochre and Roman ochre, which are of a brownish yellow colour. Indian red and Spanish brown may also be classed among the ochres. October. Articles in season this month:— Fish. Salmon trout, dory, halibut, turbot, smelts, brills, gudgeon, pike, carp, tench, perch, lobsters, cockles, muscles, and oysters. Fruit. Apples, pears, peaches, grapes, figs, medlars, services, quinces, black and white buUace, walnuts, filberts, and hazel nuts. Meat. Beef, mutton, lamb, veal, pork, and doe venison. Poultry and Game. Geese, turkeys, pigeons, fowls, chickens, wild ducks, teal, widgeons, woodcocks, snipes, larks, dotterels, pheasants, partridges, hares, and rabbits. Vegetables. Cabbages, sprouts, cauliflowers, artichokes, carrots, parsnips, turnips, potatoes, skirrets, salsafy, scorzonera, leeks, shallots, garlic, rocambole, celery, endive, cardoons, chervil, chard-beet, corn salad, lettuce, young salad, thyme, savory, and all sorts of pot herbs.