[ 133 1 LEE LEE to slow decay. The leaf of the birch, which has two layers of nerves, gives a very beautiful skeleton; but that of the orange, which has three layers, is the most exquisite we have ever seen. The process of reducing them to a ske- leton is very simple. Select perfect leaves, and put them in a pan of very hot water, about 200°; let them remain in this for a fortnight or three weeks, without changing the water; take them out, and, if sufGciently soft- ened and decayed, place them one at a time on a flat board, holding the leaf by its stalk, and drawing the edge of a knife gently over the upper surface of the leaf. If this is decayed sufficiently the skin, or the chief part of it, will come off easily. Then turn the leaf, and take off the skin from that side in a similar manner. The skin being off from both sides, wash out in clean water the pulpy matter re- maining among the nerves, and the skeleton will be produced. If the skin does not readily leave the surface of a leaf it has not been a suf- ficient length of time in the water. Some leav.es will not bear the water in which they are put being very hot, and the only advantage is thai it hastens the progress of decay. For the same purpose the pan of water should be kept in a closet or elsewhere, at a temperature of about 70°. LEECHES. The Hirudo medicinalis, or medical leech, is from three to four inches in length. Its body is of a dark brown colour, with six yellow spots on the back, and a similar yellow line on each side, though in some seasons these distinguishing marks are rather imperfect, and almost totally disappear. Its head is srnaller than the tail, and adheres very firmly. This species is viviparous, inhabits clear running waters, and jjroduces in July only one J'oung insect at a time. The medicinal leech is the only one used for local bleedings. It may be applied with great safety and advantage, especially for obstinate headaches arising from fulness of blood, as well as in many cases of external inflammation, with a view to extract the thick and superfluous humour with which the vessels are overcharged. If the leech will not readily fix itself a few drops of milk may be rubbed on the spot where it is to perform the operation, or a little blood may be drawn by making a slight puncture, after which it will immediately settle. When employed for relieving the piles, or to extract blood from the gums, it is requisite to secure the insect with a piece of rush, to prevent it either from creeping into the anus or gullet, in wTiich cases it would occasion great distress in the stomach or intestines. To induce the leech to quit its hold when it adheres longer than required, a little common salt may be strewed on its head. On the contrai-y, if it be intended to draw a larger quantity of blood, the tail of the leech should be cut off, in consequence of which it continues to draw blood in order to repair the loss it has sustained. The discharge occasioned by the puncture of a leech is easily stopped with brandy, vinegar, &c., or" may bo kept open by applying warm fomentations. To apply leeches successfully it is essential that the patient's skin be perfectly clean and soft, and, as commonly a lotion has been used to the part before the leeches are employed, considerable attention is often required before this can be washed entirely off. Hot water with soap must first be used until the part is clean, and then the soap must be carefully removed by means of pure water. When the skin is in this state leeches will bite very readily when they are fresh and hungry. The best mode of applying them is to let the leech crawl on a dry piece of linen for a little time; or better, if it has been kept in a vessel without water for some time beforehand, to take it in a bit of soft linen between the thumb and finger, and, when it projects its pointed mouth from between the folds of the linen, to direct it to the spot intended for it to act on. In this way the leech will generally fasten at the first touch, and it will at all events fasten more readily, since it is prevented from cover- ing the skin with slime, and thus sheathing it from its own bite and that of other leeches. The most skilful appliers of leeches use this method, and they gain celebrity by thus throwing them on the part, as some of them express it. Another way is to put the leeches into a wine- glass or pill-box, and then to invert the glass or box on the proper part. This method does not answer when the leeches are not lively, for they will fix on the sides of the vessels so as not to be again made to touch the skin. This difficulty may generally be obviated by putting more leeches into the vessel or vessels than are wis'hed to be applied, and removing them when the proper number have adhered. In cases of difficulty it is often advantageous to cover the part with cream or milk, or better to touch the head of the leech with a drop of vinegar; or to make small incisions in the skin (of the operator, perhaps, if the patient be a sleeping child) by means of a lancet; or, if ,one leech has adhered, to take it off again, and use the blood to entice others to do likewise. ^ Mr. Thomson says, in the " London Dispensa> tory," that a leech may certainly be made to bite on any assigned spot by putting it into a quill which is open at both ends, and, after placing the end containing the leech's head on the part, stopping up the other end by means of the