YEN [ 530 ] VEN shoulder of venison may be done in the same ■way. VENISON PASTY, HOT. Bone a breast of venison, beat it flat, cut it in large pieces, season it thoroughly, lay it in a stone jar, and pour over it drawn beef gravy ; lay the bones on the top, put the jar in a saucepan of water over the fire, let it simmer for three or four hours, and set it in a cold place the following day ; then put a puff paste tolerably thick round the edge of a deep dish, lay the meat in the dish, having first taken off the cake of fat from the top, and if not sufficiently seasoned add more pepper, salt, and allspice ; pour in part of the liquor, add some port wine, egg the bottom paste, and lay on a thick top paste; trim and egg it, and let it bake rather more than an hour in a moderate oven. Eeduce the remainder of the liquor with half a bottle of port wine till very strong, add a little Cayenne, and pour this into the pasty before serving. VENISON PIE, or Pasty. All kinds of meat intended for pies or pasties must be highly spiced when served hot, and still more highly when served cold ; but the seasoning must be regulated by judgment and taste. Take one or two breasts of venison, according to the size you wish to make your pie or pasty ; bone them thoroughly, beat them very flat, and lard them through and through with large lardons, well seasoned with all sorts of spices, and sweet herbs finely chopped; roll them up as tightly as possible, and tie thena with strong twine. Put into a stewpan the bones and trimmings of the venison, with carrots, onions, parsley, one clove of garlic, thyme, bay leaf, peppercorns, and allspice, and let all stew till nearly dry; fill it up with beef or mutton braise and water, and let it boil very gently till done; then put in the roll of venison, place paper on the top, cover very closely, and let it stew gently with fire under and over. When sufficiently done take it off the fire, and let it stand in the liquor till nearly cold; then pre- pare a plain paste of 4 lbs. of flour to I lb. of butter, the same as for a raised pie; but, instead of making it stiff, mix it as soft as possible ; lay part of this paste as thickly as you well can round the edge of the dish ; cut off' the twine from the venison, skin and lay it in the dish, and pour in some of the gravy in which it was stewed; put on the cover, trim it very neatly, make a hole in the top, do it over with egg, and bake it in a moderate oven for three or four hours ; reduce the remainder of the liquor the venison was stewed in, and when the pie is baked pour it in. Serve it cold. The pasty can scarcely be made too thick. VENISON PIE, PLAIN, Cut from the bone some good pieces of fresh venison, season them with a little salt and pepper, and put them into a pot, with plenty of sliced potatoes (either white or sweet), and barely as much water as will cover the whole; set it over the fire, and let it stew slowly till the meat is tender, and the potatoes also. Make a paste of shortened flour with cold gravy, or dripping saved from roast venison: the fat must be removed from the surface of the cold gravy, of which you may allow half a pint to each pound of flour. Mix half the shortening with the flour, using a broad knife or spoon for the purpose, and adding gradually sufficient cold water to make it into a stiff dough ; beat the lump of dough well on all sides with the rolling- pin, then take it out of the pan, roll it into a tliick sheet, and spread evenly over it with a knife the remainder of the dripping; flour it, fold it up, beat it with the rolhug-pin, let it rest a short time, and then roll it out again. Divide it into two sheets, grease a pie dish, and line the bottom and sides with one sheet; put in the venison and potatoes, with a portion of the gravy; lay on the other sheet of paste as a lid, and crimp the edges; set the pie in the oven, and bake it brown. Eat it either hot or cold. If you have no cold venison diipping use dripping of cold roast beef, or an equal mixture of lard and butter. A beef pie may be made as above. Mutton pies are not recommended, as mutton cooked in a pie is entirely too strong. The fat or dripping of mutton should never be used in any sort of cooking, as it tastes exactly like tallow, which it really is. Paste for meat pies should be made very thick. An ex- cellent pot pie may be made with venison and potatoes previously stewed together. Boiled paste is always best when shortened with minced suet. Beef suet is superior to any other. VENISON, POTTED. Put the venison into a pan, pour red wine over it, and cover it with 1 lb. of butter ; put a paste over the pan, set it in the oven, and let it be well baked, When done take the meat out of the gravy, beat it fine with butter that has risen to the top, and add more if necessary; season with pepper, salt, and pounded mace ; put it into pots, and set them in the oven for a few minutes ; then take them out, and when cold cover with clarified butter. VENISON PUDDING. Take nice steaks of fresh venison, season them slightlj' with salt and pepper, put them into a pot with a piece of fresh butter, and stew them in barely sufficient water to keep them from scorching. When they are quite tender take them up, cut all the meat from the bones, and set it to cool; save