[ 534 ] VEI YEN VEILS. See Lace. VEINS, VARICOSE, or Knotted. For ihe following we are indebted to Dr. Macaulay's "Dictionary of Medicine." Ill different parts, especially of the lower extremities, there are sometimes seen a number of unequal knotty swellings of a deep blue colour, occasioned by portions of the veins being dilated. The cause of these swellings is the obstruction to the free passage of the blood through the veins: hence tumours in the groin may cause varicose veins of the legs, and the appearance of such veins is frequent in pregnant women, from the enlarged uterus and its contents pressing on the large trunks of the veins. Sometimes the com- plaint arises from general debility, and from a sedentary life. When the distention is great there is considerable pain; and the veins may be eroded, and cause a great discharge of blood, or troublesome and obstinate ulcers may be pro- duced. The pain and inconvenience of varicose veins are not great at first, and hence they are too often neglected till they become very difficult of cure. Treatment. The varicose veins of pregnant women go off when they are delivered, and require very little treatment except attention to posture. In other cases a moderate pressure by bandages, and diminishing the force of the circulation by small bleedings, is requisite. A laced stocking makes a good and equal pressure. It has been proposed to cut varicose veins across by introducing a bistoury behind them, and in some instances this plan has succeeded ; but the instances of failure, and of death in consequence of the operation, have been so numerous, that Sir Astley Cooper says it must be considered as wilful murder to attempt it. VELOUTE. Take 4 lbs. of the cuttings and remains of any joint of veal and fowl you may have in the house, and put into a large stewpan, with some carrots, onions, parsley, scallions, three bay leaves, three cloves, and a ladleful of stock ; put your stewpan on a fierce fire, skim it well, take care the meat does not stick, and wlien sufficiently reduced add as much stock as will fill the stewpan, and salt it well; give it a boil, skim it, and then put it on the side of the fire for two hours, after which strain it through a tammy. Make a whiter roux, stir into it for ten minutes a few champignons, and then pour on it, a little at a time, the above liquor ; let it boil up once, skim it, and set it by the side of the fire for an hour and a half; then take off the fat, strain it again, and put it by for use. Take care that the veloute is not coloured, as the whiter it is the better. The veloute travaille is done in the same man- ner as the Espagnole. VELVET. The art of removing the lint, dust, and light matters adhering to velvet, con- sists in the proper mode of managing the brusli. Take a hat-brush (not too soft, but having the bristles elastic, and returning at once to their original state after being pressed aside), hold it firmly under the palm of the hand in the direction of the arm, and with the bristles down- ward, and pressing them first gently into the substance of the velvet, then twist round the arm, hand, and brush all together, as on an axis, without moving them forward or backward. The foreign matters will thus be drawn up and flirted out of the flock without injury to the sub- stance of the velvet, and the brush must be lifted up and placed in a similar manner over every part requii'ed to be brushed. By this means velvet will be improved instead of de- teriorated, and will last for years. VENISON. Buck venison continues in season during the months of June, July, August, and September, and doe venison in Octobei', November, and December. In the choice of venison observe whether the fat be thick, bright, and clear, and the clefts are smooth and close, in which case the animal is young; but if the clefts are very wide and tough it is old. Venison begins to taint at the haunches and shoulders, to ascertain which run a knife into those parts, and on smelling it, if the scent be sweet, you may conclude the meat is fresh, but if strong the reverse. Should there be any greenish or yellowish spots upon the surface, or its general appearance be of a blackish cast, the tlesh is certainly tainted. VEiSflSON: To Collar. Bone a side of venison, take out the sinews, and cut the meat into square collars ; lard it with bacon in very small bits : season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and cloves ; then roll it up and tie it with tape. Put the venison into deep pots, with seasoning at the bottom of each, fresh butter, and three or four bay leaves; lay the remainder with seasoning and butter on the top, and over that beef suet firmly beaten; cover the pots with coarse paste, and bake them four or five hours. V/hen done let them stand a little, take the venison out of the pots, and drain it; add more butter to the fat, set it over a slow fire to clarify, and then take it off and slum it; put. at the bottom of each pot a little seasoning and clarified butter, and lay the venison upon it, with butter over all, about an inch deep. When a pot is wanted for use put it into boiling water, and it will come out whole. VENISON: To Fky. If it is a neck or breast of venison bone it, but if it be a shoulder cut off the meat in slices. Make some gravy with the bones, then fry the meat till brown, take it up, and keep it hot before the fire; put butter and flour in the pan, and keep the whole