MAT MAS [ 19^ ] mony, 1 scruple ; gamboge, 10 grains ; honey to with some pieces of wild rabbits, lamb, and paste may not stick; exit it into any form, round, long, &c., and put them into a very slow oven, that tliey may Lardly take any colour. Glaze them with a sugar icing, into which there has been put some lemon juice. Dry them in a stove. MASSEPAINS, SYRINGED. Take 1 lb. of sweet almonds, skin and dry them well, and "beat them in a marble mortar with the whites of ,eggs, always remembering to add more whites should they be too dry. Being well beaten, add a little gi'ated lemon, with li lb. of sifted sugar; beat these together into a paste, put it into a star syringe, and squirt it upon paper which has been cut into convenient lengths to form rings, \vhich must be arranged on the paper and put into a slow oven. MASTICATION. A most important con- sideration for those troubled with dyspepsia is the fact that, without a thorough chewing or mastication of food, there can be no good di- gestion, and that the dyspeptic pains and in- conveniences are exasperated in proportion to the neglect of mastication. MASTICH. This resin is obtained by wounding the bark of the Pistachia lentiscus. As an internal remedy mastich is now little used; it is employed chiefiy to fill the cavities of carious teeth, for which it is well fitted by its softness ; and the following mode of applying it may not be unacceptable to a great mass of our readers :—Dissolve one part of mastich in one part of ether in a bottle well stopped. With the solution thus formed, which is of a yellow colour and oily consistence, saturate a small piece of cotton of the size of the carious cavity, and, having well cleansed and dried the cavity, introduce the cotton, without painful pressure, so as to fill it exactly. The ether is soon eva- porated, and the resin, remaining soft and adhe- sive, attaches itself to the diseased surface of the tooth, which it protects from the action of the air and of the food taken into the mouth. The women, and even the men, of Turkey chew this resin, particulai'ly in the morning, not only to render their breath more agreeable, but to whiten the teeth and strengthen the gums ; they also mix it with their fragrant waters, and burn it with other odoriferous substances in the ■way of fumigation. A brilliant varnish is made by dissolving mastich in alcohol or oil of tur- pentine ; and a solution made by macerating 1 oz. of mastich and 15 grains of caoutchouc in 2 fluid ozs. of chloroform, and filtering in close vessels, forms a varnish highly esteemed by some microscopists., MATCHES. See Lucifees. MATELOTE AU BOUILLON. Take the wings of turkey poults, pheasants, or partridges, slices of bacon; put them into a stewpan, with equal quantities of stock and champagne, half a glass of olive oil, salt, pepper, and garlic ; cover the pan closely, and stew till reduced to court hoidUoii; then lay the pieces on a dish, and pour the sauce over them. If it should be too thick add a glass of consomme. MATELOTE OF BUTCHERS' MEAT. Take beef, veal, mutton, and pork, a large slice of each, and a small slice of leg of lamb; cut them in small pieces, which put into a saucepan, with equal quantities of stock and champagne, salt and spices. Cover them very closely, set them on hot ashes for six houre, and then MATELOTE A LA CALONNE. Take six fowl pinions, a dozen crayfish, some veal sweetbreads, pieces of rabbit, a large eel stuck with anchovies, and cut in pieces three inches long, small onions, morels, streaked bacon, pepper, salt, and a glass of stock. Set these, except the eel and pinions, on a slow fire for half an hour; then add a pint of champagne, some more stock, and two spoonsful of oil, and keep them on the fire. Put the eel and pinions into a separate saucepan, and when three parts done add them to the rest, and finish stewing. As soon as the matelote is sufficiently thick lake the pieces out with a fork, arrange them on a dish according to your taste, lay fried bread round, and in the centre the sauce and court bouillon. MATELOTE HOLLANDAISE. Take a neck of veal, two young pigeons, a small fowl or capon, and some turkeys' pinions; put iJicni into a saucepan with some good stock, set them on the fire till about half done, and then add lb. of rice; cover the whole very closely, and let it stew over a small fire for two hours ; then take it off, pour it into a dish, and serve. MATELOTE PROVENCALE. Take a leveret and a brace of partridges, half roast, and cut them in pieces ; take also some small soles, smelts, or any other kind of fish; put them all into a saucepan, together with a glass of cham- pagne, two of stock, salt, pepper, oil, and six cloves of garlic bruised; boil them to a court bouillon as other matelotes. Dish them gar- nished with veal sweetbreads in consomme. MATHIEU'S VERMIFUGE, or Worm Medicine. This consists of two electuaries ; the one for killing the worms, and the other for ex- pelling them. Tin filings, 1 oz.; fern root, 6 drachms; worm seed, 4 drachms; resinous extract of jalap and sulphate of potash, of each 1 di-achm ; honey to mix. Dose, a tea-spoonful evei7 three hours for two days. Or, jalap and sulphate of potash, of each 2 scruples; scam-