[ 500 ] TRO TEU cloves, mace, savoiy, sweet niaijoram, thyme, rosemary, bay leaf, and two onions; let all these boil together for a quarter of an hour ; put the fish in a pan, pour the marinade to them hot, put in as much oil as vinegar and wliite wine, which must be according to the quantity offish, as there should be a sufficient quantity of liquor to cover them ; they will then keep for a month. Serve with oil and vinegar. TROUT PIE. Nicely lard a couple of trout with eels; raise a crust, and put a layer of fresh butter at the bottom; make a forcemeat of trout, mushrooms, truffles, morels, and fresh butter ; season with salt, pepper, and spice, and bind it with the yolks of two raw eggs ; stuff the trout with this forcemeat, then lay them in the pie upon the butter, and cover them with butter; put on the lid, and send it to the oven. When done pour in some good fish gravy. TROUT, SOUSED. Well wash a couple of trout; then take three pints of white wine vinegar, a quart of water, an onion stuck with cloves, a little lemon-peel, a bunch of sweet hei-bs, some pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace : boil all these together in a large stewpan, and when they have boiled some time put in the fish. As soon as they are done lay them in a dish till they are cold, pour off the liquor, take out the onion and herbs, and let it stand till cold; then take off all the fat, and pour the liquor over the fish: they will be ready for use the next day. If sent to table hot serve with shrimp or lobster sauce, made with the pickle, and garnish the dish with fried smelts. They are very good served cold. TROUT, STEWED. Take a small trout, and stuff it with grated bread, a bit of butter, parsley chopped, lemon-peel grated, pepper, salt, rutmeg, and savoury herbs; bind with yolk of egg, put it into a stewpan, with a quart of good boiled gravy, some Madeira wine, an onion, a little whole pepper, a few cloves, and a piece of lemon-peel ; let all stew gently till done, then thicken with a little flour mixed in some cream, and a little catsup; boil it up, and squeeze in a little lemon juice. TROUT WITH TRUFFLES. When scaled and cleaned lard them with truffles, and fill each with some fine truffle farce; then braise them in wine, with truffles, white onions, artichoke bottoms, salt, and pepper. Serve them with a ragout of sliced truffles. TRUFFLE OMELET. Fry your omelet as usual, and when nearly done take out with a spoon the thick part of the middle, and put in its place some truffles lightly fried in a little Espagnole. As soon as the omelet is finished lay it on a dish, mince two truffles very small, give them a few turns over the fire in a little butter, add four ladlesful of Espagnole, and pour this sauce over the omelet TRUFFLE SAUCE (1). Mince two or three truffles very small, and toss them up lightly- in oil or butter according to your taste; then put to them four or five ladlesful of veloute and a spoonful of consomme; let them boil for a quarter of hour over a gentle fire, skim oif all the fat, and keep your sauce hot in the bain- marie. TRUFFLE SAUCE (2). Take eight truffles, clean and cut them round, and then cut them in thin slices in a stewpan; set them to stew gently with a small piece of butter; when well stewed add two table-spoonsful of con- somme, and let them simmer till nearly dry; then put in some bechamel sauce (the quantity must be regulated to what you want it for), make it very hot, squeeze in a little lemon juice, and it is then ready. If j'ou wish the sauce to be brown put in Espagnole instead of bechamel sauce. TRUFFLES. The truffle, like the mush- room, is a species of fungus, common in France and Italy. It generally grows eight or ten inches below the surface of the ground. As it imparts a most delicious flavour it is much used in cookery. Being dug out of the earth, it requires a great deal of washing and brushing before it can be applied to culinary purposes. When washed the water should be warm, and changed frequently. It loses much of its flavour ■when dried. TRUFFLES; To Keep. Make a choice of the blackest truffles, and let them be fresh gathered. When thoroughly washed and brushed peel them carefully with a sharp knife, reject all that are not perfectly sound, put them into bottles as closely as they will lie, cork them tightly, and boil them for an hour in the baiir- marie. TRUFFLES IN THE ASHES. Take twelve truffles dressed with champagne, have as many small slices of bacon as you have truffles, cut a quantity of square pieces of paper, and on some of these put a bit of bacon and a truffle, seasoned with pepper, salt, and pounded spice; wrap in the bacon first, and then in the paper. When all are done dip each paper into cold water, and tlien put them into hot ashes like chestnuts. In an hour's time they will be sufficiently done. Take off the two outer coverings and serve. TRUFFLES WITH CHAMPAGNE. Take twelve cleaned truffles, put them into a stew- pan on rashers of bacon, add a bay leaf, a seasoned bouquet, a little grated bacon, some stock, a slice or two of ham, and a bottle of champagne; cover them with a piece of buttered paper, put on the lid, set the stewpan on hot ashes, put fire on the top, and let them stew for an hour. When done