TUR [ 504 ] TUR l)1ac!e of a knife; cover it with Lread crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, and pour some melted butter on it. Garnish your disli with fried bread, put it in the oven to colour, and serve. TURBOT, GRILLED. Split the fish down the back, and soak it for some time with melted butter, parsley, sweet herbs, salt, and pepper. Bread the turbot well, broil, and serve it with lemon or Seville orange juice. TURBOT WITH MACARONI. Take the remains of a turbot which has been dressed the preceding way, and pick it from the bone ; put it into hot water to make it separate into flakes, and then put it into some very good cream sauce, with a little pipe macaroni well boiled. Be particular there is no water either in the flakes of turbot or the macaroni, as it would , spoil the sauce. When made very hot in the sauce put it on a dish, strew bread crumbs over it, and sprinkle some clarified butter over with a spoon; then strew bread crumbs again, brown it with a salamander, and serve. TURBOT WITH PARMESAN. Soak a couple of turbots in melted butter, with shred parsley, shallots, pepper, and salt. When they have lain about an hour pour the butter, &c., on a dish, with a little cullis, grated bread, and Parmesan cheese in equal quantities ; place the fish on it, cover them in the same manner, and bake. TURBOT, ROE OF : To Dhess. This is the most delicate of roes, resembling between calf's brains and sweetbreads, and is more deli- cate and beautiful, and may be dressed in various Avaj's ; but much attention must be paid in handling it. Roasted in the oven, on the spit, in a caul, ragouted, or fricasseed white, garnished with lemon and crayfish, it makes a beautiful second-course side dish where the French style is introduced, and at our table an elegant first course one. TURBOT SALAD. Skin and dress the turbot; cut it in any form, dress it high in the middle of the dish, garnish it with slips of anchovies, capers, truffles, beet-root, &c., and fill up the spaces with hearts of lettuce cut in skeins, like threads, or any form. Garnish it with pickled onions, &c., and serve it with a sauce of oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. All sorts of fish may be served in the same way in salads, with sauce to the taste, or covered with savoury jelly- TURBOT, STUFFED AND BAKED. Your turbot being properly cleansed, turn over the skin of the under side without cutting it off. Make a farce with some butter, parsley, scallions, morels, sweet herbs, all shred, united together with yolks of eggs, and seasoned with pepper and salt. Spread this all over the under part of the fish, cover it over with the skin, and sew it up. Dissolve some butter in the saucepan, and add to it, when melted, the yolk of an egg, sweet herbs shred, salt, and pepper ; rub the fish all over with this, then bread and bake it. TURBOT WITH WHITE SAUCE. Put some sliced onion, thyme, basil, and sweet herbs into a stewpan; place a small turbot on these, strew similar herbs, salt, pepper, and a leek cut in pieces over it; cover the fish with equal quantities of vinegar and white wine, and let it boil over a moderate fire until sufficiently done. In the meantime melt 1 lb. of butter; add to it a couple of boned anchovies, two spoonsful of capers shred small, two or three leeks, salt, pepper, nutmeg, a little vinegar, water, and a sprinkle of flour ; make aU these quite hot, stii'ring constantly till done ; then dish the turbot, pour the sauce over it, and serve. TUREEN, ROYAL. Take some fillets of kid and lamb, a fat pheasant, two partridges, a leveret, and two pigeons; lard all these with streaked bacon, and j^lace them in a large braisiiig-pan on slices of bacon and veal, with salt and spices; pour over them a pint of good stock, close the pan, lute the edges with paste, and set it on a moderate fire for sis. hours. In the meantime take some veal sweetbreads, and truffles boiled with white wine, and boiled with any article you please; put them into some good stock, and let them simmer for some time. When your braise is quite done pour it into a tureen, placing the largest pieces at the bottom, the sweetbread, &c., over all the rest, and serve. TURKEY: To Carve. Whether roasted or boiled a turkey is served up like a fowl, and cut up in the same manner as a pheasant. The best parts are the wings, breast, and neck-bones. The neck itself is taken away, and the cavity under the breast stuffed with forcemeat, which must be cut into thin slices from the rump to the neck, and a portion given with a piece of the turkey. The common practice is not to cut up more than the breast or one of the w'ings; but this must be regulated by circumstances, and the number of guests at the table. TURKEY: To Choose. It is remarkable that a bird so tender to rear in England as the turkey should abound in the woods of