RIB RIB [ 394 ] by the shoot only once in five times, as in 8-lisse or the superior satins. French satins were formerly made from 6-lisse to 10-lisse. Satins are woven with the face downwards, as it is easier to raise the harness connected with 5 or |- of the warp each time that the shuttle passes than to raise g or ^. The number of dents and shoots to the inch is nearly the same for satin as for lutestring. The threads between each dent are generally put in odd numbers, 9, 11, 13, which is supposed to fall in better, and produce a better surface. The French satins are lighter in make than the English; but they have a peculiar richness and lustre, owing to their superior silk. French ribbons in general have less weight of silk than the English. The transparency of Gauze is produced by the kind of thread of which it is made—the fine hard- twisted marabout, which leaves the interstices clear. One warp-thread only passes between each dent of the sleigh, and these are closer together, in general, than lutestrings and satins : in fine gauzes 86 or more dents, and from 90 to 120 shoots to the inch. The plain gauze ribbons made at Coventry, called China gauzes, are chiefly those used for mourning—white, black, and lavender, with satin or ground stripes. Floret Gauzes and Taffeties are light ribbons made of organzine warp-shot with hard or marabout silk. There is considerably less labour in these than in other gauzes. They are largely manufactured at Bedworth. Loves are inferior gauzes made of organzine, and singles dyed hard, or upon the gum. Petershams, or Pads (derived perhaps from the French padou, a coarse ribbon used by tailors, made of linen and silk, often stiffened by gum), are stout, thick ribbons used for the waist. The sleighs employed for making plain ribbons {taffetas) in France have about 51 dents to the inch, for satin 54, for gauze 73-78-84, for velvet 36-42. These ribbons all belong to the plain trade. The fancy trade comprises the manufacture of the same fabrics figured, under the heads of figured sarsenets, satins, gauzes, and pads. Tlie figures ai-e frequently produced in a different colour from the ground by the mixture of colours in the warp, the colours being warped separately. In the intervals of the figures the coloured threads are carried along the under side of the ribbon. It is said to have a double or treble figure according to the number of colours passing through each dent. In some ribbons, gauzes in particular, these threads are cut away by the scissors after the ribbon is made. This is called clipping. A change of colour in the shoot is effected by the use of different shuttles. In brocades the figure is made by small additional shuttles thrown in partially across the ribbon as the pattern may re- quire, the connecting threads of shoot being clipped off. By damask is meant the laying of the warp over the shoot to form the figure in the manner of satin. The patterns are some- ^ times geometrical, but more frequently com- binations of leaves, sprigs, or flowers. In the superior French ribbons groups and wreaths of flowers are executed with the richness and variety of hand embroidery. The French are continually introducing novelties in colouring and in texture. In some of these the ribbon is laid over with a slight covering like crape, by means of a warp of hard silk woven in loosely over the other. In another the ribbon is made, by stamping, to assume the appeai'ance of lace. Some fancy ribbons are of plain texture, but varied in colouring. They are shot or woven in shades, sti'ipes, bars, or cheques, called in trade plaits. These last, which require the shuttle to be changed very frequently, are still made in the single-hand loom. In shot ribbons the warp and the shoot are of different colours. A pearl-edge is frequently given to all kinds of ribbon except the narrower widths of sarsenet. This is formed by the shoot passing over horse- hairs placed outside the warp parallel with it, and raised in like manner by the lisses. As the hairs are dra^vn out the silk is left in loops at the edge. Many varieties of ornamental edges, as scallop, fringes, &c., are produced hy draivini/ in. The shoot in this case stops short of the edge of the ribbon, catching in an additional thread of silk, sometimes of a different colour, which it draws in its place, and which is delivered from a bobbin at the back of the loom, and is in a manner darned into the ground of the ribbon. Clodding is a peculiar management in the dyeing, by which a change of hue is produced in the same thread of silk. The silk, already warped, is tied up, and wound closely round with packthread at regular intervals of more or less than an inch, so that the intermediate spaces only are penetrated by the dye. In one species of fancy ribbon, called chine, the figures are printed or painted on the warp after it is prepared for the loom, and afterwards woven in by the shuttle; others are embossed after the mode of the Parisian Chandelier. Ribbons are watered by passing two pieces together between two cylinders, one of which has a heater within it. The irregular pressure of the inequalities of the two surfaces of silk against each other produces a wavy appearance. Satins are soft and flossy when taken out of the loom : to smooth and stiffen them they are