[ 80 1 IRO IRI spasmodic asthma, as well as in obstinate coughs ; and a dose of 3 or 4 grains every morn- ing in chronical asthmatic cases. If the root is reduced to powder the dose for a grown up person is from 15 to 20 grains ; for a child above a few weeks old, from 6 to 12 grains according to the age. White wine extracts the emetic properties of ipecacuanha ; and the ipe- cacuanha wine is a very good form of adminis- tering it, provided there be no great degree of fever present. To a child a tea-spoonful of the wine may be given every ten minutes till it operates. The root of ipecacuanha was at one time a very favourite remedy in dysentery, and it still may be used as a powerful auxiliary to other means. Like other emetics, or perhaps with virtues superior in this respect, it proves an excellent expectorant, and may be taken for this purpose in doses of 3 or 4 grains three times a day, or made up into lozenges with some sweet or aromatic substance. The ipe- cacuanha lozenges commonly sold contain half a grain each. In nauseating doses it is very- useful in hemorrhages from the lungs and uterus. Combined with opium it forms the celebrated Dover's powder. IRISH CAKES. Take 1 lb. of butter beaten to a cream, f lb. of sugar sifted and dried, nine eggs (the yolks and whites beaten separately), Jib. of almonds blanched and sliced, lb. of currants picked and dried, and the same weight of flour, also dried. When the butter has been worked with the hand to a cream sift in the sugar, which should be quite hot. When mixed pour in the yolks of eggs, and then add the whites ; work it half an hour, then add the flour by degrees, and when thoroughly mixed put in a very small tea-cupful of brandy. The currants and almonds, with ^ lb. of citron peel, should be added just before the cakes are placed in the oven, which should be hot. The cake should be beaten an hour. The hand must be kept moving in the same way, and not taken out. IRISH MOSS. See Carageen Moss. IRISH MOSS BLANC-MANGER. Wash in three waters \ oz. of Carageen moss, drain, and put it into two quarts of new milk; let it boil for a few minutes, strain it into a pitcher, wet the moulds, and pour it in while hot. Let the blanc-manger stand till it becomes thick, when it may be eaten with sugar and cream, seasoned with peach or rose water, or with a lemon rolled in sugar. Some prefer seasoning the blanc-manger before putting it in the moulds. It will keep in a cool place two days, and is better to be made the day before it is eaten. IRISH PUFFS. Add to five well-beaten yolks and two whites of eggs a large spoonful of flour, not quite 1 oz. of melted butter, and half a tea-spoonful of salt; beat all well for ten minutes, and add half a pint of cream. Bake in buttered tea-cups, turn them out, and serve them with a sweet sauce. IRISH STEW. Take 2 lbs. ot neclc or loin chops, peel and slice 2 lbs. of potatoes, and ^ lb. of large onions. First put into a stewpan a layer of potatoes, then chops and onions, and so on till full, sprinkling pepper and salt upon each layer; then pour in cold water or broth, cover the pan, and stew over a veiy slow fire for an hour and a half, or until the meat bo done. Before serving add two table-spoonsful of mushroom catsup. IRON. After the ore is dug out of the earth it is crushed in a mill and washed in a stream, in order to separate the grosser particles of earth. Next it is melted in furnaces heated with coke, charcoal, peat, or turf, near the bottom of which, by means of a tap-hole, the liquid metal is discharged into furrows made in a bed of sand. The larger mass, which settles in the main furrow, is called by the work- men a sow, and the smaller ones ings of iron. Stoves, grates, &c., are formed by casting ladles- ful of the rough metal into proper moulds made of sifted sand. In this state it is called caH iron; but if cooled too hastily it becomes brittle, and is apt to crack like unannealed glass : it is not malleable, and is so hard as to resist the file. With a view to improve it the raw iron is now melted down a second time in another furnace, where a strong blast of air is impelled on the surface of the metal, in conse- quence of which its fusion is considerably facili- tated, and the iron concretes into a mass called a loop, that is conveyed beneath a large hammer raised by the motion of a water-wheel. The metal is there beaten into a thick square form, again heated so as nearly to melt it, and then forged. By repeating this process the iron is rendered perfectly malleable, and at length formed into bars for sale. Besides the cast and forged iron there is an intermediate state, in which the metal is soft and tough. This is called steel, and is usually made from the best forged iron by cementation with certain inflammable matters. Besides its utility as a material for imple- ments of agriculture, &c., iron is eminently adapted to the purpose of dyeing cotton. The oxide of iron has so great an affinity for cotton thread that, if the latter be immersed in a satu- rated solution of this metal in any acid, it as- sumes instantaneously a chamois yellow colour, which becomes more or less deep according to the strength of the liquors, and the length of time it has been exposed to the air. The colour thus communicated is fixed ; resists both air and water, and also alkaline leys; nor is its durability in the least affected by washing it