TYP TYP [ 515 ] Inflammatory and nervous fevers may be converted into malignant and putrid hy top hot a regimen or improper medicines. The duration of putrid fevers is extremely uncertain ; sometimes they terminate between the seventh and fourteenth day, and at other times they are prolonged for five or six weeks. Their duration depends greatly upon the con- stitution of the patient, and the manner of treating the disease. The most favourable symptoms are a gentle looseness after the fourth or fifth day, with a ■warm mild sweat. These, when continued for a considerable time, often carry off the fever, and should never be imprudently stopped. Small miliary pustules, appearing between the petechias or purple spots, are likewise favour- able, as also hot scabby eruptions about the mouth and nose. It is a good sign when the pulse rises upon the use of wine or other cordials, and the nervous symptoms abate. Deafness coming on towards the decline of the fever is likewise often a favourable symptom, as are abscesses in the groin or parotid glands. Among the unfavourable symptoms may be reckoned an excessive looseness, with a hard swelled belly, large black or livid blotches breaking out upon the skin, aphthae in the mouth, cold clammy sweats, blindness, change of the voice, a wild staring of the eyes, difficulty of swallowing, inability to put out the tongue, and a constant inclination to uncover the breast. When the sweat and saliva are tinged ■with blood, and the urine is black, or deposits a black sooty sediment, the patient is in great danger. Starting of the tendons, and fetid, ichorous, involuntary stools, attended ■with cold- ness of the extremities, are generally the fore- runners of death. In the treatment of this disease we ought to endeavour, as far as possible, to counteract the putrid tendency of the humours, to support the patient's strength and spirits, and to assist nature in expelling the cause of this disease, by gently promothig perspiration and the other evacuations. It has been observed that putrid fevers are often occasioned by unwholesome air, and of course they must be aggravated by it. Care should, therefore, be taken to prevent the air from stagnating in the patient's chamber, to keep it cool, and renew it frequently by opening the doors or windows of some adjacent apart- ment. The breath and perspiration of persons in perfect health soon render the air of a small apartment noxious ; but this will sooner happen from the perspiration and breath of a person whose whole mass of humours are in a putrid state. Besides the frequent admission of fresh air, we would recommend the use of vinegar, ver- juice, juice of lemon, Seville orange, or any kind of vegetable acid that can be most readily obtained. These ought frequently to be sprinkled upon the floor, the bed, and every part of the room. They may also be evapo- rated with a hot iron or by boiling, &c. The fresh skins of lemons or oranges ought like- wise to be laid in different parts of the room, and they should be frequently held to the patient's nose. The use of acids in this manner would not only prove very refreshing to the patient, but would likewise tend to prevent the infection from spreading among those who attend him. Strong - scented herbs, as rue, tansy, rosemary, wormwood, &c., may likewise be laid in different parts of the house, and smelled to by those who go near the patient. The patient must not only be kept cool, but likewise quiet and easy. The least noise will affect his head, and the smallest fatigue will be apt to make him faint. Few things are of greater importance in this disease than acids, which ought to be mixed with all the patient's food as well as drink. Orange, lemon, and vinegar whey are all very proper, and may be drunk by turns according to the patient's inclination. They may be rendered cordial by the addition of wine in such quantity as tlio patient's strength seems to require. When he is very low he may drink negus, with only one- half water, and sharpened with the juice of bitter orange or lemon. In some cases a glass of wine may now and then be allowed. The most proper wine is Rhenish; but if the body be open, red port or claret is to be preferred. When the body is bound a tea-spoonful of the cream of tartar may be put into a cup of the patient's drink as there is occasion ; or he may drink a decoction of tamarinds, which will both quench his thirst and promote a discharge by stool. If camomile tea will sit upon his stomach it is a very proper drink in this disease. It may be sharpened by adding to every cup of tea 10 or 15 drops of the elixir of vitriol. The food must be light, as panada or groat gruel, to which a little wine may be added if the patient be weak and low; and they ought all to be sharpened with the juice of orange, the jelly of currants, or the like. The patient ought likewise to eat freely of ripe fruits, as roasted apples, currant or gooseberry tarts, preserved cherries or plums, &c. Taking a little food or drink frequently not only supports the spirits, but counteracts the putrid tendency of the humours, for which reason the patient ought frequently to be sipping small quantities of some of the acid liquors mentioned above, or any that may be