11A R HAB [ 24 ] to four hours baking according to its size; press it down, and leave it in the mould. When to be used heat it, turn it upon the dish, and take the lard off carefully. Garnish it with red currant jelly, or cover it with an aspic of red ox-heel jelly seasoned with port wine and sugar. All kinds of poultry, game, venison, and fish cakes are made as above. HAKE CAKE IN JELLY. Bone a hare, take all the sinews from the meat, and then pound it with an equal quantity of beef; add mushrooms, shallots (garlic if you please), sweet herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, pickled cucumber, bacon cut into dice, and two or three eggs. Mix all these together. Line a mould with thin slices of bacon, put in the hare, &.C., cover it with bacon, and bake it in a moderate oven. When cold turn it out, place it on a dish, and pour over it a jelly made as follows ;—Take 1^ lb. of scrag of veal, a slice of ham, two or three cloves, sweet herbs, a carrot or two, shallots, two bay leaves, and 1 oz. of isinglass ; stew these in some beef broth till reduced to a jelly, and add some lemon juice, strained first through a sieve, and then through a jelly bag. When cold pour it over the cake, and serve. HARE AU CHEVREUIL. Take a fine hare, skin it, and cut off the head and shoulders ; beat it flat, and carefully cut the skin from the back and most prominent parts of the rump, which places lard with small pieces of fat bacon previously soaked in vinegar and water, with carrots, onions, parsley, bay leaves, garlic, whole pepper, and salt. Let the hare remain in this for two days, then spit it, and baste it well while roasting. When done place it on a dish, and set it in the oven while you glaze the larded parts. Reduce two spoonsful of tarragon vinegar, and five or six spoonsful of plain sauce, and when it boils mix in a little glaze, a piece of butter, and the juice of half a lemon ; pour this sauce round the hare, and serve it. HARE EN CIVET. Make a roux, in which put rather more butter than usual. When about three parts done put in some pieces of streaked bacon, give them a few turns, and then add the hare cut in pieces. When they have been in a little while pour on them a bottle of white or red wine, or a glass of vinegar, some stock or water, a small quantity only of salt, as the bacon ought to impart a little saltness, pepper, two bay leaves, parsley, scallions, and mush- rooms. Take care that the meat floats in the liquor, and set it over a large fire, that it may reduce quickly to three quarters of its original quantity. Have ready some small onions, peeled and lightly fried in a little butter, and put them into the civet when nearly done. In about twenty or twenty-five minutes take it off, and keep it warm in hot ashes till it is wanted for table. HARE, COLLARED. Bone a hare, wine it well, and sprinkle it with port or white wine, and a little gai'lic vinegar. Make a farce of the liver and lights with bacon, and spread it upon the hare; roll it up, with the head look- ing back, which must not be boned ; cover the bottom of a stewpan with bacon, put in a little fine ale or as much stock, bruise the bones, and add carrots, turnips, onions, parsley, sweet herbs, and spices ; simmer slowly for two houi's, reduce part of the braise to glaze, and to make the sauce add the blood. HARE EN DAUBE. Put a boned hare into a braising-pan, with salt, pepper, carrots, onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, equal quantities of broth and white wine, the bones of the hare, half a knuckle of veal, and thin slices of bacon, having lined the pan previously with the same. Braise it over a small fire for an hour and a half; then take it out, and strain the liquor; reduce, and serve it over the hare. This dish may also be served cold with jelly. HARE, FILLETS OF (with Anchovies"). Cut the fillets from one or two hares, and lard them with anchovies soaked in water and in slips for the purpose ; simmer the fillets between two dishes for about half an hour, with butter, pepper, and half a dozen shallots. When done place them on a dish, but keep them hot; put to the shallots a little cuUis, a table-spoonful of verjuice, and a piece of butter rolled in flour; keep this on the fire till tolerably thick, pour the sauce over the fillets, and serve them. HARE, FILLETS OF (Larded). When the hare is skinned run the knife along the back- bone from the shoulder to the leg, and remove the fillets; lai'd them with bacon, and form them according to your taste. Put some slices of bacon into a saucepan, also some slices of onions and carrots, and a little thyme and bay leaf; lay the fillets on this, add a little consomme, and stew them about three quarters of an hour. Having covered them with buttered paper, close the stewpan, and put fire on the lid. When done glaze them. Serve them on cucumbers d la creme, a poivrade, or anything else you choose. HARE, FILLETS OP (Sautks). Take ten fillets of hare, cut them into slices, flatten them with a knife, trim them to as round a shape as you can, and as each piece is done put it into a tossing-pan; season them with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; add a little melted butter, and put your pan over a fierce fire, moving it about to prevent the pieces from sticking. As soon as one side is done turn and do the other, then put them in a dish, take out the butter, but not the gravy, from the pan, and put to it a glass of white wine and four ladlesful of Espagnole; reduce them - to half, and then