[ 499 ] TRO TEI TRIFLE (2). Sweeten three pints of cream, add to it ^ lb. of sherry wine, grate in the rind of a lemon, squeeze in the juice, and grate half a nutmeg ; whisk this up; lay the froth on a large sieve, and the sieve on a dish that has ratafia calces, macaroons, blanched almonds pounded, candied orange-peel cut into small pieces, some currant jelly, and raspberry jam, that the liquor may run upon them. When they are soaked lay them in the dish j'ou intend to serve in, put on the froth (well drained) as high as possible, strew over nonpareils, and stick on little slices of citron, orange, or lemon-peel. TRIFLE (3). Put i lb. of macaroons into a dish, pour over them some white wine, and a pint of custard over that: make a whip, and put on it. Garnish according to your fancy. TRIFLE BISCUIT. Soak sponge biscuits in sherbet till they will absorb no more, lay them in a dish, and pour round them the custard, or cream, sugar, and lemon juice well whisked. Just before the trifle is served sprinkle over it some nonpareils or comfits, or stick a few blanched almonds into it. Macaroons or rata- fias may be used instead of biscuits. TRIFLE CAKE. Cut out a rice or diet- bread cake about two inches from the edge, fill it with a rich custard, with a few blanched and split almonds, and pieces of raspberry jam, and put on the whole a high whip. TRIPE : To Boil. Cut the tripe in pieces ahout four inches square, then peel as many onions as will be necessary, and boil the whole together in water and milk, with a little salt. When tender take up the tripe and onions, and serve them in a tui-een. The more the onions are boiled the milder they will prove. TRIPE : To Fry in Batter. Having cut the tripe in pieces as before, dip them in light brown batter, and fry them in boiling lard till lightly browned. Or, rub the tripe with yolks of eggs, strew over it bread crumbs, with chopped parsley, and then fry it. Serve with fried onions. TRIPE, BREADED. Cut your tripe into small square pieces, and give them a few turns in some butter, with parsley, salt, and pepper ; roll each bit in grated bread, and broil them slowly. When done serve them with slices of lemon. TRIPE FRICASSEE. Cut the tripe into small pieces, and put them into a small stewpan, with as much white wine as will cover them, white pepper, shred ginger, a blade of mace, some sweet herbs, and an onion; stew the whole for a quarter of an hour ; then take out the herbs and onions, and put in a little parsley, lemon juice, half an anchovy cut small, a glass of cream, and either the yolk of an egg or a piece of butter. Garnish the dish with lemon. TRIPE, IRISH. Cut a piece of double tripe into square pieces ; peel and wash ten large onions, cut each in two, boil them in a little water till tender, and then put in the tripe. When it has boiled ten minutes pour off all the liquor, shake a little flour into it, add some butter, mustard, and salt, and shake the whole over the fire till the butter is melted ; then dish and serve as hot as possible, garnished with sliced lemon or barberries. TRIPE, SOUSED. Half boil the tripe, put it into boiling water, which must he fre- quently changed, and when you dress it dip it into a batter made of flour and eggs, and fry it brown. TRIPE, STEWED. Cut 1 lb. of tripe into pieces, and put them into a small saucepan, with half a pint of milk, 3 ozs. of rice, a little allspice, celery pounded, and a little celery seed tied in a bit of muslin; let the whole stew gently for four hours, and serve. TRIPOLI. See Rotten-stone. TROUT. This fish is held in great estima- tion as a fresh-water fish, and when good is of a flesh colour, and the spots upon it are very bright. The female is considered the best, and is known by the head being smaller, and the body being deeper than that of the male. It is most in season during the month of June. TROUT : To Choose. The colour of the fish as well as its flavour varies exceedingly in different waters. The body is long, the head is short and roundish, the tail broad, and the mouth large. It seldom exceeds 4 lbs. in weight, and in general is much less. The flesh is extremely fine. There is a species called the white trout, the flesh of which, when dressed, becomes pei-fectly red, and it is more valued for its delicacy of flavour than the former. TROUT, BOILED. Boil them with some vinegar in water, salt, and a bit of horseradish, and serve with white sauce or plain melted butter. TROUT, COLLARED. They are done in the same manner as eels are collared. TROUT, FRIED. After they are well scaled, gutted, and washed, dry them, rub them with yolk of egg, flour or strew fine crumbs of bread over, and fry them of a fine colour. Serve with crisp parsley and plain melted butter, or anchovy sauce. TROUT, MARINATED. Fry some trout in a sufficient quantity of oil to cover them, putting them in when the oil is boiling ; as soon as they are crisp take them out, and lay them to drain till they are cold ; then make a marinade of equal quantities of white wine and vinegar, with some salt, whole pepper, nutmeg, sliced ginger.