VIN [ 512 ] quantities for domestic purposes from materials of various kinds, with the addition of sugar: raisins, currants, and ripe gooseberries, how- ever, are the principal. Sometimes it is made from brown sugar and water alone. The pro- portions are the same as those necessary for strong wine. Make the barrel about three- fourths full, add a toast covered with yeast, put in the bung very loosely, and place the barrel where it will be exposed to the sim, or, if it be winter, near the fire. The fermentation should be moderate and constant till the vinegar is complete; then draw it off clear, give it a boil, and when quite cold strain and bottle it. Vinegar is obtained from wine by mixing with the latter its own flowers, or ferment, and its tartar reduced to powder, and put into a vinegar or any other cask: if the latter, it must be placed in a warm situation, full of the steam IVom vinegar; in either case the liquor should be stirred frequently. The second fermentation \vll speedily commence ; it will become heated, and turn acid by degrees, and in a short time the vinegar will be produced. It is commonly supposed that wine which has become acid will produce excellent vinegar. This, however, is a mistaken idea, for the stronger and better the quality of the wine, the stronger and better will be the vinegar. The French have several methods of making vinegar, which ai-e subjoined. The vinegar makers of Orleans pour the wine of which they intend to make their vinegar into casks, at the bottom of which are close grating, of lime twigs: these serve to clarify the wines as the lees adhering to the twigs leave the liquor perfectly clear. They then procure a number of casks, each containing a hundred gallons, either new or which have previously contained \inegar; they are set upright, and on the top of every one is bored a hole two inches in diameter: these are kept constantly open. The last-mentioned casks are called " mothers." Pour into all of them twenty-five gallons of boiling vinegar; to this, in a week's time, add three gallons of wine drawn from the first-men- tioned casks ; continue to add the wine, at in- tervals of a week, until the mothers are quite full; then leave them for a fortnight, at the end of which period they generally draw off the vinegar, taking care always to leave the mothers half full at least, and then to fill them with wine as before. The method of proving when the vinegar is fit for use is by plunging a stave into it: if, on taking it out, a white line is percep- tible on the end of it, the vinegar is quite ready. The place where the casks are kept should be very airy, and in the winter time, by means of a stove, the temperature should be raised to 18" of Reaumur. Paris vinegar varies from the above, and tlio process is very simple. A large quantity of wine lees is put into coarse sacks, and laid in tubs, which are placed one upon another to form a kind of press : by means of a screw every drop of wine is gradually squeezed from the lees. This operation cannot be performed in less time than a week. The wine thus extracted is put into casks, and holes are made in the headings, which holes are constantly left open. In summer time tbe casks so filled are placed in the sun, and generally speaking the vinegar is fit for use in a fortnight. In winter the fer- mentation will last double the time, and must be assisted by artificial warmth. It sometimes happens that the liquor heats to so great a degree that no hand can be borne on it: in this case the progress of the fermentation must be checked by adding moi'e wine until it proceeds more regularly. "When the vinegar is made put it into casks, which have the lime twigs at the bottom as above mentioned, and let it remain a fortnight, by which time it will be sufficiently fermented to draw into the casks for keeping it. Another very simple method is also prac- tised in France. A few quarts are drawn from an excellent barrel of vinegar, and mixed with an equal quantity of very clear white wiue. A barrel of good vinegar will thus afford a con- stant supplj' for a length of time without leaving the slightest deposit. A cask which has not contained vinegar before should have a quart of boiling hot vinegar poured into it, shaken till it is cold, and allov.ed to stand for some houi's. VINEGAR IN BALLS. Gather bramble berries when half ripe, dry them, and then beat them to a powder; make it up into balls with strong white vinegar about the size of nuts, dry them thoroughly, and keep them in boxes. When wanted take some wine or a little stale beer, dissolve a ball in it, and then make use of it. VINEGAR, CAMP. See Camp Vinegaji. VINEGAR, COMMON. Vinegar, as pre- pared in this country from malt, should be of a pale brown colour, perfectly transparent, of a pleasant, somewhat pungent, acid taste, and a fragrant smell, without any acrimony. From the impurities, however, wliich malt vinegar always contains, it is apt, particularly when exposed to the air, to become I'opy and vajiid. This inconvenience may be obviated by keeping it in bottles completely filled and well corked, and it would be still more advantageous if the bottles, previously to being stopped, were put in a vessel of water over the fire, and suffered to re- main there till the vinegar is brought to a boiling state. Vinegar is too generally adulterated with sulphuric acid to heighten its pungency. The