LAU LAU .[ 137 ] horses, are kept clean and dry, and ready for use; also that the washing and rinsing tubs are kept clean, the boiling coppers clean and free from verdigris, the irons of different sorts all clean and free from rust, the ironing board and the ironing blanket clean, and in a fit state for use; and that all iron utensils, and anything that can produce iron moulds or other stains, be carefully kept away from the wash-house and laundry. Soap, when very, new, is much heavier than when it is old, and heavier in damp than in dry weather, from the quantity of moisture which it absorbs. It is, therefore, an advantage to buy soap in dry, warm weather; and, for the sake of further economy, it should be kept some months before it is used. When brought home it should be cut with a piece of clean fine wire or twine into pieces of a convenient size for use. For the first fortnight or three weeks it should not be exposed to the air, as, if it be allowed to dry quickly, it will crack and break when wetted. After a time it should be placed on a shelf, with a small space between the pieces, and suffered to dry gradually. By adopting this method a full third of the quan- tity will be saved in the consumption. The soap to be preferred for washing is the best yellow, and having but a small quantity of alkali in its composition, it is less injurious to the hands than most other soaps. Soft soap, being exceedingly strong, is desirable for some pur- poses. For fine and delicate textures, such as lace, &c., the white or curd soap is preferred. Soda (Scotch soda is best), by softening the water, saves a great deal of soap. It should be dissolved in a large jug of water. The solution should be poured into tubs and boilers, and when the latter becomes weak more should be added. Starch varies in price according to the price of flour. The best starch will keep good in a dry, warm room for years. As clothes baskets for receiving the linen, &c., in different stages of operation, must be kept scrupulously clean, they should be occasionally washed with warm water and soap, and a scrub- bing-brush, to remove such dust and dirt as may have lodged in the interstices, after which they should be well rinsed with cold water, and hung up to dry in the open air. They should be kept in a dry room, and before using be wiped with a damp cloth. Clothes lines should never be allowed to re- main abroad when out of use. When done with they should be carefully wiped, and if wet hung up in the open air to dry, after which they should be put away in a bag. Before they are used again they should also be wiped, to prevent them from soiling or marking the linen. For the same reason clothes props and clothes horses should be wiped before and after using, and also clothes pegs. The pegs should be kept in a dry room, and preserved from the dust in a s trong linen bag. Pins should be used as sparingly and as care- fully as possible for securing fine articles, such as muslins, &c., on the lines, because vvhen the ■wind is high they are very liable to be torn. For the sake of economy in fuel, and also for the avoidance of smoke and blacks, cinders or coke should be burnt in-the copper furnaces.— {Finchley Manual.) In preparing the linen for the wash the laundry-maid must first collect all the sheets, towels, pillow-cases, and toilet cloths from the bags in the bedrooms ; all the gowns, petticoats, chemises, handkerchiefs, caps, shirts, collars, cravats, waistcoats, light trousers, and stock- ings, all the tablecloths, dinner napkins, coarse cloths, and towels from the kitchen, and throw them on the floor of the room used for the purpose. Then sort them into heaps, such as bedroom towels in one heap, coarse towels in another, sheets, shirts, gowns, waistcoats, each in a separate heap. The stockings draw one into the other, to keep them in pairs; exa- mine each article separately, to ascertain what may require mending ; and the most economical way is to have such things as may require mending, excepting stockings, mended before they are washed, that they may not receive further injury in the washing. But some ladies prefer having them tied up by themselves, washed, rough-dried, mended afterwards, and then finished by folding and ironing, or man- gling. If sent to the laundress, having sorted all the things properly, make out a list of them, naming the articles, and the number of them in each; as, three tablecloths, five napkins, two gowns, seven shirts, and so on. Soft water is best for washing, and should be exposed for a few days to the sun, and allowed to settle. Hard water may be softened by lay- ing chalk in the bottom of the wells or ponds ; and if boiled, the day before it be used, with some finely sifted wood ashes and pearl ashes, according to the quantity of water, it will ansv/er extremely well the purposes of washing. Some persons at a great wash tie pearl.ashes in a cloth, and let them lie in the water they are to use for washing, and when they boil the clothes hang the bag with the ashes in the copper. This they do with common water, in which they also sometimes boil wood ashes. It is usual for some servants to soap their clothes well overnight, then put them into the copper, and early next morning heat the water, after which they take out the clothes, and so go to washing ; but this is a bad method, for, instead