POI [ 344 ] ' . POI Substances. Symptoms. Hemedies. COXCENTKATED Acids : the vitri- olic or sulphuric, nitric, muiiatie, oxalic, &c. A.LKALTES : pot- ish, soda, ammo- uia, lime, &c. Mercurial Pre- parations : corro- sive sublimate, &c. Arsenical Pre- parations : white arsenic, &c. Preparations of Copper : brass, ver- digris, halfpence,&c Preparations of Antimony : emetic tartar, &c. Nitre, or Salt- petre. Phosphorus. Lead : sugar of lead, Goulard's ex- tract, &c. Barttes: the carbonate, muriate, &c. Prussic Acid. Sal Ammoniac. Glass, or Ena- iJEL. Alcohol: bran- dy, rum, gin, wine. Burning pain, vomiting, matter thrown up effer- vescing with chalk, salt of tartar, lime, or magnesia. Nearly the same: the ejected matter does not effervesce with alkalies, but with acids. Sense of constriction in the throat; matter vomited sometimes mixed with blood. Extreme irritation; pain, sickness, and speedy death if the poison be not soon counteracted. Symptoms nearly the same as from mercury. Extreme sickness, with other symptoms of poison, as above stated. Obstinate vomiting, some- times of blood, &c. Like mineral acids, Great pain in the sto- mach, with constriction of the throat, &e. Vomiting, convulsions, palsy, pain in the stomach, &c. The most virulent of poi- sons, producing almost in- stant death when applied even in small quantities to the surface of the body. Excessive vomitings, con- vulsions, pain in the bowels, alteration of the features, death. If taken in coarse powder it produces irritation and in- flammation of the bowels. ' Intoxication; when taken in large quantities, insensibi- lity, apoplexy, or paralysis; countenance swollen, and of a dark red colour; breathing difficult; often death. Calcined magnesia, 1 oz. to a pint of warm or cold water. A glassful to be taken every two minutes, so as to excite vomiting. Soap or chalk and water ; mucilaginous drinks after- wards, such as linseed tea or gum arable and water. Vinegar or lemon juice, a spoonful or two in a glass of water very frequently. Simply warm water. White of eggs ; twelve or fifteen eggs beaten up, and mixed with a quart of cold water. A glassful every three minutes. Milk, gum water, linseed tea. Warm water with sugar, in large quan- tities, to excite vomiting. Lime water, soap and water, pearlash and water, mucilaginous drinks. White of eggs ; mucilaginous drinks. See Mercurial Preparations, above. Warm water, or sugar and water; afterwards 1 grain of opium, or 15 drops of laudanum, every quarter of an hour for two or three times. The same afs for arsenic, with the exception of lime water and alkalies- Like mineral acids. Large doses of Glauber's or Epsom salts in warm water. Half an ounce of Epsom or Glauber's salts dissolved in a quart of water. Several glasses to be taken. In place of these salts large draughts of hard well water. Emetics: afterwards oil of turpentine, ammonia, brandy, with warmth, friction, and blisters. Vomiting, to be rendered easy by large draughts of warm sugar and water. If vomit- ing be not produced by the poison it must ba excited by the finger. Afterwards opiates. Large quantities of crumb of bread should be eaten. Afterwards an emetic of whit© vitriol and demulcent drinks. A powerful emetic of white vitriol or emetio tartar; vomiting to be encouraged by warm water and large clysters of salt and water; bleeding. If the head be very hot, cold wet cloths may be applied. If the extremities be cold, friction.