ox GXP [ 285 ] some morels, forcemeat balls, and lemon juice. Garnisb with sliced lemon. OX PALATES, TIMBALE OF. Having blanched the palates as usual, cut them into lozenges. Have a timbale ready, at the bottom of which put a layer of godiveau or other farce, and on that one of truffles cut in thin slices, and proceed in this manner till the timbale is quite full ; cover the whole with raspings, pour a little beef gravy or rich broth into it, and bake it to a nice colour. OX TAIL BRAISED EN HOCHEPOT. Cut an ox tail in pieces at the joints, soak it for two hours, then scald it for half an hour, put it in cold water, drain it, and trim it. Lay slices of bacon and pieces of veal or beef in a stewpan, put in the tail, cover it with bacon, add three or four carrots, four or five onions (one stuck with three cloves), a little thyme, two bay leaves, and some stock; set the pan on a brisk fire to boil, after which lessen it, and let it stew gently for two hours. When done lay the ox tail in a dish, pour over some carrots cut in pieces, and done up in a little veloute, and garnish the edge of the dish with lettuces braised and glazed. Ox tails, when braised as above, may be served with various articles in- stead of the lettuces, according to taste. OX TAIL WITH CABBAGES. Scald and boil an ox tail, cut it into pieces, and put it in some broth, with a bunch of parsley, shallots, a bay leaf, and three cloves. In one hour's time add a savoy (previously scalded), 1 lb. of pickled pork cut in pieces, salt, and pepper. When done take it out, drain off all the fat, and put the whole into a tureen, to- gether with cullis or broth, to make it more or less liquid according to your pleasure. OX-TAIL SOUP. 'Lay the tails in lime water for some hours, or a night; wash them well, and cut them at the joints. If the bones are sawed across, so as not to separate them, they will give nearly double the strength : this ought to be done with all lai"ge bones. Cover the bottom of the stewpan with bacon, and lay them over it. If palates, skirts, or any other meats are to be stewed, they may all be done together, with a sufficient quantity of turnips, onions stuck with cloves, and sweet herbs, seasoned with Jamaica and common pepper, but not too high, with a quart of browned water to every pound of meat. Have ready nicely turned carrots and turnips, onions, and fried bread, or vegetable balls; strain the soup, return it into the saucepan, and put in the vegetables. OX TAILS, STEWED. Divide them into joints, wash them, parboil them, set them on tlie fire to stew in just water enough to cover them, and dress them in the same manner as we have directed in Gip.lets, Stewed, for which they are an excellent substitute. OXALIC ACID. Numerous deaths haV) occurred from the administration of this sub- stance. It was generally taken in an accidenta! manner, having been mistaken for the sulphate of magnesia (Epsom salt), which it resembles in external character. The facility of the occurrence of these accidents is increased from the circum- stance that it is frequently applied to several domestic purposes, such as the cleaning of leather and the removal of iron-mould and ink spots. There are not, however, wanting instances in which this substance has been wil- fully taken to destroy life. The earliest symptom is burning pain in the stomach, and this occurs early if the dose be large ; but, if it be small, some hours may elapse. Excessive vomiting of a dark-coloured or sail- guinolent fluid soon follows, and commonly con- tinues until near death. There are, however, exceptions to this. Some have not vomited at all; and Dr. Cliristison observes that this is most apt to happen when the poison has been taken much diluted. When life is prolonged for a few hours, pain in the bowels and purging follow, and the feces are mixed with blood. Along with these there is a sunken counte- nance, and the pulse is almost imperceptible at the wrist, indicating the nearness of death. Antidotes. Death is generally so sudden in these cases that but little can be done. Emetics, however, should be immediately given, but not to be aided in the usual way with warm diluents, since dilution accelerates the operation of the poison We owe to Dr. Thompson the recommendation of the use of a mixture of chalk and water, to be given as soon as possible. Oxalate of lime ■will thus be formed in the stomach. Magnesia is advisable, and the solution of the bicarbonate, invented by Dr. Murray, of Belfast, is particu- larly commended, as it precipitates the acid itself and all its soluble combinations. Both of these substances (chalk and magnesia) have been given with striking advantage. The alkalies should not be given, as Christison and Coindet found death to follow in animals from the exhibition of the oxalates of potash and ammonia in a few minutes. " They do not corrode ; they hardly irritate, but they produce tetanus and coma, like the diluted acid." Should the patient be so fortunate as to recover from the immediate effects, the proper means for removing gastric irritation are needed. Stimulants may subsequently be necessary. OXFORD JOHN. Cut a stale leg of mutton into as thin coUops as you can, cut out all the fat and sinews, and season them with