TUR TUN [ 503 ] lathing, -when prescribed simultaneously vi'iih. cod-liver oil, in the majority of scrofulous affec- tions." TUNBRIDGE CAKES. Two quarts of fine flour, i lb. of butter, ^ lb. of sugar, three yolks of eggs, 1 oz. of cai'away seeds, and a sufBcient quantity of new milk and yeast made warm. Make these ingredients into a stiff paste, let it rise, and form it into cakes. TUNNY. This salt-water fish is very seldom seen in England. When fresh it is stewed with butter, and parsley and scallions shred ; it is then breaded and browned with a salamander. It may also be boiled like fresh salmon. The tunny, however, is most commonly pickled, and served cold in a salad. TURBITH MINERAL. {See Mercury.) Turbith mineral is a powerful emetic, and has been given with frequent success in doses of from 1^ to 6 or 8 grains to robust persons who were afflicted with leprous diseases, and glandular obstructions that had resisted the power of other medicines. It has also been recom- mended, in doses amounting from 6 grains to 1 scruple every day, in cases of hydrophobia; and some instances have occurred in which it not only prevented madness in dogs that had been bitten, but also effected a cure after the disease had actually taken place. Lastly, the water in which this mineral is washed has been used externally for lotions in the itch and other cutaneous affections; but such pi'actice ought never to be adopted without proper advice, as it may be attended with danger. tURBOT : To Bake. Wash your fish in several waters, dry it, and soak it in melted but- ter, with sweet herbs, parsley, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; in half an hour put the whole into a baking dish, envelope it in bread crumbs, and bake it. TURBOT . To BoTL. If the turbot is thick according to the size, cut away from two to four inches of the back fin, and slit it into the bone. Be careful not to slit the belly, as it is the fattest part of the fish, and would destroy the flavour by letting out the finest part of the juice. Besides, it does not require cooking as the thick part does, and it would be better for being farced, to prevent its cooking too much. Bind up the head with a needle, lay it on a very flat thin drainer, and cover it entirely with what it is to be cooked in—water, milk and water, wine and water, stock, court bouillon, or braise. To make it very white it may be rubbed with lemon, or a little alum dissolved in water. When the weather is cool let it come very slowly to the boil, skim, and set it to simmer, but in hot weather it must come to the boil quicker, to prevent its souring, which sometimes happens by being long in an equal low heat. The safest way of using lemon is, after the fish is coolted and set over the water, rub it, and lay thin slices over it to serve ; plunge it again into the water, wipe it with a sponge, and dvy the drainer well with a cloth, so that the puffed napkin into which it is to be dished may not be soiled. Garnish with crayfish, horseradish, and beet-root, or nasturtium flowers and parsley intermixed with finely cut lemon-peel, or lemon in slices, &c. These may be dressed in a wreath, patches, or fancifully strewn over the whole, as an intimation to the carver that the skin is broken, not to expose it, as nothing in fish-dressing looks worse. Farced eels, fried oysters in butter, small fish patties, balls, and eggs, may all be used for garnishing fish. The sauces in general use are lobster, oyster, and anchovy. These ought to be made of the finest cream or gravy and butter. TURBOT, BREADED. Prepare a small turbot as \isual, slit it across the back, and soak it in melted butter or lemon juice, with parsley, sweet herbs, salt, and pepper ; cover the fish with bread crumbs, and boil it. When done squeeze the lemon or Seville orange juice over it, and serve. TURBOT A LA CREME. Put into a saucepan ^ lb. of butter, a dessert-spoonful of flour, salt, pepper, and a glass of milk, or more if necessary; set it on the fire, and keep stir- ring till sufficiently smooth and of the right con- sistence. Take a ready-dressed turbot, cut it into pieces, and put them into another sauce- pan ; pour the sauce over them, make the whole quite hot, and then serve. TURBOT, FILLETS OF. Cut the fillets from a turbot dressed in coui-t bouillon; dis- solve some butter with an anchovy, shred parsley, sweet herbs, salt, nutmeg, and pepper; add a glass of cream, put in the fillets, stir them gently over the fire till the sauce is thick and smooth, and then serve. TURBOT GLACfi. Take off the scales, tail, and fins of the turbot, and lard it wiih bacon ; put it into a stewpan, with a pint or more of wine, two slices of lemon, five or six onions sliced, pepper, and salt ; set it on a moderate fire, and when about two-thirds done take it off, and leave the fish to cool. In the meantime boil a knuckle of veal in some stock, with half a glass of white wine ; reduce it to a jelly, let it stand till a fine clear colour, and whilst hot pour it on a dish over the turbot; spread it equally over the whole, and serve. TURBOT AU GRATIN. Take some pieces of ready-dressed turbot, remove the skin and bones, and put the pieces into a saucepan, with some bechamel maigre; set it on the fire, make it quite hot without letting it boil, spread it all over a dish, and make it quite smooth with tho