PREFACE. It is a subject for surprise at this time, when the public attention is so strongly directed to what is useful, that, previously to this publication, there was no comprehensive work of easy reference which the head of a family could turn to with a certainty of finding the directions for what was required, or for remedying what was amiss in the household economy. To supply this deficiency is the object of the present Work; and in it will be found gathered together, from the best practised authorities, as well as from those well acquainted with science, reliable information upon all domestic requirements, whether it be for cooking a potato, binding up a cut finger, baking a loaf, giving medicine to the sick, brewing a barrel of beer, curing a smoking chimney, mending a broken glass, removing an ink-stain, cutting out a shirt, managing servants, or providing for parties. If we do not teach how to earn, we do that which is equally important—we show how to save. Not a class in all British society but will find in our pages suggestions available either for the management of their establishments, the preparation of their food, or the cure of their bodily derangements. We believe that we have accumulated, for ready reference, knowledge that may be acceptable to the daughters and wives of England—those without whose aid man may labour, but not thrive—may have a house, but not a home; for, where such helpmates are not, the quiet untiring pleasures of one's own fireside—the real meaning of " British comfort"—are never known. We think that our pages will aid to remind those help- mates of what may be done for the best beneath their roof-tree, both in health and in sickness—both for ornament and for use; and though, generally, they may be too well skilled in housewifery for us to impart to them great as well as good suggestions, yet we shall not be unrewarded if we are useful in many trifles : for he has not had much ex- perience of life who has not learned that small savings, small comforts,' and small pleasures, make up the fulness and the overflowing of a successful and happy existence. In short, the title of the Work is its best index. It is A Household Encyclopaedia, alphabetically arranged; so that under each name, whether it be a cabbage or a carpet, under that name will be found all that the householder is likely to need for its in-door management. The information given may be relied upon without hesitation, because the Editors plfedge themselves that the recipes have all been proved; and the explanations, where explanations are needed, are from men of science, whose attention has been long directed to such subjects.