PIE [ 322 ] PIC and, if it be rubbed in with a heavy hand, it will be ready much sooner than if only lightly rubbed. N.B.—Dry the salt, and rub it with the sugar in a mortar. Pork requires a longer time to cure, in pro- portion to its weight, than beef. A leg of pork should be in salt eight or ten days. Turn and rub it every day. Salt meat should be well washed before it is boiled, especially if it has been in salt long, that the liquor in which the meat is boiled may not be too salt to make soup of. If it has been in salt a long time, and you fear that it will be too salt, wash it well in cold water, and soak it in lukewamn water for two hours. If it is very salt lay it in water the night before you intend to dress it. PICKLES. Pickles ought to be stored in a dry place, and the vessels most approved of for keeping them in are wide-mouthed glass bottles, or strong stoneware jars, having corks or bungs, which must be fitted in with linen, and covered with bladder or leather; and, for taking the pickles out and returning them to the jar, a small wooden spoon is kept. The strongest vinegar is used for pickling, that of cyder being more particularly recommended; but sugar vinegar will be generally found sufficiently sti'ong. It is essential to the excellence and beauty of pickles that they be always completely covered with vinegar. PICKLES FOR TONGUES. To four gallons and a half of water add 2^ lbs. of treacle, 8 lbs. of salt, and 2 ozs. of saltpetre ; boil it, and skim it until clear; sprinkle salt over the tongue, let it stand two days, and wipe it clean before you put it into the pickle, which must be quite cold; boil the pickle every two or three months, adding two or three handsful of salt, and skimming it well. Half the quantity is sufficient for two tongues. PICTURES. Unless pictures are really good they should never be admitted ; for the most exquisitely furnished apartments are dis- figured at once by vulgar, ill-painted portraits or unnatural landscapes glaring from the walls. Good pictures are so grateful to the eye, that it is quite distressing to see bad ones hung round a room; and although there is no disgrace in deficiency of taste, yet it need not be made conspicuous, or a subject of ridicule to others. So few people are really judges of paintings, that it is very rare indeed to meet with excel- lence ; but sometimes the specimens we see are of such a kind as to make us grieve for the total want of perception in the possessors. The effect of a neatly furnished sitting-room is injured by such a mistaken attempt at decora- tion, and all who are really fond of pictures are disconcerted. A few good pictures in a room embellish it greatly—the eye seldom wearies of gazing : even one single picture, if of merit, is a perpetual source of mental pleasure, and may almost be called a companion. A taste for pictures, how- ever, should be severely controlled ; it is one of great and dangerous expense; and, beautiful as they are, it always seems blamable to suspend, so many guineas upon our walls, which might be doing so much more good than simply pleasing our senses. The price of pictures is never returned to us. We buy them for our pleasure, but their sale again is influenced by so many circumstances that the half of what we gave for them is often more than we receive. If they are ours by gift or bequest we may more satisfactorily enjoy them; but their pur- chase is such a sinking fund, and the possessiorx so great a luxury, that we ought to act with the utmost caution, and consider our means most strictly in this branch of " home " concerns. Paintings and engi-avings should never occupy the same room, nor should frames of different sorts be mingled ; and pictures should be placed on the walls wdth as much attention to order as their size and shape will pei'mit. These ap- parently trifling considerations are frequently disregarded, and the appearance of a room, and even that of the pictures themselves, is injured by the jumbling together of black frames with oak and gilded ones, just as they hapjDen to come to hand. A very little management might prevent this, and the improved effect would be obvious. PIE, RAISED (to be Served Cold). Bone some chickens, partridges, or pheasants, the number according to the size you intend to make your pie ; be particularly careful that no particle of bone remains, and that you do not break the skin; when the whole is boned, with pepper and salt spiinkled in, fill it well with the forcemeat made of chicken livers {see Forcemeat for Pies), and lay in long slips of lean- ham, truffles, and fat livers; then close your chicken, or whatever it may be, by drawing the skin of the neck over the part that is opened; raise your pie the same as the receipt for Raised Pies (to be Served Hot), only let the crust be much thicker, and secure all the joining parts. When so far done cut some large thin slices of fat bacon, lay them first at the bottom, then all round the sides ; make what you intend to put in as near the shape of the pie as you possibly can by filling up every part, that there may be no cavity under the meat, or it may occasion your pie to fall or lose its shape. When all is put in cover it well over with fat bacon, and lay three bay leaves on the top. For gravy put in some liquor in which the truffles have been stewed, or some good