KEY [ 99 ] KET gallon of liquor add one quart of red wine; mace, cloves, allspice, of each ^ oz., with a race or two of cut ginger. If not salt enough add a little more. Boil it till one quart is wasted, strain it into a pan, and let it get cold. Pour it from the settlings, bottle it, and cork it tightly. KETCHUP, MUSHEOOM (3). Take care that the mushi-ooms are of the right sort, and fresh gathered. Full-grown flaps are the best. Put a layer of these at the bottom of a deep earthen pan, and sprinkle them with salt; then add another layer of mushrooms, with more salt, and so on alternately. Let them remain two or three hours, by which time the salt will have penetrated the mushrooms, and rendered them easy to break; then pound them in a mortar, or mash them well with your hands, and let them remain two days, during which stir them up and mash them well; then pour them into a stone jar, and to every quart put 1 oz. of whole black pepper; stop the jar closely, set it in a stewpanful of boiling water, and keep it boiling two hours. On taking out the jar pour the juice clear from the sediment thi'ough a hair sieve into a clean stewpan, and let it boil gently half an hour; skim it well, and pour it into a clean jar or jug; cover it closely, let it stand in a cool place till the next day, then decant it off as gently as possible through a tamis or thick flannel bag till it is perfectly fine, and add a table-spoonful of good brandy to each pint. Now let it stand again, when a fresh sediment will be deposited, from which the ketchup must be gently poured off into bottles which have been previously washed with brandy or other ardent spirit. Kept closely corked and in a 1 cool place it will remain good a long time. I Examine it, however, occasionally by placing a [; strong light behind the neck of the bottle, and if any skin appears upon it boil it up again with a few peppercorns. This is called double i ketchup, and a table-spoonful of it will impart the fall flavour of mushroom to half a pint ' of sauce. KETCHUP, OYSTER. Beard two hundred oysters, and boil them up in a little of their liquor; drain them, and when quite dry pound them as finely as possible in a mortar. Mean- i while boil up in some spring water the beards of j the oysters, and strain this into the first oyster I liquor; boil the pounded oysters in the mixed i liquors, with some finely beaten mace and long I pepper; add to it while boiling the juice of a lemon and some salt, take it off the fire imme- diately, strain it, and bottle it for use. This ketchup, if well corked, will keep during eight months. KETCHUP, TOMATO. Boil one bushel of tomatoes until they are soft, squeeze them ' through a fine wire sieve, and add half a gallon of vinegar, a pint and a half of salt, 2 ozs. of cloves, Jib. of allspice, 3 ozs. of Cayenne pepper, three table-spoonsful of black pepper, and five heads of garlic skinned and separated. Mix these together, and boil about three houi's, or until reduced one-half, and then bottle without straining. KETCHUP, WALNUT (1). Take a hundred walnuts when a pin may be thrust through them, beat them in a mortar, and pass them through a flaniiel bag ; add to the juice three table-spoonsful of salt, and as much vinegar as will give them a sharpness; boil it in a bell- metal pan, skim it well, add mace, cloves, and nutmegs, of each J oz., and a little whole pepper, aU beaten together. When it is of the colour of claret it is done enough. When cold bottle it, and it will last for years. KETCHUP, WALNUT (2). This being a cheap and very useful ketchup, it ought to be made in great quantities. The best and quickest method is to put the shells into a hair bag, and bruise them in the press ; or the shells may be beaten in a marble mortar, or bruised with a wooden mallet, and either strew them in layers with salt, or mix them mth it with the pestle. Cover them like the mushrooms. To every quart allow sliced ginger, pepper, and allspice, of each 1 oz.; cloves and nutmegs, of each ^ oz., with less or more salt according to taste. KETCHUP, WHITE. Take a quart of white wine, a pint of elder vinegar, one quart of water, half a pint of anchovies with their liquor, ^Ib. of scraped horseradish; shallots bruised, white pepper bruised, and mace, of each 1 oz.; and nutmegs cut in quarters, J oz. Boil the whole together till half is consumed, then strain it off, and when cold bottle it for use. It is proper for any white sauce, or to put into melted butter. KETTLE. See Bain-Maeib, Coppeb Ves- sels, and Fur. KEW MINCE. Cut 1 lb. of meat from a leg of cold roasted mutton, and mince it very finely, together with 6 ozs. of suet; mix with it three or four table-spoonsful of bread crumbs, the beaten yolks of four eggs, one anchovy chopped, some pepper and salt, and half a pint of port wine; put it into a caul of veal, and bake it in a quick oven ; turn it out into a dish, and pour some brown gravy over it. Serve it with venison sauce. When a veal caul is not to be had the mince may be done in a saucepan. KEY. [See Lock.) Never throw away old keys: they may unexpectedly prove very useful. The best material for key labels is white leather, which should be sewed on the keys with their proper title. It is preferable to either parchment or wood. There is a neat con- trivance, or key case, to supersede the usual