[ 279 ] OEA ORA sugar. Pare the oranges very tliin, take off all the white skin, and squeeze them well; then put the juice, the oranges, and the water to- gether, and let them stand in the tuh for twenty- four hours , then strain off the liquor, and put it into a harrel, with the sugar, half the peels, and a quart of the best brandy. Bung it down when it has done hissing. It must stand for twelve months before it is bottled. The water is to be cold, not boiled. ORANGE WINE (2). Take 30 lbs. of new Malaga raisins, pick them clean, and chop them small; then get twenty large Seville oranges, ten of which must be pared as thin as for presei'ving; boil about eight gallons of soft water till a third part be consumed, and after letting it cool a little pour five gallons of it over your raisins and orange-peel, and cover it up. When cold let it stand five days, stirring it twice a day. Run this liquor through a hair sieve, and with a wooden spoon press the pulp as dry as you can ; then put it in a clean cask, adding the rinds of the other ten oranges, pared as thin as the first. The day before you ton it make a syrup of the juice of the whole twenty oranges, with 1 lb. of white sugar; stir them well together, and close the cask up. Let it stand two months to fine, and then bottle it off. It will improve by being kept three years. ORANGE WINE (Vert Fine). Take ten gallons of water, 28 lbs. of lump sugar, sixty Seville oranges, the whites of six eggs, 1 oz. of isinglass, ^ oz. of cochineal, and two quarts of French brandy. Peel the oranges as thin as possible, carefully preserving the peel; divide the oranges, and squeeze out the juice ; put the squeezed pulps into a clean tub or otlier vessel, and pour on them the ten gallons of water. Let them remain in soak one night, then strain off the water, and if you find you have lost any of it in the soaking, make up the quantity by adding more water. Having the sugar ready broken in small pieces, add it to the water, taking care that it be well dis- solved before putting it into the boiler. Take the whites of the eggs, beat them to a froth, and put them into the sweetened liquor ; boil one hour, stirring frequently, and removing the scum as it rises. At the expiration of an hour pour the boiling liquor through a sieve on the peels, and when nearly cool add the strained orange juice and a yeast toast. Leave it twenty-four hours, remove the toast, and let it stand another twenty-four hours. Ton it with the peels, reserving two quarts, in one of which dissolve the cochineal, previously well pounded, and in the other dissolve the isinglass; put them into the barrel when both are cold, well stirring them together. Leave it without bunging for a fort- night, then add the brandy, stir it well, and bung it up closely. ORANGEADE. Squeeze out the juice, pour some boiling water on the peel, and cover it closely. Boil water and sugar to a thin syrup, and skim it. When all are cold mix the juice, the infusion, and the syrup with as much water as will make a rich sherbet, and strain it through a jelly bag. ORANGEADE PIE. Make a thin crust with hot buttered paste, then slice the oranges, and lay them over the bottom. Pare and core some pippins, cut each into eight parts, and lay them over the oranges ; then lay the oranges on the pippins, and over them some syrup of orangeade ; strew sugar over the top, close up the pie, bake it, and then strew some sugar over it. ORANGES: To Preserve'. Rasp or cut the oranges in scallops with a penknife, and throw them into water, which change once a day for three days ; then boil them till they are tender enough to run a wheat straw through them, put them into cold water till the next day, and pulp and wipe them very dry. Have some syrup ready, and boil them two or three times till very clear. Observe to put the syrup to them when cold. Make it the same as for cucumbers. ORANGES : To Preserve in Jelly. Cut a hole about the size of a shilling in the stalk part of the orange, and with a blunt, small knife scrape out the pulp quite clear without cutting the rind; tie each orange separately in muslin, and let them lie for two days in spring water, changing the water twice a day. In the last boil them till tender on a slow fire. Take care that there is enough water at first to allow for wasting, as they must be covered to the last. To each pound of fruit weigh 2 lbs. of double-refined sugar and one pint of water. Boil the two latter together, with the juice of the orange, to a syrup; clarify it, skim it well, and let it stand to get cold; then boil the fruit in the syrup for half an hour, and if not clear repeat this daily until it is done. ORANGES IN BRANDY. Choose the oranges as neai'ly of a size as possible, and boil them till a pin will penetrate the skins with ease. Do not take out the pulp, but make a small hole through the stalk end ; give them a boil in some clarified sugar, and set them aside. The next day drain off the syrup, boil, and pour it on the fruit whilst hot. On the third day repeat this operation, put the oranges into it, and boil them together ; take out the fruit, add as much brandy as syrup, and make it hot, but it must not boil. When cold pour it over the oranges, which ought to float in the liquid. ORANGES, CHINA (Zest ok). Pare off