HOP [ 46 ] fl 0 R tolled far beyond their merit. They undoubtedly possess the advantages of a pleasant bitter, com- bined with a feeble narcotic. Their use as a preservative of beer is well known, and it is equally notorious that various vegetable sub- stances are daily substituted for them, such as quassia and wormwood, both of which are inferior to the MemjanUies trifoliata, or marsh trefoil. The people of Jersey are said to use the wood sage (Teucrium scorodonia); it imparts, however, a very high colour to the beer. The early shoots of hops are sometimes used in the spring as substitutes for asparagus. They are dressed in the same manner, and served with a white sauce or with oil. HOPS, EXTRACT OF. Extract of hops is made by boiling. In this way half the ordinary quantity will be sufficient. HOREHOUND {Marruoium vxilgare). This herb is a popular remedy in chronic pulmonary complaints, especially catarrh, and in uterine and liver affections. Horehound tea is prepared by infusing 1 oz. of the herb in boiling water for an hour ; syrup of horehound by thickening the infusion or tea with sugar ; candied horehound by mixing one pint of liorehound juice with 4 lbs. of white sugar and 6 lbs. of moist sugar, or 10 lbs. of white sugar alone, boiling to a candy height, and pouring it whilst warm into moulds or small paj)er cases well dusted with linely powdered lump sugar; or it is poured out on a dusted slab, and cut into HOREHOUND: To Candy. Boil it in water till the juice is extracted ; then boil some sugar to feather, add thereto the juice of the horehound, and boil it again to the same height. Stir it with a spoon against the sides of the pan till thick, then pour it into a paper case pre- viously dusted with fine sugar, and cut into squares ; or the horehound may be dried, and put into sugar finely powdered and sifted. HOREHOUND, FORD'S BALSAM OF See Balsam of Horehound. HOREHOUND SYRUP. Put a pint of horehound in a quart of water, and let it draw by the fire ; ])ut a tea-cupful of dried elecampane root in a pint of water, cover it closely, and let it boil till all the strength is out; strain it and the horehound together, and put them to boil with 1 lb. of sugar. When it is a rich syrup pour it in a pitcher to cool, and bottle it. Take a table-spoonful at a time when the cough is troublesome. HORNBEAM (Carphms betulus). The horn- beam is a very valuable tree, and grows to a large size. Its leaves afford a grateful food to cattle, but no grasses will flourish under its shade. Its wood is very tough, white, and burns like a candle ; it is much employed by turners ; is veiy useful for various implements of hus- bandry ; and is wrought into cogs for the wheels of mills, presses, &c., which are far superior to those made of yew. The inner bai'k imparts a permanent yellow colour to yai'n. HORNET. See Bee. HORSE-CHESTNUT {JEsculus hippocas- tanum). It is said that in Turkey these nuts are ground and mixed with the provender of their horses, especially of those which are troubled with coughs or are broken-winded. The nuts are well adapted for feeding deer and swine, upon which the latter are found to fatten freely ; but, before they can be rendered ser- viceable for this purpose, they must be steeped for two or three days in water to extract their bitterness. In Switzerland they are crushed as food for sheep, and given in meals of two pounds to each sheep morning and evening. They are said not only to fatten the animals, but to communicate a peculiarly fine flavour to the mutton. The nuts abound in starch, which may be readily obtained in a state of purity, and it is said to excel, as an article of diet, that pro- cured from the potato ; and the bitter principle which they contain may be effectually removed by macerating them in an alkaline solution. The powdered kernel sniffed up the nostrils causes sneezing, and has been used suc- cessfully in diseases of the head and eyes. The bark, taken from branches from three to five years old, has been extensively employed on the continent as a substitute for Peruvian bark. It tias little smell, but is astringent and bitter, though not disagreeable. That which is col- lected in the spring is the best. The fruit aifords a valuable permanent dye for muslin or cotton, varying from buff to nankeen according to its ripeness. When about the size of a goose- berry cut the whole fruit into quarters, steep it in soft water, with just enough soap to tinge it, and when deep enough for use pour olf the clear water. The colour from the whole fruit is not unlike that of annotto. When the fiuit is nearly or quite ripe the husks only broken up and steeped in cold soft water with : tinge of soap, yield a dye which will be more or less bright according to the degree of ripeness of the husk. The tree contains so much potass that it may be used as a substitute for soap The timber of the horse-chestnut is of inferioi quality, and is not used for any other puqjoss than for fuel. HORSERADISH POWDER. The time to make this is during November and December Slice the horseradish to the thickness of a shilling, and lay it to dry gradually in a Dutch oven. A strong heat soon evaporates its flavour When dry enough pound it and bottle it. HORSERADISH SAUCE, COLD. See