VE R [ 539 ] YEN or at least in an opening not exceeding the size of a small quill. By tliis simple contrivance the air in the sick rooms has been so effectually renewed, by the great and constant pressure of atmospheric air from without, that any other artificial process for correcting the putrid air in a large hospital was judged to be unnecessary. Above all things, the windows and doors of sitting and bedrooms, when it can be done conveniently, ought to be left open for a certain space of time every day. This, however, requires to be done at the proper time—neither too early in the morning, nor when it grows dark in the evening, during the vernal and autumnal months, nor at the time when the horizon is overspread with a thick fog. The windows should be openeid when tlie air is pure and serene; or, in general, when there is less danger to be apprehended from the external air than from that within. Sometimes it may be proper to make use of what is called pumping the room, or moving the door backward and forward for some minutes together; but in spring and autumn our sitting-rooms, and even in winter bedrooms ought to be ventilated every clear day by currents of fresh air for a considerable time. In the hot days of summer the windows may be opened early in the morning and in the evening, in order to cool and refresh the heated air of the room by that from without. It is, however, not safe (and has sometimes proved fatal) to leave the windows of a bedroom open at night during the summer months, as there is no small hazard of checking perspiration by the cool night air, the susceptibility of the pores being then very much increased by the heat of the day, and the warmth of the bed Rooms which we inhabit in the daytime may be safely left open during the night. VENUS'S JELLY. Boil i lb. of hartshorn shavings in thi'ee pints of water till it hangs to the spoon like a jelly; strain it hot into a sauce- pan, with half a pint of good white wine and ^ ib. of sifted sugar ; beat up the whites of two or three eggs to a froth, and put it into the jelly ; mix all well together, and pour it from one pan to another; boil it two or three minutes, put in the juice of a large lemon, and boil a little longer. If a deeper colour is wanted a little saSVon or cochineal must be added. Put it into a jelly bag; keep it close by the fire, and return it into the bag till perfectly clear ; then piut fine lemon chips into the basin, and fill the glasses or moulds from it. When the hartshorn is prepared it may be flavoured like any of the preparations for ices. VERDEE. Infuse the rinds of three lemons and four oranges in four quarts of rum or brandy for four-and-twentj hours, closely stopped; then squeeze the juice through a strainer. If the fruit is good there will be half a jjint, and if there is not so much make it that; add 1J lb. of sugar, pour to it three quarts of water, and keep stirring till all the sugar is dissolved. Wlien it is dissolved stir in the peel and spirits, and then one pint of cold new milk; pass it through a bag till clear, and bottle it. It will keep good for twelve months. VERDIGRIS, a green compound liable to form on copper or brass cooking vessels, should be carefully sought for and removed. It is a salt, called b}' chemists acetate of copper, and is a virulent poison. Persons poisoned by it should swallow a large quantity of the whites of eggs. See Poisons. VERDITER is a bluish green pigment, and IS a carbonate of copper and lime. Mr. Cooley, in his excellent " Cyclopedia of Practical Receipts," says it is obtained by adding chalk, whiting, or milk of lime to the solution of copper in aquafortis, or by triturating recently precipitated and still moist carbonate or oxide of copper with hydrate of lime. A quantity of whiting or milk of lime is put into a tub, and upon this the solution of copper is poured. The mixture is to be stirred every day for some hours together till the liquor loses its colour. The liquor is then to be poured off, and more solution of copper is to be added. This is to be repeated till the whiting has acquired the proper colour ; then it is to be washed with water, spread on large pieces of chalk, and diied in the sun. The coppery solution employed in the abova process is made by neutralising the nitric solu- tion obtained from the refiners of gold and silver, bv heating it along with metallic copper. For Me finest qualities of verditer the lime should be of the purest kind, and the cupreous pre- cipitate should be carefully triturated with it after it is nearly dry, by which a fine velvety colour is produced. The cendres hleus en pates of the French differ from the above manily in a solution of muriate of copper being employed, and in the resulting green precipitate being turned blue by the action of carbonate of potash. Verditer is either dried into a powder or used as a water colour in the moist state. VERDUN SEEDS. Sift, pick, and rub free from dust these excellent seeds, and do them in the same manner as smooth almonds. Any other seeds may De done so. VERJUICE is the juice of young, unripe, and sour grapes. It is frequently used in French cookery, but very rarely put into English, dishes. VERJUICE: To Salt. Pulp the large fruit (the small may be pulped or mashed), mix ^ oz. of sugar with 1 oz. of salt, pound theia