[ 5iS 1 VIN VIP presence of this acid may be discovered by pour- ing into it the solution of the acetate of barytes, when a white precipitate will be formed, which is insoluble in nitric acid after being made hot. Other means of adulteration are also practised by the addition of acrid vegetable substances, which are not so easy of detection ; but one thing is certain, that factitious vinegar has no turbidity in it. Distilled vinegar would be best if the stills were made of glass, instead of having a pewter pipe. The surest detector of lead in vinegar is water impregnated with sul- phuretted hydrogen gas, which imparts to the liquor so adulterated a brown or blackish tinge. VINEGAR, PRTNTANIER. Take tarragon, savory, civet, shallot, and garlic, of each 3 ozs., with a handful of mint and balm tops; dry them all well, and put thera into a jar, with two gallons of the best vinegar; cover the jar, arid place it where it will be well exposed to the sun for a fortnight; then draw it off, press the dregs well, filter, and bottle it. Cork the bottles tightly. VINEGAR FOR SALADS. Take tar- ragon, savory, chives, eschalots, of each 3 ozs., with a handful of the tops of mint and balm, all dry and pounded; put thein into a wide-mouthed bottle, with a gallon of the best vinegar; cork it closely, set it in the sun, and in a fortnight strain off and squeeze the herbs ; let it stand a day to settle, and then strain it through a filtering bag. VIOLET DROPS (]). Take a certain quantity of syrup of violets, which mix with an equal portion of water; use this mixture, and make your drops precisely as directed for Deops, Acid. You may, if you please, perfume it with oil of violets ; but that is not necessary, as the Bvrup imparts sufBcient colour. ' VIOLET DROPS (2). Take the juice of six lemons, mix it with some finely sifted powder sugar, and two spoonsful of essence of violets, and colour it of a fine blue ; mix the whole well togethei', dry it over the fire the pame as all other Drops, and drop them off a ];nife on paper the usual size of drops : let them stand till cold. Be careful your mixture is not too thin. When the drops are cold put them into prepared boxes. VIOLET MARMALADE. Take 3 lbs. of violets and 4 lbs. of sugar ; put the former into a mortar, and bruise them to a pulp. In the meantime boil the sugar to soiiffle, then add the flowers, stir them together, add 2 lbs. of apple marmalade, and when it has boiled up a few times put the marmalade into pots. VIOLETS : To Rock Candy. Pick the leaves off the violets, then boil some of the finest sugar to souffle, pour it into a candying-pan made of tin, in the form of a dripping-pan, about three inches deep ; then strew the violet leaves as thickly as possible on the top, and put it into a hot stove, in which let it j'emain for ten days. When it is candied hard break a hole in one corner of it, and drain off all the syrup ; break it out, and place it in heaps upon a tin to dry in a stove. VIOLETS, CANDIED. Pick of? the green stalks from some double violets ; boil some sugar to souffle, put in the violets, and keep them in till the sugar again boils to souffle; then rub the sugar against the sides of the pan until it is white; stir together till the sugar leaves the violets, and then stiffen and dry them. VIOLETS, CONSERVE OF. Take \ lb. of early violets picked, and bruise them in a mortar; boil 2 lbs. of sugar to casse, take it off, put in the pulp, mix together over the fire, and when the sugar bubbles up pour the conserve into moulds. VIOLETS, SYRUP OF (L) Take of sweet violet flowers fully in bloom 4 ozs., and soak them in 16 ozs. of boiling water for twenty-four hours in a cov^d glass or earthenware vessel. Strain the liquor from the flowers, and dissolve in it 30 ozs. of fine loaf sugar. VIOLETS, SYRUP OF (2). Pound very lightly in a marble mortar, and with a wooden pestle, 1 lb. of picked violets ; warm gradually a glass or earthenware vessel with a small open- ing, in which put the pounded flowers, and pour over them 2 lbs. of boiling water; close the vessel hermetically, and place it on hot ashes, renewing them when necessary, to keep up an equal temperature for twelve hours; after that time pass the whole through a coarse cloth, squeezing it well; let it stand for half an hour; then pour it off very carefully that all the sedi- ment may remain at the bottom, weigh it, and the above quantities will have yielded 17 ozs. Put into a matrass 2 lbs. of crushed sugar, with the infusion ; close the matrass tightly, and set it in a bain-marie over a moderate fire; shake it oc- casionally to accelerate the dissolution of the sugar, and when perfectly dissolved let the fire go out and the matrass cool graduall}'. Wheu cold pour the syrup into bottles. VIPER. See Adder, Bite of the. VIPER BROTH. Vipers cannot always be procured in England, though there is an abun- dance of them in particular parts. In Italy, and where their surprising restorative virtues are known, they are in great request. Viper and frog broths are the on\j nourishments given after extreme unction has been administered, and they not unfrequently restore the despaii ed- of patient. Viper essence is the basis and source of the celebrity of the celebrated and official Venetian trial: to it above a hundred in-