NUT [ 259 ] NUT not too much melted, for it is very apt to soften when the nuts are added to it. NUT TART. Beat and blanch ^ lb. of nuts with orange-flower water, a plum or two, cinnamon, ginger, and sugar; beat ten j^olks, and thicken them over the fire with a pint of cream or milk ; mix the whole together w ith some grated Naples biscuit, put it into a sheeted dish, and when baked stick it over with the nuts cut into fillets. NUTMEG, ESSENCE OF Take 2ozs. of the strongest spirit of wine, and add to it 1 drachm of the oil of nutmeg. NUTMEG PUDDING. The yolks of six eggs beaten with four spoonsful of rose water, ^ lb. of fresh butter, two nutmegs, or the same weight of mace ; four Naples biscuits or rusks, grated in f lb. of sugar well pounded, sifted, and beaten up with the butter; three oranges, grated and tied up in a piece of muslin, with several hot waters thrown to it, to exti'act the bitter from it. Beat up all well together, and put a paste on the bottom of the dish. NUTMEGS are too well known to require description. The best are small and round, and are to be preferred to those that are large and egg-shaped. It is said that they are often perforated and boiled, in order to extract their essential oil, and the orifice carefully closed to avoid detection; but the fraud may easily be discovered by their lightness: the oil is con- tained in the dark veins which penetrate the kernel. Butter of nutmegs is obtained by bruising the kernels into a paste, which is com- pressed in bags between hot metal plates, and is the fixed oil of nutmegs. This is met with in commerce in the form of flattened, square masses, of a yellowish colour, solid, marbled internally, 500 parts containing about 60 of essential oil. There are two varieties of it: one in small earthen pots, of mace colour, and • very agreeable smell, is exported from the Moluccas to Holland ; the other, obtained from Holland in flat cakes, far inferior to the first, and is usually adulterated with spermaceti and animal fat. This concrete oil has a certain acridity, and, employed in liniments, excoriates the skin after being rubbed for some time. The essential oil of nutmegs is obtained by powdering the kernels and distilling with water ; it is of a pale straw coloiu", lighter than water, soluble in alcohol and ether, with a pungent taste, and a very strong nutmeg odour. Upon standing it deposits a crystalline stearop- tine, which is called by John mynsticin. In the island of Banda the whole fruit of the nutmeg tree is preserved by boiling it first in water, and afterwards in syrup; or by pick- ling it in brine, vinegar, &c., in a manner Bimilar to walnuts. With respect to their eiTects on the human body, nutmegs are strongly aromatic, stomachic, and astringent: hence this drug has often been used for diarrhoeas and dysenteries, in doses of from 10 to 20 grains in powder, or in larger quantities when infused in port wine. In violent headaches, arising from a debilitated stomach, small doses of this medicine have frequently been found of real service ; but, if injudiciously employed, it is apt to affect the head, not unlike opium and other powerful narcotics. NUTMEGS: To Candy. Take li lb. of double-refined sugar, one-eighth of a pint of rose water, a very little gum arable, and boil these to a candy height. Let your nutmegs be first soaked in water, then put them in an earthen pan, pour your candy to them, keep them very closely covered, set them in a warm place for about three weeks, and they will be of a rock candy. NUTMEGS, SYRUP OF Take 2 ozs. of grated nutmegs, and one pint of boiling water ; digest them in a close vessel for twenty-four hours, add 1 lb. of powdered loaf sugar, and an egg beaten up with a little cold water; boil up together, skim carefully, and reduce it to a syrup. When cold add a glass of brandy to it. This syrup is strongly impregnated with the nut- megs, and forms an agreeable and convenient ingredient in puddings, &c., and all sweet dishes in which nutmegs are used. NUTRITIOUS DIET. When active ani- mating means are necessary, diet of a similar description must be had recourse to. Hence the drink in nervous, malignant, and intermit- tent fevers, as well as in diseases of a corre- spondent kind, where the thirst is considerable, should consist of such articles as lemonade, tea, coffee, or weak wine and water, and gruel with wine. To the former the juice of orange and lemon should be added. Hence, too, salep or sago with wine is proper, as is the temperate use of cyder, perry, bottled ale, porter, and wine in its unmixed state, such as port, claret, sherry, and Madeira. Ripe fruit, as roasted apples, strawberries, currants, and grapes, should be also had recourse to. In severe febrile affections of the nervous and malignant kind, requiring the use of nutritious diet, and of the other invigorating means, the stomach at first rejects sustenance, particularly that of the animal description. It is not then proper to attempt its administration; but the moment it will admit of it, animal food, in the form of beef tea or soup, may be administered, and by degrees still stronger nourishment, both of the animal and vegetable sort. Should the disease requiring the use of generous diet be of a protracted nature, tha