WIN [ 5G6 ] WIN best for bottling all sorts of wine, and rnucli cleanliness is required in this operation. The first consideration in bottling wines is to exa- mine whether the wines are in a proper state for this purpose. It is folly to attempt bottling before the wines are fine and brilliant, as they will never brighten afterwards. Before this operation is commenced all the apparatus is to be in readiness. The bottles must be all sound, clean, and dry, with plenty of good sound corks, as much depends on them. Surely no one would wittingly spoil a bottle of good wine for the sake of using a bad cork. A finger ought to be introduced into the neck of each bottle as it is corked: by this means it is ascertained what cork will best fit each of them. The small end of the cork that enters the bottle is first to be squeezed with, if convenient, iron or wooden pincers. The cork is to be put in with the hand, and then driven well in with a flat wooden mallet, the weight of which ought to be 1J lb., but not to exceed H- lb.; for, if the mallet be too light or too heavy, it will not drive the cork in properly, and is also liable to break the bottle. The cork must so completely fill up the neck of each bottle as to render them air-tight; if not, the cork must be withdrawn, and another put in. The corker must so manage as to leave a space of an inch between the wine and the cork. When all the wine is bottled it is to be stored in a cool cellar, and on no account on the bottles' bottoms, but on their sides, and saw- dust, if not moss or hay, put copiously between them to prevent their breaking, which would, of course, waste the wine. Drinking. Wines, whatever their colour may be, ought, when drunk, to be clear and brilliant; for the same wines, if not so, will not be whole- some, nor will they have their proper fine gout. Wines that have not age given them will not drink by many degrees so potent as they would have done had that been granted. Wines are known by their taste, brightness, colour, and aroma. The requisite criteria of truly good wines are that they possess strength, beauty, fragrance, coolness, and briskness. Family made wines have seldom fair play— they are mostly drunk as soon as made. How can individuals expect their wine to be good, generous, and drink well under such improper circumstances ? Wines made of grapes, currants, gooseberries, &c., approach more nearly in their nature, and in their effects on the human body, to ale than do the continental wines. The fruits require, in order to produce tliB vinous fermentation, that sugar be added to them, and the fermenta- tion must begin by the addition of some kind of yeast or ferment; and so weak are they for the most part that, in order to pi'event them from running into acidity, it is common to finish the process by the addition of some sort of spirit. All these causes combine to render home-made wine a much less perfect liquor than the wines of the continent. They con- tain more sugar. Foreign wines in a state of purity contain spirit, and depend on the spirit for their stimulation and intoxication; yet the spirit is in a state of combination, and not in a state of simple mixture, with the other ingre- dients. The consequence of this is that a given quantity of a stronger foreign wine—a wine, in fact, which contains more spirit—may be taken without intoxication than a similar quantity of some British wines, that are weaker, could be taken without that result. The effect of age on wines, w^hich is so well known to be in both cases veiy great, depends on the blending of the several ingredients—their intimate union—which time, and only time, can produce, and upon this union depends the per- fection of wine. We may just observe that wine seldom remains long in any one state : it is either improving or getting worse. Up to a certain time the several components are uniting more intimately together; and, so long as this is the case, wine is on the mend. When the union has once become perfect, the chemical action still going on, the elements enter into new combinations, and the wine degenerates until it becomes perfectly undrinkable. We remember tasting some Port that had been thirty-three years in bottle; it was as pale as Sherry, and as nauseous as physic. But to return, for we are forgetting the head that is prefixed to these remarks. The effect of wine on the human body depends greatly on the natui'e of this combination. Sweet wine is apt to cloy the stomach, and produce flatulence. Mucilaginous wine is little better. An excess of astringency very commonly produces dis- turbance in a stomach that is in any way dis- ordered. The presence of uncombined spirits is apt to occasion all the ill effects of so much diluted alcohol. From the several remarks we draw the following practical conclusions:—Home-made wines are to be regarded as a mixture of perfect wine with an excess of sugar, mucilage, and spirit. To be taken with safety they require a stomach that can digest them without any inconvenience, and a sufficient quantity of active bodily exercise to work off their effects, otherwise they will produce a degree of re- pletion similar to that caused by too rich or too much food, and a degree of undue excitement, followed by a proportionate amount of de- pression, similar to that caused by drinking diluted spirits. If they are digested without