NET [ 253 ] NET for it are summer and autumn. It will be suf- ficient, especially for persons of a spare habit, to go into the coUl bath three or four times a week. If the patient be weakened by it, or feels chilly for a long time after coming out, it is improper. In patients afflicted with wind we have always observed the greatest benefit from the elixir of vitriol. It may be taken in the quantity of 15, 20, or 30 drops, twice or thrice a day, in a glass of water. This both expels wind, strengthens the stomach, and promotes digestion. Opiates are generally extolled in these mala- dies ; but as they only palliate the symptoms, and generally afterwards increase the disease, we would advise people to be extremely sparing in the use ot them, lest habit should render them at last absolutely necessary. It would be an easy matter to enumerate many medicines which have been extolled for relieving nervous disorders, but whoever wishes for a thorough cure must expect it from regimen alone. We shall, therefore, omit men- tioning more medicines, and again I'ecommend the strictest attention to diet, aie, exercise, and amusements. NETTING. When you are about to com- mence netting take a piece of strong thread, and tie it so as to form a loop, which loop must be attached to something weiglity, or to the worker's foot, to prevent it from drawing while working. Then tie the thread on the needle to the loop, and take the mesh, pin, or needle into the left hand, holding it across the open fingers with the thumb. With the right hand then pass the thread across over the mesh, and round under the fingers to the thumb, where hold it firmly; then pass the needle through the loop formed upon the left hand, and also through the loop of strong thread, so as to se- cure the stitch to it. Then draw the thread closely round the mesh, gradually withdrawing the fingers from the loop, and using them so as to prevent the loop from entangling while the knot is forming. Make as many of these stitches as jnay be required, one after the other. To make the article round, join the first and last loops together by netting a stitch through them. Widen by netting a certain number of stitches through one of the loops. Narrow by passing the needle through several of the loops, and netting them into one stitch.— {The Finchleij Manual of Plain Needlework.) NETTLE (Urtica'dioica). From time im- memorial the bark of this plant has been em- ployed in the manufacture of textile fabrics, particularly by the ancient Egyptians. In Si- beria, even at the present day, it furnishes the inhabitants with fishing-lines and cordage; and M. Bonafous states that in many villages of Piedmont it is converted into cloths. A plant so abundant as this is might be employed to some useful purpose, when fibrous materials are so much in demand, and the supply so limited. When the plant is required to furnish fibre it should be cut in the middle of summer, and afterwards treated like hemp. The fibre might be put to many uses, and among others it has been found to make good paper. The roots yield a colouring matter, and, when boiled with alum, dye yarn of a yellow colour. The young shoots in spring supply a wholesome vegetable when boiled in the same way as other greens, and in some parts of the country they are ex- tensively used in this way. As a fodder for domesticated animals the great nettle has been cultivated in Sweden for a very long pei'iod. Cows fed upon it yield a greater quantity of milk, and of richer quality. Horses are fat- tened and improved in appearance by the seeds being mixed in their corn, so that jockeys always so use them, to give a lively air to the animal before selling him. Fowls eat the seeds with avidity, and by mixing them in their food they become fat, and are much increased in weight. The whole plant has been considered excitant, lithontriptic, emmenagogue, anti-asthmatic, ape- rient, and astringent. A decoction of the plant, strongly salted, will coagulate milk, without giving it any unpleasant flavour. NETTLE PUREE. Pick and blanch the nettles ; strain and reduce them; rub a little flour or oatmeal in butter, and add the water the nettles were cooked in, or stock, w'th pepper and salt. This is an excellent dish for those afflicted with spitting of blood. They may also be dressed as spinach. NETTLE RASH. This disease is attended with slight symptoms of fever, in some instances scarcely perceptible. About the second day an eruption may be perceived on the skin, not un- like the effect of the irritation of nettles. It generally vanishes in the day, and returns along with the fever in the morning. In a few days it departs in a scaly substance. Occasionally it is accompanied with lumps or swellings, which appear of a solid texture. The eruption, as resembling the effects of the sting of nettles, is so strong a characteristic, that it will not be easy to mistake the affection. It requires suitable articles of vegetable diet, together with lessening of temperature, and of the influence of the other natural powers. Recourse may be had to simple purgatives. NETTLE SOUP, or Kail. Have water on the fire, with a little clarified dripping, butter, the stock of roast beef bones, or any other stock; cut up young nettles, put them into it, and mix one or two handsful of oatmeal