sni [ 430 ] SHI the strips across, so that one part of each will be tweuty-five inches and a half long, and the other ten and a half. With the four longer strips make two pairs of sleeve-binders, and with the four shorter ones two pairs of shoulder-straps. There is a strip of a yard in length, and six inches in width, yet undisposed of. Fold this piece angularly, so that when it is opened it will present a square, and four of these squares will serve for the two pairs of sleeve-gussets. The little remnant, twelve inches in length by pix in width, cut into breast and wrist-gussets. The parts which require stitching, such as the collar and wristbands, should be done first. Then fold the body across at the middle, so as to form back and front, and divide it into three equal parts—one part for the arms to pass through, another to form the seams at the sides, and the third is intended to form the opening of the shirt. Tack on the sleeve-binders before sewing the seams at the sides, and place the selvages, when there are any, next to the sleeve. The seams of shirts should be sewed always on the right side, and accordingly the hem at the ends must be on the opposite side. Next put in the side-gussets, and, when set in, stitch them neatly across from one angle or corner to the opposite. Fold the body in two, placing the selvages together, and cutting down in the middle, to form the opening at the bosom. In full-sized men's shirts this opening is generally five nails in length ; in smaller shirts it must be regulated according to the sizes—perhaps about one-third part of the entire length. Either hem or back-stitch the breast or bosom, as may happen to be directed. If it be hemmed, the hem must be on the wrong side ; if back-stitched, the work must be done on the right side. Then set in the small gusset. The neck-gussets are shaped like a half-handkerchief. Place one of the straight sides of a gusset on the shoulder-strap, and pin the strap on the shirt, with the gusset towards the bosom ; then cut along the top of the shirt transversely on each side of the bosom as far as the right angle or corner of the gusset. Sew or stitch in the neck-gussets, placing the seam and the raw edges on the right side; then turn down a fold on each side of the shoulder- strap, and draw threads for the stitching, four or five threads from the double edge. Fold the shoulder-strap along the middle lengthways, and tack it slightly on the shoulder of the shijt; then open it^ and place it flat upon the shirt in the way in which it is to be stitched; then cut it at the end next the collar as far as the angle or corner of the gusset, after which separate the two parts, and place one on each side of the neck-gusset, over the seams. The raw edges where the straps were divided must be turned down, and theso parts stitched in the same manner as the others^ Double neck-gussets should be formed from a square piece folded crossways, with one half placed on each side of the shirt. The gusset may be either stitched upon the shirt, or tho shirt stitched upon it, in two rows of stitching, and the inside part of the gusset hemmed, and neatly fitted to the outside half. In the latter case the shoulder-strap should be placed straight along the middle of the gusset, and then stitched on in the same direction. Before setting on the collar take off a small slope at the front of the neck, about an inch in the centre of the bosom, and slope off gradually to the shoulders, and, if the gussets are double, gather each separately; then gather the neck, and set on the collar. Should the gathering thread break, take in a fresh thread at the half or quarters only. Either white silk, or thread rubbed with white wax, is best for this purpose. Hem down the sleeve- binders, and finish them across the ends. Pre- pare the sleeves by first hemming the opening at the wrist, which opening should be of the same length as half of the wristband ; then gather the sleeves, and put on the wristbands, and next join up the sleeves, either by stitch and fell, or any other mode of double seam, as may be directed, and set in the small wrist- gussets. Gather the tops of the sleeves, and set them in, taking care that the fulness of the top of the sleeve corresponds, as to space, with that at the wrist. Cut the button- holes on the left side, and, having worked them, sew on the buttons. Mark the shirts over the right side-gusset, and on the right side. The hem at the bosom and the shoulder- straps should be set m without gathers. Full bosoms must be made separately in large or small plaits, and inserted in the shirts, from which thirteen inches should be taken to make room for them. It is an improvement to set in a portion of the fulness at the back, under the neck-gusset. If shirts be worn with separate collars, the collar, or rather band, requires only to be about a nail in breadth, or two inches and a quarter when doubled; and it should be about three quarters of an inch deeper at the back of the neck than in the front. Double the piece of cloth for the body, so as to leave the front flap an eighth shorter than the hind flap. Flannels. All flannels should be soaked before they are made up—first in cold, then in hot water—in order to shrink them. Welsh flannel is the softest, and should be preferred if it is to be worn next the skin; but Lan- cashire flannel looks finer, lasts longer, ana should therefore be selected when the above is not its destination. Under flannel garments should be frequently changed, because they