WEL [ 556 ] WHE eggs, adding 6 ozs. of lump sugar pounded, aud the grated rind of a lemon. Bake it in a dish, and when done turn it out into another for the table. WELSH RAREBIT (1). Take a slice of bread, and toast it on both sides ; toast a slice of Gloucester cheese on one side, lay it on the toast, brown it nicely with the salamander, rub some mustard over it, and serve as hot as possible. WELSH RAREBIT (Q). Toast a slice of bread moderately brown on both sides, and butter it; then toast a slice of good Gloucester cheese on one side, and lay it next the bread, after which toast the other side with a salamander or in a Dutch oven; lay mustard, pepper, aud salt over all, and serve it hot. The vulgar name of this relish is a corruption of the Welsh pro- nunciation of a " rare bit." A plainer and more eoramon way of preparing this article is to cut a slice of bread about half an inch thick, pare off the crust, and toast it slightly on both sides ; then take a slice of fat mellow Clieshire cheese or double Gloucester, a quarter of an inch thick, take off the rind, cut out the rotten parts, and lay it on the bread in a cheese toaster or Dutch oven till it is thoroughly soft, but do not let it burn. Cover it with mustard, pepper, and salt. Good cheese may also be done in a toaster without bread, but it must be served up instantly. WEN. See Neck, Derbyshire. WHEATEARS : To Truss. When picked clean cut off the heads and pinions at the first joint, flatten the breast-bone, turn the feet close to the legs, and put one between the other; take out the gizzard, and run a skewer through the middle of as many birds as ai'e to be dressed. Being small they must be fastened to the spit. WHEY. Put a very small portion of rennet into a quart of milk, and let it stand by the side of the fire till turned; then serve it in a dish, with sugar and a little nutmeg grated, aud strewed over; or strain, the liquor carefully from the curd, and serve it quite clear. WHEY: To Make. Take a quart of new milk before it is cold, and put in as much rennet as will turn it; let it stand till it turns properly, and pour it off through a coarse cloth or sieve without pressing the curd, that the whey may be the purer. It may be drunk cold or warm, by setting it before the fire. When new milk cannot be had, staler may be used by warming it to the same degree of heat. WHEY, CURDS AND. Put a little rennet into a quart of milk, according to the quantity ■wanted ; let it stand till solid, then stir it up, and serve it in a bowl. A little sugar may be eaten '*'ith it, as well as bread. The curds, which are usually served up with cream, are prepared in the same manner, and then put in a mould with holes perforated in it for the whey to drain off, and the mould being filled up as the whey runs off till it is full, it is then to be turned out on a dish, aud plain or other cream poured over it. See Curds and Whey. WHEY, VINEGAR. Put into some boiling milk as much vinegar as will make a small quantity quite clear; dilute it with hot water to an agreeable acid, and add a few lumps of sugar. You may, if you like it better, use lemon juice instead of vinegar. WHEY, WHITE WINE. Pour as much good raisin wine to a pint of boiling new milk as will completely turn it and make it look clear; let it boil up, and then set the saucepan on one side till the curd subsides : it must not be stirred. Pour the whey off, and then add to it half a pint of boiling water and a bit of loaf sugar. WHEYS. Alum Whey. Boil -2 drachms of powdered alum in a pint of milk till it is curdled, then strain out the whey. This whey is beneficial in an immoderate flow of the menses, and in a diabetes, or excessive discharge of urine. The dose is 2 ozs., 3 ozs , or 4 ozs., according as the stomach will bear it, three times a day. If it should occasion vomiting it may be diluted. Mustard Whey. Take milk and water, of each 1 pint; bruised mustard seed, l^oz. Boil them together till the curd is perfectly separated, and afterwards strain the whey through a cloth. This is the most elegant, and by no means the least efiicacious method of exhibiting mustard. It warms and invigorates the habit, and pro- motes the different secretions. Hence, in the low state of nervous fevers, it will often supply the place of wine. It is also of use in the chronic rheumatism, palsy, dropsy, &c. The addition of a little sugar will render it more agreeable. The dose is an ordinary tea-cupful four or five times a day. Scorbutic Whey. This whey is made by boil- ing half a pint of the scorbutic juices in a quart of cow's milk. More benefit, however, is to be expected from eating the plants than from iheir expressed juices. The scorbutic plants are bitter oranges, brooklime, garden scurvy-grass, and water-cresses. A number of other wheys may be prepared nearly iu the same manner, as orange whey, cream of tartar whey, &c. These are cooling pleasant drinks in fevers, and may be rendered cordial, when necessary, by the addition of wine. White Wine Whey. Pour equal parts of white wme and skimmed milk into a basin, and after they have stood a few minutes add a double portion of boiling water. In a short time the