PR A [ 864 ] PRE excellent smell, and their flavour is extremely sweet; they are firm and stiff, the tails (which turn inward) particularly. "When the prawns are fresh their colour is very bright; but if stale they are pale, and clammy to the touch. PRAWNS : To Serve. Take li lb. of fine prawns ; pick and trim them neatly ; have ready a deep dish or soup plate, the centre of which fill with any kind of salading you please, pro- vided it has no smell; cover tliis with a large napkin folded square, and the corners turned down so as to form an octagon, leaving no more than the border of the plate or dish visible. Place a handful of nice green parsley on a napkin, and the prawns in a pyramid on ic. PRAWNS . To Stew. Pick out the tails of two quarts of prawns, put the bodies into a stewpan, with a little mace, about a pint of white wine, or water and vinegar ; stew the VFhole for a quarter of an hour, stir them well, and strain off the liquor Next wash out the pan, and put in the strained liquor, together with the tails ; grate therein a small nutmeg, add a little salt, 4 ozs. of butter rolled in flour, and shake the whole thoroughly. Cut thin a large slice of bread, toast it brown, divide it into six pieces, lay them close together at the bottom of the dish, pour the fish and sauce over them, and serve hot. Crayfish, if thus cooked, should he garnished with some of the large claws laid round thickly. PRAWNS, BUTTERED. Take them out of the shells, and warm them with a little good gravy, a bit of flour and butter, a very little nutmeg, salt, and pepper; simmer a minute or two, and serve with sippets, or with a cream sauce instead of brown. PRAWNS IN JELLY. Make a savoury fish jelly, and put some into the bottom of a small deep dish. When it is cold lay in the prawns, with their backs downwai'ds, and pour more jelly over them. Turn out when cold. PRAWNS, SOUP OF. Prepare the soup in the way directed above for stewing prawns. If the shrimps are bought by measure, each quart of soup will require at least a pint. Pick out the tails, reduce the shells and bodies, ^ud simmer them in the soup, or the water the soup is to be made of; pound them with an equal qu£intity of panada, rub them through a tammy, and mix them by degrees into the soup ; add anchovy or mushroom catsup, and verjuice or lemon juice. If it is still not thick enough put in a little butter and flour. When it is well cooked draw it to the side of the fire, and put ill the shrimps, sweetbreads, sliced mush- room, lobster sp^i,wn, &c. It is excellent made simply of the shrimps. This soup is elegant partly thickened with tomatoes; and in that case turbot roe, Italian paste, or vermicelli, looks beautiful in it. PRESERVING. The art of fabricating preserves, fruit jellies, and such confections as may be made in a private family, is an under- taking of a more kindly and grateful nature than pickling with vinegar. The handling of sugar is not attended with the same risk of forming dangerous metallic oxides, that is in- separable from the use of vinegar in metal vessels. Nevertheless, in elaborating those confections which require the juice of fruit, both copper and brass are to be avoided. These two metals, untinned, are most in use for pre- serving-pans; the former among those who manufacture for sale, the latter in private families. Both, however, ought to be tinned; for although the fresh juice of ripe fi'uit doea not act so strongly upon the copper as vinegar would do, sufficient of the metal is taken up by the acid to create injury. Even in making common syrup there is an action upon the copper, of which persons in general are not aware. We shall endeavour to explain it; for, although it cannot possibly occur to any extent during the short time occupied in boiling syrup, still it might if dissolved sugar were left stand- ing any time in the vessel. Besides, it serves to strengthen our injunctions against the use of naked copper, which we hope to see banished from all well-regulated houses. Sugar consists of mucilage, alcohol, or spirit, and oxalic acid, the latter being its real base, and giving it its flavour. This substance for- merly bore the name of "salt of sugar." Every educated person, however, knows what oxalic acid is, howf closely in appearance it resembles Epsom salt, and how often it has been taken instead, and with fatal effect. No\y, when sugar is dissolved in water, it is evident that the water holds in solution a certain quantity of oxalic acid; it is also evident that, as all acids act more or less upon copper by corroding it, which means dissolving a part of it, and so forming an oxide, the oxalic acid so acts-^a fact which makes it very clear to our comprehension that syrup boiled in copper or brass vessels untinned must contain more or less of oxalate of copper. If, therefore, naked copper and brass are not so dangerous in the preparation of syrups and jellies as in pickling with vinegar, they are still sufficiently so to deserve banishment from the laboratory of the good housekeeper. The tinning with which the inner surface of copper pans is often covered does not present the same inconvenience as the naked copper. Though vinegar will dissolve part of it, neither the juice of ripe fruit nor the syrup of sugar will do so, at least to any injiirious extent. Therefore tinned vessels may used with