NAI [ 24-2 ] NAI fingers long in oily liquors; for then this border will become too soft, and, being thus softened and relaxed, will not adhere to the nail, in the same manner as a piece of paper tied upon a glass quits the glass as soon as it comes to be soaked in water; for oily liquors have the same effect upon the borders of the nails as the water has here with regard to the paper. The gene- rality of cooks, who are almost always handling fat, have the nails of the fingers bare at the roots. The true method of keeping the borders of the nails right is to resign them to the opera tion of that natural balsam which nourishes them, and by the means of which these borders increase and are renewed every day. All that is required for this is only to touch the nails as little as possible, and to shun those things which we have told you are hurtful to them. There is nothing better for taking away that blackness which sometimes gathers between the flesh and the top of the nail than to bruise two or three sour grapes with the top of your fingers, and rub the juice upon the tops of the nails. But in doing this you must take care not to let the veijuice run down upon the sides or the root of the nails, for then it will chap the little pellicle which borders the nail both below and upon the sides, whence the root of the nail will be laid bare, and the pellicle we are speaking of will be divided into little threads or tatters : such we call those little laminse which rise sometimes about the nail, and which people usually pull out with small tweezers, or with the thumb and forefinger of the other hand. When people take this way of rooting them out they ought to pull very straight, for fear of tearing away part of the skin to which they are attached, because this may occasion little tumours that are no ornament to the finger. This is all that is needful to preserve the nail from becoming baire at the root. But when it is already laid bare what must we do to cure that defect ? The method is very easy. You have nothing to do but to wet the border of the nail every morning with spittle without wiping it afterwards, and do the same every night when you go to bed. By this means the nail will Boon recover its former enchasing, provided you shun everything which we told you above was hurtful to the nails, witliout which all your trouble will be useless. Those nails are called crooked whose extre- mities are hooked inwards in the manner of claws, which is a very great deformity. This deformity generally happens to those who make frequent use of a pin or ear-picker to take away the dirt which is apt to gather between the extremities of the nail and the flesh. This way of cleaning the nail, by being frequently repeated, makes its extremity separate from the flesh, and causes it to put on the form of a hook, because, when it is thus separated, it must necessarily turn over upon the ball of the finger. We call the ball of the finger that round fleshy eminence upon the top of it, some- thing in the form of a small pincushion, which is placed under that part of the nail which is detached from the flesh, and constitutes the principal organ of touch. In a word, we call the ball of the finger that part of it which we employ in touching anything when we want to know if it is rough or smooth, hard or soft, &e. What we have observed concerning the cause of the nails becoming crooked points out, at first sight, what is to be done for preventing this deformity ; but if they are already crooked you must use the following remedy :— Ointment for the growth and softening of the nails. Take the yolk of a hard egg and 2 ozs. of fine white wax; incorporate them together in a small pot over the fire, and add to them a little of the oil of sweet almonds, to reduce them to the consistence of an ointment, which you must keep in a box for the following use :— Anoint your nails with this ointment every night when you go to bed, and afterwards put on your gloves, vfhich you must not take off till the next morning. This must be continued for three weeks or a month ; and by this means the nails will become soft, and recover their natural shape. But, as they will grow faster than ordi- narily, be not too hasty in cutting them ; let them grow pretty large, and after you observe them to be too large pare them very gently, and at the end of one month, or thereabouts, you will see them well shaped. It happens sometimes, without the individual being at all in error, that the nails contract this ill shape themselves by the acrimony of a bad nourishing juice which is carried to them, and which, by contracting the fibres of the nails, renders them thus crooked. But, from which- ever of these two causes this crookedness of the nails proceeds, the remedy above prescribed is equally effectual, only with this difference—that in the last case, besides the ointment, you must have recourse to those internal remedies which blunt the acrimony of the blood, such as barley milk, water gruel, veal broth, and the like, having first let blood two or three times, and taken some gentle aperient. The nails, when they are allowed to grow too long, are very ugly; but you should take care, when you would prevent or correct this de- formity, that you do not cut them too short, as some persons do, who will not give them time to grow, but as soon as they observe them even with the flesh, gnaw them with their teeth, or clip them with scissors, and are not satisfied