[ 884 1 IIA 1 11AI RAISIN WINE (]). Take the best Malaga raisins, picli out the large stalks, and have your water ready boiled. When cold measure as many gallons as you design to make, and put it into a large tub, that you may have room^ to stir it. To every gallon of water put 6 lbs. of raisins, and let the whole remain fourteen days, stirring it twice in twenty-four hours. When you have strained it off put it into your cask, reserving a sufficient quantity to keep it filled as the liquor works over, which it will often do for two months or more. It must not be closed till the fermentation has ceased Take two gallons of spring water, and let it boil for half an hour; then put into an earthen jar 2 lbs. of sugar and the rinds of two lemons, pour the boiling water thereon, and let it stand covered for four or five days, after which bottle it off. In fifteen or sixteen days it will be fit for use, RAISIN WINE (2). Take 40 lbs. of Malaga raisins in March, cut them slightly, and throw the stalks in two gallons of water ; then, taking this water in part, put the raisins into a cask, with six gallons more of water and a pint of the best brandy; stir it up with a stick once a day for a week ; then close it well up, let it stand a year, and bottle it off. RAISIN WINE (3). To every gallon of water put 5 lbs. of raisins picked from the stalks, and pulled in two ; let them steep a fort- night, stirring them every day ; then pour off the liquor, squeezing the juice out of the raisins. Put the liquor into a clean cask that will just hold it, taking care that it is quite full, and let it stand open till it has done working; then add a pint of French brandy to every two gallons, and stop it up closely. It must stand six months before it is bottled off: in doing this do not draw it too near the bottom of the cask. The first three months of the year are best to make it, the fruit being then new. RAISIN WINE (4). Another method of making this pleasant liquor is as follows :—Take 300 lbs. of Malaga raisins not picked, put them into a hogshead of spring water, with 1 lb. of hops, and let the whole stand a fortnight, stirring it twice a day; then press it into a tub, put into it a large piece of toasted bread spread over with yeast, and let it ferment twenty-four hours; afterwards put the liquor into a cask, where it may work sixty-six days longer; fill it up again as it works over, and when it has ceased let it be well bunged. You may afterwards put eighteen gallons of water upon the raisins for small wine, and in a week press it out. When about two months old bottle it off. RAISIN WINE VINEGAR. After press- ing off the wine lay the fruit in a heap to heat two or three days; then to every 100 lbs. of fruit put fifteen gallons of water; let it stand in tlie tub, stirring it every day till it becomes sour ; then strain it off, put it irito the cask, and ferment it with a toast covered with yeast; lay a piece of salt over the bung-hole, set it in the sun during the summer, and in winter in a warm place. RAISINS are the dried produce of various kinds of grape vines, and come from different countries. From Barbary they come in jars, but Spain exports the finest. The finest raisins are all made near Malaga. In the immediate vicinity the country is ex- tremely rugged, but every spot where it is pos- sible to stick in a plant is cultivated. For about six miles from the town there are few vineyards, in consequence of the rugged state of the country; but beyond that distance almost every hill is covered with vines, the produce of which is all converted into raisins. The grape which produces them is the Large White Muscatel, called Muscatel Gordo; and, as it does not suc- ceed in the interior, all the muscatel raisins are made within six miles of the coast. The Lexia Raisins, which are used for puddings, are made in the interior. For making raisins the gather- ing of the grapes commences about the middle of August, by selecting only such bunches as are ripe ; after a week or two another gathering is made, and so on for a third and fourth time. A place is always reserved in the vineyard free from plants, on which to spread the grapes when gathered ; and they choose a spot where the soil is of the darkest colour, in order to its keeping the full force of the sun's rays during the day, and retaining the heat during night. The bunches are spread out separately on the ground, and never allowed to press upon each other; but before they are spread out the small grapes are picked out, as well as any that may happen to be injured, and the small ones are dried separately. They are only once turned over, and at the end of fifteen days they are generally sufiiciently dry. When they are turned any spoiled ones are picked out. Should they happen to get rain upon them while drjdng the stalks become black or rusty-looking, instead of being of a bright light brown. There are three distinct kinds of raisins. 1. The Muscatel, which are the finest, and are always packed in boxes of 25 lbs., and half and quarter boxes, containing respectively the half and quarter of that quantity. 2. Sun, or Bloom raisins, which are prepared in the same manner as the muscatel, but from a very large, long grape, called Uva larga. These are generally packed in boxes, but sometimes in casks. Those in boxes are called " bunch raisins ;" and the others, which are generally of an inferior quality, are separated from the stalks.