[ 81 ] IRO IRO with soap, which, on the contrary, imparts to it additional brightness. The oxide of iron, if precipitated on any stuff, easily unites with the fawn colour obtained from vegetable astringents; and, by varying the strength of the soda, soap, or other mordants employed in dyeing, an in- finity of shades may be produced. These colours may likewise be rendered brown, as they are susceptible of a variety of shades from a bright grey to a deep black tint, by simply passing the cotton impregnated with astringent vege- table matter through a solution of iron. When long exposed to the air iron is very liable to become rusty, especially inmoist situa- tions : hence an effectual method of preserving it bright still remains to be discovered. Various I compositions have, indeed, been contrived for this purpose; but none appears to be more serviceable than common oil, though its use is on many occasions both troublesome and dis- agreeable. To obviate these inconveniences, it has been recommended to heat the iron to such a degree that it cannot be touched without burning the hand, then to varnish it with new white wax, and expose it to the fire till the wax is completely imbibed by the metal, which should next be rubbed over with a piece of serge. According to others this metal may be perfectly secured from the effects of rust by plunging it while red-hot into linseed oil, which is suffered to drop off till it becomes dry, and then wiping the iron with a clean cloth. Thus a black crust or varnish is formed, which ren- ders it impei-vious to moisture. Again, others pour melted lead into the oil before it is ap- plied to the heated iron; but both preparations require a considerable degree of skill and ore- caution. In medicine iron is chiefly employed as a tonic and corroborant. When properly prepared it is given with advantage in diseases proceeding from laxity and inactivity of the digestive organs, such as indigestion, flatulency, colic, &c. It is also of considerable service in hypochondriacal affections, intermittent, tertian, quartan, and other fevers; but it seldom agrees with either bilious or plethoric constitutions, and is, like all active drugs, much abused by quacks and other pretenders, who should not be suffered to trifle 'vith the health and lives of the multitude. IRON MOULDS are spots on linen occa- sioned by its exposure to damp situations, and also by ink accidentally dropped on the cloth. They may be removed by moistening the stained part, sprinkling it with a small quantity of the essential salt of lemons, after which the linen is to be rubbed over a pewter plate, and the blot washed out with warm water. But a less expensive method consists in wetting the spot, applying to it a few drops of spirit of VOL. It. salt (muriatic acid), or lemon juice ; then rubbing it for a minute or longer between the fingers, while it is carefully held over a hot smoothing iron, or a basin filled with boiling water, the steam of which greatly facilitates the removal of the stains. See Ink Stains. IRONING. For this process in the laundiy the following are the necessary directions :— The ironing blanket should be of a very thick sort, called swan-skin. Spread a coarse cloth upon the ironing board to lie under it, which makes the surface of the blanket softer, and more yielding and elastic to the iron. The old method of heating irons is to place them on a hanger in front of the fire, but an ironing stove is much to be preferred: it is not very ex- pensive, it is very economical in the consump- tion of fuel, and it keeps the irons much cleaner than the old method. To clean hot irons before using them, first do so upon a piece of sand paper; then upon a piece of cloth or old bed tick kept for the purpose, and before putting them on the linen wipe their faces carefully, and ascertain that they are quite clean ; but with an ironing stove they require hardly any trouble to make clean. Then to be sure that they are not too hot, that they will not scorch or smear the clothes, take up something coarse, and iron it before meddling with the fine things. The heat of the iron, always taking care that it is not too hot, must be in proportion to the thick- ness of the substance to be ironed. The box iron is very little used now to what it was formerly, as for many small fine things, such as frills and laces, the Italian iron answers much better. The slipper is made to serve as an iron case or receptacle for the common flat iron, which slips into it like a foot into a slipper, and is secured by a very simple spring. The lower sur- face is smooth and highly polished, and as it is never put to the fire it is always perfectly clean. It saves much time and trouble. The common iron, having been duly heated, and the dust wiped off, is slipped into it, and secured by the spring, and then it is freely used without the risk of scorching, smearing, or in any way soiling the linen. For the use of a moderate-sized family there are required only one, or two at the most, of different sizes, unless two or three people are employed in ironing at the same time; and, as the old flat irons are used with the slippers, no additional expense is incurred. The best and most convenient way to iron shirt fronts is upon a board about twelve inches long and eight inches wide, covered with fine flannel. After the back of the shirt has been ironed place the board between the back and front. The skirts of dresses may be ironed in a similar manner to shirt fronts, using a board of the same length as the skirt, twelve inches wide at one Q