0 U f 572 1 W 0 U receives but little of the impelling force of the heart, and therefore it moves much more slowly than in- the arteries; and, in consequence, wounds of the veins are not of much im- portance : a small degree of resistance by a finger, or some folded linen, applied to the wounded part, will generally stop the bleeding. Hence, if a bandage or ligature be made sufficiently tight around any limb, the flow of blood into all the parts below must be prevented. But to render this certain the pressure must be very great in the whole cir- cumference of the limb ; and in some cases, from the situation of the arteries between bones, the effect cannot be obtained. To perform this process successfully in cases of wounds and operations, and at the same time to prevent the consequences of an exceedingl}' strong general pressure, surgeons have fixed on certain parts ot the trunks of arteries before their ramifica- tions for the application of a pad, or compress. The pulse is the beating or distendhig of an artery from blood propelled into it by the heart. The spaces of time between the pulsations are periods when the heart itself is filling with blood returned to it by the veins. Now, it is evident that there can be no pulsation when the flow of blood and pulsation of an artery are prevented. Where, then, the pulse can be con- veniently felt, as at the wrist, the ceasing of it, from a pressure being made upon the trunk above, will prove that the pressure is made effectually. To illustrate this let a friend feel the pulse in your wrist; then apply two or three fingers in the little pit immediately below the collar-bone, close to the shoulder. Press sti'ongly, and the pul e will cease, because the artery which supplies the upper extremity passes under the collar-bone, over the first and second ribs along this part, and will now be pressed against one of these ribs. Remove the fingers and again apply them, and the pulse will be found to alternate with the pressure. Suppose, then, a wound to be received, an artery of considerable size to be cut or torn, and a copious bleeding in consequence to happen in any part of the arm, below the place just described : it is manifest that by making a pressure with the fingers in the manner de- scribed, or assisted by a pad between the fingers and the part, the bleeding would instantly cease. The arteries of the upper extremities, or arms, proceed from the trunk after this manner: the trunk passes into the armpit, deeply situated ; it then proceeds along the side of the arm, next the body, obliquely towards the fore part of the elbow-joint, or bend, and here divides into three branches. In this course to its division it lies near the bone, and may therefore be successfully compressed. The distribution of the vessels of the lower extremities is in this way: the artery passes the cavity of the belly to the groin, where, in thin persons, the pulsation of it may be felt. At this place, in case of wound and effusion of blood very high in the thigh, effectual com- pression may be made by some fingers pressed veiy strongly in the manner desci'ibed for compression below the collar-bone, although a strong pad or other firm body, interposed between the fingers and the parts, will be better. From the groin the artery proceeds in an oblique direction downwards and inwards, and at about the middle of the inside of the thigh it lies close to the bone. This is the most favourable part for making a pressure upon it, because of the resistance of the thigh- bone behind. And when there are opportunities of choice, as in cases of wounds or operations helow this part, this is the place which surgeons fix on for the application of the compressing body: it therefore deserves particular attention. The course of the vessel is then downwards and backwards to the ham, in the hollow of which, against the lower flat end of the thigh- bone, compression may again be very success- fully made in all cases of wounds or operations below the knee-joint. But heijond this part compression must not be depended on ; for, im- mediately below the joint, the artery divides, like that of the upper extremity, into three vessels, which are situated between the bones of the leg. Now, suppose a wound to have happened by a penknife, or other thing, in the thigh, leg, or arm, and a large artery being punctured, a violent bleeding should ensue. You have no tourniquet, but you clearly understand what has been taught on this subject. How would you act ? Undoubtedly you would instantly pull off your garter, or take the first piece of string or cord you could find, roll up your handkerchief hardly, and lay it on the trunk of the artery above the wounded part; pass the garter or cord over the handkerchief round the limb ; tie a knot, leaving a proper space; and then twist the ligature by a piece of stick or cane, or any other firm body which you could procure. It sometimes happens that, after bleeding in the arm by the regular surgeon, the blood will continue to flow. In such accidents the simple principle, with which the mind should be fully possessed, is, that the blood must cease to flow if the orifice be closed. To accomplish this let the thumb be slid on to the orifice so as to bring its sides together, and to press it with a moderate foi'ce. The flow of blood will now be stopped; a little bolster of linen, folded by Bome bystander, must be carefully introduced