SEA [ 426 ] SEA to batlie in the sea -with a full stomach, but either fasting or about four hours after eating. It is hardly necessary to add that to rush into cold water if at all unwell, or on the day you have taken medicine, is dangerous in the ex- treme. The robust and healthy may bathe early in the morning, or before breakfast; but persons of a delicate or feeble constitution, or who are in the habit of dining late, and indulging in the luxuries of the table, should prefer bathing about two hours before dinner. It is better for euch persons to bathe on alternate days than for many days consecutively. Daily bathing is frequently found productive of lassitude, ac- companied by a manifest wasting of the body. It is now decided as a rule in bathing that even infirm persons should not use the cold bath without having previously taken some moderate exercise, and when they bathe being rather warm than cool. This doctrine cannot be too strongly impressed on their minds. Dr. Currie justly observes that persons ought not to wait on the edge of a bath or of the sea until they are perfectly cool; for, if they plunge into the water in that state, a sudden and alarming chilliness may be expected, which would not have been felt had they been moderately warm when they went into the water. Attention should be paid to the nature of the bathing-place. A bottom of clear sand is to be preferred. Seaweeds are to be avoided, for they frequently contain a species of pointed shell, which is apt to inflict dangerous wounds if trodden upon. It has long been considered a useful rule to have the head first wetted; and, indeed, many think it necessary to plunge head foremost into the water. It is asserted that the accumulation of blood in the head, with all its direful cour sequences, would take place if this precaution were neglected. This practice, however, has of late been objected to. It is certainly not the mode indicated by nature, as the bather, till the invention of bathing-machines, must in general have walked leisurely into the water until he reached a depth suited to his prrpose. A sudden plunge is a violent and unnatural exer- tion, which ought not to be insisted upon with delicate people; and several of the bad effects which are ascribed to cold bathing, and which have forced many to abandon it who were anxious to persevere in its use, may have origin- ated from this very practice. Every person who plunges headlong'into the water will recol- lect the partial stupor and unpleasant sensa- tions which are thus produced, affecting such delicate and sensible organs as the eye and the ear, and, when the water enters the mouth and nose, threatening suffocation. Those who feel no bad effects from the pi-actice may persevere in it; but those who experience any incon- venience from it ought at least to put the matter to the test of experiment. To have the greatest benefit from cold bath- ing it is proper to remain for only a very short time in the water, not exceeding a minute or two. If longer the body should be kept during the whole time under the surface of the water, and moving about, in order to promote the cir- culation of the blood from the centre of the body to the extremities. It is much better to remain completely immersed in deep, than to take repeated plunges in shallow water. Upon coming out of the water the body should be wiped dry with a somewhat rough cloth, and the ordinary dress quickly resumed. It is more necessary to replace the usual vest- ments quickly than to be extremely anxious to have the surface of the body perfectly dry, as any wetness from salt water is not likely to be prejudicial. After bathing use moderate exercise to pro- mote the return of the heat of the body, taking care that it should neither be violent nor too long continued. If chilliness occasionally ensues, breakfast soon after bathing in the morning; or, in the forenoon, some warm soup or broth may be taken. Indeed, if immersion, instead, of being succeeded by a glow on the surface of the skin, is followed by chilliness, languor, or headache, bathing in the sea should by no means be per- sisted in. During a course of sea-bathing, and when even the warm sea-water bath is used, friction with a flesh - brush or coarse woollen gloves ought by no means to be omitted. It may enable a patient to continue the course, when otherwise he must have given it up. Bathing-machines are useful in sea-bathing, as the bather dresses and undresses under a cover, is less exposed to cold, can bathe at any time of the tide, and can go in at any depth that may be wished for. At the same time they have their inconveniences when they are without awnings, or soaked with rain, or replete with moist exhalations ; nor are there, in general, a sufficient number of those vehicles in a proper state to accommodate the bathers. These circumstances contribute to render sea- bathing in many cases much less useful than it otherwise would be. SEA-KALE. The blanched shoots of this plant are tied up in bundles like asparagus, and are commonly dressed in a similar manner, being served up on toast at the bottom of the dish, with melted butter or gravy. SEA-SICKNESS is a convulsive affection of the stomach, attended with great nausea and