LAM [ ] LAM they are covered with the jelly. Make a ragout of livers, cocks' combs, and kidneys ; put them into some bechamel with some mushrooms ; fry the whole lightly, and pour them into the centre of the couroune of cutlets. Serve instantly. LAMB CUTLETS, FRICASSEED. Take a leg of lamb, cut it into thin cutlets across the grain, and put them into a stewpan. Make a sufficient quantity of good stock with the bones, shank, &c., to cover the cutlets, and put it into the stewpan; cover it with a bundle of sweet herbs, an onion, some cloves and mace, tied in a muslin bag, and let them stew gently for ten minutes. Take out the cutlets, skim off the fat, and remove the sweet herbs and mace; thicken it with butter rolled in flour; season it with salt and a little Cayenne pepper ; add a few mushrooms, truffles, and morels, some force- meat balls, the yolks of three eggs beaten up in a pint of cream, and some grated nutmeg. Keep stii-ring the same way till it is thick and smooth, and then put in the cutlets ; give them a toss up, take them out with a fork, lay them on a dish, and pour the sauce over them. Garnish with beet-root and lemon. LAMB, EPIGRAMME OF. Take a fore-quarter of lamb, take off the shoulder, and cut the neck so that the cutlets are not injured ; dress it (the neck) in the same manner as a shoulder of lamb with cucumbers, and when done press it between two dishes to make it smooth; let it cool, and then cut it into pieces rather larger than the cutlets. Make them all of the same size and shape (oval); rub them all over with sauce a Vatelet; dip them in melted butter; bread and lay them on a dish ; cut and trim the cutlets, season them with salt and pepper, and put them into a pan, with melted butter over them. Take the shoulder (which has been roasted), cut off all the meat, and mince and make it into a blanquette. Keep it hot in a bain-marie. Just before dinner time broil the pieces of the neck, fry and glaze the cutlets, lay them alternately in a dish en couronne, in the centre of which pour the blanquette, and serve the whole immediately. LAMB, FORE-QUARTER: To Ragout. Take off the knuckle-bone, remove all the skin, lard well with bacon, and fiy brown; then put it into a stewpan, and cover it with gravy, sweet herbs, pepper, salt, beaten mace, and a little whole pepper; cover the pan closely, and let it stew half an hour. Strain off the gravy, into which, after clearing it of the fat, put half a pint of fried oysters, with two spoonsful of red wine, a few mushrooms, and some butter rolled in flour. Boil the whole together, with the juice of half a lemon; lay the lamb in a dish, pour the sauce over it, and send it to table. LAMB, FORE-QUARTER OP: To Roast. Cover it with paper to prevent it from being scorched. If it is large it will take an hour and a half; but a few minutes before it is done take off the paper, baste, and dredge it with flour; raise up the shoulder, and lay a piece of butter under it, with a little salt; then send the lamb to table with gravy in the dish, and mint sauce in a boat. If the lamb is to be eaten cold chopped parsley should be thrown over it. The neck and breast together are called scoven. In serving up a quarter of house lamb it is cus- tomary to cut off the shoulder, and to pepper and salt the ribs. The accompaniments are salad, broccoli, potatoes, and mint sauce. LAMB, GRASS : To Boil. Take it as a general rule to allow a quarter of an hour to eveiy pound, and serve it up with spinach, carrots, cabbage, and broccoli. LAMB, HASHED. Put a slice of butter into a stewpan, with a few mushrooms cut in pieces, and a bunch of herbs; shake them over the fire with a little floui% moistening with stock; then let the mushrooms stew till the sauce is nearly consumed. Next put in some small slices of cold roasted lamb, with the yolks of three eggs beaten up in milk ; thicken the whole over the fire, taking care that it does not boil; season to your taste, and before serving add a sprinkling of vinegar. LAMB, HEAD OF: To Dbess. Bone a head as far as the eye, take out the under jaw, soak, and then scald it. When cold diy and singe it, tie it up in slices of bacon, and cook it in a blanc. In about two hours take it out, drain, and untie it. Serve it quite plain, or with a ragout made with the liver, sweetbread, feet, and mushrooms, all done in a blanc. LAMB, HEAD OF (Conde Fashion). Stew it in a white braise, and serve it \vith a sauce made of verjuice, the yolks of three eggs, pep- per, salt, a bit of butter, chopped parsley (scalded), and a little bit of nutmeg. LAMB, HOUSE, HIND-QUARTER OF. To Force. Cut off the shank, and with the knife raise the thick part of the meat from the bone ; make a forcemeat with some suet, a few scalded oysters cut small, some gi'ated bread, a little pounded mace, pepper, and salt, and mix up with the yolks of two eggs. Put this forcemeat under the part where the meat has been raised up, and under the kidney; let it be half roasted, and then put into a stewpan with a quart of mutton gravy; cover it, and let it stew very gently. When it is sufi&ciently done take it up, and keep it hot; skim off the fat, and strain the gravy; add to this a glass of Madeira wine, a spoonful of walnut catsup, half a lemon, a little Cayenne, half a pint of stewed oysters, with a bit of butter rolled in flour, and serve it over the lamb.