[ 432 ] SHA SHA cutting quality, which in a razor must always be greater than in any other instrument. The razor, though the sharpest cutting instrument known, is nothing more than a fine saw. This may be easily ascertained by examining the edge with a powerful magnifying lens. The teeth may be seen lying in even and regular succession. The effect of the hone is to make these teeth finer and sharper ; that of the strop is to make them still finer, sharper, more uniform and smooth, also to remove the long or pointed teeth which project beyond the others, and under the magnifier have the appearance of angular projecting steel bars. Many of these are left by the hone, and give great anguish if not removed. If the strop be used differently from the manner described, and the razor turned upon its edge, even though, as we said before, it be taken from the strop prior to being turned, the teeth, instead of being made fine, sharp, and even, are bent, and the result is what is termed a eodnd edge, which is by no means proper for easy shaving. None but a very hard and wiry beard can conveniently be removed by a razor fresh from the hone. Pain generally accompanies the use of such an instrument. We find that, after they have been set, razors require a great deal of management ere they are fit for shaving. Our own practice is to strop every morning when we shave the razors which have just been set. After stropping that with which we have just shaved we strop the newly-set razors one after the other, giving to each one hundred strokes on the paste surface of the strop, being fifty on each side; and twenty—that is to say, ten on each side—on the surface that has no paste. In a few days we find that the newly-set razors will do their duty smoothly and efficiently. We always strop our razor AFTER shaving. On this point we most cor- dially concur with Mr. Mechi, of razor and strop-making celebrity. In our practice we fully carry out his maxim, that the razor should always be stropped subsequently, and never PKioR to shaving. When a blade has just sei-ved its office there always remains upon it a little of the soapsuds, which, if not removed, would leave their mark in rust. Nothing re- moves all moisture from the keen edge so well as the strop. Besides this, the warmth pos- sessed by the blade just after use renders the steel, which it expands a little, more sensitive to the stimulating power of the strop, and it re- mains better sharpened and in better order. Then, again, the repose of the razor after strop- ping, and prior to use, is advantageous, because the instrument invariably cuts with more freedom. These points may appear trifling and UQ: worthy of notice; but we seriously assure our readers that success in obtaining easy shaving depends very much upon their strict observance. And we may add that difficult shaving, in most cases, might be wholly replaced by the pleasur- able operation which we have rendered it upon our own chin, if attention were paid to them. Ignorant barbers tell their customers that the best strop is the palm of the hand. This is not so . in the absence of a strop it is better than none, but it is always a bad substitute for one. The prefe]-ence of hot or cold water in shaving depends entirely on idiosyncrasy. Cold water agrees with some ; hot water with others. We shave best with hot water. We never fail to dip our razor before we use it into hot water, and we find the result always advantageous. We can- not shave so well without this kind of warming. The temperature of the water we employ is about 1(30° of Fahrenheit. Many persons object to the use of hot water, because, as they say, it destroys the temper of the razor. This is an entire fallacy. The heat applied to warm the razor cannot at all afi'ect its tempering, unless it be higlier than the heat at which the blade was originally tempered. Now, if the razor were put even into boiling water, the temperature would be several hundred degrees lower than that at which the blade was tempered; therefore the hot water cannot affect the temper of the steel. The fact is, the expansion of the metal which ensues from dipping it into hot water is in some cases favourable to its action upon the beard, in others it is unfavourable; therefore the use of hot or cold water in pre- ference must depend upon the experience of the operator. The first thing to be done in shaving is to soften the beard as much as possible. Every one knows that, if a board were studded with iron wire a quarter of an inch long, it would be veiy difficult to cut this wire close with a knife; but if, instead of iron, the wire were of lead or pewter, it might be easily cut, on account of the much greater softness of these latter metals. The beard may be compared to the iron wire, and means are taken to soften it so, that it may resemble the lead or pewter. These means consist of the application of lather made of soap and water. There are many forms for this application: some use the shaving-box; others form a lather by nibbing upon a cake of soap a shaving-brush previously dipped into water; some, more recherche, use a perfumed essence of soap. We are ourselves content with the most simple of all methods of applying the lather, because we find it perfectly answers our purpose. Having rubbed, with a rather stiff shaving-brush, water over our beard for about two minutes, we next wet. one side of a