[ ft54 ] NIG NIT drawn to the size of the head, either hy very liue bobbin run in at the intervals represented in the figure, or, as is now more general, by running in a strong thread. When both parts are drawn up to the required size they are to be joined together with a cord between them, the edges inside to be overcast as before directed. The front and ends are to be sewed into a narrow double muslin band : the cap is then ready for bordering. No. 3 is, perhaps, better calculated for an elderly than a young lady : it is formed of two pieces, joined all through the centre of the cap by means of a strip of insertion. The binders are broad strips of muslin, joined to the cap at a; they cross each other at the back, and tie on the top. In No. 4 the head-piece is plain, and all in one ; but the border, arranged as we have re- presented it, has a very pretty appearance. No. 5 is a very pretty cap, and easily made. The head-piece may be either single or double, and may be ornamented with a strip of insertion both at the front and back part. The rows of trimming in No. 6 may be either lace, or muslin edged with lace: they must be whipped and seamed on to the cap. It all Aivashes nicely together. If the borders are to be edged with lace it should be done previously to their being whipped, the edging being held next to you. Care must be taken not to stretch it in the business of seaming on; on the con- trary, it should be held easily in the hand during the operation. It will be observed that, in many shapes now worn, the borders aro arranged plain in the front, as in figs. 3 and 6. NIGHT CAPS. These consist of " last-at- night " beverages, known as " bishop" and " swig." For compounding Bishop we have given due directions. Swig is thus made :—Put into a bowl J lb. of Lisbon sugar, pour on it one pint of warm beer, grate a nutmeg and some ginger into it, add four glasses of sherry, and five additional pints of beer; stir the whole well, sweeten it to your taste, and let it stand covered up two or three hours; then put three or four slices of bread, cut thin and toasted brown, into it, and it is fit for use. Sometimes two or three slices of lemon, and a few lumps of loaf sugar rubbed on the peeling of a lemon, are introduced. Bottle this mixture, and in a few days it may be drunk in a state of effervescence. NIGHT LIGHTS. See (Jandles. NIGHTMx\RE. ^ee Ikcubus. NIGHTSHADE. See Anodynes and Bel- ladonna. NIPPERS, SCOTCH. Make a stiff paste of flour, milk, and a small bit of butter; beat and roli it very thin, cut the nippers very large, prick them well, and bake them on a griddle, or an iron plate over a stove. They must be turned. NIPPLES. We shall here, in a few words, allude to the principal causes giving rise to flat and sore nipples. These, in most instances, are produced by the unnatural practice of pressing them in by tight stays. A strong healthy child should be applied to draw them out when too flat for a new-bora infant to take hold of them. The superficial ulcers and cracks which so often arise on the nipples, and which give such exqui- site pain, may generally be prevented by washing the nipples night and morning, for some months before lying-in, with brandy and water, or a lotion made with 2 scruples of the sulphate of zinc (white vitriol), ^ oz. of the spirits of wine, and 2 ozs. of rose water. It is of considerable importance to keep the nipples diy after the child has done sucking, and to secure this they should be wiped, and then dusted with powdered rotten-stone. When they become sore great attention is required. The infant should draw them through an ivory or glass shield with the prepared teat of a heifer. The nipples must be always covered with the shield, so that they may not be liable to j^ressure; and great care should be taken that the newly formed tender skin be not torn off by the coverings of the breast being left sticking to it. If the mother has but the resolution to make the attempt she will be able to suckle, though she may have been foiled in two, or three, or more previous confinements. NITPtE, or Saltpetre [nitrate of potash), is well known by its use in making gunpowder, pickling meat, &c. Purified nitre is prescribed with advantage in numerous disorders. It is usually given in doses of from two or three grains to a scruple, being a very cooling and resolvent medicine, which, by relaxing the spas- modic rigidity of the vessels, promotes not only the secretion of urine, but at the same time insensible perspiration in febrile disordei's, while it allays thirst and abates heat, though in malignant cases, in which the pulse is low, and the patient's strength exhausted, it produces contrary effects. When combined with the Peruvian bark, nitre affords a useful corrective to that drug in the cure of spreading gangrenes, as it prevents the additional heat which the baik frequently occasions, so that the efficacy of the latter is increased by the antiseptic quality of the former. But this cooling salt should never be administered in cases where the violence of the fever depends on bilious or putrid impurities in the abdomen, and where the patient is subject to hemorrhages or fluxes of blood, arising from a vitiated state of the