L LET [ 1^5 ] LET by frequenting cheerful company, taking daily and moderate exercise in the open air, or similar exhilarating means. LETTERS. Inland letters (the Channel Islands included) are to be stamped, if not ex- ceeding half an ounce, to the value of Id.; one ounce, 2d.; two ounces, 4d.; and 2d. for every ad- ditional ounce or fraction of an ounce. Parlia- mentary petitions may be received by members of either house free, if sent in covers open at the sides, when not exceeding thirty-two ounces in weight. An inland letter unpaid exceeding four ounces is liable to be opened, and returned to the sender with a double charge. Prepayment of a'l inland letters must be by stamps. Letters insuf- ficiently stamped are charged double the defi- ciency on delivery. If sent unstamped, double the prepaid rate. Parliamentary proceedings are charged the deficiency only. Re-directed letters are charged a second prepaid rate of postage. On payment of a registration fee of 6d. (in London in money or stamps, elsewhere in stamps only), besides the postage, the delivery of the letter may be insured. Objections to voters for Members of Parliament are registered for a fee of 2d. Foreign letters may also be registered. The Money Ordee Office in the General Post Ofiice is open from ten to four, on Satur- days from ten lill one, where, as well as at the principal receiving houses in the London Dis- trict and in the country, an order may be obtained for any sum not exceeding £b, payable where the remittance is to be made. The charge is, on any sum not exceeding £2, 3d. ; above £2, 6d, Any money order not applied for before the expiration of the second calendar month after that in which it was issued is charged an additional commission of 3d. or 6d., to be transmitted (with the application) in postage stamps to the President of the Money Order Office; and if the order be not paid within a twelvemonth all claim to the money will be forfeited. The initial of the payee's Christian name is now considered sufficient. Applications for money to be returned to the Bender are not liable to a second charge. Money orders crossed and remitted through a bank are paid without the name of the remitter. At the Dead Letter Office letters are received back which have remained a month unclaimed. Foreign letters addressed to per- sons who cannot be found are put into a list hung up in the General Post Office, and are kept for two months. Newspapers stamped, if posted within fifteen days after the day of publication, and with the stamp outside, free ; unstamped, not exceeding four ounces in weight, from one post town to VOL. II. another within the United Kingdom, Id.; to any of the colonies, whether stamped or un- stamped, Id. (except via any foreign coun- try, 2d.) A packet of books, or works of literature or art (including stamped newspapers published more than fifteen days, and unstamped news- papers of any date), either without a cover, or in a cover open at the ends, pi'ovided that the packet do not exceed two feet in length, may be transmitted by post within the United King- dom at the following rates :—Four ounces and u ider. Id.; eight ounces and under, 2d.; and e.ery additional eight ounces, or fraction thereof, 2 1. Book packets should bear the address of the person to whom they are sent both without and (for safety's sake) within. They may contain books, bound or unbound, written, printed, or plain, manuscript, almanacs, prints, maps, parchment, vellum, cases, rollers, book-markers, pens, pencils, or other book furniture, but no written letter, either closed or open. Penalties. Any book packet containing a written letter, or not being open at the ends, or measuring above two feet in length, or un- stamped, to be charged double letter postage. A packet of printed matter insufficiently stamped to be charged the deficiency and 4d. extra. A letter found in a book packet will be forwarded to its address, charged double postage and 4d. extra. The privileges of the book post are now ex tended to the colonies at the following rates :— To the British West Indies, Turk's Island, Honduras, Bermuda, Canada, Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Prince Edward's Island, Newfound- land, Malta, Gibraltar, Ionian Isles, Sierra Leone, Gambia, Gold Coast, St. Helena, Ascen- sion, Cape Town, Natal, Heligoland, Labuan, Vancouver Island, Falkland Islands, three times the inland rate : to Ceylon, East Indies, Hong- Kong, Mauritius, New Zealand, New South Wales, South Australia, Tasmania, Victoria, West Australia, four times the inland rate. Book packets to India and New South Wales must not exceed three pounds in weight. LETTUCE. Persons that are fond of lettuce may have it nearly all the year by sowing the different kinds, and keeping them covered in the winter. The most approved method of dressing lettuce is to cut it finely, and season with oil, mustard, pepper, salt, vinegar, and a hard egg chopped. The essence of ham is also very good for seasoning lettuce. LETTUCE, EGGS AND. Scald some cab- bage lettuces in hot water, squeeze them well, and stew them; toss them up in a saucepan with a piece of butter, and season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; let them stew half an hour, and chop them well together; place them in a