TYP [ 514 3 TYP farce balls; cut the sinews into pieces for the turtle, return all the bones and jmrings into the stock pot, and continue simmering till all the juice is extracted ; strain it through a thick wet napkin, and set it to cool. When ready to finish take oif the fat, pour it from the sediment, and put it to simmer on the side of the grate, with tlie sweet hei'bs and spices as ordered for real turtle, if they have not already been put into the stock. Make a roux of flour and butter, and strain and mix the stock by degrees to it; when the flour is well cooked and very smooth, add the juice of a lemon or two, and the wine ; when all is prepared to taste, add the meat, and let it simmer till done enough. If there is no more made than is neces- sary for present use separate it before adding the wine and roux: a gill of wine is sufficient for each quart. Dish with farce balls and eggs. TYPHUS FEVER {Typhus gravior). It is also called malignant, putrid, and spotted fever, because of the malignancy of its nature, and the symptoms of putrefaction observed towards its close. It may be called also the pestilential fever of Europe, as in many of its symptoms it bears a great resemblance to thatdreadful disease, the plague. Persons of a lax habit, a melancholy disposition, and those whose vigour has been wasted by long fasting, watching, hard labour, excessive venery, frequent salivations, &c., are most liable to it. This fever is occasioned by foul air, from a number of people being confined in a narrow place not properly ventilated, from putrid animal and vegetable effluvia, &c. Hence it prevails in camps, jails, hospitals, and infirm- aries, especially where such places are too much crowded, and cleanliness is neglected. A close constitution of the air, with long rainy or foggy weather, likewise occasions putrid fevers. They often succeed great inundations in low and marshy countries, especially when these are pre- ceded or followed by a hot and sultry season. Living too much upon animal food, without a proper mixture of vegetables, or eating fish or flesh that has been Icept too long, is likewise apt to occasion this kind of fever. Hence sailors on long voyages and the inhabitants of besieged cities are very often visited with putrid fevers. Com that has been greatly damaged by rainy seasons or long keeping, and water which has become putrid by stagnation, &c., may likewise occasion this fever. Dead carcasses tainting the air, especially in hot seasons, are very apt to occasion putrid diseases. Hence tliis kind of fever often pre- vails in countries which are the scenes of war and bloodshed. This shows the propriety of removing burying-grounds, slaughter-houses, &c., to a proper distance from great towns. Want of cleanliness is a very general cause of putrid fevers. Hence they prevail amongst the poor inhabitants of large towns, who breathe a confined unwholesome air, and neglect clean- liness. Such meclianics as carry on dirty em- ployments, and are constantly confined within doors, are likewise very liable to this disease. We shall only add that putrid, malignant, or spotted fevers are highly infectious, and are therefore often communicated by contagion, for which reason all persons ought to keep at a distance from those affected with such diseases, unless their attendance is absolutely necessaiy. The malignant fever is generally preceded by languor, a remarkable weakness, or loss of strength, without any apparent cause. This is sometimes so great that the patient can scarcely walk, or even sit upright, without being in danger of fainting away. His mind, too, is greatly df^jected , he sighs, and is full of dreadful ap- prehensions. There is a nausea, and sometimes a vomiting of bile ; a violent pain of the head, with a strong pulsation or throbbing of the temporal arteries; the eyes often appear red and inflamed, with a pain at the bottom of the orbit; there is a noise in the ears, the breathing is laborious, and often interrupted with a sigh; the patient complains of a pain about the region of the stomach, and in his back and loins ; his tongue is at first white, but afterwards it appears black and chapped; and his teeth are covered with a black crust. He sometimes passes worms both upwards and downwards, is affected with tremors or shaking, and often becomes delirious. If blood be let it appears dissolved, or with a very small degree of cohesion, and soon becomes putrid; the stools smell extremely fetid, and are sometimes of a greenish, black, or reddish cast. Spots of a pale purple, dun, or black colour often appear upon the skin, and some- times there are violent hemorrhages or dis- charges of blood from the mouth, eyes, nose, &c. Putrid fevers may be distinguished from the inflammatory by the smallness of the pulse, the great dejection of mind, the dissolved state of the blood, the petechiae or purple spots, and the putrid smell of the excrements. They may like- wise be distinguished from the low or nervous fever by the heat and thirst being greater, the urine of a higher colour, and the loss of strength, dejection of mind, and all the other symptoms more violent. It sometimes happens, however, that the in- flammatory, nervous, and putrid symptoms are so blended together as to render it very difficult to determine to which class the fever belongs. In this case the greatest caution and skill are requisite. Attention must be paid to those symptoms which are most prevalent, and both the regimen and medicines adapted to them.