ITA I 84 ] ITC ITALIENNE WITH TRUFFLES. Chop some nice black truffles, sweat them in a little consomme, and mix them with the brown sauce Italienne. If you happen to have no Italienne ready stew them for half an hour in an Espagnole only. Keep tL.d sauce thin and highly seasoned. Itch (Psora). Though this disease is com- monly communicated by infection, yet it seldom prevails where due regard is paid to cleanliness, fresh air, and wholesome diet. It generally appears in the form of small watery pustules, first about the wrists, or between the fingers ; after- wards it affects the arms, thighs, legs, &c. These pustules are attended with an intolerable itching, especially when the patient is warm in bed, or sits by the fire. Sometimes, indeed, the skin is covered with large blotches or scabs, and at other times with a white scurf or scaly erup- tion. This last is called the dry itch, and is fhe most difficult to cure. The itch is seldom a dangerous disease, unless when it is rendered so by neglect or improper treatment. If it be suffered to continue too long it may vitiate the whole mass of humours, and if it be suddenly driven in without proper evacuations it may occasion fevers, inflammations of the viscera, or other internal disorders. The best medicine yet known for the itch is sulphur, which ought to be used both externally and internally. The parts most affected may be rubbed with an ointment made of the flowers of sulphur, 2 ozs.; crude sal ammoniac finely pow- dered, 2 drachms ; hog's lard or butter, 4 ozs. If a scruple or half a drachm of the essence of lemon be added it will entirely take away the disagreeable smell. About the bulk of a nutmeg of this may be rubbed upon the extremities at bedtime twice or thrice a week. It is seldom necessary to rub the whole body, but when it is it ought not to be done all at once, but by turns, as it is dangerous to stop too mam' nores at the same time. Before the patient begins to use the ointment he ought, if he be of a full habit, to bleed, or take a purge or two. It will likewise be proper, during the use of it, to take every night and morning as much of the flowers of brimstone and cream of tartar, in a little treacle or new milk, as will keep the body gently open. He should beware of catching cold, should wear more clothes than usual, and take everything warm. The same clothes, the linen excepted, ought to be worn all the time of using the ointment; and such clothes as have been worn while the patient was undfer the disease are not to be used again, unless they have been fumigated with brimstone and thoroughly cleansed, other- wise they will communicate the infection anew. We never knew brimstone, when used as directed above, fail to cure the itch, and we have reason to believe that, if duly persisted in, it never will fail; but if it be only used once or twice, and cleanliness neglected, it is no wonder if the disorder returns. The quantity of oint- ment mentioned above will generally be sufficient for the cure of one person, but if any symptoms of the disease should appear again the medicine must be repeated.- It is both more safe and efficacious when persisted in for a considerable time, than when a large quantity is applied at once. As most people dislike the smell of sul- phur they may use in its place the powder of white hellebore root, made up into an ointment, in the same manner, which will seldom fail to cure the itch People ought to be extremely cautious lest they take other eruptions for the itch, as the stoppage of these may be attended with fatal consequences. Many of the eruptive disorders to which children are liable have a near resem- blance ; and we have known infants killed by being rubbed with greasy ointments, that make those eruptions strike suddenly in, which nature had thrown out to preserve the patient's life, or prevent some other malady. As the external use, however, of sulphur is often attended with much inconvenience, from the dirtiness of the application, as well as its disagreeable smell, other remedies are fre- quently substituted. The most efficacious of these is a solution of arsenic or oxymuriate of mercuiy. Take oxymuriate of mercuiy, 6 grains; muriate of ammonia, 10 grains; distilled water, 12 ozs. Make a lotion. Or, take oxymuriate of mercury, 12 grains ; muriate of ammonia, 1 drachm; decoction of white hellebore, 12ozs. Make a lotion. Different combinations of sul- phuric acid have also been used. Take sulphuric acid, ^ drachm; prepared lard, 1 oz. Make an ointment. Or, take white precipitate of mercury, 2 drachms; superacetateof leadandsubcarbonatt; of potash, of each 10 grains; prepared lard, 2 ozs.; essential oil of bergamot, 25 drops. Make an ointment, to be rubbed in every night at bed- time. In some cases an infusion of tobacco leaves, used as a lotion, has cured the itch. Much mischief is likewise done by the use of mercury in this disease. Some persons are so foolhardy as to wash the parts affected with a strong solution of the corrosive sublimate. Others use the mercurial ointment, without taking the least care either to avoid cold, keep the body open, or obsei-ve a proper regimen. The consequences of such conduct may be easily guessed. We have known even the mercurial girdles produce bad effects, and would advise every person, as he values his health, to beware how he uses them. Mercury ought never to be used as a medicine without the greatest care.