vol [ 545 ] attention must be paid to the state of the bowels, removing costiveness by means of some gentle Juxative. Electricity has been used with good effect when other remedies have failed. Dr. Hamilton recommends pui'gatives, with which, he observes, he has treated this disease when the usual means have failed; and the oil of tur- pentine in large doses has been advantageously used, in all probability, upon this principle. In females it is generally cured by the approach of menstruation. Dry cupping and dry vomiting have also been recommended; and, for the pur- pose of restoring the general health and strengen- ing the solids, the following pills, e.g.:—Take socotrine aloes, 1 drachm ; filings of iron, 9 scruples ; precipitated sulphuret of antimony, 1 scruple; syrup, enough to form the whole into a mass, of which make twenty-fourpills, two of which are to be taken every night or oftener. A tea- spoonful of the tincture of asafoetida should be taken night and morning. "VOICE. The first rule for the preservation of the voice, and which is equally supported by ancient authorities and modern experience, is, that the public speaker should, if he " strive for the mastery," be habitually temperate in all things; moderate in the use of wine, and in the indulgence of the table; and not given to any personal excess. A bloated body and an enfeebled constitution are not only injurious to the voice, but render a man equally incapable of any other mental or bodily exertion. The voice should not be exerted after a full meal. This rule is a consequence of the first. The voice should not be urged beyond its strength, nor be strained to its utmost pitch without intermission : such mismanagement would endanger its power altogether, and it might break. Frequent change of pitch is the best preservative. The same rule holds in music. Well-composed songs and skilful singers may sometimes, for brilliancy or effect, and to show the compass of the voice, run up and touch the highest notes, or descend to the lowest; but they should by no means, in their modulations, dwell long on the extremes. High passion disregards this wholesome rule, but the orator will not be rash in its violation ; nor should the composer of what is to be spoken or sung be remiss in his attentions. At that period of youth when the voice begins to break, and to assume the manly tone, no violent exertions should be made ; but the voice should be spared until it becomes con- firmed and established. Neither, according to this rule, should the voice, when hoarse, if it may be avoided, be exerted at any time. If a boy would give himself the chance of having a contralto, establishing his constitution, and making his fortune, let him begin to think VOL. II. and take heed from fourteen, for a cold will break the voice before the time of nature. Omission of singing often, but not too long at a time, will sink it, and vicious gratifications may ruin it and the constitution before the age of manhood. The singer may with more safety indulge at thirtj', when the constitution of man is fixed, or even at forty, than at eighteen, when nature is in a state of growth and im- maturity, though, indeed, many young pro- ficients in music have made a shameful and speedy end who have promised fair in the beginning, and might have proceeded happily ; but, setting off with over-much sail, and too strong a tide, suffered shipwreck in the channel before they could well get out to sea. Some things are found serviceable to the voice, and are used by modern singers. They may be equally advantageous to a public speaker. Warm mucilaginous and diluting drinks, in case of dryness of the fauces or slight hoarseness, barley water and tea, pre- parations of sugar, sugar candy, barley sugar, and the various sorts of lozenges, which modern ingenuity prepares so elegantly. A raw egg beaten up is reckoned the best substance for immediately clearing the voice, and is preferred by the Italian singers. Garlic is much used, notwithstanding its offensive odour. The great means of improving the voice, as of all other improvement, is constant and daily practice. The professional exercise at the bar, the senate, and the stage, if properly attended to with a view to improvement, may suffice for the orator of our times; but the ancients, besides this, were in the daily practice of preparatory declamation. Their rule was, after proper bodily exercise, to begin at the lowest tones of their voices, and go gradually to the highest. This was called anapJionesis, and sometimes the paan and the munio—the former the exercise of the voice in the highest pitch, the latter in the lowest. They used to pronounce about five hundred lines in this manner, which were committed to memory, in order that the exertions of the voice might be the less embarrassed. It is a great and general mistake among the players at rehearsal, as the common practice is, to mutter over their parts inwardly, and keep in their voices with a mis-imagined purpose of preserving them against their evening acting; whereas the surest natural means of strengthen- ing their delivery would be to warm, dephlegm, and clarify the thorax and windpipe by exerting (the more frequently the better) their fullest power of uttei'ance, thej'eby to open and re- move all hesitation, roughness, or obstruction, and to tune their voices, by the effect of such continual exercise, into habitual mellowness, and ease of compass and inflection, just from the 8 N