QUI QUI [ 870 ] QUINSY, MALIGNANT, or Putrid Ulceeous Sore Throat (Cynanche maligna). This kind of sore throat is but little knowu in the northern parts of Britain, though for some time past it has been fatal in the more southern counties. Children are more liable to it than adults, females than males, and the delicate than those who are hardy and robust. It pre- vails chiefly in autumn, and is most frequent after a long course of damp or sultry weather. It is readily distinguished from the inflam- matory quinsy by the soreness and white specks, or aphthae, covering ulcers which appear in the fauces, together with the great debility of the system, a small fluttering pulse, and an eruption on the skin of the same nature with that of scarlet fever, which are to be observed in the foi-mer; whereas in the latter there is always a great difficulty of breathing, a considerable degree of swelling, with a tendency in the parts to suppurate, and a hard pulse. Also in the seat of the disease, which in the former is principally in the nervous membrane of the mouth and throat, and the accompanying fever is of the typhoid kind ; whereas, in the latter, it chiefly occupies the glandular parts, and the fever is of the inflammatory type. Causes. This is evidently a contagious dis- temper, and is generally communicated by infec- tion. Whole families, and even entire villages., often receive the infection from one person. This ought to put people upon their guard against going near such patients as labour-under the disoi'der, as by that means they endanger not only their own lives, but likewise those of their friends and connections. Whatever tends to produce putrid or malignant fevers may likewise occasion the putrid ulcerous sore throat, as unwliolesome air, damaged provisions, neglect of cleanliness, &c. In some instances the symptoms of scarlet fever and putrid sore throat are so blended that it is frequently difficult te pronounce of which the disease partakes most; this, however, is of little importance in a practical point of view, as both require the same mode of treat- ment. Symptoms. It begins with alternate fits of shivering and heat. The pulse is quick, but low and unequal, and generally continues so through the whole course of the disease. The patient complains greatly of weakness and oppression of the breast; his spirits are low, and he is apt to faint away when set upright; he is troubled with a nausea, and often with a vomiting or purging. The two latter are most common in children. The eyes appear red and watery, and the face swells. The urine is at first pale and crude ; but, as the disease ad- Tances, it turns more of a yellowish colour. The tongue is white, and generally moist, which distinguishes this from an inflammatoi-y disease. Upon looking into the throat it appears swelled, and of a florid red colour. Pale or ash-coloured spots, however, are here and there interspersed, and sometimes one broad patch or spot of an irregular figure, and pale white colour, sur- I'ounded with florid red, only appears. These whitish spots or sloughs cover so many ulcers. An efflorescence, or eruption upon the neck, arms, breast, and fingers, about the second or third day, is a common symptom of this disease. When it appears the purging and vomiting generally cease. There is often a slight degree of delirium, the face frequently appears bloated, and the inside of the nostrils red and inflamed. The patient complains of a disagreeable putrid smell, and his breath is very ofl'ensive. , The putrid ulcerous sore throat may be distinguished from the inflammatory by the vomiting and looseness with which it is generally ushered in ; the foul ulcers in the throat covered with a white or livid coat; and by the excessive weakness of the patient, with other symptoms of a putrid fever. Unfavourable symptoms are an obstinate purging, extreme weakness, dimness of the sight, a livid or black colour of the spots, and frequent shiverings, with a weak, fluttering pulse. If the eruption upon the skin suddenly disappears, or becomes of a livid colour, with a discharge of blood from the nose or mouth, the danger is very great. If a gentle sweat breaks out about the third or fourth day, and continues with a slow, firm, and equal pulse ; if the sloughs cast off in a kindly manner, and appear clean and florid at the bottom; and if the breathing is soft and free, with a lively colour of the eyes, there is reason to hope for a salutaiy crisis. Diet. The patient must be kept quiet, and for the most part in bed, as he will be apt to be faint when taken out of it. His food must be nourishing and restorative, as sago gruel with red wine, jellies, strong broths, &c. His drink ought to be generous, and of an antiseptic quality, as red wine negus, white wine whey, and such-like. Medicine. The medicine in this kind of quinsy is entirely difl'erent from that which is proper in the inflammatory. All evacuations as bleeding, purging, &c., which weaken th( patient, must be avoided. Cooling medicines, ,, as nitre and cream of tartar, are likewise hurtful. Strengthening cordials alone can be used with safety, and these ought never to be neglected. If ;at the beginniug there is a great nausea, or inclination to vomit, the patient must drink an infusion of green tea, camomile flowers, or