IMP IMP [ 65 ] be done by due attention. If, in order to setk a remedy, we might presume to offer an opinion upon this distressing defect, we should say that, as persons of delicate habits are more generally subject to it, it pi-oceeds from a constitutional trepidation of the nerves ; and we should, there- fore, recommend, as the foundation of every hope of cure, such care of the health as may tend to strengthen the whole system. All excess should be avoided, particularly in the use of wine and strong liquors, which give a momentary stimulus, and leave behind in- creased debility. All personal irregularity ought to be still more carefully guarded against; and then it may be hoped that, with the growing strength of the constitution, the defect may gradually diminish. That it is sometimes re- moved we may judge from the fact that, though we frequently meet with young persons subject to hesitations, we do not, in proportionable num- bers, meet grown people who labour under it in any great degree ; and that owing principally to some nervous affection may be selected from observing that whatever agitates the nerves either increases or diminishes the complaint. The defect is aggravated by the fear of strangers, by surprise, by impatience, by anxiety; it is moderated by familiar society, by indulgenc;e, and by tranquillity. Since, therefore, in its distressing effects, it is subject to all the varia- tions of bodily health, it may also be presumed to be capable of being relieved by those means which contribute to establish the general health and vigour. But much of the success in the combat against this defect will depend on the exertions made by the mind, and on the establishment of such habits as tend to counteract the weakness. A young person should, therefore, practise to i speak with more than usual deliberation, and to pi practise frequently, when alone, those words and letters which he finds most difficult to enounce. He should also furnish his mind with a copious vocabulary of language, and make himself as familiar as possible with all the synonymes, so that if he finds himself unable to utter a parti- cular word he may readily substitute in its place some other of nearly the same import. The habit of running over synonymes will associate them in such a manner, that the idea of one word will readily bring the other into recol- lection. It is one character of this impediment that it is obstinate in struggling with the par- ticular word which stops the current of discourse; but in such cases it appears to be the most advisable method to divert it, if it can be done, I into some other channel. Above all, a young person should be encouraged to exert the energy of his own mind, to assume a courageous com- mand over himself, to check his trepidation with determined deliberation, and, should he even fail, not to suffer himself to be disturbed, or to lose bis temper, even when laughed at by his thoughtless young companions. If his hesita- tion be not extreme these directions may be very useful, and palliate the evil in some degree, till time and strength shall, perhaps, nearly remove it. The celebrated Dr. Darwin classes impedi- ment of speech under diseases of associations. Impediment of speech is owing to the asso- ciations of the organ of speech being inter- rupted or dissevered by ill-employed sensations or sensitive motions, as by awe, bashfulness, ambition of shining, or fear of not succeeding ; and the person uses voluntary efforts in vain to regain the broken associations. The broken association is generally between the first consonant and the succeeding vowel, as in endeavouring to pronounce the word parable the ip is voluntarily repeated again and again ; but the remainder of the word does not follow, because the association between it and the next vowel is dissevered. The ait of curing this defect is, to cause the stammerer to repeat the word which he finds difficult to speak eight or ten times without the initial letter in a strong voice, or with an as- pirate before it, as arable, Aarable, and at length to speak it very softly with the initial letter parable. This should be practised for weeks or months upon every word which the stammerer hesitates in pronouncing. To this should be added much commerce with mankind, in order to acquire a carelessness about the opinion of others. Hippocrates seems to consider this defect to arise from impatience of the organs and fulness of the mind, when the ideas crowd upon each other without due arrangement. " The indistinctness," says he, " of utterance (or impediment of speech) arises either from affections of the mind, or from the hearing of external sounds. In the one case, before the sentence which should precede is completed, words foreign from it are introduced; in the other, before that which is conceived is fully expressed, intervening thoughts are charged upon it." Another very disagreeable imperfection is the guttural sound of the letter r, an imper- fection which it was formerly the fashion in France for fetiU mattres to affect, and which they called parler gras. Such an affectation has never, we believe, disgraced our taste. The imperfection is best overcome by removing the articulation from the improper seat, the throat, to the proper organs, the tongue and the palate, and by practising to continue the sound of tha letter in the proper place, or rather nearer to