[ 458 ] SPE SPA SPARERIB: To Dpks?. This xisnally weighs about 8 lbs. or 9 lbs., and will require roasting from two to three hours, according to the thickness of the meat upon it. A bald sparerib, however, of 8 lbs. will be done in an hour and a quarter. Be careful not to place it to a fierce fire, and before putting it down joint it well, and crack the ribs across. Lay the thickest end next to the grate. Immediately afterwards dust on it some flour, and baste it with butter. Next take twelve dry leaves of sage, rub them through a hair sieve, put them into the top of a pepper-box, and about a quarter of an hour before the meat is done baste it with butter, and throw the powdered sage over it; or, instead of lhis, you may sprinkle it with duck stuffing. Serve with apple sauce and mashed potatoes. Some people carve a sparerib by cutting out slices of the thick part at the bottom of the bones, by which means these are easily separated, and by many are preferred. SPARROW PUDDING. Make a good puff paste; pick, clean, and season your spar- rows with pepper and salt; lay the paste in a basin or mould, and then put in the sparrows, with the breasts downwards ; place a good bit of butter over all, and a lid to cover them ; inclose the basin in a cloth, and boil it an hour. A beefsteak pudding may be done in the same way. SPASMS. See Antispasmodics. SPECTACLES. It is generally observed that those who soonest need the assistance of spectacles are husbandmen, sportsmen., sailors, and others whose eyes are mostly employed upon remote objects; and that the short-sighted, who require their aid later in life, are met with among scholars and mechanics, who are daily conversant with books and other new objects ; so that the eye, like every organ, is inclined to keep to that conformation to which it has been most accustomed. Spectacles, by assisting the eyes to converge rays of light, restore and preserve to us one of the most noble and valuable of our senses. They enable the mechanic to continue his labours and earn his subsistence till the extreme of old age. By their aid the scholar pursues his studies, and recreates his mind with intellectual pleasures, thus passing away daj^s and years with delight and satisfaction, which might otherwise have been devoured by melancholy, or wasted in idle- ness. Spectacles, when well chosen, should neither enlarge nor diminish objects, and should show the letters of a book black and distinctly; nor ought they in any degree to fatigue the eye. Every one must determine for himself the glasses which produce the most distinct vision; yet some attention should be paid to the judgment of the person of whom they are purchased. By ti'ving many spectacles the eye becomes fatigued in accommodating itself to the several changes, and the purchaser often fixes on a pair which is injurious to his sight. People frequently injure those tender organs, and deprive themselves of future assistance from glasses, by purchasing them of hawkers and pedlars, who are equally ignorant of the science of optics, and of the construction of the eye. Fades for the preservation of the sight. 1. Never sit for any length of time in absolute gloom, or exposed to a blaze of light, and then remove to an opposite extreme. 2. Avoid reading veiy small print. 3. Never read by twilight nor by firelight, nor, if the eyes are disordered, by candle- light. 4. Do not permit the eye to dwell on glaring objects, particularly on first awaking in the morning. 5. Long-sighted persons should accustom themselves to read with rather less light, and somewhat nearer to the eye than is naturally agreeable, while the short-sighted should habitu- ate themselves to read with the book as far off as possible 6 Nothing preserves the sight longer than a moderate degree of light • too little strains the eyes, and too great a quantity strains and dazzles them. 7 Do not wear other spectacles than your own, to which your eyes have accommodated themselves. When spectacles are necessary. 1. Spectacles are necessary when we are obliged to remove small objects to an increased distance from the eye to see them distinctly. 2. When we find it necessary to have more light than formerly, as, for instance, when we find ourselves placing the candle between the eye and the object. 3. When, on looking at, and attentively con- sidering, a near object, it becomes confused, and appears to have a kind of mist before it. 4. When the letters of a book run into one another, and become double and treble. 5. When the eyes are so fatigued by a little exercise that we are obliged to shut them from time to time, and to relieve them by looking at different objects. FmUs for calculating tliejocnsoj convex glasses. For those who live at a distance from large cities the following mode of calculating the focus of glasses will prove useful:— Multiply the distance at which a person sees distinctly with his naked eye by the distance at which it is required he should see, and divide the product by the difference between the said distances: the quotient is the desired focus.