VEN [ 537 ] YEN the gravy, and when cold carefully remove all the fat from the surface. Prepare a paste in the proportion of f lb. of beef suet finely minced to 2 lbs. of flour; rub the suet thoroughly into the flour, adding a small salt- spoonful of salt, and sufficient cold water to moisten it into a stiff' dough ; beat the lump of dough on all sides with a rolling-pin to increase the lightness of the paste; roll it out thickly, put the venison into it, pour on enough of the gravy to wet the meat all through, and then close over the paste so as to form a large dumpling, with the venison in the middle. Have ready a thick pudding cloth that has been dipped in boiling water, shaken out, dredged with flour, and spread open in a broad pan; place the pudding in the cloth, tie it firmly, leaving room for the pudding to swell, and, to prevent the water getting in, stop up the tying place with a bit of coarse dough. Lay an old plate at the bottom of a large pot of boiling water, put in the pudding, and keep it boiling steadily for an hour or more, turning it several times. When done dip it into cold water, untie the cloth, and turn out the pudding. Send it to table hot. A beefsteak pudding may be made as above. You may make the crust of fresh butter instead of suet, allowing 1 lb. of butter to Q lbs. or two quarts of flour. VENISON SAUCE. Serve venison with currant jelly by itself, or warmed with port wine, or port wine warmed by itself. VENISON SEMEY. Make some paste with the crumb of a brown loaf grated very fine, a pint of white wine, 2 lbs. of sugar, and the rind of an orange cut small; add a little nutmeg and salt; mix it well with the hand, and roll it out; wrap the venison completely in this paste, and bake it for an hour. Serve it with white wine boiled up with sugar and spice, and strew powder sugar over it. VENISON, SHOULDER OF(Stewed). Take out the bone and beat the venison ; have ready some slices of mutton fat that have been soaked a few hours in port wine, and lay them about the venison; sprinkle a little pepper and all- spice in fine powder over it, roll it up tightly, and tie it; put it into a stewpan that will just hold it, with some mutton or beef gravy (not too strong), half a pint of port wine, some pepper, and allspice; let it simmer very closely covered, and as slowly as possible, for four hours. When quite tender take off the tape, lay the meat in a dish, and strain the gravy over it. Serve with currant-jelly sauce. The shoulder should not be di'essed in this manner if very fat. VENISON STEAKS. Cut them from the neck, and season them with pepper and salt; heat the gridiron well over a bed of bright coals, and grease the bars ; lay the steaks on it, broil them well, turning them once, and save as much of the gravy as possible. Serve them with some currant jelly laid on each steak. VENISON, STEWED. Put into a stewpan a pint of good gravy, a pint of red wine, and a large spoonful of currant jelly ; cut the venison into slices, flour it, put it into the stewpan with the ingredients, and let it simmer till tender; then take up the venison, thicken the sauce with a bit of butter rolled in flour, and serve it over the meat. VENTILATION. Nothing can be more injurious and more distressing to the inhabit- ants than a close, ill-ventilated dwelling, and every means should be attempted to obviate this. Even in the country—in the midst of the bright, sweet air, so necessary to human enjoyment—houses are often sadly shut up; and the inmates are content to sit in confined apai't- ments, surrounded with curtains, and sofas, and thick heating carpets, and worsted-work of all imaginable shape and size, instead of throwing open doors and windows, admitting a free cur- rent of fresh, pure, atmospheric air, and enjoying the coolness and refreshment it produces. People in general have such a horror of draughts that they bring themselves, by de- grees, to dread the admission of air, and in- variably take cold the moment they e.xpooo themselves to it. We have much in our own power with regard to health, and we ignorantly trifle with tiiat great blessing while we fancy we are guarding it with jealous care. Many are mercifully free from organic disease, and enjoy comfortalilo health, who yet suff'er from violent winter colds and coughs, shrink from exposure to cold and wet, and pass a great part of their time in close warm rooms, with a very moderate proportion of air and exercise. Others, who live in cool airy houses, brave all weathers, and perpetually in- hale pure and wholesome breezes, are far less susceptible of atmospheric changes, seldom take cold, and, when they do, suffer com- paratively little. These precautions can always be taken. Under the most disadvantageous cir- cumstances we can always open windows and doors, and admit a free circulation, so as to counteract any close or inconvenient arrange- ment of our dwelling-houses, which frequently happens in towns. It is better to suffer from dust and " blacks " in a large town than wholly to exclude the air, so eminently essential to the health and enjoyment of man. We cannot imagine that any person can be well or happy without plenty of air, always excepting invalids, who are sometimes obliged to exclude it care- fully ; and even in such cases, with proper