LIQ [ 154 ] LIQ which vje have retained from our less refined ancestors. In the countries where these liqueurs are made they are distilled from the fruits and plants of which they carry the flavour, and mixed with sugar and alcohol. This mode of preparation, which is generally considered the best, is attended with considerable expense, without, in our opinion, giving the liqueurs a superiority over those made after the fashion we are about to indicate, that might compensate for the difference in the cost. Indeed, if the alcohol be good, we assume that as perfect liqueurs may be made by our receipts as by the most elaborate use of the alembic, and at one- third of the expense. Our system, as the reader may have already surmised, is the use of the essential oils; but much care is required in selecting the alcohol, which, in this country, is generally harsh, and not wholly free from empyreuma, unless rectified to order in small quantities. The spirit in England is not distilled from wine, like that of France and Germany, and is consequently inferior in quality to the spirit of those coun- tries. Hence it is that the eau de Cologne in England, though made from the same receipt, is not comparable to that manufactured at Cologne or at Paris. The syrup required for the liqueurs which we shall indicate—indeed, for all liqueurs made with essential oils—should be 62° over proof. If the liqueur to be made is intended to be kept, or for sale, a rectifier should be applied to for a few gallons of spirit carefully rectified to the re- quisite height; and let it be understood that, although these liqueurs are fit for use the moment they are made, they improve greatly by being kept, and, after a few years, might vie with the most famed. The art of preparing liqueurs is based on certain general and fundamental rules, a rigid attention to which will prevent failure and save trouble. The spirit that they are made of should invariably be that which will com- municate the least foreign taste to the liqueurs. Now, they are usually made of gin, and no liqueur that is so prepared will ever be grateful to a refined or educated palate. The juniper flavour is most penetrating and powerful. It pervades, as it were, evei7thing it enters into, and interferes with every flavour it is mixed with. It is one of the uncomhinahles, and should never be added to anything that is not meant to taste like gin. This latter objection applies likewise to rum. Spirit of wine is, beyond all comparison, the best article from which cor- dials can be made. It is destitute of colour—a very great object—and has no flavour, so that any flavours may be added without its inter- fering with, modifying, or altering them. Spirit of wine is likewise a decidedly cheap spirit. It may be bought for 3s. 6d. a pint, and when diluted with an equal quantity of water it is of ordinary brandy strength. It is then a spirit which costs no more virtually than Is. 9d. a pint. The next article of general importance in the making of liqueurs is syrup. This should be always made of the very best lump sugar that can be procured. The finer the sugar the more delicate will be the hqueur. The syrup should be made of the strength of 1 lb. of sugar to a pint of water. It should be brought to the boil, and then aUowed to cool. It ought never to be added hot to the spirit. LIQUEURS, SYRUP FOR. Put a quart of water into a saucepan, and let it boil; then drop into it, lump by lump, 1 lb. of loaf sugar. When all the sugar is dissolved let it boil again, and put it into a broad dish to cool. When cool it will be fit for use. LIQUORICE, called also Extract of Liquorice and Spanish Juice, is obtained from the roots of the liquorice plant, Glycyrrhiza glabra. It is cultivated in almost every country in Europe. Tiie plant has a long, succulent, tough, and pliant root, which penetrates deeply into the ground ; and hence the soil best adapted for its cultivation is a light, sandy loam, trenched two to three feet deep, and manured if necessaiy After a plantation is made it is allowed to remain three years before it is disturbed, and then it is trenched up for the sake of its roots. The roots are either sold to the brewers' drug- gists, or the ordinary druggists, or herbalists, or preserved, like carrots or potatoes, in sand till required for use. Liquorice is grown in this country; at Mitcham, in Surrey, very extensively, and at Pontefract, in Yorkshire. Used medi cinally liquorice root is an excellent demulcent, well adapted for catarrhal affections and irrita- tion of the mucous membrane of the bowels and urinary passages, and is best given in the form of a decoction, made by boiling 1 oz. of the bruised root for a few minutes in a pint of water. Liquorice root contains the following ingredients :—1. A peculiar transparent, yellow substance, called ghjcyrrhizin or glycion. This is of a sweet, saccharine taste, scarcely soluble in cold water, but very soluble in boiling water, with which it gelatinises when cool, and very distinct in its constitution from sugar. 2. A crystallisable principle, first called by Robiquet agedoite, but since found to be identical with asparagin ; 3. Starch ; 4. Albumen ; 5. A brown, acrid resin ; 6. A brown, azotised ex- tractive matter; 7. Lignin ; 8. Salts of lime and magnesia, with phosphoric, sulphuric, and malic acids. The extract of liquorice, called also Spanish