HAM HAN [ 20 ] pick all the meat that remains from the bone, leaving out any rusty part; beat the meat and the boue to a mash with a rolling-pin, and put it into a saucepan, with three spoonsful of gravy ; set it over a slow fii-e, and keep stirring it all the time to prevent its sticking to the bottom. When it has been on some time put to it a small bundle of sweet herbs, some pepper, and half a pint of veal gravy ; cover it up, and let it stew over a gentle fire. When it has a good flavour of the herbs strain off the gravy. A little of this is an improvement to all gravies. HAM AND SPINACH. Take a ham dressed as directed for Ham au Natorel, put it on a sheet of paper, place it in a saucepan sufficiently large for it to go in with ease, and simmer it for two hours with the following in- gredients :—Two carrots, two onions, garlic, bay leaves, thyme, and parsley (all shred very smRll, and previously warmed up in butter), a bottle of white wine, and a spoonful of consomme. When these are half done strain the liquor over your ham, cover the saucepan, put fire on the lid, and let it simmer as above mentioned. When done glaze it several times lightly. Take some very green spinach tossed up in butter, with salt, nutmeg, mignonette, two spoonsful of reduced Espagnole, and a little of the ham liquor; lay the spinach thus prepared on a large dish, drain the ham, and slide it on the dish gently ; put a paper as usual round the knuckle, and serve it. HAM TOAST (l). Cut some crumb of bread into thin slices; then take au equal number of thin slices of ham, beat them well with a rolling-pin, and then soak them in warm water for about two hours ; take them out, dry them well, and put them into a saucepan, with a little bacon, a slice of veai, and half a glass of stock; let them boil for half an hour, and then add half a glass of veal blond. Fry your bread to a nice colour in some lard ; place it on a dish, and on each piece lay a slice of the ham ; then pour sauce over them. Take particular care to cut the ham as nearly as possible the size and shape of the bread. HAM TOAST (2). Grate a sufficiency of the lean of cold ham; mix some beaten yolk of egg with a little cream, and thicken it with grated ham; then put the mixture into a saucepan over the fire, and let it simmer awhile. Have ready some slices of bread nicely toasted (all the crust being pared off) and well buttered, spread them over thickly with the ham mixture, and send them to table warm. HAM WESTPHALIA. Rub your ham well with 4 ozs. of pounded saltpetre, and let it lie till the next day. Boil a quart of the strongest s'ale beer with bay salt, common salt, and brown sugar, of each i lb.; pour it whilst hot on the ham, rubbing it all over thoroughly; rub it in the same manner twice every day for a fortnight, turning it once a day. At the end of that time take out your ham, and hang it pi-etty high in the chimney, with a fire made of sawdust and horse litter (fresh every night), for three days and as many nights, after which hang them over a baker's oven, or any other dry place where there is smoke from a wood fire. Be sure you fill the hock bone with salt. HAM, YORKSHIRE. Beat the hams well, and mix half a peck of salt, 3 ozs. of saltpetre, ij- oz. of sal prunella, and 5 lbs. of coarse salt. Having rubbed the hams thoroughly with this, put them into a pan or tub, and lay what remains of the mixture over them. After lying three days hang them up; then put as much water to the pickle as will cover the hams, adding salt thereto till it will bear an egg; then boil and sti'ain it off. Next morning put your hams into the pickle, and keep them down, so that they may be thoroughly covered. After lying a fortnight take them out, rub them with bran, and dry them. This is the way to cure three hams, therefore to do only one the ingredients must be proportionably less. HAMBURG PICKLE. Take six gallons of soft water, 2 lbs. of common sugar, 6 lbs. of salt, and 4 ozs. of saltpetre ; boil all these together, strain the pickle, and when cold put in the beef, mutton, pork, or tongues. Keep the meat well covered with bi'ine, and in ten days it will be fit for use, or it may remain two mouths. The pickle should be boiled every six weeks, and well skimmed. This pickle will keep good nine months. All meat for boiling should be well washed and drained pi-eviously to putting into pickle. The meat will eat better and keep much longer. HAMELIN'S MASTIC CEMENT. This is an excellent waterproof cement for plastering outside walls. Mix together 50 parts of silicious sand, 50 parts of limy marl or any finely ground calcareous stone, such as that of Bath or Port- land, and 8 parts of litharge. When required for use grind this mixture up with linseed oil to the consistence of thick paint. Apply it to the wall by means of a brush, and before apply- ing it paint the wall over with linseed oil. The wall should be dry, and the cemeut put on in dry weather. HANDS may usually be kept from becoming rough by never exercising them in dirty work, never exposing them too long in the air when it is very cold, aiad dabbling as little as possible in very cold water or in soap water, but always washing in tepid water in which a little bran is mixed. It is necessary in some cases to take opening ruedicine to carry off the acrid salts of the blood, adopting also the use of soma