[ 362 ] POX POX drink, light food, and, if nature seems to flag, by generous cordials. When a low, creeping jiulse, faintisbness, and great loss of strength render cordials necessary, we would recommend good wine, which may be made into negus with an equal quantity of water, and sharpened with the juice of an orange, the jelly of currants, or the like. Wine whey, sharpened as above, is likewise a proper drink in this case. Great care, however, must be taken not to overheat the patient by any of these things. This, instead of promoting, would retard the eruption. The rising of the small pox is often prevented by the violence of the fever: in this case the cool regimen is strictly to be observed. The patient's chamber must not only be kept cool, but he ought likewise frequently to be taken out of bed, and to be lightly covered with clothes while in it. Excessive restlessness often prevents the rising and filling of the small pox. When this happens gentle opiates are necessary. These, however, ought always to be administered with a sparing hand. To an infant a tea-spoonful of the syrup of poppies may be given every five or six hours till it has the desired effect. An adult will I'equire a table-spoonful in order to answer the same purpose. If the patient be troubled with a strangury, or suppression of urine, which often happens in the small pox, he should be frequently taken out of bed, and, if he be able, should walk across the room with his feet bare. When he cannot do this he may be frequently set on his knees in bed, and should endeavour to pass his urine as often as he can. Wheij these means do not succeed, a tea-spoonful of the sweet spirits of nitre may be occasionally mixed with his drink. Nothing more certainly j'elieves the patient, or is more beneficial in the small pox, than a plentiful discharge of urine. If the mouth be foul, and the tongue dry and chapped, it ought frequently to be washed, and the throat gargled with water and honey, sharp- ened with a little yinegar or currant jelly. During the rising of the small pox it fre- quently happens that the patient is eight or ten days without a stool. This not only tends to heat and inflame the blood, but the feces, by lodging so long in the body, become acrid, and even putrid, from whence bad consequences must ensue, It will therefore be proper, when the body is bound, to throw in an emollient clyster every second or third day through the whole course of the disease. This will greatly cool and relieve the patient. When petechise (purple, black, or livid spots) appear aniong the small pox, the Peruvian bark must immediately be administered in as large doses as the patient's stomach can bear. For a child 2 drachms of bark in powder may be mixed in 3 ozs. of common water, 1 oz. of simple cinnamon water, and 2 ozs. of the syrup of orange or lemon. This may be sharpened with the spirit of vitriol, and a table-spoonful of it given eveiy hour. If it be given to an adult in the same form, he may take at least three or four spoonsful every hour. This medicine ought not to be trifled with, but must be administered as frequently as the stomach can bear it, in which case it will often produce very happy effects. We have frequently seen the petechiee disappear, and the small pox, which had a very- threatening aspect, rise and fill with laudable matter, by the use of the bark and acids. The patient's drink ought likewise, in this case, to be generous, as wine or strong negus, acidulated with spirits of vitriol, vinegar, the juice of lemon, jelly of currants, or such-like. His food must consist of apples, roasted or boiled, preserved cherries, plums, and other fruits of an acid nature. The bark and acids are not only necessary when the petechiaB, or putrid symptoms, appear, but likewise in the lymphatic or crystalline small pox, where the matter is thin, and not duly prepared. The Peruvian bark seems to possess a singular power of assisting nature in preparing laudable pus, or what is called good matter; consequently, it must be beneficial both in this and other diseases, where the crisis depends on a suppuration. We have often observed where the small pox were flat, and the matter contained in them quite clear and trans- parent, and where at first they had the appear- ance of running into one another, that the Peruvian bark, acidulated as above, changed the colour and consistence of the matter, and pro- duced the most happy effects. When the eniption subsides suddenly, or, as the good women term it, when the small pox strike in, before they have arrived at maturity, the danger is very great. In this case blistering plasters must be immediately applied to the wrists and ankles, and the patient's spirits sup- ported with cordials. Sometimes bleeding has a surprising effect in raising the pustules after they have subsided; but it requires sluU to know when this is proper, or to what length the patient caii bear it. Sharp cataplasms, however, may be applied to the feet and hands, as they tend to promote the swelling of these parts, and by that means to draw the humours towards the extremities, The most dangerous period of this disease is what we call the secondary fever. This generally comes on when the small pox begin to blacken or turn on the face; and most of those who die of the small pox are carried off by this fever. Nature generally attempts, at the turn of the