JAU t 01 3 frictions, has been recommended, ■with the view .of dislodging biliary concretions ; also electrical shocks, passed through the liver in the direction of the common bile duct, are good auxiliaries in these cases. The warm bath and opiates, by their relaxing and antispasmodic power, are highly useful in jaundice. When it is found that jaundice has arisen in consequence of an inflammatory affection of the liver, it must be carried off at an early period by venesection, applying leeches, or cupping on the seat of the liver, giving cooling saline me- dicine, and applying a blister over the part, renewing the latter as soon as the place has skinned over, if the disease does not yield. Mer- cury internally and externally, as will be found advised under chronic Inflammation of the LrvEB. Soap has been considered as a specific in jaundice, either arising from the above cause or from biliary concretions, as well as neutral salts, and has been employed in considerable quantities. Hemlock has also been used, although without any very apparent good effect. Take subcarbonate of soda, 2 drachms; pow- der of Peruvian bark, 1 oz.; powder of rhubarb, i drachm; mucilage of gum arable enough to make an electuary, of which a tea-spoonful may be taken three times a day. Soap may be given in the following form, viz.:—Take gum ammonia and hard soap, of each 1 drachm; oil of juniper, 8 drops; syrup of ginger enough to make the mass into a proper consistence for twenty-four pills, four or five of which are to be taken twice a day. Costiveness may be removed with castor oil, 1 oz.; or, jalap, 1 scruple; cream of tartar, 2 scruples. Or, take socotrine aloes, 1 drachm; hard soap, 1 drachm ; subcarbonate of potass, 1 i drachm; syrup of buckthorn enough to make the mass into thirty-six pills, three or four of which are to be taken at bedtime. Jaundice arising from simple obstruction I of the gall ducts is often removed by the I internal and external use of the Bath waters. The Cheltenham water is another remedy ! found to be of essential service in obstructions of the liver, &c. This water contains salts of a purgative nature, at the same time that it pos- sesses a tonic power. The diet of a person labouring under jaun- dice, in whom biliary concretions are apt to form, should be chiefly of a vegetable nature, with exercise and fresh air, observing strict regularity in his mode of living, &c. JAUNE MANGE. BoH 1 oz. of isinglass in three quarters of a pint of water till melted; strain it, and add the juice of two Seville ! oranges, a quarter of a pint of white wine, the yolks of four eggs beaten and strained, and sugar according to taste. Stir over a gentle fire till it just boils up, and when cold put it into a mould, taking care, if there should happen to be any sediment, not to pour it in. JAW, LOCKED, or Tetanus (for so spasm, when much extended, is called), begins with stiffness of the neck, succeeded by a sense of uneasiness at the root of the tongue, and sometimes by an interruption of swallowing. There is also pain below the breast bone, which pain extends towards the back. This is pro- ductive both of spasm in the neck, pulling it backward, and of so rigid a contraction of the muscles of the lower jaw as to occasion what is called a locked jaw. Other muscles becoming affected, particularly those of the spine, and the trunk of the body bending backward, con- stitute that description of disease named opisthotonos. The arms, thighs, and legs are also ultimately rigidly extended. The muscles of the belly participate in the affection, as do also those of most of the other parts. The body becomes at last straight and rigid. During the severity of the attack the forehead is some- times thrown into wrinkles, the eyes are fixed, the nose is drawn upwards, and the countenance has the expression as of a horrid grin. Though there is seldom much fever, the pulse, when the spasms are violent, becomes frequent, and the face somewhat red. In the absence of the urgent symptoms the face is pale and covered with a cold sweat. The appetite and power of digesting the food are not materially impaired. The senses remain perfect. The urine is some- times discharged with difficulty. Costiveness for the most part attends. The spasms in this affection, not being constant, are renewed sometimes every ten or fifteen minutes, often spontaneously; at other times on such motions as those of attempting to swallow or speak. That species of this disease called em- prosthotonos, in which the body is said to be bent forward, and retained by spasmodic con- traction of the muscles, and which is mentioned by the ancients to have taken place, is so rare an occurrence that a modern instance of it is scarcely on record. Pleurosthotonos, or the bending of the body on one side, is also a form of tetanus which has seldom appeared. Contraction of the lower jaw, unattended with much extension of spasm, and that species of affection peculiar to infants, called falling of the jaw, in which the mouth is rigidly open, may both be considered as belong- ing to emprosthotonos. The causes are such as errors in diet and sudden vicissitudes of temperature. This dis- ease often attacks those who, in tropical countries, imprudently expose themselves to the night air. Lacerations, injuries of the parts,