QUI C 377 ] QUI cardum benedictus, in order to cleanse the stomach. If these are not sufficient he may take a few grains of the powder of ipecacuanha, or any other gentle vomit. If the disease be mild the throat may be gargled with an infusion of sage and rose leaves, to a gill of which may be added a spoonful or two of honey, and as much vinegar as will make it agreeably acid; but when the symptoms are urgent, the sloughs large and thick, and the breath very offensive, the following or similar gargles may be used: — Take decoction of Peruvian bark, 6 ozs.; muriatic acid, 1 drachm ; compound tincture of cinnamon, ^ oz.; tincture of myrrh, 1 oz. Make a gargle, to be used as above. Or, take honey of roses, 1 oz.; barley •water, 10 ozs.tincture of myrrh, i oz. ■; vinegar, 1 oz. Mix and make a gargle. To 6 ozs. or 7 ozs. of either of the above pectoral decoctions, when boiling, add ^oz. of coiitrayerva root; let it boil for some time, and afterwards strain the liquor, to which add -2 ozs. of white wine vinegar, 1 oz. of fine honey, and 1 oz. of the tincture of myrrh. This ought not only to be used as a gargle, but a little of it should fre- quently be injected with a syringe, to dean the throat before the patient takes any meat or drink. This method is peculiarly necessary for children who cannot use a gargle. No degree of force, however, is to be used ,to effect a separation of the sloughs ; and if, after a con- tinuation of the gargles for some time, the sloughs should not begin to separate, all that can safely be done is to touch them with a little alum, or the muriatic acid mixed with honey, and applied by means of a piece of lint or hair pencil. It will be of great benefit if the patient frequently receives into his mouth, through an inverted funnel, the steams of warm vinegar, myrrh, and honey. But when the putrid symptoms run high, and the disease is attended with danger, the only medicine that can he depended upon is the Peruvian bark. It may be taken in r$ubstance if the patient's stomach will bear it. If not, 1 oz. of bark grossly powdered, with 3 drachms of Virginian snake-root, may be boiled in an English pint and a half of water to half a pint, to which a tea-spoonful of the diluted sulphuric acid may he added, and an ordinary tea-cupful of it taken every three or four hours. Blisters are very beneficial in this disease, especially when the patient's pulse and spirits are low. They may be applied to the throat, behind the ears, or upon the back part of the neck. Should the vomiting prove troublesome, it will be proper to give the patient two table- spoonsful of the saline mixture in a state of effervescence by opiate joined with camphor, and cloths wetted in tincture of opium applied to the pit of the stomach. Mint tea and a little cinnamon will be very proper for the ordinary drink, especially if an equal quantity of red wine be mixed with it. If a diarrhoea should arise in the progress of the disease, powerful astringents must be imme- diately resorted to, to which may be added wine or brandy mulled up with spice. Every means must be adopted to put an immediate stop to it, as at all periods of this disease diarrhoea is a very dangerous symptom. The following is a good astringent medicine:— Take aromatic confection, 1 drachm; chalk mix- ture, 2 ozs.; cinnamon water, 1J oz.; tincture of opium, 20 to 30 drops; tincture of catechu, 1 drachm. Make a mixture, of which two table-spoonsful may be given every four hours. If bleeding from the nose occur, the steam of warm vinegar may be frequently inhaled up the nostrils, and the drink be sharpened with sulphuric acid or tincture of roses. And as hemorrhage from the nose is not an uncommon occurrence in putrid sore throats, as well as from the mouth and ears, and as it never proves critical, or is attended with any salutary effect, but, on the contrary, threatens the greatest danger, it ought to be immediately stopped by administering strong antiseptics internally, as advised under the head of Typhus Fever, and by the external application of tents dipped in some powerful styptics, as a solution of the sulphate of copper. Take suIt pbate of copper, 1^ drachm ; alum, i drachm- water, 7 ozs.; rectified spirit, 1 oz. Make a styptic solution. In case of a strangury the belly must be fomented with warm water, and emollient clysters given three or four times a day. After the violence of the disease is over, the body should still be kept open with mild purgatives, as manna, senna, rhubarb, or the like. If great weakness and dejection of spirits, or night sweats, with other symptoms of a coa- aumption, should ensue, we would advise the patient to continue the use of the Peruvian bark, with the elixir of vitriol, and to take frequently a glass of generous wine. The quantity of wine allowed ought to be in propor- tion to the age of the patient, the violence of the febrile symptoms, the degree of debility that exists, or the tendency there is to pu- trescency. These, together with a nourishing diet and riding on horseback, are the most likely means for recovering his strength. The quinsy, being a local disease, is gene.- rally caught by exposing the throat to a draught of cold air. Many people are sure to be troubled with this complaint if thev stand or