I f; 27 ] HAR stuffing, which put into the other part, tie it np, lard and roast it, flour it well, and baste with either butter or small beer. When the stew is tender take out the meat, and strain the liquor; add to it a glass of red wine, a spoonful of catsup, and a piece of butter rolled in flour, and stir it over the fire till pretty thick; take up the hare, lay it in a dish, place the stewed pieces round it, and pour the sauce over. Have some good gravy in a sauce tureen. HARE, STUFFING FOR. Take 2 ozs. of beef suet chopped finely, 3 ozs. of bread crumbs, 1 drachm of parsley, i drachm of shallot, 1 drachm of marjoram, thyme, or winter savory, the same quantity of grated lemon-peel, i drachm of nutmeg, and as much pepper and salt; mix the whole with the yolk and white of an egg till it is thoroughly stiff, put it into the hare, and sew it up. If the liver is sound it may be parboiled, minced finely, and added to these ingredients. HARES' EARS. Take as many pairs of ears as your dish will contain, scald them well, and braise them till tender; then add a glass of wine and a slice or two of lemon. When done take them out, dip them in a thick batter, and fry them. Serve them with any relishing dish. HARICOT MUTTON (V). Cut the middle or best end of a neck of mutton into chops, and put the fat of the same into a pan with flour; then fry them of a light brown, take them out, aud lay them on a dish while you do the carrots, turnips, and sliced onions in the same manner. Put the steaks into a stewpan, with the vege- tables over them, and cover the whole with boil- ing water; let them boil up, skim, and set the pan by the side of the fire to simmer gently till tender; take off the fat, and season the gravy with pepper, salt, and catsup. HARICOT MUTTON (2). Cut the best end of a neck or loin of mutton that has been kept till tender into chops of an equal thickness, one rib to each : trim off some of the fat and the lower end of the chine bone, scrape it clean, lay them in a stewpan with 1 oz. of butter, and set it over a brisk fire. If the fire is not brisk the chops will be done before they are coloured. The intention of frying them is merely to give them a very little browning. While the chops are browning peel and boil a dozen young button onions in about three pints of water for fifteen or twenty minutes, set them by, and pour off the liquor they were boiled in into the stewpan with the chops. If that is not sufficient to cover them add as much boiling water as will remove the scum as it rises, and be careful that they are not stewed too fast or too much, so take out one of them with a fish slice, and try it. When they are tender, which will be in about an hour and a half, pass the gravy through a sieve into a basin, set it in the open air that it may get cool, and you may then easily and completely skim off the fat. In the meantime set the meat and vegetables by the fire to keep hot, and pour some boiling water over the button onions to warm them. Have about 6 ozs. of carrots and 8 ozs. of turnips peeled and cut in slices, or shaped into balls about as large as a nutmeg; boil the carrots half an hour, and the turnips about a quarter of an hour; set them on a sieve to drain, and then put them round the dish the last thing. Thicken the gravy by putting 1 oz. of butter into a stewpan, and when it is melted stir in as much flour as will stiffen it; pour the gravy to it by degrees, and stir together till it boils ; strain it through a fine sieve or tamis into a stewpan, put in the carrots and turnips to get warm, and simmer gently while you dish up the meat. Lay the chops round a dish, put the vegetables in the middle, and pour the thickened gravy over. Some put in capers, minced gherkins, &c. HARICOT SOUP. Cut a large neck of mutton into two pieces, and put the scrag into a stewpan with a quart of water, four large carrots, and turnips. Boil it gently over a slow fire till all the goodness is gone out of the meat, and then bruise the vegetables into the soup to thicken it. Fry six sliced onions in butter, put the other part of the meat to the soup, and stew till the latter is tender ; season with pepper and salt, and serve it very hot in a tureen. HARICOT VEAL. Take the best end of a neck of veal, cut the bones short, but leave the rest of the joint whole, and put it into a stewpan, with enough brown gravy to cover it. While this is doing stew in some good broth a pint of boiled peas, six cucumbers pared and sliced, with two cabbage lettuces quartered. When done put the whole together, and simmer ten minutes. Serve the veal and sauce in the same dish with the vegetables, and lay around forcemeat balls. HARICOTS. In cooking haricots soak them in cold water for a few hours, and they will cook in a much shorter time; but in all cases the flavour is much improved by pouring away the water when they are partly cooked, and adding fresh hot water. The following are the best modes of cooking them :— 1. Boil them gently for one hour, and then pour away the water; add clean hot water, and boil them till tender, which will be about one hour more ; then use them in the same manner as green peas, that is, with a slice of cold butter and pepper, or with gravy, or melted butter and parsley. 2. Boil them as above till thoroughly soft, strain, dry, and put them down before the fire, under a roasting joint of meat or poultry, till they