[ 332 ] PIN PIM were creeping over the skin. In this species the pimples appear singly, and are not very numerous, and the intermediate skin is un- affected. They are most liable to appear upon the cheeks, nose, and forehead, though they sometimes spread over the shoulders and upper part of the breast. The inflammation is not violent, and they suppurate slowly. Many of them do not suppurate nor form matter at all, but gradually swell, and again slowly subside in about eight or ten days, and leave a purplish- red mark on the skin, which gradually dis- appears. Others go on to a partial suppura- tion, which continues from ten days to three ■weeks. At the commencement, when the pore begins to be obstructed, there may be felt under the skin a little ball, like a small hard seed, about the size of a pin's head, which gradually en- larges for three or four days, when it begins to inflame, and about the sixth or seventh day comes to its greatest size, and is then swelled, prominent, red, smooth, shining, and hard and painful to the touch. After two or three days more a small speck of yellow matter appears on the summit, and when this breaks, and the matter escapes, a thin humour follows, which soon dries into a yellowish crust. The inflam- mation now gradually declines, the size and hardness of the pimples diminish, the crust becomes loosened at the edges, and at last falls off about the third week. The pimples which appear in succession pass through a similar course. When the disorder has once occurred it is apt to continue, or to go off and return at uncertain intervals. In some cases it never wholly disappears, but is at one time more troublesome than at another, though the person appears to enjoy good health. And it is re- markable that the health is generally best when the pimples are worst. This appearance of good health, however, we should be much dis- posed to look upon as a deception ; for, if pim- ples are numerous and obstinately continue, we may be almost certain there is some disease lurking en masque about the liver or stomach. We infer this from the immediate effects often produced on the face by such disorders. An eruption of pimples often follows a surfeit, or the drinking of cold water or milk, or eating cold vegetables, such as salad; and, when pimples have been so produced, they sometimes continue to old age.- The case of a lady has been mentioned who had pimples produced on her face by taking vinegar. One of the safest applications, perhaps, is Dr. Bateman's sulphur wash:—Bi-eak 1 oz. of sulphur, and pour over it one quart of boiling water; allow it to infuse for twelve or fourteen hours, and apply it to the face twice or thrice a day for a few weeks. It is excellent for re- moving the roughness of the skin which usually succeeds pimples. A stronger application, when sucli is found necessary, may be prepared from vinegar and the acetated liquor of ammonia, or the spirit of Mindererus; or you may try Sir William Knighton's lotion. Take ^ drachm of liquor, of potass, and 3 ozs. of spirit of wine: apply to the pimples with a camels-hair pencil. If this be too strong add one-half pure water to it. PINE-APPLE CHIPS. Pare and trim a pine-apple, divide, and slice each half into pieces a quarter of an inch thick ; take half the weight of the fruit in powder sugar, lay the slices in a basin, with sugar strewed between, and let it stand till the sugar is dissolved, after which set it on a moderate fire to simmer till the chips be quite clear, and then sot it by. The next day remove all the syrup from the slices,-place them on glasses, and dry them in a gentle oven. PINE-APPLE ICE. Put into a pan 1 lb. ol clarified sugar boiled to petite lisse, in which Iny a fine fresh pine-apple nicely trimmed, and let it remain three hours; then add the juice of two lemons, strain the preparation througli a bolting-cloth, pressing it with a wooden spoon, that as much of the pulp may be rubbed Uu-ough with it as possible; add a glass of water, and freeze as usual. PINE-APPLE JELLY. Pare and cut a fine ripe pine into quarters, and trim each quarter of a round or long form; take 1 lb. of clarified sugar, boil it to lisse, and add a pint of cold water; let it boil, skim, and then put in the pine. When it has boiled twenty minutes take out the round pieces, and put them aside, leaving the rest twenty minutes longer; then strain the liquor through a tammy, with the juice of three lemons (also strained) and 2 ozs. of clarified isinglass; pour some of this jelly in a mould, cut the pine into small pieces, arrange them on it, and when set pour on more jelly, then more pieces, more jelly, and so on till the mould is full. PINE-APPLE PRESERVED GREEN. Choose a good-shaped pine, and having let it soak five or six days in salt and water, let it stand on a slow fire till the fruit becomes green ; then put it into a jar, and cover it with a thin cool syrup. The next day drain off the syrup, give it a boil, and pour it over the pine- apple again with great care ; leave it thus for two months, after which make a rich syrup with 2 lbs. or 3 lbs. of sugar; add a little ginger, boil and skim it well, and when nearly cold pour it over the pine previously drained. Tie the jar over tightly to exclude the air.