[ 505 ] WIN WIN vintage for those persons who cannot afford to purchase a proper wine-press. Any hedge car- penter can contrive a temporarjr press with two short flat boards, and a long heavy pole to act as a lever. A thing of this sort may be made to have very great power. Such wines as requii'e pressing may be pressed through a sweet, clean canvas bag, made with a pointed end downwards, sufficiently large to contain the residuum. Cashing the must. The must may be cashed in the place where the vintage is performed, or, for conveniency, it may be taken in portions to the cellar. Each cask will have to be filled within about an inch of the bung-hole, which should be covei'ed over lightly with a flat bit of wood, or some other light matter that will answer the same purpose. This and the last two processes ought to be performed with alacrity. Spirituous fermentation. The spirituous fer- mentation diffei's from the vinous : it is essen- tially necessary to the clarification, the good- ness, and perfection of the wine, and it may be said to be the last natural operation in the pro- cess of the vintage. If the vinous fermentation has been well conducted, and the wine cellar be not too cold, a spirituous fermentation will commence in a few days ; but this will only be just perceptible by a little hissing, a slight effervescence, and the bit of wood on the bung-hole will move up and down in time, in consequence of the dis- charge of the remaining air gas. This spirituous fermentation will abate in six or twelve days, the time depending on circum- stances, and on the quality and quantity of the wine, the liquor now being entitled to this last appellation. The brandy assigned should at this time be put to the wine by pouring it in gently without disturbing the wine. No doubt need be entertained but that association will soon take place between the spirit and the wine as effectually as if it had all been mixed together by agitation. The cask now, if not full, must be filled up, and bunged up air-tight with, if possible, a wooden bung covered with a piece of new canvas much larger than the bung, in order that the latter may be at any time taken out with more facility. In about a month after the spirit has been added the cask will again want filling up: this should be done with (if to be had) the overplus of the vintage; if not, with some other good wine. The cask must now be bunged up tightly. After this the cask is to be pegged once a month or oftener, to see if the wine be clear, and not thick ; and, as soon as it is perceived fine and bright, it is to be racked off from its lees. Backing the wine. This is an operation highly requisite for keeping wine good—to its purification, strength, colour, brilliancy, gout, aroma, &c.; and it is performed by drawing off the wine, and leaving the lees in the cask. A siphon should be used for this purpose ; but if not, the cask must l)e tapped with a cock two or three days previously to the wine being racked off. It may be racked off into another cask, or vat or tub, and returned into the same cask again after it has been well cleaned; and, if requisite, the cask may be slightly fumigated immediately before the wine is turned into it. The wine is now to be tasted, and, if found to be very weak, a little spirit is to be given to it, and the cask filled up and bunged tightly. The process of racking ought to be performed in temperate weather, and as soon after made as the wines appear any way clear ; for perhaps a second racking may make them perfectly brilliant, and if so they will want no fining. This is highly advantageous to any wines, but most particularly to red wines. Fining the nine. Many wines improperly made, or made of bad fruit, require fining before they are racked. Nevertheless the operation of fining is not always necessary. Most wines, well made, do not want fining. This point must be ascertained by drawing off a little of the wine into a glass from a peg-hole in front of the cask, and if it be found not perfectly brilliant it is then to be fined. Many are the means and finings for distempered wines, but for those lately made, and in health, the following methods will give them the requisite limpidity:— Take 1 lb. of fresh marsh-mallow roots, wash them clean, cut them into small pieces, and macerate them in two quarts of soft water; stew gently, boil the liquor down to three half- pints, strain it, and when cold mix it with half a pint of pipe-clay or chalk in powder; then pour the mucilage into the cask, stir up the wine so as not to disturb the lees, and leave the vent-peg out for some days after. Or, take two table-spoonsful of boiled rice, the white of one new-laid egg, and J oz. of burnt alum in powder. Mix these matters up with a pint or more of wine, then pour the mucilage into the cask, and stir up the wine with a stout stick, but so a.s not to agitate the lees. Or, dissolve in a gentle heat i oz. of isinglass in a pint or more of wine, then mix with it ^ oz. of chalk in powder, and when the two are well incorporated pour it into the cask, and stir up the wine, but so as not to disturb the lees. As soon as the wines are clear and bright after being fined down they ought to be racked into a sweet, clean cask, and the cask filled up and bunged tightly. Bottling and corking. Fine clear weather is