HYD [ 55 ] HYD are likely to affect either the respiratory organs or the circulation generally. As a palliative in certain spasmodic coughs there is reason for supposing that it may some- times be useful; but in that species of pul- monary irritation for which it was at first so greatly extolled it is far inferior in efficacy to well-directed doses of conium. But there is another class of diseases in which its exhibition is said to prove useful—in dyspeptic affections attended with heartburn, where it is supposed to be capable of reducing the morbid irritability of the stomach, and thereby of enabling the juices of that organ to be more slowly secreted, and of a more healthy character. As a local remedy prussic acid has also re- ceived no small share of commendation, and it has been said that it is the only application which can be depended upon for allaying the cutaneous in-itation so frequently attendant upon certain impetiginous affections. It may be conveniently administered in any liquid vehicle, as distilled water, camphor mixture, or in some vegetable infusion. Dose of the medicinal hydrocyanic acid from two to eight drops. There is, however, considerable difficulty with regard to the strength of the dilute acid employed in medicine, since the density is a criterion of greater nicety than can be conveniently used by the majority of practitioners. To counteract the poisonous effect of prussic acid Orfila recommends, after full vomiting has been excited, the exhibition of three or four spoonsful of oil of turpentine in the infusion of coffee at intervals of half an hour. M. Virey conceives that sulphate of iron in solution is the best antidote, he having observed that the salt restored a cow that was nearly killed by the essential oil of bitter almonds. When an over- dose has been taken hot brandy and water, and the ammoniated tincture of iron, are recom- mended by Mr. Thomson. HYDROMEL. In twenty gallons of spring water dissolve eight gallons of honey, and add ■1 oz. of ginger sliced. Put the whole into a cask; suspend in the liquor, from the bung, ■J oz. more ginger in a bag, and bung the cask up, leaving it to spontaneous fermentation. Have a plug near the bung, ready to draw out in case there should be any noise in the cask, in order that the carbonic acid may escape when too much formed, otherwise, if the fermentation proceeded too rapidly, the cask might burst. In twelve months the hydromel will be fit for bottling, or for drink- ing from the wood. HYDROPHOBIA. Attention to dorjs during Jiot Heather. Why the heat of the weather appears to be more oppressive to quadrupeds, particularly to dogs and those of the lower species, is their greater proximity to the ground, where there is scarcely felt the least current of air ; and this, added to the heat of the surface, has considerable influence over the arterial action of animals whose stature and conformity are not so advantageous as those of the higher class. Leaving, however, these physiological specula- tions for the present, we would strongly recom- mend to those who keep dogs, and who are anxious to preserve themselves and neighbours from harm, to supply them not only with plenty of water, but to keep them as clear of vermin, particularly during the dog days, as possible ; to give them occasionally a little brimstone and milk, and some of the worm medicines ; to turn them into fields or grassplots; and to give those that are fond of the water frequent opportunities of indulging in it. By these means the risk of their becoming mad would, if not entirely prevented, be considerably lessened. It would be advisable also, in those with shaggy coats or thickset hair, to relieve them entirely of this unprofitable and unwel- come appendage during the sultry weather, as it would grow fast enough to protect them from its inclemency when it was wanted. Attention to cleanliness, diet, and the trimming, muzzling, and othei'wise ordering of these animals, must obviously render less all danger of their becom- ing mad. Hence fewer of those melancholy scenes to which we have been forced to become witnesses, without the means of alleviation. Appearance of a mad dog. When a dog is affected with madness he becomes dull, solitary, and endeavours to hide himself, seldom barking, but making a murmuring noise, and refusing all kinds of meat and drink. He flies at strangers, but in this stage he remembers and respects his master; his head and tail hang down; he walks as if overpowered by sleep ; and a bite at this period, though dangerous, is not so apt to bring on the disease in the animal bitten as one inflicted at a later period. The dog at length begins to pant; he breathes quickly and heavily; his tongue hangs out; his mouth is continually open, and discharges a large quantity of froth. Sometimes he walks slowly, as if half asleep, and then runs suddenly, but not alwaj^s directly forward. At last he forgets his master ; his eyes have a dull, watery red appearance ; he grows thin and weak, often falls down, gets up, and attempts to fly at everything, soon becoming very furious. In this state the animal seldom lives longer than thirty hours, and it is said that his bites towards the close of his existence are the most dangerous. The throat of a person suffering hydrophobia is always much afi'ected, and it is asserted that the nearer the bite to this part the greater is the danger.