0 YS OYS [ 2f8 ] in expectation of receiving their usual food. This process of feeding oysters is only employed when a great many come up together. The real Colchester or Pyfleet barreled oysters, which are packed at the heds, are better without being put into water: they are carefully and tightly packed, and must not be disturbed till wanted for table. These, in moderate weather, will keep good for a week or ten days. If an oyster opens its mouth in the barrel it dies imme- diately. To preserve the life of barreled oysters, put a heavy weight on the wooden top of the barrel, which is to be placed on the surface of the oysters. This is to be effected by removing the first hoop ; the staves will then spread and stand erect, and make a wide opening for the head of the barrel to fall down closely on the remaining fish, keeping them close together. The oysters which are commonly sold as barreled oysters are merely the smallest natives selected from the stock, and put into the tub when ordered ; and, instead of being superior in quality, are often very inferior. To immature animals there is the same objection as to unripe vegetables. Common people are indifferent about the manner of opening oysters, and the time of eating them after they are opened: nothing, however, is more important in the enlightened eyes of the experienced oyster eater. Those who wish to enjoy this delicious restorative in its utmost perfection must eat it the moment it is opened, with its own gravy, in the under shell: if not eaten whilst alive its flavour and spirit are lost. The true lover of an oyster will have some regard for the feeling of his little favourite, and will never abandon it to the mercy of a bungling operator, but will open it himself, and contrive to detach the fish from the shell so dexterously, that the oyster is hardly conscious he has been ejected from his lodging till he feels the teeth of the gormand tickling him to death. OYSTERS : To Bake. Line a dish with paste; and spread over it some farce; prepare the oysters in their own liquor, with a little stock, butter, sweet herbs, and spices (scallops of any fish may be mixed or put in layers with the oysters); cover with tine bread crumbs, then fill up with more oysters, putting more parsley and minced anchovies into the rest of the crumbs, and finish the dish ; butter it well, lay a paste ornament over, pressing the whole well down, and border the dish with paste. A short time will bake it. The crumbs may be mixed with a quantity of finely shred parsley, curiy powder, or Parmesan. OYSTERS : To Choose. These fish come into season at the beginning of August, and cou tinue till the end of April. Of the various kinds the best are the Colchester, Milford, and Milton oysters, which last have the name of natives, and are distinguished by being white and fat. Oysters are known to be fresh by their opening; for, when alive and strong, they will close again upon the knife with a quick spring. They should be eaten as soon as open, otherwise they lose their flavour. Oysters ought never to be eaten in hot weather. OYSTERS : To Pickle. Put the oysters into a stewpan, dust them with some fine Lisbon sugar, pour to them their own liquor well strained, and set the pan on a gentle fire for five minutes, but without suffering it to boil. Decant oS the liquor into another stewpan, and add to it double the quantity of good vinegar, with some catsup, Cayenne pepper, lemon-peel, and salt. Boil the whole for a quarter of an hour, then dust the oysters again with sugar and salt finely powdered, after which place them one by one in a stone jar. When cold strain the pickle over them, and cover the whole closely with bladder and leather. Some persons cut off the beards before they lay the oysters in the jar. Pickled oysters should be served up in rows, and garnished with slices of lemon. OYSTERS: To Scallop. Allow a dozen for each shell, and more if very small. Wash them in their own liquor, cook them with small button or minced mushrooms, parsley, shallots, and some whole pepper; brown and dust in a little flour; add the liquor of the oysters and stock, and reduce them to a sauce; take it off' the fire, put in the oysters, toss them, add the juice of a lemon, fill the shells, and cover with crumbs and butter; put them into the oven till of a fine colour ; dish and serve. They may be served in their own shells, and broiled; or for broiling blanch them in their own liquor; do not let them boil; pour it off, and add a bit of butter, pepper, minced parsley, and shallots; fill the shells as above, and broil them. OYSTERS, ATTELETS OF. Fry some sweet herbs in a little butter, with a little flour and oyster liquor; season this sauce well, reduce, and thicken it with the yolks of three eggs. Have ready some oysters blanched in their own liquor, put them on skewers, and the above sauce being cold, spread it completely over the skewered oysters; roll them in bread crumbs, dip them in beaten eggs, bread them a second time, and fry them of a nice colour. OYSTERS IN BATTER. Make a batter with the yolk of one egg (or more, according to the quantity of oysters you intend to fry), a little nutmeg, some beaten mace, and a little flour and salt; dip in the oysters, and fry them in Log's lard to a nice light brown. If agreeable,