MUL [ 224 ] MUL MULBERRY PUDDING. Make a paste of I lb. of flour, 4 ozs. of beef suet chopped very finel}', and hot water, with a little salt. Roll it out upon a board, then line with it a basin, which till with very ripe mulberries ; cover with paste, tie the whole tightly in a pudding cloth, plunge it in boiling water, and let it boil an hour or two according to its size. MULBERRY WINE. Take mulberries when they are just changed from their redness to shiny black; gather them on a dry day when the sun has taken off the dew, spread them thinly on a fine cloth on a floor or table for twenty-four hours, and boil up a gallon of water to each gallon of juice. Skim the water well, and add a little cinnamon slightly bruised. Put to every gallon C ozs. of white sugar candy finely beaten. Skim and strain the water when it is taken off and settled, put to it the juice of the mulberi'ies, and to every gallon of the mix- ture put a pint of white or Rhenish wine. Let the whole stand five or six days in a cask to settle, then draw off the wine, and keep it cool. This is a very rich cordial. MULLED ALE. See Ale. MULLED JELLY. Take a table-spoonful of currant jelly, and beat with it the white of an egg and a little loaf sugar; pour on it half a pint of boiling water, and break in a slice of dry toast or two crackers. MULLED WINE (1). Put into a pint of port wine two or three cloves and a bit of cinnamon; boil it for a few moments, take out the spice, sweeten it with loaf sugar, and grate in a little nutmeg. Serve with a slice of toasted bread, the crust pared off, and cut into oblong pieces. The port wine is sometimes boiled with a third of its quantity of water. MULLED WINE (2). Boil some spice and sugar in a little water thoroughly till well flavoured, and then add an equal quantity of wine. Serve it with toasted bread. British ■wine may be used, regard being had to the quality. Some put into the mulled wine the yolks of eggs well beaten, mixed with a little cold water, and then pour backwards and for- wards from the basin to the saucepan. MULLED WINE (3). Beat together an egg, a glass of wine, and a spoonful of sugar; pour on it half a pint of hot water, stimng all the time to keep it from curdling, and when you pour it in a tumbler grate a little nutmeg over it. MULLETS: To Choose. The sea mullet is preferable to the river mullet, and the red to the grey. They shpuld be very firm, and the belly have a clear silvery line running along it. From the melt of the males and the roe of the females botargo is made. MULLETS, BOILED. Boil mullets in salt and water. When they are done pour away part of the water, and put to the rest a pint of red wine, some salt and vinegar, two onions sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, nutmeg, beaten mace, and the juice of a lemon. Boil these well together with two or three anchovies; then put in the fish, and when they have sim- mered in it some time put them into a dish, and strain the sauce over them. Shrimps or oysters may be added. MULLETS, BROILED. Scale and gut them, and cut gashes in their sides; dip them in melted butter, and broil them at a great distance from the fire. Serve with anchovy sauce, with capers, and a squeeze of Seville orange or lemon. MULLETS, FRIED. Scale and gut them, pour some mulled butter into a deep dish, score the mullets across the back, and dip them into the butter ; then put some butter in a saucepan, clarify it, and fry the mullets in it. When they are done lay them on a warm dish, and serve with anchovy sauce. MULLETS, GREY. These when in season are very rich, good fish, but not equal to the red. They are generally found in the season near the fresh water. The best way of dressing them is by baking them in a pie ; or roasting or baking them with a pudding in their belly, putting them in a tureen with some good gravy. MULLETS, RED. These are very delicious fish, and are commonly called sea woodcocks. They are dressed with their entrails in, which are like marrow itself. They only want scraping, to be washed tenderly with a cloth, and bi-oiled in a buttered paper. They are so rich the)' scarcely require sauce. But a sauce, if desired, may be made of the liquor which comes from the fish, adding a bit of butter, a little flour, a little essence of anchovy, and a glass of sherry; give it a boil, serve it iu a sauce-boat, and the fish in paper cases. MULLIGATAWNY. The following receipt for preparing mulligatawny may be depended on as the genuine mode adopted at Madras, and has been furnished to us by a friend who passed upwards of thirty years in India:—Cut up a fowl, duck, rabbit, beef, or mutton, and simmer the same in two quarts of water for a quarter of an hour. Then prepare the following ingre- dients, previously bruising the spices iu a mortar, and rejecting the husks :—J oz. of Lima turmeric, ^ oz. of Cayenne pepper, IJoz. of cori^ ander seed, \ oz. of cassia, 2 drachms 2 scruples of black pepper, six cloves of garlic cut fine, and six tea-spoonsful of pease flour high dried or baked. Pour over these half a pint of boiling water, strain through a fine sieve or cloth, add a table-spoonful of butter, and put the whole to the fowl. Have ready three middle-sized onions