SU G [ 470 ] SUF natters are undergoing decomposition, and in some mineral springs where it is united to sul- phur, it is the chief cause of tlie stench thrown out. When carbonic gas is pure its deleterious effects are almost instantaneous; but when, as is generally the case, it is diluted with at- mospheric air, it may be breathed lor some time with safety. Hydrogen is not so rapid in its effects, inducing a kind of pleasing stupor and tendency to sleep. When mixed with oxygen it may be breathed for some time without danger. A very dangerous state may be brought on by breathing the air of a close room impreg- nated with the aroma of flowers, or deteriorated by a great number of persons breathing it. A person in a state of swooning from any of these causes ought to be removed, in the inrst place, into the open air ; and his clothes being taken off, he should be placed on his back, with his head somewhat elevated. The coldness of the atmosphere, even in winter, ought to form no obstacle, nothing being more pernicious in such a case than placing the patient on a warm bed in a warm room. If the patient can swallow, cold acidulated liquids, such as vinegar and water or lemonade, should be plentifully given. The face is to be bathed with Hungary water or vinegar, and the whole body is to be sponged with vinegar and water, and rubbed with cloths dipped in any spirituous liquid. Friction with the flesh-brush may afterwards be employed. Aromatic vinegar or any strong-smelling stimu- lant may be held under the nose. Advantage may also be derived from clysters of vinegar; but the most important part of the process is inflation of the lungs. This may be done either with a pair of common bellows, or, what is better, with a double bellows, employing oxygen in place of atmospheric air. Electricity has been considei'ed as peculiarly adapted to this variety of asphyxia. Bleeding has been recommended when the countenance is livid, the lips swollen, and the eyes protrud- ing ; but probably, if performed, no blood would flow. When symptoms of recovery make their ap- pearance the person is to be placed in a warm bed, the windows of the room being opened. A spoonful of generous wine may be given from time to time. For some time he ought not to be left to himself. SUFFOLK DUMPLINGS. Make a light dough with yeast as-if for bread, using milk instead of water, and adding thereto a little salt: let it rise an hour before the fire. Twenty minutes previously to serving get ready a stewpan of boiling water, and make the dough into balls, each the size of an egg; let them boil twenty minutes, and to judge when done enough stick a fork into one, and if the prongs come out clear take them up. They should be eaten with meat, sugar and butter, or salt. SUGAR. At present almost the whole of our sugar is produced in the East and West Indies. The plant from which it is produced is the Saccharum officinarum, or sugar-cane. Other plants, indeed, contain it, but not in such abundance. In North America, however, it is extracted from the Acer saccharinum, or sugar maple, but in too small quantity for exporta- tion. During the war between Bonaparte and Great Britain the extraction of sugar from the beet- root was introduced into France. This manu- facture still continues. In the year 1827 the quantity of beet sugar made in France was 2,650,000 lbs. The method of making sugar practised in Hindostan is exceedingly simple, and requires little or no expensive apparatus. The soil chosen is a rich vegetable mould, in such a situation that it can be easily watered from the river. About the end of May, when the soil is reduced to the state of soft mud either by rain or artificial watei'ing, slips of the cane contain- ing one or two joints are planted in rows about four feet from row to row, and eighteen inches asunder in the rows. When they have grown to the height of two or three inches the earth round them is loosened. In August small trenches are cut through the field to drain off the rain if the season prove too rainy, and to water the plants if the season prove too dry. From three to six canes spring from each slip set. When they are about three feet high the lower leaves of each cane are cai-efully wrapped round it, and then the whole belonging to each slip are tied to a strong bamboo, eight or ten feet high, stuck into the earth in the middle of them. They ai'e cut in January or February, about nine months after the time of planting. They have now reached the height of eight or ten feet, and the naked cane is from an inch to an inch and a quarter in diameter. They have not flowered. When this happens the juice loses much of its sweetness. The newly cut canes are put through the rollers of a mill, and their juice collected into large iron boilers, where it is boiled down smartly to a proper con- sistence, the scum being carelessly taken off. The fire is then withdrawn, and the liquid by cooling becomes thick. It is then stirred about with sticks till it begins to take the form of sugar, when it is put in mats made of the leaves of the palmira tree [Borassus flabellifonnis), and the stirring continued till it is cold. This pro- cess yields a raxo or pondered sugar; but it is clammy, and apt to attract moisture from the