SAL I! 4at ]: it out of tlie belly part iii tne direction a ^•liicli is tlie fattest; aud for those who prefer the most fleshy cut it from the back in the line c d. Salmon with small heads, aud thick in the neck. SALMON : To Choose. This fish is chiefly confined to the northern climates; but in all parts of Europe where it is found the size is nearly the same, from 20 lbs. to 40 lbs. It abounds with volatile salt and oily particles, which render it nutritive, strengthening, and invigorating; but if eaten too freely it occa- - sions indigestion. Salmon should be kept a short time before it is dressed, and it is commonly better in the London market than jn those parts where it is first caught, The Severn and Thames salmon are accounted the best at Billingsgate. The prime season is from April to June. When raw the flesh, but parti- cularly the gills, is of a fine red colour, the eyes and scales are bright, and the entire fish is stiff. Those with small heads and thick necks are reckoned the best. Pickled salmon to be good must have the scales stiff and shining, the flesh oily to the touch, and parting into flakes ■without breaking. Devoid of these qualities it is unwholesome. SALMON, BAKED. Cut a nice piece of salmon into slices about an inch thick, and make a forcemeat as follows Take equal quantities of the flesh of salmon and eel, with a few mush- rooms; season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and cloves, and beat the whole together till very fine, (Boil the crumb of a small roll in some milk, beat with it four eggs till it is thick, let it cool, and bind the whole together with four raw eggs. Take the skin from the salmon, and put the slices in a dish; cover each slice with the force- meat, pour melted butter over them, and then Strew bread crumbs all over; lay a crust round the dish, and place oysters all round ; put it in the oven, and let it bake till of a fine brown colour; then take it out, pour over it a little melted butter with some red wine boiled in it, and the juice of a lemon, SALMON, BOILED (Aberdeen way). When the water is hot put salt into it, and stir it well; taste it, and if strong enough to force you to cast it from your mouth it will do. When the water boils put in the fish; as soon as it boils ^igam give it twenty minutes for a salmon, and sixteen for a grilse. When salmon is cut iw slices an inch thick let them boil ten minutes| Serve with a sauce tureen of the liquor the fish? was boiled in. SALMON, BOILED (Berwick way). The tail of the salmon is first cut off near and below the last fin ; the fish is next cut up the back, keeping the bone on one side, and then cut up into pieces of ^ lb. each, the blood well washed out of the fish in cold water, but the scales not to be removed. A pickle to be made of salt and water strong enough to bear an egg, and when boiling the fish to be put in, and boiled very quickly for fifteen minutes. During the boiling the scum to be taken off carefully as soon as it rises. Sauces—lobster, melted butter, and anchovy. The hardest water is preferable for boiling salmon. SALMON, BOILED (Scotch way). When a salmon is to be cooked where it can be newly taken, the pot is kept ready boiling with salt and vinegar, that no time may be lost in cooking it, as it is put in the moment it is taken. As hardly any one who is accustomed to eat salmon done in that^'ay will eat any other, so, if the nets are drawn early in the morning, the fish is boiled immediately, and is eaten cold with oil and vinegar. In Scotland the general practice is to eat hot and cold salmon with vinegar alone, and at good tables an Englishman might find it, to his astonishment, with no other sauce. SALMON, BOILED (in Wine). Season with pepper and salt some slices of bacon cut thin, and l|lb, of beef; put these into a deep stewpan, then a fine piece of fresh salmon cut out of the middle, then pour in just as much water as will cover it, and let it simmer over a gentle fire till the salmon is almost done; then pour the water away, and put in two quarts of white wine, with an onion cut in slices, and some thyme and sweet marjoram picked from th^ stalks; let them stew gently, and while they are doing cut a sweetbread into thin slices; then cut the slices across, and stew them in a sauce- pan in some rich gravy. When they are done enough add a quarter of a pint of essence of ham, take up the salmon, lay it on a dish, and serve it with the sweetbread, and its sauce poured over. SALMON, BP-OILED. Season some slices of salmon, cut about an inch in thickness, with pepper and salt; wrap each slice in half a sheet of white paper well buttered, twist the end of the paper, and broil the slices over a slow fire for six or eight minutes. Serve in the paper with anchovy sauce. SALMON, COLLARED. Split such a part of the fish as will be sufficient to make a hand- some roll; wash and wipe it; then rub it well inside and out; season it very highly with