[ 374 J QUI QUE bismuth, and lead, of each 1 part; or, tin, 100 parts; antimony, 8 do.; copper, 4 do.; bismuth, 1 do.—(Cooley's Dictionary.) QUENELLES. Prepare and. beat in a mortar the white of a coolved fowl till it can be rubbed through a quenelle cullender with the back of a wooden spoon; take an equal quantity of panada and veal udder or butter, and beat them all separately ; measure the quantities, and beat them together; put in three whole eggs and three yolks one after another, dropping in a little water between; season with salt and nutmeg, gather it together, test it, and if not firm enough add what entire eggs may be necessary. When it is ready whip the three whites that were left out, and add, breaking the yolks as little as possible ; form the farce into quenelles of an egg shape in different-sized spoons, which must be dipped in water, and slip them from a spoon into a buttered saucepan. When they are finished cover them with boiling soup, and let them swim in it without touching one another; let them simmer, turn, drain upon a cloth, and garnish with them according to the size of the dish. If they are for a vol au vent they must be formed in table-spoons. Quenelles may be made of any meat, as veal, fowl, game, fish, fruit, or vegetables. QUICK BISCUITS. Rub a table-spoonful of lard into a quart of flour, and mix in two tea- spoonsful of finely powdered cream of tartar, with a tea-spoonful of salt; put a tea-spoonful of supercarbonate of soda in a pint of warm milk; work it in, and make the paste of ordi- nary consistence for biscuit or pie crust, adding flour or milk if either is needed; make it out in biscuit form, or roll it about half an inch thick, and cut in shapes. Bake them about twenty minutes. QUICK WAFFLES. Take one pint of milk, and beat into it three eggs, and enough wheat flour to make a thick batter; add a table- spoonful of melted butter, a little salt, and bake them immediately. Some persons add two table-spoonsful of sugar and a little cinnamon ; others dust loaf sugar and cinnamon or nutmeg over each waffle as it is baked. QUICKSILVER. See Mercury. QUILLS. To render these fit for making pens suspend the quills in a copper over water sufficiently high to touch the nibs ; then close it steam-tight, and apply four hours' hard boiling; next withdraw and dry them, and in twenty- four hours cut the nibs and draw out the pith; lastly, rub them with a piece of cloth, and expose them to a moderate heat in an oven or stove. The quills prepared in this way are as hard as bone, without being brittle, and as transparent as glass. This is what is termed Dutchifying quills. QUINCE CAKES. Pare and core half a dozen quinces, and boil them till quite soft; then rub the pulp through a sieve, and strain it; mix this with half a pint of syrup of quinces, the same of syrup of barberries, and \ lb. of fine sugar; boil the whole to casse, and then pour it into small shallow moulds of any shape you please ; let them cool a little, and then dry them in a stove. QUINCE CAKES, TRANSPARENT. Take a quart of syrup of quinces, and half a pint of syrup of barberries; set them on a gentle fire ; boil and skim them well; then add 2^ lbs. of sugar, and keep stirring till it reaches candy height; take it off, and when nearly cold lay it in any form you please on tin plates. Dry them in a stove. QUINCE CREAM. Take four or five ripe quinces, and roast them, but not to soften them ; pare, core, slice them thin, and then boil them slowly in a pint of good cream, with a little ginger. When tolerably thick strain it, add sugar to your taste, and flavour it with rose water. QUINCE JELLY. Quinces for jelly ought not to be quite ripe; they should, however, be of a fine yellow colour. Take off the down which covers them, set them on the fire, quarter, core, and put them into a saucepan, with water enough to cover them; set them on the fire, and when soft lay the pieces on a sieve to drain, pressing them very slightly; strain the liquor, and measure it; clarify and boil to casse an equal quantity of sugar, then take it off, and add the liquor to it, stirring it well. When mixed put it on the fire, still stimng. As soon as the jelly spreads over the spoon, and falls from it like treacle, take it from the fire, and when cold pour it into pots. QUINCE MARMALADE. Gather the fruit when fully ripe, and of a fine yellow; pare, quarter, and core it; put the quinces into a saucepan with a little water, and set them on the fire until they are quite soft; then take them out, and lay them on a sieve to drain ; rub them through, and weigh the pulp ; boil au equal quantity of sugar to petite casse, then add the pulp, and stir them together over the fire until it will fall from the spoon like a jelly. The marmalade is then fit to be put into pots, and when cold cover them closelv. QUINCE PUDDING. Take a sufficient number of ripe quinces to yield ] lb. of pulp, to which put ^ lb. of powder sugar, cinnamon and ginger pounded, of each 2 drachms, and mix them well. Beat up the yolks of eight eggs in a pint of cream; add the quince, &c.; stir the whole together, flour a cloth, tie the pudding in, and boil it. QUINCE, RATAFIA OF. Take a gallon