sou [ 457 ] SPA to suit the palate, as in beef stock. Let these ingi'edients simmer till the meat is nearly tender, but the liquor not discoloured, that it may be fit for white soups ; then add as much of the beef stock as will cover the veal, whidh may be kept simmering half an hour longer. Take off the fat, strain the liquor through a sieve, and keep it for use. SOURNESS IN BEER maybe prevented for a length of time by suspending in it a lump of chalk tied to a string. When beer has become acid the best addition is to stir into it, when in the tumbler, as much bicarbonate of potash as is needed. It forms a salt with the acid much less weakening than that formed by the bi- carbonate of soda. SOUSE FOR BRAWN. Boil a quart of oatmeal, a quarter of a peck of bran, a little rose- mary, some bay leaves, and i lb. of salt, in two gallons and a half of water, for about half an hour ; strain off the liquor, add a little vinegar, and when cold it will be fit for use. To make it stronger, for the longer preservation of the article, add one pint of spirits of wine or of good brandy to six quarts of the liquor, SOY, or SoojiE, is a sauce prepared from the beans of the Soja hispida, a native of Japan., The following is the mode of making the Eng- lish imitation:—Seeds of Dolichos soja (peas or kidney beans may be used for them), one gallon; boil till soft, and add one gallon of bruised wheat; keep in a warm place for twenty-four hours ; then add common salt, one gallon; water, two gallons; put the whole into a stone jar, bung it up for two or three months, shaking it very often, and press out the liquor. The re- siduum may be treated afresh with water and salt for soy of an inferior quality. SPA WATER. The spring which supplies this water is called Pouhon, and is in the centre of the village of Spa, in the principality of Liege. In cold dry weather it appears colourless and clear, but in moist weather the surface of the well becomes turbid, and on the approach of rain a humming noise is heard, which the country people call the music of the spring. This water, when freshly taken out of the well, scarcely sparkles ; but in a few minutes it sepa- rates small air-bubbles, which adhere to the inside of the glass, and increase very copiously when the water is shaken or poured from one glass into another. It has a bright appearance and an agreeable acidulous taste, with a strong chalybeate impression; but it loses these sen- sible qualities on exposure to the air. "When kept in bottles well corked, and covered with cement, it will preserve for a long time its original state nearly unaltered. The contents of a wine pint of Spa water, as ascertained by Bergmann, and reduced to English measure, are the following:— Grains, Oxide of iron . . . "OG Carbonate of lime . . . 1-47 Carbonate of magnesia . . 4:'40 Carbonate of soda . . . I i7 Jhloride of sodium , '173 8-132 The gas given out is entirely carbonic acid, and amounts to about 45 per cent, of the bulk of the water, making 12-79 cubic inches, or about 6J ozs. in every wine pint. Spa water is, therefore, a chalybeate, and a very strongly acidulous water. The quantity of alkaline mat- ter which it contains is, notwithstanding, suffi- cient to make it mix very uniformly with milk, and to give it antacid properties after the carbonic acid has been expelled by the heat of the stomach. The sensible operation of this water is de- cidedly stimulant. When taken in a full draught, particularly in hot weather, or upon an empty stomach, it strikes the nose with a pungent vapour, and occasions a swimming in the head, and a degree of intoxication wliich sometimes continues for half an hour, but docs not debilitate. Although, by its general sti- mulant quality, it promotes every secretion, its most regular determination is to the kidneys and the skin. It is particularly well calculated to afford relief in acrid discbarges from the urinary pas- sages ; in all disorders in females arising from derangement in the menstrual evacuation, and especially in removing sterility when the con- sequence of fluor albus, or relaxation of the uterine system; and in the male sex, in pre- venting involuntary discharge of semen, and the weakness induced by gonorrhoea. In disorders of the alimentary canal, as bilious vomiting, diarrhoea, and dysentery, it proves an excellent auxiliary remedy, particularly in restoring the tone and healthy action of the stomach and bowels. Its diffusive stimulant character ren- ders it improper in all inflammatory complaints. During its use the regular action of the bowels should be maintained by occasional doses of some aperient medicines. The dose of this water is usually about half a pint three or four times a day, increased gradually until some effect is produced on the secretions. After this no further increase is necessary. The course must be continued so long as there are signs of its salutary operation on the disease, and of ultimate success. Some invalids on the spot are in the habit of diluting with this water the wine which forms their common drink. This beverage is found pleasant; and salutary.