[ 424 ] SOU sou ■tamarinclg, ^vater-cresses, scurvy-grass, brook- lime, &c. The use of these, with milk, pot- herbs, new bread, and fresh beer or cyder, will seldom fail to remove a scurvy of this kiud, if taken before it be too far advanced; but to have this effect they must be persisted in for a considerable time. When fresh vegetables can- not be obtained, pickled or preserved ones may be used; and, whei-e these are wanting, recourse must be had to the chemical acids. All the patient's food and drink should in this case be sharpened with cream of tartar, eli.x.ir of vitriol, vinegar, or the muriatic acid. These things, however, will more certainly prevent than cure the scurvy, for which reason seafaring people, especially in long voyages, ought to lay in plenty of them. Cabbages, onions, gooseberries, and many other vegetables may be kept a long time by pickling, preserving, &c.; and when these fail the chemical acids recommended above, which will keep for any length of time, may be used. We have reason to believe, if ships were well ventilated, had got store of fruits, greens, cyder, &c., laid in, and if proper regard were paid to cleanliness and warmth, that sailors would be the most healthy people in the world, and would seldom suffer either from the scurvy or putrid fevers, which are so fatal to that useful class of men, but it is too much the temper of such people to despise all precaution—they will not think of any calamity till it overtakes them, when it is too late to ward off the blow. It must, indeed, be owned that many sailors have it not in their power to make the provision we are speak- ing of; but in this case it is the duty of their employers to make it for them, and no man ought to engage in a long voyage without having these articles secured. In the course of the disease particular symp- toms may arise requiring a separate considera- tion. Pains of the belly are to be relieved by emollients and opiates; oppression at the chest and impeded respiration by blisters, for bleed- ing is never to be used in this disease; con- tractions of the hams and calves of the legs by fomenting the part with warm vinegar and water, and by the application of emollient poultices and frictions; sponginess of the gums and looseness of the teeth by washing the mouth frequently with antiseptic and astringent gargles :—Take infusion of roses, 4 ozs. ; alum in powder, l^oz.; hoi\ej, 1 drachm: mix them for a gargle. Or, take decoction of bark, 6 ozs.; tincture of myrrh, Hoz.; muriatic acid, 12 to 20 drops: make a gargle. Foul ulcers are to be cleansed and healed by washing them with lemon juice, or a tincture consisting of equal parts of the tincture of myrrh, and then dress- ing them with some kind of ointment or a sorrel poultice. In bad cases of ulceration the charcoal or effervescent poultice may probably be serviceable. We have often seen very extraordinary effects in the land scurvy from a milk diet. This pre- paration of nature is a mixture of animal and vegetable properties, which of all others is the most fit for restoring a decayed constitution, and removing that particular acrimony of the hu- mours which seems to constitute the very essence of the scurvy and many other diseases. But people despise this wholesome and nourish- ing food because it is cheap, and devour with greediness flesh and fermented liquors, while milk is only deemed fit for their hogs. The most proper drink in the scurvy is whey or buttermilk. When these cannot be had, sound cyder, perry, or spruce beer may be used. Wort has likewise been found to be a proper drink in the scurvy, and may be used at sea, as malt will keep during the longest voyage. A decoction of the tops of the spruce fir is like- wise proper. It may be drunk in the quantity of an English pint twice a day. Tar water may be used for the same purpose, or decoctions of any of the mild mucilaginous vegetables, as sarsaparilla, marsh-mallow roots, &c. Infusions of the bitter plants, as ground ivy, the lesser centaury, marsh trefoil, &c., are likewise bene- ficial. We have seen the peasants in some parts of Britain express the juice of the last-mentioned plant, and drink it with good effect in those foul scorbutic eruptions with which they are often troubled in the spring season. Harrowgate water is certainly an excellent tnedicine in the land scurvy. We have often seen patients who had been reduced to the most deplorable condition by this disease greatly relieved by drinking the sulphur water, and bathing in it. The chalybeate water may also be used with advantage, especially with a view to brace the stomach after drinking the sulphur water, which, though it sharpens the appetite, never fails to weaken the powers of digestion. A slight degree of scurvy may be carried off by frequently sucking a little of the juice of a bitter orange or a lemon. When the disease affects the gums only, this practice, if continued for some time, will generally carry it off. We would, however, recommend the bitter orange as greatly preferable to lemon: it seems to be as good a medicine, and is not nearly so hurtful to the stomach, P<;rhaps our own sorrel may be little inferior to either of them. All kinds of vegetables are good in the scurvy, and ought to be eaten very plentifully, as spinach, lettuce, parsley, celery, endive, radish, dandelion, &c. It is amazing to see how soon fresh vegetables in the spring cure the bruto animals of any scab or foulness which is upon