VEG VEG [ 533 J to put them into cold spring water for some time before they are dressed. To boil them in soft water will best preserve the colour of such as are green: if you have only hard water put to it a tea-spoonful of carbonate of potash. Take care to wash and cleanse them thoroughly from the dust, dirt, and insects : this requires great attention. Pick off all the outside leaves, trim them nicely, and if not quite fresh gathered, and they have become flaccid, it is absolutely necessary to restore their crispness before cook- ing them, or they will be tough and unpleasant. Lay them in a pan of clean water, with a handful of salt in it, for half an hour before you dress them. They should always be boiled in a saucepan by themselves, and have plenty of water. If meat is boiled with them in the same pot they will spoil the look and taste of each other. If you wish to have vegetables delicately clean, put on your pot, make it boil, put a little salt in it, and skim it perfectly clean before you put in the greens, &c., which should not be put in till the water boils briskly: the quicker they boil the greener they will be. When the vegetables sink they are generally done enough, if the water has been kept gently boiling. Take them up immediately, or they will lose their colour and goodness. Drain the water from them thoroughly before you send them to table. This branch of cookery requires vigilant attention. If vegetables are a minute or two too long over the fire they lose all their beauty and flavour. If not boiled thoi'oughly tender they are tremendously indigestible, and much more troublesome during their residence in the stomach than underdone meats. Once for all, take care your vegetables are fresh; for, as the fishmonger often sins for the cook, so the cook gets undeservedly blamed instead of the green- grocer. Strong-scented vegetables should be kept apai't. Leeks or celery laid among cauliflowers, &c., will quickly spoil them. Succulent vege- tables are best preserved in a cool, shady, and damp place. When vegetables are quite fresh gathered they will not require so much boiling, by at least a third of the time, as when they have been gathered the usual time of those that are brought to public markets. They are always best when newly gathered, and should be brought in from the garden early in the morning ; they will then have a fragrant fresh- ness, which they lose by keeping. They must be cleaned with the greatest care, the outside leaves of every description of greens removed, and they and all other vegetables, more parti- cularly when not recently gathered, should be laid for several hours in cold water, and well shaken to throw out the insects. A tea-spoonful of salt should always be put into the water in which the}' are to be boiled, and if it is hard a tea-spoonful of salt of tartar or potash may be added to preserve the green colour of the vege- tables. All vegetables should be boiled quickly, and, with the exception of spinach, in an open vessel, skimming them carefully. Kitchen greens should be kept in a cool and shady place. Potatoes, carrots, turnips, and beet-root should be stored up without being cleaned from the earth adhering to them, in layers of sand, or laid in heaps, and covered with earth and straw. Parsnips and skirrets, not being injured by the frost, are generally left in the ground, and taken up as wanted. Onions are stored in a warm dry place, never in a cellar; they are sometimes strung in bunches, and suspended from the roof; and more efl"ectually to prevent them from growing, some people select the finest bulbs, and singe the roots with a hot iron. Herbs of all sorts should be gathered when in flower, and on a dry day, and, being well cleaned from dust and dirt, they are tied up in small bunches, and dried before the fire in a Dutch oven. They may be kept in paper bags, labelled ; or rubbed to a powder, sifted, and put into bottles. VEGETABLES, DISH OF. Wash a dish with the white of a raw egg, then make four divisions in it with fried bread, and put alter- nately into each division the following vegetables: spinach, turnips, potatoes, sliced carrots, and small onions, or cauliflower, or heads of broccoli, all previously stewed in a little cullis. When put into the dish let as much of the essence as possible adhere to them. You may, if you please, instead of making the divisions of fried bread, make them of mashed potatoes and yolks of eggs mixed together, and put on the dish in as many divisions as you please, afterwards to be baked till of a nice colour, and served to table with any kind of stewed vegetables you may approve. VEGETABLES IN A MOULD. Line the insides of an oval moifld with rashers of bacon ; then set upright alternately slips of turnips, carrots, pickled cucumbers, celery, and asparagus heads; lay a forcemeat at the bottom of the mould, and round the inside of the vegetables; fill the centre with stewed ox-tails, with the bones taken out, or with small pieces of mutton or veal passed with sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and lemon juice; cover with forcemeat, wash it over with egg, and bake it. When it is to be served turn it gently out of the mould upon a dish, take off the bacon, make a little hole at the top, and pour in some good cullis.