[ 463 ] STO STO %veight is a good criterion, and wetting it and passing over the finger will enable you to judge whether cotton is mixed up with the silk. To clean white silk stockings place them for about ten minutes in boiling soapy water; by that time it will have become sufficiently cool to admit of their being thoroughly washed ; rinse them in cold spring watei*, in which a few drops of liquid blue have been poured, and then dry them. Persons who are in the habit of frequently wash- ing silk stockings provide themselves with a model of a leg in wood, on which the stockings are drawn when dry, and rubbed briskly with a piece of flannel to give them the necessary lustre. The above process being comj^leted, they are to be bleached as follows:—Suspend them on a line about six feet from the floor in a closet, or small room (without a chimney), the window and door of which must close exactly. Should there be any crevices they must be care- fully stopped. Place in one corner of the apart- ment an iroii'vessel tilled with burning coals, put a few pieces of sulphur broken in small bits into an earthen pan, and place it on the coals. Hasten from the room, and close the door. The sulphur now melts, takes fire slightly, and is converted into sulphuric acid gas, which, acting on the silk, renders it beautifully white. It is impossible to state the exact quantity of sulphur to be employed, as it depends on the size of the room. If only a few things are to be bleached, such as handkerchiefs or stockings, they may be suspended in a chest which closes well, the coals and sulphur being placed in a corner of the chest, which is, of course, to be kept well closed while the sulphur is in a state of combustion. In whatever manner the bleach- ing is perfornfied care must be taken to inhale tlie suffocating vapour of the sulphur as little as possible. The texture of those beautiful French thread stockings and gloves, which have obtained the supremacy over those of silk, is so delicate that peculiar cai'e is requisite in the method of wash- ing them. The following is the most approved :— A lather of cold water is to be made in a sauce- pan, the stockings ai'e to be well soaped, and placed in it over the fire. When they have boiled take them out, and having made a fresh cold lather, let them again boil. If this simple pi'ocess be well performed the stockings and gloves, on being a second time removed, will require little more than rinsing. Thus the fabric is uninjured by rubbing—a bad plan, that desti'oys our stockings much more rapidly than we can wear them out. When silk stockings have been nicely washed and coloured, instead of mangling they should be stretched on a hoard, and rubbed on the right side with clean VOL. II. flannel till dry. When mangled they often have a watered appearance. STOMACH-ACHE. See Colic. STONE. See Gravel. STONE PAVEMENT. To clean this, whether in halls or staircases, boil in two quarts of water two cakes of pipe-clay, two table- spoonsful of carbonate of lime, and half a pint each of size and blue-stone water. Having washed the stones with water, and wiped them dry, rub them over with a flannel slightly wetted W'ith this mixture. When dry rub them with a dry flannel and a brush until they present the desired appearance. STOOPING. The habit of stooping is easily got in the youth of both sexes by various means, but we will endeavour to point out an easy and safe method of cure without stopping to enume- rate the causes. That we may be more clearly understood, it may be necessary to premise that the part of the back formed by the ribs is not a flat, but rather a round surface; and, as the shoulder- blades rest on this, they would fall either for- wards or towards the spine were there not some means of keeping them in a proper position. They are most disposed to fall forwards, for, although the collar-bones appear to hold them back, these bones are united to the breast-bone by a movable joint; and, as the weight of the arms operates principally on the anteiior angles of the shoulder-blades, both the collar-bones and the shoulders would fall forwards were it not for the action of several strong muscles which pass from the spine to the shoulder-blade. But these muscles may be destroyed by any contrivance which supersedes their use, which the back- board most certainly does ; for if the shoulder- blades be brought close to the spine by the straps of the collar, and kept constantly so, there can be no use for the muscles which ought to bind them. They must, from want of exercise, waste and become useless, or nearly so, while those on the fore part of the chest, being excited to re- sistance, will increase in power, and whenever the collar is removed will drag the shoulders forward, while the relaxed muscles behind will give way in an equal degree, having been so reduced in tension by want of exercise that they become inert' and yielding. We should therefore recommend, instead of persons who stoop putting on a back-board and bracing back the shoulders, thereby increasing the evil, that they should endeavour to increase the power of the muscles behind by resistance; and we cannot illustrate our meaning better, perhaps, than by suggesting the practice of carrying a weight in front, suspended by a strap from the back of the neck, in the manner of the Turkish Jews who frequent the streets of London, and 2 H