PAP PAP [ 296 ] en suite. It gives an air of unpretending simplicity to the cottage and small residence ; Las a very neat, snug, uncommon appearance ; and is, we think, more pleasiug to the eye, when doors are thrown open, than a succession of strong contrasts in a small space. In small rooms papers of small patterns are most suitable: for a general colour some quiet shade of green is agreeable, and a running, boweiy kiud of pattern is pretty and unostentatious. Large, rambling, staring patterns should be avoided, indeed, however large the rooms may be; and strong, powerful discords in colours are far from being pleasing in their effect, or an evi- dence of good taste in their selection. Rich, warm colours look best in dining-rooms ; light, dressy papers in drawing-rooms ; but in small residences, where the second apartment is the family sitting-room, the paper should be selected of a simple, quiet pattern, sufficiently light to require no extra candles, and yet not so gay as might be appropriate in a room designed chiefly for company. The colour of a room has much influence on the artificial light. A pair of candles that give pleasant light in one apartment will be insuffi- cient in another of a similar size, yet a different paper; consequently, it is always advisable to see papers for rooms by candlelight, as well as by daylight, before a selection is made. Let young housekeepers attend to this. Pictures look to great advantage on walls painted pale green, and light up beautifully. No feeling of coldness is conveyed by this want of colour : in winter and in summer the coolness is de- lightful, A library, or any room containing books, is more difficult to light than others. The dark- ness of the binding has a sombre effect, and one pair of candles in the centre look very dim. Oak panelling, so beautiful in old houses, can scarcely be desirable on this account; but the delicate light oak paint, which has almost the appearance of satin-wood when well executed, is admirably adapted for doors, window shutters, beams, &c., and would also be cheerful and elegant for the panelling of rooms. The high skirting boards of former days have long been exploded, and the paper of rooms extends nearly to the floor. If hung with care and skill no finish will be required above the footboard, and round the doors, windows, &c., which of course diminishes the expense of deco- rating the room. Papers are now so cheap that we may renew them at a trifling cost when soiled ; and it is a good plan to secure an extra roll or two of any paper we may choose, in case of accident, to repair a blemish. Extremely good papers, of neat and even elegant patterns, may be bought at twopence per yard, which is a great consideration for people of small means who are about to furnish a house. We have seen bedrooms hung with paper at one penny per yard, which looked quite as well on the walls as that at a higher price : this enables us to have always clean and neat-looking rooms, so essential to the appearance of a gentleman's residence. We have known ladies succeed extremely well in papering rooms themselves. The price of the paper is trifling, but it mounts up when a workman is employed. A little neatness and care are the chief requisites. As long a board as possible is required, on which to stretch the lengths of paper for pasting. Tables or boards can be placed together so as to obtain the proper length as nearly as we can. The old paper must be stripped off, and the walls of the room washed with size, and allowed to dry, before the papering process begins. A paste brush, a large pan of paste, and a large pair of scissors, are the implements required. Paper- hangers' paste is made of the following mate- rials :—8 lbs. of flour, seven quarts of water, I oz. of alum, and 1 oz. of resin finely powdered. Mix the flour with some of the water whilst cold, breaking all the lumps, and beating it quite fine. Have the remainder of the water boiling, and the alum dissolved in it; then pour in the flour and water, add the resin, keep it stirred, and let it hoil for a few minutes. The lengths of paper must be cut- as correctly as pos- sible, and, when spread with paste, they must be held even with the top of the room, and allowed to fall into the proper position with the length that has been previously laid on, before they are fixed and pressed against the wall. For this purpose a pair of steps or a table must be used to raise the fair paper-hanger to the proper height. Of course, it is only small rooms and passages that can be thus done by a lady's hand ; but it is so useful sometimes to be able to achieve these little domestic affairs, that it is quite within our province to know how to do them if they ought to be done. A lady should never be " above" (as it is called) doing any- thing that is not sinful, or unwomanly, or mean. Paper in imitation of oak, either dark or light, has a very good effect in halls and passages, and even in rooms. It is cool, and clean, and neat, and, when good of its kind, almost deceives the eye. The walls of halls and dining-rooms are frequently painted: this is, of course, most durable, if care is taken to avoid scratches or chippings. Nothing looks worse than walls broken by the sharp corners of furniture or boxes, which careless persons are very apt to strike against them when moving them in a room, or up and down stairs. Painted walls can always be cleaned by washing with soap and water, and drying with clean cloths, which makes thera