i m I ■SAN susceptible of a high polish, is almost inodorous, and its taste is slightly bitter. It is esteemed by the native physicians as refreshing and sedative, and is administered in remittent fevers and diseases of the urinary passages. The yellow or citron sandal wood is from S. Frey- cinetianum, a native of the Sandwich, Mar- quesas, and Feejee Islands, and near the head of Spencer's Gulf, in Australia. This is the wood so highly esteemed in the East for its fine perfume and valuable timber. It is formed into all kinds of fancy furniture, boxes, fans, and other articles ; that which is of a pale colour they burn iu their temples as incense, and in private apartments , and use long, thin slips of the wood, inserted in a mixture of rice paste and sawdust, as candles, which emit a pleasing fragrance. The delightful odour of the wood is due to the presence of an essential oil, heavier than water, readily congealed, and having a peculiar sweet smell. It is employed by perfumers, both in Europe and India, for adul- terating attar of roses. The powder of the wood, rubbed on the skin, allays the irritation occasioned by mosquito bites. SANDARACH. This resin is obtained from a coniferous tree, called Callitris guadrivalvis, allied to the Arbor-vitae. The tree grows iu Morocco, Barbary, and Arabia, and attains the height of fifteen or twenty feet. The resin exudes from the tree spontaneously during the heats ; it has the odour and taste of pine resin, and a slightly acrid taste ; it melts with heat, diffusing a strong balsamic odour, and easily inflames. It was formerly given as a medicine internally, and it enters into the composition of various ointments and plasters. It is princi- pally used in making varnish, and sometimes employed in incense; and it also constitutes the pounce used after writing has been erased to prevent the ink from running. SANDERS WOOD Pterocarpus santalinus furnishes the 7'ed sunders wood of commerce. The tree is a native of India, inhabiting the mountains of Coromandel and Ceylon, where it attains the height of upwards of sixty feet. The wood is dark red, with black veins, heavy, close- grained, capable of receiving a good polish, and sinking in water. It is only the old wood which is employed as a dye, young wood containing very little colouring matter; and the principle of this colouring matter has been called santalin. Red Sanders is very little used in this countiy as a dye stuff, but apothecaries often employ it to give a red colour to tinctures. In India it is used for dyeing silk and cotton; the Arabs use it as an astringent; and in this country it is frequently employed as the basis of various dentifrice mixtures. SANDWICHES : To Make. These are either made of'meat or poultry, potted lobsters or shrimps, grated tongue, anchovy, sausage meat, slices of ham, or beef. The last is most common, and must be laid between two slices of bread thin and neatly, without gristle or skin. SARDINES. Take two dozen fresh sar- dines, dry them thoroughly, flour, and fry them in clarified butter. They are also salted and eaten in the same manner as anchovies, for which they are frequently used as substitutes. SARSAPARILLA is the root of a Smilax, but of which of the species is uncertain. It comes from the West Indies and South America, This drug has a glutinous, somewhat bitter, and agreeable taste, but is totally devoid of smell. It is highly esteemed on account of its demul- cent and farinaceous qualities, and has been suc- cessfully administered in the different forms of decoction, extract, and powder, iu cases of carious and ill-disposed cancers, or other sores. It is taken in dosSs of I oz. of the root boiled in half a pint of water till the third part be evaporated; or ^ drachm of the extract. In either of these forms it acts by the skin, as well as by the urinary passages, and is a mild, though inert remedy, on which account it is generally com* bined with the sassafras, guaiacum, liquorice,- and other substances, iu a decoction of the woods. - SASSAFRAS is the wood and bark of a tree closely allied to the laurel, and now called by* botanists Sassafras officinale. Sassafras wood, root, and bark have a fra- grant odour and a sweetish aromatic taste. Their medical qualities depend on an essential oil, which may be obtained by distilling the chips or the bark in water. The bark is consi- derably more powerful than either the wood or, root. Water extracts the virtues of sassafras partially, alcohol completely. Sassafras was formerly in considerablef estimation in a variety of complaints, but it has long ceased to be considered of much efficacy by the faculty. Some persons, however, continue to drink sassafras tea as a medicine, with only, perhaps, fancied benefit. The oil, as a warm aromatic and stimulant, may be occasionally useful in flatulence. The dose is from 2 to 10 drops on sugar. Sassafras tree, under the name of saloop, may still be found selling in the London streets. - SATIN. See Scouring. SAUCE ALLEMANDB. To a few slices of ham and a few trimmings of poultry add three or four shallots, a clove of garlic, a bay leaf, a little tai'ragon, and a few spoonsful of gravy Stock; set the stewpan on the fire to simmer gently for half an hour, then put in as much cullis as you will want sauce, and when it has boiled a few minutes-, squeeze into it a Seville