INF INF [ 74 ] gular masses -whicli project beyond the edges of the wound, it becomes necessary to destroy them by touching them with lunar caustic, or dressing them with the ointment of the red oxide of mercury, or by what is frequently of the same benefit, using a tight bandage. Although it has been customary to treat in- flammation terminating in suppuration in the manner just detailed, still, in the management of abscesses, it has lately been recommended, after the matter is evacuated, to bring the lips of the wound in contact by strips of adhesive plaster, then to apply a compress of two or three folds of soft linen, and to secure it there by means of a roller or bandage of sufficient length, somewhat tightly applied. These dress- ings, at the same time, are to be kept con- stantly moistened with Goulard's lotion. By proceeding in this manner instead of the usual way the external air is effectually excluded; adhe- sion and obliteration of the sac will certainly be obtained ; the health of the patient will not be at all injured either by the quantity or the quality of the subsequent discharge, as the true skin approximates closely; and when the cure is effected there is no waste of cutaneous substance, which frequently renders the parts weaker than they were before ; there will be no unseemly or puckered scars, so often observed on the site of large abscesses ; and lastly, though not least, the curative process which, by the other means, might occupy several weeks, will, by this method, be effected in a few days. The objects, then, which are principally to be attended to in the treatment of phlegmonous or local inflammation are, firstlj', to endeavour to terminate it, by the means pointed out, in resolu- tion ; secondly, where resolution fails, to hasten the suppurative process by promoting the secre- tion of a healthy pus, which is of the consistence of cream, and nearly the same colour, by means of poultices, fomentations, &c.; granulation and cicatrisation, under proper management, will then follow, and a cure be effected. When gangrene is likely to ensue, from weakness occasioned by excessive discharges, the constitution must be supported with wine, bark, opium, and good living. Internal gan- grene, when it once takes place, is always fatal: it is only when it occurs externally that medi- cine can be of service, and even then it often fails. INFLUENZA is a catarrh or cold, but attended with great prostration of strength and some other special symptoms. The symptoms of influenza are in general more severe than those of the common catarrh. " The attack is remarkably sudden, and at first attended with considerable debility. Only a few minutes have often interposed between the feelings of high health and extreme weakness. The head, especially the forehead over the eyes, is particu- larly loaded; all exertion is painful; and a tickling of the nose, with frequent and violent sneezing, often suddenly comes on. A load, rather than pain, in the chest is very troublesome, cough is severe and dry, the tongue parched, and thirst often intense. A sore throat is not a common symptom, yet a bright efflorescence is sometimes observed on it. The pulse is low and frequent, seldom hard, and the skin constantly dry. In the progress of the complaint the breast is sometimes more affected, and pleuritic pains are observed in the young and robust. As the skin becomes softer the tickling acrid mucus from the nose becomes thicker, and the head more free; but considerable debility remains, often for several mouths." Though the fever at first is high, on its subsidence alarming debility and typhoid symptoms frequently come on, and in many cases the patient is suddenly and unexpectedly carried off. In more favour- able circumstances the inflammatory stage quickly passes off; but the cough and other symptoms long continue troublesome, and on any exposure to cold are very ready to return. In an epidemic so widely spreading it is to be expected that it will occur in many young persons disposed to pulmonary consumption, and by its effects on the tubercles in the lungs give rise to suppuration in them. The middle-aged, the strong, and robust are, in general, soonest affected, and suffer most severely. Children at the breast generally escape, nor do any seem to suffer within the first year. All beyond early infancy are indis- criminately attacked. The influenza is very often fatal to elderly people. Though the pain of the side and difficulty of breathing are very urgent, and may seem to call loudly for bleeding, yet there is much doubt about the propriety of this measure in the influenza. In the inflammatory stage in young and vigorous subjects it may be necessary for once; but this stage is soon over, and that of debility com- mences ; and we must take care not to bleed at too late a period, lest we induce a degree of debility from which the patient will not recover. The pains in the side are better relieved by a blister, and the bowels are to be kept easy ; but the system is not to be weakened by strong purgatives. Emetics are often of great service in promoting expectoration and relieving the symptoms; but we must be on our guard that the vomiting does not go too far, and induce dangerous weakness. Ipecacuanha is one of the best and safest emetics we can employ. It may be given in small doses so as to act as an expectorant; and with the same intention gum ammoniacum and squill may be given. The squill pill of the Edinburgh Pharmacopoeia is