SPR [46 / lie made use of, to prevent effusion from talting place. PluDgiug the sprained limb also into the coldest water that can be procured, as soon after the accident as possible, is often attended with the best effects, and may be advised as the first step, till one or other of the preceding articles can be procured for a fomentation. With the second intention a number of leeches may be applied to the swelled part, and repeated again the next morning if the pain and in- flammation do not readily give way. At night a cold poultice of linseed meal and vinegar, where there is much pain and tension, may be applied, and an opiate (1 grain of opium) given at bedtime. Eest is also indispensable, and the limb should never be kept in a pendent position. Should any weakness remain from the effects of the accident, pumping cold water every morning, and wearing a calico bandage for a length of time to support the part, will be attended with beneficial effects. Soap liniment (opodeldoc) will be a useful anodyne and discutient applica- tion. See Embkocation. SPRATS are chosen by the same rules as herrings, and are dressed in the same manner, SPRUCE BEER (1). Pour eight gallons of cold water into a barrel, and then add the same quantity of boiling water, with 12 lbs. of molasses and about | lb. of essence of spruce. On its be- coming cooler put in half a pint of good ale yeast; stir the whole well, or roll the barrel about, and then leave it with the bung out for two or three days, after which bottle the liquor and wire the corks for use. If spruce beer is made from the branches or cones they must be boiled two hours, after which the liquor should be strained into a barrel, and the molasses and the yeast added as already directed. Spruce beer should be bottled in stone, and drunk immediately on being opened. SPRUCE BEER (2). For a cask of six gallons mix \ lb. of the essence of spruce, 7 lbs. of loaf sugar made into a clarified syrup, and about one gallon and a half of hot water. When sufficiently stirred and incorporated put it into the cask, and fill it nearly up with cold water; then add about a quarter of a pint of good yeast, shake the vessel well, and let it work three or four days, after which bung it up. In a few days it may be bottled off, and in about a week more it will be fit for use. To give it transparency add 1 oz. of isinglass, first dis- solved in some of the liquor or cyder. In pro- portion to the coldn_ess of the weather the quantity of yeast should be increased. In warm weather little yeast is required. SPRUCE BEER (3). Allow ] oz of hops and a spoonful of ginger to a gallon of water. When well boiled strain it, and put in a pint of niolastiC.?, and ^ oz. or less of the essence of ] SQU spruce. When cool add a tea-cupful of yeast, put it into a clean tight cask, let it ferment for a day or two, and then bottle for use. You can boil the sprigs of spruce fir in the room of the essence. SPUNK. See Boletus Tindeb. SQUAB PIE, See Devokshire Squash Pie and Pie, Squab. SQUASH. See Gourd and Pumpkin. SQUILL {Scilla maritima). The officinal squill, or sea onion, is a native of Spain, Sicily, Syria, and Barbary, and flowers in April and May. The bulbs are large, sometimes nearly the size of the human head, and of a pear shape. They are brought to this country generally from the Levant, and may be preserved fresh for some time in sand ; but, as they are apt to spoil, they are best preserved for medicinal use in a dried state by cutting them in segments, and exposing them to the heat of a moderate fire The squill bulb is inodorous, but its taste is bitter, nauseous, and acrid; and, when much handled, it inflames and ulcerates the skin. In small doses it is expectorant and diuretic, in larger doses erbetic and purgative. From its stimulant properties it cannot be given with propriety in pulmonary inflammation until the inflammatory stage is past, after which it proves useful in relieving the difficulty of breathing. It is usefully combined with nitre, tartai-ised antimony, or ipecacuanha, and in asthma and difficulty of breathing without fever, combined with ammoniacum, it is often an efficacious remedy. In dropsy, conjoined with a mercurial and opium, it is also advantageous. It is a very uncertain emetic. The dose of the dried bulb in powder (which should be kept in a closely stopped bottle, as it rapidly attracts moisture from the air) is at first 1 grain, which may be given in the form of a pill, with soap, morning and evening, or every six hours, gradually increasing the dose to 5 or 6 grains, or until some degree of nausea is induced, and its expectorant or diuretic effect obtained. OxYMEL OF Squills. Take of honey l^lb.; vinegar of squills, 1 pint. Boil in a glass vessel over a gentle fire to a proper consistence. The dose, as an expectorant in asthma and obstinate coughs, is from J fluid drachm to 2 fluid drachms in some aromatic water, such as cinnamon. In larger doses it is given to excite vomiting, and at the same time clear the chest, as in hooping cough. It is said also to be useful for such purpose in croup. Tincture of Squills. Take of the fresh squill root dried, 2 ozs.; proof spirit, 1 pint. Macerate for fourteen days, and filter. This is given for the same complaint as the preceding preparation. The dose is from lu to jJO