[ 92 ] JEL JEL strychnia, and surgical operations may also be considered as the morbid agents. Spasmodic affection may be known from the convulsive by the muscles in the former re- maining long in a state of rigid contraction, whereas in the latter they are alternately, though involuntarily contracted and relaxed. Few survive the third day of this disease unless it comes on gradually. When thia is the case, and the person afflicted gets over nine or ten days, there will be some hopes of recovery. The danger is proportioned to the suddenness and urgency of the attack. Should the termi- nation prove fatal convulsions usually close the scene. On dissection nothing preternatural is in general found in these complaints. When this affection is occasioned by a punc- ture or small wound it may be reasonably supposed to originate from the partial division of a nerve. A free enlargement of the wound should, therefore, instantly be made. As arising from local irritation it will, if prac- ticable, be also expedient to cut off the nervous communication with the brain. During the urgent stage the ordinary ex- citing powers should have an active influence. Hartshorn, too, may be applied to the nose. The temples may also be fomented with it. If the fit be of long continuance it may be used as an embrocation to the neck and spine. Opiate clysters should be injected. Volatiles, opiates, warm bathing, and blisters are also proper. In the convalescent state recourse may be had to coffee, jellies, broth, gruel, wine, aiid those more solid articles of animal and vegetable substances which constitute nutritious diet. The drink may be wine and water, or other fermented liquor. Occasionally it should be ■wine in its unmixed state, or spirit sufficiently weakened with water. The temperature should be mild. An atmosphere abounding with a suit- able portion of vital air will be required, and, when the strength will admit, walking, riding, or exercise in the open air. Light and sound, together with those other powers which in- fluence the organs of sense, must be suitably regulated. The energy of the mind should be supported. Tonic medicines are also useful. JELLIES OF FRUITS. &e Apple, Bae- BEERY, CpERRY, CuERANT, DaMSON, GrAPE, Orange, Peach, Quince, Raspberry, Straw- BEEEY, and Preserving. JELLY: To Keep. Take a leg of beef and two shins cut in pieces, one or two old cocks or hens' skinned, and two calves' feet; put all these into ten quarts of water, and boil them down to a strong jelly; skim it well, add some salt, and ryu it through a jelly bag till it is clear. JELLY, ALE OR PORTER. For a large shape put to the prepai'ed stock or jelly more than half a bottle of strong ale or porter, 1 lb. of loaf sugar, the peel of one and the juice of four large lemons, a stick of cinnamon, and the beaten whites of eight eggs. Put the whole into a saucepan, and stir it gently; let it boil for fifteen minutes, and pour it into a jelly bag till it runs perfectly clear. JELLY, ARROWROOT. Steep for some hours in two table-spoonsful of water the peel of a lemon, and three or four bitter almonds pounded; strain, and mix it with three spoonsful of arrow- root, the same quantity of lemon juice, and one of brandy; sweeten, stir it over the fire till quite thick, and when perfectly cold put it into jelly glasses. JELLY CAKE. Take lib. ot flour, lib. of sugar, lb. of butter, six eggs, half a nutmeg, and a spoonful of rose brandy; beat the butter and sugar together, adding the other ingredients, and the whites of the eggs beaten separately. Have shallow tin pans or plates of the same size, butter them, and pour in the batter so as to be about half an inch thick when baked. They take but a few minutes to bake of a light brown. As you take them from the oven put them on a china plate, with a layer of jelly upon each cake, till you have four or five layers. Cut the cake in slices before handing it. Currant jelly is to be preferred; but quince will answer, or peach marmalade. JELLY, CALF'S-FEET. See Calf's-Feet Jelly. JELLY TO COVER FISH. Clean the fish called a maid, and put it into three quarts of water, with a calf's foot or cow-heel, a piece of horseradish, an onion, three blades of mace, some white pepper, a bit of lemon peel, and a slice of lean gammon of bacon. Stew the whole till it begins to glutinise, then strain it off, and when cold remove every particle of fat; clear it from the sediment, and boil it in a glass of sherry, the whites of four or five eggs, and a piece of lemon-peel. Simmer the whole gently without stirring, and after a few minutes put it on one side to settle for half an hour. When cold strain it through a bag or sieve, and cover the fish with a wet cloth. JELLY, ENGLISH GUAVA. Put the berries into an enamelled or German saucepan, and let them simmer for a few minutes, mashing them with a wooden or a silver spoon ; then place them in a dairy or cheese cloth, or even a piece of strong coarse muslin; squeeze the pulp until the pips and skins are dry; then, having weighed the saucepan, pour in the juice, and take the weight of it, adding fine sugar at the rate of pound for pound. A very short time will suffice for boiling it, on account of the pro-