JET JUL [ 05 ] Germany, and other parts of Europe, as well as the East Indies, produce this fossil. It admits of a high polish, and is chiefly converted into small boxes, buttons, bracelets, and other toys. In conjunction with oils it forms an ingredient in varnishes ; and, when mixed with pulverised lime, it is said to produce a hard and durable cement. JET VAKNISH, HARNESS-MAKERS'. This is composed of 4 ozs. of glue, J oz. of isin- glass, ^oz. of soft soap, 1 drachm of indigo, and a small quantity (about one pennyworth) of log- wood raspings, boiled in a quart of vinegar until reduced one-half. It is applied to the leather with a soft sponge, laid on very thinly, observing that the article to be varnished is quite clean. It is applicable to boots or any other leather article as well as harness, and might be im- proved by the addition of i oz, of sulphate of iron. JOHN DORY. A good fish, cutting very white and finn; equal to turbot in firmness, but not in richness. Those caught off Plymouth and Torbay are the best- It is in season from March to June. JOHN DORY: To Dress. John Dory is esteemed a great delicacy, and should be cooked and served in the same manner as Tuebot. JOURNEY OR JOHNNY CAKE. Take a quart of sifted Indian meal, sprinkle a little salt over it, and mix it with scalding water, stir- ring it well; bake it on a board before the fire, or on a tin in the stove. It is healthy food for children eaten warm, not hot; with molasses or milk. JUJUBE GUM. Take jujubes, lib.; very white and picked gum arable, 2lbs.; powder sugar, 2 ozs. Pound the jujubes in amarble mortar with five pints of water, put the whole into a pan, and boil till reduced to three pints; strain the decoction through a cloth, beat up the white of an egg with a glass of water, mix part of it with the decoction as it boils, and throw in a little at a time of the remaining part to check the ebullition. When it is all used take off the scum, put it again on the fire to evaporate the I water, adding at the same time gum and sugar, powdered and passed through a horsehair sieve. Stir it with the spatula until dissolved. When it is of the consistence of honey place it in a bain-marie, and neither stir nor touch it, that it may be clear. When it has acquired body enough, so as not to stick to the back of the hand when applied to it, pour it into moulds I previously oiled with good olive oil, as for 1 Jujube Paste, and place it in the stove to finish drying. _ When dry take it out, and cut it in small pieces. JUJUBE PASTE. Take jujubes, 4ozs.; currants, washed and picked, 4oz3.; raisins stoned, 1 lb.; sugar, 2 lbs.; verjr white gum arable, 2^ lbs. Open the jujubes, and boil them with the currants and raisins in two quarts of water until reduced to three pints ; strain the decoction through a tamis cloth twisted by two persons; add the sugar in syrup, with gum which has previously been pounded and dissolved in a sufficient quantity of water; evaporate it by a moderate heat; pour it into tin moulds slightly oiled, having edges about a quarter of an inch deep, and diy in the stove. Take it out of the tins, and cut it with a pair of scissors into small diamonds. JULEP. A convenient form of medicines which require no decoction, and are mixed up with syrup or sugar, in order to dilute them properly, or to cover their pungency. Acid Julep consists of 3 drachms ot weak vitriolic acid, 3 ozs. of simple syrup, and 2 lbs. of spring water. These ingredients are to be gradually mixed, and the whole carefully strained. See Viteiolic Acid. Amber Julep. Let 2 drachms oftincture of amber and ^ oz. of refined sugar be mixed with 6 ozs. of spring water, and carefully strained. Under this form the tincture of amber is rendered an agreeable medicine, which may be substituted for the amber itself in nervous affections, &c., for which it is sometimes pre- scribed. Camphorated Julep. See Camphor Julep. Cordial Julep. Take of simple cinnamon water 4 ozs; Jamaica pepper water, 2 ozs. ; volatile aromatic spirit and compound spirit of lavender, of each 2 drachms; syrup of orange- peel, 1 oz. Mix them. Dose, two spoons- ful three or four times a day in disorders accompanied with great weakness and depression of spirits. Ether Julep is composed of 2 scruples of pure vitriolic ether, 6 ozs. of spring water, and ^ oz. of refined sugar, which ingredients are to be mixed and strained. In spasmodic affections this preparation is often given with advantage in repeated draughts of about half a tea-cupful every hour, or oftener. Expectorating Julep. Take of the emulsion of gum ammoniac 6 ozs.; syrup of squills, 2 ozs. Mix them. In coughs, asthmas, and obstructions of the breast, two table-spoonsful of this julep may be taken every three or four hours. Musk Julep. Eub i drachm of musk well together with ^ oz. of sugar, and add to it gradually simple cinnamon and peppermint water, of each 2 ozs.; of the volatile aromatic spirit, 2 drachms. In the low state of nervous fevers, hiccuping, convulsions, and other spas- modic affections, two table-spoonsful of this julep may be taken every two or three hours.