PAS [ 802 ] PAS serenity, and prolonged the existence, of those whose situation appeared to be foi-lorn. Love, viewed in its most favourable light, presents to us a picture of permanent joy, and is attended with all the good effects of that passion. It enlivens the pulsations of the heart and arteries ; promotes the operations of the different functions of the body ; and it has frequently been observed that a strong attachment to a beloved object has cured inveterate disorders which had resisted all medicinal powers, and which had been considered incurable. The changes which this passion can effect on the powers and the whole disposition of the mind are equally remarkable. For the extraordinary exertions made to obtain possession of the object of our wishes excite a sensation and conscious- ness of strength which enable man not only to undertake, but also to perform the noblest and most heroic actions. In that exalted state he sets all difficulties at defiance, and surmounts every obstacle. The most dangerous effect of love is jealousy : this pitiable passion, like disappointed love and pride, is very liable to terminate in madness. In sanguine temperaments the excess of this affec- tion is productive of consequences most prejudi- cial to the body : their fluids are impelled to a more rapid circulation, and they secrete, with preternatural velocity, that valuable fluid which stimulates them to venery. Such persons are much addicted to ease, pleasure, and every species of gratification which suits their irritable nerves : their skin and muscles being soft, and accessible to every stimulus, and their fluids thin and rarefied, it may be easily conceived that their humours circulate with rapidity to the parts of generation, and that their nerves are thus constantly excited to desire. The dreadful consequences are but too frequently visible in young persons, whether single or married, who have too early indulged in such excesses. Hence originate tabes dorsalis, wasting of the limbs, spitting of blood, pulmonary consumption, hectic fever, and the whole train of indefinable nervous diseases, so called for want of more proper names, besides a host of other disorders, mostly incurable. Sorrow is the reverse of joy, and operates either suddenly or slowly, according as the cause of it is of greater or less importance and duration. The lowest degree of it is called concern; when it arises from the disappoint- ment of hopes and endeavours it is vexation; when silent and thoughtful it settles into pen siveness or sadness; when it is long indulged in, so as to prey upon and possess the mind, it becomes habitual, and grows into melancholy. Sorrow increased and continued is called grief; when agitated by hopes and fears it is distrac- tion ; when all these are overwhelmed by sor- row it settles into despair. The highest degreo of sorrow is called agony. Sorrow seldom proves suddenly fatal; for, though it injures the nervous energy, it does not hasten the circulation of the blood with the rapidity of other passions, but rather retards its course. Yet there are examples of its speedy and fatal effects. Sorrow, like a slow poison, corrodes the powers cf the mind and the body; it enfeebles the whole nervous system ; the heart beats more slowly; the circulation of the blood and other fluids becomes more inert; they fre- quently stagnate in their channels, and generate evils more serious than sadness itself. Farther, the face at first turns pale, then yellow and tumid; the body and the mind are worn out; the course of the blood through the lungs must be assisted by frequent sighing; the appetite and digestion become vitiated, and thus arise obstructions, hysteric and hypochondriacal com- plaints, and at length consumption, which ia inevitable destruction to the body, frequently in the prime of life, and in spite of the healing art. Persons who indulge themselves in peevishness very soon lose their appetite, together with tlia power of digestion; their mouth has a bitter taste ; flatulency, colic, spasms, faintings, and the long list of stomachic complaints necessarily follow. Men become subject to the blind hemor- rhoids, and women to suppression or other irregularities of the menses, costiveness, or chronic diarrhoea. The bile, on account of tha retarded circulation, either grows thick, and pro- duces indurations of the liver, or it is mixed with the blood, and generates jaundice or dropsy. Such persons in time become very irritable and peevish; and, with the frequent return of grief, the mind at length is totally employed in con- templating its wretched situation, so that it finds new food for increasing it in almost every object it beholds. Hence the whole imagination is by degrees obscured, and the most usual con- sequences of it are the deepest melancholy, suc- ceeded either by a nervous fever or insanity, sometimes cancer, and at other times a speedier dissolution, by what is then called a broken heart. Solitude and idleness are not only the remote causes of many passions, but also support and foster them without exception : they collect and fix the attention of the mind on the favourite objects, and make us reflect the more keenly on the causes of the passions the less we are inter- rupted in these fond reveries by other sensa- tions. Though it certainly is not in our power to avert grief, from which even sages and heroes are not always exempt, yet we can do much to alleviate it by denying ourselves the enjoyment which this indulgence in certain situations affords.