MOO [ 219 ] MON cularly in its leaves and roots, the Aconitum napellus, or common monkshood, is found ex- tremely acrid. Placed in contact with the tongue, any portion of them excites a painful feeling of smarting, and a very considerable secretion in the salivary glands. The great number of accidents caused by the careless use of the root of monkshood sufficiently indicates its deleterious action ; and M. Orfila, after a great number of experiments, came to the con- clusion that the juice of the leaves introduced into the stomach, the rectum, or the cellular tissue, caused serious injury, followed by speedy death. The root acts with still greater effect. The aqueous extract prepared with the expressed juice of fresh leaves, and particularly the alco- holic extract, acted with the same poisonous properties. These different preparations are absorbed, act on the nervous system, and in particular on the brain, causing a sort of mental alienation, besides inducing a local irritation in the organs to which they have been applied. Instances are known where persons having taken the effluvia of the plant in full flower by the nostrils have been seized with swooning fits, and had lost their sight for three or four days. It was but recently that a painful acci- dent occurred with this plant, by which four gentlemen were poisoned at Dingwall, three of whom died from the effects, and which was caused by a servant ignorantly digging the root of monkshood, and serving it at dinner for horseradish. It is said that goats will die from eating this plant, but that horses are not affected by it. In Sweden a decoction or pow- der of the root of A. hjcoctonum is used for destroying flies and other insects, and in Medel- padia Linnaeus says the roots are eaten without injury. The aciid principle which is found in the monkshood was discovered by M. Brandes to be an alkali, which has been named aconitina or aconitine. In the hands of the skilful prac- titioner aconitine has been advantageously employed, administered internally, in chronic rheumatism, gout, exostosis, amaurosis, scrofula, cancer, intermittents, itch, and other diseases. When this poisonous plant has been swallowed the speediest emetic should be given, which is 30 grains of sulphate of zinc (white vitriol), dis- solved in water. If this be not at hand give a table-spoonful of table mustard, and copious draughts of warm water. If the poison has brought on vomiting, or other violent symp- toms, give brandy with 20 drops of laudanum, and as many of spirits of hartshorn. MONOMANIA. In this permanent delirium is confined to one object, or to a small number of them. The sufferers are pursued day and night by the same ideas and affections, and they give themselves up to these with profound ardour and devotion. They often appear reason- able when conversing on subjects beyond the sphere of their delirium, until some external impression suddenly rouses the diseased train. The character of this form of insanity is very various, and depends on the predomiiiani, species of delusion that is present. It is hence divided into several varieties. Some are gay and highly excited—laugh, talk, and sing—fancy themselves deities, kings, learned, and noble. Cases of this nature must be familiar to every reader. Fodere mentions one which is strikingly illustrative. A merchant at Marseilles, aged seventy, and always a decided royalist, had devoted himself to heraldic researches. He was so overjoyed at the return of the Bourbons to France that he became insane. His predomi- nant mania was to recite with a loud voice the history of the kings of France, and to fatigue his auditors with a tedious catalogue of chrono- logical facts. If they listened with patience he was contented and calm, but if any impa- tience was manifested his fury became un- governable. Some patients, when suffering under this form of insanity, are excessively irascible, and even without any apparent cause are suddenly hurried into a violent passion or fury. It is while labouring under this that they become dangerous to themselves or to those around them. They will seize any weapon, and strike and injure others or themselves. Sometimes conscious- ness of their situation is so far present as to allow them to warn individuals of their danger, or to entreat them to prevent their doing injury. An internal sensation is perceived—as a burning heat with pulsation within the skull—previously to this excitement. Lunatics of this descrip- tion " eat much, but sometimes they endure hunger with great obstinacy; they have fre- quent pains in the bowels, and costiveness is common. The pulse is full, hard, and strong, and the skin warm." Probably this is a fOrm of insanity as common as any other. It is also said to be less durable, and to end more favourably.—(Beck.) MONTPELLIEE CORDIAL. Take the yellow rinds of two bergamots or citrons, or 50 drops of the essence of bergamot; cloves and mace, of each i oz.; proof spirit, 1 gallon ; water, 1 quart. Digest two days in a close vessel, draw off a gallon, and sweeten with fine sugar. MOORFOWLS : To Pot. Pick, singe, and wash the birds ; then dry them, and season them well inside and out with pepper, salt, mace, nut- meg, and allspice. Pack them in a small pot, cover them with butter, and bake them in a slow oven. When cold remove the butter, dry the hirds from the gravy, and put one into each pot,