[ 312 ] PEC PEP fire, skim it well, and if too salt add a little sugar. PECTORAL DROPS. See Bateman's Pectoral Drops. PECTORAL MIXTURE (for Nervous Cough and Asthma). Take medicinal prussic acid, 1 oz.; distilled water, 1 pint; refined sugar, IJoz. A dessert-spoonful every morn- ing and evening at bedtime. Tliis may be gradually increased to six or eight spoonsful in the twenty-four hours, shaking the mixture every time it is used, to prevent the inconveni- ence that might be occasioned by the acid accu- mulating on the surface. PENCIL. Tlie name given to the small brushes used by artists, whether made of hog's bristles, camel hair, fitch, or sable. The larger brushes ai'e sometimes set in a tin tube, and the smaller in quills of different sizes. The hairs of a well-made brush should, when wetted, terminate in a fine point. The well-known black-lead pencil is made by cutting " Cumberland lead," or plumbago, into thin plates with a saw, and again into strips as wide as the plate is thick. These strips are then laid in a groove in a piece of cedar, upon which is glued another and thinner piece. The whole is afterwards rounded by a plane adapted to that purpose. Pencils are commonly marked with certain letters to denote the quality of the lead, as H for hard, B for black, M for medium, and so on. BB is the blackest. Other pencils are made of black and coloured chalks for drawing, and are much more con- venient than the port-crayon. The ever-pointed pencil is an instrument so simple and so well known as to require little description. The point or nozzle is made hollow, to receive a small cylindrical piece of black- lead, about three quarters of an inch long, which cannot pass through the lower end without some little force. Within the case is a screw or worm, which, if the case be turned round by one hand while the point of the pencil is held by the other, causes a wire or mandril, about the same size as the lead, to advance or retire. When a fresh lead is put into the point, the case must be turned round towards the left until the mandril is drawn up as far as possible. The point con- taining the lead is then to be screwed on to the case; and the case being turned gently to the right hand, the lead must be forced forward until it can just be seen at the point. These leads are made of different degrees and sizes, and the cases are marked accordingly. The leads are manufactured in the following manner:—After the plumbago is cut into square strips of the same diameter as, or a little greater than, the lead required, they are passed successively through three ruby holes, each smaller than the preceding. By this means they are rendered perfectly round and smooth, so as to offer no impediment to the working of the pencil. Most cases are made with a reservoir at the top, in which a supply of five or six leads may be carried. For drawing in imitation of lithographs, pencils may be made by melting 3 ozs. of white soap, adding to it 2 ozs. of tallow, ^ oz. of bees' wax, and 1 oz. of lampblack. Mix thoroughly, and cast into moulds. PENCIL DRAWINGS. To set these—that is, to prevent their being smeared—either of the following plans may be adopted effectually:— The first is a weak solution of the best gum arable in water, applied with a large soft brush over the drawing; and the other is to steam it over boiling water. The urn, for instance, answers the purpose extremely well. For fixing chalk drawings, highly rectified spirits of wine, 16 ozs.; camphorated ditto, 2 drachms; volatile oil of rosemary, 4 drachms; whitest resin, pounded very fine, 4 drachms. Over the pencil drawings, after the moisture has been quite dried off, apply, by means of a camel's-hair brush, a varnish made of 1 oz. of Canada balsam and 2 ozs. of spirits of turpentine mixed together. PENS. {See Quills.) To preserve steelpens fi-om corroding, a most effectual way is to place them in water when not being used. A jelly glass half full of water is an excellent receptacle for them. PEPPER. Black pepper and white pepper are both the fruit of Piper nigrum. White pepper is the ripe berry deprived of its skin by soaking it in water, rubbing it off, and drying it in the sun. It has less of the peculiar virtues of the spice than black pepper, and is not so generally employed. The plant is a native of India, and is cultivated throughout the whole of the tropics, but particularly in Java, Sumatra, Borneo, Malacca, and Hindostan: large quan- tities are also produced in the tropical regions of the New World. It is a rambling shrub, eight or ten feet in length, and when cultivated requires support in the same way as the vine, either by means of artificial stakes or by planting other trees : those which are used for the purpose are Diospyros decandra or Erythrina corallodendron. The plant is propagated by cuttings, comes into a bearing state in three or four years after it is planted, and furnishes two crops of fruit in a year for a period of eleven or twelve years. The fruit, the size of a pea, is produced in spikes, green at first, then changing to red, and when ripe perfectly black. When ripe they are spread out on mats to dry, and trodden on to separate them from their spikes. According to the analysis of Pelletier, pepper contains piperin; a very acrid concrete oil, on which the properties