LAU LAU r 128 ] of looseniug the Jirt, it fixes it iu tliem if the water should be in the least degree too hot, and makes it scarcely possible ever to clean them. The following is a better method, and will not give half the trouble:—Wet the linen with warm water, and rub it over with soap ; then rub the clothes between your hands very hard, and that will loosen the dirt. After that let them lie in hot water till next morning, then wash as usual, and there will be no occasion for more soap till the second lather. Chintz and fine printed cottons should be first thrown into pump water an hour before washing them, and when wrung out of that let them be washed in strong clear suds; but if there be any fine colours, as blue, yellow, or green, they must not be soaped at all, for that will draw out the colour, nor washed in too hot water. Then wring them out of those suds'? and after that, shaking them well, throw them into pump water immediately, for they should not be longer in hot water than they are washing, nor kept longer out of the pump water than they are shaking, otherwise the colours will run. Do them thus till they have gone through three suds ; and having then rinsed and blued them, immediately hang them up to dry, not letting any part, if possible, touch one another. Starch them when dry, then hang them up again, and when dry enough for ironing fold and iron them directly; but do not let them lie too long together. When the colours, with former bad washing, are run into the white ground, wash the cloth in three lathers, but without putting it into pump water. After that rinse the cloth, and then put it into a pail of soft water, mixed with half a pint of the best white wine vinegar, letting it remain there an hour or two, in which time all the colours run into the ground will be discharged and the cloth look clear and fine. To wash thread and cotton stockings. Let them have two lathers and a boil, having blued the water well; wash them out of the boil, but do not rinse them; then turn the wrong sides outwards, and fold them very smooth and even, laying them one upon another, and a board over them, with a weight to press them smooth. Let them lie thus about a quarter of an hour, after which hang them up to dry, and, when thoroughly so, roll them up tightly with- out ironing, by which means they will look like new. To wash worsted stockings. This should he done in two cool lathers, but there ought to be no soap rubbed on them; after which let them be rinsed well, then turned and folded like cot- ton stockings, and after that dried and rolled up tightly. Before the laundress begins washing she should take care that all stains oi spots le taken out of the linen. Old soap, as we have already observed, goes further than new, and. gives a better colour. As soon as the linen is fit for ironing there should be no time lost, for it is apt to turn yellow by lying damp. Fine linen should not be so dry as coarse when ironed; and thus it will be stiff, and look like new. Starch for small linen. Having wetted \ lb. of starch, mixed with a little powder blue so as it will bruise, add to it half a pint of water, and then pour them into a quart of water boiling on the fire. Stir well, and let the stai'ch boil at least a quarter of an hour, for it cannot be boiled too well; neither will the linen iron nor look well unless the starch be thoroughly boiled. After the starch is strained dip the linen into it, and then squeeze it out Dip first those things you would have stiffest, but do not rub them in the starch; and, accordingly as you want the starch stiff or thin, add or diminish. Some put gum arable, alum, and candle into the starch as it boils • but these are prejudicial, and if anything be added let it be isinglass, about I oz. to I lb. of stai'ch. for that will help to stiffen and make them clear, but it should not be used to laces. A kettle of bell-metal is the most proper vessel to boil starch in. To wash silk stockings and handkerchiefs. Some make a strong lather with soap pretty hot, then lay the stocldngs on a table, and with a rolled coarse rough cloth rub them hard, turn- ing them several times from one side to the other till they have passed through three lathers. Then they rinse them in three or four waters till all the soap is taken out, and when quite clear hang them up without wringing to dry, with the wroiig sides outwards They take them down when about half dry, and, pulling them out with their hands into shape, let them lie some time, and then iron them on the wrong side. Others wash them in two cold lathers, with blue added to the second, and do not rinse, but turn them ; then turning them, pull them smooth, press them, dry and roll them up tightly. Laying stockings in soak before wash- ing spoils their colour. Handkerchiefs should first be washed in cold water, but never in hot, for that quite spoils them, and then in luke- warm suds; then rinse, smooth, fold, and dry them. To clean cast ribbons. First sprinkle them with fair water, and then smooth them out, after which lay them on a carpet or clean cloth at full breadth, and brush them gently with a thin lather of Castile soap ; then rub them till they are clean in water wherein a little alum and white tartar have been dissolved, after which the colours will be fixed in them from further fading; but you must take care to dry