MUT MUT [ 237 ] this forcemeat under the skin in the thickest part of a leg of mutton, under the flap, and at the knuckle. For sauce, some oyster liquor, a little red wine, an anchovy, and some more oysters stewed, and served under the mutton. MUTTON, LOIN OF. Koast it. It is by many considered much better if cut like a saddle. It may also be used for steaks, pies, or broth, only taking care to cut off as much fat as possible. MUTTON, LOIN OF (Collaked akd Roasted). Clear the fat from the upper, and the meat from the under, side of a loin of mutton. Bone, and season it with pepper and salt, shallots, and sweet herbs chopped small. Roll it up tightly, and roast it gently. While dressing this part parboil that taken from the under side; then mince it, put it into half a pint of gravy, and when the mutton is ready pour it into the dish. One hour and three quarters will roast a loin in this way. MUTTON, LOIN OF (Rolled). Let it hang till tender; bone it, and season with pepper, allspice, mace, nutmeg, and cloves, all finely powdered. Next beat the meat, and cover it with stuffing similar to that for a hare. Roll it up tightly, and bake it in a slow oven. When cold take off the fat, and put the gravy into a stewpan, with the meat floured. Stew it' till nearly done, and then add a glass of port wine, some catsup, an anchovy, and a little lemon pickle half an hour before serving, which must be in the gravy, with currant-jelly sauce. Some fresh mushrooms may be added, unless the meat is to be eaten like a hare, when these and the lemon should be omitted. MUTTON, LOIN OF (Stewed). Bone and skin the loin, and stew it in a pint of water, turning it frequently. When the liquor is half wasted take out the loin, strain it, and when cold take off the fat. Make a rich, highly seasoned gravy of the bones ; strain, and mix it with the liquor the loin was stewed in ; add a tea-cupful of port wine and some small mushrooms. Thicken the sauce with butter rolled in flour, put in the mutton, and heat it thoroughly. Garnish with pickles. MUTTON MEDLEY PIE, RAISED. Take the best part of a leg of mutton, and mince it with any sort of poultry, meat, or game you may find convenient; also mince i lb. of beef suet, some ham, fat bacon, truffles, pistachio nuts, and four or five yolks of hard-boiled eggs ; mix with these all sorts of spices, sweet herbs, and two glasses of brandy. Make a good raised crust, into which put the above; cover, and bake the pie in a moderate oven five or six hours. Serve it cold. MUTTON, NECK OF. This is particularly useful, as many dishes may be made of it. The Lest end of the neck may be boiled for an hour and a half, and served with turnips, or roasted, dressed in steaks, in pies, d la Turque, or in haricot. The scrar/ may be stewed into broth, or with a small quantity of water, some small onions, some peppercorns, and a little rice, and served together. When a neck is to be boiled to look particularly nice, saw down the chine- bone, sti'ip the ribs half way down, chop off the ends of the bones about four inches, and turn the flap under. The skin should not be taken off till boiled, and then the fat will remain white. The neck is very commonly divided, the scrag being boiled for broth, and the remain- ing part either roasted or cut into chops ; but, if boiled together, the scrag will require rather more stewing than the other part to make it tender. If only slightly salted for two or three days the fat will be so much improved as to become firm, and appear clarified; and the mode wliich we recommend for dressing the joint is thus :— Boil the neck very gently till it is nearly done enough; then, half an hour or twenty minutes before serving, cover it thickly with bread crumbs and sweet herbs chopped, with a little drawn butter or the yolk of an egg, and put it into a Dutch oven before the fire. By this process the meat will taste much better than if merely roasted or boiled ; the dryness attendant upon roasting will be removed; and the disagreeable greasiness which boiled meat, especially mutton, exhibits, will utterly disappear. Too much cannot be said in favour of this method of dressing the neck and breast of mutton, for the liquor they have been boiled in, if stewed with peas, will make a very good soup. MUTTON, NECK OF (Larded with Ham AND Anchovies). Take the fillet of a neck of mutton, and lard it quite through with ham and anchovies, first rolled in chopped parsle; , shallots, sweet herbs, pepper, and salt; then let it braise or stew in a little stock, with a glas^ of white wine. When done skim and strain the sauce, adding a little cullis to give it the proper consistence. Squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, pour this sauce over the meat, and serve. MUTTON, NECK OF (wjth Parsley). Take either a neck, loin, or saddle of mutton; trim it, and lift up the skin underneath, larding the whole with sprigs of fresh parsley; put it on the spit to roast, and, when the parsley is thoroughly dried, baste it very frequently with hog's lard until the meat is done; then toss up a little gravy with some shallots cut small, salt, and pepper, and serve with the meat. MUTTON, NECK OF (with Roots). Having prepared your mutton by cutting oft the scrag end and tying it up, put some slices of bacon, any meat trimmings, four carrots, five