PAT PEA [ 309 ] oven as soon after it is made as possible : on tliis account the paste should not be begun to be made till the oven is half heated, which sometimes occupies an hour. If paste be left twenty minutes or more before it is baked it will become dull and heavy. Paste should be light without being greasy, and baked of a fine colour without being burnt; therefore to insure good baking requires at- tention. Puff paste requires a brisk oven ; a moderate one will best bake pies and tarts, puddings and ])iscuits. Regulation of heat according to cir- cumstances is the main point in baking. If the oven be too hot the paste, besides being burned, will not rise well; and if it be too slack the paste will be soddened, not rise, and want colour. Piaised pies require the quickest oven. When fruit pies are baked in iron ovens the syrup is apt to boil out of them: to prevent this set a few thin bricks on the bottom of the oven before it is heated, but this will not be requisite if the oven has a stone bottom. Tart tins, cake moulds, and dishes should be well buttered before baking. Articles to be baked on sheets should be placed on buttered paper. PATERASA LOZENGES. Cut off the white end from some red rosebuds, and dry them in the sun; grind 1 oz., and sift it; wet 1 lb. of sugar, and boil it to candy height; put in the juice of a lemon and the powder of roses, pour it on a nicely oiled marble slab or dish, and cut it in lozenges. The lozenges are very different from those bought in the shops. A drop of otto or essence may be added. PEA SOUP. Take the liquor in which a joint of salt beef, pork, or leg of mutton has been boiled; put it into a large saucepan, with beef bones, a knuckle of ham, a carrot or two, a leek, a little celery seed tied in a bag, and a pint of split peas ; let the whole simmer by the side of the fire for five hours. When sufficiently done rub the peas through a cullender, strain the liquor over them, season to your taste, and serve with dried mint rubbed fine, toasted or fried bread cut into dice, and Cayenne pepper. PEA SOUP, GREEN. Take a pint of old peas, and put them into a saucepan, with an equal quantity of water, 1 oz. of butter, an onion or two, some lettuce leaves, pepper, and salt; cover the saucepan closely, and let them simmer till the peas are quite soft; then rub them through a cullender, and add to the liquor moi'e water, the remainder of the lettuces, a pint of young peas, a little chopped spinach, mint, salt, pepper, some more butter, and a table-spoonful of flour; boil these also till the peas can be rubbed through a cullender, then mix them with the old peas, strain the liquor over, and serve. PEACH CREAM. The peaches must be prepared the same as for making jelly, but, instead of running them through a sieve, rub the whole through a tammy, and make use of less isinglass : put it all at once in the mould, which must be set in ice. PEACH FRITTERS. Take a dozen small ripe peaches ; pare and cut them in halves; soak them in half a glass of brandy and two spoonsful of sugar, on which has been rubbed the rind of a lemon; in two hours' time take them out, and dip them one by one into some good batter, and fry of a nice colour. Boil ^ lb. of sugar to caramel, with which glaze the fritters, strewing over each, as it is done, some gros Sucre. PEACH JELLY. Cut ten or twelve peaches in halves, take out the stones, and peel them; set a pint of clarified sugar, diluted with water, on the fire, and when it has boiled and been skimmed put in the peaches (the kernels should be broken and put in with them); let them boil very gently for ten minutes, take out four or five of the halves, and lay them on a plate to be in readiness for garnishing the jelly: let the remainder of the peaches boil for ten minutes longer. While they are boiling take three lemons, cut off the rind, and squeeze the juice through a silk sieve in a basin ; pass the liquor of the peaches into it, and then the isinglass, running it through a sieve two or three times in order to mix it well; half fill the mould with jelly, and when set put in the peaches and a little more jelly, and when that is set fill up the mould. The reason why the lemons are peeled before they are squeezed for this jelly is, that the oil in the rind would rather spoil the flavour of the jelly than be any addition. PEACH MARMALADE. Choose the finest peaches (but they must not be too ripe), peel them, take out the stones, and put them into a china basin; clarify a sufficient quantity of sugar to allow the fruit to float in the syrup; boil this sugar to lisse, let it cool a little, then pour it over your fruit, and leave it. The next day drain the syrup, boil it twelve or fifteen times, and then pour it again over the fruit. Repeat this process every twenty-four hours for six days, each time adding a little sugar and boiling it longer, until it at last reaches the degree of grande perle ; then add the fruit, and boil them together; as soon as they have boiled up three or four times take the whole off the fire, and put it into glass or china jars. During the six days that the fruit lies in the syrup take care to place a piece of paper the size of the pan on the-surface of th6 syrup,