L IQ [ 152 ] LIP substance before a bandage can be applied. 2. To promote the healing of wounds, espe- cially when spread with some digestive oint- ment or balsam. 3. For drying wounds and ulcers. 4. To keep them open, in order that the lips may not close before the interior part is perfectly healed; and, lastly, to pre- serve wounds from the hurtful influence of the air. Trifling as lint may appear, it is an article of considerable utility, and with which every family should always be provided, to serve in case of sudden emergencv. LIP SALVE, FKENCH. Lard, 16ozs.; white wax, 2 ozs.; nitre and alum in fine powder, of each ^ oz.; alkanet to colour. LIP SALVE, GERMAN. Butter of cacao, i oz.; oil of almonds, ^ oz. Melt together with a gentle heat, and add 6 drops of essence of lemon. LIP SALVE, GRAPE. Pommade au raisin pour les levres. Put into a glazed earthen pipkin ^ lb. of fresh butter, I lb. of fine yellow wax, 1 oz. of alkanet, and three bunches of black grapes. Boil together, and strain without pres- sure through linen. LIP SALVE, PERUVIAN. As either of the above, substituting 20 or 30 drops of Peruvian balsam for the otto : 8 drops of oil of lavender may be added. LIP SALVE, ROSE. Oil of almonds, 3 ozs.; alkanet, \ oz. Digest with a gentle heat, and filter. Melt l^^oz. of white wax and | oz. of spermaceti with the filtered oil, stir it until it begins to thicken, and add from 12 to 36 drops of otto of roses, Or, white wax, 1 oz.; oil of sweet almonds, 2 ozs.; alkanet, 1 drachm. Digest till coloured, strain, and add 6 drops of otto of roses. LIQUEUR, ANISETTE. Pound 2 ozs. of green aniseed, 1 oz. of coriander, 2 scruples of cinnamon, and \ scruple of mace; put these ingredients into a jar with two quarts of brandy, and add some sugar (6 ozs. to the quart); leave the whole to infuse for a month; then filter it through blotting paper. I>IQUEUR, CASSIS. Take 31bs. of very ripe black currants, and crush them; put them into a jar with nine pints of brandy, and add, if you like, some cloves and a little pounded cinnamon tied up in muslin. At the end of two months pour off the liqueur, and squeeze the fruit dry; put back the juice into the jar, with 1 f lb. of sugar; leave it for a time to dissolve the sugar, after which filter it through blotting paper into bottles. This liqueur in three or four years will acquire the delicious flavour of Rota wiue. LIQUEUR, CITRONNELLE. To the zest of twelve lemons put eight quarts of brandy in the manner hereafter mentioned (See Liqueurs), add two pieces of cinnamon broken, and 1 oz. of coriander, with 2 lbs. of sugar, which must be dissolved in three quarts of water during a month. Clarify by a bag, and if necessary with a paper filter, and bottle. LIQUEUR, CREME D'ANGfiLIQUE. Pluck the leaves from some stalks of green angelica, and cut the latter into pieces like celery. To | lb. add 3 drachms of nutmeg, 1 drachm of cinnamon, six cloves, and 2 lbs. of sugar dissolved in one quart of water. Mix the whole with three quarts of brandy ; leave it to infuse six weeks ; then filter and bottle it. LIQUEUR, CREME DE CANNELLE. To a quart of spirits oi wine add twenty drops of oil of cinnamon, and two of oil of roses. Shake the mixture well until the oils are properly dis- solved ; then mix with it a quart of the syrup, and a sufficient quantity of red tincture to pro- duce a bright, full colour; filter and bottle it immediately. LIQUEUR, CREME DE CITRON. Put sixty drops of oil of citron into a quart of spirits of wine ; shake it well, then mix with it the quart of syrup, for making which see Liqueurs, Syrup for ; add likewise 2 ozs. of the yellow colouring matter, and then filter the whole through filtering paper. If not suffi- ciently bright and pellucid filter it a second time through some fresh paper; then bottle it for use. LIQUEUR, CRfiME DE GIROFLE. It is made by adding forty drops oi oil of cloves to a quart of spirits of wine, and after shaking it well, mixing with it a quai't of syrup, and as much of the red colouring matter as will impart to it a good colour. Filter it through blotting paper, and bottle it immediately. LIQUEUR, CREME DE MENTHE. Drop into a quart of spirits of wine twenty five drops of oil of mint, and three of oil of citron ; shake up well, and mix with it a quart of syrup; add as much as may be deemed necessary of green colouring matter, and then filter and bottle the liqueur. LIQUEUR, CREME DE ROSE, is pre- pared much in the same manner as Liqueur, Creme DE Cannelle. Into a quart of spirits of wine put twelve drops of oil of roses, and three of oil of nutmeg; shake the mixture well, and when the oils are dissolved add a quart of the syrup, and a sufficient quantity of pink mixture to produce a fine rose colour. It may then be filtered and bottled. LIQUEUR, CREME DE VANILLE. Into a quart of spmts of wine put twelve drops of the tincture of vanilla, shake it well, and then add a quart of the syrup. When well mixed let it stand ten minutes, and then filter it twice