LOB LOB [ 100 cbovy, and lialf a spoonful of elder vinegar; make it hot, but not boiling ; put in the lobster, season with pepper and salt, fill some small custard moulds with this, and serve hot. LOBSTER SOUP. Boil three fine young hen lobsters, and when cold split the tails, take out the meat, crack the claws, and cut the meat into pieces. Take out the coral and soft parts of the body, bruise part of the coral in a mortar, pick out the meat from the chines, bruise part of it with the coral, and make with this forcemeat balls, seasoned with mace or nutmeg, grated lemon- peel, anchovy, and Cayenne ; pound these with the yolk of an egg. Have ready three quarts of veal stock ; bruise the small legs and the chine, and put them into the stock to boil for twenty minutes ; then strain it, and to thicken it take the fresh coral, and bruise it in a mortar with a little butter and flour; rub it through a sieve, and put it to the soup, with the meat of the lobsters and the remaining coral; let it simmer very gently for ten minutes ; do not let it boil, or Its fine red colour will immediately fade ; pour it into a tureen, and add the juice of a lemon and a little essence of anchovy. LOBSTERS. Buy these alive. The lobster merchants sometimes keep them till they are starved before they boil them; they are then watery, and have not half their Havour. Choose those that, as an old cook says, are " heavy and lively," and are full of motion, which is the index to their freshness. Those of the middle size are the best. Never take them when the shell is incrusted, which is a sign they are old. The male lobster is preferred to eat, and the female (on account of the eggs) to make sauce of. The hen lobster is distinguished by having a broader tail than the male, and smaller claws. Set on a pot with water, salted in the proportion of a table- spoonful of salt to a quart of water ; when the water boils put the lobster in, and keep it boiling briskly from half an hour to an hour, according to its size ; wipe all the scum off it, and rub the shell with a little butter or sweet oil; break off the great claws, crack them care- fully in each joint, so that they may not be shattered, and yet come to pieces easily ; cut the tail down the middle, and send the body up whole. LOBSTERS : To Choose. The heaviest are considered the best. When alive, if they are quite fresh, the claws will have a strong motion when you put your finger on the eyes and press them. When you buy them ready boiled try •whether their tails are stiff and pull with a, spring, otherwise that part will be flabby. The cock lobster may be distinguished from the hen by the narrow back part of the tail, and the two uppermost fins will be stiff and hard; but those of the hen are soft, and the tail broader. The male, though generally smaller, has a higher colour, tTie flesh is firmer, and the colour, when boiled, is a deeper red. They come in about AprD, and remain in season till the oysters return. Hen lobsters are preferred for sauces on account of their coral. LOBSTERS : To Marinate. Half boil them, take out the meat, and lard the tails with a salted eel; then cut the tails lengthways, and fry them in oil. Make a sauce with white vinegar, salt, pepper, cloves, mace, sliced ginger, parsley, sage, winter savory, sweet marjoram, the tops of rosemary and thyme, and soma J)ay leaves: dish the lobsters, and pour the sauce over them; lay upon them three lemons cut into slices, and run them all over with butter LOBSTERS: To Pickle. Boil your lob- sters in vinegar, white wine, and salt; then take them up, and put into the liquor all sorts of sweet herbs, cloves, pepper, and mace ; then put in the lobsters again, and boil the whole together. When completely done take them out, put them into a barrel or vessel just large enough to hold them, pour the liquor over them, and set them by for use. LOBSTERS : To Serve. These are seldom sent to table whole, and therefore nothing more need be said than that the tail is the prime part, and next to that the claws. LOBSTERS : To Stew (1). Put the lobsters into a stewpan, with vinegar, claret, butter, suet, and nutmeg; stew them rather dry, and then take them up and lay them in a dish ; pour butter over them, and garnish with slices of lemon. LOBSTERS : To Stew (2). Pick the lob- sters from the shells, put the coral into a dish that is heated by a lamp, and rub it down with a bit of butter, two spoonsful of any sort of gravy, one of soy or walnut catsup, a small quantity of salt and Cayenne, and a spoonful of port. Stew the lobsters, and cut them into bits ill the gravy as above. LOBSTERS, BROILED. When the lobsters are boiled split their tails and chines, crack the claws, and pepper and salt them ; take out their bodies, and what is called the lady; then put them again into the shell, and then on the grid- iron over a clear fire, with the tails and claws ; baste them with butter, and serve them with melted butter for sauce. LOBSTERS, BUTTERED. Boil them, take out the meat, and cut it into pieces, to which put a little gravy, the inside of the lobsters, and the spawn bruised ; add a very little white wine, pepper, salt, nutmeg, lemon-peel grated, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little lemon juice; stir all these together, aud let it boil up. Quarter the chine, season it with pepper and salt, broil it, and lay it on the dish on the rest. Garnish with sliced lemon.