HEN [ 37 1 HER HENBANE {Hyoscyamus niyer) is one of the most dangerous of narcotics. It is a native of Britain, and may be met with among rubbish and on dunghills. The whole plant has a rank, offensive odour, and possesses in all its parts the same acrid narcotic properties as stramo- nium and belladonna. Wepfer relates that the whole inmates of a convent were poisoned by- using the root instead of chicory. The root is emetic, and necklaces are sometimes made of it to cure convulsions in children. It is a biennial, and is more energetic in its action the second year than the first. The leaves have a fetid and narcotic odour like that of tobacco; their taste is mucilaginous and slightly acrid. When dried they have little flavour or smell, and when thrown on the fire they burn with a crackling noise as if they contained nitre. Applied to the head in a fresh state they allay nervous headache. Boiled with milk, and applied to the breasts, they dissipate induration of the milk. They are also used in gouty tumours, rheumatism, and to allay pain. The seeds possess all the properties of the plant. Smoked through a pipe like tobacco, they have been found beneficial in toothache. They contain an alkaline principle called hyoscyamin, com- bined with malic acid. It is in the form of transparent, colourless, needle-shaped ciystals, without odour, and with a disagreeable taste. Henbane, in the hands of the professional practitioner, acts as a diaphoretic or diuretic, as an anodyne and soporific. It is generally used to relieve pain, procure sleep, or quiet irregular nervous action ; but as such it is inferior to opium, although it has this advantage in certain cases, that it has no tendency to produce constipation. Neuralgic and spasmodic affections, rheumatism, gout, hysteria, and various pectoral diseases, as catarrh, asthma, and pulmonary consumption, are among those in which it is most frequently prescribed.— {Hogg's Vegetable Kingdom.) HERB PIE Take a handful of spinach, double the quantity of parsley picked, two lettuces, mustard and cress, and the leaf of borage and white beet; wash, scald, and, having pressed and drained out all the water, shred them very small; mix them together, and season them with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Make a batter with a couple of eggs, a pint of cream, half a pint of milk, and some flour; stir it well, and pour it on the herbs in a deep dish. Cover the whole with a crust, and bake. HERB POWDER is an excellent article to keep on hand. It may always be used when fresh herbs cannot be had. Make it in the following manner :-T-Take dried parsley, winter savory,sweet marjorarr;, and lemon thyme, of each 2 ozs.; lemon-peel cut very thinly and dried, and sweet basil, 1 oz. each. Dry thesft ingredients in a warm, but not hot oven, or by the fire, till you can pound them finely in a mortar, and pass the powder through a hair sieve. Put this powder in a clean dry bottle, and keep it closely corked. The fragrance will be retained many months. It is an economical and delicious flavouring. HERB PUDDING. Wash, scald, and shred small spinach, beet, parsley, and leeks, of each a handful; have ready a quart of groats previously soaked i'-^ warm water for half an hour, cut 1 lb. of hog's lard and three onions into dice, and mince three sage leaves ; mix all these ingre- dients, add a little salt, and tie them up closely in a cloth. Whilst boiling the string must be loosened to allow the pudding to swell. HERB SAUCE. Work up a piece of butter in some flour, melt it, and then put to it the following herbs shred smallParsley, scallions, tarragon, borage, garden cress, chervil, &c. ; boil all these together for about a quarter of an hour, add a glass of stock, and serve it very hot. HERB SOUP. Put i lb. of butter in a pan, set it on the fire, and shake it round till melted ; put in six sliced onions, and shake the pan well for two or three minutes; add two heads of celery, two handsful of spinach, or a little chervil, some pot marjoram, two cabbage lettuces cut small, and some parsley; shake the pan over the fire ten minutes, and then put in two quarts of water and some crusts of bread. Boil gently for an hour, and add Cayenne pepper and salt to the taste. HERBS * To Dry. It is very important, to those who are not in the constant habit of at- tending the markets, to know when the various seasons commence for purchasing sweet herbs. All vegetables are in the highest state of perfection, and fullest of juice and flavour, just before they begin to flower. The first and last crops have neither the fine flavour nor the perfume of those which are gathered in the height of the season ; that is, when the greater part of the crop of each species is ripe. Take care they are gathered on a dry day, by which means they will have a better colour when dried. Cleanse the herbs well from dirt and dust, cut off the roots, separate the bunches into smaller ones, and dry them by the heat of a stove, or in a Dutch oven before a common fire, in such quantities at a time that the process may be speedily finished; that is, " kill 'em quick," says a great botanist. By this means their flavour will be best preserved. There can be no doubt of the propriety of drying herbs, &c., hastily by the aid of artificial heat. The only caution requisite is to avoid burning, and of this a sufficient test is afforded by the preserva- tion of the colour. The usual proceeding is