[ 66 ] INC IMP the teeth. This may be effected by forcing the breath between the palate and the tip of the tongue, and by causing the tongue to vibrate rapidly. Although this effort will produce an inarticulate sound, it will be a useful exercise. Words may then be practised in which this letter occurs in various combinations, slowly at first, till the proper method is acquired; and it should be the principal care to prevent the thi'oat from interfering, or being at all concerned in the articulation. In this, as in every other suc- cessful effort of persevering labour, the example of Demosthenes is encoui'aging, as he completely conquered the defect in his utterance. The hissing of the letter s, that reproach to our language, is as far as possible to be mode- rated, both by attention to composition and enunciation, and should not be exaggerated, as some are found to do. The letters m and n are also subject to be imperfectly sounded. Instead of passing the sound of m, when produced by closing the lips, entirely through the nose, it is stopped or resisted apparently between the bony and car- tilaginous part of the nose, and does not issue freely. Tins may be proved by holding the nose in the fingers, and endeavouring to pro- nounce words in which those letters require to be sounded, such as hummums (a German word), ninny, singing, ringing, &c., when the sound will appear to be violently impeded in the place mentioned. This defect is called, by a contradictory appellation, " speaking through the nose," and is seldom difficult to remove. The sound of the letter n, when formed by pressing the upper part of the tongue against the palate, should also pass entirely through the nose, but more gently than that of m. In its general combinations imperfect articula- tion is not so disagreeable as when combined with the letter g—a combination very frequent in our language, and altogether offensive to the ear -when not perfectly enounced. The ■words ringing, singing, sound as if the n was omitted, and are uttered most disagreeably, as if they were riggig, siggig. The defective arti- culation of both these letters may be success- fully got over by attention and practice, except in cases where nature or accident may have denied the sounds a passage through the proper organ. IMPERIAL. Put 2 ozs. of cream of tartar, and the juice and peel of two lemons into a stone jar, pour on them seven quarts of boiling ■water, stir, and cover closely. When cold sweeten it with lib. of loaf sugar, strain it, bottle, and cork it tightly. IMPERIAL NECTAR (1). For three gallons take six quarts of spirits, two quarts of raisin wine, 2 ozs. each of peach and apricot kernels, 1 dwt. ot oil of orange, ^ dwt. of oil of cloves, i oz. of mace, two nutmegs, half a pint of spirits, and 2 lbs. of loaf sugar. Fill up with water. The kernels, mace, and nutmegs must be pounded in a mortar, and steeped in spirit eight or ten days. Colour it mth burnt sugar, and let it stand to fine of itself. IMPERIAL NECTAR (2). Peel eighteen lemons very thinly, and steep the rinds forty- eight hours in a gallon of brandy ; then add the juice, with five quarts of spring water, 3 lbs. of loaf sugar, and two nutmegs grated; stir the whole till the sugar is dissolved, then pour in three quarts of new milk boiling hot, and let it stand two hours, after which run it through a jelly bag till fine. This may be used imme- diately, but wUl improve by keeping, IMPERIAL WATER. Put 2 ozs. of cream of tartar into a jar, with the juice and peels of two lemons; pour thereon seven quarts of boil- ing water, and when cold strain it through a gauze sieve Bottle it up, and keep it for use. INCONTINENCE OF URINE. The urine often passes insensibly without pain. This complaint is incident to people in the decline of ^ife. Should incontinence of urine be derived from paralytic affection of the muscle which con- tracts the lower orifice of the bladder, a cure will not easily be effected; if from the latter period of gestation, the disease usually ceases with the cause. When occasioned by gravel it requires a treatment similar to that disease. As arising from a communication between the bladder and vagina it does not admit of a cure, the continued dribbling preventing the parts from healing. The person thus afflicted may, nevertheless, occasionally find relief by lying with the face downward. The water being thereby hindered from constantly escaping, the aperture is sometimes closed. Children are not liable to void their urine in bed if not allowed to sleep on their backs. If other means fail relief may be obtained by a jugum in the male, and pessaries in the female, or a sponge so fastened as to become a convenient receptacle. In cases where the jugum cannot be used an instrument must be worn to receive the urine. Blisters near the seat of the disorder often have a good effect. Remedies to counteract paralytic tendency are generous diet, and the correspondent active influence of the other natural powers. Corroborants and sea-bathing will also occa- sionally be required. Should the urine be habitually evacuated during the night, as some- times happens before the age of puberty, and even-in more advanced years, persons thus