IND IND [ 69 ] should carefully attend to the first feeling of satiety. There is a moment when the relish given by the appetite ceases: a single mouthful taken after this oppresses a weak stomach. If he eats slowly, and carefully attends to this feeling, he will never overload the stomach. Morbid distention of the stomach, however, may take place, although there be no error in either of these respects, if the food, being of such a nature that the fluids of a weak stomach are unable to effect the necessary change on it. run into fermentation. It is evident that morbid distention, from whatever cause, cannot exist without at the same time occasioning morbid irritation of the surface of the stomach. The distention itself has this effect; but, as deranged digestion is the consequence of this degree of distention, it can never stop here. All undigested food, however small the quantity, is a cause of irritation. Thus the whole train of symptoms which constitute a fit of indigestion may arise either from too large a quantity of food, particularly if carelessly masticated, or from food of difficult digestion—most readily, of course, from a combi- nation of these causes. It is, therefore, of great consequence, in regulating the treatment of this disease, to ascertain what kinds of food are most easily changed by the gastric fluid. This is sometimes influenced by peculiarities of con- stitution, to which no general rules will apply ; but it is not difficult to perceive what kind of diet is usually best suited to a weak stomach. Tough, acescent, and oily articles of food, with a large proportion of liquid, compose the diet most difiBcult of digestion. It would appear that a feeble gastric fluid, as, indeed, we might d priori suppose, does not admit of being greatly diluted without having its powers much impaired. The diet opposite to this, then, is that which agrees best with dyspeptics. In the ■first stage of indigestion a diet composed pi-etty much of animal food and stale bread is the best. Proper kind of food. If we except beef and veal the flesh of old, in general, is more easy of digestion than that of young animals, on account of the greater quantity of mucilage in the latter. All mucilages are of difficult diges- tion. Even the vegetable mucilages, which in small quantity are generally grateful to the stomach, will oppress it if taken very freely. They are among the things which, in vulgar language, are called sating or phlegmy. What- ever produces the feeling known by these terms disagrees with the stoma-h. The stronger kinds of animal food, of which beef may be considered the strongest, are most apt to excite fever. On this account we often allow those recovering from fever, or otherwise disposed to it, to eat the animal mucilages, or those meats which contain a great portion of them, when even mutton, for example, is for- bidden. Thus animal jellies and young meats have obtained the name of light; but this only relates to their tendency to produce fever, for, as far as digestion is concerned, they are heavier than mutton, and to many stomachs than beef. A similar observation applies to the vegetable, compared with the animal kingdom ; the former are less apt to excite fever, and are therefore called lighter, but they are in general more difficult of digestion. From what it arises that mutton is to most stomachs so much more easy of digestioia than beef it would be difficult to say. Most kinds of game are of easy digestion. Fish, inde- pendently of the heavy sauce with which it is eaten, is for the most part less easily digested than the flesh of land animals; and, as it at the same time affords less nutriment, it is in both respects less proper for the food of dys- peptics, although, from the white kinds being less apt to excite fever, they, like the animal mucilages, have obtained the name of light—a term which so often deceives with respect to what is most easy of digestion, that it is neces- sary to keep this explanation of it in view. The meat most mixed with fat is, other things being alike, most oppressive. It is on this ac- count that pork and the tongues of many animals are of difficult digestion. For the same reason geese and ducks are the most oppressive kinds of poultry. Turkey is more so than fowl, which, next to mutton, is perhaps, upon the whole, the lightest animal food in common use if the skin be avoided. Of the different kinds of game pheasant is least easy of digestion. The lean part of venison is, perhaps, the most digestible article of diet. Hare and pjartridge appear to be as much so as mutton, and all kinds of meat become more digestible by being kept till they are tender. Eggs, as far as relates to a tendency to pro- duce fever, may be regarded as of a middle nature between animal and vegetable food. It is a common opinion that they disagree with bilious people, that is, people labouring under indigestion, in whom the disease has extended to the function of the liver. This opinion, in general, is ill founded, if they are eaten soft- boiled with stale bread. In this state, although offensive to a few stomachs, for the most part they are easy of digestion if the patient con- fines himself to one, or at most two, and are an agreeable change. Few things are of more difficult digestion than new bread. Everything, as may be inferred from what has been said of the process of digestion, which by mastication forms a tenacious paste, is difficult of digestion, being