L IT N Bainlwicli, stale bread, and half a pmt of good home-brewed beer, or toast and water, with about one-fourth or one-third part of its measure of wine, of which port is preferred. The solidity of the luncheon should be pro- portionate to the time it is intended to enable you to wait for your dinner, and the activity of the exercise you take in the meantime. LUNGS, INFLAMMATION OF. This complaint is known'by a great load and oppres- sion at the chest; difficulty of breathing ; some- times the patient cannot breathe but in an tipright posture; the breath is hot, attended with cough and fever; the face is swelled and of a livid colour. The cough is commonly moist, and the phlegm frequently streaked^ with blood ; the pain not so superficial, nor the pulse so full or hai'd as in pleurisy, though the diffi- culty of breathing, anxiety, and oppressive weight are more distressing. If the urine deposit a white and uniform sediment it is a favourable symptom, and pro- mises safety to the patient and shortness of the disease; and so does a red sediment which gradually changes to a white, or turbid urine depositing a copious sediment, as well as an early appearance and continuance of what is called an erysipelatous blush, or a miliary eruption. The treatment consists in bleeding at the commencement from a large orifice, and to repeat it according to the exigency of the symp- toms ; but great care and attention are required with regard to this operation, for if the habit of body be strong, the pulse full, firm, and hard, it may be repeated with safety, otherwise great caution is requisite, lest, by an unnecessary repetition, we do irrecoverable injury. Leeches or cupping-glasses may be applied over the seat of the pain, and the following purge given at the commencement:—Take submuriate of mer- cury, 5 grains; conserve of hips, the same quantity. Make a pill, to be taken immediately, after which the following draught: —Epsom salts, 3 drachms; senna tea, 2 ozs.; syrup, 1 drachm. As it will be necessary to keep the bowels gently open from time to time, the above draught may be given either once, twice, or three times, in proportion to the effects it may produce. To promote expectoration, which should b« forwarded by every possible means, and to de- termine a gentle perspu-ation to the surface of the body, any of the following may be given, viz.:—Take purified nitre, 1 diachm; oxymel of squills, 3 drachms. Make a mixture, and take a tea-spoonful often, or when the cough is troublesome. Or, oil of almonds, 1 oz.; syrup of tolu, I oz.; spermaceti, beaten up vfith a solution of gum arabic or the yolk of an egg ; confection of dog roses, or hips, \oz. Mix them up, and let the patient take a little fre- quently. Or, antimonial powder, 1^ grain to 3 grains; confection of roses, 10 grains. Mix for a bolus, to be taken every thi-ee hours. Or, James's powder, 4 grains for a dose. Bathing the feet every night in warm water will be of service; and, when once expectoration has copiously appeared, caution must be ob- served in promoting purging, as this, as well as blood-letting, would tend to check it. At this period of the disease costiveness should be re- moved by clysters or gentle aperients. A large blister, as the first proper step, may be applied over the seat of the pain ; and should it show a disposition to heal up soon a fresh one ought to be applied somewhere in its imme- diate neighbourhood, so as to keep up a constant effect—a method, in this instance, preferable to keeping up a discharge from the surface of the old blister by means of stimulating oint- ments, as is too frequently practised. Blisters may be used in any stage of the disease, and in many cases where blood-letting cannot be carried far enough, or even not resorted to at all, and in the pleurisies of old people, are very beneficial. At the commencement of this disease opiates would evidently be injurious by interrupting the expectoration, and therefore should not be given until previous bleeding and blistering 'have greatly relieved the pain and difficulty of bi'eathing. In the more advanced stage, where a cough is the only urgent symptom, and proves the principal cause either of the continuance of pain or of the want of sleep, opiates will be highly useful, and may, therefore, be given in the form of a draught, combined with, pectoral medicines, to be taken at about bedtime, as in the follomng form:—Take solution of acetate of ammopia, 6 drachms; mint water, 2 ozs.; tincture of opium, 1^ drachm; syrup of tolu, 2 drachms ; solution of tartarised antimony, ^ drachm. Mix, and take one-half at bedtime. During the whole of the complaint the pa- tient should be confined to bed, lying with his head and shoulders as much elevated as pos- sible ; his chamber kept cool and quiet; and his strength supported with food of a light nutritive natm-e, such as roasted or boiled apples, panado, &c. His drink should be thin gruel and barley water sweetened with honey, or a decoction of liquorice root, in which a small portion of currant jelly may be dissolved to give it a pleasant tartness. The patient, on recovering, should carefully guard against any exposure to cold, or any irregularity which might occasion a relapse; for no inflammation is so apt to reciur as that