f>IG PIG [ 325 ] eage and four bay leaves, cover the back of the pig with slices of bacon, place it in the cloth, and tie it up; put it into a saucepan, pour on it equal quantities of good stock and white wine, and let it simmer for three hoin-s and a half over a moderate fire ; then take it off, and leave it in the saucepan: in an hour's time take it out and press it carefully, so that the shape may not be spoiled. Do not remove the cloth until perfectly cold. Lay a folded napkin on a dish, and serve the pig on it. PIG, TIMBALE OF. Take out the bones and flesh of a nice pig without injuring the skin ; miuce the meat with truffles, ham, bacon, parsley, and shallots: when minced soak it in oil, pepper, and salt. Lay the skin open in a small stewpan, place the farce on it, close the skin round it, and cover it with slices of bacon ; fill the stewpan with good stock, a pint of white wine, sliced carrots, onions, parsley, shallots, garlic, cloves, bay leaf, and thyme. Let it thoi-oughly stew, and serve it either hot or cold. If the latter it must be more highly seasoned, left to cool in the braise, and then turned out on a folded napkin. When sent to table hot serve a sauce Espagnole with it. PIGEON CUTLETS. Take the fillets of six pigeons; remove the thin skin, and beat them very little; take the pinion-bones, clean them, and run them into each of the fillets, giving itthe form of a cutlet; dip them into an Anglaise, that is, the yolks of two eggs mixed with a little butter; then dip them in bread crumbs, put them upon the grill, and give them a good colour. When they are sufficiently done dish them in consomme ; eauce them with beef juice or thick blond de veau; add to the last a little large pepper, and the juice of a lemon or two. These cutlets or fillets may be made an entree of, as a timbale, a pate ohaud, or en papillottes. If for the last the cutlets must be cut in two. PIGEON PIE. Chop some parsley and lemon thyme with a few mushrooms; stew these in a little butter, into which put half a dozen young pigeons, with pepper and salt in their insides, and their legs turned in ; stew them for a few minutes, and then turn them. When they begin to fry put in sufficient consomme to cover them, in which let them stew till they are well done; then take them from the fire to cool. In the meantime make a good puff paste, part of which roll out, and place round the edge of a dish; lay the pigeons in, with the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, and pour over them half of the liquor they were stewed in; add a little pepper and salt, and then lay on the top paste, trimming it neatly round the same as any other pie. On the top form a star of leaves with a hole in the centre ; egg it lightly over, and put it to bake in a moderate oven, taking care that it has not too much colour. When done add, to the liquor that remained from the pigeons a little butter sauce, make it very hot, and pour it on the pie. Serve it hot, either for a remove or a side dish. PIGEON SOUP. Take three plump pigeons, and truss them as for boiling; run a skewer through the head and neck, and keep it upright; then scald and boil them in broth and veal gravy, to which add roots and herbs cut in small pieces; season the whole well, and stew it over a slow fire. When done pour the soup into a tureen, and place the pigeons in it with the heads upwards. PIGEON, WILD (Poelee). Take three or four wild pigeons, truss them with their feet inwards, and line a stewpan with slices of bacon, a thin one of ham, a seasoned bouquet, two onions stuck with cloves, two carrots cut in slices, a glass of white wine, and a little consomme ; put in the pigeons, cover with bacon, and set the whole on a brisk fire. As soon as it boils place it in a stove, with a moderate fire under and over, and let it stand three quarters of an hour; then drain and serve it with a poivi'ade. PIGEON, WOOD. The wood-pigeon is large, and the flesh of a dark colour. It is chosen by the same rules as the tame pigeon. If the wood-pigeon is properly kept, and not over-roasted, the flavour is equal to teal. It should be served with a good gravy. PIGEONS : To Boil. The craw should be taken out as clean as possible, after which the birds must be washed in several waters; then the pinions are to be cutoff, and the legs turned under the wings. Boil them slowly a quarter of an hour, then dish and pour over them some melted butter, and lay around a little broccoli. Serve them with parsley and butter. Other accompaniments may be bacon with greens, spinach, or asparagus. PIGEONS : To Broil. Clean them well, pepper and salt them, lay over a gridiron on a slow clear fire, turn them often, and put some butter in the bellies. When done throw over them some stewed or pickled mushrooms, cat- sup, or melted butter. Garnish with fried crumbs or sippets of bread. PIGEONS : To Cabve. The birds may be Fig. I. Fig. 2. either cut in two lengthways, or across the middle from h to c, fig. 1; but the best method