OLI [ 265 ] OLI Issue Ointment. Mix -J- oz. of Spanish flies, finely powdered, in 6 ozs. of j^ellow basili- con ointment. This ointment is chiefly in- tended for dressing blisters, in order to keep them open during pleasure. Mercurial Ointment. Take of quicksilver 2 ozs.; hog's lard, 3 ozs.; mutton suet, 1 oz. Rub the quicksilver with 1 oz. of the hog's lard m a warm mortar till the globules be perfectly extinguished; then rub it up with the rest of the lard and suet, previously melted together. The principal intention of this ointment is to convey mercury into the body by being rubbed upon the skin. Ointment for Diseases of the Skin. Take of the ointment commonly called unguentum citrinum li drachm; flowers of sulphur and powder of hellebore, of each 1 oz.; hog's lard, 3 ozs. ; essence of lemon or oil of thyme, from 20 to 30 drops, to correct the offensiveness of the smell. Make them into an ointment. We have not only known many ordinary affections of the skin cured by this ointment, but even some of a very malignant nature, and approach- ing to lepi'osy. Ointment of Lead. Take of olive oil ^ pint; white wax, 2 ozs.; sugar of lead, 3 drachms. Let the sugar of lead, reduced into a fine powder, be rubbed up with some part of the oil, and afterwards added to the other ingre- dients, previously melted together, continually stirring them till quite cold. This cooling and gently astringent ointment may be used in all cases where the intention is to dry and skin over the part, as in scalding, &c. Ointment of Sulphur. Take of hog's lard prepared 4 ozs.; flowers of sulphur, 1^ oz.; crude sal ammoniac, 2 drachms ; essence of lemon, 10 or 12 drops. Make them into an ointment. This ointment, rubbed upon the parts affected, will generally cure the itch. It is both the safest and best application for that purpose, and, when made in this way, has no disagreeable smell. White or Spermaceti Ointment. Take of olive oil 1 pint; white wax and spermaceti, of each 3 ozs. Melt them with a gentle heat, and keep constantly and briskly stirring them together till quite cold. If 2 drachms of camphor, previously rubbed with a small quan- tity of oil, he added to the above, it will make the white camphorated ointment. OLIBANUM. It is now a pretty well- ascertained fact that the resin called olibanum, which is the frankincense used by the Jews and other ancient churches in their religious cere- monies, is the produce of Boswellia serrata and B. papyri/era, and not, as Linnaeus supposed, of Juniperus Lycia. The first of these is a native of Amboyna and several of the moun- tainous parts of India, growing to the height of forty feet, and yielding what is called Indian olibanum. The second is found on the east coast of Africa, in Abyssinia, growing at an elevation of one thousand feet, on the bare limestone rocks, to which the roots attach themselves by a thick mass of vegetable substance, thrown out from the base of the stem, which sends roots into the crevices of the rock to an immense depth. Its bark consists of four layers, the two middle ones being of a fine texture, transparent like oiled paper, and employed by the Soumalis to write upon. It is this tree which produce" the African olibanum. Indian olibanum is ir the form of yellowish, somewhat translucent, roundish tears, larger than those of the African, and generally covered with a whitish powder, produced by friction. It has a balsamic, resinous smell, and an acrid, bitterish, somewhat aromatic taste. When chewed it softens in the mouth, adheres to the teeth, and partially dissolves in the saliva, which it renders milky ; and it burns with a brilliant flame and a fragrant odour. Arabian or African olibanum is in the form of yellowish tears, and irregular reddish lumps or fragments. The tears are generally small, oblong, or roundish, not very brittle, with a dull and heavy fracture, softening in the mouth, and bearing much resemblance to mastich, from which, however, they difl'er in their want of transpai'ency. The reddish masses soften in the hand, have a stronger taste and smell than the tears, and are often mixed with fragments of hark and small crystals of carbonate of lime. Alcohol dissolves nearly three-fourths of oli banum, and the tincture is transparent. It is chiefly employed for fumigations, and enters into the composition of some popular plasters; it is also considered stimulant, like the other resins. A coarse resin is obtained from Bos- wellia glabra, which is used, boiled with oil, for pitching the bottoms of ships. OLIO, FRENCH. Take 5 lbs. of steaks cut very thick from the leg-of-mutton piece of beef; put them into a deep stewpan, add 5 lbs. of any part of veal, and a leg of mutton of about 6 lbs. or 7 lbs., which must be skinned, and have the fat taken off'; cover the stewpan closely, and set it over the stove with a very moderate fire; let it stand till the gravy begins to run; stir up the fire, and continue stewing till the meat begins to stick to the pan, but not longer, as it should not be too brown. Pour a little beef gravy into it, and stir it about. When thoroughly mixed put it into a pot, set it upon the fire, very closely covered, with a sufficient quantity of gravy to fill the pot. Then take twelve carrots, nine parsnips, eight onions, and six turnips ; put these into the pot, with a bunch of leeks, a bundle of celery, and a handful of mignonette; let these