POT [ 358 ] PO W fire ; then have ready a large piece of bread ■well toasted on both sides, and put it into the butter, stirring it well, and passing it with a toasting-fork over the inner surface of the bottom of the vessel. In less than five minutes the bread may be taken out, when the butter \yill be quite sweet, but the bread will be fetid. It appears that the rancidity in butter proceeds from the decomposition of the milk and other substances remaining in it, which are absorbed by the bread. In preparing potted meats you should have no clarified butter ready: you can prepare some at once by putting the butter into a butter-boat, • placing this vessel in a stewpan of boiling water, and pouring the butter, when melted, from the milk, which sinks to the bottom. Clarified butter, in potting, must always be hot and in a liquid state, unless the contrary is specified. POTTERY. See Earihenwakk. POULTICE. Cataplasm.) Mrs. Parkes gives these good directions for applying them :—• Poultices are intended to assist the suppura- tion of inflammatory tumours which cannot be put back; and they are used, too, for softening the lips of ulcers tliat have been hardened by a thick and acrid discharge. They therefore require to be large, soft, hot, and frequently renewed. Some poultices are made by boiling together crumbs of bread and milk or water, and adding a small quantity of oil or lard. Others are made by simply mixing a quantity of linseed meal with as much boiling water as will make it into a moderately thick paste. For the sake of cleanliness a piece of thin gauze should be placed between the poultice and the part to which it is to be applied, provided the part affected be not ulcerated. A poultice should not be so thin as to run or spread, nor so thick as to become soon dry and hard. When a poultice is intended to promote suppuration it should be renewed as soon as it gets cool. POULTICE, CHARCOAL. Charcoal re- cently ignited and cooled in a close vessel, mixed with simple poultice. In fetid and gangrenous sores, frequently renewed. POULTICE, HEMLOCK. E.nract of hem- lock, 2 ozs.: water, 1 pint. Dissolve, and thicken with linseed meal. In painful nipples, cancer, glandular tumours, irritable sores, &c. POULTICE, MUSTARD. Equal parts of flour of mustard and linseed meal, made into a poultice with hot vinegar. As a powerful counter-irritant, stimulant, and rubefacient in low fevers, &c. It should not be left o^ long enough to raise a blister. POULTRY, TIMBALE OY. Prepare, bone, and cut up two chickens or rabbits; dab them in bacon, and season with minced parsley, seal- lions, shallots, mushrooms or truffles, spices. pepper, and salt. Put the ingredients into a stewpan with butter, and harden the meat white in it; moisten with a glass of white wine and two large spoonsful of Espagnole or good stock, and let them simmer till done enougli; then set them to cool. Butler a mould of sufficient size, and line it with rolled paste, beginumg at the middle of the bottom, and continuing to go round till it comes to the top. The rolls of paste must lie firmly over each other. Have ready a piece of thin paste to lay in the bottom , make it an inch larger, that it may come up the sides till they nearly reach the top ; put in the meat, with the seasoning, and cover it, wetting and fixing it firmly. Dress it round the edge. When ready to dish cut it neatly open at the top, and put in a nice sauce of reduced Espagnole, or cover it with a sweetbread or mushroom ragout. POUNCE. Finely powdered cuttle-fish bone used to be much used for drying writing ink quickly. To facilitate writing on parchment this is rubbed with powdered gum juniper. For liquid pounce see Ink, Indelible. POUPELIN. Put into a saucepan four glasses of water, \ lb. of butter, the zest of a lemon, and a pinch of fine salt; set it on the fire, and as soon as it begins to boil take it off, and put in as much sifted flour as will make a paste of the consistence of choux; then replace it on the fire, and keep stirring till it dries. Make a similar mixture, and when that is also dry put both into a mortar, with | lb. of powder sugar, I oz. of orange flowers, and two eggs at a time until five-and-twenty or thirty are used, by which time the paste will be of the proper con- sistence ; then pour it into a lightly buttered tin, put it into a moderate oven, and leave it. In three hours' time, if the poupelin is of a nice gold colour, take it out, cut off the top, and with a spoon remove all the inside; then set it in the oven to dry. When cold spread all over the interior apricot marmalade, on which strew sweet macaroons crushed; then turn it on a dish and serve.. POWDERS. This is one of the most simple forms in which medicine can be administered. Many medicinal substances, however, cannot be reduced into powder, and others are too dis- agreeable to be taken in this form. The lighter powders may be mixed in any agreeable thin liquor, as tea or water gruel. The more pon- derous will require a more consistent vehicle, as syrup, conserve, jelly, or honey. Gums, and other substances which are difficult to powder, should be pounded along with the drier ones; but those which are too dry, especially aromatics, ought to be sprinkled during their pulverisation with a few drops of any proper water. Ai'oniatic powders are to be prepared only in small quan-