LIF LIF [ 147 ] LIFE-PRESERVER. A name given to several inventions for the preservation of per- sons in danger of drowning from shipwreck and other accidents. The life-preserver invented by Mr. Daniel is made of pliable waterproof leather, and double throughout. The head of the wearer is to pass between two straps which rest upon the shoulders, and his arms are to pass through the spaces on the outside of the straps, so as to allow the machine under them to encircle the body like a large hollow belt. On the lower part of the back is a strap which is to pass between the thighs of the wearer, and buckle in front. The machine, thus fixed, is to be filled with air by the mouth of the wearer, who is to continue blowing thi'ough a stop-cock in the front of the machine till it is fully inflated; the air is then confined by turning the cock. The person wearing this machine floats about breast high in the water with per- fect ease and freedom, and may move about at pleasure. When it is well filled with air from the lungs it is capable of preventing four persons from sinking under water. Another life-preserver has been suggested by Mr. Grant, for which the Society of Arts awarded him their gold medal. It consists in the conversion of a ship's water-cask to this purpose, and which has been found adequate to its important design. The method is simple, the expense trifling, and requires no care; indeed, all the ship's water-casks now in use could be converted into life-preservers upon this plan in a few hours. The cask is attached to a bed composed of wood, which is nearly square, by lashing only, without a single nail in any part of it. The bung-hole of the cask should be made in the shape of an oblong square, and large enough to admit a man's arm. It should be sawed out of a piece of inch-thick cork, and fitted nicely with a wood file. The top of the bung must be covered with a piece of sheet iron about one-eighth of an inch in thick- ness ; a hinge and hasp are to be cut out of the same, and the iron plate riveted through the thickest part of the cork by five small rivets, the centre one having an eye upon the top, to which the forelock which receives the bung is fastened. The bed and bung once completed, and fourteen iron thin)bles and five dozen bot- tle corks procured, all the rest is sailors' work. Independently of the bed and all the other apparatus, 1^ lb. of cast iron is necessary to every gallon of air for ballast, and three gallons of air for each man. For instance, a thirty- six gallon cask requires eight feet of 1^-inch Blank, six fathoms of two-inch rope, fifteen fathoms of inch line, five dozen corks, and 63 lbs. of cast iron for ballast. This will support twelve men in sea water, it is always at hand, occupies no more than the usual space, and no part of the apparatus is in the way. The corks are attached to the lines to make them float, and prevent the hand from slipping. Loops are also made around the cask with the cork line for the convenience of holding fast. It is scarcely possible to convey the particulars of this apparatus without a drawing; and those who desire a minute account will, of course, consult the thirty-sixth volume of the " Transactions of the Society of Arts," from which this descrip- tion is taken. We merely add that, when ? case of danger occurs, it is only necessary to cut the deck-lashing of the cask, to discharge the water, to secure the bung, and throw the cask overboard; the land being to leeward, the wind and sea will set the cask and men towards the shore. From the manner in which the cask is fixed it will always float steadily, and cannot roll or upset. LIFE - RAFT. A raft contrived as the pre- ceding article, for the purpose of saving the lives of persons in danger of drowning from ship- wreck, &c. The life-raft invented by Mr. T.Cook, and described in the thirty-seventh volume of the " Transactions of the Society of Arts," consists of a square piece of canvas, containing holes for the men to sit in, with strengthening bands for them to sit on. Two sides of the canvas are nailed; the other two sides are laced to a square frame, which takes apart at two corners, that it may be rolled up with the canvas in a very small compass. The casks, which should be those used for holding the ship's water, are secured, one at each corner, by slings and a strapping- line. This raft has the advantage of being fitted in a few minutes, at a time when a few minutes might decide the fate of the crew, who are not required to lash themselves, but merely to sit astride on the bands, being well buoyed up, and to remain quiet till driven on shore by the wind and waves; neither can they be washed off if ever so benumbed with cold. A raft of seven feet square will carry thirteen men; one of four feet six inches square will carry five men, with casks in proportion. Another life-raft is also described in the same volume by Mr. T. W. Rodger, which is formed of four casks, as in the former case, but it is constructed of such materials besides as every vessel is obliged to take to sea for other pur- poses, viz., slings, capstan bars, gratings, or hatches, and handspikes, lashed together with small ropes or gaskets. Casks of any size may be used, and small spars, such as boat-masts, top-gallants, studdiug-sail booms, topmast stud- ding-sail yards, and many more which it is unnecessary to enumerate, may be substituted for capstan bars. The raft is to be constructed upon deck thus : —While part of the crew are