[ MO ] MAE MAR Salmon. Previously to giving directions for choosing a salmon it may not be improper to make a few remarks on the choice of fish in general. In order to discover whether they are fresh or stale take notice of the colour of the gills, which should be of a lively red ; whether they are hard or easy to be opened, the projec- tion or indentation of their eyes, the stiffness or limberness of their fins, and the scent from their gills. The flesh of a salmon, when new, is of a fine red, and particularly so at the gills. The scales should be bright and the fish very stiff. The spring is the proper season for the salmon, which is then of a fine, rich, and plea- sant flavour. Skate. This fish, if it be too fresh, will eat very tough ; and if stale it has a strong and disagreeable scent. When perfectly good and sweet the flesh will look exceedingly white, and be thick and firm. Smelts. If smelts be fresh they will be very firm, will have a peculiarly strong smell, greatly resembling that of a pared cucumber, and will be of a fine silver hue. Snipes are chosen by the same rule as wood- cocks. Soles. Soles, if good, are thick and firm, and the belly of a cream colour ; but if they are flabby, or incline to a bluish white, they are not good. Midsummer is the proper season for this fish. Stuegeon. The flesh of this fiish is very little white, and has a few blue veins, the grain even, the skin tender, good coloured, and soft. All the veins and gristles should be blue ; for when they are brown and yellow, the skiu harsh, tough, and dry, the fish is not good. It has a pleasant smell when in perfection, but a very disagreeable one when bad. It should also cut firmly without crumbling. The females are as full of roe as a carp. Swans. When they are young they are called cygnets, and if kept in a little pond, and well fed with corn, their flesh will not only alter its blackness, but also be freed of its unwholesome- ness. They are generally skinned, and the flesh potted or made into pies. They are much ad- mired in Muscovy and East Friesland. Swans' flesh was forbidden the Jews, because by them the hieroglyphical sages described hypocrisy; for as a swan has the whitest feathers and blackest flesh of any bu'd, so the hearts of hypocrites are contrary to their outward appearance. It was not, therefore, for the badness of their flesh, but for resembling wicked mens' minds they were forbidden. Tame Ducks. When they are stale their foet will feel diy; but if newly killed they will be limber footed. The tame has a thicker foot than the wild duck, somewhat blackish, inclining to yellow. Ducklings are related to ducks as chickens are to hens. They are always scalded, and if you meet with them so ready prepared in a poulterer's shop, rub your finger on the breast: if it feels rough they are newly killed; but if it feels slippery or slimy they are stale killed. Their age cannot deceive you. Teal. For newness and staleness as the wild duck. They feel thick and hard on the belly when fat, but if they feel thin on the belly then they are lean. Tench. Tench should be dressed alive in order to be eaten in perfection ; but if they be dead examine the gills, which should be red and hard to open. The eyes wiU be bright, and the body firm and stiff if fresh. They are generally covered with a kind of slimy matter, which, if clean and bright, is a proof of their being good. Rubbing them with a little salt will easily re- move tliis slimy matter. Teout. The females of this excellent fresh- water fish are held most in esteem, and are dis- tinguished by having a smaller head and deeper body than the males. The best sort are red and yellow. They are in high perfection the latter part of June. TuRBOT. This fish, if good, will be thick and plump, and the belly of a yellowish white ; but if they appear thin and bluish they are bad. This fish is in season duiing the greatest part of the summer, and is in high estimation. Tueket. If a turkey cock be young he has a smooth, blackish leg, and a short spur; but if old he has a sharp spur and red legs. When stale he is dry footed, and his eyes are sunk in his head; but if he be newly killed his eyes wiU stand firmly in his head, as if he were alive. 'If a hen turkey be old her legs wiU be red, and will have a rugged grain. If full of eggs she is soft and open vented; if hard vented, not full of eggs. She is preferred before the cock : her legs are not so coarse. As for newness and staleness, the same as the cock; and the same for turkey poults. Their age cannot deceive you. A turkey is a dainty dish, and worthy a prince's table. It eats best in winter, and should be hung at least three days. Its flesh recovers strength, nourishes plentifully, and agrees with every person and complexion, except such as are of too hot a constitution, or inclined to rheumatism or gout. Veal is generally preferred of a delicate whiteness ; but in our opinion it is more juicy and well flavoured when of a deeper coloui". The butchers are said to bleed calves profusely in order to produce this white meat; but this practice must certainly deprive the meat of some of its nourishment and flavour. When you