[ 59 ] ICE ICE asatetida, ^ oz.; and as much syrup of saffxon as is sufficient. Beat them together, and make them into five-grain pills. These pills are excellent as anti-hysterics, and for suppressions and ohstructions. Four or more may be taken every night, or oftener. Compound spirit of lavender. Take of spirit of lavender 3 lbs.; spirit of rosemary, 1 lb.; cin- namon and nutmeg, of each J oz.; red sanders, 3 drachms. Digest for ten days, and strain off. This is often taken upon sugar, and is a salutary cordial, far preferable to drams, which are too often had recourse to by persons feeling a great sinking or depression of spirits in hysteric affections. I. ICE: To Prepare. {See Freezing Mix- tures.) Take a few pounds of ice, break it almost to powder, and throw in among it a large handful and a half of salt. You must prepare it in the coolest part of the house, that as little warm air as possible may be admitted. The ice and salt being in a bucket, put your cream into an ice pot, cover it, immerse it in the ice, and draw it round the pot so that it may touch every part. In a few minutes put a spatula or spoon in, and stir it well, removing the parts that ice round the edges of the centre. If the ice cream or water be in a form shut the bottom closely, and move the whole in the ice, as you cannot use a spoon to that without danger of waste. There should be holes in the bucket to let the ice off as it thaws. ICE CREAM, BARBERRY. Put a spoon- ful of barberry jam into a basin with one pint of cream, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and mix the whole, with the addition of some cochineal to colour it. Put it into the freezing pot, and, having covered it, place it in a pail in the middle of the ice, over which throw some salt; turn the pot round for ten minutes, then open and scrape it from the sides, cover it again, and keep turning till the cream is as thick as butter; put it into butter, pour it into moulds, and set them in a pail covered with ice and salt for three quarters of an hour, till the water comes up to the top. Use plenty of salt, or the cream will not freeze. Dip the mould in water, and turn out the cream on a plate when about to send it to table. ICE CREAM BISCUIT. Take some pieces of broken loaf sugar, and rub off on them the yellow rind of four lemons ; then pulverise the sugar, and mix it with |lb. of loaf sugar 'already powdered. Have ready eight small Naples biscuits or sponge cakes grated finely, and stir them in turn with the sugar into a quart of cream. Give the whole one boil up, then put it into a freezer, and freeze it in the usual manner. Afterwards transfer it to a pyramid mould, and freeze it a second time. Similar ice cream may be made with macaroons broken small and dissolved in the cream, from whence half a pint must be previously taken, and boiled with a handful of broken-up bitter almonds. Afterwards strain this, and mix it with the rest. ICE CREAM CAKES. Stir together till very light \ lb. of powder sugar and \ lb. of fresh butter; beat six eggs very lightly, and stir into them half a pint of rich milk ; add gradually the eggs and milk to the butter and sugar, alternately with ^ lb. of sifted flour, and then a glass of sweet wine and some grated nutmeg. When all the ingredients are mixed stir the batter very hard, then put it into small deep pans or cups that have been well buttered, filling them about two- thirds with the batter; put them immediately into a brisk oven, and bake brown. When done remove them from the cups, and place them to cool on an inverted sieve. When quite cold make a slit or incision in the side of each cake. If very light and properly baked they will be hollow in the middle. Fill up this cavity with ice cream carefully put in with a spoon, and then close the slit with your finger to prevent the cream running out. Spread the cakes on a large dish, and either send them to table imme- diately before the ice cream melts, or keep them on ice till wanted. ICE CREAM, CHOCOLATE. Scrape down J lb. of the best chocolate, put it into a sauce- pan, and pour on it a pint of boiling milk; stir and mix it well and smoothly ; then set it over the fire, and let it come to a boil. Mix together in a pan ^ lb. of powdered loaf sugar and a pint of rich cream. In another pan beat very lightly the yolks of nine eggs. Afterwards gradually stir the beaten egg into the cream and sugar, and then put the mixture into a saucepan ; stir in by degrees the chocolate, set it over the fire, and simmer it till it is just ready to come to a boil; strain it through a sieve, transfer it to a freezer, and freeze it in the usual manner of ice cream. ICE CREAM, PEACH. Take five soft freestone peaches perfectly ripe, pare them, and remove the stones; crack about half the stones, and extract the kernels, which must be blanched by putting them into a bowl, and pour- ing on boiling water to loosen the skins ; then break them up or pound them slightly, put them into a little saucepan, and boil the kernels in a small quantity of rich milk till it is highly flavoured with them, keeping the saucepan covered; strain out the kernels, and set the milk to cool. Put the peaches in a large, broad, shallow pan or a flat dish, and chop them very