IDI [ 62 ] ICI ICING FOR A LARGE CAKE. Beat the whites of twenty fresh eggs, and then by degrees beat in 1 lb. of double-refined sugar sifted through a lawn sieve ; mix these well in a deep earthen vessel, and add orange-flower water and a piece of fresh lemon-peel. Do not use more of the orange-flower water than is just sufficient to flavour it; whisk it for three hours till the mixture is thick and white; then with a thin bit of board spread it all over the top and sides, and set it in a cool oven. An hour will harden it. ICING FOR TARTS AND PIES. Just before you put the tarts into the oven beat up the white of an egg till it comes to a stiff' froth ; wash over the tops of the tarts with it, using a quill feather or paste brush, and sift white sugar over the egg. ICING WINE. " The Butler," in Messrs. Houlstonand Stoneman's "Industrial Library," makes the following very sensible remarks :— Icing wines must not be done indiscriminately; therefore, in this respect, you had better be guided by the orders you receive. Some wines may be iced with advantage, such as the highly effervescing champagne wines. Claret and port require a little warmth. In summer sherry and some other wines may be cooled by being placed in ice and water, but it is disputed whether any but common wine should be iced. Bur- gundy is considered best at the temperature in which it is taken from the cellar. It is better to cool the glasses with small lumps of Wenham Lake ice than it is to ice choice wines. Prevent the wines from getting warm, but do not ice them without orders. IDIOTCY. Individuals labouring under con- genital idiotism are mai-ked by some striking characters. At its commencement it is indi- cated both by feebleness of body and feebleness of mind. In some countries this melancholy disease is not uncommon, and it has been par- ticularly remarked in the Valais in Switzerland, and in Carinthia. In the former country the subjects of it are styled cretins. But wherever found, whether in individual instances, or ori- ginating in some national cause, the appearance may generally be described as follows :— The skull is usually smaller and inferior in height to the skull of maniacs, and there is a great disproportion between the face and head, the former being much larger than the latter. The countenance is vacant and destitute of meaning, the complexion sickly, the stature usually dimi- nutive, the lips and eyelids coarse and promi- nent, the skin wrinkled and pendulous, and the muscles loose and flabby. To these are usually added a complication of other diseases. The subjects are rickety, scrofulous, or epileptic ; the eyes are squinting or convulsive; and the hearing is impeifect or totally destroyed. Dr. Reeve visited the Valais, and saw several of these unhappy beings. One lad, twelve years old, could speak a few words, but was silly, and of a weak and feeble habit. Another boy, nine years old, was deaf, dumb, and idiotic. Neither of these, however, had goitres. A third, a girl, twelve years old, was deaf, dumb, and cross-eyed, and had a monstrous goitre ; while a fourth had an enlarged abdomen, and some feeble traces of understanding. While some are dumb, others express them- selves in inarticulate sounds, cries, or a prolonged roar. A few are able to utter a word or two distinctly, as with the idiot mentioned by Esqui- rol. This was a female, aged twenty-one years, who had been in the Salpetriere three years without any change. Her head was large and irregularly shaped, and the forehead high and prominent, so that the facial angle was more than ninety degrees. She ate voraciously, and without discrimination, passed all evacuations involuntarily, but the menses were regular and abundant. She walked little, and all her move- ments were convulsive. She was a perfectly helpless infant, insensible to heat, cold, rain, or even her own internal feelings. She could only utter the words " papa " and " mamma," which she frequently repeated. Dr. Rush relates the case of a boy born near Philadelphia, which is no less striking. He was twenty years old when that distinguished phy- sician published his work, and was then unable to walk or speak. He had the head of a man, but all the parts below it resembled those of a child two or three years old. His pulse was from ninety to one hundred and twenty in a minute. He had shed his teeth, and now ex- hibited a third set, in three distinct rows, in his upper jaw; and yet, with all this, he was unable to chew his food, and all that he took of a solid nature was first chewed for him by his sister. His ears were very large. When hungry or in pain he cried, but more commonly laughed for hours, and even for whole nights together, and so loudly as to disturb the sleep of bis family. He discovers mind, says Dr. Rush, in but three things, viz., in an affection for his mother and sister, and in love for a dog and for money. Distress is manifest when the dog is out of his place, and the pleasure which money gives him is owing to the association he has been enabled to form between it and the means of procuring gingerbread, of which he is fond. We must not, however, be understood as stating that all who belong to the class of idiots are dis- tinguished by equally striking marks. There is a variety in this as in other diseases. Some approach to the description of dementia, or what is commonly called imbecility/; othei"s appear