PAR PAS r' 300 1 the skin, beat them •with the handle of the knife ; then take the pinion-bones, scrape and thrust them into the ends of the fillets. Melt a sufBcient quantity of butter in a frying-pan, put in the fillets, sprinkle them with a little salt, and brown them lightly. Having drained the fillets, let the butter cool a little, and add to it the yolks of two eggs; dip your fillets in this, bread and place them on a gridiron over hot ashes, and colour both sides. Dish them en couronne, and serve with a clear reduced fumet or sauce au diahle. PARTRIDGES A L'ESPAGNOLE. Put \ lb. of butter, the juice of a lemon, a little pepper, and a slice of ham in a stewpan ; add the partridges, and set them on a slow fire that they may not take colour. In a little while put them in six ladlesful of Espagnole, half a bottle of white wine, a bay leaf, parsley, scal- lions, and a clove. When these have simmered three quarters of an hour take out the birds, lay them in a dish, and having cleared away the fat, and reduced the sauce to half, strain it over and serve. PARTRIDGES, GELATINE OF. Take all the meat of a small leveret; put aside the fillets, of which make a scallop; weigh the re- mainder of the meat, and mince it with double its weight of fat bacon and \ lb. of ham. When mixed add a sufficient quantity of salt and the yolk of an egg. Bone three fine partridges, spread them open on a napkin, make them of as equal thickness as you can by paring away the thicker parts, and laying pieces on those which are thinner; season them well with the spiced salt, put on each a sixth part of the farce, spread this all over their surface, and lay on it three truffles cut in halves, which make six pieces for every bird wrap each of these pieces in a bit of pork caul, and in the space between place some of the scallop of leveret; season, and lay the remainder of the farce over. Sew up the partridges in their original form, wrap each in slices of bacon, and then in a linen cloth ; tie them up, and place them in a stewpan lined with bacon ; put in the bones of the leveret and partridges, four onions, four carrots, a bunch of parsley, scallions, thyme, bay leaf, basil, four cloves, two calf's feet, a sufficient quantity of consomme to cover the surface of the gelatine, a glass of dry Madeira, and two . dessert-spoonsful of old brandy; cover the > whole with a buttered paper, set it on a • brisk fire, and let it simmer gently for two hours: at the end of that time take it off. When nearly cold drain it, and when quite so remove the wrappers, trim the birds lightly, and glaze them; put them properly on a dish, ornament them, and then dish with jelly accord- ing to your taste. PARTRIDGES, MINCED. Take the fillets from eight roasted partridges, which mince and put into a saucepan; make a light roux, in which put the livers and lights of the birds, a bay leaf, a clove, three shallots, and a little sage; give them a few turns, and then add two large glasses of stock ; reduce the sauce to half; strain and put it to the mince, stirring till it is thick and smooth; make it hot, but not boiling. Serve it with fried bread, and garnish your dish with either poached or hard eggs. PARTRIDGES, POTTED. Let your par- tridges be thoroughly cleaned, and then season _ them with mace, allspice, white pepper, and salt in fine powder. Rub every part well, lay them in a pan with the breast downwards, packing the birds as closely as possible, and put plenty of butter over them; then cover the pan with a coarse flour paste, put a paper over that closely down, and bake. When cold put the birds into pots, and cover them with butter. PARTRIDGES, QUENELLES OF. Take the skin and sinews from three young partridges; mince and pound them well together; rub it through a sieve, and mix it with equal quantities of panada and calf's udder. Pound all three together till thoroughly incorporated, then add one yolk and two whole eggs, season to your taste, and poach as usual. PARTRIDGES, SALMIS OF. Take four roasted partridges, cut them in pieces as neatly as possible, and put them into a stewpan; bruise the remnants, and put them into another saucepan, with six ladlesful of Espagnole, six shallots, a glass of white wine, a little parsley, a bay leaf, a glass of stock, pepper, and salt; set this on a brisk fire, and when reduced to half strain it over the partridges ; then make the whole hot, but do not let it boil. Dish your salmis, dip some fried or toasted bread in the sauce, and lay it on the top. PARTRIDGES WITH TRUFFLES. Pre- pare three or four partridges with truffles in the inside the same as directed for Pheasant with Teuffles, only, instead of roasting, stew them in a good braise ; then, having a few truffles well pre- pared, and mixed in good brown sauce, squeeze in a lemon, and when very hot pour the whole over the partridges, and serve. PASSIONS. Passions operate upon the body either suddenly, or slowly and gradually. Sudden death or imminent danger of life may be the consequence of the former; a gradual decline and consumption that of the latter. The passions, as such, may be aptly divided into two principal classes—those of an agreeable and of a disagreeable nature. Men of strong imagina- tion chiefly suffer from passions of the violent kind, while those of more understanding and