SLE SLO [ 4^5 ] own choice. Some dietetical observers allege that it is better to lie in the evening on the right, and in the morning on the left side, that in the evening the aliment may more readily leave the stomach, and that afterwards this organ may be better warmed by the liver. SLEEPLESSNESS may often be removed by putting the feet into hot water just before getting into bed, or, if that fails, by pressing firmly with the finger upon the carotid artery. SLEEVE. In "The Dress-Maker," pre- viously quoted, are the following directions :— Sleeves are commonly cut neither quite the straight way of the material, nor on the full cross, but between the two. To prevent the join stretching, and to give it firmness, it is usually joined with a cording. When you stitch up your sleeve you must be careful to keep all the edges together of the silk, the lining, and the cording. Then you will have to make the cuff or wrist- band. It will have a lining of leno, or founda- tion muslin—less stiff than buckram, but stiff enough to give it firmness. You will tack the silk and muslin together, and put on a cording all round, and then it will be ready to set on the sleeve. In the case of a wristband you turn down the silk face of the wristband upon the silk face of the sleeve, and stitch it on so that the cording remains visible between the two, when the wristband is turned up into its place. The lining of the wristband is then felled down upon the wrong side of the sleeve. In the case of a pointed cuff you must fasten down the raw edge of the cording by herring- boning it upon the lining of the cuff, as theie is no way of fastening it upon the sleeve. The point of the cuff is then to be tacked to tlie sleeve, so that no stitches may be seen on the right side. Plaiting is merely laying your material in folds in an even range, as is done at present with the skirts of gowns at the waistband. You have to fold the top of your sleeve into as many small plaits as will bring it to the size of the arm hole it is to fit into, the under part, for at least two inches on each side of the join, being left to be set in plain without any plaits. You will pin each plait as you lay it, taking care to make all of the same depth, and that they lie quite even. Then you will tack them down, take out the pins, and go on to pin down your plaits again below, where they will be confined by a strap or by stitching ; tlien, when this is tacked, perhaps you may have to lay a third row. This is work which requires much neat- ness, since one wry plait spoils the look of the whole. Gauging is easier than plaiting. Gauging means gathering, which is to be fastened by loop- stitch on the outside, or by a strap. If the gathers are taken up evenly on the needle they arrange themselves when the gathering thread is drawn up, and the material gently pulled above and below, so as to sort the gathers. The gathering thread must, of course, be securely fastened, and then the gathers are fixed in their places by loop-stitch, or by a strap laid on. SLOE. The sloe tree, or blackthorn [Prnnus spinosa), is more useful than is usually estimated. The wood is hard and tough, on which account it is usefully converted into walking-sticks, teeth for rakes, and turnery ware. Dr. Withering observes that, from the effects which follow the punctures made by the thorns of this tree, he has reason to believe they contain some poisonous matter, especially if such wounds be inflicted in autumn. The young and tender leaves, when dried, afford, in his opinion, the best substitute for the foreign teas. If bruised and infused in currant or raisin wine, sloes impart a beautiful red colour, and a pleasant, rough, subacid taste, resembling that of port wine—a fact too well known -to the dealers in that favourite and expensive liquor. Characters impressed on linen or woollen cloth with the juice of the fruit are said to be permanent. On adding green vitriol to this liquid the shade is not changed ; but if it be employed for writing on paper or dyeing linen, and afterwards exposed to the air, an indelible black colour will be the result, and which is superior to that obtained from the best galls. The dried berries of the blackthorn dye linen of a red hue, which, on repeated washmg, changes to a durable light Hue. The bark boiled in lye also yields a red tinge ; and, in order to facilitate the decortication of tiiis shrub, it ouglit to be effected in the spring. A decoction of the root, on adding a solution of bismuth, communicates a chmamon shade to wool. The blackish bark is further useful for preserving cheese from corruption—a fact at- tested by Bechstein. The same rind, together with the unripe berries, may be advantageously used in tanning. In a medicinal respect a handful of the flowers of the sloe tree, either infused in water or boiled in milk, and strained, affords a draught which operates as a safe and gentle pm-gative. According to Dr. Withering, the bark, when reduced to powder, and administered in doses of 2 drachms each, has cured some species of the ague. An inspissated extract of the same sub- stance forms an excellent astringent, which is frequently employed on the continent as a sub- stitute for the more expensive, but less efficacious Indian drugs of this description ; and it is highly probable that such preparation might, in many cases, be employed with safety instead of the