JAP [ 88 ] JAP it a sufficient body of colour to hide the surface of whatever it is laid upon. This is repeated till the inequalities are filled up ; then the work is cleaned off with Dutch rushes, and polished with a wet rag. When wood or leather is japanned, and no priming used, the best preparation is to lay on two or three coats of coarse varnish, composed in the following manner;—Take 1 pint of recti- fied spirits of wine, and coarse seed-lac and resin, of each 2 ozs. Dissolve the seed-lac and resin in the spirit, and then strain off the var- nish. This varnish, like all others formed of spirit of wine, must be laid on in a warm place, and if it can be conveniently managed the piece of work to be varnished should also be made warm. For the same reason all dampness should be avoided, as cold or moisture chills this varnish, and prevents its taking hold of the substance on which it is laid. When the work is so prepared, or by the priming with the composition of size and whiting above described, the proper japan ground must be laid on. This is best formed of shellac varnish and the colour desired, except white, which requires a peculiar treatment; and if brightness be wanted other means must be pursued. The colours used with the shellac varnish may be any pig- ments which give the tint of the ground desired. As metals never require to be under-coated with whiting they are treated in the same man- ner as wood or leather. Oeange Japan Grounds. Orange-coloured japan grounds are formed by mixing vermilion or red-lead with King's yellow, or Dutch pink, or the orange lake, which will make the brightest oi ange ground that can be produced. Purple Japan Grounds. Purple japan grounds are produced by the mixture of lake and Prussian blue; of a darker hue by ver- milion and Prussian blue. With respect to the varnish they are treated as the others. Red Japan Grounds. For a scarlet japan ground vermilion is used ; but it has a glaring effect, much less beautiful than the crimson produced by glazing it over with carmine, fine lake, or rose pink. For a bright crimson, instead of glazing with carmine, use Indian lake, dissolved in the spirit of which the varnish is compounded. In this case, instead of glazing with the shellac varnish, the polishing coats are only used, as they equally receive and convey the tinge of the Indian lake, which may be dissolved by spirits of wine; but if the highest degree^ of whiteness is required use the white varnish. The Method of Painting Japan Work. Japan work should be painted with colours in varnish, though for despatch, and in nice work where a freer use of the pencil is required, the colours are tempered in oil; but the oil should previously have a fourth part of its weight of gum animi, or gum sandarach, or gum mas- tic dissolved in it. When the oil is thus used it is diluted with oil of turpentine, for the colours to lay evenly and thinly. By this means fewer of the polishing or upper coats of varnish become necessary. Water colours are, in some instances, laid on grounds of gold. When so used these are best without any varnish over them; and they are also sometimes managed to have the effect of embossed work. The colours thus employed for painting are prepared with isinglass size, corrected by honey or sugar candy. The body of the embossed work, which is raised, is not tinged with the exterior colour, but formed of strong gum water, thickened to a proper con- sistence by equal parts of bole Armenian and whiting. This gum is laid on the proper figure, and repaired when dry; and the whole may then be painted with the proper colours, temperel with the isinglass size or shellac varnish. TORTOISESHELL JaPAN GrOUND FORMED BY Heat. The best tortoiseshell ground pro- duced by heat is valuable for its great hardness and its beautiful appearance. Besides, it endures to be made hotter than boiling water without damage. It is made by means of a varnish prepared thus :—Take one gallon of good linseed oil, and of umber ^ lb.; boil them together till the oil becomes brown and thick; strain ic through a coarse cloth, and boil it again till it acquires a pitchy consistence, when it will be fit for use. Having prepared the varnish, clean well the iron or copper plate, or other pieces which are to be japanned; then lay vermilion tempered with shellac varnish, or with drying oil diluted with oil of turpentine, very thinly on the plates intended to imitate the more trans- parent parts of the tortoiseshell. AVhen the vermilion is dry brush the whole over with the varnish made to a true consistence with oil of turpentine, and when it is set and firm put the work into a stove, where it may undergo a very strong heat for three weeks or a month— the longer the better. This ground may be decorated with painting and gilding as other varnished surfaces. This is done after the ground has been hardened by the stove; but it should receive a second annealing with a more gentle heat after it is finished. Varnishing Japan Work. The finishinjf of japan work consists in the laying on and polishing the outer coats of varnish, as well i the pieces that have only one simple ground o colour as those that are painted. This is don with common seed-lac varnish, except wher other methods are more expedient. The same reasons which decide as to the fitness gf fh