INF [ 73 ] hood of the affected part, either by scarifying it with the point of a lancet, by cupping, or, what is more familiar with domestic practice, by the application of a sufficient quantity of leeches, promoting the flow of blood, after they have fallen off, by means of linen cloths dipped in warm water, and renewing them as fast as they cool. But when inflammation is deeply seated, which may always be known by the pain, it is advisable to have blood drawn from the system generally by opening a vein or an artery, an operation that comes within the province of the surgeon, who will best know how to proportion the quantity necessary to be drawn off by the age and strength of the patient, as well as by the severity of the symptoms. In inflammation of any of the external parts of the body, as well as in those of the head and chest, the frequent use of purgatives will be attended with a good effect; but in inflamma- tion of the bowels active and strong medicines ought to be administered with due caution, those of a mild nature, with emollient and laxative clysters, being preferable. In order to co-operate with the foregoing means in terminating inflammation by resolu- tion, if it be possible to accomplish it in this manner, it will be advisable to use some dis- cutient applications, as remedies of this kind are in themselves, particularly in mild cases, sufficient to disperse commencing inflammation of the phlegmonous description. When there is any viplent contusion or fracture, where a considerable degree of tension prevails, a poultice of rye meal or crumbs of bread, moist- ened with Goulird's water, will be a proper application, which may be renewed two or three times a day until the swelling and inflamma- tion give way; but in a common boil, or where the part is so tender and painful as to be incapable of sustaining the superincumbent weight of a poultice, pieces of soft linen moist- ened in the following sedative lotion may be applied :—Take carbonate of ammonia, 1 oz.; distilled vinegar, 2 pints ; or the vinegar may be added until the effervescence ceases To 4 ozs. of this mixture add the same quantity of alcohol and distilled water, mix them to- gether, and use them as directed by frequently applying them to the inflamed surface ; or what is cheaper, perhaps equally efficacious, and more easily obtained, is the following :—Take muriate of ammonia, 2 drachms; distilled vine- gar, 4 ozs.; camphorated spirit, 2 ozs.; solution of the acetate of lead, ^ drachm. These remedies, it should be understood, are to be applied cold, equally with the poultices previously directed, and they are to be renewed as often as they become stiff, hard, or warm. As the application of cold is considered one of the most powerful means we possess of carry- ing off heat and subduing inflammation, it has been carried so far, in some instances, that pounded ice and snow have been used for the purpose. When these are not to be obtained pieces of soft linen, moistened in a solution of nitre and muriate of ammonia, may be substi- tuted, or even simple cold water. When the inflammatory symptoms run so high as to affect the system it is not unusual for a feverish disposition to prevail. In such cases some febrifuge medicine, as the following, may be taken every three or four hours, viz.:— Take nitrate of potass (nitre), 2 scruples; hot water, 8 ozs.; tartarised antimony, 3 grains ; syrup of violets, 2 drachms; of which take two table-spoonsful for a dose. In the inflammations which attend compound fractures, swelled testicles, &c., the pain is fre- quently so violent as to deprive the patient of his natural rest. When this is the case opiates may be given with advantage and safety, provide 1 sufficient evacuations have been previously ob- tained, and that the costiveness always induced by opium be afterwards obviated by gentle aperient medicine. The dose for an adult may be from fifty to sixty drops of the tincture of opium an hour or two before bedtime, and in a similar proportion for those of a younger age. Instead of the tincture of opium children at the breast may take a small quantity of the syrup of poppies. But if, notwithstanding the preceding means, the tumour should show an evident tendency to suppurate, its progress must be hastened by the application of bread-and-mijk or linseed-meal poultices. Before, however, the poultice be applied, the part affected should be well fo- mented with flannels wrung out of a warm decoction or infusion of emollient herbs, such as camomile flowers, marsh-mallows, poppy heads, &c.; or, when these cannot readily be procured, the part may be fomented with milk and water as hot as it can be borne, or even with warm water alone. When the suppuration js complete, and the tumour is soft to the touch, and the matter lies near the surface, it may be opened with a lancet at its most depending part, and the matter thus suffered to escape, observing to press the whole of it out. The wound afterwards may be dressed with dry lint, and a pledget spread with basilicon laid over all, when pus will form, and granulations of new flesh will fill up the cavity in the wound. When granulation is too languid it may be forwarded by the same means which promote a favourable secretion of pus (matter), viz., warm emollient poultices. When, on the contrary, the granulations are too luxuriant, fopniing irve