MAL [ 183 ] MAL barley and one-thii'd wheat) a little at a time, stirring it with a stick until it is thoroughly mixed with the water, and cover the tub. Boil some more water, take the mash from the bottom of tlie large tub, put it into a smaller one, so that there may be a space of two inches between the bottoms of each tub, and set another small tub on the top. This latter should have holes .pierced in it, through which pour the boiling water on the mash beneath ; lay straw over, and leave it for an hour and a half. After that time draw off the water by means of a cock placed be- tween the two tubs ; then pour fresh boiling water over the malt, let it stand again, and repeat this operation as many times as you think necessary. The precise number must be regulated accord- ing to the intended strength of the vinegar. Pour the liquor into casks, and when cold and settled put it into a large barrel with a head to it; add some beer lees, cover, and leave it for ten hours to ferment. As soon as it is clear pour it into a cask previously washed with strong vinegar, put to it some yeast, skim it well, and you will then have vinegar of the best quality. MALT WINE. For a hogshead mash three hours, and boil in the usual way, using four bushels of malt to 2J lbs. of the best hops. Excite the activity of the bitter of the hops by just cover- ing them with boiling water, and then run the wort upon the prepared hops. Boil the whole an hour and a half, and strain out half the hops; then put the boiling wort into the upright ' cask in which it is intended to be kept, leaving at least six inches in a hogshead vacant, as room for fermentation, which maybe ascertained by boring a vent hole in the side six or eight inches down, or level with the proposed top of the liquor, till no more runs out at the hole. Bung it up at once, and peg it very tightly. Admit no air, and in four or five months it will be ripe and very delicious. The casks must, of course, be strong, and no way dis- turbed ; and, without due care in leaving a space at the top, the bottom or any weak part will give way. MALVERN WATER. The fancied sanc- tity of this water, from its long-established efficacy in the cure of many chronic diseases, gave it, in former times, the name of the " holy well," which it still retains. Its medical powers are to be referred to its remarkable purity, whereby its diluent property is considerably increased, and also to its low temperature. When first drawn it appears quite clear and pellucid, and does not become sensibly turbid on standing. It resembles, in every respect, pure good soft water. A wine gallon of it contains about five grains of the carbonate of soda, with a very minute quantity of the carbonate of iron. Its foreign matter, therefore, is less than that of any water in common use. Notwithstanding this purity, it is said not to keep well, but to acquire a fetid odour by standing in open vessels. This cir- cumstance Dr. Wall imputes to the ready solubility in it of the impurities of tubs and other vessels. Malvern water is principally employed as an external remedy. It has been found eminently serviceable in painful and deep-seated ulcera- tions, occurring in a scrofulous habit of body, attended with local irritation and fever ; in in- flammations of the eye and eyelids; and in those eruptions accompanied with intolerable itching, where there is great irritation, and where the skin is apt to break into painful fissures that ooze out a watery, acrid lymph. On its first application to an inflamed surface it will often increase for a time the pain and irritation, which, however, go off in a few days. The great benefit arising from its external use has led to its employment in some internal afi"ections, and often with success, as the follow- ing :—Painful disorders of the kidneys and bladder, attended with a discharge of bloody, purulent, or fetid urine; in hectic fever, the consequence of scrofulous ulcerations of the lungs, or irritating sores on the surface of the body ; and in old fistulas. In these complaints it should be used at all times of the day, constituting a common or diet drink. Its efi"ects on the bowels are by no means constant. Sometimes it purges briskly for a few days, but occasionally it constipates, par- ticularly those who are addicted to the use of malt liquors. In all cases it increases the secretion of urine, and if it agrees with the invalid it will improve his appetite, spirits, and general health. In some instances it produces slight nausea, drowsiness, giddiness, and head- ache ; but these symptoms soon disappear, or yield to a gentle purgative. These occm-rences Dr. Wall ingeniously enough refers to a tempo- rary plethora, or fulness of the vessels of the head, produced by the rapidity and ease with which this pure liquid enters the absorbent system. The duration of a course of this water must be regulated according to the nature and in- veteracy of the disease. The local disorders should be kept constantly wet with it by means of linen dipped in the water, and renewed when dried. The bowels should be kept regular by occa- sional doses of aloes, rhubarb, or Epsom salts; and the diet should be bland and nutritive. The rich and beautiful scenery of this water- ing place, the salubrity of its atmosphere, its