ORA OPO tlie solid state and dissolved in muriatic acid, ■without observing from it any sensible effect; and in the same state Orfila found that it might be taken by man, in very large doses, ■with impunity; but vipon dogs a solution of 30 or 40 grains in acetic or sulphuric acid, or olive oil, was sufficient to produce fatal effects. It is believed that narcotine, either in the solid form or dissolved in acids, is not possessed of any considerable narcotic powers, but that any effects of a narcotic character which have been attributed to it have arisen from the use of a preparation not entirely freed from other principles contained in opium. Codeia is in the form of flat, colourless, trans- parent prisms. It is soluble in water, and, when added in excess to boiling water, the undissolved portion melts and sinks to the bottom, having the appearance of an oil. It is soluble, also, in alcohol and ether, but is insoluble in alkaline solutions. The medicinal effects of a dose of 3 grains produces no result; but in the quantity oi 4 or 6 grains it accelerates the pulse, occasions a sense of heat in the head and face, and gives rise to an agreeable excitement of the spirits, like that produced by intoxicating drinks, which is attended by a sense of itching on the skin, and, after lasting several hours, is followed by an unpleasant depression, with nausea, and sometimes vomiting. Pammorphia is white, in the form of needle-shaped crystals, of an acrid and styptic, rather than a bitter taste. It is' scarcely soluble in water, very soluble in alcohol and ether, even when cold, and still more so when heated, and capable of combining with the acids, with which it does not form crystallisable salts. Magendie states that its effect on the system closely resembles that of brucia and strychnine, producing tetanic spasms in doses of 1 grain. Narceine is white, in silky, needle - shaped crystals, inodorous, slightly bitter, and pungent. It is soluble in water and alcohol, but insoluble in ether, and has not been found as yet to have any influence on the system. Meconm is also white, and in the form of needle-shaped crystals ; it is soluble in water, ether, alcohol, and in the essential oils. From the degree of acrimony which it presents, it may be supposed to have some influence on the animal system ; but its effects have not been sufficiently observed. Meconic acid is in white crystalline scales, of a sour taste, followed by bitterness. It exerts no influence on the animal system, and is not used separately in medicine. OPODELDOC. Dissolve i oz. of camphor in half a pint of spirits of wine, adding to the solution 3 drachms by measure of oil of rose- mary, and drachm of oil of thyme. Into half a pint of boiling rain or soft water introduce VOL. u. 8 ozs. of hard white soap cut into thin shavings. When dissolved, and allowed to cool a little, add this solution to the previous spirituous mixture, and, having well incorporated the two together, add ^ oz., by measure, of strong water of am- monia, and finally mix up the whole. Whilfe warm pour into suitable bottles for use, and the opodeldoc, on becoming cold, will assume the gelatinous state. For its uses, and another recipe for making it, see Liniment, Camphob. OPODELDOC, STEER'S. This is rather more stimulating than the preceding. Nearly a pint may be obtained by mixing the following ingredients:—Castile soap cut into small shreds, 1 oz.; rectified spirit, 8 ozs.; camphor cut small, 3^ ozs.; oil of rosemary, ^ drachm; oil of marjoram, 1 drachm; solution of ammonia, ti drachms. Mix in a pint bottle, and shake frequently until incorporated. ORANGE BISCUITS. Boil some Seville oranges whole in several waters till all the bitterness is taken from them ; cut them, and take out the pulp and juice ; then put the out- sides iu a mortar, and beat them very fine ; add to it an equal weight of double-refined sugar, beaten and sifted. When thoroughly mixed to a paste spi'ead it thin on china dishes, and set them in the sun or before the fire. When they are about half dry cut them into whatever form you please, turn the other side up, and dry that. Keep them in a box with layers of paper. ORANGE BUTTER. Take six eggs, and boil them hard; beat them in a mortar with 2 ozs. of fine sugar, 3 ozs. of butter, and 2 ozs. of almonds, bleached and beaten to a fine paste ; moisten with orange-flower water, and when all is mixed.rub it through a cullender on a dish, and serve with sweet biscuits between. ORANGE CAKES. Put three spoonsful of orange-flower water to the whites of ten eggs, and beat them an hour; then put in 1 lb. of powdered and sifted sugar, and grate in the rind of a Seville orange. When mixed add the juice of half the orange, and the yolks of ten eggs beaten till smooth; stir in f lb. of flour, butter a pan, and bake it in a moderate oven for an hour. ORANGE CHEESECAKES. Blanch 8 ozs. of almonds, beat them very finely with orange- flower water, beat and sift lb. of sugar, and melt 1 lb. of butter very carefully with- out oiling (the butter must be nearly cold before you use it for your cheesecakes); then beat the yolks of ten and the whites of four eggs ; pound two candied oranges and a fresh one (having previously boiled out the bitterness) in a mortar till as tender as marmalade without any lumps ; then mix the whole together, and put into patty pans. T