sou SOU [ 450 ] to considei* inferior meat as good enough for broth or soup, and to boil it down till it is fit only to throw away. This is false economj% for good meat not only yields most nutriment, but, after being stewed, is of itself au agreeable food. The principal art of making soup is so to pro- portion the ingredients that no one shall pre- dominate over tlie rest. Care must be taken that the roots and herbs are perfectly clean, and the quantity of water adapted to that of the meat and other articles, which is generally one quart to 1 lb. When the soup stews gently little more water need be put in than will be necessary at the end, as, by keeping the pot closed, and the fire gentle, little can evaporate. Observe that gentle stewing renders the meat peculiarly tender, and gives a fine flavour to the soup or broth. It is therefore essential that the cover of a soup kettle should fit tightly, otherwise no art will prevent the finer succulent parts of the soup from escaping. Let the pot be placed over a moderate fire, which will heat the water without causing it to boil in less than an hour, for if the boiling begins sooner the meat will not be penetrated; whereas, by keeping the water heated some time without boiling, the meat swells, becomes tender, the fibres are softened, and the whole yields a quan- tity of scum, which must be taken off as soon as it appears. The meat, however, should be well cleansed from clotted blood and other impurities before it is put into the pot. After simmering half an hour the fire may be mended, and as the pot boils the scum must be taken off till no more appears, when the vegetables must be put in together, with a little salt, which will cause more scum to rise; and on removing it cover the pot closely, and place it a little distance from the fire to boil gently from three to six hours. It is advisable to prepare soups the evening before they are wanted, which will give the cook more time to attend to her other duties ; besides this the fat can be more easily taken off in a cold than in a warm state. In pouring off the soup care must be taken to avoid dis- turbing the settlings at the bottom, for they are so fine as to escape through a sieve, or even a tammy, which is the best strainer. If strained while hot let it be through a clean tammy or napkin, that has been previously soaked through in cold water, which will congeal the fat, and only suffer the liquor to pass. Transparency is an essential quality in clear soups, and thickened ones must be of the consistence of rich cream, •with double the quantity of seasoning. For giving a body to soups clarified butter is the best; but, if there is none at hand, put some fresh butter in a stewpan over a slow clear fire, and when it is melted add a sufficient quantity of fine floiTr to make it into the thick- ness of a paste; stir it well with a woodeu spoon about fifteen or twenty minutes, till it is quite smooth and of a briglit yellow colour. The pro- cess must be gradual, for if the fire is too fierce it will become bitter : pour it into an earthen pan, and keep it for use. In summer it will keep a fortnight, but in winter longer. A large table-spoonful will be sufficient to thicken a quart of gravy; but care must be taken that it does not get a burnt smell or flavour, for if that should be the case it will spoil whatever it is put into. When cold it should be thick enough to cut out with a knife; it then forms the basis of most made dishes, soups, sauces, and ragouts. It must be gradually mixed with the soup till the whole is thoroughly blended, after which it must be simmered over a gentle fire for half an hour ; but, should it have a lumpy appearance, pass it through a tammy or fine sieve. If soup is too weak or thin take off the cover of the pot, and suffer it to boil till some of the watery part is evaporated ; or else add some of the thickening just described, to which joiu some plain browning. When soups or gravies are kept in summer or hot weather they should be warmed every day, and put into fresh-scalded tureens or pans, and placed in a cool cellar. When the weather is mild every other day may suffice. A clear jelly of cow-heels is very serviceable to be kept constantly in the house as au im- provement to soups and gravies. Trufiles and morels also thicken soups, and give them a fine appearance. Half an ounce of each should be washed, and then the whole simmered in water for a few minutes, after which it may be added to the liquor. In all families where much cooking is re- quired it is necessary to have a constant supply of what is called store or stock, without which neither soups, gravies, nor made dishes can be prepared. This essential article commonly con- sists of beef or veal. To make the first, take 20 lbs. of coarse lean beef cut into small pieces, and put the same into a pot, or rather a diges.ter, with water sufficient merely to cover it. «When it begins to simmer keep it well skimmed, and add such potherbs as may be proper to give it a flavour. Season the whole with salt or ground pepper, and keep it simmering till the meat is quite tender. Skim well, strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve, and keep it in a covered pan for use. Veal stock is made thus :—Take 10 lbs. or 12 lbs. of coarse pieces, such as the leg, neck, &c., to which add about 1 lb. of lean ham, together with the bone. Cut the meat small, and chop or break the bones, after which put the whole into two quarts_ of water, with herbs