T 0 M [ 495 ] TON STveet oil in eacli, tic bladders over, and keep in a dry place. TOMATO SAUCE. Stew six tomatoes in an oven till quite soft, take out tlie pulp witli a tea-spoon, and add Caj'enne and vinegar till of the consistence of thick cream. TOMATO SAUCE, ITALIAN. Take five or six onions, slice and put them into a sauce- pan, with a little thj'me, bay leaf, twelve or fifteen tomatoes, a bit of butter, salt, half a dozen berries of allspice, a little Indian saffron, and a glass of stock: set the whole on the fire, taldng care to stir it frequently, as it is apt to stick. When you perceive the sauce is tolerably thick strain it like a puree. TOMATO SOUP. Wash, scrape, and cut small the red part of three large carrots, three heads of celery, four large onions, and two large turnips; put them into a saucepan, with a table-spoonful of butter and ^ lb. of new lean ham; let them stew gently for an -hour, then add three quarts of brown gravy soup and some ■whole black pepper, with eight or ten ripe tomatoes ; let the whole boil an hour and a half, and pulp it through a sieve. Serve it with fried bread cut in dice. TOMATOES, GARNITURE OF. Take thirty tomatoes, all as nearly of a size as possible, and of a good form ; cut them in halves, press out all the juice, seeds, and pieces by the side of the stalk, but do it with great care, lest the skins should be injured. Make a farce as follows :—Take a little parsley, thyme, shallots, champignons, the yolks of two hard eggs, crumb of bread, anchovy, butter, salt, nutmeg, and allspice; give all these a boil, pound them ■well, adding at times a little oil, and strain through a quenelle sieve. Fill the tomatoes with this farce, place them on a baking tin, cover them with grated bread and Parmesan cheese, moisten them with a little oil, and bake them in a hot oven. Serve the tomatoes as a garnish to rump of beef, or any joint you may think proper. TOMATOES, PRESERVED (1). A suffi- cient quantity of salt is dissolved in spring or river water to make it sti'ong enough to bear an egg. Select perfectly ripe tomatoes, and place them carefully, without pressing them, in a stone or glazed earthen pot, covered with a deep plate in sucli a manner that it pi'esses upon the fruit. By this simple process tomatoes may be preserved more than a year without attention. Before cooking them they should be soaked in fresh water for several hours. TOMATOES, PRESERVED (-3). Gather them carefully without bruising, put them in a stone jar, and pour in strong brine to the top, putting on a light weight to keep them gently pressed down below the surface of the brine. Soak them in fresh water, and cook them in the usual way. Season to suit the taste as when fresh from the vine. TONBRIDGE WELLS, a populous village in the county of Kent, about tliirty-six miles south of London, contains many chalybeate springs resemblnig each other in chemical composition. Two are chiefly appropriated to medical use, and they afford an abundant supply of water for the numerous invalids who yearly resort to this watering-place. The sensible properties of this water, when first taken up at the reservoir, are the follow- ing:—It is colourless, clear and bright, and has no perceptible smell. It does not sparkle in the glass, but it slowly separates a few air- bubbles, which adhere to the sides of the vessel. It has, in a slight degree, a ferruginous taste, without any saline or acidulous impression. If exposed to the air for some hours the dis engagement of minute air-bubbles increases, the liquid grows turbid, a yellowish iridescent pellicle incrusts the surface, and in twenty-four hours the water has entirely lost its chaly- beate impregnation. This effect takes place more speedily when the water is heated. The contents of a wine gallon of Tonbridge ■water, according to Dr. Scudamore's analysis, are the following: — Grains. Chloride of sodium . . . 1-20 Sulphate of soda . . . . 1-47 Cliloride of calcium . . , 1-54 Chloride of magnesium , . . '29 Carbonate of lime . . . '27 Oxide of iron . . . . 2-29 Traces of manganese (insoluble mattor) -44 Loss, &c. . . , . , •}3 , 7-68 Cubic inches. Carbonic acid gas . . . 8-05 Azote . . . . . 275 Atmospherical air . . . 2-50 13-30 The analysis of the Tonbridge springs shows it to be a simple carbonated chalybeate water. It is, therefore, purely a tonic. All waters of this description are more invigorating, in pro- portion to the iron they hold in solution, than any artificial preparation of this metal, jiarticu- larly in a solid form. This advantage arises, in all probability, from the diluting principle of the water, whereby the chalybeate is rendered more diffusible, and on that account more efficient on the system. Soon after taking a moderate dose the strength of the pulse is increased, and a certain degree of warmth is felt, occasioned by the accelerated circulation; and by persevering in the use ol the