C 294 ] PAN any wine, as that will spoil it. Grate in a little nutmeg. PANADA, EGG. Boil a handful of good raisins in a quart of water; toast a slice of bread, and cut it up ; beat two eggs with a spoonful of sugar, and mix them with the bread. When the raisins are done pour them on the toast and eggs, stirring all the time; season to your taste with wine, nutmeg, and butter. PANADA FOR FARCES. Put the crumb of a French loaf into a saucepan, with a little water, 2 ozs. of butter, salt, and pepper; set it on the fire, and let it simmer for an hour ; then add two or three eggs, which stir in whilst on the fire, taking care that it does not boil. Serve it hot. PANCAKES. Although eggs form the chief foundation of all pancakes, they are yet made in various ways, according to different tastes and countries. The common sort are composed of a light batter, made of eggs, flour, and milk, fried in hot dripping or lard, only half the whites of the eggs being generally used; but salt or nutmeg and ginger may be added, and sugar and lemon should be served to eat with them. Or,, when eggs are scarce, make the batter with flour and small beer, ginger, &c.; or, clean snow, with flour and a very little milk, will serve as well as eggs. PANCAKES, FINE. Beat twelve yolks and six whites of eggs, put them in a quart of cream, beat well, and thicken with wheaten or rice flour; add salt, sugar, lemon zest and juice, or any seasoning more agreeable, as nutmeg or cin- namon, with a little butter : some put in 1 lb. of butter to this quantity, while others put in hardly more than will make them fry. Cover up the paste for two or three hours in a warm place, wipe a proper-sized hot frying-pan, and rub it ■with a buttered cloth for the first one-^the re- mainder will fry themselves. Sift sugar over each separately as they are dished. Serve with lemon, orange, or wine, and sugar PANCAKES, FRENCH. Beat separately the yolks and whites of seven eggs; beat with the yolks four table-spoonsful of pounded loaf sugar, the same quantity of flour, one pint of cream or milk, the grated peel and juice of one lemon, and two table-spoonsful of rose water: add the beaten whites the last thing. Allow three table-spoonsful to each pancake. PANCAKES, FRUIT. Mix the yolks of four eggs, well beaten, into a pint of cream, 1 oz. of flour, 3 ozs^of finely sifted sugar, and as much pulped apricot, peach, apple, pear, or any other fruit as will make it into thin batter; run it very thin over a hot buttered pan, let it take, hold the pan high, and sift sugar, seasoned with cinnamon, clove, or lemon grated, over them; or with a brush wash them over with beaten white of egg, sift sugar on them, and hold tho pan before the fire, or a salamander over it; double or roll up the pancakes, and sift fine sugar over them. PANCAKES, GOOD (1). Take 1 lb. of flour, and mix it with six eggs, a table-spoonful of brandy, a good pinch of salt, two table spoonsful of orange-flower water, and the same quantity of milk and water, or as much as will give the batter a proper consistence; melt a piece of butter or lard in a fi'ying-pan, and pour in as much batter as will cover the pan. When brown on one side, with a knife loosen the edges of the pancake all I'ound, and turn and brown it on the other side ; roll each pancake up, and send them to the table very hot, powdered with sugai*. Hand round sugar, either raw or pounded, to- gether with lemon or Seville orange. PANCAKES, GOOD (2). Take 1 lb. of flour, one quart of milk, six eggs, ^ oz. of salt, 4 ozs. of pounded sugar, and the peel of one lemon grated, with pounded sweet spice or not, according to fancy. Fry as usual, and serve each separately on a plate. PANCAKES, IRISH. Take a pint of cream, eight yolks and four whites of eggs, and beat them with some grated nutmeg and sugar; then melt 3 ozs. of butter with the cream, mix it with the rest, and add thereto about half a pint of flour smoothed fine ; rub the pan with some butter, and fry the cakes thin without turning. Serve several one on another. PANCAKES, DR. KITCHENER'S. Break three eggs in a basin, and be^t them up in a little nutmeg and salt; then put to them 4^ ozs. of flour and a little milk, which beat into a smooth batter, and then add by degrees as much milk as will make it of the thickness of good cream. The frying-pan must be about the size of a pudding plate, and very clean, or the pan- cakes will stick. Make it hot, and to each pancake put a bit of butter about the size of a walnut; when it is melted pour in the batter to cover the bottom of the pan, and make the pancakes the thickness of half a crown. Fry them of a light brown on both sides. PANCAKES, MRS. MARTIN'S. Three eggs, one pint of milk, three table-spoonsful of flour, and a little salt and ginger. PANCAKES, NEW ENGLAND. Mix a pint of cream, five spoonsful of fine flour, five eggs, and a little salt; fry them very thin in fresh butter, and between each strew sugar and cinnamon. Send up six or eight at once. PANCAKES, POLISH. See Nalesnikis. PANCAKES, WAFER. Beat four eggs well with two spoonsful of fine flour, two of cream, one of loaf sugar beaten and sifted, and half a nutmeg grated. After cleaning and rubbing your pan with butter pour in the