C S07 ] TUR TUR neck, give it a pull, and the whole skeleton will come out entire from the flesh as easily as you draw your hand out of a glove. The flesh will then fall down a flat and shapeless mass. Willi a small needle and thread carefully sew up any holes that have accidentally been torn in the skin. Have ready a large quantity of stuffing made as follows:—Take three 2 lb. loaves of stale bread, grate the crumb, and put the crust in water to soak. When quite soft break them up small into the pan of bread crumbs, and mix in 1 lb of fresh butter cut into little pieces, two large bunches of sweet marjoram, the same of sweet basil, and one bunch of parsley: mince the parsley very fine, and rub to a powder the leaves of marjoram and basil. You should have two large heaped-up table- spoonsful of each. Chop also two small onions or shallots, and mix them with the herbs ; pound to powder J oz. of mace, ^ oz. of cloves, and two large nutmegs; mix the spices together, and add a tea-spoonful of salt and a tea-spoon- ful of ground black pepper; then mix the herbs, spices, &c., thoroughly into the bread crumbs, and add by degrees four beaten eggs to bind the whole together. Take up a handful of this stuffing, squeeze it hard, and proceed to stuff the turkey with it, beginning at the wings ; next do the body, and then the thighs; stuff it very hard, and as you proceed form the turkey into its natural shape by filling out properly the wings, breast, body, &c. When all the stuffing is in sew up the body, and skewer the turkey into the usual way it is trussed, so that if skilfully done it will look almost as if it had not been boned ; tie it round with tape, and bake it three hours or more, basting it occasionally with fresh butter. Make a gravy of the giblets, chopped and stewed slowly in the water, and when done add to it the gravy that is in the dish about the turkey, having first skimmed off the fat, and enrich it with a glass of white wine and two beaten yolks of eggs, stirred in just before you take it from the fire. If the turkey is to be eaten cold at the supper table drop a table- spoonful of currant or cranberry jelly all over it at small distances, and in the dish round it. A very handsome way of serving it up cold is, after making a sufficiency of nice clear calf's-foot jelly (seasoned as usual with wine, lemon, cinnamon, &c.), to lay the turkey in the dish in which it is to go to table, and, setting it under the jelly bag, let the jelly drip upon it so as to form a transparent coating all over it, smoothing the jelly evenly with the back of a spoon as it congeals on the turkey. Apple jelly may be substituted. Large fowls may be boned and stuffed in the above manner; also a young roasting pig. , TURKEY, COLD : To Seeve. Lay your turkey in a dish, and have some nice savoury jelly, which cut into pieces. Garnish the dish all round with it. TURKEY EN DAUBE. Take an old turkey, truss it in the usual way, roll some large lardons in a mixture of salt, pepper, four spices, sweet herbs, and lard the turkey with them ; lay slices of bacon in a braising-pan, put the turkey on them, with two small knuckles of veal, the feet of the bird, four carrots, six onions, three cloves, two bay leaves, thyme, a bunch of parsley, and young onions; cover the whole with bacon and buttered paper, dilute it with four ladlesful of stock (or more if the turkey be large), put in a little salt, and set the pan on the fire to boil slowly for three hours and a half, but do not take the bird out for at least half an hour; strain off the liquor, and then reduce it to a fourth, or more if very thin. Break an egg into another saucepan, beat it up well, and pour the liquor on it; whisk them well together, and if it wants flavour add a few sweet herbs, parsley leaves, and a young onion or two; put it on the fire, stirring it violently till ready to boil; as soon as it has boiled up once or twice set it by the side of a stove, put fire on top of the saucepan, and let it simmer half an hour; then strain it carefully through a fine cloth, and let it cool to serve it with the turkey. TURKEY FRICANDEAU. The skin may be slit down one side, and pulled over without taking it off, and the whole breast taken out in one piece, larded, and cooked entirely as directed for a veal fricandeau. The body of the bird is to be filled with salpicon of rabbit, liver, oysters, farce, a very nice dry ragout, or curry ; then the skin is to be drawn over, and tucked into its place, and the turkey lai'ded, and either done in the oven, or on a bird spit, or braised. If this is nicely done it will be as good as if it was made of the breast of the turkey. Frican- deaux of poultry are very nice, besides their fine colour, smooth appearance, and shape. Small fricandeaux of game or water fowl look well dished upon turnips. The carcasses may be made into salmis, soup, or sauce, and the legs and pinions dressed in many different ways. TURKEY, GALANTINE OF. fake a fine fat turkey, bone it entirely, beginning with the back, and taking great care not to injure the breast; remove all the sinews from the legs, and cut away the meat from the thickest parts, so as to make it nearly all the same level. Take some of this meat, cold chicken, or meat of any kind you please : if you have '2 lbs. of lean take 2 lbs. of fat bacon, mince them small, and add salt, pepper, spices, and sweet herbs. Lard your turkey with moderate-sized lardons well seasoned ; spread all over the bird a layer of the farce an inch