[ 87 1 JAP JAO JACK, STUFFED AND ROASTED. Let the fish lie for some days, and then empty and scale it. If it be for a maigre dish lard it with anchovies and gherkins, or truffles; if not, with bacon rolled in salt, spices, shred parsley, and scallions. Stuff it, wrap the fish in a buttered paper, on which spread sweet herbs, spices, and salt; fasten it on the spit, and baste with white wine and melted butter. When done take off the paper, and serve with a pretty thick sauce piquante. JACKSON'S BATHING SPIRITS. See Bathing Spirits, Jackson's. JALAP is a purgative obtained from the root of Ipomaa purga, a plant native of Mexico. Its active principle is a resin called jalapin. Jalap in substance, taken in a dose of about fifteen grains, proves an effectual, and, in gene- ral, a safe purgative, performing the office mildly except in hot bilious temperaments, when it gripes, but rarely takes due effect as a purge. An extract originally made by water purges al- most universally, but weakly, and at the same time has a considerable effect by urine : what remains after this process gripes severely. The part of the jalap remaining after the separation of the resin yields to water an extract, which has no effect as a cathartic, but operates power- fully by urine. The resin of jalap, in the dose of four, six, or eight grains, purges in a very sensible manner. It is generally combined with sugar or emulsions, not to develope or augment its purgative property, but that it may not affect too sensibly the tissues which compose the intestinal surfaces with which it comes in contact. JAM. (SeeApEicoT, Baeberey, Blackberry, Black Currant, Cherry, Gooseberry, Dam- son, Pine-Apple, Plum, Peach, Raspberry, Strawberry, Rhubarb, and Preserving. JAMES'S ANALEPTIC PILLS. ^See Ana- leptic Pills, Dr. James's. JAMES'S FEVER POWDER is, like the antimonial powder of the Pharmacopoeia, a com- pound of oxide of antimony and phosphate of lime. In doses of from three to eight grains it acts as a sudorific, or promoter of perspiration, and may be repeated every third or fourth hour until it produces the effect desired. In larger doses it acts as a purgative and emetic. JAPANNING is the art of varnishing and painting ornaments on wood, as is done by the natives of the island of Japan. All substances that are dry and rigid, or not too flexible, as wood, metals, leather, and paper prepared, admit of being japanned. Wood and metals require no other prepara- tion than to have their surfaces perfectly even and clean; but leather should be securely stretched either on frames or on boards, as its bending would crack and force off the~varmsh. Paper should be treated in the same manner, and have a previous strong coat of size; but it is rarely japanned till converted into papier mdche, or wrought into such a form that its flexibility is lost. Black Japan Grounds formed without Heat. Black grounds may be formed by ivory black or by lampblack; the former is pre- ferable when good. These are laid on with shellac varnish, and have their upper or polishing coats of common seed-lac varnish, the tinge of the varnish being no injury here. Blue Japan Grounds. Blue japan grounds are formed of bright Prussian blue, or of verditer, glazed over with Prussian blue or smalt. The colour is best mixed with shellac varnish, and brought to a polishing state by five coats of varnish of seed-lac; but the varnish will somewhat injure the colour by giving a cast of green to a true blue, and fouling a warm blue by the yellow it contains. Where a bright blue is required, and a less degree of hardness can be dispensed with, we pursue the method directed in the case of white grounds. Common Black Japan Grounds on Iron or Copper formed by Heat. To form black japan grounds by heat, the work to be japanned is painted over with drying oil and lampblack: when of a moderate dryness it must be exposed to such a heat as will change the oil to black without weakening its tenacity. The stove should not be too hot when the work is put into it, nor the heat increased too fast, else it will blister: the slower the heat is augmented, and the longer it is continued, provided it be restrained within the due degrees, the harder will be the japan. This kind of varnish requires no polish, as that which it receives from the heat when properly managed is sufiicient. Green Japan Grounds. Green grounds are prepared by mixing King's yellow and Prussian blue, or turpeth mineral and Prussian blue, and a cheap, but fouler kind by verdigris, with a little of the above-mentioned yellows or Dutch pink. Where a bright green is wanted the crystals of verdigris (distilled verdigris) are em- ployed. To heighten the effect they are laid on a ground of leaf gold, when the colour is ex- tremely brilliant and pleasing. Japan Grounds. When a priming is used the work should be well smoothed with fish-skin or glass-paper, and, being made thoroughly clean, brushed over once or twice with hot size, diluted with two-thirds of water if it is of the common strength. The priming is laid on as evenly as possible. It is a size of a consistence between the common kind and glue, mixed with as much whiting as will give