SCO C -^21 ] SCO bottom fourteen inches. It should also have a false bottom, in order that the under part of the tub may be level with the floor, by which the bottom will be prevented from being beaten out. It will be also desirable to have a peg or hook driven into the wall exactly over the tub, in order to attach whatever may be desired to it, to twist it and wring it well by manual labour, with the assistance of a short stick as a lever. To scour cotton counterpanes, quilts, dc. Cut 1 lb. of mottled soap into thin slices; put it into a pan, with \ oz. of potash and 1 oz. of pearl- ash ; pour a pailful of boiling water on it; let it stand till it is quite dissolved, then pour hot and cold water into the scouring tub, with a bowl of the solution of soap. Put in the counter- pane, and beat it well with the doll, often turning it over in the tub ; then wring it across a gallows or a hook, which is done by turning the two opposite ends round each other, and putting a small clean stick between them. It may be thus wrung very dry—the harder, without injuring it, the better. The liquor may be afterwards used for old cottons or woollens. The counterpane must now be immersed in a second liquor, and be beaten as before ; wring it out again, and rinse it in clean cold water. Lastly, pour a sufficient quantity of boiling water into the tub, with a little of the solu- tion of soap, so as to reduce it to a very thin lather; put three table-spoonsful of liquid blue into the tub, and stir it about; put in the counterpane, beat it with the doll about five minutes, and then take it out: as it dries in the wind the blue mostly goes off, and leaves a brilliant white. Where the colour of the cottons is brown and bad it will be necessary to boil them, with the last of the three liquors, for an hour in a copper previously to bluing them. To clean scarlet cloth. For a lady's ,Tnantie dissolve ^ lb. of the best white curd soap in ■water; but, as the quantity required will depend upon the state of the garment, 3 ozs. will frequently do: sometimes lib. may be necessary If any black-looking spots appear, dry soap should be rubbed on them. When the mantle is spotted all over with the soap taUe hot water and a brush, and brush it off. If it be very filthy some part of the stains will remain : in this case the whole garment must be dipped into the solution at, or rather under, a hand heat, and rub well such parts as are most stained. Wring it strongly from the first soap liquor, and, having another of the same kind ready prepared as at first, only somewhat hotter, immerse the garment in it, and rub as before : the colours beginning to stain the liquor must be the signal for despatch. If this second liquor does not effectually cleanse the article it may be con- cluded that it requires dipping or re-dyeing. As. soon, however, as the colour begins to give, wring it out, and immerse it in a pailful of warm water, to extract what soap remains ; wring it out of this, and immerse it in a pan of cold spring water, in which a table-spoonful of the solution of muriate of tin has been previously mixed. The garment should remain in this liquor for about ten minutes, being handled now and then ; afterwards it should be hung to dry in the shade, or, if the colour be much worn, in a warm room : let it be cold pressed. If scarlet cloths should not be much soiled they may be cleaned by more simple means, as follow :—Take a quarter of a peck of wheaten bran, and pour boiling water on it in a hair sieve. When the bran water is cooled down to a hand heat immerse the cloth, and rub it well now and then, holding it up to the light to see where the spots are. A second liquor is to be prepared like the former, adding to it i oz. of white tartar ; wring the cloth out from the first bran liquor, and immerse it in this, and if the colour is not altered it is finished. But, should it be altered or darkened, a clean liquor must be made of cold spring water, to which a drop or two of the solution of tin must be added : the cloth must remain in this liquor ten minutes, and then be wrung out and dried. Scarlet cloth may be dipped thus :— To boiling spring water, in a vessel sufficiently large to contain the cloth, add 4 ozs. of young fustic, or zant, 1 drachm of powdered cochi- neal, and the same quantity of cream of tartar; when this has boiled five or six tninutes cool down the liquor by adding a pint or two of cold spring water, and a table-spoonful of the solution of tin ; stir it, put in the cloth, and boil it for ten minutes . when dry let it be cold pressed. A cheaper method is to use 2 ozs. of the best crop madder and the same quantity of turmeric, boiled for ten minutes ; but for a deep red the turmeric must be omitted. To clem white lace veils. Make a solution of soap ill a clean saucepan, put in the veil, and let it boil gently for a quarter of an hour; take It out into a clean basin, with some warm water and soap ; gently squeeze it till it is thoroughly clean; rinse it from the soap, and afterwards in clean cold water, with which has been mixed a drop of chemical or liquid blue ; then take a tea-spoonful of starch, and pour boil- ing water apon it; run the veil through this, and clear it well by clapping it between the hands: afterwards frame or pin it out to dry. Black lace veils are cleaned by passing them through a warm liquor of bullock's gall and water, then rinsed in cold water, cleaned for stiffening, and finished thus :—Take a small piece of glue about the size of a bean, pour boiling water upon it, and when dissolved pass