ME A MEL' [ 203 ] season with a little pepper and salt; mix the whole well together, and make it into small cakes about three inches in length, an inch and a half in width, and half an inch thick. Fry them of a light bi'own, and serve them with good gravy; or put the mixture into a mould, and boil or bake it. MEAT PATTIES. The tins should be about the size of a small tea-cup, but not so deep. Lay puff paste at the bottom, put in some forcemeat, and cover it with puff paste. Bake the patties a light brown, and turn them out. Five or seven make a side dish. MEDICINE, GIVING TO CHILDREN. Mrs. Paikes justly observes that the chief diffi- culties in nursing sick children are the impossi- bility of particularly ascertaining the symptoms of their indisposition, and also the trouble of administering medicine to them. In infancy the former difficulty is unavoidable, but the latter is frequently owing to early mismanage- ment. We have known children upon whom hours of entreaty were wasted in persuading them to take a dose of medicine, and even then without success until some bribe had been added ; while other children, merely to obtain their mother's approbation, and with no other reward than this, except, perhaps, the additional privilege of breakfasting with her on the morn- ing on which the physic was to be taken, have swallowed it down as soon as it was presented to them. It is the early subjection of a child's will to that of his parents which renders his management easy either in sickness or in health. There have been instances of children falling a sacrifice to their own wilfulness in refusing to take medicines when it has been absolutely necessary. To prevent this a spoon has been invented, by which medicine in a flaid form can easily be administered to any child. The bowl of this spoon is about the size of a dessert- spoon, but I'ather longer in the lip ; it has a short hollow handle, which has an oj)ening both into the bowl of the spoon and at the opposite extremity. A lid, which opens with a hinge, covers the spoon, except near the lip, where a space is left to allow the contents of the spoon to be pouied out. In using it the lid is raised to admit the dose of medicine to be poured into it, after which it is closely shut down, and the effect is such that, when a finger is pressed upon the open extremity of the handle, scarcely any of the liquid escapes, in whatever position the spoon is held. After the spoon is filled it should be held firmly in the right hand, the middle finger of which must press upon and close the orifice at the end of the handle. The child should then be laid backward on the knee, his head reclining on the left arm; and, as soon as the spoon is fairly in the mouth, let .* be pressed down upon the tongue, when, by re- moving the finger from the opening of the handle, the whole dose will be suddenly pro- jected into the stomach of the child. MELANCHOLY, another form of mono- mania, is a disease of mature age, and rarely affects young and athletic persons. It is also generally characterised by a peculiar appear- ance, and particularly by black hair and eyes— by a striking cast of countenance, as the com- plexion is either yellow, brown, or blackish. This is to be ascribed to a sluggishness and torpor of the cutaneous system, and, in con- sequence, the impressions of cold and heat are scarcely noticed, and sometimes not heeded. The physiognomy is wrinkled and languid, yet sometimes the muscles of the face become con- vulsively tense, and the countenance is full of fire. The pupils of the eye are dilated, and that organ has a peculiarly dull, muddy look, rolling heavily on surrounding objects if it can be roused to move at all; but ordinarily it is fixed with an unmeaning stare on vacancy. The adnata is commonly painted with a dull purplish red, sometimes on a deep orange - coloured ground, and this especially when advancing age and hepatic affections exist, or intemperance has long preceded the attack. Holding a strong light near the eyes produces a very transient effect. Pain is said by some recovered patients to have preceded the attack—sometimes fixed, but more commonly wandering ; and the suffering by this is extreme. Great apprehension, which, indeed, is a characteristic of melancholy, ensues, and plunges the sufferer into the most gloomy state of mind, accompanied by indifference as to his personal comfort, or urging him forcibly to self-destruction, or to the murder of others. The state of reverie and delusive ideas gradu- ally becomes more fixed, and the thoughts are concentrated on one mournful topic, until finally he is, as it were, inanimate, motionless, and speechless. A fixed position of the body is a very common attendant. In one instance that occurred to Dr. Rush the patient sat with his body bent forward for three years without moving, except when compelled by force or the calls of nature. In another the sufferer occu- pied a spot in a ward, an entry, or in the hos- pital yard, where he appeared more like a statue than a man. Such was the torpor of his nervous system, that a degree of cold so intense as to produce inflammation and gangrene upon his face and limbs did not move him from the stand he had taken in the open air. The pulse is extremely vacillating, and gene- rally slow and feeble, yet with all this has a