[ 2-2 ] II A 11 HAR bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a very little lukewarm water; stir the whole very hard, transfer it to a deep tin pan well buttered, and bake it thoroughly. Before it goes to table turn it out on a dish, and serve it up warm with any sort of nice sweet sauce. HARDNESS OF WATER. The "hardness" of water, as it is commonly teimed, is caused by some salt of lime which it contains. This is usually the sulphate of lime. Now, when soap is used in such water a double decomposition takes place ; the sulphuric acid of the sulphate of lime unites with the soda of the soap, and the fat of the soap unites with the lime of the sul- phate. This combination of fat and lime is in- soluble in the water, floating about in it in the form of curds, whereas the soap of soda is soluble in water, and will combine with the grease and dirt on the articles to which it is applied. To the salts of lime in the water the crust which lines long-used boilers and tea-kettles is owing. Those salts are kept dissolved in the water by the carbonic acid gas which it con- tains. This gas being driven off by heat, the calcareous salts fall from the water on to the sides and bottoms of the boilers and kettles, and the deposit soon hardens, like some limy cements, into a rock-like crust. When these salts of lime are very abundant in the waters of a spring, they so rapidly en- crust wood and other substances thrown into them as to have obtained the name of petrify- ing waters, because it was popularly believed that the waters turned all bodies into stone. The truth is that the calcareous or limy im- pregnation is kept dissolved in the water by an excessive quantity of carbonic acid gas which it contains. The gas escapes upon the exposure to the air, and the calcareous matter then separates from the water, and covers any solid body plunged beneath it. Such petrifying springs are in this country at Mat- lock, in Derbyshire; Knaresborough, in York- shire ; and Coton, in Cambridgeshire ; and on the continent at Auvergne and elsewhere. Water containing much calcareous matter is very objectionable for brewing and tea-making. It combines with the extractive matters of the malt and tea, rendering them insoluble. A little carbonate of soda added to the water prevents this by decomposing the sulphate of lime, the usual cause of hardness in water, and then the lime separates from the water.—(Johnson's Chemistry of the World.) HARE. This animal should be kept five or six days, or even a week, before it is dressed, as the flesh then becomes dark and soft; but when fresh killed it is stiff and pale. Of an old hare the opening of the lip is wider than that of a young cue. The latter may likewise be distin- guished by the ears being tender and pliable, and the claws smooth and shai-p, whereas iu an old one the former are dry and tough, and the latter blunt. As soon as the cook receives the hare she should take out the liver, &c., wipe it well, put iu a little pepper, and hang it up. When wanted for di-essing cut off the legs at the first joint, raise the skin of the back, and draw it over the hind legs, leaving the tail whole ; then draw the skin over the back, and slip out the legs ; cut it from the neck and head, skin the ears, and leave them on ; clean the vent, cut the sinews under the hind legs, bring them forward, run a skewer through one hind leg, the body, and the other hind leg. Do the same with the fore legs, lay the head rather back, and put a skewer in at the mouth, through the back of the head, and between the shoulders; put in the stuffing, and tie it round with a string, passing it over the legs to keep them in their places. The hare is then ready for roasting. HARE . To Boil. Take a marrow bone with a good deal of beef on it, a piece of bacon, find a hare ; put them into some salt and water, and then boil. When the hare is nearly done take it out; bruise some peas, and boil them in the broth ; take out the bone of beef, put in the hare, and boil again till the peas are done ; then strain, and put the pui'ee aside ; lay the hare in a dish, pour the puree over it, and serve. HARE : To Carve. Insert the point of the knife under the shoulder in the direction a, and then cut all down the rump in the line a b. Do the same on the other side, by which process the whole hare will be divided into three parts. Cut the back into four, as e d, which with the legs is most esteemed. Cut the shoulder off circularly as a e g, lay the pieces on the dish as they are taken off, and then help the company, giving some stuffing and gravy to each. If the hare is old it cannot be thus divided ; therefore in that case put the knife between the leg and back, and give it a little turn inwards at the joint, which must be hit, and not broken by fores.