n YD [ 50 J IIY r Symptoms in human beings. In the human species the general symptoms attendant on the bite of a mad dog or other rabid animal are, at some indefinite period, and occasionally long after the bitten part seems well, a slight pain felt in it, now and then attended with itching, but generally resembling a rheumatic pain; then come on wandei'ing pains, with uneasiness and heaviness, disturbed sleep and frightful dreams, accompanied with great restlessness, sudden starting and spasms, sighing, anxiety, and a love for solitude. These symptoms continue daily to increase, pains begin to shoot from the bitten part, extending up to the throat, with a tightness and sensation of choking, and a horror and dread at the sight of water and other liquids, with loss of appetite and trembling. The person, however, is capable of swallowing any solid substance with tolerable ease; but the moment that anything in a fluid form is brought in contact with his lips it occasions him to start back with much dread and horror, although he labours, perhaps, under great thirst at the time. A vomiting of bilious matter comes on in the course of the disease, and an in- tensely hot fever ensues, attended with continual watching, great thirst, dryness and roughness of the tongue, hoarseness of the voice, and the discharge of a viscid saliva from the moutl), which the patient is constantly spitting out. His respiration is laborious and uneasy, but his judgment is unaffected; and, as long as he retains the power of speech, his answei's are distinct. In some few instances a severe delirium arises, and closes the frightful scene; but it more frequently happens that the pulse becomes tremulous and irregular, convulsions arise, and nature becoming at length exhausted, the un- happy patient sinks under the pressure of his misery. « Preveidion and treatment. In the first place the bitten part, as soon after the accident as possible, should be completely cut out; it should then be suffered to bleed, and the bleeding pro- moted by warm affusions; and after this has been practised for some time a cupping-glass is to be applied over the part, and suffered to re- main until it produces visible effects of its ex- hausting power. The wound then, on the removal of the cupping-glass, may be washed ^yith a weak solution of muriatic acid (forty drops to a pint of water) three or four times "a day, and a piece of rag or lint moistened in the same left applied on the part. Should some degree of inflammation ensue, as most likely will be the case, the solution may then be laid aside. The wound may now be dressed with dry lint, and warm poultices applied until suppuration be promoted. When this is effected the wound may be healed in the usual way. Daring this treatment the jjatieut is recom- mended to take two of the following pills at bedtime every night for three weeks or a month after the accident:—Take blue pill, 1 drachm ; powdered rhubarb, 2 scruples; extract of hem- lock, 10 grains. Make twenty pills, to be taken as above. With respect to cauterising the bitten pai't we do not place so much reliance upon it; the application of nitric acid or similar articles, in our opinion, cannot have the same influence in arresting the progress, beyond momentarily, of so subtle a matter as the hydrophobic varus. It may sear the mouths of the absorbents, and prevent the poison from being immediately talien up by therp; but as soon as the parts slough, and the subtle virus again escapes, the absorbents being rendered more sensible to their own action from being confined or tem- porarily blunted, they now, when set at liberty, are capable of increased action, and the virus, con- sequently, not being annihilated, is more likely to be carried into the system. Excision of the part, and the treatment here recommended, present none of these uncertainties, and, as fai' as it has hitherto been adopted, has invariably proved successful. Much has been said about the cause of hydro- phobia, which we believe to be equally as wide from truth as the means of cure hitherto from certainty. Among these is food of a highly putrid nature; then what animal lives upon aliment of this description more constantly and more abundantly than hogs ? Corrupted and unwholesome waters are also assigned; but do we not see dogs, in general, prefer the filthiest stagnant pools to the purest waters? Hot iveather, again, is urged, although it by no neans appears that canine madness is so pre- alent among dogs in warm climates as in cold ones. These may occasionally be con- comitant causes, but are by no means those on which the disease is said to depend. It appears, therefore, more probably to be a specific contagion produced by causes yet un- known, and propagated among these animals from one to the other by a peculiarity con- genial with their nature. HYPOCHONDRIA. Few, we are persuaded, are aware of the very slight causes which pro- duce this worst of maladies. It is rarely imagined that the disappointments and dis- tresses which are so frequent in this mercantile country', brooded over and indulged in—nur- tured we may almost say—should lay the foundation of a malady which is lilcely to end. at no distant period, even in the commission of suicide. The irritable and the sensitive are more peculiarly liable to be affected by a