wou WOU [ 573 ] between the orifice and the thumb; over this must be placed another compress, of sufficient thickness to fill up the hollow of the bend of the arm, confining the whole with a ribbon or tape, passed over the compress, and above and below the elbow, in the form of a figure of eight, finishing with a knot over the compress. The preceding directions are, of course, ap- plicable to the prevention of the great elfusiou of blood from innumerable kinds of wounds; the danger, however, under such circumstances, depends also on the part which is injured, and on the constitution of the patient. If the heart, any of the large internal blood-vessels, the spinal marrow, or the brain be wounded, or when any- large nerves, ligaments, or tendons are materially injured, the danger is always imminent, and a skilful surgeon should by all means be con- sulted ; indeed, the safest course is always to obtain the best medical attendance. We have mentioned, under our article Blood-letting, our opinion of this operation, and by whom it ought to be performed; and doubtless, in wounds and bruises from accidents, when the effusion of blood is not great, the absti'action of a few ounces of this fluid may be very useful to guard against any inflammation; or, if this should not be adopted, a dose of opening medicine, such as Epsom or Glauber's salts, will be generally necessaiy, unless the great loss of blood and weakness of the patient should forbid. The applications to wounds must depend in some degree iipon their nature. In simple wounds from keen instruments, in general, nothing more is necessary than a moderate pressure, or a bandage of dry lint or calico, upon the part, taking care, of course, in covering it from the external air, that no extraneous bodies remain in it; for it sometimes happens that such bodies, however small, prevent their healing. If a considerable laceration of flesh should occur it will be sometimes necessary to sew it up, but this is most appropriately done by the sui'geon ; or gold-beater's skin, or com- mon sticking plaster, instead of lint, may be sometimes advantageously applied. When tlie bleeding does not readily cease by moderate pressure of lint, it may be dipped in the com- pound tincture of benjamin; or dusting the part with fine flour, or gum arable in fine powder, may perhaps answer as well. It is scai'cely necessaiy to observe that all foreign bodies, such as iron, lead, splinters of wood, glass, &c., should, if possible, be speedily removed or extracted from wounded parts ; but, if this cannot be done, the part may be exposed to the steam of hot w-ater; or an emollient poultice should be applied, in order to induce early suppuration, and of course an ejection of the ofi'ending body; or it may be, and often should be, extracted at once by the skilful surgeon. It is a mistake to suppose that ointments are at all necessary to be applied to recent wounds : in general, in these, if the air be excluded, nature will eff'ectuate the cure best by being left alone. But if swelling, or other untoward symptoms come on, the bandages must be loosened; and should all inflammatoiy symp- toms have subsided, and the wound show no disposition to heal, it must then be treated as an ulcer, and perhaps yellow basilicon, tar ointment, with or without calomel, or red precipitate, according to circumstances, may be necessary; and sometimes, where there is considerable swelling and pain, a bread-and-milk poultice. The diet in all serious accidents of this kind should be wholly vegetable for some daj's, till all danger from any inflammatory diathesis has subsided. Gruel, barley water, panada, and acidulous drinks should form the chief aliment. Animal food, or broths made from it, should be totally prohibited. In gun-shot wounds whatever is of a hot or spirituous nature is extremely injurious on these occasions, and what no wounded part can in any degree bear. The wound may be dressed with pledgets of any emollient oint- ment, the whole being covered with a common poultice; or, in some cases, preparations of lead may be used. An opiate may also be necessary ; and the part aff"ected being placed in the easiest and most convenient posture, the patient should be laid to rest. The formation of matter in every contused wound is an object of the first importance, for till this takes place there is every reason to suspect that gangrene may happen. To hasten suppuration the warm poultices should be frequently re- newed, and they should be continued till the tension and swelling are removed, and till the sore has acquired a red, healthy, granulated appearance, when it is to be treated as a common ulcer. Persons wounded by gunpowder, especially in the face, should not attempt to extract such pai'ticles of the powder as have penetrated through the skin, because they are apt to break and sink deeper into the muscular fibres. The best application is Goulard's water, or a liniment composed of linseed oil and lime water. See Burns and Scalds. In the treatment of all wounds, rest and an easy posture of the wounded part are absolutely necessary; and where there is considerable prostration of strength, notwithstanding what we have said above, animal food and other stimulants will also be necessaiy. For the treatment of wounds which are