TEE TEN [ 48G ] instrument, and precludes tlie necessity of resorting to artificial means. Besides, the finger has the advantage of being soft and pliable, and of feeling any immoderate pressure too sensibly to permit us to do injury to the teeth or gums: hence it is an injudicious delicacy alone which can prevent us from making use of it in preference to even the best tooth-brushes. For cleauing the interstices between the teeth we should not employ pins or needles, whether made of gold, silver, or steel; for all metallic substances are apt to canker the teeth. If tooth-picks be at all advisable they should be made of soft wood, or quills cut in a blunt point. In our own opinion none should be used ; for, of whatever materials they are made, they open, loosen, and injure the teeth, by making room for the tartar and other substances to prey upon them and the gums. To answer every purpose of tooth-picks, a thick and soft cotton cloth should be used to rub the teeth over gently after every meal; but if people have once accustomed themselves to regularly picking their teeth, then indeed the cotton frictions may perhaps come too late. Lastly, the cleaning and brushing of the teeth, however useful and necessary, are in- sufficient to prevent the settling of the tartar, and the consequent injury to the teeth; for the source of both evils does not exist in the mouth, but really proceeds from the stomach and an impure state of the fluids. For this reason the medical treatment of the teeth requires a particular regimen and diet, accord- ing to the individual case of every patient. TEETHING. See Dentition. TENCH : To Choose. This fish should be dressed as soon as possible after being taken. When dead the gills should be red ard hard to separate, the eyes bright, and the body feel firm and stiff. It is generally covered with a slimy matter, which, if clear, is a sign that the fish is good. This matter may be removed by rubbing it with a little salt. TENCH : To Dress. Tench is a most delicate fish, and may be either fried or stewed, though in the latter way the flavour of the fish is not preserved. To boil tench, put the fish into the water when of a boiling heat, with some salt, an onion cut in slices, some pai'sley, and a little milk. When done enough put the fish into a soup dish, and pour over it a little of the liquor it was boiled in, with the parsley and onion. Serve it with melted butter and parsley. Some persons put perch and tench into cold water, and boil them gradually; then serve with melted butter and soy. - TENCH : To Souse. Having drawn the tench, clear away the slime and cut off the gills; put the fish into a kettle, with some water, vinegar, bay leaves, sweet herbs, cloves, mace, pepper, and salt. When done take off the loose scales, and lay the tench in a dish carefully; strain the liquor, add a little clarified isinglass to it, boil it a little vvhile, then strain it again, and pour it over the fish. It must not be touched till quite cold. TENCH, BROILED (with Herbs). Take three or four tench as fresh as possible, plunge them into boiling water, sci-ape off the scales carefully, beginning with the head, cleanse them thoroughly, and put them into a marinade of oil, with shred parsley, scallious, shallots, thyme, bay leaf, salt, and pepper; wrap them in a double paper, inclosing tlie marinade, and broil them. Take off the paper before sending to table. Serve them in a piquant, anchovy, or caper sauce. TENCH, FRICASSEE OF. Cleanse the tench, scale it, and take off the head, tail, and fins; cut the fish into three or four pieces, and put them into a ste wpan, with some white wine, bay leaf, pepper, and salt. Dissolve some butter with a clove of garlic in it, toss up a few morels in it, then add a glass of white wine, the same of fish gravy, small onions, and carp roes ; put this over the fish, let the whole simmer a short time, and then serve. TENCH, FRIED. Split them along the back, and raise the flesh from the bones ; cut the skin across at the heads and tails, take it off, and remove the bone. Next mince some of the fish with mushrooms, chives, parsley, salt, pepper, nutmeg, mace, and herbs ; mix these together, and pound them in a mortar with crumbs of bread soaked in cream, the yolks of three or four eggs, and a little butter. With this stuff the rest of the fish, and fry them in clarified butter, strewing over them some flour. Wlien brown take them out and lay them before the fii'e ; pour the fat from the pan, and melt in it some butter and flour, keeping it stirred till browned, after which add thereto half a pint of white wiue; stir these well, and put in half a pint of boiling water, an onion, cloves, sweet herbs, and mace ; cover them closely, and stew them gently for a quarter of an hour ; then strain off the liquor, put the whole in again, with two spoonsful of catsup, 1 oz. of trufHes or morels boiled till tender in half a pint of water, mush- rooms, and half a pint of oysters. Pour the sauce over the fish, and let them lie in it till thoroughly hot; then take them out, put them into another dish, and serve them with the sauce. Garnish with sliced lemon. TENCH, MATELOTE OF. Dissolve 2 ozs. of butter in a stewpan, and add a dozen small onions, mushrooms, a bunch of parsley and scallions, two or three cloves, thyme, bay leaves.