RED [ 390 ] RHE should be used to reproduce it on the surface of the body. In consequence of some bad quality in the milk of the person who nurses the child, it sometimes happens that an eruption breaks out. RED INK. See Ink, Writing. RED - LEAD, called also minium, is a deutoxide of lead. It is rarely used as a paint, owing to its liability to become black. REFINING. See Distilling. REFRIGERANTS are applications for re- ducing unnatural heat in any part of the body. Cold air, cold water, vinegar and water, solution of acetate of lead, solution of sal ammoniac, are all so employed. Ice is still more powerful, and see Freezing Mixtures. REGIMEN. See Diet. RELISH, KITCHENER'S. Pound finely 1 oz. of black pepper and \ oz. of allspice, with 1 oz. of salt, ^ oz. of scraped horseradish, and the same of eschalots peeled and quartered; put these ingredients into a pint of mushroom catsup or walnut pickle, let them steep for a fortnight, and then strain the liquor. A tea-spoonful or two of this is generally an acceptable addition, mixed with the gravy usually sent up for chops and steaks, or added to thick melted butter. REMITTENT FEVER. See Fevers. REMOLADE. Put some mustard into a basin, and mix it up with some water; add to this a little shallot and ravigote (both shred), six spoonsful of oil, four of vinegar, some salt, and whole pepper; mix them well in, then put in the yolks of two raw eggs, and continue stirring until the sauce is very smooth. It ought to be rather thick. REMOLADE, INDIAN. Pound the yolks of ten eggs to a paste, dilute it with eight spoonsful of oil, put in one at a time, and continue pounding all the while; then add about a dozen berries of allspice, a tea-spoonful of saffron, four or five spoonsful of vinegar, salt, and pepper; amalgamate the whole perfectly, strain it through a bolter, and serve it in a sauce tureen. This sauce, like the preceding, should be rather thick. RENNET (1). As soon as the calf is killed take out the stomach, and scour it inside and out with salt after it is cleared of the curd always found in it. Let it drain for a few hours, after which sew it up with two large handsful of salt in it. See Calf's Stomach. RENNET (2). Prepare the maw as in the above receipt. On the following day put a handful of hawthorn tops, a handful of sweet- brier, a handful of rose leaves, a stick of cin- namon, forty cloves, four blades of mace, a sprig of knotted marjoram, and two large spoons- ful of salt into two quarts of fresh spring water. Let them boil gently till the water is reduced to three pints, when strain it off, and, when only milk warm, pour it on the maw. Slice a lemon, and add to it; in two days strain it again, and put into bottles. Aromatic herbs may be put in also. Take care that it is suffi- ciently salt. If the maw be again salted for a few days, and dried as above, it will be quite as fit for use as before. It should be kept in a cool, dry place. A small quantity of the liquid is sufficient for turning. RENNET WHEY. Warm a pint of milk, but do not let it get too hot, or it will spoil the taste of the whey; wash the salt from a piece of rennet about the size of a crown piece, and put it in the milk. When the milk turns take out the rennet; wash and put it in a cup of water, and it will do to use again to make whey. If you have a rennet in a bottle of wine, two tea- spoonsful of it will make a quart of whey ; but, for a person having fever, it is best to make it without wine. RENNET WINE. Rub the salt from a nicely dried rennet, and cut it up with good wine. If care is taken to fill it up it will last for several years to make cold custards and cheese curds. RESIDENCE. See House, Air, &c. REVIVER. See Black, Reviver of. RHENISH WINES. The district from which we receive the greatest supplies of Rhenish wines in this country is Mount Tonnerre, in the Palatinate. The finest of these is Deidesheim, the whole produce of which is bought up every season by the merchants of Frankfort. From the district of Spire we get the wines oi Roth, Konigsbach, Hocheim, Wein- heivi, Forst, and TJngstein ; and round Mayence are produced the following, which are all wines of the first quality :—Niersteiner, Lauhenlteim, Bodenheim, Oppenheim, NacJcenheim, Gaubisc- heim. Those called Scharlach are made on Mount Scharlachenberg. Leibfrauenmilch, made at Worms, and the Kasterich of Mayence, are held in high repute, and command great prices. The finest wines of this class are produced at Rudesheim, eighteen miles from Sletz: they have more body, strength, and bouquet than the others. Johannisberger is universally admitted to be one of the best, from its choice flavour and perfume, and the absence of the least acidity. Steinberger ranks next: it is a strong wine, and improves by age. The generality of Hocks used in England are grown on the banks of the Moselle, and some are of excellent quality; but they vary very much in that respect. RHEUMATISM. {See Lumbago.) This disease has often a resemblance to the gout. It generally attacks the joints with exquisite pain, and is sometimes attended with iuflamma-