VEA [ 529 ] VEA ■wrap this in a sheet of paper with all the seasoning, fold a second over that the reverse way, then again another, and so on till all the paper is used; take care that the ends are quite secure, and that it is folded of a nice shape; then tie it up, and place it on a gridiron over a slow fire, minding the paper does not burn; do it for an hour, untie the paper, and serve it. If the outer paper should be coloured in the least degree take it off. VEAL NOIX, SAUTE. Having taken off the skin, cut a noix of veal into round pieces the thickness of a five-shilling piece, beat each piece with the back of a knife, lay them neatly in a tossing-pan, and pour over them f lb. of melted butter, with shred parsley, scallioiis, pepper, and salt; set the pan on the fire, and the moment the pieces of veal are hot on one side turn them over on the other: five minutes are sufficient to do them. Then lay them on a dish, and keep them hot; reduce rather more of veloute than usual, add to it the gravy from the pan, and a liaison of two eggs ; strain the sauce over the pieces, and serve. VEAL, NOIX OF (Small). Take from the shoulder of veal fifteen small noix ; take off the skin, trim them, run them on three skewers, and marinate them in some oil, with a sliced onion, parsley, pepper, and salt, for half an hour; then fasten them to a spit, and roast them before a large fire. Glaze and serve them with a clear aspic, or a puree of any kind vou like. VEAL OLIVE PIE. Line your pie dish with a good crust, put in the olives (see receipt for Veal Olives), fill up the dish with stock, and put it into the oven to bake. When done pour in some gravy thickened with a little cream and flour boiled together, and serve. VEAL OLIVES (1). Take some slices from a fillet of veal, and cut them round about the size of the palm of your hand, make a force- meat with the remains of roasted chickens, suet, herbs, eggs, and spices, and lay the slices alternately with a little of this forcemeat, fat livers sliced, truffles, or mushrooms ; continue these to a moderate height, the last layer being veal; then roll them in a caul, and tie or sew them up ; put them into a stewpan, with slices of ham and veal, parsley, shallots, two cloves, one of garlic, pepper, salt, a little stock, and one glass of white wine; let them stew slowly, and when done take off the caul, wipe o:f the fat, skim, and strain the sauce ; add a little cuUis, lemon juice, and chopped parsley, and serve over the olives. VEAL OLIVES (2). Cut some thin slices from the fillet (if it is large one slice will be sufficient for three olives), rub them over with yolks of eggs, strew on them some bread crumbs, VOL. II. mixed with chopped parsley, grated lemon-peel, pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and on every piece- lay a thin slice of bacon, which must not be too fat; roll them up tightly, fasten them with small skewers, rub the outside with egg, roll them in bread crumbs, &c., lay them in a Dutch oven, and let them brown without burn- ing. They will take a long while doing. Some prefer frying them. Serve the following sauce over them :—Thicken a pint of good gravy with some flour, add catsup, Cayenne, and pickled mushrooms, and boil for a few minutes. Force- meat balls may be added. VEAL OLIVES A LA MODE. Take 2 lbs. of veal, beat it very finely as for force- meat, and mix with it the yolks of two eggs, two anchovies, ^Ib. of mushrooms, either fresh or pickled, half a pint of oysters, some thyme, sweet marjoram, parsley, spinach, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and mace finely beaten: let the whole be well mixed. Have a layer of bacou and a layer of the ingredients, roll them up in a veal caul, and cither roast or bake it. When done cut it into slices, lay them in a dish, and serve a good gravy over them. VEAL PATTIES. Mince some veal that is underdone with a little parsley, lemon-peel, grated nutmeg, and a little salt; add some cream and just a sufficient quantity of gravy to moisten the meat. A little scraped ham is a great improvement. The above should not be warmed until the patties are baked. VEAL PIE (1). Cut a neck of veal into neat steaks, and season them well with white pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace ; pack them closely into a dish, and put in half a pint of white stock : five hard boiled yolks of eggs may be added. Put puff paste on the edge of the dish, and cover the same. VEAL PIE (2). Cut into steaks a loin or breast of veal; season them highly with pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, mace, and a little lemon- peel mixed; lay them in the bottom of a dish, and then a few slices of sweetbread seasoned with the spices ; add some oysters, forcemeat balls, hard-boiled yolks of eggs, half a pint of white stock, a glass of white wine, and a table-spoonful of lemon pickle; put puff paste on the edge of the dish, and cover with the same. Bake it for one hour. VEAL PIE, COLD. Stew in veal stock, till it be perfectly tender and like a jelly, a piece of knuckle of veal, with the gristle adhering to it; let it cool, and then cut the meat and gristle in small bits; butter a pie dish or shape, and lay at regular distances some hard-boiled yolks of eggs, and some of tho whites cut into rings or strips; then put over some of the meat and gristle and strew over them some pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg mixed, 2 M