MAG MAI [ 179 ] 1 oz.; Epsom salts, 2 ozs.; bi-carbonate of soda, 2ozs.; tartrate of potasb and soda, 3ozs.; tartaric acid, 2 ozs. Tbey must have been put separately upon plates into a hot oven, and thus reduced to white povpder before being mixed. Keep the mixture in a stoppered glass bottle. Dose, from a tea-spoonful to two dessert-spoonsful put into a tumbler half filled with water, stirred, and drunk whilst effervescing. MAGNONAISE. Take chervil, tarragon, pimpernel, of each a handful, and a little ciboulette, and having picked and washed them, scald them for five or six minutes in boiling water with a little salt in it; then let them cool, drain and squeeze out all the water, and pound them well, moistening with a spoonful of magnonaise; strain this through a silk sieve, and mix it with a magnonaise prepared as above. If it be not sufficiently green add a small quantity of essence of spinach. MAGNONAISE, WHITE. Put into a pan the yolks of two eggs, a good pinch of salt, and a quarter of a dessert-spoonful of tarragon vinegar; take a wooden spoon, stir them up quickly, and when beginning to thicken add half a dessert-spoonful of the best olive oil. As the sauce continues to thicken put in a few drops of vinegar, then oil, and so on, still rapidly stirring and rubbing the spoon against the sides of the pan. In proportion as the sauce gains consistence increase by degrees the quantity of oil and vinegar, and add a little aspic jelly. Do not cease stirring until you have thus amal- gamated two glasses of oil, half a glass of aspic jelly, and as much vinegar as you find necessary to render the sauce palatable. When done it should be of the consistence of a thick cream, and equally smooth. Keep it in a cool place till wanted for use. MAHOGANY is the wood of the tree called by botanists Swietenia mahogoni. That which is produced in the islands of Cuba and Hayti is called " Spanish mahogany," and is remarkable for its close grain and beautiful veining, mottles, and curls ; and it is this which is so highly esteemed for cabinet work. The prices which are sometimes obtained for a log of mahogany are truly marvellous. Some years ago Messrs. Broadwood, the celebrated pianoforte manufac- turers in London, gave £3000 for three logs, the produce of one tree, each log being about fifteen feet long and thirty-eight inches wide. This description of wood is too expensive to use in an ordinary way, and is therefore cut into veneers, eight to the inch, and is used for the most valuable descriptions of cabinet work. The common kinds of mahogany are now considerably employed in ship-building. For this purpose they have, from an early period, been much used by the Spaniards, who generally employ that which grows in the Bahama Islands. It is better adapted for this purpose than most woods yet known, being very durable, resisting gun shots, and burying the shot without splin« tering ; nor is the worm so apt to eat this wood as that of the oak. It also affords very strong timber for building purposes, and answers well in beams, joists, plank boards, and shingles, for which purpose it was formerly frequently used in Jamaica. The first account we have of the mahogany tree is, that it was employed to repair some of Sir Walter Raleigh's ships at Trinidad in 1597; but there is no notice of its having been intro- duced to this country before the end of the seven- teenth or beginning of the eighteenth century, when it was brought over by a Captain Gibbons as ballast from the West Indies. His brother, Dr. Gibbons, was then erecting a house in King Street, Covent Garden, and gave it to the work- men to make boards, but being hard they rejected it. The doctor then gave a portion to a cabinet-maker, named Wollaston, to make a candle-box; and when that was finished it ex- hibited such beauty that it became quite an object of curiosity. Finding the despised maho- gany created so much excitement, Wollaston made two bureaus of it—one for Dr. Gibbons, and the other for the Duchess of Buckingham ; and the fame of the wood and the cabinet-maker became so great, that the fortunes of the latter were raised more speedily and to a far greater extent than he ever dreamed of when he grumbled over the hard-working wood of Dr. Gibbons's candle-box. The bark of the mahogany tree is astringent and bitter, and has been found to resemble Peruvian bark in its action on the human system. To imitate mahogany take the planed boards of the elm or maple tree, moisten them .first with diluted aquafortis, and when dry varnish them with a tincture made of 2 drachms of dra- gon's blood, I drachm of alkanet root, and ^ drachm of aloes, digested in 8 ozs. of proof spirit. By applying this liquor two or three times with a sponge, or soft painter's brush, it is said to produce the desired effect. MAHOGANY, CLEANING. See Furni- ture (Cleaning), and Ink Stains. MAHOMED'S ELECTUARY. Grocers' currants, 1 oz. ; powdered senna, ^ oz.; pow- dered ginger, 30 grains ; oil of croton, 1 drop ; syrup of roses, sufficient to make an electuary. Two tea-spoonsful every morning. MAID - SERVANTS. See Domestic Ser- vants and Female Servants. MAIDS. They should hang up for one day at least. You may either broil or fry them. If they are of a tolerable size you may boil the