VOM [ ] VOM out. This is called two turns. Dust it %\ith flour, let it repose fifteen or twenty minutes, and give it two turns more; let it again rejoose, and according to the use it is to he made of, and the quantity of hutter used, give it a turn more, which will he six or six and a half. Half a turn is folding tlie paste in two instead of three. When it is folded for the last rolling, whether it has had five, six, or six and a half, it must he rolled out only the thickness required for the pastry, which will be easily ascertained by tossing a bit in the oven, which is also neces- sary to ascertain the state of the oven. If it has not been carefully and equally folded it will fall over to one side. Attention ought to be paid to cut it economically, as it cannot be rolled again like other pastes without spoiling it. The cuttings are used for stringing tarts and other small matters. Lay on the cuttings to make the most of the paste, by which a small dish of pastry may he saved without any addi- tional trouble ; with a knife mark the top, and hake on oven leaves to give a fine colour. This paste requires a quick oven, which must not be opened till it is well risen, or the paste will fall. When baked cut out the top, and scrape out the soft paste. Fill the vol-au-veut, for first course, with ragouts of meat or fish. The French call these dislies entrees in the first coui'se : with vegetables, sweetmeats, creams, or souffles—these dishes they call entremets. It may be likewise served on top of small second courses, as patties, with farces, fricassees, oysters, or mushrooms, or any nice ragout of fowl, game, fat livers, &c. Bottoms of jiate a dresser may be made with a very thick puff border for serving hot or cold, and will keep a week, which is a convenience, and may be warmed up in a few minutes. VOMITIMG may proceed from various causes, as excess in eating and drinking, foulness of the stomach, the acrimony of the aliments, a translation of the morbific matter of ulcers, of the gout, the eiysipelas, or other diseases, to the stomach. It may likewise proceed from a looseness having -been too suddenly stopped; from the stoppage of any customary evacuations, as the bleeding piles, the menses, &c.; from a weakness of the stomach, the colic, the iliac passion, a rupture, a fit of the gravel, worms, or from any kind of poison taken into the stomach. It is an usual symptom of injuries done to the brain, as contusions, compressions, &c. It is likewise a symptom of wounds or inflammations of the diaphragm, intestines, spleen, liver, kid- neys, &c. Vomiting may be occasioned by unusual motions, as falling, being drawn back in a car- riage, &c. It may likewise be excited by violent passions, or by the idea of nauseous or dis- agreeable objects, especially of such things as have formerly produced vomiting. • Sometimes it proceeds ftom a regurgitation of the bile into the stomach. In this case what the patient vomits is generally of a yellow or greenish colour, and has a bitter taste. Persons who are subject to nervous affections are often suddenly seized with violent fits of vomiting. Lastly, vomiting is a common symptom of pregnancy. In this case it generally comes on about two weeks after the stoppage of the menses, and continues during the first three or four months. When vomiting proceeds from a foul stomach or indigestion it is not to be considered as a dis- ease, but as the cure of a disease. It ought, therefore, to be promoted by drinking lukewarm water or thin gruel. If this does not put a stop to the vomiting, a dose of ipecacuanha may be taken, and worked off with weak camomile tea. When the retrocession of the gout or the obstruction of customary evacuations occasions vomiting, all means must be used to restora these discharges; or, if th.at cannot be effected, their place must be supplied by others, as bleed- ing, purging, bathing the extremities in warm water, opening issues, setons, perpetual blisters, &c. When vomiting is the effect of pregnancy it may generally be mitigated by bleeding, and keeping the body gently open The bleeding, however, ought to be in small quantities at a time, and the purgatives should be of the mildest kind, as figs, stewed prunes, manna, or senna. Pregnant women are most apt to vomit in the morning immediately after getting out of bed, which is owing partly to the change of posture, but more to the emptiness of the stomach. It may generally be prevented by taliing a dish of coffee, tea, or some light breakfast in bed. Pregnant women who are afflicted with vomit- ing ought to be kept easy both in body and mind. The should neither allow tlieir stomachs to be quite empty, nor should they eat much at once. Cold water is a very proper drink in this case. If the stomach be weak a little bi'andy may be added to it. If the spirits be low, and the person apt to faint, a spoonful of cinnamon water, with a little marmalade of quinces or oranges, may be taken. If vomiting proceeds from weakness of the stomach bitters will be of service. Peruvian bark infused in wine or brandy, with as much rhubarb as will keep the body gently open, is an excellent medicine in this case. Sulphuric acid is also a good medicine. It may be taken in the dose of 15 or 20 drops, twice or thrice a day, in a glass of wine or water. Habitual vomitings are sometimes alleviated by making oysters a principal part of diet.