LUN MAC r 107 ] of the lungs, and a return of it might lay the foundation of pulmonary consumption. LUNGS, SPURIOUS INFLAMMATION OF. This is also called bastard peupneumony. This is another species of the last-mentioned disease, which attacks, for the most part, people advanced in years, especially such as are of a phlegmatic habit; it is also occasioned by cold, being most frequent in autumn and spring, or where there are frequent changes of the weather from heat to cold. The disease is often so slight as only to resemble a violent cold, which, after the employment of a few proper remedies, goes off by a free and copious expectoration, and often with the throwing up of a considerable quantity of ropy matter. If early advice be taken, and there is great difficulty of breathing, with much pain, it will be proper to bleed, for the purpose of render- ing the circulation free through the lungs ; but where these do not prevail bleeding must be omitted, as much harm might be done by taking away blood unnecessarily, by inducing weakness, as the disease principally attacks eldei'ly people, and, as previously stated, such as are of a phlegmatic habit. Strong purgatives, also, on this account should be avoided. The difficulty of breathing and oppression at the chest will be best relieved by a large blister immediately over the part affected ; and if there be nausea, or inclination to vomit, a gentle emetic may be administered ; but where this is not the case, antimonial medicine, as directed in Lungs, Inflammation of the. To procure a perspiration, and in order to keep up a constant effect, they should be repeated every two or three hours, the patient at the same time drinking plentifully of lukewarm liquors, such as barley water, &c. Costiveness may be removed by clysters or gentle laxatives, such as manna, lenitive electuary, Epsom salts, &c. Throughout the course of this disease, as in all those of the inflammatory kind, abstinence from animal and high-seasoned food must be strictly enjoined. Where much weakness pre- vails, or where the patient has long been accustomed to a free use of fermented liquors, a small quantity of wine or porter may be allowed. There are other diseases, scarcely to be dis- tinguished from inflammation of the lungs, requiring a similar treatment, which it will not be necessary, in a work on domestic affairs, to treat of separately, such as inflammation of the diaphragm, heart-pericardium, &c. As the means of cure, however, are the same, and as the parts are no less immediately necessaiy to life, promptitude and diligence must be em- ]iloyed ; and no time must be lost in endeavour- ing to cut short the disease, as well as,, when this measure fails, by exerting our utmost to conduct it to a favourable crisis. LUTE is the name of any plastic substance applied to a crack in a vessel or to joints of pipes, to prevent the escape of the liquids or vapours which the vessel or pipes may contain, or to protect them from injury by the fire to which they have to be exposed. To prevent the escape of the vapours of water, spirit, or liquors not corrosive, the simple application of slips of moistened bladder will answer very well for glass vessels ; and slips of brown paper, with a stiff paste made with flour and water mixed cold, for metals, such as still-heads, &c. The bladder, to be very adhesive, should be soaked some time in warm water till it feels clammy. If smeared with white of egg instead of water it adheres still more closely. Linseed meal, moistened with water to a proper consistence, well beaten, and applied pretty thickly over the joinings of the vessel, is another very convenient lute. Almond paste answers also the same purpose ; but these will not do as fire lutes. The following is a good fire lute :—Take some whites of eggs, with as much water; beat them well together, and sprinkle in sufficient slaked lime to make up the whole to the consistence of a thin paste. The lime should be slaked by being once dipped in v.ater, and then suffered to fall into powder. This cement should be spread on slips of cloth and applied immediately. A solution of glue may be used instead of the white of eggs. A mixture of liquid glue, white of eggs, and lime makes a lute so firm that broken vessels united with it are almost as strong as when sound. None of these lutes will, however, enable vessels to hold liquids for any great length of time. For confining acid vapours, thefat lute, made with good clay, or tobacco-pipe clay powdered, and mixing it with drying linseed oil, and then beating them for a long time to the con- sistence of a thick paste, is one of the best. A lute to be applied round glass retorts, to protect them from the immediate contact of the fire, may be made thus:—Mix sand with a sufficient quantity of clay to make it adhere together, and beat them up with some fibrous material so as mechanically to increase the tenacity. Windsor loam and horse-dung are of this kind; but chopped straw, chaff, cow- hair, or tow, mixed with the clay and sand, will answer the same purpose. M. MACARONI: To Dress (1). Put a piece of butter, -^-Ib. of macaroni, an onion stuck with cloves, and a little salt into hot water;