MA D [ 176 J MAD by placing tlie wine in a heated atmospbere or a hothouse ; but the effect is not equal to a voyage, probably on account of the ship's motion. Where good samples are selected, and the wine seasoned, it proves of excellent quality, most of the adventitious spirit being evaporated ; and it will keep for any length of time, improving by age. Indeed, Madeira wine is not considered to have arrived at maturity until it has been ten years in the wood, and twice that time mellowing in bottle. The quantity of wine made at Madeira has never exceeded 20,000 pipes, and a poi'tioii goes to America and the West Indies. Previously to the reduction of duties 300,000 gallons were entered for home consumption in England, and adulteration was practised to a greater extent upon this wine than upon sherry at present. TenerifFe wine resembles Madeira, and, according to Brande, contains 19-79 per cent, of alcohol. MADELAINES. Take 9 ozs. of powder sugar, 8 ozs. of flour, the yolks of four and six whole eggs, two spoonsful of brandy, and a grain of salt; put these into a saucepan, stirring continually until the paste thickens, after which stir only one minute. Clarify 10 ozs. of good fresh butter, with which grease about thirty-two madelaine moulds; pour the remainder of the butter into your preparation, set it on a gentle stove, stir it till it begins to become liquid, take it off before it has time to get too hot, put a little of this into each mould, and bake them in a moderate oven. , MADELAINES EN SURPRISE. Make your madelaines in the usual way. When cold cut a thin slice from the bottom, and take out nearly all the inside ; pound 4 ozs. of blanched filberts, mix them with eight spoonsful of apricot mar- malade, which mixture put into the madelaines, replace the slice taken from the bottom, and serve them. MADELENES, or Maudlin Cakes. To a quarter of a peck of flour well dried at the fire add 2 lbs. of mutton suet, tried and strained off clear, and when it is a little cool mix it well with the flour, some salt, and a very little allspice beaten fine. Take half a pint of good yeast, and put in half a pint of water; stir them well together, strain it, and mix up your flour into a paste of moderate stiffness. You must add as much cold water as will make paste of a right order. Make it into cakes about the thickness and size of an oat cake; have ready some cur- rants washed clean and picked, and strew some just in the middle of your cakes between your dough, so that none pan be seen till the cake is broken. You may leave the currants out if you choose. MADNESS, or Mania. {See Melancholy, Monomania, and Idiotcy.) In many instances, though it is far from being general, pain m the head and throbbing of its arteries precede an attack of insanity ; and sometimes giddiness is complained of as a precursory symptom. The appearance of the eye is, however, the circum- stance most readily to be noticed, and the change in it from a state of health even precedes incoherence of language. Recovered patients have described a peculiar sensation connected with this appearance, as though the eye flashed fire from being struck smartly with an open hand, and this increased in proportion as the ideas became more and more confused. There is a peculiar muscular action of these organs, a protrusion of the eyes, a wandering motion in eveiy possible direction, and in a manner pecu- liarly tiresome to the beholder. During a paroxysm they appear as if stiffly and firmly pushed forward, and the pupils are contracted; and yet, with all these appearances of excite- ment, it has rather a dull than a fierce character. The muscles of the face also partake in the change, and the rapidity of the alterations they undergo depends on the succession of ideas which pass with such velocity throixgh the mind of the sufierer. As the attack advances the individual be- comes uneasy, is unable to confine his attention, walks with a quick and hurried step, and while doing so suddenly stops. Men of the most regular and established habits will suddenly become active, jealous, and restless; they abandon their business, and enter into the most extravagant undertakings; while, on the other hand, some who are naturally of a lively dispo- sition become indolent and indifferent, fancy themselves sick, or have a presentiment of severe disease. Persons subject to habitual in- disposition, which has disappeared suddenly, fancy themselves in high health, and are greatly elated. A very vigorous action of body and mind soon takes place, and particularly the exertion of great muscular strength. And here it is impossible to present anything like a description that shall be generally applicable. The language is totally different, both in tone and manner, from the usual habits of the maniac. He becomes angry without any as- signable cause—attempts to perform feats of strength or efforts of agility which shall strike the beholder with astonishment at his great powers. Many talk incessantly, sometimes in the most boisterous manner; then suddenly lowering their tone, speak softly and whisper. The subjects vary equally. They are never confined long to one point, but voluble and inco- herent, running rapidly from one thing to another totally disconnected with it. The same phrase is sometimes repeated for a length of time, or conversation is maintained with themselves, as