SNA SN U r 417 ] and butter, or cream and egg, and serve very hot. It is used in France at breakfast. SNAIL POWDER. Clean the snails, throw them into the oven with their shells, and keep drying them till the shells reduce to powder; cut the snails into slices, and let them dry till they become crisp; beat them to powder, and add it to the shells. The dose is as much as will lie upon a shilling, mixed in clarified honey. SNIPE: To Cakve. Raise the legs and wings as in a fowl, but the head must be opened for the brain. SNIPE: To Teuss. This bird, being very tender, must be picked with great care, particularly if they are not quite fresh. When picked clean cut off the pinions at the first joint, and press the breast-bone till it is flat; turn up the legs close to the thighs, and fasten them together at the joints; bring the thighs close to the pinions, and put a skewer through the thighs, body, and opposite pinion; skin the head, turn it, and having taken out the eyes, put it on the point of the skewer with the bill close to the breast. Woodcocks, snipes, and plovers are all trussed alike, but must not be drawn. SNIPE PIE. Take three snipes, bone them, and stuff them with forcemeat, adding the trails and truffles pounded to it; place the birds in a deep dish, with a little forcemeat all round; cover with puff paste, egg and ornament it, and then place it in the oven. When three parts baked take off the lid, and pour in some good cullis, a glass and a half of Madeira wine, and season with Cayenne and lemon juice according to taste; put on the cover, and finish baking. SNIPES are generally dressed in the same manner as woodcocks. SNIPES WITH TRUFFLES. Truss eight snipes with their beaks run through them, and roast them with bread under. Have a few fine truffles well stewed in a good brown sauce, and when the snipes are roasted lay them on a toast in the dish, putting one or two truffles into each snipe, and pour the remainder of the sauce over them. SNOW and ice may be most speedily re- moved from pathways and pavement by sprinkling salt upon them. SNOW BALLS. Pare a quantity of apples, take out the cores, and in the place of them put some finely shred lemon-peel, about half a clove, or a little cinnamon or mace, and sugar ; then, having washed some rice, soak it in milk, lay as much of it on thin cloths as there are apples, which must be rolled up in them, and each tied separately like dumplings; set them over the fire in a pot of cold water, and boil them a little more than an hour. Turn them gently in the dish to prevent breaking. They may be served with sweet sauce, made of sugar and butter, grated nutmeg, beaten cinnamon, and a glass of white wine, or with melted butter and sugar only. SNOW, A DISH OF. Put twelve apples over the fire in cold water till soft, then dry them on a sieve, skin them, and put the pulp into a basin; beat up the whites of twelve eggs to a froth, and sift over it ^ lb. of double-refined sugar; beat the pulp of the fruit to a froth also, after which beat up the whole till it looks like snow; put it on a dish, and stick a sprig of myrtle in the middle. This is merely an ornament. SNOW FRITTERS. Take of light, new- fallen snow three table-spoonsful for every egg you would otherwise use; that is, if you wish the quantity of batter three eggs would make in the usual way, take nine table-spoonsful of snow, and stir in a quart of rich milk that has been setting in a very cold place, so that it will not melt the snow and destroy its lightness ; put in a tea-spoonful of salt, and enough flour to make it a stiff batter ; have ready a frying-pan with boiling lard, drop a spoonful as with other fritters, and set the remainder in a cold place till the first are done. Eat them with wine sauce, or sugar, butter, and cream, or anything you fancy. SNUFF. We are indebted to Mr. Cooley's excellent " Cyclopaedia of Receipts" for the following notes :— While powdering the tobacco should be fre- quently sifted, that it may not be reduced to too line a powder; and it should be moistened with rose or orange-flower water, or eau d'an/je, which are the only waters fit for the superior kinds of snuff. This moistening is usually repeated several times. Tonka beans are put into snuff- boxes to scent the snuff; but the concentrated essence of tonka beans is now mostly used. The leaves of Orchis fusca, and those of several other species of orchids that have the scent of the tonka bean, are also used to scent snuff. French snuff is scented with the root of Calamus aromalicus. During the grinding of tobacco it is but too frequently mixed with dark-coloured rotten wood, various English leaves, colouring, and other matter, which substances are added by the fraudulent manufactui-er to reduce the cost. It is a general practice with many dealers to add ammonia to their snuffs to increase their pungency. We have seen 1 cwt. of powdered sal ammoniac sent at one time to a certain London tobacconist. Powdered glass and helle- bore are also frequently added for a like pur- pose. The moist kinds of snuff are generally drugged with pearlash, for the triple purpose of keening them moist and increasina their pun-