JAR JAU C 90 ] form the varnish. The seed-lac varnish is not equally injurious here as with greens, because, tinged with a reddish yellow only, it is little more than an addition to the depth of colour. Yellow grounds may be found of Dutch pink only, which, when good, is not deficient in brightness, though extremely cheap. JAR, SWEET, or Pot Pourei. The leaves of lavender, lemon thyme, sweet marjoram, rosemary, bay, and orange. The flowers of violet, clove pinks, lavender, roses, jasmine, wallflowers, heliotropes, myrtle, mignonette, balm of Gilead, and carnation. Gather the above on a dry day, carefully pick the leaves from the buds and stems, spread them open till perfectly dry, and put them in paper bags till you make your jar; then begin with a layer of the dry leaves and a layer of the spice mixture, and so on until it is filled; cover it two days, and then mix. up the whole together from the bottom of the jar. It should be frequently mixed after the jar is made. The spice mixture is thus made:—Common salt, ^ lb.; bay salt, ^ lb.; nutmeg, cinnamon, cloves, allspice, benzoin, and borax, of each i oz.; orris root pounded separately, and mixed afterwards together with the salt, i oz.; some lemoiT and Seville orange-peel dried and pounded; and i drachm of musk. JARDINIERE. This is composed of the same articles as, and in a similar manner to, the macedoine: the only difference consists in the sauce, the vegetables for this being put into a reduced Espagnole or a demie-glace of roots. It is used on the same occasions as the macedoine. JASMINE FLOWERS : To Candy. Boil 1 lb. of clarified sugar to large pearl, and when about half cold throw in two handsful of jasmine flowers, and place them on hot ashes for two hours, that they may dry well; then drain them on a sieve from the sugar, and having ready some more powdered sugar sifted, in which put the jasmine, rubbing them well with your hands, place them again on a sieve, and set them in a stove till next day, after which sift the flowers. Take 3 lbs. of clarified sugar, and boil it to souffle; have a proper mould ready, and put the flowers in it; push them lightly down with a fork, that they may be completely covered with the sugar, and place the mould in a moderate stove or oven for five days ; then drain off the syrup, lay a sheet of paper on the table, and turn the candy quickly out of the mould. JASMINE, OIL OF. Moisten some carded cotton with oil of ben, and arrange it on a hair sieve placed in a dish; then cover the cotton with fresh jasmine about three quarters of an inch thick, lay over it another dish reversed, and cover both with a cloth. After digesting three or four hours take the flowers gently away, and add fresh, repeating the process several times. When the cotton is well charged with odour put it in a press, squeeze out the oil, and keep it in a phial closely stoppered. JAUNDICE. The jaundice sets in with lassitude, inactivity, loathing of food, and cos- tiveness ; as it proceeds the skin and outer membrane of the eyes become of a deeply-tinged yellow colour; there is a bitter taste in the mouth, with frequent nausea and vomiting; the urine is very highly coloured, and tinges linen yellow; the stools are of a grey or clayey ap- pearance ; and a dull obtuse pain is felt in the right side, which is increased by pressure. When the disease has continued long, and proceeded from some chronic affection of the liver or other neighbouring parts, it is often attended with dropsical swellings of the feet and legs, and occasionally of the belly. Spots sometimes appear on different parts of the body ; the skm, yellow before, now turns brown or livid; passive discharges of blood and ulcera- tions have broken out; and in some instances the disease has assumed the form of scurvy. In recent cases of jaundice, in consequence of concretions obstructing the passage of the bile through, its proper channel, a cure, in all probability, may be effected by attention to the proper means; but where it is brought on by tumours in the circumjacent part, or has arisen in consequence of other diseases, &c., the chance is doubtful. If it arise during a state of pregnancy it will disappear on parturition, and is, therefore, of little consequence, requiring only patience for the cure. Still, however unpromising the hope of cure may at times appear, it is never- theless to be attempted, by restoring the flow of the bile through its proper channels, carrying it off by the intestines, and, in short, by reUeving the particular symptoms as they occur. Purgative medicines have been much used in this disease, with the view not only of removing costiveness, but of exciting the action of the biliary ducts by increasing that of the intes- tines. A soluble state of the bowels, where the disease arises either as a consequence of stones in the biliary ducts, or of spasmodic stricture, is undoubtedly necessary to a person labouring under this disease. With this in- tention take rhubarb in powder, 1 scruple; hard soap, \ drachm; submuriate of mercury, 12 grains. Make a mass, and divide it into twenty-four pills, of which take two or three at bedtime. Or, take aloetic pills, with myrrh, 15 grains; calomel,-24 grains ; syrup of ginger enough to make the mass into four pills, to be taken for a dose. Gentle exercise on horseback, with proper