LEA LEA [ 132 J scribed under tawed leather, from the lime water; and the thickening thereby occasioned is brought down by a bath of dogs' or pigeons' dung, diffused in water, where it remains till sufficiently supple, the lime being got out, and the skin made a perfectly white clean pelt. When it is to be dyed red it is sewed up in the form of a sack, with the grain side out- wards, and immersed in a cochineal bath of a warmth just equal to what the hand can sup- port, and is worked about a sufficient time till it is uniformly dyed. The sack is then put into a large vat containing sumach, infused in warm water, and kept for some hours there till it is sufficiently tanned. Skins intended to be blacked are merely sumached without any previous dyeing. The skins thus coloured are di'ied and polished as follows:—They are first stretched very .tightly upon a smooth inclined board, and rubbed over with a little oil to supple them. Those intended for black leather are previously rubbed over with iron liquor by means of a stiff brush, which instantly strikes a deep and uniform black: they are then po- lished with a polygonal ball of glass. Lastlj^ they are grained or ribbed by rubbing the grained surface of the leather very strongly with a ball of box-wood, cut in a proper manner for the desired purpose. In the process for making real morocco leather the skins, after coming from the bran, are thrown into a second bath made of white figs mi.\ed with water. In this they remain four or five days, when they are thoroughly salted with rock salt alone, after which they are fit to receive the dye, which, for the red, is cochineal and alum ; for yellow, pomegranate bark and alum. The skins are then tanned and dressed with a little oil, and dried. Much excellent leather, and of various dyes, is manufactured in Russia. The Saffian, or Manoquin, is prepared largely at Astracan, from buck and goat skins. Shagreen is also manu- factured at the same place. It consists only of horses' or asses' hides ; and of these only a small part, cut from the crupper line along the back in a semicircular form, about thirty-four inches upon the crupper, and twenty-eight along the back. The chief dyes are green, black, and blue. A blue colour is given to leather by immer- sing the skius for twenty-four hours in urine and indigo, after which it is boiled in alum; or the indigo may be mixed with red wine, and' the skins immersed in it. Red may be made by first washing the skins, then soaking thein for two hours in an infusion of galls, which is to be wrung out; after which they are to be immersed in a liquor prepared by a solution of privet, alum, and verdigris in water, when they must be steeped in a dye made of Brazil-wood boiled with lye. Purple is made by wetting the skins with a solution of roche alum in warm water ; and when dry they are rubbed by the hand with a de- coction of logwood in cold water. A light green may be communicated to leather by sap-green, diluted with boiled alum water; a dark green cast, by steel filings, and sal ammo- niac steeped in urine for a considerable time. Yellow is given by a decoction of aloes and linseed oil, or by a solution of dyers' groen- weed ; an orange by fustic berries boiled in alum water ; a deeper orange by turmeric. Shagreen is a sort of rough leather prepared from the skin of the spotted shark. The skin of the fish is first stripped, then extended on a table, and covered with bruised mustard seed. It is thus exposed to the weather for several days, and afterwards tanned. The best sha- green imported from Constantinople is of a brownish cast, and veiy hard; but when im- mersed in water it becomes soft and pliable, and may be dyed of any colour. It is often counter- feited by preparing morocco leather in the same manner as the skin of the fish. This fraud may be detected by the surface of the spurious manu- facture peeling or scaling off, while that of the genuine article remains perfectly sound. Sha- green is employed principally in the manufac ture of cases for mathematical instruments. Waterproof leather. To render leather water- proof the following method is adopted:—Take a sniall pipkin or earthen vessel, and put in it 3 ozs. of spermaceti, to be melted over a slow fire; then take f oz. of caoutchouc, or Indian rubber, cut into thin slices, and the spermaceti will completely dissolve this substance; add 8 ozs. of tallow, 2 ozs. of hog's lard, and 4 ozs. of amber varnish. The boots or shoes must be rendered dry and warm, and this cement well rubbed in three or four times with a brush. LEAVEN. See Bread. LEAVES: To Green for Ornamenting Fruit. Take small leaves fi'om a pear ti-ee, keep them closely stopped in a pan of verjuice and water, and give them a boil in some syi'up of apricots; put them between two pieces of glass to dry, smooth and cut them into the shape of apricot leaves (the leaves should be procured with stalks), and stick them about the apricots, or any other preserved fruits; but the leaves must be cut in the shape of the leaf whicli belongs to the fruit you ornament. LEAVES: To Skeletonise. We believe that this may be most readily effected by soak- ing them in a weak solution of chloride of lime, or bleaching powder; but the usual mode of reducing a leaf to a skeleton is by subjecting it