RIC ETC [ 395 ] calendered, or pressed between heated steel cylinders, and afterwards dressed, or passed over a small cylinder covered with flannel, which is moistened with a size made from buffalo hides, and then over a large one of heated steel. Gauzes also are dressed, and sometimes even lutestrings. The French goods are in general better dressed than the English. The Br.ocKiNG of the finished ribbons, or the winding them on cylindrical pieces of wood, is generally done at the warehouse of the manu- facturer. Galloons and Doubles ai'e strong thick ribbons, principally black, used for bindings, shoe-strings, &c. The narrow widths are called galloons; the broader, doubles. Italian silk is used in making the best qualities only, Bengal for the commoner. They are manufactured at Spitalfields, at Reading, in Devonshire, in the power-looms of Manchester, at Derby, and other places. There is a considerable exportation of these goods, as there is likewise of the produce of the steam ribbon-looms. Ferrets are coarse narrow ribbons shot with cotton, used for similar purposes. Ribbon Velvets are manufactured in Spital- fields and at St. Etienne: they are also made at Crefeld, in Rhenish Prussia, which has long been a principal seat of the velvet manufacture. In gold and silver ribbons a silk thread of similar colour is wound round by a flattened wire of the metal, afterwards woven. Lyon was particularly celebrated for its fabrics of this kind.—(Penny Cychprndia.) RICE {Oryza sativa) is a native of the East, according to Linnaeus of Ethiopia, and to others of India; but it is now spread over the tropical and subtropical regions of both hemispheres. It may almost be asserted that three-fourths of the population of the known world exist on this grain, so that even wheat itself is not more valu- able to the human race. The plant is annual, and varies in height from one to six feet accord- ing to the variety, of which there are no less than twenty enumerated. Besides being culti- vated in Asia, Africa, and America, it has long been introduced to the countries on the north shore of the Mediterranean ; but although cer- tain varieties are cultivated with success in Turkey, Greece, Italy, and Spain, none of the produce equals those of Carolina and Bengal. Some attempts have been made to grow it in Central Europe, Russia, Holland, and even in England, but without any beneficial results. The plant delights in wet, marshy situations, and the rice grounds are therefore in low, flat- lying countries, where water is abundant, and irrigation can be practised when necessary. The seed of the plant, deprived of its husk, is the rice of commerce : before it is husked it is called paddy. As an article of food rice is highly nutritious, easy of digestion, and well suited for weak stomachs and convalescents: being wholly free from laxative properties, it is well adapted to cases of weak bowels in which there is a tendency to diarrhoea. Although it con- stitutes the principal food of a great portion of the human race, with us it is more used as a luxury than an aliment: it is generally employed made into puddings, cakes, jellies, and soups, or boiled with milk, and eaten with sugar, pre- served fruits, or other adjuncts. Simply boiled in water till it is quite soft, it has of late years come into more general use as an accompani- ment to meat instead of potatoes, and the repeated failure of that crop tends to increase its consumption in that form. Carolina rice was found by Braconnot to contain 85 07 per cent, of starch; 3-60 of gluten; Owl of gum; 0-29 of uncrystallisable sugar; 0'13 of fixed oil; 4-80 of vegetable fibre; 5 00 of water, and 0 40 of saline substances. It is the small quantity of gluten that prevents the conversion of rice into bread; and here we see the wisdom of an all-bountiful Providence, in supplying to those people living in tropical climates an ali- ment that can be prepared without much exertion or labour of any kind, an earthen pot and a small fire being sufficient to enable the Indian to boil his rice and enjoy a meal, which he adroitly eats with his fingers, and which involves the exertion neither of grinding, making, nor baking, which the inhabitants of colder climates have to undergo. Besides being used as food, there are other economical purposes to which rice is applied. In Nepaul a spirit is distilled from the grain, and a beverage, called by the natives phaur, very much resembling our ale, and procured nearly in the same manner. Although the laws of the Birmans and Siamese forbid wine or intoxicating liquors, they make a spirit from rice, which they call lau. Two kinds of fer- mented liquor are prepared from rice by the natives of Java. The first, called Iddelc, is made by first boiling and stewing the rice, with a ferment called razi, consisting of onions, black pepper, and capsicum, and mixing the whole into small cakes, which are daily sold in the markets. After frequent stirring the mixture is rolled into balls, which are piled upon each other in a high earthen vessel, and, when fer- mentation has commenced, the badek exudes, and is collected at the bottom. The remainder, after fermentation is completed, has a sweet taste, and is sold as a dainty in the markets under the name of tdfe. Brom is the second kind, and is made from ketan, or glutinous rice. It is boiled in large quantities, and being stirred with razi, remains exposed in open tubs till