[ 562 ] W I N WIN British colonies, and with fair pi'ospects of suc- cess. As our possessions inckide climates and soils of every degree, it is not improbable that in time, with care and management, we shall equal, if not surpass, the same vintages of France and Germany. Madeira. See Madeira Marsala. See Marsala. Port. See Port. Sherry. See Sherry. The goodness of all wine, in a medical point of view, depends upon the quantity of astrin- gent matter contained in it. This is tecluiically called tannin, and the best mode of ascertain- ing its presence is to drop a solution of isinglass into a tumblerful of wine, when a gelatinous precipitate will take place in proportion to the quantity of tannin it contains. To obtain an assimilation to this essential in Ports and Clarets, and in order to produce the desired astringency, alum is the article in general use for adulteration, and this may be detected by the following test:—Drop some so- lution of subcarbonate of potash into the wine, and if alum is present the precipitate will be violet-coloured, and the colour and cloudiness will vanish again on adding a few drops of muriatic acid or caustic potash. Sugar of lead— a deadly poison—is also an article used by un- principled persons for adulterating wine; and its presence may be detected by the usual chemical test of water impregnated with sulphu- retted hydrogen gas and a small portion of muriatic acid, filling a glass about one-third full, and the rest with the wine under test. If a black precipitate falls it is lead, which may be easily proved by the action of a blow-pipe. Or the presence of any metallic ingredient may be discovered by the following more general test: —Take of quicklime 1 oz.; orpiment, ^ oz.; distilled water, half a pint. Dissolve and filter oyster shells and sulphur, each 1 oz.; keep them red-hot for a quarter of an hour; when cold add an equal part of cream of tartar and a pint of water, boil for an hour, then decant into ounce phials, adding 20 drops of the spirit of salt to each. A few drops of this liquor added to any kind of wine precipitates any metal except iron that may be contained in it. But even though wine may be unadulterated with deleterious substances, it is rarely that it can be procured genuine, the immense differ- ence in price between the prime and inferior sorts inducing the dealer to mix the rough Spanish with the Port, the former being whole- some enough, but by no means equal to the latter in strength, colour, and flavour. It then becomes necessary to imitate the essentials of prime wine; and the strength is given to it by the addition of spirits, which may be detected by putting the wine in a water-bath, and heat- ing it till it approaches the temperature of boil- ing water, when, should there be any brandy present, it will distil over, while the spirit of the wine remains, as no wine gives out its spirit at a less heat. The substances used for colouring wine are Brazil wood, bilberries, red saunders, or red beet, Campeachy wood, elder, &c. In order to ascertain if any artificial means have been used to produce a colour, put a gill of wine into a phial, with 1 oz. of pulverised fresh charcoal ; shake the mixture for a few minutes, when the natural colouring matter vv-ill be chemically destroyed, and the wine, when filtered, will yield a clear limpid fluid ; but if the wine is artificially coloured the substance employed will not be acted on by the charcoal, and the mixture will appear unchanged. During the war, when vast quantities of wine were supplied to the fleet, so barefaced was the system of adulteration that large chips of logwood were frequently left in the casks, the contractors not being at the trouble to substitute the sawdust of that wood, which, if mixed with carbonate of soda and put into water, communicates to it the colour and appearance of red wine; but this colour may be destroyed by adding a few drops of lemon juice. Brazil wood and potash are also used for giving a factitious crust to wine, this test of age not being always, as Mathews used to declare, " blown in the bottle." It is not unfrequently the case that a crust, to imitate the deposition made by age in wine, is applied to the casks by means of supertartrate of potash; for the older the wine the less of the tartar, or supertartrate of potash, is coiitaiued in it, consequently the greater the deposition; and the trick of putting new wine into old casks or bottles is often resorted to. To ascertain the quantity of the salt take a pint of wine, boil it down to one-half, and into that pour a solution of muriate of platinum, when a precipitate takes place, greater or less in proportion to the quantity of salt present. Having now apprised the reader in some measure of the tricks employed, and shown him how they may be detected, we shall pre- sume him to exercise caution in purchasing, and next make some observations upon the course he should pursue. First, as to the cellar, which should be as deep as possible, but dry, and cannot have too much air, otherwise the hoops, staves, or corks are apt to rot. When casks are intended to retain wine in what is called " the wood " for several years they should he painted with oil and some common ochre, sprinkling over them some fine sand, and then