SLE r ui ] SLE accoramg to the state of their health. Tn pur- suing this measure, however, we must not attempt to waken children from their sleep in a violent or terrifying manner, which is frequently done, and is extremely pernicious. In great disquietude of mind, and after violent passion, sleep is the more necessary, as these agitate and exhaust the frame more than the most fatiguing bodily labour. Hence many persons never sleep so soundly as when they are afflicted with grief and sorrow. A fretful and peevish temper, as well as a fit of the hypochondriasis, cannot be more effectually relieved than by a short sleep. Frequently, after a sleep of a few minutes only, we awake refreshed, we can reflect on our difficulties with a calm mind, and again reconcile ourselves to the troubles of life. In such situations, though we should not be able to sleep, even a quiet posture of the body, with the eyes closed, is of some advantage. There is scarcely any misfortune so great that it cannot be relieved or alleviated by sleep, as, on the contrary, we should inevitably sink under the pressure of affliction if this beneficent balm did not support us. Yet frequently, too, uneasiness of mind, by its continual stimulus on the sensorium, entirely prevents sleep hence the unquiet repose, and even whole sleepless nights, of those whose heads are filled with cares or important schemes. A.s mental labours exhaust our strength more than those of the body, literary men who employ themselves in long and profound reflections require more sleep than others. Though some persons whose body and mind are equally indolent have a greater inclination to sleep than the lively and laborious, yet it is not so beneficial to them, since they are destitute of the essential requisites to health, namely, activity and vigour. The most healthy, and those who lead the most regular lives, frequently have an uneasy and very short sleep; they also require less rest at one time than another. He who digests easily stands less in need of sleep than others. After taking aliment difficult of digestion na- ture herself invites to the enjoyment of rest, and to sleep in proportion to the time which is required for the concoction and assimilation of food. Excessive evacuations of whatever kind, as well as intoxication by strong liquors, render additional sleep necessary. In winter and sum- mer we require somewhat more time for sleep than in spring and autumn, because the vital spirits are less exhausted in the latter seasons, and the mass of the blood circulates more uniformly than in the cold of winter or heat of summer, when it is either too much retarded or accelerated. It is very improper to sit up too late in the long winter evenings, whether at the desk or the bottle, either of which is then more hurtful than in summer, because the want of sleep is greater. Those who wish to spend the winter in good health and useful labour should retire to bed at eight o'clock in the evening, and rise at three or four o'clock in the morning. A winter morn- ing, indeed, is not very charming, but the evening is naturally still less so; and there is no doubt that we can perform every kind of work with more alacrity and success in the early part of the day than at night, and that our eyes would likewise be benefited by this regulation, after sleep has invigorated them to undertake any task in the morning; but they are fatigued at night from the exertions of a whole day. Every stimulus may interrupt sleep, or at least render it uneasy, and often occasion dreams, the cause cf which is generally owing to the irritation of the stomach or intestinal canal. Dreams are, as it were, a middle state between sleeping and waking, and generally indicate some defect in the body, unless they give representations which originate in the occurrences of the preceding day. A sleep after dinner ought never to exceed one hour, and it is also much better sitting than lying horizontally ; for in the latter case we are more subject to fluctuations of the blood towards the head, and consequently to headache. Much depends upon the manner of lying in bed, and on the posture to which we accustom ourselves. To lie on the back, with the arms over the head, prevents the circulation of the blood to the upper extremities, and is not unfrequently productive of serious consequences. It is equally pernicious to lie in a crooked pos- ture, or with the breast very low and bent inwards, by which the intestines are compressed and obstructed in their motions, and the blood cannot easily circulate downwards, whence may arise giddiness and even apoplexy. Lying on the back is equally improper, and productive of frightful dreams, together with many other inconveniences. The reverse posture is like- wise noxious, as the stomach is thus violently oppressed, the free respiration much impeded, and the whole circulation of the fluids in the chest and abdomen prevented, to the great injury of health. The most proper posture, then, is on one side, with the body straight, the limbs slightly bent (not stretched, because they ought to rest), so that the body may lie somewhat higher than the legs. When the head is laid high a short sleep is more refreshing than a longer one, when it is reclined too low. To healthy people it is a matter of no consequence on which side they lie, and they may safely in this respect follow their