PIG [ 326 ] PIG of dividing is from the neck to the point a. Fig. 2 represents the back of the pigeon, and the insertion of the knife is at a, and cut to b and c, when each portion may be divided into two pieces, and helped. PIGEONS : To Choose. These birds should be very fresh ; therefore observe that if the vent is discoloured, and the parts about it are flabby, the pigeon is stale; if the feet are harsh and dry the bird is old, but if supple it is young. Tame pigeons are larger than wild ones, and are generally preferred to them. They should be fat and tender; but many persons are apt to be imposed upon in regard to the size, because a full crop is as large as the whole body of a small pigeon. PIGEONS: To Roast. Scald some parsley, and chop it with the pigeons' livers; mix them with a piece of fresh butter, and season with pepper and salt; put a portion inside each pigeon, cover the breast with a slice of bacon fat, and roast them. Serve with parsley and butter in the dish. PIGEONS : To Truss. Cut off the neck next to the back ; take out the crop, separate the vent, and draw out the guts and gizzard, but not the liver. If the birds are to be roasted the toes must be cut off, a slit made in one of the legs, and the other put through it. Draw the legs tightly to the pinions, and thrust a skewer quite through the body, so as to secure to it both wings and legs. Flatten the breast, clean the gizzard, put it on one of the pinions, and turn the point on the back. If the pigeons are to be stewed, boiled, or made into a pie, the feet must be cut off at the joints, the legs turned and fastened on the sides, close to the pinions. PIGEONS A LA BRUNSWICK. Take half a dozen small pigeons, which braise with slices of bacon and a little lemon juice; roast some truffles on hot ashes, and blanch some whole artichoke bottoms in a little stock. Make a farce with veal sweetbreads, fat livers, streaked bacon, breast of fowl or game minced, and give these a few turns with some good stock, the yolks of eggs, and rich cream. Put a layer of this farce on a dish, then place the artichoke bottoms, in each of which stick a truffle, and between each a pigeon, and a slice of veal glazed on the latter ; cover the whole with the remainder of the farce, and pour over it some veal gravy. PIGEONS A LA CASSEROLE. Truss your pigeons with the-feet inwards, and having put some butter into a stewpan, lay in the pigeons, breast downwards; as soon as it is melted season it with salt, pepper, and pounded aromatic herbs; set the pan on a brisk fire, turn the birds every ten minutes for the space of half an hour, which will be sufficient to cook them ; then put them on a dish, take three-fourths of the butter from the pan, mix with the remainder a little flour, the juice of a lemon or two spoonsful of vinegar, and half a glass of water; boil up twice, and then pour it over the birds. PIGEONS A LA CHARMANTE. Scald half a dozen small pigeons, and braise them with a few slices of bacon and lemon, a bundle of herbs, a proper quantity of stock, pepper, and salt. In the meantime lard three or four sweetbreads, which stew slowly in a little broth, with some thin slices of veal, a bundle of herbs, two cloves, basil, and two or three scallions. As soon as they are done skim, strain, and reduce the liquor, and glaze the sweetbreads with it; then lay them on a dish alternately with the pigeons, over which pour a sauce made as follows :—-Put a little consomme into the pan with glaze, stir it round to gather what may adhere to the bottom, then strain, and add more pepper and salt if requisite; squeeze in a little lemon juice. Take care none of the sauce goes on the sweetbreads, as it would spoil the look of the glaze. ■ PIGEONS, COMPOTE OF. Truss and tie into proper form three pigeons ; put a piece of butter into a saucepan, add to it a dessert-spoon- ful of flour, and make a roux, in which brown some slices of streaked bacon ; pour on the pigeons a ladleful and a half of water, with some parsley, scallions, a bay leaf, mushroom, salt, and pepper; stir well till it boils, skim it, and when the pigeons are three parts done put in some small onions well picked, and previously done up in a little butter and drained. Lay the birds in a dish, and garnish with the onions and bacon. PIGEONS A LA CRAPAUDINE. Split the pigeons down the back, and flatten them with- out breaking the bones ; rub them with oil, salt, pepper, parsley, and chives, the whole chojiped finely, making them take the seasoning as much as possible ; then cover them with crumbs of bread or raspings, and broil them over a slow fire. When well browned serve them with a sauce of veijuice or vinegar, salt, pepper, shallots chopped up, and warmed with a piece of butter. PIGEONS IN CREAM. Truss for boiling; blanch and put them into a stewpan -with a piece of butter; harden without browning; dredge in a little flour, moisten with stock, and season as in Pigeons, Compote of ; add a handful of nice mushrooms and onions. When ready pour off the sauce, reduce, thicken with a little rich cream, add yolks or not, and a little nutmeg, and serve as above. PIGEONS, FRICASSEE OF. Cut some