SAU C 418 3 SAU prepared to get warm, and either pour the whole over the beef or send it up separately. SAUER-BRANTON. To a sirloin of Leef of 20 lbs. take one table-spoonful of allspice, four dozen cloves, a lemon sliced, a clove of garlic, laurel and bay leaves, parsley and sweet herbs, of each a small quantity. Stick the cloves in the meat, which lay in the pan, with the above articles over it, and just covered with vinegar ; let it remain in this pickle for a fortnight, turning it daily, and keeping the pan closely covered: two days before dressing the beef, lard, and then replace it in the pickle. Such a piece of beef will require eight hours' roasting, and should be done on a cradle spit, a good gravy being made to baste it with, as the vinegar may make it too acid. This pickle will be strong enough for a small leg of mutton, and, if the vinegar be good, it ought also to serve for a hare. SAUER-KRAUT. Have ready a vinegar, white wine, or brandy cask, about four inches from the bottom of which put in a vent peg. Take a number of the best white cabbages, strip off all the outside leaves, and slice the hearts transversely as thin as possible until you have as much as you require ; then lay over the bottom of the cask osier or vine twigs to the height of the vent peg; on these put alternate layers of sliced cabbage and salt, in the pro- portion of 1 lb. of the latter to 50 lbs. of the former : let each layer of cabbages be at least three inches thick. When the cask is about two-thirds full put cabbage leaves all over, cover them with a cloth and a round piece of wood which will exactly fit the inside of the cask, and place a stone or heavy weight upon it. In four or five days' time draw out the peg, and let the brine run off; add more salt, and repeat this operation, at intervals of a month at latest, until that which flows from the cask is perfectly clear and free from smell. Some add juniper and caraways to the salt in making sauer-kraut. Be careful to keep the cask in a moderate tempera- ture during the whole year. SAUSAGES. Common farm-house sausages are made with nearly equal parts of fat and lean pork coarsely chopped, and skin which has been previously turned inside out, scraped very thin, washed with exceeding nicety, and wiped very dry, when they will remain good for some length of time. Odd scraps and trimmings of pork are usually taken for sausage meat when the pig is killed and cut up at home; but the chine and blade-bone are preferred, in general, for the purpose. The pork rinds will make a strong and almost flavourless jelly, which may be used with excellent effect for stock, and which, with the addition of some pork bones, plenty of vegetables, and some dried peas, will make a very nutritious soup for those who do not ohject to the pork flavour which the bones will give. Half an ounce of salt, and nearly or quite J oz. of pepper, will sufficiently season each pound of the sausage meat. SAUSAGES, BOLOGNA. Take the legs and shoulders of a pig, from which cut all the lean, and mix it well with a seasoning made of salt, pepper, coriander, cloves, cinnamon, nut- meg, and bay leaf. When properly flavoured take some bacon, lard, and leaf fat, and cut the whole into dice ; mix the fat and lean together, put it into ox-guts, tie up the ends, lay the sausages in a pan of water with salt and salt- petre, cover the pan closely, and leave it. In a week's time take out the sausages, drain them, tie them between two pieces of wood, and hang them up to dry and smoke. When dry untie them, and rub each over with oil and the ashes of vine twigs mixed together. Keep them in a dry place. SAUSAGES, BRUNSWICK. Take 5 lbs. of lean pork, 5 lbs. of leaf fat and liver, and 2 lbs. of good bacon; chop the pork, liver, and lean of the bacon finely, and cut the leaf fat in dice ; season with 2 ozs. of salt in fine powder, 1 oz. of pepper, ^ oz. of ground saltpetre, with a shallot or two, eight cloves of garlic, sugar, and marjoram or sage. This quantity may be divided, and flavoured in different ways: if so, the sausages ought to be labelled. Mix the whole together with a quart of good ale, and leave it a day or two till it is well incorporated. Fill the skins, but not too full : boil or smoke them for eating raw. They are excellent pounded. SAUSAGES, OXFORD. Chop Hlb. of pork and the same quantity of veal, both clear of skin and sinews ; add thereto f lb. of beef suet; mince and mix them; steep the cnimb of a penny loaf in water, put it to the meat, and with it some dried sage, pepper, and salt. SAUSAGES, ROYAL. Mince small the meat of a partridge, a capon or pullet, a piece of gammon and other bacon, and a bit of leg of veal; shred also some parsley, chives, truffles, and mushrooms; mix these together, and season with pepper and salt, beaten spice, and garlic ; bind the whole with the yolks of six and the whites of two eggs, and a little cream. When thoroughly mixed roll the preparation into thick pieces, which wrap in very thin slices of fillet of veal well beaten with a rolling-pin. Each sausage should be about the thickness of a man's wrist, and of a proportionate length. Line an oval stewpan with slices of bacon and thin beefsteaks, put in the sausages, cover them with beefsteaks and bacon, shut the stewpan very closely, and set it on a moderate fire; put hot embers on the lid, and let it stand ten or twelve hours; then take it off, and when cold