[ 226 ] MUS MUS MUSCLES : To Eagout. Put the muscles into a saucepan, and stew them till they open ; then take them out of the shells, and save the liquor. Lay in the pan a piece of butter, a few chopped mushrooms, a little parsley, and grated lemon-peel; stir the whole together, adding some gravy, pepper, and salt; thicken it with flour, boil it up, put in the muscles, with their liquoi% and when hot serve them up. There is a poi- sonous quality in some muscles, which is said to arise fi-ora the presence of a small crab, and which should always be removed before they are dressed ; but, from whatever cause this poisonous property may arise, it may be detected by putting into the pan a piece of silver, which will be dis- coloured if the fish are unwholesome. MUSCLES : To Stew. Wash them in several waters, put them in a stewpan, and cover them closely. Let them stew till the shells open, then pick out the muscles, and examine under the tongue of each to see if there be a small crab, and if there is throw it away. Pick off likewise the tough membrane under the tongue ; then put the muscles into a saucepan, adding to every quart of fish half a pint of the liquor strained through a sieve ; put in a few blades of mace, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and stew them gently. Lay some toasted bread in the dish, pour the muscles on it, and serve them up. MUSH, or Polenta. To two quarts of boil- ing water, with a little salt in it, take 1 lb. of Indian-corn meal; let it fall carefully from one hand into the boiling water, while you stir it constantly with a slice held in the other hand ; let it boil three quarters of an hour, keeping it stirred all the time, and taking care that it does not burn. When boiled pour the mush into a deep dish. It may either be eaten hot with milk, or remain till cold, then turned out of the dish upside down, when it will be quite solid. It is very good cold ; also cut in slices and fried in butter, to which fried onions and sage, with a little parsley, may be added, with pepper and salt. A slice laid in a cheese-toaster, with cheese upon it, either sliced or scraped, makes an excellent Welsh rarebit. MUSH CAKES. To make mush cakes take a quart of cold mush, mix in it half a pint of wheat flour, and a little butter or lard. Make it up into little cakes with your hands, flour them, and bake them on a griddle or in a drip- ping-pan. MUSH FLANNEL CAKES. Mix one pmt of mush with two of wheat flour, a spoonful of butter or lard, two eggs, and half a tea-cupful of yeast. Make it into a batter with water or milk, and bake like buckwheat cakes MUSH, FRIED. Fried mush is a good plam dessert, eaten with sugar and cream. Cut the cold mush in slices half an inch thick, or m:ike tliem into small cakes, dip them in flour, and fry them in hot lard. MUSH ROLLS. Take a pint of Indian- corn meal, pour on it three pints of boiling water, Stirling it as you pour ; put in 3 ozs. of lard, a table-spoonful of salt, and when milk- warm put in two table-spoonsful of yeast; then mix in wheat flour, and make it a soft dough; cover the pan closely, set it in a warm place till it begins to rise, and as soon as light set it in a cold place. Mould the rolls out an hour before you bake them, and allow them to rise in the dripping-pan. It will do to bake in a large cake rolled out. MUSHROOM CATSUP. See Ketchup, MUSHEOOM. MUSHROOM POWDER. After the mush rooms have been dried whole they may be set before the fire till crisp; then grind and sift them through a fine sieve, and preserve in small bottles closely corked. MUSHROOM SALAD. Cut your mush- rooms into dice, which put into a saucepan with oil, and a slice or two of peeled lemon ; simmer a short time, then drain, and let them cool. When quite cold put them into a salad dish, with chopped parsley, shallots, pepper, and salt. Prepare them like other salads with oil and vinegar. MUSHROOMS. The mushrooms used in cookery are either cultivated artificially, or ai'e found growing wild in open pasture land. Those that grow near or under trees are generally poisonous. The eatable mushrooms first appear very small, and of a round form, on a little stalk, and are hence called buttons. They grow very rapidly, and the upper part and stalk are white. As they increase in size the under part gradually opens, and shows a fringed fur of a very fine salmon colour, which continues more or less till the mushroom has gained some size, and then turns to a dark brown. These marks should be attended to, and likewise whether the skin can be easily parted from the edge and middle, and whether they have a pleasant smell. Those which are poisonous have a yellow skin, and the under part has not the clear flesh colour of the real mushroom; besides which they smell rank and disagreeable, and the fur is white or yellow. Besides the several poisonous miishrooms resembling this species there is a variety of the tubei which, although an innocuous catsup may be made from them, yet are dangerous to be eaten, being highly indigestible, and apt to swell in the stomach, producing very painful and dangerous consequences. The best way to test the quality of mushrooms is to introduce a silver spoon, or a new shilling, a sixpence, or an onion into a vessel in which mushrooms ai-e seething. If, oo