IDI [ 63 ] capable of cultivating the memory and attention. Though in general harmless and timid, yet there are occasionally exceptions. We will now consider another and disputed form of mental disease, which, in conformity to the nomenclature of many experienced observers, we have denominated moral insanity. It has professedly been adopted, because phy- sicians have not been able to detect any delusion or hallucination in the persons affected. The intellectual faculties appear to have sustained but little injury, but the feelings and affections are perverted and depraved, and the power of self-government is lost or greatly impaired. Thus Spurzheim defines insanity to be either a morbid condition of any intellectual faculty, without the person being aware of this, or the existence of some of the natural propensities in such violence that it is impossible not to yield to them. Dr. Elliotson, while approving of this, suggests that there should be included in the definition the idea of such irresistible violence as leads to criminal acts. Pinel was so struck with the peculiarity of this form that he intro- duced it as a distinct species in his work, under the title of " madness without delirium or hallu- cination." Esquirol, indeed, goes so far as to assert that this is the proper characteristic of mental de- rangement. " There are madmen," he observes, " in whom it is difficult to discover any trace of hallucination ; but there are none in whom the passions and moral affections are not disordered, perverted, or destroyed. I have, in this parti- cular, met with no exception." Concurring in these opinions from actual observation, Dr. Prichard, in a late essay on this subject, has proposed the following defini- tion :— " Moral insanity or madness consists in a morbid perversion of the natural feelings, affec- tions, inclinations, temper, habits, and moral dispositions, without any notable lesion of the intellect or knowing and reasoning faculties, and particularly without any maniacal halluci- nation." According to our author individuals of this description are often, before the idea of their in- sanity occurs, reputed to be of singular, wayward, and eccentric character. They commit many equivocal actions; their temper and disposition are found to have undergone a change, probably in consequence of some misfortune or loss, or from some shock to the constitution. The al- teration is gradual, but sufficient to excite the apprehension and solicitude of friends; and though- they may be unwilling to recognise the actual disease, yet they must notice caprice and fickleness in pursuits, united with a total per- version of affections. Enmity against their dearest friends is a frequent trait in such individuals. " Persons labouring under this disorder are capable of reasoning or supporting an argument on any subject within their sphere of knowledge that may be presented to them, and they often display great ingenuity in giving reasons for their eccentric conduct, and in accounting for and justifying the state of moral feeling under which they appear to exist." They think and act, however, under the influence of strongly excited feelings. It is under this division of insanity that the commission of acts of violence very frequently occurs. The French writers insist much on a faulty education as the principal cause, and there is no doubt that they have given in this the key to most of the histories with which legal and me- dical works have lately been filled. The temper is scarcely attempted to be restrained; nay, its very transports are encouraged and justified, and it is hence not surprising that, as age advances, liberty of action should be converted into licen- tiousness. France has tried the experiment. Other countries are rapidly feeling its early results. Pinel relates the case of a self-willed, violent boy, encouraged by his mother in every caprice and passion. The slightest opposition produced actual violence. Any animal that offended him was put to death. As he grew up he was con- stantly engaged in broils, and ended his career by murdering a person who used offensive lan- guage to him. On his trial this course of conduct was adduced as proof of his insanity, and he was condemned to perpetual confinement in the Bicetre. The results of this species are various. In many it displays itself in an irresistible propen- sity to commit murder (homicidal mania); in others to commit theft; while some are impelled to set fire to buildings, often of the most vene- rable description. We are told that, when this state is connected with the false belief of some personal injury actually sustained, " it does not come under the head of moral insanity." Here is an hallucination. " But if the morliid pheno- mena include merely the expressions of intense malevolence, excited without ground and provo- cation, actual or supposed, the case is strictly one of moral insanity." Though there are many, as above described, who have this propensity to commit each and every kind of mischief, yet there are some where the disease commences and ends in intense irascibility. A large proportion are subject to melancholy and dejection of mind, unaccom- panied, however, by any illusion. It would appear to be confined to no age, and, indeed, is said occasionally to make its appearance iu those