[ 51 ] HOU HOU Furs and woollen cloths are preserved in the same way, and if a house is much infested with moths the parcels should be put into a cool oven or hot closet every three or four weeks for a night, and then be opened, and every article well shaken and replaced. It is very important to keep them in a dry, cool place. General neat- ness, however, is the greatest enemy to these troublesome insects, and by frequently clearing out wardrobes and drawers all such intruders are disturbed. It is well to expose to the air, but not to the sun, and thoroughly shake any stocks of linen or woollen clothes which are lying out of use. As bugs have become so general a nuisance it is necessary to observe that much care and attention are required to exterminate them. This may be done by taking the bed- steads entirely asunder, and washing every part of them with a strong solution of corrosive sublimate. If they infest the walls the paper should be removed, and the walls washed with the same preparation before repapering them; and in inveterate cases the floor should be painted all round the skirting board to the extent of about four inches. As the corrosive sublimate is a strong poison the bottle contain- ing it should be so marked, and a caution given to whoever applies it. Perhaps the cheapest preparation is a solution of the sublimate in spirit of turpentine, with the addition of water: the powerful smell of the turpentine will tend to further the object in view. It is a bad plan to nail carpets down in bedrooms, as the dust oc- casioned by sweeping them on the floor injures the furniture, and prevents the frequent scrub- bing of the floor, which is so essential to health and cleanliness : they should be of a convenient size for taking up and beating very frequently. Every separate piece of bed furniture should be marked with a number, as No. 1 for one room. No. 2 for another, and so on, that when washed there may arise no difficulty in replacing them. The same plan should be observed with mattresses, beds, bolsters, pillows, blankets, and quilts; and an inventory of the whole should be affixed in some convenient place in each room. To prevent blinds from blowing out under the sashes in windy weather, and breaking the windows, rings should be fixed to the blinds, and guide lines fastened to the window-frames. The summer is the best season for examining and repairing household linen, as the days are long, and servants more at leisure from the absence of fires. Sheets should be turned sides to the middle before they get very thin to avoid patching, which has a very unsightly appearance. July is a good month for washing counterpanes, blankets, and heavy things in general, for they dry quickly, and are consequently of a better colour. In all large " washes " the linen, and especially cotton stockings, should be put to soak overnight; both soap and labour are thus saved. You should always provide your washers with little wooden bowls to throw their soap into, which will prevent their letting it stand in the water wasting. Make also a proper flannel " blue-bag," and let it be a rule that this and the bowls shall be delivered up after the wash, that they may be set aside in readiness for another occasion. It is a very bad plan to allow clothes to remain long dirty. In large families three weeks should be the longest space between the washes, for not only are the clothes injured, but more soap and labour are required to get them clean. In washing flannels prepare a lather expressly of soft water, soap, and a good deal of blue. Do not rinse them after the lather, but wring them as dry as possible, shake them, and hang them out. Flannel should be scalded before it is made up, since itivill shrink in the first washing. To remove the starch or " dressing " from new Irish linen it should be put to soak in cold water overnight, and be scalded next morning. Silk of almost any colour may be washed by putting it in soak for a night in cold soft water (for black silk add some blue); the next day wash it out, wring it as dry as you can, and wipe off the wet that remains with a soft cloth ; then mangle or iron it. In July currant, raspberry, and gooseberry jelly and jam are made. When black currant jelly is made for medicinal purposes moist sugar should be used; but very coarse moist sugar spoils the flavour of all fruits excepting apples. Before the period for preserving, &c., arrives all bottles and jars necessary for the purpose should be thoroughly cleaned and dried, and a stock of sugar should be laid in, remembering always that what is most pure is best for pre- serves of all descriptions. It is always a bad plan to buy sugar by the pound, for the paper is weighed in with eveiy pound. To break loaf sugar into small pieces ready for the nippers use an iron hammer and cleaver; a wooden mallet chips, and the par- ticles of wood become so incorporated with the sugar dust that it is difficult to separate them. Oranges are preserved, and orange wine is made in May. A little honey added to rasp- berry jam makes it taste richer. In summer fresh butter is usually soft and disagreeable to the eye, even when the flavour is good. To prevent this place the dish which contains the butter to stand in cold spring water, with a little saltpetre dissolved in it. Butter may be brought to table in water, but it should never stand long in it, for the part which comes in contact with the water becomes white, and has an unpleasant appearance. If fresh butler