LOB [ 1S9 ] LOB out the meat from the claws and bodies, pound it in a mortar, add the soft part of one lob- ster, and season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, adding three table-spoonsful of vinegar; melt ^ lb. of butter, and mix it with the pounded meat and the crumb of a slice of bread grated. Put puff paste round the edge and side of the dish, put in the tail of the lobster, then a layer of oysters with their liquor, and next the pounded meat; cover it with a puff paste, and bake it till the paste is done. Before serving pour in some rich gravy, made of a little weak stock in which the lobster shells have been boiled, with an onion, pepper, and salt, and which has been strained and thickened with a bit of butter rolled in flour. LOBSTER PIE (2). Take out as whole as possible the meat from the tail and claws of two or three boiled lobsters, cut it into slices, and season with nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Make a forcemeat of the soft part of the bodies, together with grated bread, some parsley, and one anchovy minced, grated lemon-peel, mace, salt, pepper, the yolks of two hard-boUed eggs bruised, and a bit of butter; mix the whole together with the yolk of an egg well beaten, and make it up into small balls. Put the lobster into a pie dish, and cover it with the forcemeat balls and hard-boiled yolks of eggs; add more than half a pint of rich white stock, a glass of white wine, and a table-spoonful of lemon juice or vinegar; cover it with puff paste, and bake it only till the paste is done. LOBSTER RISSOLES. Extract the meat of a boiled lobster, mince it as fine as possible, mix with it the coral pounded till smooth, and some yolks of hard-boiled eggs, also pounded. Season it with Cayenne pepper, powdered mace, and a very little salt. Make a batter of beaten eggs, milk, and flour, allowing to each egg two large table-spoonsful of milk and a large tea-spoonful of flour. Beat the batter well, and then mix the lobster with it gradually till it is stiff enough to make oval balls about the size of a large plum. Fry them in the best salad oil, and serve them up either warm or cold. LOBSTER, ROASTED. More than half boil a lobster, take it out of the water, and while hot rub it with butter; put it in a Dutch oven, baste it well till nicely frothed, and serve with melted butter. LOBSTER SALAD. Take one or two heads of white-heart lettuce : they should be as fresh as possible. If they are not " morning gathered " lay them in spring water for an hour or two, then carefully wash them, and trim off all the withered or cankered leaves; let them drain awhile, and dry them lightly in a clean napkin. To make the dressing, boil two eggs for twelve minutes, and put them in a basin of cold water for a few minutes, till the yolks become thoroughly cold and hard. Rub the yolks through a sieve with a wooden spoon, and mix them with a table-spoonful of water ; then add two table-spoonsful of oil or melted butter. When these are well mixed add by degrees a tea- spoonful of salt and the same of made mustard, and when these are smoothly united add very gradually three table-spoonsful of vinegar. Take out the finest parts of a lobster, and mince them small. Just before it is to be served mince the lettuce, and mix it with the lobster and dressing; cut up the white of an egg, ad garnish the salad with it. Hen lobsters are preferred for salad on account of their coral. LOBSTER SAUCE (1). Pound the coral, pour upon it two spoonsful of gravy, and strain it into some melted butter; then put in the meat of the lobster, give all one boil, and add the squeeze of a lemon. You may, if you choose, add two anchovies pounded. LOBSTER SAUCE (2). Take a hen lobster, and lift up the tail to observe whether the eggs are there, for the goodness of the sauce depends upon the spawn, which gives it both a fine flavour and a brilliant colour. If you get a live lobster, and boil it yourself, it will be best; then pick out the spawn and red part, put the same into a mortar, add thereto | oz. of butter, pound it till smooth, and rub it through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon; cut the meat into small squares, or divide it with a fork ; put the pounded spawn into melted butter, and stir the whole till thoroughly mixed; then add the meat of the lobster, and warm it on the fire, taking care not to let it boil, which would spoil its colour. Some persons substitute beef or veal gravy for melted butter, and add thereto the high season- ing of anchovy, Cayenne, catsup, lemon juice, and wine, but certainly not to the advantage of the sauce. Save some of the inside of the red spawn, and rub it through a sieve, but without butter. This will make an excellent garnish. The live spawn of lobsters may be kept some time in strong salt and water, or in ice. LOBSTER IN A SAVOURY JELLY Make a good aspic jelly, which being very clear, and the mould ready in ice, half fill the latter with the jelly, and when it is set lay some anchovies shred fine in what form you please on the jelly; then your lobster, cut the same as for salad, over it; fill the mould with the re- mainder of the jelly, and when set serve it for a second-course entree or a supper dish. LOBSTER, SMALL TIMBALES OF. Take the white meat from a couple of small lobsters, and cut it into dice ; mix two spoonsful of bechamel with J lb. of fresh butter, a little shred parsley, a tea-spoonful of essence of an-