HAA [ 9 J GUR igniting at a temperature a little above 21 •2' Fahrenheit. It is supposed to consist of the elements of the cotton, together with, those of nitric acid, but an accurate analysis of it has not yet been made. ■ Collodion is made by dissolving 30 grains of gun cotton in 1 oz. of strong sulphuric ether. It requires to stand for a day to complete the union. This forms the best of applications to wounds. When the bleeding has ceased bring the lips of the wound closely together, and apply over it the collodion by means of a camel's hair brush. It excludes the air, and is not removed by washing. GURNETS : To Broil. Having cut off their heads, dip them in melted butter with salt, and broil them, but not over too fierce a fire. Serve them either with plain anchovy sauce, or a sauce made as follows:—Put some fresh butter, a little flour, and a leek into a saucepan, with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; moisten with vinegar and water, add a couple of anchovies, and keep it on the fire, shaking constantly till the fish are done. Dish them, and pour the sauce over. GUTTA PERCHA is a purely Malay name, gutta in that language meaning gum, and percha (pronounced pertsha) is the name of the tree producing it. It is therefore, literally, " percha gum." The tree is known to botanists as Isonandra gutta. This substance, when fresh and pure, is of a dirty white colour, and of a greasy feel, with a peculiar leathery smell. It is not affected by boiling alcohol, but dissolves readily in boiling spirits of turpentine, and also in naphtha and coal tar. A good cement for luting bottles and other purposes is formed by boiling together two parts of gutta, one part of coal tar, and one part of resin. When required for use it can always be made plastic by putting the pot con- taining it over the fire for a few minutes. The gutta itself is highly inflammable: a strip cut ofl' takes light, and burns with a bright flame, emitting sparks, and dropping a black residuum in the manner of sealing-wax, which m its combustion it very much resembles. But the great peculiarity of this substance, and that which makes it so eminently useful for many purposes, is the effect of boiling water upon it. When immersed for a few minutes in water above 150" Fahrenheit it becomes soft and plastic, so as to be capable of being moulded to any required shape or form, which it retains upon cooling. If a strip of it be cut off and plunged into boiling water it contracts in size, both in length and breadth. It is this plasticity when plunged into boiling water that has allowed of its being applied to so many useful purposes, and which first induced some Malays to fabricate it into whips, which were brought into town, and led to its further notice. The natives have subsequently ex- tended their manufactures to buckets, basins, jugs, shoes, traces, vessels for cooling wines, and several other domestic uses; but the number of patents lately taken out for the manufacture of the article in England proves how much attention it has already attracted, and how extensively useful it is likely to become. Of all the purposes, however, to which it may be adapted, none is so valuable as its appli- cability to the practice of surgery. Here it becomes one of the most useful auxiliaries to that branch of the healing art which of all is the least conjectural. Its easy plasticity, and power of i-etaining any shape given to it when cool, at once pointed it out as suitable for the manufacture of bougies, and many advantages- have been found in the use of this substance. It also answers very well for the tubes of syringes, which are always getting out of order when made of caoutchouc. Its utility in fracture of the lower jaw must at once strike any surgeon. So well does it mould itself to every sinuosity that it is more like giving the patient a new bone than a mere support. A man lately brought into a hospital, who had his lower jaw broken by the kick of a horse, and which was so severe as to cause hemorrhage from the ears, smashing the bone into several fragments, was able to eat and speak three days after the accident, and felt so well with his gutta splint that be insisted on leaving the hospital within ten days. Among the various applications of gutta percha are thread, cord, tubular staves, diving bands, constables' staves, sticks, whips, ink- stands, medallions, shields, water buckets, stereotype plates, and almost every other de- scription of article, both useful and ornamental. The first articles of use made of gutta percha in this country were laid before the Society of Arts in 1844, and consisted of a lathe band, a short length of pipe, and a bottle- case, and from the period mentioned to July 11th, in 1848, between 600 and 700 tons had been imported for the Gutta Percha Company. From twenty to sixty tons are now regularly imported every month. GYMNASTICS. See Exercise and Spine (Distorted). GYPSUM. See Plaster of Paris. H HAARLEM CAKES. Sift into a pan three pints of flour, warm in a saucepan a pint of milk, and cut up in it ^ lb. of fresh butter.