[ 2Td ] OR A 0 R A ORANGE CHIPS : To Candy. Pare the oranges thin, leaving very little white on the rinds, into spring water. Boil them in the same water till tender, continuing to add fresh as the former wastes. Make a thin syrup with part of the water they are boiled in ; then add the rinds, but without letting them boil much; take them ofl, and let them stand three or four days, then repeat the boiling till the syrup draws in threads between the fingers, when they must be taken off instantly, and drained in a cullender. Take out only a few at a time, that they may not cool so fast as to make it difficult to part them. The best way is to take the chips out singly, and lay them apart on a wire sieve to dry iu a stove or before the fire. About S lbs. of sugar will make syrup enough for the peels of twenty-five oranges. ORANGE "cream. Pare the rind of a Seville orange very thin, squeeze the juice of four oranges, and put it with the peel into a tossing-pan, with a pint of water and 8 ozs. of sugar; beat the whites of five eggs, mix the whole together, set it over a slow fire, stir it all one way till it looks thick and white, and then strain it through a gauze sieve, stirring it till cold. Then beat the yolks of the five eggs very fine, and put it into the pan with some cream, stir it over the fire till ready to boil ; then pour it into a basin, and stir it till quite cold before you put it into glasses. ORANGE CREAM, FROTHED Make a pint of cream very sweet, put it over the fire, and let it just boil; then put the juice of a large orange into a small deep glass, having previously steeped a bit of orange-peel for a short time in the juice. When the cream is almost cold pour it out of a teapot upon the juice, holding it as high as possible. ORANGE CUSTARD. Having boiled the rind of a Seville orange till very tender, beat it in a mortar to a fine paste; put to it the juice of a Seville orange, a spoonful of the best brandy, 4 ozs. of loaf sugar, and the yolks of four eggs ; beat them all well together ten minutes, and then pour in by degrees a pint of boiling cream ; keep beating it till cold, and then put it into custard glasses. Set them in an earthen dish of hot water, let them stand till they are set, and then stick preserved orange or orange chips on the top. It may be served hot or cold. ORANGE-FLOWER BALLS, Whip up the whites of two eggs with 3 lbs. of powder sugar, adding by degrees 1 oz. of orange-flower water, and a pinch of carmine in powder. When these ingredients form a tolerably firm paste pour it on a sheet of paper, and cut it in pieces, ivhich make into little balls by rolling them in your hands ; place them on paper about half an inch apart, and put them into the oven till they swell a little; then take them out, and keep them dry. ORANGE-FLOWER BISCUITS. Take the yolks of six: eggs, and beat them up with thi-ee spoonsful of orange-flower marmalade and some green lemon-peel grated; then add the whites of twelve eggs whipped to a froth, and J lb. of sifted flour. Mix these together well, put the preparation into paper cases, bake like other biscuits, and glaze them when done. ORANGE ■ FLOWER CAKES. Take i lb. of fresh orange flowers picked, and 2 lbs. of fine sugar; put the white of an egg and a small quantity of sifted sugar into a basin, and beat them to the consistence of cream cheese ; dis- solve your sugar, skim, and in a little time add the orange flowers, and then boil the sugar to petite casse; take it from the fire, and put to it half a spoonful of the beaten egg ; then with a spatula stir quickly round the sides of the pan, and the moment the syrup rises cease till it falls , then stir again till it rises a second time, when it must be poured into moulds or cases well oiled, and sift sugar over the surface. The juice of half a lemon added to the ingredients increases the whiteness of the r/dteau souffle. If, however, you wish it coloured, put a small quantity of the requisite colouring material into the white of egg whilst beating. ORANGE-FLOWER CHEESE. Throw a handful of picked orange flowers into a pint of boiling cream, cover, and let it cool; tiien, if the cream is sufficiently flavoured, strain and mix it with another pint of thick cream, stirring continually. When of the proper thickness fill your mould, and surround it with ice. ORANGE - FLOWER CLARAQUET. Having pared some golden pippins perfectly, slice the apples very thin, wash them in several waters, and then boil them slowly with a little water in a covered saucepan until the apples are entirely reduced; strain it through a damp cloth, mix with it over the fire a spoonful of orange-flower marmalade, and give them one boil together; then strain it again through a damp cloth, boil an equal quantity of sugsr to tmsc, put the liquid a little at a time to this, and let it stand a moment; then take it off', skim, and replace it on the fire. When the whole has boiled up two or three times pour it into glasses. ORANGE-FLOWER CONSERVE. Boil ^ lb. of clarified sugar to grande plume, take it from the fire, and pour it into a dessert-spoonful of orange-flower water ; stir them together well, set the mixture on the fire, and when warm pour it into shallow paper cases; let it cool, and then cut it into cakes of any form you please.