TEE TE .i [ 485 ] strong take out the muslin, squeeze it well, and mix cream with the eggs and sugar as directed for Ice Cream. TEAL, ROASTED. They should be taken up with the gravy in. Whilst doing baste them well with butter ; then, before taking up, with a little salt; pour a good gravy over them, and serve shallot sauce in a boat. TEETH. The principal requisite for the preservation of the teeth is never to retire to rest without having cleaned them, for this prevents the viscous particles of food collected during the day from corrupting them in the night. The toothache, now so common, is frequently owing to a hollow state of the teeth, but still more frequently originates in a want of cleanliness. The cleaning of the teeth, however, requires precaution. What is called the tartar of the teeth is of a corrosive nature, and should be removed with the greatest care. If there be too much tartar, so that it adheres like a cement between two teeth, its being in- cautiously removed will deprive the teeth of the tartarous cohesion, and consequently of their support: thus, from the constant contact of the tongue, lips, and food, they will be shaken and loosened. The same will happen should the tartar be allowed to eat away the gum from the root of the tooth. If in this case the basis of the tooth be injured, it will necessarily be rendered loose, the gums being no longer able to contain a tooth which is deprived of its intermediate cement. The tartar, therefore, must not be broken suddenly with iron or glass instruments, but may be gradually scraped away with a blunt or broad cut quill, or some similar substance, from which the enamel of the teeth can suffer no in- jury. Most kinds of dissolvent drops, especially those sold as specifics for whitening the teeth, are made up of vitriolic acid diluted with some distilled waters. They are of no service, but, on the contrary, remove the enamel with the tartar, and thus spoil the teeth for ever. The common tooth-brushes are liable to the game objection. To prevent the tartar from settling on the teeth they ought to be kept clean by washing them every morning and evening. Certain kinds of food and drink should likewise be men- tioned as having a tendency to produce and accumulate the tartar—such are all viscous and saline substances, as salted and smoked meat, cheese, roasted eggs, the flesh of tame and wild animals kept too long for the sake of making it more tender and palatable, truffles, and all species of mushrooms; beans, peas, chestnuts, vinegar, tart wines, and all kinds of acid fruit. An expedient equally safe and effectual for removing the tartar is to cover the teetli with a fine powder of gum tragacanth, or with soft wax, and by that means to extract the tartar at once, together with this adhesive covering. If the toothache proceeds from a hollow and carious tooth, some soft exti'act of the Peruvian bark may be placed in the cavity. If this should not remove the pain a few drops of cajeput oil upon cotton may be applied to the hollow tooth, or rubbed externally upon the painful side of the cheek. Thunberg, the Swedish traveller, introduced the use of cajeput oil into Europe, having often witnessed its powerful and almost instantaneous effects in the East Indies, where it is the last expedient of gouty and rheumatic sufferers. Though external remedies are not likely to effect a radical cure of this malady, yet in. urgent cases they may be safely resorted to, especially if applied so as not to injure the skin of the face, for they will often produce a temporary relief. If, however, the toothache pi'oceed from no local cause ; if, for instance, it be owing to an impure stomach, to catarrhal, rheumatic, hysteric, venereal, or other affections, all the specifics ever discovered cannot relieve from pain until the cause be either in part or entirely removed. The oil of savin, or juniper oil, is preferable to laudanum in its effects on a hollow tooth ; the latter is at best an uncertain remedy. To dissolve and wash away the superfluous slimy and unctuous particles which produce the tartar, fresh water is sufficient; or it may be rendered a little more acrid by the admixture of a small quantity of common salt. Acids and alkalies, so frequently employed as den- tifrices, are of too corrosive a nature; and alkalies in particular injure the gums, perhaps the teeth themselves, while acids deprive them of their enamel, and thus occasion a speedy external corruption and inevitable gangrene within. The most simple dentifrice is a crust of bread hard toasted, and reduced to a fine powder. This is fully calculated to absorb the viscid, oleaginous particles, and to remove the stony or tartarous matter. The bread, however, should not be toasted too black, as in that case it would evolve an acrid, alkaline salt, which might prove hurtful. A still better dentifrice is a moderately fine powder of the Peruvian bark, particularly of the genuine red species, which sti'engthens the gums without inflaming them. In cleaning the teeth we ought not to make use of brushes or sponges, but of the finger, which, being provided with the finest papillary vessels, is a much better and more proper