KAB [ 379 ] RAB instead of panada the proper quantity of roasted potatoes ; spread a little of this farce, about five inches long, three inches broad, and half an inch thick, upon a cover, from which it may be slipped into a saucepan; lay upon the middle of it a salpicon that the farce will cover; dip a knife in hot water, raise the farce over with it, and shape it into puddings ; butter the bottom of a saucepan, heat the cover, and slip in the puddings ; pour boiling stock over, and let them simmer without touching one another. Let them cool, dip in egg, crumb, and fry, or do them over hot cinders on a gridiron. Serve in any nice sauce, or an oyster or mush- room ragout, or glaze them after they are poached, and serve them in a rich brown butter or clear gravy sauce. RABBIT, ROASTED. A young rabbit will take thirty, and a full-grown one will tal^e forty minutes to roast before a clear fire. On laying it down baste it with butter, and dredge it slightly ■with flour. While roasting boil the liver with some parsley, and when done chop both together, putting one-half melted butter, and keeping the other for garnish. Split the head, and lay one half on each side of the dish. Serve it with the same sauce as for a hare. A large young rabbit stuffed eats very much like hare. RABBIT, SALAD OF. Take some crumb of bread, and it cut into small pieces the same as you cut bacon for larding; fry it in butter, let it be a nice colour, and then drain it. Take the rem^ains of a rabbit that has been roasted, cut the meat into slices, and arrange it in the dish for table upon the fried bread ; add two anchovies cut very small, and well washed, some capers, and some small white onions well boiled, the whole tastefully inter- mixed ; season with salt, coarse pepper, and vinegar. The seasoning is not usually added until the rabbit is placed upon the table. RABBIT SKINS. To prepare these skins so that they may be dry, flexible, and devoid of unpleasant smells, they should be treated as follows :—Take the skin as fresh as possible, and having mixed a sufficient quantity of salt and water till it will bear an egg, saturate it with alum ; put your skin into this blood warm, and let it lie and soak twenty-four hours ; then take it out, and having tacked it upon a board (the fur inwards), scrape the skin, and a thin mem- brane will come off; then, having warmed up the pickle again, put your skin into it a second time, and let it remain five hours more; after which take it out and nail it upon a board to dry (fur inwards), and then rub it with pumice-stone and whiting. Hare and other skins may be prepared in the same way. They are always in best condition for preparing in the winter. RABBIT SOUP. Cut an old rabbit into pieces, put them in a quart of water, and boil well; take out all the bones, and beat the meat in a marble mortar as for potting ; add a little salt, mace, and white pepper to your taste ; stir them into the liquor the rabbit was boiled in, with the addition of a little cream. The meat of the whole rabbit is too much for one quart: query, would it not be enough for two? RABBIT, STUFFING FOR. Suet and bread crumbs equal parts; season with sweet herbs, such as marjoram, winter savory, &c., and a large proportion of minced parsley, shallots, nutmeg or cloves, pepper, and Salt. Bind with egg- RABBITS: To Boil. Truss them short, lay them in warm water for ten minutes, then put them into plenty of cold water, and boil them half an hour. Smother them with white onion sauce, mince the liver, and lay it round the dish. RABBITS : To Broil. Take a couple of young rabbits, cut them up, and put them to steep for a few hours in a little oil, mixed with parsley, leeks, a few mushrooms, and a clove of garlic (all shred fine), salt, and pepper; roll each piece of rabbit in a rasher of bacon, and put them, with a part of the seasoning, into pieces of white paper; butter the paper inside, broil upon a gridiron over a very slow fire, and serve hot in the papers. RABBITS: To Choose. There is no affinity between the hare and the rabbit except in a general resemblance. If the latter is old, the claws will be long and rough, and gi'ey hairs will appear intermixed profusely in the fur; but if the animal is young the claws will be short and smooth, and the fur clean. The flesh, if stale, will be limber, and have a bluish cast, with a slimy appearance; but if fresh it will feel firm, and look white and dry. Rabbits, whether wild or tame, are always in season. RABBITS : To Fry. Prepare any rabbits that have been dressed, and lay them in a marinade of vinegar and sweet herbs for some hours; drain, and let them dry without wiping. Fry them in butter, and serve hot with fried parsley or crumbs. Remember they only require to be heated through, not to be cooked. RABBITS, CASSEROLE OF. Quarterthem, and lard them or not, at pleasure ; flour and fry them; then put them into an earthen pipkin, with a quart of gravy, a glass of white wine, pepper and salt, sweet herbs, and butter rolled in flour; cover the pan closely, stew half an hour, dish, and pour the sauce over the rabbits, gar- nished with Seville oranges in slices. RABBITS, FRICASSEE OF. Prepare them as in the preceding way, and fry them in