[ 522 ] VEA VEA keep veal the same directions may be followed Avhich are given for keeping beef. When the fillet is to be roasted it should be washed, well dried, the bone taken out, and the space filled with a fine stuffing, part of which should be under the flap, then formed into a round, and firmly skewered. That the fire may be clear and strong, it should be made up some time befoi-e putting down the roast, which should at first be placed at some distance from it, and be frequently and well basted with butter. When about half roasted a piece of white paper is tied over the fat; a little before serving it is removed; the meat is then sprinkled with salt, dredged with flour, and well basted to froth it. When dished finely melted butter is poured over it, with which may or may not be mixed some lemon pickle or brown gravy. It is garnished with cut lemon. Veal is expected to come to table looking delicately clean, and it is so easily discoloured that you must be careful to have clean water, a clean vessel, and constantly catch the scum as soon and as long as it rises. Send up bacon, fried sausages, or pickled pork, greens and parsley, and butter and onion sauce. Veal requires particular care to roast it brown. Let the fire be the same as for beef— a sound large fire for a sound large joint, and a brisker for a smaller; put it at some distance from the fire to soak thoroughly, and then draw it near to finish it brown. When first laid down it is to be basted : baste it again occa- sionally. Wben the veal is on the dish pour on it I lb. of melted butter: if you have a little brown gravy by you add that to the butter. With those joints that are not stuffed send up forcemeat in balls, or rolled into sausages, as garnish to the dish, or fried pork sausages. Bacon and greens are also expected with boiled veal. A fillet of veal of from 12 lbs. to 16 lbs. will require from four to five hours at a good fire. Make more stuffing and forcemeat, and put them under the lap, that there may be some left to eat cold or to season a hash; brown it, and pour good melted butter over it. Garnish with thin slices of lemon, and cakes or balls of stuffing, or duck stuffing, or fried pork sausages, curry sauce, bacon and greens, &c. A bit of the brown outside is a favourite ■with the epicure in roasts. The kidney cut out, sliced, and broiled, is a high relish, which some bons vivants are fond of. A loin is the best part of a calf, and will take about three hours' roasting. Paper the kidney fat and the bade Some cooks send it up on a toast, which is eaten with the kidney and the fat of this part, which is as delicate as any marrow. If there is more of it than you Junk there will be eaten with the veal, before you roast it cut it out: it will make an excellent suet pudding. Take care to have your fire long enough to brown the ends. Same accompani- ments as above. A shoulder requires for roasting from three hours to three hours and a half. Stuff it with the forcemeat ordered for the fillet of veal in the under side. Neck, best end, will take two hours. Same accompaniments as for fillet. The scrag part is best made into a pie or broth. Breast, from an hour and a half to two hours. Let the caul remain till it is almost done, when take it off to brown it: baste, flour, and froth it. Or, instead of roasting, boil it enough; put it in a cloth between two pewter dishes, with a weight on the upper one, and let it remain till cold ; then pare and trim it, egg and crumb it, and broil or warm it in a Dutch oven. Serve with it capers or wow-wow sauce. Breast of mutton may be dressed in the same way. VEAL: To Carve. This part, which is called the brisket, is the thickest, but it is gristly. Insert your knife about four inches from the edge of this at a, and cut through it to b, to separate the ribs thei'efrom; then ask which part is chosen. The sweetbread will be found at c. VEAL: To Choose. In a calf the fore quarters contain the shoulders, neck, and breast; the hind-quarters consist of the legs, knuckles, fillets, and loins. The head and entrails are called the pluck, and the latter consists of the heai't, liver, lights, melt, and sweetbread, of which there are two, called the throat and the windpipe sweetbread. In judging of the quality of veal observe the vein in the shoulder, for if the colour be of a bright red or bluish cast the animal has been recently killed; but if it looks greenish, yellowish, or blackish, or feels more than usually clammy and limber, it is stale. If there are upon it any greenish spots it is either already, or soon will be tainted. Should it have been wrapped up in wet cloths it will soon become musty, on which account it is always necessary to examine it by the smell. The first part that becomes tainted is the loin under the Iddney, and the flesh when stale will be soft