INK INF C 75 ] as convenient a form as any other. Emulsions are also of advantage. A most important part of the treatment is keeping the body clothed with flannel, and avoiding all exposure to cold and damp air ; and gentle perspiration is to be kept up by Dover's powder, camphor, and warm liquids. Particular care is to be directed to keeping up the strength. Wine in moderate quantity at first, and afterwards more freely, is to be allowed, and the diet is to be nourishing and easily digestible. The debility that remains after the disease is to be obviated by proper diet, good air, exercise, particularly riding on horseback, and the cold bath.—[Macaulay's Die tionary of Medicine.) INFUSIONS. By infusion is meant a pro- cess which consists in pouring water of any re- quired degree of temperature on such substances as have a loose texture, such as thin barks, leaves, flowers, seeds, &c. The following, then, are infusions, all of which require the water at the boiling heat. Camomile Tea. Camomile flowers, ^ oz. to a pint of water. Emetic while warm, and stomachic when cold. Also used with poppy heads as a fomentation, &c. Compound Infusion of Mint. Dried mint leaves, 2 drachms; boiling water enough to strain 6 ozs. When cold add loaf sugar, 2 drachms; oil of mint, 3 drops. The simple infusion of mint is made by pouring boiling water over any quantity of the leaves without any other addition. Compound Infusion of Obange-peel. Dried orange-peel, 4 ozs.; fresh lemon-peel, ^ oz.; cloves, 2 drachms; to ^ pint of boiling water. Stomachic. Dose, 2 ozs. every two hours. Infusion of Peruvian Bark. Take of the lance-leaved Peruvian bark 1 oz.; barley water, j 1 pint. Pour the water over both, and let them stand for two hours- Dose, ^ oz. to ^ pint. : Tonic. i Infusion of Quassia. A scruple of the I i wood to 1 pint of boiling water. Infusion of Rhubarb. Ehubarb, 1 drachm ; I water, i pint; 4 ozs. of which, with neutral II salts, 2 drachms to ^ oz., may be taken as a : stimulative purgative. 1 Infusion of Roses. Petals of red roses, 6 I drachms; spirit of vitriol, 3 drachms; white i sugar, Hoz.; boiling water, 2^pints; loaf sugar, 1^ oz. Mostly used as a vehicle for Epsom salts, the taste of which it covers very well. It is also gently astringent. Infusion of Senna—Senna Tea. Senna leaves, 1^ oz.; ginger root dried, 1 drachm; boiling water, 1 pint. Purgative. Dose, 4 ozs. to 6 ozs., but generally given as a vehicle for Epsom salts and other medicines. Infusion of Tamarinds with Senna. Tama- rinds, 1 oz.; senna, 2 drachms; coriander seed, i drachm ; brown sugar, 1 oz. ; boiling water, 1 pint. Laxative. Dose, from 2 ozs. to 6 ozs. Linseed Tea. Linseed, 1 oz.; liquorice root, 4 drachms; boiling water, 2 pints. Let it stand for two hours near the fire in a covered vessel, and strain. INK, INDELIBLE (for Marking Linen). Nitrate of silver, 100 grains; distilled water, 1 oz.; gum arable, 2 drachms ; sap - green, 1 scruple. Dissolve. The linen is first to be wetted with the following pounce, dried, rubbed smooth, and then written on by a clean quill or bone pen dipped in the ink. Pounce or mor- dant.—Subcarbonate of soda, ^ oz.; water, 4 ozs. INK, INDELIBLE (not requiring the Pounce). Pound 1 drachm of crystallised ni- trate of silver with 2 drachms of Rochelle salts and 3 or 4 drachms of water, and add sufficient strong ammonia to render the mixture clear; then add archil or sap-green, gum, and water to make up 6 fluid drachms. Pass a hot iron over the writing as soon as it is finished. INK STAINS: To Take out of Mahogany. If recent the stains may be removed by putting a little salt of lemons on the spot, and rubbing it off with a cloth wetted in hot water. Should the stains be of long standing touch the part with a feather dipped in a weak solution of vitriol, or a few drops of the oil of vitriol in a tea-spoonful of water, and immediately the stain disappears rub the vitriol off with a rag dipped in cold water. If not taken off directly the vitriol will leave a white mark not easily effaced. Should not the stain disappear at once the operation must be repeated. To take ink or iron stains out of marble. To remove ink stains mix some unslaked lime, very finely powdered, with strong soap lees. Make the mixture pretty thick, lay it On the marble with a painting brush, and let it remain on for eight or ten weeks; then wash off the mixture ; and, having a strong thick lather of soft soap boiled in soft water, dip a brush into the lather, and then into the powder of unslaked lime, and scour the marble well; then clean off the soap and lime, and finish with a smooth hand-brush, rubbing briskly till a beautiful polish is pro- duced. To remove iron stains take an equal quantity of fresh spirits of vitriol and lemon | juice mixed together in a bottle. Shake the mixture well, wet the spots with it, and in a few minutes rub with a piece of soft linen till they disappear. The polish may easily be restored by the use of a piece of felt, with some powder of putty or of tripoli mixed with water. To remove ink stains from white linen or calico directly drop plentifully on them, while wet, the tallow from a lighted candle, and let it remain on the linen a few days before