VIT VIR [ 544 ] gt'edients are added, as, of course, there is some- tliing good in it for every ailment. During the solemn operation the great bell of St. Mark is tolling, and the magistrates encircle the caldron iu their robes of state. VIRGINIA GRIDDLE CAKES. A quart of Indian meal, two large table-spoonsful of wheat flour, a heaped salt-spoonful of salt, a piece of fresh butter (about 2 ozs.), four eggs, and a . pint or more of milk Sift the Indian meal into a pan, mix with it the wheat flour, and add the salt. Warm the milk in a small saucepan, but do not let it come to a boil. When it begins to simmer take it off, and put the butter into it, stirring it al)out till well mixed ; then stir in the meal a little at a time, and let it cool uhile you are beating your eggs. As soon as they are beaten very light add them gradually to the mixture, stirring the whole very hard. It must be a light batter, and may require more milk. Having heated the griddle well by placing it over the fire or in the oven of a hot stove, rub it over with some fresh butter tied in a clean white rag, and pour on a la)'ge ladleful of batter. When the cake 4iR baked brown turn it with a cake turner, and bake it the other side; then take it off, and put it on a hot plate; grease the griddle again, and put on another cake, and so on till you have three or four ready to send to table for a beginning. Continue to bake and send in hot cakes as long as they are wanted. VIRGIIS'IA HOE CAKE. Pour warm water on a quart of Indian meal; stir in a spoonful of lai'd or butter, and some salt; make it stiff, and work it for ten minutes ; have a board the size of a barrel head (or the middle piece of the iiead will answer), wet the board with water, spread on the dough with your hand, and pi'op it aslant before the fire with a flat iron, and bake it slowly. When one side is nicely brown take it up and turn it, by running a thread between the cake and the board; then put it back, and let the other side brown. These cakes used to be baked in Virginia on a large iron hoe, whence they derive their name. VIRGINIA PONE. See Pone, Virginia. VIRGINIA YELLOW^ PICKLES. To two gallons of vinegar put I lb. of ginger, J lb. of black pepper, 2 ozs. of red pepper, 2 ozs. of cloves, a tea-cupful of celerj'^ seed, a pint of horseradish seed, a pint of mustard seed, a few onions or garlic, and 3 ozs. of turmeric to turn them yellow. The above ingredients should be mixed together in a jar, set in the sun by the 1st of July, and tied tip closely, with a block over each jar to keep out the rain. Put what- ever you intend to pickle in salt and water for tivo or three days; then pour boiling salt and water upon them, wash them, and drop them in the jars of vinegar. You can pickle anything in this way but walnuts. The same pickle, by adding more vinegar to it, will do for two years. If the jars are set by the fire a much less time will do to take the strength out of the spices. VITRIOL. We shall here merely warn our readers against being misled by tliis nauie, so commonly applied to very different substances. Vitriol is usually the name given by servants to sulphuric acid, one of the most corrosive of acids. It is known also as oil of viiriol and vitriolic acid. Green vitriol is a combination of iron with sulphuric acid, and used in ink-making, dyeing, &c. Blue vitriol is copper combine 1 with sulphuric acid, and is a virulent poison. White vitriol is zinc combined with sulphuric acid, and, though a poison, often used as iui emetic. VITUS'S (SAINT), DANCE. The leg and arm, generally of one side, are in constant agitation. In the attempt to walk the leg is dragged along, or turned inward or backward; and if the person afflicted tries to carry anything to his mouth he cannot accomplish it until after repeated efforts. It is at last thrown iu with a jerk. The muscles obey the will ; but when motion is attempted the fibres of others begin to act, and thus a contrary effect is pro- duced. Weeping and laughter are sometimes alternately excited. Various attempts at running and leaping also take place. The head, too, and trunk of the body, are affected with convulsive motion. The mind is more or less weakened, and there is also an impediment of speech. It generally happens from the age of ten to fourteen. The causes are such as unsuitable diet, impure air, sedentary life, and sudden frights. They are also irritating matter influencing the intestines, poisons, teething, and worms. In spite of every effort this disease is some- times of a protracted nature, continuing for several months. Oftener it sooner yields to proper remedies. Unless it passes into some other disease—such, for instance, as epilepsy—• it is seldom attended with danger. Recourse must be had to suitable articles of nutritious diet, and to the enlivening influence of the other ordinary acting objects. Corroborants, volatiles, and chalybeates will each occasionally be required. Cold bathing also produces a good effect. Bark in large doses, by increasing the tone of the nervous and muscular system, with the assist- ance of cold bathing, has often effected a cure. The metallic tonics recommended in Epilepsy are more likely to prove beneficial than the vegetable ones, among which the bark may be enumerated. During the use of these medicines