WAS WAT [ 552 ] expense may, iu some degree, be diminisTied by stipulating that the smaller articles, such as pocket-hancllcerchiefs, neckcloths, and the like, be charged by the dozen, instead of each article being separately charged. Some good managers get their washing done by contract, and this, when you can insui'e its being well done, is a pleasant plan, because you ascertain the exact sum your washing will cost you during the year. But it often happens that the laundress does not discharge very conscien- tiously her part of the contract, but sends home the linen miserably got up and badly aired. When this happens you cannot consider such washing as cheaply performed. WASHING LIQUOR. Pour four quarts of boiling water upon 1 lb. of pearlash, and two quarts of cold water upon | lb. of unslaked lime ; let them stand till clear, then mix, bottle off, and cork well. Half a pint of the liquor is enough to put in eight gallons of water to wash with. Do not use it either to prints, unless fast colours, or to flannels: it will not injure the strength of cloth in the least. WASP, STING OF. See Bee, Sting of. WASSAIL CUP. Beat eight cloves in three pints of cream; beat up six yolks of eggs with a little cold cream, and mix them in; warm a bottle of tent, malmsey, or other fine-flavoured wine; put into a deep dish cakes strewed over ■with sugar, pour in the wine, and then the cream ; strew over ginger, cinnamon, and sugar, and when cool stick it thickly over with sliced almonds. Fine ale and milk may be used, with two additional yolks of eggs, or a little rice flour boiled in milk, which makes it a light supper dish. WATER. [See FrLTER.) Pure water is transparent, and without either colour, taste, or smell. In consequence of the facility of ob- taining it pure, it is assumed as a standard, to ■which the relative weights of all other bodies may be compared, its specific gravity being called 1000. At the temperature of 40° it is at its greatest density; and at that temperature an English cubic foot weighs 437102-4946 grains, or 999 0914161 ozs. avoirdupois, or 1000 ozs. nearly ; a cubic inch, 252 953 grains. A pint of pure water, wine measure, weighs, or is assumed to weigh, 16 ozs. avoirdupois. At the temperature of 32° water congeals into ice, which, if slowl}' formed, produces needles crossing each other at angles of 60° and 120°. The specific gravity of ice is 0 94 : ice, of course, always floats on water. If water be exposed to heat in open vessels, it boils, or is converted into steam, at 212°, the barometer being at thirty inches; but the boiling of water varies considerably with the pressure. When the barometer is at twenty-eight inches it will boil at a lower temperature tlian when at thirty one. At the top of Mont Blanc it boiled, ac- cording to Saussure, at 187°; so that the heights of mountains, and even of buildings, may be calculated by reference to the temperature at which water boils upon their summits. In the vacuum of an air-pump water boils at a tem- perature considerably below its ordinary boiling point. The specific gravity of air being considered as 1, that of steam is 0-6235. At mean pres- sure, and at the temperature of 212°, the bulk of steam is 1700 times greater than that of water: hence the great power and advantages of steam. Water which has been exposed to the atmo- sphere always contains a portion of air, as may be proved by boiling it, or by exposing it under the exhausted receiver of an air-pump. To separate the air, the water must be boiled for about two hours. It absorbs oxygen gas in preference to atmospheric air. Although it is usually considered necessary that water should be heated to the boiling point (212°) to be converted into steam, for mechanical and other purposes more especially, yet water is continually converted into vapour, either visible or invisible, at almost every temperature above the freezing point, depending upon the state and temperature of the atmosphere ; and it is well known that, in the driest weather, atmo- spheric air has always a considerable portion of water mixed with it: this is proved by exposing dry subcarbonate of potash to its influence, when in a very short time it becomes moist. Native water is seldom, if ever, found per- fectly pure. The waters which flow within or upon the surface of the earth contain various earthy, saline, metallic, vegetable, or animal particles, according to the substances over or through which they pass. Rain and snow waters are much purer than these, although they also contain whatever floats in the air, or has been exhaled along with the watei'y vapours. The purity of water may be known by the following marks or pi'operlies:—Pure water is lighter than water that is not pure ; pure water is more fluid than water that is not pure; it has no colour, smell, or taste; it wets more easily than the waters containing earthy and metallic salts, called hard waters, and feels softer when touched ; soap, or a solution of soap in alcohol, mixes easily and perfectly with it; it is not rendered turbid by adding to it a solution of gold in aqua regia, or a solution of silver, or of lead, or of mercury, in nitric acid, or a solu- tion of acetate of lead in water. A vaiiety of bodies are to be found in most spring water; but that which is most common is carbonate of lime, -which attaches itself