[ 101 ] KID KID make a sauce with a glass of white wiue, a tolerable quantity of cullis, aud reduce it to the consistence of a good sauce; then squeeze a Seville orange into it, and serve your pie hot. KIDNEY, BEEF (Sheed). Take a kid- ney, and-braise it till very tender; shred it finely, serve it upon stewed cucumbers, or any other green you like better. It should be rather highly seasoned. KIDNEY DUMPLINGS. Make your dumplings in the usual way, and put in each a mutton kidney well washed, and seasoned with pepper and salt; boil them tied in a cloth, and serve them very hot. KIDNEY OMELET. Take a fine kidney from a cold roasted loin of veal, mince and soak it well in some cream, break seven or eight eggs on it, and season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; beat the whole with a whisk, and fry your omelet, taking care to keep it pretty thick. KIDNEY PASTY. Roast a loin of veal, and when it is almost done take the kidney, the fat, and some of the meat, and mince it small, with the marrow of half a dozen cold veal marrow bones; season with marjoram, thyme, and winter savory cut small or pounded, a quarter of a pint of rose water, the yolks of six eggs, a little nutmeg sliced, ^ lb. of sugar, and ^ lb. of cur- rants. Mix all well together, make it up into small pasties with puff paste, and fry them in butter. KIDNEY PUDDING. Take a beef kidney, split it, soak it, and season it with pepper and salt; make a paste, put in the kidney, cover with the paste, and punch round the edge. It will take some time boiling. KIDNEY, VEAL. Chop the kidney and some of the fat; season with pepper and salt, and make it with egg and bread crumbs into balls, which fry in lard or butter ; drain upon a sieve, and serve with fried parsley. KIDNEYS. Cut them through the long way, score them, and sprinkle them over with a very little pepper and salt. In order to broil all over alike, and to keep them from curling on i the gridiron, run a wire skewer right through them. They must be broiled over a clear fire, being careful to turn them frequently till they are done. They will take about ten or twelve minutes to broil, provided they are done over a brisk fire; or if you choose you may fry them in butter, and make gravy for them in the pan by putting in a tea-spoonful of flour. As soon as it looks brown put in a sufficient quantity of water as will make gravy. They -will take five minutes longer frying than broiling. Garnish with fried parsley. You may improve them, if you think proper, by chopping a few parsley leaves very finely, mixing them with a piece of fresh butter, a little pepper and salt, and then putting some of this mixture over each kidney. KIDNEYS, BEEF (A. la Bourgeoise). Take some kidneys, cut them into thin slices, and broil them, with a piece of butter, some salt, pepper, parsley, green onions, and a clove of garlic. The whole should be very fine. When they are sufficiently done take them off the fire. They should not broil too long, or they will become tough. Add when you serve them a few drops of vinegar and a little cullis. Beef kidneys may likewise be served a la braise, A^ith shallot sauce or sauce piquante. KIDNEYS, BEEF (au Saute). Cut the kidneys into pieces, and toss them in a pan with a piece of butter, some chopped parsley, shallots, mushrooms, salt, pepper, and a little grated nut- meg; then thicken with a pinch of flour, and moisten with half a glass of white wine and two spoonsful of Spanish sauce ; take it ofl" the fire before it boils, aud add a piece of butter and the juice of a lemon. Serve the kidneys hot, and garnish with fried bread. KIDNEYS, BEEF (with Wine Sauce). Cut the kidneys into thin slices, sprinkle them with flour, and fry them in butter, with salt, pepper, parsley, and green onions shred finely. When fried moisten thern with white wine, add a little stock, and serve. KIDNEYS. INFLAMMATION OF THE (Nephritis). The symptoms of this complaint are fever; pain in the region of the kidney, extending downwards; numbness of the leg aud thigh of the affected side, and retraction of the testicle; nausea and vomiting; high-coloured, sometimes mucous, or bloody urine; frequent desire to make water, (fcc. It terminates in resolution, abscess, or in gangrene, known by the ordinary symptoms that accompany these terminations in other parts. The common causes of inflammation of the kidneys are acrid diuretics, calculi or stones in the kidneys, external injury, long-continued and violent exercise on horseback, collections of hardened stools in the bowels (the colon), retrocedent or tonic gout, violent exertions, &c. The treatment here is the same as in other inflammations, viz., general and local bleeding, the latter by the use of cupping-glasses,- or by the application of a quantity of leeches to the region of the kidneys ; oleaginous purgatives of castor oil, manna, or oil of almonds, employed as frequently as required, e.g.:—Take castor oil, 1 oz. ; mucilage of gum arable and fennel water, of each ^ oz.; tincture of jalap, 1 drachm. Mix for a draught. Emollient and opiate clysters; mild diaphoretics, especially frequent and copious draughts of mucilaginous and diluent drinks, as barley water, decoction of majfsh-inallows, whey, and linseed tea.