LAM [ 113 ] LAM pan, with a slice of ham, a bunch of parsley, and green onions; stew them gently over a slow fire, and reduce them with two spoonsful of Espagnole and a little sugar. If you wish this dish white use sauce tournee for the peas instead of Espagnole. LAMB, BREAST OF (Rolled in a Ra- gout). Take a breast of lamb that is cut rather broad, take out the bones, spread it well with veal forcemeat, roll it up, tying it well with packthread, and let it stew gently in some good braise. When well stewed take it out, put it in a moderate oven, and glaze it two or three times; then have a good ragout ready, pour it into a dish, and lay the lamb upon it. LAMB CHOPS. Cut a neck or loin of lamb into chops, rub them over with the beaten yolk of an egg, dip them into grated bread, mixed with plenty of chopped parsley, and sea- son with lemon-peel, pepper, and salt. Fry them a light brown in good dripping, make a sauce with the trimmings, and thicken it with butter rolled in flour; add a little lemon pickle and mushroom catsup, and garnish with fried pars- ley. They may be served with or without the gravy. LAMB CHOPS, BROILED. Cut a lorn or best end of the neck into chops, flatten them, and cut off the fat and skin; rub the gridiron v/ith a little fat, broil them on a clear fire, turn them with steak tongs till quite done, and serve them hot. LAMB CHOPS EN CASSEROLE. lake a loin of lamb, cut it into chops, rub them over with yolk of egg on both sides, and strew them over with bread crumbs, mace, cloves, pepper, and salt mixed; fiy them of a light brown, and place them on a dish in the form of a crown. Make a sauce of sweet herbs and parsley chopped finely, and stewed in a little thick gravy: pour this sauce into the middle of the dish. Serve garnished with fried parsley. LAMB CROQUETTES. Take a cold roasted leg or any other part of lamb, cut off the meat, clear away all the skin and sinews, and mince it'; mince also a little lamb fat or calf's udder, and some mushrooms ready dressed; mix all these together, and season them with nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Put half a dozen ladlesful of veloute and four of jelly into a saucepan, reduce to rather less than half, and add the yolks of three eggs, stirring constantly. When the sauce has thickened put in an ounce of butter, and stir tiU it is dissolved. Strain this sauce over the meat, stirring as before; then let it stand. When cold stir it once more, and then with a dessert spoon lay it on a table in little heaps. When all the meat is thus disposed take up each heap in your hand, form it into whatever shape you please (either round, oval, or pear-shaped. &c.), VOL. II. and roll them all in bread crumbs. Beat up three yolks and two whole eggs with a little salt and pepper, dip the croquettes into this, and bread them a second time. Take care that they are well covered, fry them in a hot pan, and when done drain and place them in a pyramid on your dish, with fried parsley over them. Make a sauce as follows :—Cut some mushrooms into dice, and put them into a saucepan with 1 oz. of butter; give them a few turns over the fire, and then add a few scallions shred small. When they have had a turn or two put in a spoonful of flour, a ladleful of stock, and a bay leaf; re- duce the sauce, then take out the bay leaf, put in the yolks of four eggs and another ounce of butter, stir the whole till of the proper consistence, and then pour it over the croquettes. A little shred parslev may be added if you like. LAMB CUTLETS IN ASPIC. Take six- teen lamb cutlets, and lard them with moderate- sized lardons of calf's udder, truffles, and tongue a Vecarlate. Line a saucepan with slices of bacon, lay your cutlets on them, cover them with bacon, moisten with skimmings of consomme, and add a carrot, two onions stuck with cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Braise them, and when done put them between two dishes; let them cool, and then trim them so that the whole of the lardons may be seen. Have ready an aspic mould in which some of the jelly is set; lay the cutlets and a piece of tongue a Vecarlate alternately on it en couronne, and put two or three spoonsful of jelly on it carefully, so as not to displace the cutlets. When you find the jelly is set fill the mould, set it on ice, turn the aspic out only the minute before it goes to table, and pour it into the well or hollow part of cold blanquette of lamb, with some cold truffles sliced. LAMB CUTLETS EN CHEMISES. Having cut and trimmed your cutlets, cover them with a farce composed of fat livers, breasts of fowl or game, and streaked bacon, all chopped very small, and mixed with the crumb of bread soaked in cream. Season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Take some thin slices of bacon; spread the farce on them, lay a cutlet on each of the slices, roll them up and tie them, bread them carefully, and roast them before a moderate fire, basting them with their own fat. LAMB CUTLETS A LA CONSTANCE. Cut and trim eighteen cutlets, season them with pepper only, and put them into a tossing- pan, with a piece of glaze about the size of an egg, a ladleful of Espagnole, and two ladlesful of consomme. Half an hour before they are sent to table set the cutlets over a brisk fire, and move them about to prevent them sticking. When the liquor is reduced to a jelly take out the cutlets, and lay them on a dish en couronne, taking care I