193 ] LAR LAN been of a more extensive character, embracing a larger number of sources of illumination. As- suming a given intensity of gas light as a standard, he experimented on ten varieties of candles, and found their relative cheapness, in producing the given degree of light, to rank as follows :—Tallow with single wick, cocoa, com- posite, palm, tallow with double wicks, wax, diaphane, margarine, spermaceti, and compo- sition. In another table, comparing gas, oil, and candles together, he assumed an Argand gas flame as a standard of intensity and price, and gives the following arrangement in respect to the ratios of relative cheapness, the intensity of light being uniform:—. Argand gas flame . . 1-00 Solar lamp . 2-00 Naphtha . . 2-00 Solar oil in Argand lamp . 3-98 Whale oil . . 5-00 Sperm oil . . 8-00 Tallow candle (two wicks) . 12-70 Cocoa candle . . 13-10 Tallow candle (one wick). . 13-50 Composite . 14-50 Palm . 18-90 Wax .... . 25-90 Diaphane . . 27-10 Margarine . 28-40 Spermaceti . . 29-20 Composition . . 29-20 According to this table composition candles are nearly thirty times as costly as gas for an equal intensity of light. LANCASTER DROP. See Black Drop. LANTERNS are usually made of glass, horn, or other transparent matter, for the trans- mission of light; but if they were covered ex ternally with thin wirework many accidents might be prevented in stables and barns, as the lanterns might thus be rendered less liable to injury from external accidents, while the com- munication of light -would not be materially impeded. LAPLANDS. Beat separately the whites and yolks of five eggs, add one pint of rich cream and one pint of flour, or perhaps a little more, enough to make it of the consistence of pound cake. Put it in small round tins, and bake in a quick oven. LAPWINGS. They should be roasted and served in the same manner as wild ducks. The lapwing, which is nearly the size of the pigeon, is much esteemed for its delicacy of flavour. LARCH {Pinus larix). The most proper season for felling the larch is in the month of July, because the liquid which oozes from the tree at that time is speedily changed into a gummy-resinous matter, so that the wood is not drained so much as at other seasons, but hardens, and may thus be sooner employed. Larch is of singular utility for various pur- poses in which durability and strength are re- quired. Hence it is peculiarly adapted for ship-masts and the building of vessels, or for strengthening the wooden framework of bridges; for it is capable of sustaining a much greater weight than oak itself, and almost petrifies under water. It also resists the intemperature of our climate, and is of excellent service for gates, pales, railway sleepers, and other works which are exposed to all the vicissitudes of the weather. Larch timber is equally durable ■^\'ithin doors ; and houses constructed with it have a whitish cast for the first two or three years, after which the outside becomes black, while all the joints and crevices are firmly closed with the resin extracted from the pores of the wood by the heat of the sun, and which, being hardened by the air, forms a kind of bright varnish that has an elegant appearance. Nor is there any wood which affords such durable pipe-staves for casks, while the flavour of the wine is at the same time preserved and improved. Its trunk, when perforated and tapped between the months of March and September, yields the purest Venetian turpentine, which is of considerable use in medicine. Its large branches produce small, sweetish grains resembling sugar, which are known under the name of manna, from their possessing similar purgative properties with that drug. Beside the manifold uses to which this in- estimable tree is subservient, we shall mention a few additional facts, chiefly extracted from foreign writers, with the confident hope of pro- moting its more general culture. From the inner rind or bark of the larch the Russians manufacture fine white gloves, not inferior to those made of the most delicate chamois, while they are stronger, cooler, and more pleasant for wearing in the summer. A gummy matter, partaking of the properties of animal glue and vegetable mucilage, is obtained by a curious process from the sap of this tree, and which greatly resembles the gum arable or Senegal, though it is of a brown colour: it is known in Russia by the name of Orenberg gum. Pallas informs us that the untutored natives cut a hole at one side of the trunk near its root, and then burn the wood to the very pith by applying combustible materials. In consequence of the heat thus generated the circulating medullary juice descends in drops, which concrete into a transparent gum, forming various fanciful con- figurations. In countries where the larch tree abounds, its firm and compact wood (a cubic foot of which, or one hundred and forty-four solid inches, weighs forty-one pounds, and exceeds that of the fir in the proportion of eight to seven), affords a very superior charcoal. This,