I 429 ] SEL SEN d.O not commonly cause griping pains, flatu- lency, and weakness, like the drastic purges exliibited in a solid form, or even the milder aperients, such as manna, Cassia fistula, or senna; but they gently stimulate the stomach and bowels to expel their morbid contents, and, assisted by their bitterness, tend to restore the tone of these organs, and with it the appetite and digestive powers. Thus they are particularly efficacious in disorders arising from a torpid action of the liver, in a bilious state of the stomach, in habitual costiveness, in hypochon- driacal complaints, in sick headache with bilious vomiting, in some kinds of bilious purging, in exudations and watery humours of the skin, in scrofulous tumours, inflammations of the eyes and eyelids, in ulcers and discharges of the legs, in piles, fistulas, intestinal worms, and in that cachexy of females, attended with costiveness and suppression of the menses, whereby general debility, febrile heat, irritation, loss of appetite, and wasting of the body are induced. In short, as a loaded and constipated state of the alimentary canal is a common cause of general bad health, it is obvious that these waters may be of infinite service. The dose is from half a pint to two pints taken in divided portions, with a sufficient interval interposed, to prevent offend- ing the stomach by the mere bulk of the liquid. Exercise should daily be taken, and the diet should consist principally of soups, and not of solid food. Fermented and spirituous liquors should be avoided. The habits of life should be regular. SELTZER WATER. This water is im- ported to this country in stone bottles, closely corked and sealed, from the spring of Seltzer, in the village of Neider-Seltzer, situated in a fine woody country, about ten miles from Frank- fort. This water, when fresh or well preserved, is perfectly clear and transparent, and sparkles much on being poured into a glass. To the taste it is pungent, gently saline, and alkaline ; but this pungency it loses on exposure to the air, from the escape of the carbonic acid gas. Its contents given by Bergmann, and brought to the proportion of an English wine pint, are— Grains. Carbonate of lime, about . . 3 Carbonate of magnesia . . . 5 Carbonate of soda . . ,4 Chloride of sodium (common salt) . 17-5 29-5 The quantity of gas evolved is extremely copious, being 60 cubic inches to the 100 of water, or upwards of 17 cubic inches to the wine pint. It is almost entirely pure carbonic acid gas. This quantity, being more than is sufficient to saturate the alkali and earths, gives to the water, therefore, its acidulous taste and freshness. The operation of this water in moderate doses is to raise the spirits, improve the appetite, and increase the urinary discharge. It is particularly serviceable in alleviating some of the symptoms indicating a morbid condition of the lungs, as in checking the profuse night sweats and constant cough, and in diminishing the fetid purulent expectoration and frequent flushings attendant on slow hectic fever. From its excellent property of allaying irritation, it forms a useful remedy in those eruptions of the skin dependent on a disordered state of the stomach, and in various derangements of that organ, and of those viscera connected with it, as indigestion, acidity, heartburn, bilious vomiting, spasmodic pains in the bowels, and bloody or highly offensive stools. It has been found bene- ficial in gonorrhoea, leucon'hoea, hypochondriacal complaints, and particularly in painful affections of the kidneys and bladder, marked by purulent discharge and difficult micturition. It mixes well with milk, and will not soon coagulate it. This mixture is strongly recommended by the illustrious Hoffmann in cases of hectic fever with expectoration. The usual dose of Seltzer water is from half a pint to a pint, and, the only pre- caution necessary during its use is to preserve a regular state of the bowels. SEMOLINO. Wheat flour granulated by friction while moist, and dried, to deprive it of its solubility in hot water. This is very similar to the cuscusson of Africa. SENNA. The most esteemed Alexandrian senna {sene du Levant, de Seyde, de la palte) belongs to the Cassia lanceolata. Leaves alternate. Leafits oblong, sharp-pointed at the ends, about a quarter of an inch broad, and not a full inch in length, unequally divided by the middle rib, without prominent lateral fibres, of a lively yellowish-green colour, a faint, not very disagreeable smell, and a subacrid, bitterish, nauseous taste. This senna is found some leagues above Syene, in a valley called Bicharie, in Abyssinia and Sennaar. A second species belongs to the Cassia senna [C. obovata). Leaves broader than the pre- ceding, rounded, of a pale green colour; taste sweetish, and without smell. It is found in Upper Egypt, and is less purgative than the former. These two species are mixed in commerce,, and also with a third leaf, which is not a senna, but a species of Apocynum, designated by MM. Rouillure and Delisle under the name of Cynanclium argel, or Cynanchum oleifolium. The leaves of the Cynanchumf are regular at the base, whereas the folioles of the sennas are always oblique.