WOR [ 5ro ] woo bacon and veal, and moisten -with half a glass of white wine; close the pan as tiglitly as possible, and braise them for five houi's over a slow fire. Put the woodcocks into the tureen, and strain the liquor over them. WOOL. See Flannel and Fue. WORMS. See Anthelmintics and Chings' Worm Lozenges. Thuead, or Maw-worms [Ascarides). The most certain sign of the thread-worm is an itching of the fundament and lower intestine, which is often distressing and almost intolerable. The disturbance produced here is communicated by the nerves to all parts of the body, occasioning a crowd of disorders of the bowels, the stomach, and the head, as enumerated in the following description :— The evils arising from worms are headaches, giddiness, loss of activity, frightful dreams, sleep broken off by terror and screaming, con- vulsions, feverishness, thirst, sickly paleness of the countenance, bad taste in the mouth, offen- sive breath, cough, oppressed breatliing, itching of the nostrils, pains in the stomach, sickness, nausea, squeamishness, voracious appetite, wast- ing of the flesh, frequent desire to go to stool, and itching of the fundament, particularly towards night. We may add to these symptoms the grind- ing of the teeth in sleep, the flushing of one cheek while the other is pale, nervous trembling of the lips, a lead colour under the eyes, redness of the nosti-ils, and a propensity to pick them, pimples or scabby eruptions about the mouth and face, and particularly oppressive weakness of the legs and arms. AH these symptoms are seldom found in one patient; but when there is the itching of the fundament at night you may dread many of the rest, as they will certainly follow. Your first aim must be to get rid of the slime of the bowels on which the worms feed; for, if you deprive them of their food, they must inevitably die. Take 1 oz. of good quicklime, and a pint and a half of rain water; pour the water over the lime, cover it up for an hour in a pipkin, then pour off the water into a bottle, and keep it corked for use. For a child a wine-glassful is to be taken thrice a day in a cup of camomile tea; or, to make it more palatable, in beef tea or other soup. Double this dose, or more, for a grown person. An over-dose will do no harm. Or the following :—Take 4 grains of muriate of lime, and 6 grains of extract of rhubarb; mix, and divide into two pills thrice a day. The bowels, before commencing the medicine, must be evacuated by a mild purgative, and kept open during the time of taking it, if necessary, by any laxative medicine. If you continue this for a month or six weeks the worms will disappear, and tlie health and strength will be rapidly improved. It may be necessary, perhaps, to give a little Epsom salts and senna once or twice a week, though this depends upon the state of the bowels. If the itching of the fundament is very troublesome, inject in the usual way a little of the lime water mixed with beef tea, which will kill every worm it touches. Even cold water will be effectual if thus injected. Rue, tansy, worm seed, angelica, and all hitter herbs are good against worms, but only because they strengthen the bowels. All persons labouring under worms ought-to discontinue the use of vegetable food, par- ticularly that of the raw description, as it in- creases the vigour of the worms more than animal food. In Tape-woem, the fern root in powder, as prescribed by Madame Nouffer in her celebrated remedy, has been efficaciously employed when other remedies have failed. The dose for an adult, of the male fern root, is from 1 to 3 drachms, fasting in the morning: after the second dose, a purge, consisting of 5 grains of calomel and 2-5 grains of jalap, is given. Spirit of turpentine, it appears, has recently been given with very good effect in tape-worm. The dose for a delicate female will be 1 oz.; for a robust female or small man, 1^ oz.; for a robust man, 2 ozs., taken early in the morning, in milk, when purging will be speedily produced by it, &c. Cowhage, made into an electuaiy with treacle or honey, is also given in tape-worm, and in that species of it which resembles the earth- W'orm. The dose is a table-spoonful night and morning: it should be taken before food, or im- mediately afterwards, but never on an empty stomach. After three or four doses, a purge of calomel and jalap, as here recommended, should be given. The powder and filings of tin cure all kinds of worms, and may be given to all ages and descriptions of people. The filings are prefer- able to the powder, and are quite harmless : the finest should be used—from 1 scruple to -j drachm. All cathartics are anthelmintics, or worm-destroyers, and are useful if the strength will admit of them ; e.g., calomel and jalap, gamboge and jalap. A clyster, consisting of 10 grains of cowhage to 6 ozs. of thin gruel, is recommended to be thrown up, to dislodge the maw-worms ; or 1 drachm of the extract of aloes dissolved in 10 ozs. of gruel. A few grains of jalap and calomel taken overnight, and an infusion of senna tea the next morning, will also bring them away. Harrowgate water is a safe and powerful re-