SWE [ ^70 ] SWE over a slow fire. When done drain off tlie fat, and place the scallops in small paper cases which have heen fried in olive oil; cover them with plenty of finely chopped herhs, and strew over them fried bread crumbs ; lay the paper cases for a moment in the oven, and before serving pour into each a little rich gravy and lemon juice. SWEETBREADS must always be blanched before they are coolied, to disgorge and harden them to bear larding. When they are cool lard them for braising or roasting with bacon, parsley, ham, truffles, morels, and mushroom nails. The French line the stewpans entirely: they may be very well done with care by only lining the bottom. Put in carrots, onions, and parsley; lay the sweetbreads over, and add a little stock. If cooked in an earthen vessel squeeze lemon juice over them, which will malce them very white; cover with slices of bacon and double buttered paper, cover closely, and set it upon a hot hearth, with fire over sufficient to give a fine colour: they will take forty minutes. Lay each sweetbread upon a slice of white fried bread, pouring over them mushroom sauce. Glaze or not. SWEETBREADS : To Boil. Parboil them, rub them with butter, broil them over a slow fire, turn them frequently, and baste them now and then by putting them upon a plate, kept warm by the fire with butter in it. SWEETBREADS : To Ragout. Rub them with yoll-t; of egg, strew over them some bread crumbs, parsley, thyme, sweet marjoram shred small, pepper, and salt. Make a roll of force- meat resembling a sweetbread, put it into a veal caul, and roast the whole in a Dutch oven ; then take brown gravy, lemon pickle, mush- room catsup, and the end of a lemon. Boil this mixture, and when the sweetbreads are done lay them in a dish, Avith forcemeat in the mid- dle, and gravy round all. Take out the lemon when the gravy is poured into the dish. SWEETBREADS : To Roast. Scald them in water and milk, and when half done take them out and wipe them dry; rub them over with yolk of egg, roll them in grated crumbs, and roast them in a Dutch oven till they are nicely browned. Serve up with fried bread crumbs, and melted butter in a tureen. SWEETBREADS A LA DAUPHINE. If for a round dish take four large sweetbreads; if for a long dish three will suffice. Pare off the fat and sinews, blanch them in warm water, parboil them, and when cold lard them. Rub a stevvpan with fresh butter, put into it a few sliced carrots and onions, and then a layer of slices of fat bacon ; place the sweet- bieads upon the bacon, sprinkle a little salt over them, and stew them with a great deal of fire on the top. They will require to stew for thi-ee quarters of an hour; then drain and put them into a pan with some glaze, and the bacon underneath. Leave them in the glaze till dinner time. SWEETBREADS, FRICASSEED. Scald and cut them in slices; beat up the yolk of an egg, and put to it some pepper, salt, and nutmeg; dip into this mixture the sweetbreads, and fry them of a delicate brown. Thicken some good gravy with flour, boil it well, and add thereto catsup or mushroom powder, lemon juice, and Cayenne pepper; stew the sweetbreads in this about five minutes, put the whole into a dish, and serve it up. Garnish with lemon. To do them white, thicken some veal gravy with butter rolled in flour, a little cream, grated lemon-peel and nutmeg, white pepper, salt, and mushroom powder. After stewing about ten minutes put in the sweetbreads, shake the pan, and let them simmer ; squeeze in some lemon juice, pour the whole into a dish, and serve it up. SWEETBREADS FULL DRESSED. Parboil them, let them get cold, and then cut them in pieces about three quarters of an inch thick ; dip them in the yolk of an egg, lemon- peel, and sweet herbs ; put some clean dripping into a frying-pan, and when it boils put in the sweetbreads, and fry them a fine brown. For garnish, crisp parsley ; and for sauce, mushroom catsup and melted butter, or anchovy sauce, or serve with bacon or ham. SWEETMEAT BISCUITS. Pound seme candied lemon-peel in a mortar, with orange flowers crisped ; add two spoonsful of apricot marmalade, 3 ozs. of lump sugar, and the yolks of four eggs ; mix these thoroughly, and rub the whole through a sieve with a spoon; then add the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth, and put the biscuits in an oblong form on white paper, with sugar over them, and bake them in a moderate oven. The sweetmeat may be varied at pleasure. SWEETMEAT CAKES. Make some puff' paste into two cakes of an equal size ; lay on any sort of sweetmeat, but leave round the edges about one breadth of a finger vacant, wetted with Avater ; then cover this with the other cake, and join them well. After shaping as many as you like brush them with the yolk of an egg, and put them into the oven. When done pass a brush dipped in butter over each, and scatter sugared caraways or comfits upon them. They may also be iced, or glazed with powdered loaf sugar. SWEETMEAT FRITTERS. Cut small any sort of candied fruit, and heat it with some good fresh butter, some good milk, and a little grated lemon-peel. When quite hot stir in enough flour to make it into a stiff paste, take