PER [ 318 ] All the depressing passions and emotions are a powerful check to insensible perspiration ; while, on the contrary, those of an exhilarating nature may promote and increase it to such a degree as sometimes to prove the predisposing, though distant cause of consumptions. Moderate daily exercise is eminently calculated to support this function, and to strengthen the whole body. Cleanliness produces a similar effect, for some impurities continually settle on the surface of the body; and these, if not removed in time, clog the pores, and are so detrimental to health that they may occasion many obstinate dis- tempers which might be easily prevented, or at least checked in their progress, by a proper and constant attention to the skin. Too violent a perspiration indicates great debility of the body, or a laxity of the cutaneous vessels, which may frequently be removed by cold bathing or washing. When persons are troubled with unusual night sweats they may receive benefit, if it be not a symptom of hectic fever, by taking, immediately before going to bed, 2 or 3 drachms of cream of tartar in either beer or water. But if this simple remedy, after repeated trials, should prove ineffectual, a pro- fessional man ought to be consulted, as long- continued night sweats may in the end produce great weakness, and even consumption. In most of the common colds the popular stimulant remedies, such as heating liquors, and particularly sudorifics, are ill calculated to relieve the complaint. If the patient at the same time be troubled with pain in the bowels, headache, a foul tongue, &c., a gentle laxative will be of greater service than the diaphoretics. But if the stomach be peculiarly affected, if the tongue be clean and the appetite good, two or three cups of warm diluent drink, a tepid bath for the legs, a moderately warm room and dress, gentle exercise, and friction of the skin with warm cloths, are the most proper and generally effectual means of relief. As the retention of useless and superfluous matter is hurtful, it is not less detrimental to health if substances not prepared for evacuation are ejected from the body. Of this kind are bleedings from the nose, the mouth, and the vessels of the anus. Though these are not natural evacuations, yet they may occasionally be beneficial, as nature sometimes makes an effort to expel noxious matter in an unusual manner. But these parts or fluids ejected as pernicious, strictly speaking, ought not to exist in the body ; and though the evacuation of them be beneficial, it is a symptom of disease. If, therefore, such preternatural discharges take place too violently or frequently, they ought to be checked with judgment and circumspection ; and we should endeavour to lead, but not to force, nature to a more salutary canal than that she has adopted, either by accident or wanton compulsion. PERUVIAN BALSAM. See Balsam of Peru. PERUVIAN BARK. See Barks. PETITS PATfiS. Roll out about 1 lb. of puff paste to a proper thickness, which cut into pieces with a plain round paste cutter two inches in diameter. Place half the number of pieces on a baking tin slightly wetted, about half an inch apart; moisten each of them a little, and having laid a small piece of godiveau on every one, cover tliem with the remainder of the paste, press the edges together, dorez, and bake them in a brisk oven of a clear brown. PETTITOES. Boil the feet, the liver, and the heart of a sucking pig in a little water very gently; then split the feet, cut the meat very small, and simmer it with a little of the water till the feet are perfectly tender; thicken with a piece of butter, a little flour, a spoonful of cream, and a little pepper and salt; give it a boil up, pour it over a few sippets of bread, and put the feet on the mince. PEWTER. The best kind contains no lead, being composed of tin, with small propor- tions of antimony, bismuth, and copper. It was formerly much employed for dinner ser- vices, hot-water plates, &c., but is now rarely used except for innkeepers' measures, porter pots, and such-like utensils. PHEASANT: To Carve. When the skewers are removed fix your fork in the middle of the breast, and cut down in slices from a to b. Take off tbe leg of the one side b d; then separate the wing on the samo side <i h, after which re- move the leg and win^ on the opposite side, and then cut off tho slices of the breast which were before di- vided. In tailing off the wings care must he observed not to cut near the neck, as at the point y is tho bone from which the wing must be separated. Cut off the merry- thought in the direction of / j, by passing tho knife under it towards the neck. The other parts are to be divided as in a fowl. The breast, wings, and men^thought are the raopt esteemed, but the legs have the richest flavour. PHEASANT: To Roast. Take out the entrails, and singe the pheasant over tlie stove; then roll a piece of butter in pepper and salt, and put it into the inside of the bird ; truss it neatly with tlie head turned on one side, keep-