LOA LOB [ 158 3 "white tread ; put the crust in cream to soften, then fill it with raspberry jam, placing the crust on the top, which has been cut off to take out the cramb, after being soaked in the cream ; put it on the dish, and pour over it a good custard. LOAB\ SPANISH. Scoop out the crumb from half a dozen crusty rolls, and fill them with any sort of cream you may think proper; soak them in Spanish wine for a short time, sprinkle flour over, and fry them. Glaze them before they are sent to table. LOAF EN SURPRISE. Scoop out the crumb from a French roll, dry the crust a minute in the oven, glaze, and replace it to dry. When cold fill it with blanc-manger, put it on ice, and when the blanc-manger is quite firm, place it on a dish for table. This should be done either with one large French brick, or three or four rolls. LOBSTER A LA BRAISE. Pound the meat of a large lobster very fine with 2 ozs. of butter, and season it with grated nutmeg, salt, and white pepper; add a little grated bread, beat up two eggs, reserve part to put over the meat, and with the rest make it up into the form of a lobster; pound the spawn and red part, and spread this over it. Bake it a quarter of an hour, and just before serving lay over it the tail and body shell, with the small claws put underneath to resemble a lobster. LOBSTER CAKE. Pound the meat of two boiled lobsters with the lean of raw ham, some beef marrow, the yolks of four eggs, a bit of bread soaked in cream, a little mace pounded, Cayenne pepper, and salt, and colour the whole with lobster spawn; then line a mould with thin slices of fat bacon, press down the mixture upon it, cover with pieces of bacon, put on the cover of the mould, and then put it into the oven. Bake an hour and a half, and let it stand till cold; turn it out of the mould, take the fat away, and serve the cake up either modelled or plain, -with some savoury jelly round it. LOBSTER, COLLOPS OF {m the Shell). Cut the lobster in two without breaking the shell, take out all the meat, and cut it into dice; remove all the inside of the lobster, and clean the shell. Put two spoonsful of veloute, a little butter, salt, and Cayenne pepper into a saucepan, and stir over the fire. When quite hot put in the minced meat and the inside, and pour the whole together into the shell; smooth it with a knife, strew bread crumbs over, baste it with clarified butter, make it very hot, and colour it with a salamander. LOBSTER CROQUETTES. Takethemeat from the shell, chop it finely, and mix it with a little salt, pepper, and pounded mace; and one quarter part of fine bread crumbs, make them up into balls with melted butter, brush the balls with yolk of egg, dredge them with bread crumbs, and fiy them, serving with or without gravy. If dry they must be sent up with crisped parsley. LOBSTER, CURRY OF. Take the lobsters from their shells, and lay them in a pan, with a small piece of mace, four spoonsful of veal gravy, and four of cream; rub one or two tea-spoonsful of curry powder till quite smooth, one tea- spoonful of flour, and 1 oz. of butter; add these to the contents of the pan. Simmer for an hour, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and add salt. LOBSTER FRICASSEE. Break the shells, and take out the meat carefully; cut it and the red part, or coral, into pieces, adding the spawn ; thicken with flour and butter some white stock in which the shells have been boiled; season it with white pepper, mace, and salt; put in the lobster, and heat it up. Just before serving add a little lemon juice or lemon pickle. The stock may be made with the shells only, boiled in a pint of water, with some white pepper, salt, and a little mace, thickened with cream, flour, and butter. LOBSTER, ITALIAN SALAD OF. Take two lobsters, cut them into pieces, taking off the claws and tails, each of which split in two ; the spawn rub through a dry sieve to garnish the salad, made in the following manner:—Wash two or three cabbage lettuces, take away the stalks, and cut them in large shreds; slice a beet- root and a cucumber ; wash, pick, and cut into long shreds four anchovies; chop some tarragon, chervil, and two boiled eggs, the yolks and ■whites chopped separately. If you have any cauliflowers or French beans boil and put them with the other things to garnish. Having every- thing prepared, place the lettuces in the centre of the dish in a heap, and arrange the lobster and other things according to your taste, and just before you serve garnish with Italian salad sauce. LOBSTER PATTIES. Sheet your patty pans with puff paste, and put a small piece of crumb of bread into each ; then cover them with more paste, tiim round the pans, wash the tops of the paste with egg, and bake them of a light colour. When they are to be served take out_ the bread, and fill with lobster chopped; add to them a little strong consomme of veal, a small quantity of flour, lemon juice, Cayenne pepper, lemon-peel, a shallot chopped fine, an anchovy rubbed through a sieve, and mixed over the fire for five minutes. The lobsters should be half boiled before they are chopped for the patties. LOBSTER PIE (1). Boil the lobsters, and cut the meat from the tails into four bits; take