LAM LAM [ 122 ] forests, camphine has been long in use in the United States for lighting shops and public buildings, and it seems to have been from that country that the practice was borrowed and in- troduced into England. When the import duty on turpentine was lowered some few years ago, the price became reduced su^iciently to direct the attention of lamp-makers to the prac- ticability of using camphine as a substitute for oil. Many cSfferent forms of lamp have resulted from these inquiries ; and different processes have also been adopted for freeing the tur- pentine from a small quantity of oxygen which it contains. Young's Vesta lamp is one of those varieties In the specification of the patent it was stated that the lamp is constructed for burning rec- tified spirits of turpentine, or camphine; that, on account of the inflammability of this liquid, provision is made for keeping cool the reservoir where it is deposited; that no tube or metal conductor of any description is allowed to pass into or through the liquid from the burning part of the lamp; that a non-conductor of heat is placed between the burner and the liquid ; that the cotton wick hangs down from the burner into the spirit, so as to supply spirit to the flame by capillary attraction, without the intervention of any metallic or conducting sub- stance ; that the admission of air to the interior of the wick is managed without the necessity of passing an air-tube through the liquid. All these features and a few others are rendered necessary in the camphine or spirit lamps, on account of the extreme inflammability of the liquid; an inflammability such that the arrange- ments for an oil lamp would not be available for a camphine lamp without much danger. Whether these camphine lamps receive the name of Vesta, or Ge^n, or Victoria, or Paragon, or Imperial, or any other of the many which have been applied to them, they all present in common a reservoir, generally of glass, placed between the supporting pillar and the burner; the spirit is contained in this reservoir, and a cotton wick is seen to dip down into it. The chief points in whicli the several varieties of the lamp differ are in the arrangements for admit- ting air to the flame. Of one of these lamps, the Vesta, Dr. Ur^ states that, if "burning with its utmost bril liancy, without smoke, it emits a light equal to very nearly twelve wax or sperm candles of three or four to the pound ; and in so doing it consumes exactly one imperial pint of spirits of turpentine (valufe sixpence) in ten hours; hence the cost per hour for a light equal to ten such caudles is one halfpenny." Since that state- ment was written tlie demand for camphine has raised its price, and the relative advantages in its favour are therefore smaller; but its till remains much cheaper than any form of candle or of oil lamp, in relation to the quantity of light yielded. All lamp oils contain some oxygen, which neutralises a part of the hydro- gen and carbon, and also some oxide or other substance which damps the brilliancy of the flame; whereas rectified camphine, being com- posed almost wholly of hydrogen and carbou, contains nothing but what is susceptible of com- bustion. Whether the lamp be so constructed as to admit of this perfect combustion, and also so as to avoid danger, are questions for the manufactm'er ; but in a scientific point of view camphine seems better fitted for combustion than oil. It is not alone from turpentine that the spirit may be procured ; for tar and naj^htha also, if subjected to careful distillation and rec- tification, will yield a spirit or camphine differ- ing but little from that yielded by tui-pentine. A few words may here be added concerning two important features connected with lamps, viz., the comparative illuminating powers of different kinds, and the means of carrying of ■ the products of combustion. Pectet, Dr. Ure, and Dr. Fyfe have all in- stituted experiments bearing on the former of these two questions. Pectet experimented on caudles only. He determined what would be the value of different kinds of candle, sufficient to produce a given intensity of light, as deter- mined by Carcel's lamp as a standard. They rank in the following order, the first being the cheapest:—Tallow candles, six to the pound; ditto, of eight to the pound; pressed tallow; stearine ; spermaceti; wax. This relation was as to price only; the relative weights of material consumed followed a different order of arrange- ment, the spermaceti being the least, and the pressed tallow the greatest. In Dr. Ure's list (" Supplement to Dictionary of Arts ") the rela- tive quantities of light for a given price, or the relative cheapness of a given quantity of light, among several kinds of lamps and candles, are placed in the following order :— Hot-oil lamp, with southern whale oil, Carcel lamp, with sperm oil, Hot-oil lamp, with spenn oil, „ „ with common olive oil, „ „ with cocoa-nut oil, t French lamp, with sperm oil. Mould taUow candles, Palmei's spread-wick candles, Stearic acid candles, Cocoa-nut stearine, Spermaceti candles. Wax candles: the fii'st being, in point of economy, the cheapest, and the last the dearest. Dr. Fyfe's experiments (" Transactions of the Royal Scottish Society of Arts ") seem to have