PEP [ 313 J PEP of the seed are supposed to depend, a balsamic oil; a gummy colouring matter; extractive ana- logous to that of the leguminous plants; gallic and tartaric acid ; starch ; bassorine ; lignin, and a small quantity of earthy and alkaline salts. Piperin was discovered by Q5rstedt, and is in the form of colourless transparent crystals, and without taste. It has been highly praised by some as a febrifuge; but, by repeated experi- ments, it seems to have no action whatever on system. It has been thought by some that the this is the active principle of pepper, but that has been already proved to reside in the acrid concrete oil. Pepper, as is well known, is a warm, carminative stimulant; it strengthens the stomach, assists digestion, and gives tone to the •whole system, when employed in moderate quantity. But the inhabitants of the tropics ■use it to a much greater extent than we do: with it they almost saturate their food, drink it in decoction, make fermented liquors of it, which they take with relish, and which appear necessary in consequence of the excessive heat of the climate, the continual perspiration, and the debility of the digestive functions which such a temperature induces. As a medicine, pepper is chiefly employed to excite languid digestion and correct flatulence : it is the principal ingre- dient in the well-known medicine called Ward's paste, so celebrated in the cure of chronic piles. PEPPER CAKES. Boil i oz. of whole white pepper in a gill of sherry for a quarter of an hour, then strain and add the mixture to as much fine sugar as will make a paste; drop this on a tin plate, and let the cakes dry. PEPPER, CAYENNE. See Cayenne Pepper and Capsicum. PEPPER, GUINEA. Same as Capsicum. PEPPER, JAMAICA, more commonly known as Allspice, is the fruit of Eugenia pimento. The berries are dried by spreading them on a terrace exposed to the sun lor about seven days, during which time they gradually lose their green colour, and become of a reddish brown. They have a fragrant odour, which is supposed to resemble that of a mixture of cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg; and hence the name of allspice, by which they are known. Their taste is warm, aromatic, pungent, and slightly as- tringent. They impart their flavour to water, and all their virtues to alcohol, and yield a •volatile oil by distillation called oil of pimento. Besides the volatile oil, they contain a green fixed oil, a concrete, oleaginous substance, tannin, gum, resin, uncrystallisable sugar, colouring matter, malic and gallic acids, saline matters, moisture, and lignin. The green oil has the burning aromatic taste of pimento, and is supposed to be the acrid principle. Besides being used in domestic economy as a spice, it possesses medical properties, which are warm, aromatic, stimulant, and is particularly useful in cases attended with much flatulence. PEPPER, LONG, is formed of the dried female spikes of Chavica Roxburghii. It is used for the same purposes as black pepper. The tree is a native of the tropics, and it is worthy of notice that the natives of the Coro- mandel coast use it in catarrhs when the lungs are loaded with mucus. They make a tea of it, sweeten it with honey, and give it in repeated small quantities to the patient. PEPPER POT. Take as much spinach as will fill a good-sized dish, put it in a saucepan without any water, set it on the fire, and let it boil; then drain off all the liquor, chop the spinach very fine, and return it to the saucepan, with the water just drained from it, more water, onions, three or four potatoes, a lettuce or head of endive cut small, the bones of any cold roasted meat if you have them, and i lb. of bacon. Set the whole on the fire, and when it has boiled for about an hour put in a few suet dumplings; leave it twenty or thirty minutes longer, season it with Cayenne, and serve. PEPPER SAUCE. Take an onion or two, a couple of carrots, a parsnip, half a parsley root (all cut in slices), two cloves of garlic, a bay leaf, two cloves, and a little butter; set them on the fire, and when they take colour add some cullis, half a glass of vinegar and broth, salt, and coarse pepper ; reduce to a proper consistence, skim, and strain it. PEPPER, WHITE. See Pepper. PEPPERMINT [Mentha piperita) is a native of Britain. The plant has a warm, pungent, and camphorous taste, leaving a remarkably cold sensation in the mouth. Its odour is very strong, balsamic, and penetrating, particularly when touched, and which it does not lose even in drying. Peppermint is stimulant and aro- matic, and is good against spasmodic pains of the bowels, nausea, and flatulence. Its pioperties are owing to the presence of the large quantity of volatile oil which it contains, and which is obtained by distillation. Oil of peppermint is greenish yellow, and has a strong aromatic odour, with a warm, camphorous, and very pungent taste. PEPPERMINT DROPS. Mix finely pow- dered stigar with the whites of eggs to give it consistency; add 120 drops of the oil to every ^ lb. of sugar, dropping it off the point of a kuife; or, mix the sugar with lemon juice, and the same proportion of oil of peppermint. Dry it gently over the fire, and drop it. The drops may be rendered more stomachic by adding to those made with the white of egg 1 oz. of magnesia. Roll out and cut with a cutter. They may be