t 15 ] HAI HAI secretion of the concrete oil. Individuals who perspire much from the head, or have abundance of scurf, and such as are of delicate health, require the use of oil or pomatum. The best manner of applying either is to keep a soft hair brush for this purpose, and, having the oil or melted pomatum on the palm of the hand, to impregnate with it the brush, which is then to be applied to the hair. When enough has been communicated to this the hard hair brush must be applied. The oil or pomatum should be put to the hair either in the morning, after the head has been cleansed with the brush, or during the operations of the toilet before dinner. Previously to brushing the hair at bedtime it should be well rubbed with a piece of flannel kept for the purpose, in order to extract the grease, which it will do effectually. In applying greasy substances to the hair we must strongly recommend that not more be used than is necessary to give it a gloss without making it appear greasy ; for, although a little oil nourishes the hair and assists its growth, an excess produces quite a contrary effect. This is so true, that nature secretes in very minute portions the concrete oil we have mentioned, which is considerably less in quantity than the oil that constitutes the colouring principle. .From this circumstance, and the admitted fact that the Creator has admirably adapted, in organised beings, as in every other part of his creation, each substance to meet the neces- sity for which he made it, we may reasonably infer that a sparing supply of unctuous matter is best adapted for the improvement of the hair. There are various perfumed unguents, poma- tums, and oils in use for this purpose. We might give recipes for more than a hundred had we either space or inclination to do so. We have observed that the white concrete oil obtained by analysis from the hair is not unlike spermaceti in appearance, and that it contains a more than usual pi'oportion of stearine, and less of oleine, the two principles of fat. Experiments have been made with difficulty upon this oil, which can be obtained only in very minute quantities; but by means of careful examination the fact we have stated appears undoubted. We have, therefore, attempted to use for the hair an unguent of spermaceti combined with other substances, and so prepared that it shall be softer than pomatum, but more concrete than oil. This preparation, when on the palm of the hand, is in an instant melted, and becomes a thin oil. In consequence of the success that has invariably attended its use we here give the recipe for its preparation :—Into a very clean and well-tinned stewpan put a pint of very fresh oil of sweet almonds; set it over a slow fire, and gradually melt in it Ijoz. of spermaceti and 2 ozs. of very fresh hog's lard. The heat must be barely sufficient to melt these substances, for a high temperature would make the oil rancid in a few days. When the whole is melted pour it into a china or earthenware basin, and when almost cold stir into it whatever essential oils will communicate the perfume you prefer; then put it into pomatum pots, and as soon as it is quite cold tie the paper over the pots. This unguent would be still better if oil of ben were substituted for oil of sweet almonds, and purified beef marrow for hog's lard ; but the oil of ben, which never becomes rancid, is by far the most expensive. The beef marrow is purified by gently boiling a quantity of it in water until the fatty part floats upon the liquid. This is then allowed to cool, and the purified matter removed. Alcoholic preparations may be sometimes applied with beneficial effect to the hair when an additional stimulus is required. Hair washes containing no spirit are useless. The spirituous liquid should be applied at night before going to bed, and after having wsei oil or pomatum during the day, the remains of which it will remove. The hair must be well wetted with the preparation, and then brushed until it is quite dry. Perhaps the best of these nostrums is honey water. HAIR : To Promote. (See Baldness.) The most celebrated compound for this purpose is Dupiiytren's pomade, which is thus made :— Beef marrow, 6 ozs.; nervine balsam, 2 ozs.; Peruvian balsam, 2 ozs.; oil of almonds, 1* oz.; extract of cantharides, 16 grains. Melt the marrow and nervine balsam with the oil, strain, add the balsam of Peru, and lastly the extract, dissolved in 1 drachm of rectified spirit. Nervine balsam is made by melting together 4 ozs. each of beef marrow and oil of maco, and adding 2 drachms of balsam of tolu, and I drachm each of oil of cloves and camphor, dis- solved in ^ oz. of rectified spirit. M. Guibourt says that no better than the following can be used :—Beef marrow, 1 oz.; nervine balsam, 1 oz.; rose oil, 1 drachm ; ex- ti'act of cantharides (dissolved in spirit), 6 grains. These pomades should be rubbed on the scalp once or twice a day for some weeks. If any sore- ness is produced they should be less frequently applied. HAIR BRUSHES are best, because most lasting, when made of dark or black bristles. If chosen for the whiteness and delicate appear- ance of their bristles, durability is sacrificed to obtain a better appearance. Hair brushes a-re best cleaned by means of a little common wash- ing soda dissolved in cold water. Hot water and soap both tend to soften the bristles. Never