VEA VEA [ 525 ] off the chump end of the loin, take out the. aitch-bone, and put in its place some forcemeat; tie it up tightly, and lay it in the stewpan, with the bone that has been taken out, a bunch of sweet herbs, an anchovy, two blades of mace, some white pepper, and a pint of good veal stock; cover the veal with slices of fat bacon, and lay a sheet of white paper over it; cover the pan closely, and let it simmer for a couple of hours ; then take out the bacon, and glaze the veal. Serve it with mushroom or sorrel sauce in the dish, or any sauce you think better. VEAL, COLD. Cut some cold veal into thin slices, the size aijd thickness of half a crown, dip them into the yolk of an egg well beaten, and cover them with bread crumbs, sweet herbs, and lemon peel shred fine, and grated nutmeg. Put a little fresh butter into a pan, and keep it quite hot; fry the veal in it, and when done lay it on a dish by the side of the fire. Make a little gravy of a bone of veal, shnke a little flour into the pan, stir it round, add the gravy and a little lemon juice, pour it over tlie veal, and garnish with lemon. VEAL COLLOPS (1). Cut your meat into long collops, beat them well, lay on each a piece of bacon the same size, and spread forcemeat over all: season highly with garlic and Cayenne. Having rolled your collops up tightly about the size of two fingers, and two or three inches in length, fasten them with skewers; next rub them over with egg, fry them till they are of a nice brown, and serve them with a rich brown gravy. VEAL COLLOPS (2). Cut some cold roast veal into dice, and give them a toss up over the fire in a little butter with a pinch of flour; then add a little stock, shred parsley, scallions, salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; keep it on the fire till the sauce adheres to the mince, and then put the whole on a dish. Make a paste with a little flour, butter, water, and the yolk of an egg; dissolve a little salt in the water you use, roll the paste out very thin, and lay the cold mince .in little heaps on half of it; turn the other half over it, cut it round these little heaps, pinch the edges of all to keep in the meat, and fry your collops. VEAL, CURRY BALLS FOR. Take the yolk of an egg boiled hard, a bit of fresh butter about the size of the egg, and as much bread crumbled small as sufficient; beat the whole in a mortal', and season with curry powder. Make the composition into balls. VEAL CUTLETS : To Fry. Cut the veal into small pieces, beat them a little before dipping them into egg beaten up with salt, next sprinkle with bread crumbs; fry the cutlets till they are of a light brown in boiling lard, serve them with some gravy or mushroom sauce, and garnish with slices of ham or rashers of bacon. Force meat or pork sausages form an excellent accompaniment to a dish of veal cutlets. VEAL CUTLETS : To Stkw. Cut them about half an inch thick, flatten them with a chopper, and fry them in fresh butter or dripping. When brown on one side turn and do them on the other, continuing to do so till they are thoroughly done, which will be in about a quarter of an hour. Make a gravy of some trimmings, which put into a stewpan, with a bit of soft butter, an onion, a roll of lemon-peel, a blade of mace, some thyme, parsley, and a bay leaf; stew the whole over a slow fire for an hour, and then strain it; put I oz. of butter into another pan, and when melted mix with it as much flour as will dry it up ; stir this for a few minutes, then add the gravy by degrees till the whole is mixed, boil it five minutes, then strain it through a sieve, and put it to the cutlets. Some browning may be added, together with mushroom or walnut catsup, or lemon pickle. VEAL CUTLETS IN CRUST. Make a marinade with melted butter, mushrooms, shallots, hall a clove of garlic, pepper, and salt, and let the cutlets simmer in this for an hour; then wrap them in puff paste with all the seasoning, put them in a deep dish, and bake them in an oven ; baste witii yolks of eggs, and make a hole into the middle, in which pour a good clear sauce when ready to serve. VEAL CUTLETS, LARDED. Cut the best end of a neck of veal into chops, leaving only a part of the long bone; lard, blanch, and stew them, and when done drain and fry them. Place them round a dish, with green truGBe or white mushroom sauce in the middle. VEAL CUTLETS A LA MAINTENON. Cut the veal into slices about three parts of an inch thick, beat them, and rub them on both sides with egg. Next dip them into a mixture of crumbs of bread, parsley, thyme, marjoram, pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. After this put them into papers, which must be folded over them. In this state broil the cutlets, and when done serve them with melted butter and catsup separately. VEAL CUTLETS, MARINATED. Ve'al cutlets marinated are done the same as for all marinades ; or you may do them as in Veal, Bre.\st of (Marinated), and serve with what- ever sauce you approve of. VEAL CUTLETS IN PAPER. Chop up all sorts of sweet herbs, season with pepper and salt, and mix with a little oil; roll the cutlets in it so that they may be well covered; then wrap them in paper well buttered, broil them slowly, and serve with or without sauce. VEAL CUTLETS WITH RAGOUT. Cut some large cutlets from the fillet, beat them flat, and lard them ; strew over them pepper, Bait, bread crumbs, and shred parsley; then