POM [ 346 ] POI POIVEADE. Put into a stewpan a large Dunch of parsley leaves, some scallions, some bay leaves, a little thyme, a dessert-spoonful of fine white pepper, a glass of vinegar, and a small quantity of butter ; set the pan on the fire and reduce the whole till nearly all gone, when add two ladlesful of Espagnole and one of stock; reduce these again to the proper con- sistence, and strain it for use. POKER. This should never be left in the fire long enough to get red-hot. As much air may be admitted among the fuel by gently raising it up, and then withdrawing the poker, as by leaving it in to get oxidised, or " burnt away." Many accidents occur from the im- propriety of leaving the poker in the fire after stirring it, the best way of avoiding which is never to leave it in such a situa- tion. But if a small cross of iron, projecting about an inch and a half each way, were welded or soldered above the square part of the poker, called the bit, it could not be thrust into the fire farther than that part; and if it should fall out the fender would most probably aiTest it, and prevent its falling on the floor, and of course prevent the mischief; and should it even fall on the floor, the probability is that the heated part could not remain in contact with it. POLENTA. See Mush. POLYPUS. This troublesome excrescence is usually considered as within the practice of the surgeon only, but we know it to be much under the control of diet and medicine. In support of our own knowledge we quote the following statement by Mr. Abernethy:— " I have known several instances of persons who have for a long time been subject to polypi of the nose, in which the polypi ceased to grow after some attention had been paid to correct a disorder of the digestive organs. In further confirmation of the opinion that diseases of the nose depend much upon the state of the sto- mach, I shall mention the case of a woman who had a disease of the nose which I expected would at least prove very tedious and very troublesome, but which got well speedily under simple dressings, in consequence, as it appeared, from the effect of internal medicines. " Case. The patient was between thirty and forty years of age, had a furred tongue, bowels alternately costive and lax, and the discharges discoloured. An enlargement of the left ala nasi, caused by a great thickening of the parts covering and lining the cartilage, had gradually taken place. The skin was discoloured, and an ulcer, about the size of a sixpence, had formed on the under surface of the ala. The sore was deep, with a sloughing surface, and uneven and spreading edges. Spermaceti cerate was em- ployed as a dressing, and the external skin was frequently bathed with Goulard's wash. She was ordered to take internally 5 grains of rhu- barb an hour before dinner, 5 grains of the pil. hydrarg. every second night, and the infusion of gentian with senna occasionally. The sore ceased to spread, the swelling gradually sub- sided, and all diseased appearances were re- moved in the course of a month. The patient also found her health considerably amended." POMATUM, COMMON. Melt together 3 lbs. of lard and 1 lb. of suet. Stir in whilst cooling 2 ozs. of essence of lemon or bergamot, or of any other perfume preferred. POMATUM, FRENCH. Beef marrow, purified as for Pommade Divine, 1 oz.; hog's lard, 1 oz.; spermaceti, 1 oz.; oil of ben, 1 pint. You may substitute for oil of ben either fresh olive oil or fresh cold-drawn oil of sweet almonds. Melt the above articles together in a hot-water bath, then strain the liquid oil through a linen bag, and stir in a dessert- spoonful of oil of bergamot, 10 drops of oil of roses, and the same quantity of oil of nutmeg. POMATUM, HARD. Melt together i lb. of lard, i lb. of suet, and 2 ozs. of white wax. Stir in ^ oz. of essence of lemon or other per- fume, and pour into moulds made of stiff paper. POMATUM, HONEY. Melt gently together in the hot-water bath honey, ^ lb.; hog's lard, 2 ozs.; balsam of Peru, ^ lb. Strain them through a muslin rag, and when sufficiently cold stir in oil of cedrat 20 drops, oil of nutmeg 10 drops, civet 2 grains. POMATUM, ROLL. This is made and modelled in the same way, but the following ingredients are employed:—Suet, 1 lb. ; white wax, H oz; spermaceti, J oz.; oil of lavender, 30 drops; oil of bergamot, 20 drops. See Cosmetics. POMEGRANATES, SYRUP OF. Take five very ripe large pomegranates, extract the seeds, which must be very red; crush and put them into a skillet, with half a pint of water; set them on the fire till soft, and then squeeze the juice through a new coarse cloth; clarify l^lb. of sugar, and boil it to souffle; then add the juice, and boil them together to the usual consistence of syrups. It must not be bottled till quite cold. This number of pome- granates will yield a quart of syrup. POMEGRANATES, TRANSPARENT JELLY OF. Take the seeds from five very fine pomegranates, from which extract the juice by pressing it hard through a horsehair sieve; filter this juice, and mix it with some syrup tinged of a rose colour with a little cochineal; add the isinglass to thi^,' and finish as usual.