[ 157 ] LOA LIV bruise them with the back of a spoon, and mix them in a little of the liquor thej were boiled in ; melt some butter till very smooth, and put it to them; add a little grated lemon-peel, and boil all up together. LIVER SAUSAGE. Take four lambs'livers, with the lights and heart; have two lambs' heads cleaned, and boil them with any scraps or skinny pieces you have; skim the pot, take out the livers when they are done, and let the heads boil longer. When they are done pick out the bones, and chop all up together; season with sage, thym«, sweet marjoram, salt, and pepper; put it m pans, and fry it as sausage. LIVER STOCK. Fresh livers of old cattle give the highest-flavoured and strongest stock, which is excellent. Wash and wipe the liver before cutting it into thin slices; put it inta a broad frying-pan, with butter or rendered beef suet, and fry it slowly of a deep brown. If a great deal of colour is wanted dust it with fl^our, but do not let it harden much. Slice and fry 3 ozs. of onion, with a carrot and turnip, to every pound of liver; dress a saucepan with thin slices of bacon; put over them the liver, and cover this with the vegetables ; add allspice, pepper, salt, and sweet herbs, with a pint of browned water to each pound, or more if for soup. Lute the vessel, and set it upon a hot hearth or in a hot oven for four or five hours. In simmering meat no evaporation ought to take place, as it carries off the spirit. LIVER TOASTS. Make a farce with some bread soaked in cream, truffles, one or two fat livers, marrow, and shallots, all well pounded, and mixed with shred parsley, pepper, salt, and eggs ; cut some slices of crumb of bread about half an inch thick, spread the farce on of the same thickness as the bread, smooth them with a knife dipped in white of egg, strew bread crumbs over, and fry them. Serve with any clear sauce under them. LIVP]RNAISE. This sauce is only a mace- doine made with Espagnole instead of bechamel. Eeduce a few carrots and turnips to a glaze, and add them to the Espagnole, taking care that it does not boil, LIVERS WITH MUSHEOOMS. Take the livers of any sort of tame fowls, and when they are cleared from the galls put pieces of bacon at the bottom of a baking-pan, and lay the livers upon them ; season the livers, cover them with pieces of bacon, and bake them in a moderately heated oven. Wash and pick some mushrooms, dry them over a stove, and lay them in a dish, with a little bacon and vinegar; then toss some slices of ham in boil- ing lard, with a bunch of savory and a pinch of flour, and moisten with some veal gravy. When the mushrooms and livers are well drained boil them in the same sauce, skim off the fat, ar d serve them up hot. LIVERS AU RAGOtT. Take the liver of a turkey and the livers of half a dozen fowls, clean them, and take the greatest care not to break the galls, for if the livers are bitter the dish will be spoiled. Put them into cold water, and then put the livers of the fowls into a stewpan, with rather more than a quarter of a pint of gravy, a spoonful of catsup, a spoonful of pickled mushrooms, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and some salt and pepper. Stew them gently ten or twelve minutes. Nicely broil the turkey's liver, lay it in the middle of the dish, place the stewed liver round it, and pour the sauce over. LIVERS, TOQRTE OF. Put the crust upon a pie dish in the usual manner, and lay pounded bacon at the bottom; season the livers, and place them on the bacon; cover them with butter, a bunch of sweet herbs, one slice of ham, and a few slices of bacon ; cover and bake. The ham, bacon, and herbs must be taken out when done ; drain ofi" the fat, pour a ragout of cock's combs in, and serve. LIVERWORT, SYRUP OF. Make a quart of strong liverwort tea by extracting two sets of herbs in the same water; tie a tea-cup of flax seed in a bag, and put with it; keep it covered while drawing. When the strength is all out strain it on ] lb. of sugar, and let it boil slowly till it is thick, keeping it covered to prevent the strength from going off. When cold bottle it, and set the bottle in a cool place while using it. Take a table-spoonful about six times a day. This has been used for a cough with great benefit. LOADSTONE. See Magnet. LOIF CAKE. Take about lib. of risen dough, and work into it a tea-cup of butter, three beaten eggs, 1 lb. of sugar, a nutmeg grated, and a glass of brandy or wine : 1 lb. of raisins, stoned and chopped, should be added after it is well beaten. Half a pint of cream slightly warmed, with a table-spoonful of vinegar and a tea-spoon- ful of dissolved saleratus, should be stirred in just as you are ready to bake it; also sifted flour enough to make it of a proper consistence. Bake in a large pan in a brick oven or stove, and it will require an hour and a quarter. LOAF A LA DUCHESSE. Blanch and pound 2 ozs. of pistachio nuts, J lb. of sweet almonds, 2 ozs. of dried lemon chips, and ^ lb. of sugar. When all these are reduced to a paste mix it with the yolks of six eggs, add the whites well beaten, form into the shape of a loaf, place it in a buttered dish, and bake in a slow oven. When done glaze and strew nonpareils over it. LOAF, ROYAL. Take out nearly all the crumb of a small round or oval loaf of fine