LET LEN added the sifted powder, mix the whole to- gether. This is a well-known, mild, and plea- sant purgative, and well adapted for those af- flicted with habitual costiveness. The dose is from one drachm to four or more, taken at bed- time. LENTIL CULLIS. Make a meat gravy with veal, ham, onions, parsley, scallions, two cloves, and some winter savory ; set these on the fire, and when the meat catches add some stock, and simmer till done. Boil the lentils in stock, pound and rub them through a sieve into the stewpan with the meat, and give the whole one boil; then take out the meat, and strain the cullis, which must not be too thick. LENTILS. Choose them large and white, and after having washed and picked them, boil in water. When done fricassee them like white kidney beans. There is a small sort of lentil which is not much used in fricassees, but is the best to make cullis, both from the colour being finer and the flavour better. LENTILS, FRICASSEED. Make a light roux, in which put some sweet herbs or onions cut into dice ; give them a few turns in the roux, to which add a little stock or water, and when well mixed put in the lentils, with salt and pepper. Serve them hot. LENTILS, PUREE OF. Take two pints of lentils, do them in the same manner as dry peas, and when done take out the vegetables, bacon, and beef; strain the lentils, and put them into a stewpan, with three or four ladlesful of Espagnole. This puree requires more liquid than the peas, as it will take a longer time to colour. Skim it well, and be careful not to make it too thick. When properly reduced put it into another saucepan, and set it by till wanted. LEPROSY, or Lepea. A disease of the ekin, appearing at first in red pimples or pus- tules on different parts of the body. Sometimes they appear singly, and sometimes a great num- ber arise together, especially on the arms and legs. As the disease increases fresh pimples appear, which, joining the former, make a sort of cluster. The pustules are rough, whitish, and scaly ; when scratched the scabs fall off, a thin ichor oozes out, and hardens into a scaly crust. The whole body is at length covered with a scaly crust. This disease is little known in this country. The cure consists in the internal use of anti- monial and mercurial medicines for a consider- able length of time. In conjunction with these, warm bathing, particularly the vapour bath, has often been employed with advantage. Although leprosy, strictly so called, is a very rare disease, yet to this head may be referred a variety of cutaneous affections, which are in this country very common, and often verj' obstinate. They appear in different forms ; sometimes in red pustules; sometimes in white scurfs ; some- times in ulcerations ; and sometimes a transition from one form to another takes place. All these will often give way to the remedies al- ready mentioned ; but they sometimes fail, or are improper to be prescribed. In some cases purging, mineral water, or the decoction of elm bark will be of service. Where there is a watery itching and spreading eruption, more particu- larly incident to old persons, a strong decoction of juniper tops, drunk to the quantity of a quart a day, and long persisted in, lias been very effectual. Different external applications, such as an ointment of sulphur, the ointment of nitrated quicksilver, tar ointment with calomtl, or a weak solution of corrosive sublimate in an almond emulsion, in the proportion of half a grain of the former to 1 oz. of the latter, have been frequently beneficial. At the same time, these mercurial preparations cannot be applied, even externally, with too much caution. The diet of persons labouring under such complaints cannot be here specified ; the weakly and the old will require, however, a more gene- rous one than the healthy and robust. The bowels should in every case be kept soluble. See Elephantiasis. LETHARGY. {See Apoplexy.) This is a species of apoplexy, which is manifested by an in- vincible drowsiness or inclination to sleep, from which the patient is with difficulty awakened; and, if roused, he remains destitute both of sense and memory, so that he soon relapses into his former sleep. It is attended with an increased degree of heat, slow fever, full pulse, paleness, swelling of the eyes, and a coldness of the extremities. Various circumstances concur to produce this affection : the more remarkable of these are, injuries of the brain, arising either from ex- ternal or internal causes ; congestions of blood in the head; terror, anger, or other depressing passions; to which may be added sneezing medicines and strong exhalations of flowers. Man}' remedies have been employed to re- move this growing drowsiness with different degrees of success. In plethoric persons blood- letting, blisters, and emetics have often pro- cured relief. Considerable benefit has also been derived from the sudden affusion of cold water upon the head, from the use of stimulant clysters, and the burning of feathers or other fetid substances held near the nostrils. The patient ought to avoid whatever is difficult of digestion, such as heavy salt meats, fish, milk, and cheese. His diet should be light, and taken in small quantities ; while he must endeavour to resist and counteract the propensity to sleep