SEI SEC L 428 ] must be provided iu a chafing-dish, and the stick is to be held for a short time over the fire, then passed over a bit of mutton suet or candle tallow, and rubbed with a piece of soft leather. The stick is marked by heating it, and then pressing on the stamp. A variety of inferior kinds of sealing-wax may be made by using less shellac, camphor, and vermilion, and supplying their places by yellow resin and red-lead. The addition of the camphor is to make the wax bum well. Black Sealing-Wax. Take of camphor 2 ozs.; shellac, 5 lbs.; black resin, 3 lbs.; oil of turpentine, Ipint; lampblack, 8 ozs. Dissolve the camphor in the turpentine, then add the shellac and the resin previously melted, taking care in both instances that no flame touches the melting materials, and using also a mode- rate heat. Lastly, mix in the lampblack in the same manner as directed for vermilion in the making of red sealing-wax ; and, after all is uniformly incorporated, form sticks in the same manner as directed for red sealing-wax. An inferior black sealing-wax may be made by add- ing more resin and turpentine, and less shellac and camphor. The same ingredients may be coloured blue by artificial ultramarine , brown by English umber; green by Prussian blue and double its quantity of King's yellow (mixed) ; yellow by King's yellow. Peefdmed Wax is made by adding a little powdered gum benzoin. See Bottle Wax. SEC-SEC. This curry is made of vegetables intermixed with butchers' meat, fowl, or game. If you have any green capsicums boil some well, and put them into a little nice gravy, with a clove or two of garlic and some curry powder. If you have no capsicums use Cayenne. Pre- pare for boiling whatever vegetables may be used, such as spinach, sorrel, French beans, artichokes, asparagus, cabbage, small early potatoes, &c. When the vegetables are ready mix in any meat that has been prepared by cutting small, and dressing into proper pieces; add nicely fried onions, and season witJi the prepared sauce, mixing all well together, and taking care that it is not too wet. Have hot dripping ready, put in the prepared curry, and manage it so that it may not burn. While it is frying mix in a little cream or marrow, with a few pounded almonds, cocoa or any other nuts, lemon pickle or juice, and Indian pickle. The great secret of making curiy consists in the ingredients and spices being properly mixed, and left to incorporate for some time. SEED CAKE. Take 2ilbs. of flour, add i lb. of Lisbon or powdered white sugar, make a cavity in the middle, and pour in half a pint of warm milk and a table-spoonful of yeast; mix these with flour enough to mase it Iiko thick cream, and set it in a warm place for one hour. Meanwhile melt to an oil 8 ozs. of fresh butter, and add to the rest, with 1 oz. of caraway seeds, and milk to give it a moderate stiffness. Line a hoop with paper well rubbed with butter, put in the cake, and set it some time in a stove or before the fire, after which bake it on a tin plate about one hour in a hot oven. When done sprinkle some milk on it with a brush. SEEDS, SUGARED. These are done in the same manner as sugared almonds. The seeds most generally used for this purpose are anise, cumin, and fennel. The best method of proceeding is as follows :—Place a small pre- serving-pan over a charcoal fire, on one side of which have a chafing-dish, on which keep a pan with a quantity of sugar boiled to lisse (this sugar should be kept quite hot, but not boiling), and on the other side have some fine powder. When so far prepared put your seeds into a pan, and as soon as they begin to heat pour over them a large spoonful or two of syrup; stir them about that all may be thoroughly satu- rated with it, then sprinkle over them a handful or two of powder, and continue this alternately until your seeds are sufiiciently large ; then lay them on a sieve, and keep them in a warm place for some days, after which put them into glass bottles. SEIDLITZ OR SEYDSCHUTZ WATER. Seidlitz water is found at a village of that name in Bohemia, and was brought into notice, as a medicine of considerable efficacy, by the celebrated Hoffmann about the year 1721. The spring of Seydschutz is situated at a very short distance fiora that of Seidlitz, and resembles it in chemical composition. To the taste these waters are very saline and bitter, but not in the least acidulous. They are not brisk. The solid contents procured by evaporation to dryness, according to Bergmann, are in the following proportion. The English wine pint of 28,875 cubic inches contains— Grains. Carbonate of lime i . • •9A4. Sulphate o£ lime _ . . . 5-140 Carbonate of magnesia • . 2-622 Chloride of magnesium . . , 4-.'jC7 Sulphate of magnesia (Epsom salt). 180-497 193-770 From this analysis it appears that they are decidedly purgative, and that they owe this medical property to their strong impregnation with the sulphate of magnesia, or Epsom salt. They operate very speedily, and are parti- cularly useful in freeing the body from crude, viscid, acid, and acrid bilious matters. They