HEA [ 32 ] HEA HEADACHE. Aches and pains proceed from very different causes, and may affect any part of the body; but we shall point out those only which occur most frequently, and are attended with the greatest danger. When the headache is slight, and affects a particular part of the head only, it is called cephalalgia; when the whole head is affected, cephalaa; and when one side only, hemicrania. A fixed pain in the forehead, which may be covered with the end of the thumb, is called the clavis hystericus. There are also other distinctions. Some- times the pain is internal, sometimes external; sometimes it is an original disease, and at other times only symptomatic. When the headache proceeds from a hot, bilious habit the pain is very acute and throbbing, with a considerable heat of the part affected. When from a cold, phlegmatic habit the patient complains of a dull, heavy pain, and has a sense of coldness in the part. This kind of headache is sometimes attended with a degree of stupidity or folly. Causes. Whatever obstructs the free circula- tion of the blood through the vessels of the head may occasion a headache. In persons of a full habit, who abound with blood, the headache often proceeds from the suppression of customary evacuations, as bleeding at the nose, sweating of the feet, &c. It may likewise proceed from any cause that determines a great flux of blood towards the hpd, as coldness of the extremities, or hanging down the head for a long time. Whatever prevents the return of the blood from the head will likewise occasion a headache, as looking long obliquely at any object, wearing anything tight about the neck, a new hat, or the like. When a headache proceeds from the stoppage of a running at the nose there is a heavy, obtuse, pressing pain in the fore part of the head, in which there seems to be such a weight that the patient can scarcely hold it up. Sometimes the headache proceeds from the repulsion or retrocession of the gout, the ery- sipelas, the smallpox, measles, itch, or other eruptive diseases. What is called a hemicrania generally proceeds from crudities or indigestion. Inanition, or emptiness, will also occasion head- aches. There is likewise a most violent, fixed, con- stant, and almost intolei-able headache, which occasions great debility both of body and mind, prevents sleep, destroys the appetite, causes a vertigo, dimness of sight, a noise in the ears, convulsions, epileptic fits, and some- times vomiting, costiveness, coldness of the extremities, &c. , The headache is often symptomatic in continual and intermitting fevers, especially quartans. It is likewise a very common symp- tom in hysteric and hypochondriac complaints. When a headache attends an acute fever, with pale urine, it is an unfavourable symptom. In excessive headaches coldness of the ex- tremities is a bad sign. When the disease continues long, and is very violent, it often terminates in blindness, apoplexy, deafness, vertigo, palsy, or epilepsy. In this disease the cool regimen in general is to be observed. The diet ought to consist of such emollient substances as will correct the acrimony of the humours and keep the body open, as apples boiied in milk, spinach, turnips, and such like. The drink ought to be diluting, as barley water, infusions of mild mucilaginous vegetables, decoctions of the sudorific woods, &c. The feet and legs ought to be kept warm, and frequently bathed in lukewarm water ; the head should be shaved and bathed with water and vinegar. The patient ought, as much as possible, to keep in an erect posture, and not to lie with his head too low. When the headache is owing to excess of blood, or a hot, bilious constitution, bleeding is necessary. • The patient may be bled in the jugular vein, and the operation repeated if there be occasion. Cupping, also, or the appli cation of leeches to the temples and behind the ears, will be of service: afterwards a blistering plaster may be applied to the neck, behind the ears, or to any part of the head that is most affected. In some cases it will be proper to blister the whole head. In persons of a gross habit, issues, or perpetual blisters, will be of service. The body ought likewise to be kept open by gentle laxatives. Bat when the headache proceeds from a copious vitiated serum, stagnating in the mem- branes either within or without the scull, with a dull, heavy, continual pain, which will neithe yield to bleeding nor gentle laxatives, then more powerful purgatives are necessary, as pills made of aloes, resin of jalap, or the like. It will also be necessary in this case to blister the whole head, and to keep the back part of the neck open for a considerable time by a perpetual blister. When the headache is occasioned oy the stoppage of a running at the nose the patient should frequently smell to a bottle of volatile salts ; he may likewise take snuff, or anything that will irritate the nose so as to promote a discharge from it, as the herb mastic, ground ivy, <fcc. A hemicrania, especially a periodical one, is generally owing to a foulness of the stomach, for which gentle vomits must be administered, as also purges of rhubarb. After the bowels