POM POP [ 347 ] POMMADE DIVINE. Half an avoirdupois pound of beef marrow is to be well cleansed from bones and membranous matter, and then put into a pan of spring water. The water must be changed twice a day during ten suc- cessive days, when it must be drained off. By this time the marrow will be much altered, being now converted into a substance called adipocere. A pint of rose water is added to the altered marrow, which is left to soak in it during twenty-four hours. The rose water being then drained off, the following ingredients, reduced to impalpable powder, are incorporated with the marrow : — Storax, 1 oz.; beuzoin, 1. oz.; cypress root, 1 oz.; Florentine orris root, 1 oz.; cinnamon, 4 drachms ; cloves, 2 drachms ; nutmeg, 2 drachms. The mixture thus formed is put into a closely-stopped pewter vessel, which is set in a saucepan of boiling water on the fire. Let the water boil during three hours, gradually supplying the loss by evaporation, so as not to check the boiling, and taking care that the pewter vessel is always under water. Strain the pomatum through muslin, pour it into pomatum pots, and when quite cold tie paper and bladder over the mouth of each pot. See Cosmetics. PONE, COLD-WATER. Make a stiff batter with a quart of Indian-corn meal, cold water, and a little salt; work it well with the hand, grease a pan or oven, and bake it three quarters of an hour. Eat it hot at dinner, or with milk at supper. PONE, LIGHTENED. Take half a gallon of Indian-corn meal, pour boiling water on one- third of it, and mix it together with warm water till it is a thick batter; put in two table-spoonsful of lively yeast and one of salt, stir it well, and set it by the fire to rise. When it begins to open on the top grease the Dutch oven, and put it to bake, or bake it in a pan in a stove. PONE, VIRGINIA. Beat three eggs, and stir them in a quart of milk, with a little salt, a spoonful of melted butter, and as much sifted Indian-coi-n meal as will make it as thick as corn batter cakes; grease the pans, and bake quickly. POPE'S POSSET. Beat f lb. of almonds, sweeten and boil a pint of sherry, or any other wine, and boil the almonds in half a pint of water; mix them boiling hot together, beat them smooth with a spoon, and serve hot in a china basin. POPPY. (See Opium.) Poppy heads are the dried seed-vessels or capsules of the plant, and are used in medicine as an external emol- lient and anodyne application; in the form of emulsion, syrup, or extract, they are often used internally to calm irritation, promote rest, and produce the narcotic effects of opium. Poppy seeds do not possess any of the nai'cotic or acrid properties of the plant, but, on the contrary, consist of a simple farinaceous matter, abound- ing in a bland oil, which is obtained by ex- pression. In some parts of Europe and the East they are employed as an article of food, being baked in cakes, or strewed upon bread and butter. The ancients rolled them up in their bread to excite an appetite. Virgil calls it cereale papaver, either from the seeds being eaten as food, or from its being sown among the corn as an offering to Ceres, to whom the plant was dedicated, and who is always represented crowned with poppies. Tournefort observes that poppy seeds iucrusted with sugar, after the manner of comfits, are extensively consumed by all classes of the Genoese. They are eaten by the Egyptians and Persians, and Gilibert in- forms us that they are made into puddings by the inhabitants of Lithuania; and they may be employed in emulsions for the same purposes as sweet almonds. Poppy seed is consumed to a considerable extent under the name of maw- seed, being given to singing birds as a cooling food when they are moulting. Poppy oil is sweet, almost inodorous, of an agreeable taste, and very wholesome. It is not only frequently mixed with, but is used as a substitute for olive oil, and is applied to many domestic purposes instead of butter, and to the finer kinds of oil painting. It burns and smokes badly, is drying, saponaceous, and does not solidify nor become rancid. The cake or residue, after the oil is expressed, forms a nutritious food for cattle, like the linseed-oil cake. In 1700, when the olive crop failed, the poppy oil furnished a ready and acceptable substitute. Pcqmver rhtnas, or corn poppy, so common in the corn-fields of England, and no small source of annoyance to the farmer, has its uses also. The heads contain the same milky juice as the common poppy, and opium has been extracted from them, but in so small a quantity that the return does not remunerate for the labour. The petals—which have a narcotic smell, are mucilaginous, and slightly bitter—are employed officinally, more for the beautiful scarlet colour which they communicate to water than for any medicinal virtues which they may possess. A syrup is prepared from them, which was formerly prescribed in catarrhal affections, but is now valued only for its colour- ing properties. The colouring principle of the flowers is formed by two acids, which are termed rhmadic and papaveric acids. Theocritus tells us that the Greeks had a custom of taking a petal of the com poppy, and laying it on the thumb and forefinger of one hand, and slapping it with the other. If it gave a crack it was a sign their lovers loved them; but if it failed they