HOU HOU [ 48 J In the country it is of little consequence, pro- vided there is no marshy ground or standing water near the residence ; but if situated near a river or stream it is desirable that the house should be seated on an elevation, because there is always an exhalation rising from the water; and in some states of the atmosphere the course of the stream is marked by a dense mist, which extends to some distance on either side On high ground there is always a freshness, a sweetness, a buoyancy in the air, which in- fluences the spirits as well as the health, and of which we are immediately sensible when we ascend a rising ground. If we have the power of selecting a residence, therefore, it should be high and dry, and in every case as far as possible removed from anything likely to pro- duce unwholesome effluvia. The neighboui'hood of tan-yards, foundries, and all places of that description, should be strictly avoided in a town. Distilleries are frequently unbearable to those living near them ; but the lower classes are far less annoyed by such nuisances than those in a higher station ; therefore it is better not to run the risk of encountering them than to trust to the assurance that they luive never been found inconvenient. The neighbourhood ot mews, also, is very objectionable for the same reason. Noises are as unpleasant as disagreeable smells, although habit sometimes accustoms us so much to them that we cease to hear them. We re- member residing for three years near a water- mill. For a long time it was extremely dis- tressing, but by degrees the ear became familiarised to the sound, and the annoyance lessened, though it never entirely ceased. We have become so used to the ticking of a clock as at last not to hear it at all; and we have been actually obliged to listen to the incessant roar of carriages in London, which for the first few days after our arrival deafened and distracted us. Still every con- tinuous noise should be avoided if possible. Stonemasons' yards, blacksmiths' shops, iron- mongers' premises, and all noisy places of that ' description, are extremely annoying, especially to those whose habits are quiet, and whose minds are disengaged. We have time then to feel an annoyance, though, if we were busily engaged in active employment, we might be little conscious of what passes round us. At the same time, for the encouragement of all who are obliged to endure such disagreeables, let us remember that we shall be fully enabled to bear them if we regard them in their proper light, and consider that it is part of our duty to God to submit cheerfully to whatever is laid upon us, whether it be a heavy affliction or a trifling incon- venience Such is the waywardness and selfish- uess of the heart that sometimes a tiifle is more difBcult to be borne with than a positive trial ; and, insignificant as it may seem to others, we may practise as rigid self-denial by curbing our own murmuring temper in these little things as by submitting to a serious evil. And of this we may be quite sure, that if we see in everything the hand of God we shall be enabled to pass through the daily occurrences of life with wonderful composure, and comparatively little inconvenience. A town house, to be healthy, should possess plenty of good water and free ventilation. Where water is impure or scarce the incon- venience is really a very serious one, and this should be inquired into with great care as a preliminary, for no house, however suitable in other respects, can be desirable if this grand means of health and comfort is unattainable, It is not sufiicient that good water is to be had —that it is near at hand ; it should be in our house, and it must be a very strong and weighty considei'ation indeed that should induce us to overlook this point. The way to discover the pux'ity of water is to fill a deep ale glass, and then look down into it. This will display the slightest tinge of colour. To be pure water should be colourless. Hard water is objec- tionable, because it contains earthy and saline substances, which are injurious to some internal diseases. It is not so good for cook- ing, or washing, or brewing, as what is called soft water; but for washing it can be rendered soft either by using soda or lye, and for dressing vegetables a small tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda will correct the hardness. Some water is chalybeate in its nature, and will not agree with every constitution. The quantity of iron con- tained in it may be so slight that it cannot even oe called brackish to the taste, and therefore it is advisable to have water analysed to be quite sure of its being wholesome. The pipes and tanks through which water passes will some- times affect it very injuriously: by having it analysed the presence of lead will be discovered and guarded against. Water has so impoitant an influence upon the health that every caution should be taken to have it pure and good, as well as plentiful. Not a single part of our daily food is prepared without it ; therefore persons who are not, strictly speaking, water drinkers, receive a considerable quantity through that medium. Water containing iron gives additional trouble in the kitchen, because sauce- pans rust much sooner, and in one case we know that it was almost impossible to keep them in a fit state either for use or display on the shelves, for nothing looks so bad as rusty tins and saucepans. This point, therefore, should be carefully attended to in selecting a residence; for the best situation and most convenient rooms