W E A W E A [ 534 ] is favoured with a good supply by sucking during his first three or four mouths, and is iu a tolerably healthy state, he will rarely be the worse for weaniug at this early period ; so that if he is uot rather weakly, and if difficulties attend liis being suckled, there need not be any hesitation about taking him from the breast. If he feeds tolerably with the spoon, and is free from disorder iu his bowels, a tendency to con- vulsions, &c., weaning may be attempted at any time. But if feeding with the spoon is difficult, if the child is much subject to the gripes, &c., another nurse should be sought for, and weaning must be deferred until more favoui'able circum- stances attend. In general, the sooner a child is weaned the more easily it parts with the breast. Prudence directs to accustom a child to early feeding with the spoon, and to continue the same until the breast be wholly omitted. Children, if healthy, may be weaned at any age ; but as, in general, their digestion grows strong enough at about nine or ten months, they should only be fed once in six hours, at the most, during the first two months; should be entirely weaned from the breast as speedily as is convenient, and also from all feeding in the night, for that bloats them; and, if they were not used to it in the first week, they would never want it. In a week or two the child will be formed to a habit of sleeping most of the night very quietly, awaking only when wet, on which occasion it should be laid dry. The food should be simple and light, not spoiled with sugar, wine, and such-like addi- tions, for they produce the diseases that children are most troubled with. Unfermented flour makes a tough food, that turns sour before it digests, and well fermented bread soon turns sour; but if this latter is made into fresh panada every night and morning, or, in cool weather, in the morning, the inconvenience of souring is prevented. To prevent acidity in the child's stomach by a daily use of vegetable food, give now and theu a little fresh broth, made from either veal, mut- ton, or beef, once or twice in the day. Suppose, for example, a mixture of equal parts of the gravy which is discharged in cutting a joint that is brought hot on tlie table, and warm water, to which may be added a little salt, and thus an excellent broth is readily made. This is said to fill children with humours, it is true, but the humours are only of the most nourisli- ing kind. Cow's milk, a little diluted with water, is an excellent substitute for the mother's; yet it is apt to turn souit Rice is not so apt to turn sour as wheat bread is ; it therefore would be a more convenient food for children, and deserves to be attended to. Toasted bread ooiled in water till it is almost dry, then mixed with fresh milk not boiled, is an agreeable change. As the teeth advance the diet may increase in its solidity. As to the quantity, let the appetite be the measure of it, observing to satisfy hunger, but no more, which may be thus managed ; feed the child no longer than he eats with a degree of eagerness. In feeding, let the child be held in a sitting posture, and thus continue it until the stomach has nearly digested its contents. The too common practice of violently dancing and shaking the child should be avoided. Keep the child awake until it breaks wind after each time it is fed; divert it during the day as much as you can; and thus it will soon lie quiet all the night. Never awaken a child when it is asleep, for thus sickness and peevish- ness are often produced. As soon as teeth appear give the child now and then a piece of flesh meat in its hand to chew, but never give it any confectioneries. WEATHER. [See B,\rometer.) Signs of fine weather hy birds. Fine weather may be said to be certain when wild ducks fly towards the sea; when the kites and bitterns cry as they fly; the swallows fly at great heights, because then the flies keep in the upper regions ; the apodes fly after each other in the air till late in the evening, with vivacity of noise; the ravens and sparrow-hawks cry fre- quently and loudly; the turtle-doves coo softly; the robin rises in the air singing; the owl hoots ; tlie wren (Sylvia troglodytes) sings in the morn- ing till nine or ten o'clock, and after midday till four or five o'clock : beyond this time their song announces rain. By other animals. Frogs contained in glasses climb up their sides ; the glowworms fly about in great numbers in the evening ; insects and flies play in the air after sunset; the bat appears late; the spiders spin tranquilly, and extend their nets to a distance. Indications of rain by birds. When the large black sea-mew, the cormorants, aquatic birds, and birds generally, go to the rivers and water, and bathe nosily; ducks, geese, and moorhens plunge into the water, flapping it about with much noise; wild geese fly high in the air, and in disorder; the plovers become restless, flying here and there, and uttering their peculiar cry ; the ravens and the rooks assemble in groups, and then almost immediately separate; the ravens in tiie morning, and the rooks in the evening, utter continual cries, and walk solitarily on the ground ; the swallows fly low in the air. Domestic bii'ds rub themselves iu the dust; partridges, pigeons, and smaller birds bathe themselves in the sand; the cock crows immediately after sunset (when, on the contrary, the cock walks about during rain it