EIC RIO [ 398 ] and when nearly cold add the well beaten yolks of six, and the whites of two eggs, with a tea- cupful of sweet wine or a glass of spirits ; put it into a buttered dish, and bake it for three quarters of an hour, or for one hour in a Dutch oven, in the same way as a marrow pudding is done. Any sort of preserve may be put into the dish, and a sweet sauce may be served with it. EICE, GROUND (8). Boil in a pint of milk ^ lb. of flour of rice, with two table-spoonsful of rose water and half the peel of a lemon; stir it till thick, take it off the fire, and mix J lb. of butter, half a grated nutmeg, the well-beaten yolks of four, and the whites of three eggs ; sweeten it with brown sugar, pick out the lemon-peel, and boil it in a buttered basin, which must be completely filled. Serve with a sauce made with a glass of white wine boiled in melted butter, and sweetened with brown sugar. EICE, GROUND (without Eggs). Weigh 6 ozs. of rice, 6 ozs. of brown sugar, and 3^ ozs. of fresh butter; break the butter into small bits, wash the rice in several waters, put all into a pudding dish, and fill it up with good, milk : let it soak some hours. Bake it in a moderate oven for nearly two hours, and as the milk wastes fill up the dish with more till the rice be swelled and soft; then let it brown. RICE JELLY. Boil 4 ozs. of rice flour, with I lb. of lump sugar, in a quart of water till the whole becomes glutinous; then strain off the jelly, and set it to cool. This is very nutritious for weak stomachs. RICE MILK. Allow 1 oz. of rice for each person ; wash it thoroughly in warm water; set some milk on the fire, and when it boils put in the rice; continue to boil it over a slow fire, stirring often for two or three hours; add salt and sugar according to taste, and cinnamon. RICE AND MILK. To every quart of good milk allow 2 ozs. of good rice; wash it well in several waters; put it with the milk into a closely covered saucepan, and set it over a slow fire. When it boils take it off, let it stand till it be cold, simmer it about an hour and a quarter before sending it to table, and serve in a tureen. RICE MUFFINS. Pour a quart of milk on four heaped spoonsful of rice flour, stir it well, and put in a little salt and wheat flour to make it a proper thickness, two eggs, and two spoonsful of yeast. Allow it four hours to rise, and bake in rings; or thin it, and bake as batter RICE PANCAKES.' Boil ilb. of rice in a small quantity of water until quite a jelly. As soon as it is cold mix with it a pint of cream, eight eggs, and a little salt and nutmeg. Make 8 ozs. of butter iust warm, and stir it .with the rest, adding to the whole as much butter as will make the batter thick enough. The pancakes must be fried in as small a quantity of lard as possible. RICE PASTE. Rub 3 ozs. of butter well into i lb. of ground lice, moisten it with water, and roll it out with a little flour. RICE PIE. Pick clean a quart of rice, and wash it well through two or three waters; tie it in a cloth, put it into a pot of boihug water, and boil it till perfectly soft; then drain and press it as diy as possible, and mix with it 2 ozs. of fresh butter and two table-spoonsful of mild grated cheese. Take a small tin butter kettle, wet the inside, put in the rice, and set it in a cool place till quite cold; then turn it carefully out of the kettle, of which it will retain the form, rub it over with the beaten yolk of an egg, and set it in an oven till lightly browned. Cut out from the top of the mass of rice an oval lid, about two inches from the edge, so as to leave a flat rim or border all round ; then excavate the mould of rice, leaving a standing crust all round, and at the bottom about two inches thick. Have ready some hot stewed oysters, or birds, or brown or white fricassee; fill up the pie with it, adding the gravy; lay on the lid, and decorate it with green curled sprigs of parsley, stuck in all round the crack where the lid is put on. The pie may be filled with curried chickens. RICE POUND CAKE. Weigh lib. of broken-up loaf sugar of the best quality; upon some of the largest lumps rub off the yellow rind of three ripe large lemons that have been previously rolled on your hand on a table to increase the juice ; then powder finely all the pound of sugar. Cut up into a deep pan 1 lb. of the best fresh butter, mix with it the powdered sugar, and stir them together with a wooden spoon till perfectly light. Squeeze the juice of the lemons through a strainer into a bowl, mix it with half a grated nutmeg, and add it to the butter and sugar. Sift 1 lb. (or a quart) of rice flour into a pan, and in another shallow pan beat twelve eggs till they are smooth and thick; then stir the beaten egg and the rice flour alternately into the butter and sugar, a little at a tiuie of each. Having stirred the whole long and hard, put the mixture into a buttered tin pan that has straight or upright sides, set it immediately in a well heated oven, and bake it thoroughly. It will require five hours in proportion to its thickness When done it will shrink a little from the sides of the pan, and a twig from a corn broom or a wooden skewer, plunged down to the bottom of the cake, will come out dry and clean. When cool ice it, adding a little rose water or lemon juice to the icing. Heap the icing first on