JET C 01 3 JEL jelly, add the whites of six eggs beaten to a froth, boil the whole up, and strain it through a flannel bag. Pour it into small high glasses, and run each colour as thick as a finger, each colour being thoroughly cold before another is poured on, which must be only lukewarm, or they will mix together. Red may be made with cochineal, green with spinach, yellow with saffron, blue with syrup of violets, and white with thick cream. The plain jelly itseK may be used as a cream. JELLY, RUSSIAN. Clarify f lb. of sugar and 2 ozs. of isinglass; put them together into an earthen pan, which place on ice; add to it the juice of two lemons and four small glasses of kirschwasser; then take a whisk, and beat it up over the ice till it becomes as white as beaten egg. The moment it gets firm put it into a mould, and finish the jelly in the usual way. JELLY, SAGO. Soak a large spoonful of sago in cold water for an hour, then pour off the water, substitute a pint of fresh, and stew it gently till reduced to about half the quantity. When done pour it into a basin, and let it cool. JELLY, SAVOURY. Take off aU the scum from the cold liquor that either poultry or meat has been braised in, or some veal stock, and make it warm; strain it through a sieve into a stewpan, and season it to the palate with salt, lemon pickle, Cayenne pepper, and tarragon or plain vinegar ; add sufficient dissolved isin- glass to make it of a proper stiffness, whisk in plenty of whites of eggs, a small quantity of the yolks and shells, and just colour it; set it over the fire, and let it boil; then simmer it for a quarter of an hour, and run it through a jelly bag several times till bright and fine. JELLY, SAVOURY (to put over Cold Pies). It should be made either of a small bare knuckle of leg or shoulder of veal, or a piece of scrag of mutton ; or, if the pie is made of fowl or rabbits, the carcasses, necks, or heads, added to any piece of meat, wUl be sufficient, observing to give consistence with cow-heel or shanks of mutton. Put the meat, with a slice of ham or bacon, a bundle of different herbs, two blades of mace, an onion or two, a small bit of lemon-peel, and a tea-spoonful of Jamaica pepper bruised, the same quantity of whole pepper, and three pints of water, into a stewpan that shuts very closely. When it boils skim it well, and let it simmer slowly till quite strong ; strain it, and when cold take off all the fat you possibly can with a spoon; then, to remove every particle of grease, lay a clean piece of blotting paper on. If, when it is cold, it is not clear, boil it a few minutes with the whites of two eggs (^but 'do not add the sediment), and pour it through a fine sieve, with a napkin in it, which should be previously dipped in hot water to prevent waste. JELLY, SHANK. Soak twelve ehanks of mutton four hours, cleanse them thoroughly, and put them into a saucepan, with three blades of mace, an onion, some peppercorns, sweet herbs, and a crust of bread toasted; put thereon three quarts of water, and set the pan (covered) on a hot hearth. Simmer gently five hours, strain off the jelly, and put it by in a cool place. A pound of beef may be added with advantage. JELLY, WHIPPED. Make a Jelly Prin- TANiEEE, pour about a quarter of it into a mould, and ice it as therein directed; then take away the mould, and place a basin in its stead, in which put the remainder of the jelly, and whip with a whisk, as you would eggs, until the globules are no bigger than a pin's head ; pour it into the mould, and replace it on the ice for three quarters of an hour, after which turn it out as usual. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES are dressed as other white vegetables; but they are no way so good as roasted, and served in a napkin with melted butter. They take very little stewing or boiling. They may be cut into bottoms, and if not overdone they answer very well. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES, CROU- STADES OF. Make a firm paste with yolk of egg, milk, sugar, salt, and flour; work and make it extremely smooth and tough by roUing; choose the artichokes of one size, and as near the same form as possible; mould the paste thinly round them, and cut the top off with a sharp knife; orna- ment them round the mouth, cut out a round with a border to fall over, and cut the si2;e of a shilling out of the middle ; egg the croustades, and lay them over small tops of puff paste; or the croustades may be made the long way, and the tops moulded to appear like the artichoke. When ready scoop out part of the artichoke, put in a bit of nice fresh butter seasoned with mace and salt, and finish as Potato Croustades. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKE TARTS are done the same as Spinach Tarts, only they may be covered with paste, or with butter and egg, sugared, and stuck over with citron and almonds. JESUIT'S DROPS. See Fells' Balsam. JET. A black inflammable concrete, which becomes electrical by friction, attracts light substances in the same manner as amber, and when burning emits a bituminous smell. It has the graui of wood, is but moderately hard, and splits most easily in a horizontal direction. Jet is always found in detached masses, lodged in other strata. It aboimds nowhere so plentifully as in England, being very common in Yorkshire and other northern counties, though it is also discovered in many clay-pits about London. Ireland, Sweden, Prussia,