SO A SNU US ] gency and colour. The dry snuffs, especially Welsk, are commonly adulterated with quick- lime, the particles of which may often be dis- tinguished by the naked eye. This addition causes its biting and desiccating effect on the pituitary membrane. Scotch, Irish, Welsh, and ■ Spanish snuff, Lundiifoot, &c., are examples of the DRY SNOFFS, AmOUg MOIST SNUFFS, Or RAPPEES, hroivn, black, Cuba, carotte, &c., may be men- tioned. Hardham's mixture. No. 37, is a mixed rappee ; and Prince's mixture, princeza, &c., are scented rappees. The Scotch, Irish, and, in fact, most of the ordinary snuffs of the shops, are pi'epared from the midribs and waste pieces, but the Strashurgh, French, Russian, and Ma- couba snuffs from the soft parts of the leaves. The immense variety of snuffs kept in the shops depend for their distinguishing charac- teristics on the length of the fermentation, the fineness of the powder, the height to which they are dried, and the addition of odorous Biibstances. Among some of the most esteemed IVeuch snuffs are the following :— Tabac de Cedrat, Bergamotte, and Neroli fire made by adding the essences to the snuff. Tabac Parfumee aux Fledrs, by putting orange flowers, jasmines, tuberoses, musk roses, or common roses, to the snuff in a close chest or jar, sifting them out after twenty-four hours, and repeating the infusion with fresh flowers as necessary. Another way is to lay paper pricked all over with a large pin between the flowers and the snuff. Tabac Musque. Any scented snuff, 1 lb. ; musk (ground to a powder with white sugar, and moistened with ammonia water), 20 grains. Mix. Tabac Ambre. Tabac aux fleurs, 1 lb.; am- bergris (powdered as last), 24 grains. Tabac en Odeur de Malthe. Tabac de neroli, lib.; ambergris, 20 grains; civet, 10 grains ; sugar, sufficient quantity. Tabac a la Pointe d'Espagne. 'Snuff aux fleurs, 1 lb.; musk, 20 grains ; civet, 6 grains ; Bugar, sufficient quantity. Tabac en Odeur de Rome. Snuff aux fleurs, 1 lb.; ambergris, 20 grains; musk, 6 grains; civet, 5 grains; sugar, sufficient quantity. Tabac de Pongibou. Yellow snuff scented with orange flowers, 1 lb.; civet, 12 grains; sugar, sufficient quantity; essence of orange flowers, 2 to 4 drachms. Other essences may be used, the snuff having been previously scented with the same flowers. Tabac fin FA90N d'Espagne. Red snuff perfumed with flowers. Macouba Snuff is imitated by moistening the tobacco with a mixture of treacle and water, and allowing it to ferment well. Spanish Snuff Unsifted Havannah snuff, ground and reduced by adding ground Spanish nut-shells, sprinkling the mixture with treacle water, and allowing it to sweat for some days before packing. Most of the imitations of foreign snuff require to be well packed to give them a good appearance. Yellow Snuff. Yellow ochre the size of an egg, add chalk to lower the colour, and grind with 4 drachms of oil of almonds till fine; then add water by degrees, and two spoonsful of mucilage of tragacanth till you have about a quart; mix this with a suEScient quantity of purified snuff, and dry it; then grind some gum tragacanth with some scented water, and moisten your snuff with it, and when dry with a very fine sieve sift out the colour that does not adhere to the snuff. Red Snuff. As last, but use ochre. Eye Snuff. Subsulphate of mercury, \ drachm; dry Scotch snuff or Lundyfoot, 1 oz.; triturate well together. A pinch of this occasionally in inflammation of the eyes, dim- ness of sight, headache, &c. SNUFF, CEPHALIC. See Asarabacca Snuff. SOAP. Potash and soda cannot be ad- vantageously employed in making soap till they are deprived of the carbonic acid and the earthy matters with winch, as they are commonly obtained in commerce, they are combined. The process by which this is effected is as follows :— Into a vessel or cistern about eight feet square, and one foot deep, is introduced quicklime in the proportion of one-fifth of the weight of oil in- tended to be converted into soap ; water is slightly sprinkled over the lime, when it be- comes hot, and falls into powder, after which the soda or barilla, previously pounded, must be carefully mixed with it by means of a shovel. In order to favour the operation a little water is occasionally added. As soon as the mixture is accomplished it is transferred into tubs. In small establishments the vessels are made of white wood, but in those which are on a larger scale they are composed of stone lined witli bricks, and sunk into mortar made of pozzuolana or similar earths. These cisterns are usually about five feet by four, and one and a half in depth. They are perforated at the lower pait of the side next the work-house with two holes, which are closed by stop-cocks or pegs of wood. Under each of these vessels are reservoirs con- structed with the same care, and intended for the reception and preservation of the lyes. "When the lime and soda are transferred to the tub, or to the cisterns, a quantity of water is poured on the mixture, sufficient to cover it to the height of about a foot and a half. After leaving the water in this state for several hours it is drawn off into one of the reservoirs. This