VEN [ 533 ] caution, such as flannel next the skin and suitable wraps, we are persuaded that air—the cool, pure, balmy air—would never be injurious. Air is the verj^ life of man. How can it be dan- gerous to breathe it in its sweetness in any case ? We are apt to fancy that air will do us harm, and thei'eby preclude ourselves from what is really almost a medicine in itself. We know persons singularly exempt from colds—in fact, who never suffer from them—whose houses ai'e cold, exposed to winds from the north and east, and whose rooms and passages are full of draughts, so that chilly and sensitive people could scarcely exist in them. We do not re- commend any one thoughtlessly to plunge into the other extreme when accustomed to warmth and care; but we cannot help feeling strongly that immense benefit would be found in accus- toming ourselves to cooler rooms, cooler houses, and more fearless exposure to the air. Even in winter windows should be opened during part of the day, except in wet weather, as it is never wholesome to admit damp air; and, whenever the family leave their sitting-room, the window should be thrown open, to cool and refresh the apartment while unoccupied. Low rooms re- quire particular care in ventilation—small ones the same. In lofty and good-sized rooms there is less need to be so very careful; still, a change of atmosphere is always desirable, and never unwholesome. Ill towns, where houses are high, and con- fined in their arrangement, it is highly necessary to attend to ventilation, and to prevent all accumulations in the lower departments that would cause impure air and offensive smells, as the whole house will feel the influence of them, and the comfort, and even health, of the inmates be interrupted. People are little aware from what simple causes serious effects arise. Some of our readers will, no doubt, remember having perceived very unpleasant effluvia on the doors of town residences being opened. What can be more unwholesome to those who are perpetually breathing within those houses, particularly v/hen windows are kept closed, and there is no escape for the noxious gas? The subject of cleanliness belongs to another branch of house- hold management; but we may here observe that to want of attention on this important point much unhealthiness may be attributed, and that a strict regard to it will often be the human means of preserving a household in health and comfort. Many persons are in the habit of pasting paper over the crevices of their windows in winter, or stuffing them with tow, to exclude draughts. If the apertures are unnecessarily wide some precaution may be desirable, but this is seldom the case; and, in a general way, the total exclusion of external air becomes stifling and unwholesome. Every room should contain a fireplace, if only for the purpose of obtaining a free circulation of air. No bedroom should be without one, as a confined atmosphere during the night is ex- tremely prejudicial to health, particularly when surrounded with drawn curtains and closed window-shutters. If a grate is not required, the open space is by no means objectionable if kept clean and properly blacked, and not allowed to harbour dust and cobwebs. We have seen open chimneys of this kind in bedrooms, and therefore speak from observation. The floor of the room, within the chimney, must be bricked, so as to be pretty safe, and then a wood fire can at any time be lighted if necessary; but the chimney itself is of great consequence in a sleeping-room. If a chimney cannot possibly be contrived, some other means must absolutely be resorted to for this purpose ; and sliding panels in the upper part of the door will be of some use, and can be made without much expense. In lattice windows we have seen one pane con- structed to open like a door, which admits a current when the whole window is not I'equired to be thrown open. It might be possible to contrive this plan iu a sash-window, which would be better than making an opening in the door, because the air admitted would be fresher and more wholesome. In the cottages of the poor the upper rooms are usually dreadfully close. One little window, so small that the head can scarcely pass through it, is all they generally contain ; and iu summer the oppres- sion is intense when sickness occurs, aggra- vating the disease and the trials of the sufferer. How often we see the gasping restlessness of fever in the close sick room of the cottage, which the narrow, deep-set lattice cannot alle- viate ! And when three or four persons inhabit the same apartment, how can a landlord suppose it possible they can live and thrive? Especial care should be taken-, when building or renting houses, that they possess thorough ventilation. A continual change of the air by opening the doors, and occasionally the windows, however advisable, is yet not sufficient to preserve a salubrious atmosphere in an apartment. For this important purpose the following improve- ments may be suggested as useful:—First, small apertures in the ceiling of the room, or through the walls, close to the ceiling, in an oblique direction, so that the rain and snow cannot penetrate. Secondly, a number of small holes may be made in the uppermost part of the window-frames; into these holes place from without an equal number of funnels, presenting an aperture of nine or twelve inches diameter, and terminating in the inside almost iu a point,