MER [ 905 ] MER your last cup of tea morning and evening. As the virtue lies in the hyssop, those who take this for tea, instead of the tea of the shops, will, we have no doubt, find its advantage. MERCURY, or Quicksilver, is a metal some of the preparations of which are eminently powerful in promoting perspiration. We may as well combine our notes relative to it both as a metal and the base of medicinal preparations. Mercury, or hydragyros, was known to the Romans, and Pliny describes it as " like silver in colour, and like water in fluidity," when ex- tracted by heat from "minium," well known to us as cinnabar. This minium was then, as it still is, obtained from the mines of Almaden, in Spain; but our chief supply at present is from South America. The quicksilver mine of Guanca Velica, in Peru, is 170 fathoms in circumference, and 480 deep. In this profound abyss are seen streets, squares, and a chapel where religious mysteries on all festivals are celebrated. Thousands of flambeaux are continually burning to enlighten it. The mine generally affects with convulsions those who work in it. Notwithstanding this, the unfortunate victims of an insatiable avarice are crowded together, and plunged naked into these abysses, tyranny having invented this refinement in cruelty to render it impossible for anything to escape its restless vigilance. We see mercury always in a fluid state, because it is so very fusible that a small portion of heat is able to keep it in a state of fluidity; but it is as perfectly opaque as other metals. All metals require different portions of heat to fuse them. Tin melts at 442° and lead at 612° of Fahrenheit; whereas gold requires the heat of 32° of Wedgewood, or 1300° of Fahrenheit, to melt it; and platina cannot be fused by the strongest heat of our best furnaces. Mercury, when submitted to a sufficient degree of cold, is similar in appearance to other metals, and may be beaten into plates. It had been imagined that the liquid state of mercury was essential to it. The contrary was discovered by accident in the year 1759 by Professor Braun, of Petersburg. Being engaged in experiments on the power of freezing mix- tures, and having perceived that one of his thermometers was stationary even after he re- moved it from the mixture, he broke the bulb of the thermometer, and found the mercury completely congealed. Mercury is so volatile that it may he distilled like water. It is sometimes purified in this way from a mixture of other metals, it being often adulterated with lead and bismuth. There is no better way of ascertaining the purity of mercury than by mixing it with an equal weight of iron tilings, and submitting it to distillation. It is also so elastic when in a state of vapour that it is capable of bursting the strongest vessels. M. Hellot, of the Academy of Sciences, was present when a person pretending to fix mer- cury had inclosed some of it in an iron box closely welded. When the mercury was heated it burst the iron, and was dissipated in invisible vapours. The beautiful scarlet pigment called ver- milion is prepared from mercury. It is the red sulphuret of mercury. Europe has hitherto been furnished with it by the Dutch manufac- turers, and of greater beauty than any which has been procured from other markets, though it is said that even this article is infeiior in splendour to that which is manufactured in China. What is imported from thence comes in small papers, and is nearly of the colour of fine lake. Several salts are formed by art with this metal for medicinal purposes, viz., Eeysers pill, which is an acetate of mercury; turbith mineral, a subsulphate of mercury; red precipitate, or oxide by means of the nitric acid; calomel, or mild subchloride of mercury; and corrosive sublimate, which is a chloride. Besides these there is a preparation called precipitate per se, which is a true oxide of the metal; and Ethiops mineral and cinnabar, which are both combina- tions of mercury with sulphur. Sometimes in cases of stoppages in the bowels mercury is administered in its metallic state, in the hope that it will force a passage by its weight. MERIDIAN LINE. It is absolutely neces- sary to find this exactly when fixing a horizon- tal sundial, and the following is a very simple mode :— Let the plane of the pedestal on which the dial is to be fixed be made truly horizontal by a level; then from a point as near the middle as possible describe three or four concentric circles, about a quarter of an inch asunder, making the outermost circle a little less than the plane of the pedestal. Fix a pin or wire perpendicularly in the centre, of such a height that the whole of the shadow may fall within the innermost circle for about two hours before and after noon. The pin in thickness to be about one-eighth of an inch, with a round blunt point at the top. The pin may easily be known when perpendicular by setting one leg of a pair of compasses in several points of a circle, and extending the other to the top of the pin : if the same extent reaches the point from all the places the pin is truly perpendicular. From about eight o'clock in the morning till four o'clock in the afternoon, during which houi-s the extremity of the pin's shadow will fall with- out all the circles, watch the times in the fore-