SAL SAL [ 410 ] to that of an olive, are slightly transparent, and of a horny colour. They are very difficult to pulvei'ise, and, to facilitate the operation, they should be soaked in cold water till they become Boft, and then rapidly dried. When reduced to powder it is dissolved like other fecula in water, milk, or broth, requiring sixty parts of liquid to one of fecula. It is employed, in the East particularly, as a restorative and powerful ana- leptic against weakness of the forces. In Poland the decoction of salep is the drink used in almost all diseases. It is highly nutritive, and ma.j be used for the same purposes as sago, tapioca, and arrowroot. Dr. O'Shaughnessy states that 2 drachms afford a sufficient meal for an invalid. Good salep, carefully prepared, is, in truth, one of the best articles of diet a 'convalescent can use. In India the salep of Cashmere is reckoned the best, and is obtained chiefly at the Hurdwar fail', from the Cashmere merchants. Dr. Royle considers the plant that yields Cashmere salep is a Eulophia. 0. morio {meadoio orchis, female fool's - stones) and 0. militaris {man orchis) both natives of Britain, also supply salep equal in quality to that obtained from 0. mascula; and it has been sug- gested that the substance might be profitably made in this country. In the " Philosophical Transactions," vol. lix., p. I, Mr. Moult de- scribes the method of making it. He says the best time to gather the tubers is when the seed is formed and the stalk is going to fall, for thon the new bulb, of which salep is made, has arrived at its full size. The new roots are washed in water, the outer skin removed, and then set on a tin plate in an oven heated to the degree of a bread oven. In six, eight, or ten minutes they will have acquired a ti'ans- parency like horn, without being diminished in size; they are thus to be removed into a room to dry and harden, which will be done in a few days, or they may be finished in a slow heat in a few hours. In North America salep is obtained from a species of Habenaria. SALERATUS is the name given by the Americans to the bicarbonate of potash, and is much used in American cookery instead of the carbonate of soda, to which it is much superior and more wholesome. • SALERATUS BISCUITS. Warm a quart of sweet milk, and put in it half a spoonful of saleratus. a heaped spoonful of lard or butter, and half a spoonful of salt; pour this in as much stiff flour as- will make a dough, and work it a quarter of an hour. Mould and bake them as other biscuits. SALERATUS CAKE. Warm a pint of buttermilk, put in it a tea-spoonful of powdered saleratus, and a piece of lard the size of an egg, stir it into flour till it is of a soft dough, roll it out, and hake it on tue gi-idaie, or in an iron oven. If you have no sour milk put a tea-spoonful of vinegar in sweet milk. SALINE DRAUGHT. See Effervescixg Draught. SALLY LUNNS. Take three quarts of dried flour, half a cupful of yeast, \ lb. of butter melted in a sufficient quantity of milk to dis- solve it, the yolks of three eggs, and a little salt; make these ingredients into a light dough, let it stand before the fire (covered) for an hour to rise, and bake it in a quick oven. The above may be made into small cakes. See Cakes, Sai.lt Lunn. SALMAGUNDI. This is a very pretty small dish if in nice shape, and if the colours of the iugi-edients are varied. For this purpose chop separately the white part of a cold chicken or veal, the yolks of four or five eggs and the same number of whites, a large handful of parsley, six anchovies, some beet-root, some pickled red cabbage, ham, and grated tongue, or any- thing well flavoured or of a good colour. Put a saucer or a china basin into a round dish, or a smaller dish into a long one ; then make rows round it, wide at the bottom, and growing smaller towards the top, making choice of such of the ingredients for each row as will most vary the colour, spun butter at the top, or butter worked into what form is liked, or a little sprig of curled parsley may be stuck in. You need net, unless you please, put anything in the dish, as the-salmagundi may be laid in rows, or put into the half whites of eggs, which may be made to stand upright by cutting off a little bit at the round end. In the latter case each half egg has one ingredient. Curled butter and parsley may be put as garnish between. SALMON. When salmon is fresh and good the gills and flesh are of a bright red, the scales clear, and the whole fish is stiff. When just killed there is a whiteness between the flakes, which gives it great fii-mness: by keeping this melts down, and the fish becomes richer. SALMON- To Boil. Put into the kettle spring water enough to cover the fish, but boil the liver in a separate saucepan. When the water in the kettle boils put in a handful of salt, and take off the scum as soon and as fast as it rises ; then lay in the salmon, first cleans- ing and scraping it, and if it is thick let it boil gently for the space of about fifteen minutes to a pound. If some horseradish is added while boiling it will improve the flavour. Serve up with lobster, anchovy, or shrimp sauce. SALMON : To " Carve. One part of a salmon is much fatter and richer than the other. It is common, therefore, to give to those who like both a thin slice of each: for the one cut