MUL [ 223 ] water, two spoonsful of yeast, and 3 lbs. of flour ; Leat it well for half an hour, and let it stand an hour or two. Bake the mufBns on an iron baking stone, rubbing it well over with mutton suet as often as they are laid on. As soon as they begin to colour turn them : they will be suffi- ciently baked when coloured on both sides. MUFFINS OF BOILED MILK. Boil a quart of new milk, and pour it boiling hot on as much flour as will make a thick batter; put in a table-spoonful of butter, the same of lard, two tea-spoonsful of salt, half a tea-cupful of yeast, and one egg beaten; allow the mixture to rise from six to eight hours, and when perfectly light set it in a cool place till you are ready to bake, when you may use rings or not as you please ; but be sure, if you do, to butter the rings. MUFFINS OF COLD WATER. Sift a quart of flour, add to it a little salt, a large spoonful of yeast, and beat the white of a fresh egg to a froth. After mixing the flour up with cold water into a soft dough, add the egg, and set it in a moderately warm place. Next morning beat it well with a spoon, and put it on the bake iron in round cakes. When one side is nicely Drown turn them, keep them hot till sent to lable, and split and butter them. If you wish to have muffins for tea they should be made up early in the morning. MUFFINS OF CREAM. Take a quart of sour cream, two eggs well beaten, and a tea- spoonful of salt. Stir the eggs into the cream gradually, add sifted flour enough to make a thick batter, dissolve a tea-spoonful of bicar- bonate of potass in as much vinegar as will cover it, and stir it in at the last. Bake in small cakes on the griddle, or in muffin rings in the dripping-pan of a stove. MUFFINS, MANSFIELD. Take a quart of milk, three eggs, i lb. of butter or lard, a tea- cupful of yeast, and flour enough to make a soft dough. Beat the whites of the eggs alone, the yolks with the milk; melt the butter, and stir it in after all is mixed. Bake them in rings or in round cakes on the griddle. Split and butter them before sending to table. MUFFINS OF RICE. Pour a quart of milk on four heaped spoonsful of rice flour, stir well, and put in a little salt and wheat flour to make it a proper consistence, two eggs, and two spoonsful of yeast. Allow it four hours to rise, and bake in rings; or thin it, and bake as MUFFINS, SMITH. Boll a quart of new milk, have 3 lbs. of flour, three eggs well beaten, -J lb. of lard, and a table-spoonful of salt. Rub the lard in the flour, and while the milk is still warm, but not hot, stir it in the flour; put in the eggs and a tea-cupful of good yeast. Beat all well, and set the mixture in a warm place to rise. When light it should be set in a cool place till you are ready to bake the muffins, which should be in round cakes or rings on the bake iron, in a Dutch oven, or the dripping-pan of a stove. Butter them just as you send them to table. If the batter is put in a cold place it will keep good for two days in winter. Before baking muffins, or any other kind of light cakes, taste the batter, and if it is at all sour put in a small portion of bicarbonate of potash, previously dissolved in hot water. In this way superior muffins may be made. MUFFINS, MUSH. Make a quart of mush, put into it a lump of butter or lard the size of two eggs, and a little salt. Previously to making the mush have ready a pint of light yeast rising, stir into it a pint of new milk and the mush, with as much wheat flour as will make it a very thick batter. Let it rise four or five horn's, and when light set it in a cold place till you are ready to bake. Dip a spoon in water each time, and put the batter on the griddle in small cakes, or bake in rings. You may make it a little stiffer, and roll it out to bake in large cakes. If it should be sour put in a little bicar- bonate of potash. If you have no milk water will do instead. They will be nice toasted. MUFFINS, YORKSHIRE. Take 2 lbs. of flour with a little salt, warm a pint of new milk, mix a part of it with four large spoonsful of fresh yeast, and melt 2 ozs. of butter in the remainder. Put it in the flour with two well-beaten eggs, and when the yeast is settled add it to the flour, and mix all well together. Beat the dough with a wooden spoon twenty minutes, make it up into balls on a board well dredged, lay a cloth in a tray on the hearth, dredge it well with flour, and as you make them up lay them on at a proper distance from each other, in order that they may not run together in rising; cover them with a cloth, and in about twenty minutes have your tins hot; lay them on quickly, and shape them a little with your fingers. Bake them in a quick oven, and watch them well. A tea-spoonful of bicarbonate of potash, dissolved in a little of the milk, and mixed up with the dough, adds much to the lightness, and is a wholesome addition. MULBERRIES : To Preserve. Put the fruit into a preserving-pan, and draw from it, over the fire, a pint of juice. Take 3 lbs. of pounded sugar, wet it with the juice, then boil it up, skim it, and put in 2 lbs. of ripe mulberries ; let them stand in the syrup till warm through, and then set them on the fire to boil gently. When lialf done put them by in the syrup till next day, then-boil them as before, and when the syrup is thick, and will stand in round drops on becoming cold, they may be put into pots for use.