NEC [ 247 ] NEA meat small -with an equal quantity of beef suet; season with salt, cinnamon, and sugar; mince i lb. of orange-peel very fine; put in two handsful of grated bread, six or eight eggs, and currants at pleasure. Mix all these well to- gether; butter a pudding-bag, put in your pudding, tie it up closely, and let it boil two hours. Serve with sweet sauce. NEAT'S TONGUE IN CAUL. Boil a tongue sufficiently to peel, then lard it, and split it without separating it in two. Fry some sliced onions in fresh hog's lard; put to them two or three spoonsful of hog's blood, about ^ lb. of lard chopped, a few fine spices, and salt. Simmer these, stirring continually until the blood is well mixed. Lay a caul in the bottom of your dish, and spread upon it part of this preparation; then place in the tongue, and cover it with the remainder ; roll it up in the caul, and garnish the dish with bread crumbs. Lastly, put it into the oven to bake, and to take a good colour; clean the dish free from fat, and serve the tongue under a sauce made with a little cullis, jelly broth, and lemon. NEAT'S TONGUE, FRIED. Boil it, then cut it into thin slices, and season with nutmeg, cinnamon, and sugar. Dip the slices of tongue into yolks of eggs, adding a little lemon juice. Make some butter very hot in a frying-pan, fry your tongue, pour the eggs in by spoonsful, and when they are done serve them up with white wine, butter, and sugar, well beaten to- gether. NEAT'S TONGUE PIE. Scald a tongue, boil it in plain water, and when almost done peel and cut it into slices. Make what paste you please; put the slices of tongue upon it, with pepper and salt, two good slices of ham, a bunch of parsley, a clove of garlic, three heads of cloves, thyme, and a bay leaf; cover with slices of bacon and butter, and put the pie in the oven to bake. When done take out the bacon and parsley ; skim the fat off very clean, and add a Spanish sauce, or any other that you may think better. NEAT'S TONGUE RAGOUT. Lard a tongue with large lardons, and braise it in a little braise, with broth, a bunch of parsley, thyme, a bay leaf, two heads of cloves, one of garlic, onions, and roots. Peel it, and split it in two ; serve upon it what ragout you think pro^ per, such as sweetbreads, truffles, mushrooms, small onions, &c. NEAT'S TONGUE, EOASTED. Scald a tongue, parboil it in broth or water, with salt and pepper, two onions, carrots, parsnips, two cloves, garlic, a bay leaf, and thyme, When boiled enough to peel take it out, lard it as a fricandeau, and finish it in roasting. Serve under it a relishing sauce, or send it up plain. NEAT'S TONGUE, ROASTED (the Fbench Manner). Boil a neat's tongue, blanch it, and set it by till it is cold; then cut a hole in the under part, and take out the meat; mince it with two or three hard eggs, an apple, beef suet, and bacon; season with salt, beaten ginger, and sweet herbs shred very fine. Stuff the tongue with this forcemeat, then cover the end with a veal caul, lard it with bacon, and roast it. Serve with a sauce made of gravy, butter, and the juice of oranges. Garnish the dish with sliced lemon-peel and barberries. NEAT'S TONGUE WITH TRUFFLES. Boil a pickled neat's tongue two hours, take off the skin, and let it remain till cool; then cut a large incision in the under part, and fill it with light forcemeat, having some green truffles pounded in it; sew it up, trim it neatly, rub it over with yolk of egg, and cover it with paste made with beef marrow instead of butter. After- wards wash the paste over with white of egg, ornament it in the same manner as a raised pie with the remaining part of the paste ; then bake it till tender in a moderately heated oven, and serve it up with truffle sauce under ; or it may be served with stewed spinach or turnips. NEATS' TONGUES, PICKLED. Takr neats' tongues that look red out of the pickle, cut off the roots, and let them boil till the skin will come off easily; season them with salt, pepper, cloves, and nutmeg, rubbing them well into the tongues while they are hot; then put them into a pan, cover them with melted butter and bake them. When they are done pour off all the butter, keep back the gravy, put them into a fresh pan, and cover them with more butter an inch thick. NECK, DERBYSHIRE. This disease is marked by a tumour on the fore part of the neck, between the windpipe and skin. Although it is a common disease in Derbyshire, it is by no means of frequent occurrence in other parts of our island. It is known by the name of the goitre among the mountains of the Alps, Savoy, and Piedmont, where it prevails to a most hideous extent. It has been attributed to the use of the snow water running down into the valleys from the mountains. A tincture of iodine rubbed into the swelling has proved suc- cessful in these tumours. Burnt sponge made into lozenges, and suffered to dissolve gradually under the tongue, as an internal medicine, has been employed with some degree of success, e.g. .•—Take burnt sponge, 6 drachms ; powder of gum arable, 1 drachm; powdered ginger, \ drachm; common syrup, enough to form the mass. To be divided into twelve lozenges, one of which is to be used as above directed. NECK, STIFF. Warm fomentations, even of very hot water, applied by flannels dipped