SAL SAL [ il3 ] brown paper; tie down closely, and put them into a moderate oven, or after the bread is drawn ; leave them to soak for four hours, let them cool, pour off the butter, and pack them into proper packing pans as closely as possible, with their bellies down: they should be only one deep. Have the sizes equal, so that they may pack smoothly; press them gently together, smooth them over, and when perfectly cold cover them deeply with butter, and when it cools put them away. Herrings, to pass for trout, must be reddened with cochineal. ' Send the potted fish to table in the potted pans. Boil up the juice with wine or catsup for fish sauce. Serve any of these potted fishes in a rich wine stock and butter sauce very hot; but the fish must not boil. These diff'erent potted fishes are often stored in families, who hoard them up for occasions to serve them cold, and never think of serving them in rich hot sauces when they are even in want of variety. SALMON, ROLLED. Take half a salmon, bone it, cut off the head, scale, and wash it; make a forcemeat with oysters, crumbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace ; put this to the salmon, and roll it up tightly; put it into a very deep dish, and set it to bake in a quick oven. Serve with anchovy or shrimp sauce poured over. SALMON, SALAD OF. Put into a saucepan four dessert-spoonsful of vinegar, two of liquid jelly, ten of oil, a minced ravigote, salt, and pepper; cut a boiled salmon in pieces, and put them into the above sauce to colour them. When cold lay them on a dish, and pour the sauce over. SALOOP. Boil a little water, wine, lemon- peel, and sugar together; then mix with a small quantity of the powder, previously rubbed smooth in a little cold water; stir the whole well together, and boil for a few minutes. SALPICON OMELETS. Whip up a dozen eggs, and fry half the number as usual in butter; then lay the omelet in a dish; spread a salpicon, composed of carp roes, livers, &c., of fish, all over it; make a second omelet of the remaining eggs, lay it on the salpicon, and serve with any sauce you please. SALPICON TOAST. Make a salpicon with veal sweetbreads, morels, artichoke bot- toms, and a slice of streaked bacon, all cut into dice; put them into a stewpan, with some veal or fowl gravy ; set the pan on the fire, and then thicken the salpicon with the yolks of four eggs. Cut some thin slices of bread (all the same thick- ness), toast and spread the salpicon over them, and lay them in sandwiches. Beat up the whites of eggs, which, with a spoon, pour all over the toast; then fry them in a very hot pan. Serve with veal or mutton gravy, or blond. SALPICONS are made of all sorts of meats and vegetables, such as truffles, artichoke bottoms, and mushrooms ; but everything must be put in in equal proportions. It is necessary to have them all cooked apart, so that they may be properly done as each requires. Salpi- cons are considered of the first style, and very economical, as a few left things which could not appear by themselves can be tossed up in a minute. SALSIFY is a black root. Scrape it well, taking care to leave no spots, and then soak it in vinegar and water. Fill up a saucepan with water ; add to it 1 oz. of butter, four dessert-spoonsful of vinegar, and some salt ; set it on the fire, and as soon as the water boils put in the salsify, and let it boil an hour. Drain, and serve either with white or brown sauce. SALSIFY, FRIED. When the salsify is dressed as above, drain and fry it lightly in a white sauce, and let it cool; then dip it in the hatter and fry it. Salsify is likewise sometimes soaked in a marinade of vinegar, with salt and pepper, previously to frying. SALT, COMMON, is now known to be com- posed of a very corrosive gas, called chlorine, the base of all bleaching preparations, and a metal called sodium, the base of the soda so well known in the laundry. Upon a most careful examination of diff'erent specimens of common salt it appears that the chief, if not the only cause of the difference in the qualities of both foreign and domestic salts is in the size and compactness of the crystals ; that that kind of salt which possesses most eminently the combined properties of hardness, compactness, and perfection of crystals, is best adapted for the purpose of preserving fish and other provisions, and merely so because it will remain permanently between the different layers, or will be very gradually dissolved by the fluids that e.xude from the provisions, thus furnishing a slow but constant supply of satu- rated brine. But, for preparing pickles and other common purposes, the small-grained salt answers equally well, or perhaps, on account of its ready solubility, even better. Although a prejudice exists in favour of bay salt, as it is called, for the purpose of salting fish, &c., yet M'e have reason to know that the greater part of what is sold for bay salt in this country is an English manufacture, often tinged with umber or some such colouring material. Salt is of most extensive use as a preservative of food, as a condiment, and in various processes in the arts. As a condiment it appears to be essential to the human constitution, although, when taken in immoderate quantity, it has the singular