MIL MIL [ S13 ] togetlieT, and serve it in a glass disb. See Buttermilk. MILK FEVER- To prevent the milk fever the breasts ought to be frequently drawn, and, if they are filled previously to the onset of a fever, they should, upon its first appearance, be drawn, to prevent the milk from becoming acrid, and its being absorbed in this state, Costiveness is likewise to be avoided. This will be best effected by the use of mild clysters and a laxa- tive diet. MILK LEMONADE. Dissolve 6 ozs. of loaf sugar in a pint of boiling water, with which mix a quarter of a pint of lemon juice and the same quantity of sherry; then add three quarters of a pint of cold milk, stir the whole well together, and pass it through a jelly bag to xjlear. MILK PORRIDGE. Make a fine gruel of half-ground grits boiled a long time, strain off, and either add cold milk or warm it with milk. Serve with toast. MILK PORRIDGE, FRENCH. Stir some oatmeal and water together, leave it to stand till it is clear, and then pour off the latter; pour fresh water upon the wet meal, stir it well, let it stand till the following day, strain through a fiiie sieve, and boil the water, adding milk while doing so. The proportion of water should be small. MILK, POTTAGE OF. Put on the fire some milk, with a little sugar and a bay leaf; add, as soon as it boils, the yolks of three eggs ; then take it off, and set it aside. Whip the whites of eggs to a snow, poach them in a little of the milk, soak your bread in the remainder, put it into a tureen, with the poached whites on the top, sprinkle them with sugar, and colour them with a salamander. MILK IN POWDER. Kirchoff, a Russian chemist, who discovered the process of converting starch into sugar, has made several experiments upon milk, by which it appears that this fluid may be preserved for use for an indefinite time. Fresh milk is slowly evaporated by a very gentle heat till it is reduced to dry powder, which must be kept perfectly dry in a bottle well stopped for use. When required it need only be diluted with a sufficient quantity of water. The mix- ture will then have all the taste and properties of new milk. MILK PUNCH (1). Beat up two eggs well, and mix them in a quart of milk, sugar, nutmeg, and lemon-peel to your taste; boil gently, stir- ring it all the time till thick enough; take it off the fire a very few minutes, and then add to it a full quarter of a pint of rum. It must be stirred all the time the rum is being poured in, or it will not be good. MILK PUNCH (2). Pare six oranges and six lemons as thin as you possibly can, and grate them afterwards with sugar to obtain the flavour. Steep the peels in a bottle of rum or brandy stopped closely for twenty-four hours; squeeze the fruit on 2 lbs. of sugar, add four quarts of water to it, and one quart of new milk boiling hot; stir the rum in the above, and run it through a, jelly bag until it is quite clear. Bottle and cork it closely immediately. MILK PUNCH FOR PRESENT DRINK- ING. To two quarts of water put two of French brandy, a dozen and a half of lemons, | lb. of double-refined sugar, and three pints of new milk. Strain frequently through a jelly bag till it is clear and fine. It must be made two or three days before you use it, and may h& bottled off. MILK ROLLS. Boil a quart of new milk, pour it on a quart of flour while boiling hot, and stir well together. When nearly cold add two tea- spoonsful of salt, two table-spoonsful of lard, and half a tea-cupful of good yeast; set it in a warm place to rise for about two hours. When light work flour in it on the cake board, and when quite smooth mould it out into rolls, and put them in a baking-pan which has been rubbed with lard or butter. Set them in a warm place to rise again : if the weather is warm on a table in the kitchen, but if cold set them by the fire. When light put-them in a cool place till you are ready to bake. They should have a moderate heat, and will bake in half an hour. MILK OF ROSES (1). Mix together a pint of rose water and 1 oz, of oil of sweet almonds; then add 10 drops of oil of tartar, bottle it, and shake it well. It is good for softening the hands. MILK OF ROSES (2). Blanched almonds, 4o2s.; rose water, 1^ pint; white Windsor soap, ^ oz.; white wax, ^ oz.; oil of almonds, ^ oz.; rectified spirit, 6 ozs.; oil of bergamot, i oz.; oil of lavender, J drachm ; attar of roses, ^ drachm. Beat the almonds and rose water in a mortar until they form an emulsion; melt together with a gentle heat the soap, wax, and almond oil; pour this melted mixture into the emulsion, and then strain. Dissolve the oils of bergamot, lavender, and rose in the rectified spirit, and then mix it with the strained emul- sion. Used as a cosmetic. See Cosmetics for a cheaper recipe. MILK SOUP. Take two quarts of new milk, with two sticks of cinnamon, a couple of bay leaves, a very little basket salt, and a little sugar. Put all into a stewpan to warm. While heating blanch ^ lb. of sweet almonds, beat them to a paste in a mortar, mix it by degrees with some milk, and while heating add to them the peel of a lemon grated, and a little of the juice ; then strain it through a coarse sieve, mix it