VE A VE A [ 527 ] VEAL, GRENADE OF. Take a noix of veai, cut it into four pieces all of tlie same size, and lai'd them ; take also a very fine fowl; season them moderately, and partly dress them ; butter the interior of a plain deep mould, in the centre of which put a large ball of farce ; place the Jour pieces of veal at the four corners, between tliem a piece of fowl, using only the white parts; fill up the intermediate spaces with crayfish, and all the interstices, and pour in some jelly to fix the different articles together. Be careful to place the back of the crayfish and the larded parts of the veal against the sides of the mould, and put some truffles into the jelly before it is poured in: set the mould in a cool place, and when the jelly is congealed dip it an instant in boiling water, and then turn it out. VEAL HAM. Cut a leg of veal in the fashion of a ham ; mix a pint of bay salt with 2 ozs. of saltpetre, 1 lb. of common salt, 1 oz. of cinnamon, and the same quantity of juniper berries powdered; rub the meat with this composition, and lay it in a tray with the skin downwards, basting it eveiy day for a fortnight, after which hang it up for the same space of time in wood smoke. It may be either boiled or parboiled and roasted. VEAL AND HAM PATTIES. Chop small 6 ozs. of the lean of veal ready dressed, and half the quantity of ham ; put them into a stewpan, with 1 oz. of butter rolled in flour, half a gill of cream, the same quantity of veal stock, a little grated nutmeg and lemon- peel, some Cayenne pepper and salt, a spoonful of the essence of ham, and lemon juice ; stir the whole over the fire for some time, and then make patties the same as directed for Veal Patties. The white meat of the breasts of chickens or fowls may be substituted for the veal. VEAL AND HAM PIE. Take 2 lbs. of cutlets, divide them into small pieces, and season with pepper and salt; then take 1 lb. of raw ham, cut it into slices, lay both alternately in the dish, and put some forcemeat or sausage meat over all, with stewed mushrooms, the yolks of three hard eggs, and a glass of water. VEAL, HARICOT OF. Take a neck or breast of veal (if the neck cut the bones short), and half roast it; then put it into a stewpan with sufficient bi'own gravy to cover it, and when nearlj'^ done have ready a pint of peas boiled, six cucumbers pared and sliced, and two lettuces cut into quarters and stewed in brown gravy with some forcemeat balls ready fried ; put all these to the veal, and let them just eimmer; lay the veal in a dish, pour the sauce and peas over it, and serve the lettuces and forcemeat balls all round. VEAL, HASHED (Cold). Cut the veal in slices, flour it, put it into a saucepan, witli a littio good gravy, some grated lemon-peel, jiejipcr, salt, and catsup; make it hot, and then add a little lemon juice. Serve fried sippets round the dish. VEAL, KEBOBBED. Cut some lean veal into thin bits the size of a crown piece ; season with turmeric, pepper, and salt; slice onion.i very thinly, and some garlic; and put the slices of veal and onion upon a skewer, together with thin bits of pork; fry them brown with butter, and garnish with plenty of fried parsley. VEAL KIDNEY AND PISTACHIO TART. Pick and mince a veal kidney; mix with the size of an egg of the fat, and pnt it into a creme pdtissiere; prepare 2 ozs. of pis- tachios, and mix them in a spoonful of sugar; glaze lightly, give it a brisk oven, and serve it hot. VEAL KIDNEY TOAST. Mince a roasted kidney, and also half its fat; season well with pepper and salt, chopped shallots, parsley, and a small quantity of green sweet basil; mix the whole together with the yolks of eggs, and lay it on slices of bread of an equal thickness, cut into any shape you please, and smooth it over with a knife dipped in egg; strew over the mince and bread crumbs, put them into a bdking dish on thin slices of bacon, and set them in an oven. When sufficiently baked drain off" the fat, and wipe the bread with a linen cloth. Serve with a little gravy under them. VEAL, KNUCKLE OF (Boiled). Break the knuckle-bone, that it may require less room; wash it well, and put it into a saucepan, with three onions, a blade or two of mace, and a few peppercorns ; cover it with water, and let it simmer till done. You may, if you think proper, boil a little macaroni or rice with it to give it a slight degree of thickness. Before it is served add half a pint of milk and cream, and serve either over the meat or separately. VEAL, KNUCKLE OF (Feied oe Stewed). Fry the knuckle, with onions cut into slices and butter, to a nice brown colour; and having ready some peas, lettuce, onion, and a cucumber or two, that have stewed about an hour in a small quantity of water, add these to the veal, and let them stew together till the meat is tender; add pepper, salt, and a very little mint shred fine, and serve the whole together. VEAL, LEG OF (en Sdrpeise). Lard veal with slips of bacon and lemon-peel cut thin ; make a stuffing the same as for a fillet of veal, only mix it with half a pint of oysters chopped small; stuff' your veal with this, and put it to stew with just sufficient water to cover it. Let it stew very gently till quite tender; then take it up, skim off" all the fat from the liquor, and add some lemon juice, mushroom catsup, the