[ 34 ] HED -HEA The treatment of palpitation will depend on a knowledge of the cause which gives rise to it. Should it arise from fulness of habit bleeding may be adopted, with purgatives, &c.; if from weakness, the use of bitters, cold bathing, with other tonics, will be proper; and when symptomatic of some nervous disorder, in con- junction with these may be given musk, castor, ether, and other antispasmodics. In a case of palpitation of the heart which came under our observation Sir Astley Cooper, Bart., had pre- scribed the following with considerable relief to the patient, who was a female, viz. :—Take tincture of foxglove, ^ oz. ; spirit of nitrous ether, 1^ oz. A small tea-spoonful twice a day, occasionally taking the following pill:—Take calomel, 1 grain; gamboge, 1 grain; squills, 2 grains; in consequence of a dropsical affection of the chest. When the disease depends upon any organic affection the patient should be cautioned against using any violent exertions either of body or mind, particularly fits of passion, sudden surprise, &c. HEARTBURN. See Acidity. HEARTBURN LOZENGES. Precipitated chalk, 4 ozs.; gum-ai'abic powder, 1 oz.; powdered nutmeg, 1 drachm ; powdered loaf sugar, 6 ozs. Beat them with water into a mass of the con- sistency of dough, roll out, cut into lozenges, and dry. Three or four to be sucked as needed. HEATHCOCK, or Blackcock : To Dress. Open the skin of a heathcock, take the meat from the breast, and mince it with beef suet, sweet herbs, three artichoke bottoms boiled, some chestnuts roasted and blanched, and marrow and skirrets boiled. These ingredients being minced very finely, season them with pepper and salt, and add the yolks of three eggs. Mix the whole together, and put some of it in the place of the breast; fasten the skin, prick the back, and put it into a stewpan, with broth, marrow, an artichoke cut in pieces, chest- nuts, and some of the forcemeat made into balls. When sufficiently done take it out, and serve it with fried bread and the sauce. Garnish the dish with slices of lemon, yolks of hard eggs, and chestnuts. HECTIC FEVER. A species of slow fever returning daily, with paroxysms at noon and in the evening, generally attended with profuse perspiration at night, and the urine depositing a sediment like brickdust. Causes. Persons of tender constitutions, and those who indulge in violent passions, especially grief, are chiefly liable to the attacks of hectic fevers. Besides, luxurious living, abuse of wine, the drinking of impure water, the excessive use of perfumes, as well as the suppression of natural discharges, and an injudicious treatment of catarrhal, putrid, inflammatory, and inter- mittent fevers, are among the numerous causes of this disorder. Hectics arising in consequence of a favourable suppuration of a wound or ulcer are the least dangerous; but where they are confirmed it is in vain to attempt a radical cui'e, as medicine can only mitigate the symptoms and protract a lingerins; existence. The changes of the seasons are particularly fatal to young hectic patients, who, if attacked in the spring, generally languish till the succeeding autumn ; or, if they become subject to the disease during the summer solstice, they linger out a wretched existence till about the same period arrives in the follow- ing year. Method of treatment. As this fever arise:; from various causes it must necessarily require different remedies. In general, however, the chief object to be attended to is the mitigation of the symptoms by preventing both costiveuess and looseness, by procuring sleep, and checking the night sweats. The use of Peruvian bark has been attended with considerable success, for it tends to stop the progress of gangrenes, and the suppurations become more favourable. Cauteries applied to the head, antiscorbutics, together with gelatinous or mealy substances, and the moderate use of generous wine, may be safely administered. In the beginning of the disease soft-stewed eggs and raw oysters, eaten in small portions, have often proved very beneficial. Much depends upon the diet, air, and exercise. The diet, indeed, ought to con- sist chiefly of milk and vegetables. Half a pint of either goats or asses' milk, which last is less viscid than any other kind, should be drunk three or four umes in the course of a day, and continued for weeks, and even months. Some authors preferably recommend butter- milk, which in their opinion is equal to that of asses, observing that many persons have re- covered by the free use of it; nevertheless it should be sparingly taken at first, and gradually increased till it becomes almost the only sustenance. Persons who have been accustomed to animal food and strong liquors must eftect this change by imperceptible degrees; and by persisting in the course above mentioned they will in most cases recover, unless the fever has made such progress as to reduce the frame to a confii'med consumption. HEDGEHOG: To Make. Blanch 2 lbs. of sweet almonds, beat them to a paste in a mortar, moistening it occasionally with canary and orange-flower water, and beat the yolks of twelve and the whites of seven eggs with a pint of • ci'eam and some powder sugar. Put this, with the almond paste and ^ lb. of fresh butter, into