NER [ 251 ] NEK inquietudes, terror, sadness, anger, diffidence, &c. The patient is apt to entertain wild imaginations and extravagant fancies, the memory becomes weak, and the judgment fails. Nothing is more characteristic of this disease than a constant dread of death. This renders those unhappy persons who labour under it peevish, fickle, impatient, and apt to run from one physician to another, which is one reason why they seldom reap any benefit from medicine, as they have not sufficient resolution to persist in any one course till it has time to produce its proper effects. They are likewise apt to imagine that they labour under diseases from which they are quite free, and are veiy angry if any one attempts to set them right, or laugh them out ot their ridiculous notions. Regimen. Persons afflicted with nervous dis- eases ought never to fast long. Their food should be solid and nourishing, but of easy digestion. Fat meats and heavy sauces are hurtful. All excess should be carefully avoided. They ought never to eat more at a time than they can easily digest, and heavy suppers are to be avoided. If they feel themselves weak and faint between meals they ought to eat a bit of bread, and drink a glass of wine. Though wine in excess enfeebles the body and impairs the faculties of the mind, yet taken in modera- tion it strengthens the stomach and promotes digestion. Wine and water is a very proper drink at meals; but if w"ine sours on the sto- mach, or the patient is much troubled with wind, brandy and water will answer better. Everything that is windy or hard of digestion must be avoided. All weak and warm liquors are hurtful, as tea, coffee, punch, &c. People may find a temporary relief in the use of these, but they always increase the malady, as they weaken the stomach and hurt digestion. Above all things, drams are to be avoided. Whatever immediate ease the patient may feel from the use of ardent spirits, they are sure to aggravate the malady, and prove certain poisons at last. These cautions are the more necessary as most nervous people are peculiarly fond of tea and ardent spirits, to the use of which many of them fall victims. Exercise in nervous disorders is superior to all medicines. Riding on horseback is generally esteemed the best, as it gives motion to the whole body without fatiguing it. We have known some patients, however, with whom walking agreed better, and others who were most benefited by riding in a carriage. Every one ought to use that which he finds most beneficial. Long sea-voyages have an excellent effect, and to those who have sufficient resolu- tion we would by all means recommend this course. Even change of place and the sight of new objects, by diverting the mind, have a gi'eat tendency to remove these complaints. For this reason a long journey or a voyage is of much more advantage than riding short journeys near home. A cool dry air is proper, as it braces and invigorates the whole body. Few things tend more to relax and enervate than hot air, espe- cially that which is rendered so by great fires, or stoves in small apartments. But when the stomach or bowels are weak the body ought to be well guarded against cold, especially in win- ter, by wearing a thin flannel waistcoat next the skin. This will keep up an equal perspiration, and defend the alimentary canal from many impressions to which it would otherwise be* sub- ject upon every sudden change from warm to cold weather. Rubbing the body frequently with a flesh-brush or a coarse linen cloth is likewise beneficial, as it promotes the circula- tion, perspiration, &c. Persons who have weak nerves ought to rise early, and take exercise before breakfast, as lying too long in bed cannot fail to relax the solids. They ought likewise to be diverted, and to be kept as easy and cheerful as possible. There is not anything which hurts the nervous system or weakens the digestive powers more than fear, grief, or anxiety. Medicines. Though nervous diseases are sel- dom radically cured, yet their symptoms may sometimes be alleviated, and the patient's life rendered at least more comfortable by proper medicines. WheTi the patient is costive he ought to take a little rhubarb, or some other mild purgative, and should never suff'er his body to be long bound. All strong and violent purgatives are, however, to be avoided, as aloes, jalap, &c. We have generally seen an infusion of senna and rhubarb in brandy answer very well. This may be made of any strength, and taken in such quantity as the patient finds necessary. When the digestion is bad, or the stomach relaxed and weak, the following infusion of Peruvian bark and other bitters may be used with advantage:— Take of Peruvian bark 1 oz.; gentian root, orange-peel, and coriander seed, c^f each ^ oz. Let these ingredients be all bruised in a mortar, and infused in a bottle of brandy or rum for the space of five or six days. A table-spoonful of the strained liquor may be taken in half a glass of water an hour before breakfast, dinner, and supper. Few things tend more to strengthen the ner- vous system than cold bathing. This practice, if duly persisted in, will produce very extraordinary effects; but when the liver or other viscera are obstructed, or otherwise unsound, the cold bath is improper. It is, therefore, to be used with very great caution. The most proper seasons