MAC MAC [ 108 ] boil them for three quarters of an hour, and then, if the macaroni is flexible, take it out, drain it well, and put it into another saucepan, with 2 ozs. of butter, 3 ozs. of grated Parmesan cheese, 4 ozs. of Gruyere cheese (also grated), and a little pepper and nutmeg. Toss up the whole together, adding two or three spoonsful of cream, and when done put it on a dish, and serve it very hot. MACARONI: To Dbess (2). Take i lb. of pipe macaroni, stew it in water with a little salt till tender, drain, and return it to the pan, adding thereto some cream, and let it stew till it is thick and rich; season with beaten mace and a little made mustard, mixed with two spoonsful of cream and the yolks of two eggs; give the whole a toss, line a dish with puff paste, pour in the macaroni, grate some Parmesan or Cheshire cheese over it, and bake it in a moderate oven. If to be done white omit the eggs, mustard, and cheese ; season with nutmeg or mace, and salt, and add a little more cream. MACARONI: To Dress (3). Wash and drain as much macaroni as you desire for dinner, and put it on to boil in tepid water. When it is soft enough to pass a fork through take it off, drain it through a cullender, wipe out the skillet, and return it immediately back again ; then add milk enough to half cover it, salt and red pepper to your taste, a piece of butter as large as a turkey's egg, and grated cheese as plentifully as you please. Stew the whole together five to ten minutes, stirring it all the time ; then throw it out into a dish, cover the top with grated bread crumbs, and set it iu the oven for a few minutes to brown on the top. If left long in the oven it will dry up, and become tough and unpalatable. MACARONI: To Serve (1). Simmer some macaroni in a little stock, with pounded mace and salt. When quite tender take it out of the liquor, lay it on a dish, grate over a good deal of cheese, and over that put finely grated bread. Warm some butter without oiling, and pour it from a boat through a little earthen cullender all over the crumbs; then put the dish in a Putch oven to roast the cheese, and brown the bread of a fine colour. The bread should be in sepa- rate crumbs, and look light. MACARONI: To Serve (2). Wash it well, and simmer it in half milk and half of veal or mutton stock till the macaroni is tender; then take a spoonful of the liquor, and put to it the yolk of an egg, beaten up with a spoonful of cream. Just make it hot enough to thicken, but do not let it boil; pour it over the macaroni, then grate fine old cheese all over it, and add bits of butter. Brown it nicely with a salamander. MACARONI, COLD, if already dressed, may be warmed in any kind of broth, letting it simmer gentiy over a slow fire, with the yolks ot two eggs to thicken, after which it should be put into the oven in a mould, covered with crumbs of bread; or, if undressed, it may be made by leaving it overnight in broth, and then proceeding with it as above. MACARONI CORDIAL. Infuse for a fortnight in nine pints of brandy 1 lb. of bitter almonds, with a little Bohemian or Spanish angelica root, beaten together, shaking the vessel often. At the end of that time put the whole into a cucurbit, and distil it in a bain-marie. Five pints of spirit, thus impregnated with the flavour of the almonds and angelica, make a syrup with 5 lbs. of sugar, two quarts of eau de millefleurs, and three quarts of common distilled water. When these are mixed with the spirit add thirty drops of the essence of lemon, after which filter through blotting paper. MACARONI DRESSED SWEET. Boil 2 ozs. of macaroni in a pint of milk, with a bit of lemon-peel and a good piece of cinnamon, till the pipes are swelled to their utmost size without breaking; lay them on a custard dish, and pour a hot custard over them. Serve cold. MACARONI GRAIN BALLS FOR SOUP. Take some macaroni paste, and having rolled it out very thin, cut it into small squares, and chop these with a knife into grains of the proper size. The paste might also be rubbed through a grater; but in this case the dough must be very dry and stiff, other- wise the grains, instead of being short and rounded, will be left of too long a size. MACARONI AU GRATIN. Lay fried bread pretty closely round a dish, boil your macaroni in the usuftl way, and pour it into the dish; smooth it all over, strew bread crumbs on it, and then a pretty thick layer of grated Parmesan cheese; drop a little melted better on it, and cploor it with a salamander. MACARONI, MILANESE. Throw the macaroni into boiling water with some salt in it; lej; jt have plenty of room, and be well covered with water; boil it twenty-five minutes ; drain it in a cullender; then put it in a deep dish in alternate layers of maca- rorii and grated cheese; lay oj; the top slices bf fresh butter; pour over enough milk and cream to cover the whole, and place the dish in an oven where it can cook at the top and bottom. In fifteeri or twenty minutes it will be done, Serve it up immediately. Too much fire will make it diy. MACARONI WITHOUT MILK. Soak some macaroni in boiling water, and when done spread the bottom of a dish with grated cheese and butter; lay upon it soine of the macaroni