KIR KIN [ 103 ] it begins to produce symptoms of giddiness or sickness at the stomach, and resumed when these subside, and in this manner continued for some weeks. A strong decoction of the dried leaves of colts- foot, when the juice cannot be procured in a fresh state, has been given with some effect. Another remedy which has been much em- ployed in scrofula, and not unfrequently with advantage, is burnt sponge in the form of a bolus or draught, e.g.:—Take burnt sponge, from 20 to 30 grains; rhubarb in powder, 3 grains; honey, enough to make a bolus. To be taken twice a day. Or, take burnt sponge, 1 scruple; aromatic confection, 10 grains; mint water, 1^ oz. To be taken twice a day. A mo]'e active medicine, and employed in- stead of this, although it is the basis of it, is the carbonate of soda, from 10 to 20 grains to a drachm, twice or three times a day, e.g.:—Take carbonate of soda, 6 drachms; powder of Peru- vian bark, 3 ozs.; mucilage of gum arable, enough to form an electuaiy, of which the size of a nutmeg may be taken thrice a day. Or, take carbonate of soda, ^ oz.; infusion of Peru- vian bark, 10 ozs.; compound tincture of cinna- mon, 1 oz.; syrup of orange-peel, i oz. Make a mixture, of which two table-spoonsful are to be taken three or four times a day. The sulphuric and nitric acids are much valued for their ,-irtue in the cure of this disease, and scrofulous ulcei's which had re- sisted many other remedies have healed under a weak solution of nitric acid and water; and in those sores which are spreading and irritable a watery solution of opium and hemlock, and afterwards of a solution of zinc, will be found gerviceable. Blisters applied to swellings of the glands have brought them to a quicker state of suppura- i tion than they would otherwise have done. The I stimulus of a blister, where the swelling of a gland has become indolent and stationary, rouses it to a state of renewed action, which probably may dispose it to suppurate. In some instances both blistering and electricity have, however, ! been attended with a directly contrary effect, and have occasioned the swellings to disperse—a step I which should invariably be attempted on the i first appearance of any tumour, or enlargement I of any joint, by swelling of the parts surround- ing it. The means usually employed for this purpose are local bleeding, sea water, poultices,, 1 hemlock, mercmial ointment, electricity, blisters, Ac. Sea bathing, where it can be adopted, will prove the best of all remedies. _ When the process of suppuration is suffi- ciently advanced the contents of the abscess are to be discharged at once with the lancet, if the collection be not large; if otherwise, by repeated puncturation at proper intervals, closing the orifice to prevent the access of external air, in the same manner as practised by skilful sar- geons in the treatment of an abscess of the loins, into whose hands the disease at this stage, equally as in the first, should more particularly he intrusted. KINO is a gum produced by various trees of the genus Pterocarpiis. Kino is a powerful astringent. Like catechu, it is employed in obstinate diarrhcEas, and inte)'nal bleedings ; but it is less certain in its operation than catechu. It is applied externally as a styptic, and to give tone to, and diminish the discharge of, flabby and ill-conditioned ulcers. It is given internally in substance, in the form of watery infusion, or in tincture. The dose in substance is from ten grains to half a drachm. The tincture, which is made with 1^ oz. of kino in powder, and one pint of proof spirit, macerating for fourteen days, and straining, is given in doses of from one to two drachms. It should not be forgotten that solutions of isinglass, sulphate of iron, tartarised antimony, the alkalies, the strong acids, nitrate of silver, muriate of mercuiy, and superacetate of lead, are incompatible in prescriptions with kino. KIRSCHWASSER (1). The best cherries for this pui-pose are the morello, which should be taken when quite ripe. Pick off the stalks, and put the fruit into a tub. Have some new wood ashes, and wet them so as to make a kind of mortar of them, and extend it over the cherries : these ashes in drying form a complete hard crust, which prevents any evaporation, and assists the fermentation. Leave the fruit thus for six weeks, at the end oi which time re- move the ashes, take out the pulp and juice of the cherries immediately under them, put them into the cucurbite (but not enough to fill it), and distil them. The fire during the opera- tion should be managed with great care, and increased gradually till the produce of your dis- tillation flows in a small stream, and ceasing the instant the phlegm begins to appear; then throw away the dregs from the cucurbite, put more cherries in, and distil as before. KIRSCHWASSER (2). Bruise the ker- nels of some cherries, and throw them, with their shells, into brandy; let them infuse till the season when you can add some apricot kernels without the shells, and then leave them to infuse for two months longer. You must filter off the infusion, then distil it, by which means it will become as clear as the kirsch- •wasser of the Black Forest. KIRSCHWASSER CREAM. Take three quarts of old kirschwasser, and rectify it, by which you will obtain two quarts of liquor, to which add 4 ozs. of double orange-flower