[ 8 ] GUN GUM l)y the London College mucilage of acacia:— Take of acacia gum powdered, 4 ozs.; boiling water, ^ pint. Rub the gum with the water until it incoi-porates into a mucilage. Gum arable and Senegal are used extensively for various purposes in the arts. They are also used by the Moors as food, and are, as a vegetable production, very nutritive. GUM PASTE. [See Cement, Gdm.) Take a common-sized tea-cupful of cold soft water, and dissolve in it a large tea-spoonful of the best and cleanest powdered gum arable. When the gum is entirely melted stir in by degrees a table-spoonful of fine wheat flour, carefully pressing out all the lumps, and making it as smooth as possible ; keep it closely covered in a cool place. If after a few days it should appear mouldy on the top, remove the surface, and the paste beneath will still be lit for use. This is a good cement for artificial flowers, and for ornamental pasteboard work. GUMBO, CHICKEN. Cut up a young fowl as if for a fricassee, put into a stewpan a large table-spoonful of fresh butter mixed with a tea-spoonful of flour, and an onion finely minced; brown them over the fire, and then add a quart of water and the pieces of chicken, with a quarter of a peck of okras, first sliced thinly, and then chopped, and a salt-spoonful of salt; cover the pan, and let the whole stew together till the okras are entirely dissolved, and the fowl thoroughly done. If it is a very young chicken do not put it in at first, as half an hour will be sufficient to cook it. Serve it up hot in a deep dish. GUMS. There are various afl'ections of these. Gum-boils usually arise from violent pains in the teeth. They are to be treated with discu- tients, like other inflammatory tumours ; but if these fail, or the disorder be neglected, it is apt to produce a fistula. A gargle prepared of an infusion of sage, camomile, and elder flowers boiled in milk and water, may with advantage be frequently held in the mouth, and the remaining herbs sewn up in a bag and applied to the cheek ; or a half-roasted fig held within the mouth to the part affected sometimes affords great relief. When the softness of the tumour evinces that the matter is properly suppurated it should without delay be opened by the lancet, to prevent the matter from lodging there, eroding the bone, and causing a fistula or caries. After this, operation is performed the matter should be gently pressed out with the fingers, and the mouth frequently washed with lukewarm port wine and water; but when the ulcer has penetrated to a considerable depth it will be necessary to inject the last-mentioned mixture with a syringe, and compress the part affected by a proper external bandage. If the affection assumes a fistulous appearance, and has callous edges, it may even then be cured by injecting the compound tincture of aloes, and continuing it for some time. Should, however,, all these remedies prove inetfectual, the fistula must be laid open by incision, and the caries removed by medicines or caustics. Gams frequently become spongy and separate from the teeth. This is often occasioned by a tartarous kind of crust which is formed about them, and on the separation of which the gums return to their pristine state. To promote this favourable change they should occasionally, though gently, be rubbed with a mixture con- sisting of four parts of an infusion of roses, and one part of the tincture of myrrh. Another disorder incident to human gums is the scurvy, which frequently breaks out on them, while it does not appear on any other part of the body. Indeed, when a scorbutic complaint attacks the whole system the first symptom is a putrid state of the gums. In such case a rigid diet, consisting chiefly of ripe fruit and mucilaginous vegetables, will be the best cor- rective. Externally, a fine powder, prepared of three parts of double-refined sugar and one part of burnt alum, may be employed for rub- bing them two or three times a day, because sugar is an excellent antiseptic even as an article of diet. Livid gums generally proceed from the blood stagnating there, which is owing to a fault in the circulation. The method of preventing and correcting this defect is to rub the gums carefully every morning with a linen cloth a little rough, and to pick them from time to time, but very gently, with the point of a golden or ivory toothpick, to make them bleed a little ; for this must be done, else the rubbing with the linen cloth will not have force enough to restore the circulation in the part. But in picking the gums to make them bleed you must take care not to do it where the teeth are joined to the gum, but only in the middle of its breadth, at some distance from the teeth. GUN COTTON. If clean carded cotton be immersed for two or three minutes in a larg€ quantity of the sti'ongest nitric acid, sp. gr. 1 52, then well washed in water, and dried bi the heat of a water bath, it will be convertec into gun cotton. The following, however, is th« best process for making it:—Mix two parts ol nitiic acid, sp. gr. I'o, and one part of oil oi vitriol, sp. gr. 1845; immerse clean and dry carded cotton in the mixture for two minutes; then take it out, press it (to remove adhering acid), wash it in a current of water until all fre« acid is removed, and dry it by the heat of c water bath. Gun cotton thus prepared is highly explosive,