[ 241 ] MUT NAT one side turn them, and thicken the gravy with flour and butter. Add at pleasure a little shallot or catsup, or both. Twenty or twenty- five minutes will be sufficient, for a longer time will make them tough. MUTTON STEAKS, BROILED. Cut some mutton steaks from the loin about half an inch thick, taking off the skin and part of the fat. As soon as the gridiron is hot rub it with a little suet, lay on the steaks, and turn them fre- quently. When they are done put them into a hot dish, and rub them with a little butter. Slice a shallot very thin into a spoonful of water, and pour it on them; add a little catsup, garnish with scraped horseradish and pickles, and send them up hot to table. MUTTON STEAKS A LA MAINTENON. Half fry the steaks, and while they are hot stew them with herbs, crumbs, and seasoning; put them in paper immediately, and finish on the gridiron. Take care that the paper does not catch, to prevent which rub a bit of butter on first. MUTTON, TOURTE OF. Cut the meat off a neck of mutton into thin slices ; also slice some onions. Line a dish with puff paste, at the bottom of which put a layer of godiveau; place some of the mutton on this, then a part of the onions, and season with pepper and salt. On these put another layer of godiveau, then the mutton, onions, and so on alternately till all is used ; then cover them with butter and thin slices of bacon, lay a crust over, and bake it au hour and a half or more, according to its size. When done remove the top, take out the baccn, skim it well, and pour in some cullis in which a little mustard has been mixed. Take care the sauce runs into all parts. Replace the top and serve it MYRRH (Balsamodendron myrrlid) yields the gum resin called myrrh. It is a small tree, with a stunted trunk, covered with a whitish grey bark, and furnished with rough abortive branches, terminating in spines. It grows in Arabia Felix, in the neighbourhood of Gison, in dwarfish thickets, interspersed among acacias and euphorbias. The juice exudes spontaneously, and hardens on the bark. Myrrh is in small irregular fragments, or tears, or in larger masses very irregular in shape and size, being sometimes not larger than a pea, and sometimes, though rarely, as large as the fist. When of good quality it is reddish yellow or reddish brown, and translucent; of a strong, peculiar, somewhat fragrant odour; and a bitter, aromatic taste. It is brittle and pulverisable, presenting, when broken, a shining surface, which in the lai'ger masses is very irregular, and sometimes exhibits opaque, whitish, or yellowish veins. It is partly soluble in water, VOL. 11 alcohol, and ether; and either alcohol or water will extract the whole of its odour and taste. By distillation a volatile oil rises, having the peculiar flavour of myrrh, and leaving the residue simply bitter. Myrrh is a stimulant tonic, and is employed as an expectorant and emmenagogue in debilitated states of the system, in the absence of febrile excitement or acute inflammation. It is given in doses of from 10 to 60 grains, dissolved in water as in Griffith's myrrh mixture, or dissolved in spirit of wine, or made into pills. MYRRH, PERFUMED TINCTURE OF. This astringent dentifrice is thus prejmred :— To 18 fluid ozs. of tincture of myrrh add 2 ozs. of essence ol Cologne. If the tincture should not be quite clear add a few grains of burnt alum, shake frequently, and filter in a day or two. MYRTLE, OIL OF. Put 2 ozs. of peach leaves and half a nutmeg bruised into six quarts of brandy. Distil from this, in a bain- marie alembic, your liquor, in which infuse ^ lb. of myrtle flowers for four days. Dissolve -5 lbs. of sugar in three quarts of pure I'iver water. The moment it begins to boil take it from the fire, and let it cool. Take the myrtle flowers from the liquor, and put in the sugar. Mix them well, colour with tincture of saffron, strain, and bottle it. N. i^AlLS OF FINGERS. The following, for which we are indebted to " The Magazine of Domestic Economy," contains all that need be said upon the subject. The nails sometimes are set in such a manner that their joining is quite exposed, in the same way as a picture which is not joined to its frame. For the root and sides of each nail ought to be set into the flesh round about as into a frame ; and this frame ought to be so exact as to come to a level with the nail by the means of a small pellicle, which should come a little forward upon the nail in the form of a crescent. When the nails are enchased in this manner, the best way to preserve them so is to take care never to soak the fingers in vinegar, the juice of citrons or of gooseberries, or of any other thing of that kind which may make its way under the tender pellicle upon the borders of the nails, dry it, gnaw it, contract it, or make it turn up. For this reason young ladies ought to take care of their nails in making the syrup of lemons or the jelly of gooseberries, &c., which they have frequent occasion to do. They should likewise take care not to soak their B