LAO LAM C 111 ] , arnotto, each 2 drachms. Put them into a hottle with a pint of highly rectified spirits of wine, place them in a moderate heat, shaking the bottle often for several days, and there will i then be obtained a strong yellow tincture, which must he strained off from the dregs through a coarse linen cloth; put hack this tincture into the bottle, add 3 ozs. of good seed-lac powdered grossly, place the mixture again in a moderate heat, and shake it till the seed-lac be dissolved. The lacker is then strained and put into a well- corked bottle. The arnotto is increased in proportion where it is desired to have the lacker warmer or redder than this composition, and diminished where it is wanted cooler or nearer a true yellow. This lacker, properly managed, is extremely good, and of moderate price ; hut the following, which is cheaper, is not greatly inferior to it, I and may be made where the Spanish arnotto can- ' not be procui'ed good :—Take 1 oz. of turmeric j root (ground), and half a drachm of the best I dragon's blood. Put them to one pint of spirits i of wine, and proceed as above ; and the varnish ' may be rendered of a redder or truer yellow I cast by diminishing the proportion of dragon's I blood. Saffron is sometimes used to form the body of colour in this lacker instead of the I turmeric: it makes a warmer but more ex- i pensive yellow, and, as turmeric has the advan- I tage in forming a much stronger tinge in spirits of wine, it receives the preference. Aloes and gamboge are also sometimes used in lackers for brass. Aloes are not necessary where turmeric or saffron is used; and the gamboge, though a strong juice in water, affords but a weak tinge in spirits of wine. -Lackek foe Tin to imitate a Yellow Metal. Take 1 oz. of turmeric root, 2 drachms of dragon's blood, and 1 pint of spirits of wine; add a sufficient quantity of seed-lac. Lacker for Locks, &c. Seed-lac varnish alone, or with a little dragon's blood; or a compound varnish of equal parts of seed-lac and resin, with or without the dragon's blood. Gold-coloured Lacker for Gilding Lea- ther. The gilt leather used for screens, room borders, &c., is leather covered with silver leaf, and lackered with the following composition:— Take 4^ lbs. of fine white resin, of common resin the same quantity, 2i lbs. of gum san darach, and 2 lbs. of aloes. Bruise those which are in great pieces, mix them together, put them into an earthen pot over a good charcoal fire, or any fire without flame. Melt all the in- gredients, stirring them well with a spatula, that they may be thoroughly mixed, and pre- vented also from sticking to the bottom of the pot. When they are perfectly melted and mixed add gradually to them seven parts of linseed oil, and stir the whole with the spatula. Make the liquid boil, stirring it all the time, to prevent the sediment from sticking to the bottom of the vessel. When the varnish has boiled seven or eight hours add gradually i oz. of litharge, or i oz. of red-lead, and when they are idissolved pass the varnish through a linen cloth or flannel bag. The way of know- ing when the varnish is sufficiently boiled is by taking a little on some instrument, and if it draws out and is ropy, and sticks to the fingers, drying on them, it is prepared. Lacker may be cleaned by rubbing it gently with a paste made of the following materials :— Starch, i oz.; rotten-stone in very fine powder, 6 ozs.; sweet oil, 1 oz.; oxalic acid, i oz.; water, enough to make a thin paste. LADY'S MAID. {See Female Servants.) Her duties are to keep in order her mistress's apartment, the housemaid only entering it for cleaning purposes ; to mend her clothes, and get them ready for the washerwoman ; to get up the finest articles herself; to attend her mistress throughout her toilet at any time of the day, and to dress her mistress's hair. Not to render herself ridiculous by dressing above her station. To pack her mistress's luggage when about to undertake and during a journey. She takes her meals in the servants' hall or housekeeper's room. She should avoid gossiping, and never betray family matters. LAIT DE POULE. Mix the yolks of two eggs with 1 oz. of powder sugar and some orange-flower water until the eggs whiten, pour in a glass of hot water, and boil up the mixture. LAIT SUCRE. Boil a pint of milk, sweeten with white sugar, and flavour with lemcja. LAMB. Though lamb is to be had generally throughout the year, the prime season, or that for the house lamb, is from Christmas to March. Grass lamb comes in about the latter part of April, or the beginning of May, and continues till the end of August. Lamb is a delicate and tender meat; but it requires to be kept a few days when the weather will permit, and should be thoroughly cooked to be healthful. Never take lamb or veal from the spit till the gravy that drops is white. The fore-quarter of lamb consists of the shoulder, the neck, and the breast together. The hind-quarter is the leg and loin. There are also the head and pluck, the fry sweetbreads, skirts, and liver. In choosing the fore-quarter the vein in the neck should be ruddy, and of a bluish colour. In the hind-quarter the knuckle should feel stiff, the kidney small, and perfectly fresh. To keep it the joints should be carefully wiped every day, and in warm weather sprinkled with a little salt.