L AZ LAU [ 129 ] tliem in the sun, and smooth them with a glass sHck-stone LAUREL [Cerasus lauro-cerasus). The leaves have a flavour resembling that of the bitter almond, and are used for flavouring custards, blanc-mangers, puddings, &c. They are more safe than oil or essence of bitter almonds for this purpose ; but, as the flavour of both arises from the hydrocyanic or prussic acid which they contain, even these leaves must not be used in excess. LAUREL WATER. Fresh laurel leaves chopped, 1 lb.; water, three pints. Distil over one pint, and mix with it 1 oz. of the compound spirit of lavender. It contains hydrocyanic acid, and is poisonous. Two- thirds of an ounce have been known to cause death. LAVEMENT. See Clyster. LAVENDER (Larawdw^a vera). It originally came from the south of Europe, where it grows abundantly on barren hills and declivities. The whole plant is bitter and aromatic, with warm- ing and exciting properties. It is tonic, cephalic, stimulating to the nervous system, and good against diseases of debility, such as disordered stomach, intestinal flatulence, passive hemor- rhages, leucorrhoea, and some gonorrhoeas. From the flowers and flower-stalks an essential oil is obtained by distillation, which, however, is always of superior quality when taken from the flowers alone. Oil of lavender is very fluid, of a lemon-yellow colour, having the odour of the flowers, and an aromatic, burning taste. The oil of lavender is chiefly used as a perfume, though possessed of carminative and stimulant properties. A few drops in drinks is beneficial against some nervous diseases, hysteria, trem- blings, vertigo, catalepsis, stammering, and paralysis, for which it is said to have a great reputation. It furnishes a perfume known as huile antique de lavande, which is composed of 3 ozs. of the essential oil, added to 1 lb. of the oil of ben ; and it is one of the ingredients of eau de Cologne. Lavender water is obtained by distilling the flowers of lavender with diluted alcohol. The dried flowers and flower-stalks are frequently tied in bundles, and kept in wardrobes for their fine perfume. The plant is extensively cultivated in Surrey for the flowers. L. spica is broad - leaved lavender, and is also a native of the south of Europe and north of Africa, where it grows along with the preceding species. It is from the flower of this that the oil of spike, or aspic, is obtained. It is yellowish, acrid, warm, aromatic, and of a penetrating odour; used in the arts for making varnishes, by artists for painting on porcelain, and also in medicine. It is sometimes adulterated vrith oil of turpentine, and sometimes with VOL. ir. alcohol. Its specific gravity is 0'9206. When allowed to stand in imperfectly stoppered bottles it deposits stearoptine, which often amounts to one-fourth of the weight of the oil. In Pro- vence blotting paper is soaked in the oil, and applied to the heads of children to destroy vermin in the skin; and it is also employed in friction against paralysis. LAVENDER DROPS are the compound tincture of lavender. Mix together spirit of lavender, | pint; spirit of rosemary, \ pint; rasped red sanders wood, 2 drachms ; cin- namon, \\ drachm ; nutmeg, 1 drachm. Let them soak fourteen days, and then strain through blotting paper. This mixture is stimulating, cordial, and stomachic. Dose, one to three tea-spoonsful. Given in faintness, flatulence, hysteria, lowness of spirits, &c. LAVENDER VINEGAR (1). Take 4 lb. of lavender leaves, dry them quickly, and put them into a jug, with a gallon of the best white vine- gar ; set it in the sun, closely covered, for a week ; then draw it off, press the dregs, filter through blotting paper, and bottle it. Keep them closely eoi'ked. LAVENDER VINEGAR (2). Prepare a jar of the proper size, and to every pint of vine- gar add ^ oz. of fresh lavender flowers and some rinds of lemon; leave them to infuse twenty- four hours ; put the jar, well luted, upon hot cinders for eight or ten hours without boiling, and pass it through a bag or filter. Bottle, and keep it closely waxed. LAVENDER WATER. See Eau de La- vande. LAVER CAKE. This is a mai-itime plant, which grows among the sand in the crevices of the rocks on the coast of Devonshire and Corn- wall. It is baked in pots by the natives, and then sent to all parts of England. The common method of cooking it is by frying it in butter and flour; but some culinary authors advise that it should be set in a dish over a lamp, with a little butter and the squeeze of a Seville orange. It must be stirred all the time till it is hot. This article, though not pleasant to the eye, is agreeable to the taste, and an excellent anti- scorbutic. LAXATIVE. See Aperient. LAZANGE SOUP WITH CHEESE. The lazange is a paste resembling macaroni, the only difference consisting in its being flat, somewhat like a bean, instead of being in pipes. Wash and boil it in stock, like rice, with a little salt, and drain it in a cullender; lay some of the lazange at the bottom of a soup dish, with some piecrs of butter on it, and strew grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese over them ; then put a layfr of lazanges, and so on alternately till the dish be full, taking care, however, that the last layer E