OLI [ 266 ] OLI boll well together, and then put in a fowl, a turkey, and a couple of pigeons; add 2 lbs. of ham cut in thick slices, keep it boiling, and as the scum rises skim it off very clean. While these ai'e doing take four French rolls rasped, pare off the crusts, and put them into a stew- pau, with a little of the olio liquor. When they are soft put them into a tureen or very deep soup dish, and pour in the liquor ; let there be some celery and some of the other roots added, with some of the best pieces of the meat, and the pigeons put in whole. This is the way to make the plain French olio; but they often put partridges to stew in the gravy, sometimes half roasting them before they put them in. OLIO, MATGRE. Scald all sorts of roots, such as onions, carrots, parsnips, parsley roots, tui'nips, celery, and leeks ; then boil them in some pease broth, with a mignonette and some carp trimmings. When the above vegetables are sufficiently done put in a little root gravy, strain, and set it by for any purpose which you may require. OLIO, SPANISH. Take some gristles from a breast of veal, also from a brisket of beef, and from a br'east of mutton, and some sheeps' rumps cut in pieces : they must all be about the size of a finger. Take also 5 lbs. of beef steaks, and put them into a stewpan, with a quan- tity of beef stock, a bunch of leeks, and a large bunch of celery picked very clean. They must be stewed till the rumps and gristles are tender ; then put in a couple of pigeons, a brace of partridges, two pairs of hogs' feet and ears, the knuckle end of a ham, half a fine white cabbage, some pepper, salt, a bunch of sweet basil, two onions, and some cloves. Cover these over with some thick beef steaks, and over them lay some veal steaks; pour a little fresh stock upon them, and leave them to stew over a gentle fire; let the whole stew till the liquor is evaporated, and the ingredients begin to stick at the bottom ; then put in more stock. While these are stewing set on to boil in some gi'avy some large peas that have been pre- viously soaked in water for twenty-four hours. The Spaniards make use of a kind of peas called garavances: they are large, and not unlike our grey peas ; but if these are not to be had, any large peas will do. These must be •foiled till very tender, and be ready at the same time as the olio. As the stock boils away put in more, which must boil for a quarter of an hour. Season the'olio according to taste with pepper and salt; have ready a large soup dish, take out the ingredients one by one, and lay them in the dish: the gristle and the roots must be dispersed about among the other things. Pour over them the peas and their gravy, and then put in a proper quantity of other gravy. It must not be eaten as a soup, but as an olio— the ingredients in preference to the liquor. Those who prefer the soup may have it in a basin with toasted bread. OLIVE. This tree is the Olea Europtea of botanists. There ai'e several varieties of the cultivated olive. The long-leaved is that which is generally grown in the south of France and Italy, and the broad-leaved is mostly grown in Spain. From the former the finest oil is obtained ; and the latter, which is nearly double the size of the other, produces an oil of a strong, rank flavour, not at all appreciated in this country, though eaten with great relish in Spain. The oil is obtained by pressure. In November, when the fruit is fully ripe, it begins to redden, and when gathered is carried to a mill and bruised, the stones being set at such a distance that they do not crush the nut of the olives. The flesh covering the nut, and con- taining the oil in its cells, being thus prepared, is put into bags made of rushes, and moderately pressed; and thus is obtained, in considerable quantity, a greenish, semi-transparent oil, which, from its superior excellence, is called virgin oil. Tlie pulp, after the first pressure, is moistened with water, and again pressed ; and this oil, though inferior to the first, is of good quality and fit for table. The pulp is again broken to pieces, soaked in water, and left to ferment in large cisterns, and is again pressed ; but the oil from this pressure is of a very common description, and is generally used for making soap, and for other manufacturing purposes. Olive oil may he said to form the butter and cream of Spain and Italy. It is very nutritious, and is extensively used as an article of food ; and there can be no doubt that it is more wholesome in warm climates, and more congenial to the human constitution, than butter. According to Braconnot the oil con- tains seventy-two parts of olein, and twenty- eight of margarin. It is solidified by nitrous acid and by nitrate of mercury, and converted into a peculiar fatty substance, which has re- ceived the name of eldidin. Taken medicinally it is a mild laxative, and subdues irritation of the intestines. It has also been recommended as a remedy for worms. Applied externally it serves to relax the skin. The fruit is prepared as a pickle by repeatedly steeping it in water, to which quicklime, or any alkaline substance, is sometimes added, to shorten the opera- tion. The olives are afterwards soaked in pure water, and then taken out and boiled in salt and water, with or without an aromatic. They are supposed to excite appetite and promote digestion. The taste of this fruit is an acquired one, and, like many other matters, is