[ 204 ] MEL MEM labouring feel, not accompanied witli a bold tlirob, but as though difficulty attended every exertion. A sort of ticking movement is some- times observed, which is often intermitting, giving from one hundred to one hundred and thirty strokes in a minute. Tlie skin is dry and burning, while the ex- tremities are cold and bathed in a clammy sweat. With these, transient purple-coloured flushings of the face are sometimes an att-endant. The tongue is usually of a brownish yellow colour, furred, and has intensely purple-red edges. Constipation is a very common symptom, ac- companied with flatus and eructation ; and diarrhcea is uncommon except the disease is about to undergo a salutary change. The urine is pale, thin, and cloudless, unless it be mor- bidly retained, which some do for several days. The thirst is usually great, and a peculiar odour is perceptible from their bodies. Watchfulness is also common in this form of disease; and sleep, when it is pi'esent, is often broken by nocturnal visions or frightful dreams. On objects not relating to the subject or passion which characterises the delusion they sometimes reason and act rightly, and often with great force and subtilt}'; but this is far from being invariable. The mind cannot be deemed sound even when exercised on points disconnected from the particular hallucination, and it is A^ery common that this absorbs the whole attention. There are very few melancholies whose de- Urium is not exasperated every two days; many have a strongly marked remission in the eyen- ing, and after meals ; others are exasperated at the beginning of the day or at evening. Has- 1am also observes that the symptoms are aggra- vated by being placed in a recumbent posture ; and patients, when in the raving state, seem of themselves to avoid the horizontal position as much as possible, and, when so confined that they cannot be erect, will keep themselves seated upon the breech. This remark applies equally to mania and monomania, MELKSHAM is a pleasant town on the high road between London and Bath. It is distant about ninety-seven miles from the former, and eleven miles from the latter place. The scenery around is extremely iuteresting, and the air highly favourable to the recovery of the valetudinarian. Although the town does not at present possess the splendid edifices of long-established watering-places, yet by its baths for hot, tepid,-and cold bathing, its beau- tiful and newly-erected lodging-houses near the Spa, and other increasing accommodations, it gives every promise that it will, in a few years, rival them in all desirable conveniences. Melk- sham possesses, besides a chalybeate spring, two wells, called the Old Spa and the New Spa. These hold in solution the same salts, but the Old Spa contains a larger proportion of them than the New Spa. According to the analj^sis by Dr. Gibbes their ingredients are muriate of soda, muriate of magnesia, muriate of lime, and the carbonate of lime, magnesia, and iron. The Melksham water is, therefore, aperient and tonic, possess- ing the active properties of the Cheltenham water. It will be found serviceable in the cui-e of scrofula, indigestion, bilious and cutaneous disorders, female diseases, and other maladies dependent on a depraved state of the alimentary canal and the organs connected with it. The dose is from half a pint to a pint, according to the constitution of the invalid. A course of it may be persevered in without interruption for a considerable length of time, even in states of apparently gi'eat prostration of strength, without producing any inconvenience to the system. Regular habits of life and daily exercise in the open air will greatly contribute to the beneficial effects of this water. MEMORY. All sorts of irregular living, late hours, and debauchery, and particularly in- attention to the standard rules of good living, as laid down in this work, impair the memory. Nobody who indulges in any or all of these has the least right to complain of a weak or a bad memory, as he is himself the plain cause of its destruction. Another common cause of weak memory, among those who are much employed at the desk, is long hours and hard study, by which not only the nerves are impaired, but what is still worse, the stomach is injured, and cannot prepare a due portion of nourishing blood to keep up the vigour of the nerves. The state of the head has very considerable influence on the memory. The briskness or slowness of the current of blood in the brain affects the powers of the mind in waking and in sleep, and this has precisely a similar effect on the memory. If the blood flow slowly and sluggishly through the brain the memory will be bad; if it flow briskly the memory will be clear and ready; and in pro- portion as the current of blood verges to one or other of these states will the memory partake of the circumstances attending these states, and be either bright or cloudy. Our attention then, in endeavouring to improve the memory, must be primarily directed to the current of blood through the brain. The follow- ing medicine for improving the memoiy has been famous from remote antiquity :—Take a table-spoonful of tincture of hyssop, and a single drop of oil of cinnamon. Mix, and put into