[ 206 ] MID MER noon when the extremity of the shortening shadow just touches the several circles, and there make marks; in the al'ternoon of the same day watch the lengthening shadow, and where its end touches the circles in getting over them, make marks there also. Lastly, with a pair of compasses find exactly the middle point between the two marks on any circle, and draw a line from the centre through that point, which will be the true meridian or twelve o'clock line, and exactly over which that of the dial is to be placed. Several circles are drawn, in case that at one time of the day it shall be clear, and at another cloudy ; and if, therefore, you should lose the time when one point of the shadow would touch one circle, vou may certainly have it in another. MERINGUES. Whisk the whites of nine eggs to a solid froth, then add the rind of six lemons grated extremely fine, and a spoonful of sifted sugar; after which lay a sheet of wet paper on a tin, and with a spoon drop the mixture in little lumps separately upon it; sift sugar over, and put tliem to bake in a mode- rately heated oven, taking care that they are done of a nice colour; then put raspberrj', apricot, or any other kind of jam between two of these bottoms, lay them together, and set them in a warm place or before the fire to dry. MERINGUES, ROSE. Beat to a stiff froth the whites of six eggs, and then beat in by degrees, a spoonful at a time, 1 lb. or more of finely powdered loaf sugar, till it is of the consistence of very thick icing, or meringue. Have ready a sufficient quantity of freshly gathered rose-buds about half grown, and, having removed the stalks and green leaves, take as many of the buds as will weigh 3 ozs. With a pair of sharp scissors clip or mince them as small as possible into the pan of meringue, stirring them in with a spoon; then stir the whole very hard. Have ready some sheets of white paper laid on baking tins; drop the meringues on it in heaps, all of the same size, and not too close together; smooth them with the back of a spoon or broad knife dipped in cold water, set them in a moderately cool oven, and bake them about twenty minutes. Take out one and try it, and if not thoroughly done let them continue longer in the oven. MESENTERY, in animal economy, signifies that fat membrane, or membranous duplicature, which is situated in the middle of the abdomen, for preventing the intestines from entangling with each other, as they lie in a small compass. It is^ nearly of a circular figure, being about four inches in diameter, but from three to four yards in circumference, on account of its plaits or foldings. The bowels are tied like a border around the mesentery, as the former are from ten to twelve yards in length, according to the size of the individual ; so that to every inch of this circumference there are fastened three inches of the latter. This membrane is by nature designed to support the intestines in their due place, to strengthen them, and to afford a situation to the lacteals, glands, nerves, blood-vessels, &c., which are connected with the bowels. From its im- portant use in the animal system it may be easily conceived that the mesentery is liable to be affected with various diseases, the origin and seat of which are often neither suspected nor clearly understood. It is, however, certain that a disordered state of the mesenteric glands generally lays the foundation of the rickets, scrofula, wens, white swellings, and early con- sumption. Hence the injury done to infants by stuffing them with superfluous or improper food— by allowing children promiscuously to eat cakes, gingerbread, and unripe fruit. One of the most fatal, however, is an inflammation of the mesen- tery and its glands, which, though difficult to ascertain, is not a rare occurrence. It is gene- rally accompanied with costiveness, and always with a retention of urine, but seldom with violent fever or pain; and, on examining the parts affected, there will appear a large swollen belly and a deep-seated tension in the abdomen. Sometimes blood and fetid matter are discharged by stool; and it is remarkable that male chil- dren are more frequently subject to it than those ot the female sex, and that the disorder, un- like other inflammations, may prey on the little patient for weeks before it be discovered, though in acute cases it proves suddenly fatal. As soon as the nature of this dangerous affec- tion is ascertained leeches ought to be applied to the lower belly, and a large blister to the small of the back. Emollient clysters ; fomenta- tions made of an infusion of camomile flowers, with the addition of laudanum ; and the tepid bath will also be of essential service. The patient's regimen and diet should be similar to that for inflammatory fever: he may likewise drink sweet whey with honey, or equal parts of Seltzer water and milk. With a view to check a debilitating looseness, he ought to take decoctions of the salep root, sago, tapioca, &c. METHEGLIN. See Mf.ad. MICE. We believe that pills containing phosphorus are the best poisons to employ for the destruction of these marauders. The fol- lowing mixture also lures and destroys them :— Black hellebore root powdered, 1 oz.; seeds of stavesacre powdered, 1 oz.; oatmeal, 2 lbs.; oil of caraway, 30 drops. Mix, and place little heaps of the powder near their haunts. MIDCALF : To Dress. Stuff a calf's