us Q V AL [ 519 ] spasm, opiates will prove higlily serviceable, either by the mouth or in form of clyster. For an injection take thin decoction of bark, 4 ozs.; olive oil, ^ oz.; wine, or tincture of opium, 1 drachm. For a draught take mucilage of gum arable, 1 oz.; olive oil, 2 drachms. Mix them in a mortar, and add spirit of nitric ether, 1 drachm : tincture of opium, 25 drops; fennel water, ^ oz. A suppression of urine has been removed by throwing cold water over the patient's thighs, and by applying ice to the bottom of the abdo- men when other remedies have failed. The muriated tincture of iron, 10 drops every ten minutes until some sensible effect is obtained, often proves efficacious in suppressions of urine; and in all irritations about the neck of the bladder, the liquor of potass, with the tincture of opium, is a very useful remedy. In desperate cases, when all medical means fail for the relief of suppressed urine, the operation of puncturing the bladder becomes necessary. USQUEBAUGH. Proof spirit, 1 gallon; stoned raisins, 1 lb. ; cinnamon, cloves, and nutmegs, of each ^ oz.; aniseed, 1 oz. ; hay saffron, ^ oz. ; brown sugar, 2 lbs.; rind of one orange. Digest fourteen days, then filter or clarify. Should it turn milky add a little strong spirit, or clarify it with alum, or filter through magnesia. UXBRIDGE CAKES. Take 1 lb. of flour, 7 lbs. of currants, half a nutmeg, and 4 lbs. of butter. Eub the butter cold into the flour, mix the currants therewith, and knead the whole with as much good yeast as will make it a light paste, after which let it stand an hour to rise. V, VACCINATION. See Cow Pox. VACCINE MATTER. This may be pre- served for a long time, pressed closely between two flat pieces of glass. The point of the lancet to be rubbed upon it at the time of vaccinating. Even the pustules, dried and reduced to powder, kept in a closely stopped phial, have imparted the cow pox, a little of the powder being spi'inkled on the wound made by the lancet. VALERIAN. The root of common valerian [Valeriana officinalis) is bitter and acrid, with a penetrating and fetid odour, very disagreeable to some persons, but not so much objected to by others ; but it has the singular power of attracting cats, which, as soon as they see the plant, roll upon it, and it is with difficulty that they can be driven from it. It seems to have the effect of causing a sort of intoxication similar to that produced by opium on Orientals. Used medicinally the root is gently stimulant, with a marked tendency towards the nervous system, but without any narcotic effect. In large doses it produces a sense of heaviness and dull pain in the head, with various otlier nervous indications. It is powerfully excitant, and acts secondarily as an antispasmodic, sudorific, and worm destroyer. It has been given with success, either alone or combined with Peruvian bark, in intermittent fevers. It is, in fact, held hj some to be very tonic and stimulant, and appears to be also slightly narcotic. The virtues of valerian root appear to depend on an essential volatile oil, which indicates the presence of much camphor. It has been advantageously employed in hysteria, hypochondriasis, epilepsy, &c. It may be given in substance, combined with a small portion of mace or cinnamon, or in the forms of infusion or tincture. The dose of the powdered root may be from 1 scruple to 1 drachm three or four times a day. An infusion may be made by pouring 7 fluid ozs. of boiling water upon 2 drachms of the root coarsely powdered, di- gesting for an hour, and, when the liquor is cold, straining. The dose is from 1 fluid oz. to 2 fluid ozs. twice or thrice a day. It should not be given with solutions of sulphate of iron, nor with infusions of yellow bark, as these are decomposed by it. VALET. For the following we are indebted to Webster and Parkes' " Encyclopoedia of Domestic Economy : "— In small families he is expected to assist as footman also : but his particular province is to attend exclusively to the personal accommodation of his master. Upon him he waits during all times of dressing and undressing; brushes, folds up his clothes, or places them in readiness for him. All repairs he sees done ; and, on putting away cloth clothes into a wardrobe, he uses the precaution of covering them with brown holland or linen wrappers to secure them from dust. Boots and shoes should be placed every morning ready in the dressing room. The valet should see that the housemaid cleans the grate, lights the fire, and sweeps and dusts the room, while he prepares the washing-table by filling the ewer with soft water, and the carafe with fresh spring water, and by putting in their right places basins, towels, and brushes; hot water and the shaving apparatus should be at hand; the linen and slippers airing at the fire; and the rest of the apparel to be worn hung across the backs of cliairs, and covered over with holland wrappers. After the dressing is over the valet should take the earliest opportunity of cleaning and