MIN [ 216 3 MIN 2 lbs. of beef suet freed from the skin and filaments, and minced veiy small. Mix the suet and the lean beef well together, and add 1 lb. of brown sugar. Pick, wash, and dry before the fire 2 lbs. of Zante cur- rants ; stone and chop 2 lbs. of the hest raisins. Grate the yellow rind of three large lemons or oranges into a saucer, and squeeze upon it the juice through a strainer. Mix this with the currants and raisins. Prepare a lieaped-up table-spoonful of powdered cinna- mon, the same quantity of powdered ginger, a heaped tea-spoonful of powdered nutmeg, the same of powdered clo%'es, and the same of pow- dered mace. Mix all these spices with a quart of the best West India molasses ; then mix well together the meat and the fruit, and wet the whole with the spiced molasses, of which you must have enough to make the mixture very moist, but not too thin. If you want the mincemeat for immediate use add to it 4 lbs. of minced apple; add also ^ lb. of citron, not minced, but cut into long slips. If you intend the mincemeat for keeping do not add the apple and citron until you are about to make the pies, as it will keep better Avithout them. Mix all the other articles thoroughly, and pack down the mincemeat hard in small stone jars. Lay upon the top of it a round of thin white paper dipped in molasses, and cut exactly to fit the inside circumference of the jar. Secure the jars closely with flat, tight-fitting corks or bungs, then with a lid, and paste paper down over the top on the outside. West India molasses will be found a good substitute for the wine and brandy generally used to moisten mincemeat. MINDEREKUS'S SPIRIT. ^See Ammonia, Acetate of. MINT CREAM. Put into the bain-marie still a gallon of brandy, 12 ozs. of fresh-gathered mint, and the rinds of three lemons ; distil from this two quarts of liqueur, in which dissolve 1 drachm of essence of mint; put 1^ lb. of sugar into two quarts of water, and when entirely dissolved add the syrup to your liqueur. Strain and bottle it. MINT JELLY. Put f lb. of sugar into a pveserving-pan, and when nearly boiling throw in 12 drachms of fresh-gathered mint and the rinds of two lemons; cover it, and leave it to get lukewarm. Dissolve ^ drachm of essence of mint in a glass of tepid water and half a gLiss of kirschwasser, and mix these with the lukewarm sugar and^l oz. of clarified isinglass, also lukewarm. Strain the whole through a silk sieve, and finish as usual. MINT JULEP (1). Strip the tender leaves of mint into a tumbler, and add to them as much wire, brandy, or any other spirit as you wish to take. Put some pounded ice into a second tumbler; pour this on the mint and brandy, and continue to pour the mixture from one tum- bler to the other until the whole is sufficiently impregnated with the flavour of the mint, which is extracted by the particles of the ice coming into brisk contact when changed from one vessel to the other. Now place the glass in a larger one containing pounded ice, on taking it out of which it will be covered with frostwork. MINT JULEP (2). This, the favourite beverage of the Americans, is, according to Captain Marryat, prepared as follows. AVe give the recipe in the captain's own words :—" I must descant a little upon the mint julep, as it is, with the thermometer at lOO", one of the most delightful and insinuating potations that ever was invented, and may be drank with equal satisfaction when the thermometer is as low as 70°. There are many varieties, such as those composed of claret, Madeira, &c., but the ingre- dients of the real mint julep are as follow. I learned how to make it, and succeeded pretty well:—Put into a tumbler about a dozen sprigs of the tender shoots of mint; upon them put a spoonful of white sugar, and equal proportions of peach and common brandy, so as to fill it up one-third, or perhaps a little less; then take rasped or pounded ice, and fill up the tumbler. Epicures rub the lips of the tumbler with a piece of fresh pine-apple, and the tumbler itself is very often incrusted outside with stalactites of ice. As the ice melts you drink." MINT, LIQUEUR OP. Take two hands- ful of fresh-gathered garden mint, and infuse it for some days in a gallon and a half of brandy and a quart of water; then distil it as usual. Dissolve Si lbs. of sugar in seven pints of water, mix the syrup with the liquor, and run the whole through a jelly bag. MINT SAUCE (1). Pick and wash some green mint, add when minced a table-spoonful of the young leaves to four of vinegar, and put it into a sauce tureen, with a tea-spoonful of brown sugar. _ MINT SAUCE (2). Wash half a handful of nice young fresh-gathered green mint (to this some add one-third the quantity of parsley), pick the leaves from the stalks, mince them very fine, and put them into a sauce-boat, with a tea- spoonful of moist sugar and four table-spoonsful of vinegar. MINT SOUFFLfi. Take some fresh-gathered mint leaves, put them with the rinds of two lemons into the milk, strain, and finish as directed in Souffle. MINT VINEGAR. Take i oz. of mint, dry and pound it, pour over it a quart of the best vinegar, and let it steep for ten days, shaking it up every day.