TUR VOL. II. 2 L dislies may lie sei'ved of veal or sturfreou dressed as iu the foregoing receipts for Turtle Soup, two tiinbales at the side, one with the chitterlings in fricassee, the other with two sets of sucking pigs' lungs, and dressed highly seasoned; or they may be served in open dishes with pastry borders (strong white wine will do as well as Madeira), with two tureens of soup. Imitation turtle made as above has deceived not only good judges by its appearance and taste, but by its easy digestion, which is the principal thing desired in making any deviation from the present established and much-admired dish. TURTLE SOUP. The day before you dress a turtle chop the herbs, and make the forcemeat; then, on the preceding evening, suspend the turtle by the two hind fins with a cord, and put one i-ound the neck, with a heavy weight attached to draw it out, that the head may be cut off with more ease : let the turtle hang all night, in which time the blood will be well drained from the body. Then, early in the morning, having your stoves and plenty of hot water in readiness, take the turtle, lay it on the table on its back, and with a strong pointed knife cut out all the under shell, which is the calipee. There are joints at each end, which must be carefully found, gently separating it from the calipash, which is the upper shell: be careful, then, in cutting out the gut, that you do not break the gall. When the calipee and the calipash are separated take out that part of the gut that leads from the throat; that, with the heart, put into a basin of water by them- selves ; the other interior part put away. Take the calipee, and cut off the meat which adheres to it in four quarters, laying it on a clean dish. Take 20 lbs. of veal, chop it up, set it in a large pot, putting in the flesh of the turtle at the same time, with all kinds of turtle soup herbs, onions, carrots, l^lb. of lean ham, peppercorns, salt, a little spice, and two bay leaves, leaving it to stew till it takes the colour of Espagnole ; put the fins (the skin can be scalded off) and heart in half an hour before you fill it with half water, and half beef stock ; then carefully skim it, put in a bunch of parsley, and let it boil gently like consomme. While the turtle is stewing carefully scald the head, the calipee, and all that is soft of the calipash, attentively observing to take off the smallest particle of skin that may remain ; put them with the gut into a large pot of water to boil till tender, and when this is the case take them out, and cut them in squares, putting them into a basin by themselves till wanted for the soup. The next thing is the thicken- ing of the soup, which must be prepared in the same manner as sauce tovrnee. The turtle being well done, take out the heart and fins, ai.d lay them on a dish. The whole liquor must pass through a sieve into a lai'ge pan ; then with a ladle take off all the fat, put it into a basin, and mix with it the turtle liquor (a small quantity at a time), with the thicken- ing made the same as sauce tournee; but it does not require to be one-twentieth part so thick; set it over a brisk fire, continue stir- ring till it boils, and when it has boiled two hours, being skimmed all the while, squeeze it through a tammy into another large stewpan, put it on the fire, and stir it as before till it boils. When it has boiled gently for one hour put in the calipee and calipash, with the gut, heart, and some of the best meat and head, all cut in squares, with the forcemeat balls and herbs, which you should have ready chopped and stewed: the herbs are paisley, lemon thyme, marjoram, basil, savory, and a few chopped mushrooms. It must carefully be at- tended to and skimmed, and one hour and a half before dinner put in a bottle of Madeira wine, and nearly half a bottle of brandy, keep- ing it continually boiling gently, and skimming it, then take a basin, and put a little Cayenne pepper into it, with the juice of si.x lemons squeezed through a sieve. When the dinner is wanted skim the turtle, stir it well up, and put in a little salt if necessary; then stir in the Cayenne and lemon juice, and lade it into the tureen. This receipt will answer for a turtle between 50 lbs. and 60 lbs. TURTLE SOUP, MOCK (1). Take 6 lbs. of beefsteak, 2 lbs. of veal cuttings, and some fowl trimmings; put them into a large sauce- pan, with equal quantities of consomme and veal blond, two carrots, and an onion stuck with two cloves ; set it on the fire, and when it is reduced to consomme add a bottle of Madeira wine ; tie a few berries of allspice and a little mace in a cloth, and put in; set it on the fire, in about three hours' time add thirty champignons, two sweetbreads cut in pieces like the head, fifteen cocks' combs, thirty kidneys, and thii'ty fowl quenelles. When the whole is sufficiently done skira off all the fat from the soup, which should be clean, and of a deep colour. Put two poached eggs in a soup tureen, on which pour the soup, and serve. TURTLE SOUP, MOCK (2). Prepare a large calf's head with the skin, with rather more than half stock meat and veal knuckles, allowing more than 3 lbs. to each quart of water. After it has been well and very slowly simmered, the water hardly moving for three or four hours, take up the head and knuckles, and let iheni cool, cut the head into proper pieces, and with the meat of the knuckles make plenty of nice