t 217 ] MOL MIN MINT WATER (1). Take 4 lbs. of dried spearmint, two gallons and a half of proof spirits, and three gallons of water. Distil them, and sweeten the water with 1| lb. of sugar. MINT WATER (2). Take 4 lbs. of dried mint, two gallons and a half of proof spirits, and three gallons of water. Distil them, and sweeten the water with 1^ lb. of sugar. MITES. See Cheese: To Peeseevb. MIXTURE. See Julep, which it nearly resembles. MOCK TURTLE. See Toetle, Mock. MOFFAT WATER. The village of Moffat, surrounded by lofty hills, is situated at the head of a valley on the banks of the Annan, about fifty-six miles south-west of Edinburgh. The chief of the sulphureous waters which have given, celebrity to this watering-place is contained within a stone building inclosing a pump. The supply of water is sufficient for every demand. When first drawn it appears rather milky and bluish. The smell resembles that of bilge water, being precisely the same as that of Harrowgate, and the taste is saline and sulphureous, but not bitter. When exposed to the air it becomes more turbid, then separates a thin film, which is pure sulphur, and loses thereby all its distinguishing qualities as a sul- phureous water. As this change takes place even in close vessels it cannot bear transporting to any distance. A wine gallon of Moffat water contains, according to Dr. Garnet's analysis,—- Muriate of soda . Carbonic acid gas Azotic gas . . Sulphuretted hydrogeo Grains. . 80 Cutic inches . 5 . 4 . 10 19 It is, therefore, more simple than the Harrowgate water, and produces, consequently, effects some- what different, having a determination to the urinary organs, without any certain operation on the alimentary canal, unless when taken in a very large dose. Some purgative salts, there- fore, should always be conjoined with the internal use of this water, to keep the bowels regular. Its medical virtue depends principally on the sulphuretted hydrogen gas which it contains, and which has a powerful influence on the secretory organs, but particularly on the skin, through the innumerable pores of which it operates with considerable activity. It is as efficient in the cure of many chronic diseases as mercury, and possesses this superiority—that its continued use induces no debility or distressing consequences. Moffat water is a decided alterative, and is employed principally for the cure of cutaneous disorders. In these cases its sulphureous warm , baths are judiciously made a part of the plan of treatment. In the early stages of scrofula it is often of infinite benefit. Glandular tumours are fre- quently dispersed by its use, without suppura- tion or any unpleasant consequences. As an internal remedy this water is prescribed in various quantities, according to the age, sex, disease, and morbid irritability of the stomach. The dose is usually from one English pint to four pints, drunk in divided portions, and with a sufficient interval of time interposed between them. MOLASSES. See Teeacle. MOLASSES BREAD CAKE. On a bread- making day, when the wheat bread has risen perfectly light, and is cracked on the surface, take as much of the dough as will fill a quart bowl, and place it in a broad pan. Cut up ^ lb. of fresh butter, and set it over the fire to warm and soften, but do not let it melt to an oil. When quite soft mix with it half a pint of West India molasses, a small table-spoonful of pow- dered cinnamon, and the finely grated yellow rind of a large orange or lemon, adding also the juice. Have ready three eggs well beaten, and add them gradually to the mixture. It must form a lump of soft dough, but not too thin to knead with your hands. Knead it well on the paste board for a quarter of an hour. Butter some tin pans, put an equal portion of the dough into each, cover them, and set them in a warm, but not a hot place for a quarter of an hour before baking; then bake the cakes well. Instead of small pans you may bake the whole of the dough in one large one. This cake should be eaten the day it is baked, fresh, but not warm. All sweet cakes in which yeast is an ingredient are best and most wholesome when fresh, as the next day they become hard, dry, and com- paratively heavy. MOLASSES CAKE. Cut up ^ lb. of fresh butter into a pint of West India molasses, warm itjust sufficiently to moisten the butter and make it mix easily, stir them well togethei", and add a table-spoonful of powdered cinnamon; beat three eggs till very light, and stir them gi'adually into the mixture, in turn with barely eno ugii sifted flour (not more than a pint and a h alf) to make it about as thick as pound-cake batt er: add at the last a small or level tea-spoonful of bicarbonate of potash, or a full one of bicarbona te of soda, dissolved in a very little warm water. Butter some small tin cake pans or patty pans, put in the mixture, and set them immediately into the oven, which must not be too hot, as ail cakes made with molasses are peculiarly liable to scorch on the outside.