[ 569 ] WOO woo and bake them in a moderate oven. When done lay them on a dish to drain ; then put them into the proper pots, cover them with the butter in which they were baked, and lay over them some that is clarified. Snipes may be done in the same way. WOODCOCKS : To Truss. These birds, being very tender, must be picked with great care, particularly if they are not quite fresh. When picked clean cut off the pinions at the first joint, and press the breast-bone till it is flat; bring the thighs close to the pinions, put a skewer through each of the last, so as to run it quite through the thighs, body, and opposite pinion; skin the head, trim it, and, having taken out the eyes, put it on the point of the skewer with the bill close to the breast. Wood- cocks, snipes, and plovers are all trussed alike, but must not be drawn. WOODCOCKS A LA DUCHESSE. Split six woodcocks down the back, and take out all the inside to make a farce, with two pounded anchovies, half a spoonful of capers, parsley, shallots, and mushi'ooms, all chopped very small, and mixed with a good bit of butter, a little scraped bacon, the yolks of two eggs, pepper, and salt; put this into the woodcocks, sew them up closely, and braise them with a few slices of veal and one slice of ham ; cover them with thin slices of bacon; add a glass and a half of red wine, and a few spoonsful of cullis. When done strain and skim the sauce, and thicken it with butter and flour. WOODCOCKS, FARCED. Split the wood- cocks at the back, take out all the inside, and mix it with scraped bacon, chopped parsley, shallots, pepper, and salt; stuff the woodcocks with this, and sew them up; wrap them in slices of bacon, and over that paper; then put them down to roast, and serve them with what sauce or ragout you think best. WOODCOCKS IN A MINUTE. Put a brace of woodcocks into a frying-pan, with some butter, shred shallots, grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper; set the pan on a fierce fire, and fry the woodcocks lightly for seven or eight minutes ; then add the juice of two lemons, half a glass of white wine, and some raspings, and leave them on the fire till the sauce has boiled up once ; then serve all up together. WOODCOCKS AU KESTAUEANT. Take a leash of woodcocks ; take the trails from two of the finest, with which mince and mix some calf's liver; stuff them, and roast all three. When the bird that has the trail in is about two-thirds done take it up, pound it, bones and all, boil it with equal quantities of stock and claret, with salt, pepper, and shallots, and when it has boiled half an hour rub it through a sieve, and serve it in the dish with the roasted woodcocks. WOODCOCKS, ROASTED. They must not be drawn ; but truss their legs close to the body, run an iron skewer through each thigh, tie them on a bird-spit, and put them down to a clear fire. Cut a slice of bread for each bird, toast or fry it brown, and lay the same under the roast to catch the trail; baste with butter, and froth with flour; lay the toast on a hot dish, and the birds on that; pour some beef gravy into the dish, and also send some up in a boat. Twenty or thirty minutes will do them. Garnish with lemon. WOODCOCKS, SALMIS OF. Take three cold roasted woodcocks ; cut them up, trim the pieces, and put all the best parts into a stew- pan ; put the remnants into a mortar, with a pinch of parsley leaves, six shallots, a bay leaf, garlic if liked, and pepper; pound these well, and put them into another stewpan, with a little melted butter; set them on the fire for about ten minutes, and then add a glasj of white wine, three ladlesful of consomme, and six of Esf)agnole; reduce to half, rub it through a bolting sieve, and pour it over the wood- cocks ; make the whole hot without boiling, and serve it with sippets in the dish. WOODCOCKS, STEWED. Slit them, but do not take out the inside; fry them in melted bacon just to brown them; then put them into a stewpan, with some salt, pepper, good gravy, and mushroom powder; add a little lemon juice, and let the whole stew gently. WOODCOCKS EN SURTOUT. Make a forcemeat with some veal, as much beef suet chopped and beaten in a mortar, an equal quan- tity of crumbs of bread, with a little beaten mace, pepper, salt, some parsley, and a few sweet herbs: mix all up with the yolk of an egg. Half roast your woodcocks; then lay some of the forcemeat round a small baking dish ; chop the trails, strew them all over the dish, and lay in the woodcocks; put into a stewpan truf- fles, morels, mushrooms, and a parboiled sweet- bread cut into pieces ; let them stew together, beat them up with a little white wine, then pour to them some good gravy, and keep stir- ring till of a proper consistence ; set it to cool, then pour it over the woodcocks, and lay the yolks of hard-boiled eggs all about; work up the remainder of the forcemeat, roll it out like paste, cover the dish with it, close the edges, wash it over with yolk of egg, and set it iu the oven. It will take half an hour to bake. Serve it to table very hot. WOODCOCKS, TUREEN OF. Take as many woodcocks as your tureen will require; take out the trails, and make them into a farce with some pounded bacon, butter, meat, herbs, and anchovies ; stuff your birds with this farce, place them in a braising-pan between slices of