THE T HI [ 488 } tion commences with the boiling point, which is marked 0°, and the freezing is 150°. Each degree of Fahrenlieit's scale is equal to gths of a degree on Reaumur's. If, therefore, the number of degrees on Fahrenheit's scale, above or below the freezing point of water, be multiplied by 4, and divided by 9, the quotient will be the corresponding degree of Reaumur. To reduce the degrees of Reaumur to those of Fahrenheit they are to be multiplied by 9, and divided by 4. Every degree of Fahrenheit is equal to gths of a degree on tlie centigrade scale. The same method must be adopted in reducing these re- spectively as is directed in the preceding para- graphs relative to Reaumur's thermometer, using, of course, 5 and 9 as multiplier and divisor. When a thermometer is intended to measm'e very low temperatures spirit of wine is em- ployed in its construction, as that fluid has never been known to freeze, whereas the low temperature at which it boils renders it unfit for measuring high temperatures. Quicksilver will indicate the degree of 500 of Fahrenheit, but freezes at 40° below 0°. For measuring intense degrees of heat an instrument has been contrived called a jn/ro7neter. THETFORD WATER. The town of Thetford, situated partly in the hundred of Shropham, county of Norfolk, and partly in the hundred of Lackford, in the county of Suffolk, distant thirty miles S.W. from Norwich, and eighty miles N.N.E. from London, possesses a chalybeate spring. Its composition in a gallon is as follows :— Grains. Carbonate of iron . . . 2-75 Cliloride of magnesium . . 3-25 Chloride of calcium . . 2'2o Sulphate of magnesia . . 1'25 Chloride of sodium . . 2'125 Sulphate of lime ; , . 3" 14625 Cubic inches. Carbonic acid gas. . . 12 07 Oxygen gas . . , . 1-21 Atmospheric air . , . 3'04 16-33 This water thus appears to be one of the strongest cbalybeates with which we are ac- quainted. It exerts on the human constitution an influence equally active as the Tonbridge water. It requires the same precautions in its use, and it is applicable to the same diseases. THICKENING (1). It is customary to thicken some dishes with a compound of two parts flour and one of butter, first made into a paste by beating slowly the ingredients in a pan till the mass acquires a pure gold colom*, the flour and butter being stirred all the time, to prevent the mass from buining at the bottom of the pan. The substance thus obtained is called thickening, or thickening paste. The mass readily combines with water. A large table- spoonful is sufficient to thicken a quart of meat broth. Besides this thickening paste other farinaceous substances are employed for that purpose, such as bread raspings, crumbs of stale bread, biscuit powder, potato mucilage, oatmeal, sago powder, rice powder, &c. A cow-heel, on account of the vast quantity of gelatine with which it abounds, is well calculated for giving body to soup. The cow-heel, after being cracked, is boiled with the broth or soup. THICKENING (2). Clarified butter is best for this purpose; but if you have none ready put some fresh butter into a stewpan over a clear slow fire, and when it is melted add sufficient fine flour to make it the thickness of paste; stir it well together with a wooden spoon for fifteen or twenty minutes till it is quite smooth, and the colour of a sovereign. This must be done very gradually and patiently. If you put it over too fierce a fire to hurry it, it will become bitter and empyreuraatic. Pour it into an earthen pan, and keep it for use. It will keep good a fortnight in summer, and longer in winter. A large spoonful will be, in general, enough to thicken a quart of gravy. This in the French kitchen is called rovx. Be particularly attentive in making it. If it gets any burnt smell or taste it will spoil eveiy- thing it is put into. When cold it should be thick enough to cut out with a knife like a solid paste. If the gravies, &c., are too thin, use more or less thickening according to the con sistence you would wish them to have. In making thickening the less butter and more flour you use the better. They must be thoroughly worked together, and the broth or soup, &c., you put them to added by degrees. Take especial care to incorporate them together, or your sauces, &c., will taste floury, and have a disgusting greasy appearance; therefore, after you have thickened your sauce, add to it some broth or warm water, in the proportion of two table-spoonsful to a pint, and set it by the side of the fire, to raise any fat, &c., that is not thoroughly incorporated with the grav}'', which you must carefully remove as it comes to the top. This is called cleansing or finishing the sauce. Half an ounce of butter and a table- spoonful of flour are about the proportions to a pint of sauce to make it as thick as cream. The fat skimmings at the top of the broth- pot are sometimes substituted for butter. Some cooks merely thicken their soups and sauces with flour.