[ 439 ] SIB SHE to go tlirougli tlie lialr, which the attendant domestic spreads open : it is perfectly dry in the course of two minutes, besides being im- pregnated with the fragrant perfume of the ben- zoin. In India manj'' ladies wear no oil-skin upon their heads during the bath, and are there- fore obliged to dry their hair every day, which is always done in the manner described with- out the least trouble or difficulty. To the person using the shower-bath every morning the warm bath may not be necessary more than once or twice a week; but every in- dividual must consult his own idiosyncrasies, and regulate his warm bathing accordingly. The shower-bath ought to be used every day, although some practitioners recommend it every other day, and sometimes once only in three days. Some constitutions also may find it necessary to leave off the shower-bath during the three winter months, though we must observe, in favour of the continued use of it, that those who take the shower-bath throughout the winter are effectually guaranteed from catch- ing cold.—[Magazine of Domestic Economy.) SHRIMP PIE. Pick a quart of slirimps, and if very salt only season them with mace and one or two cloves; mince two or three an- chovies, mix them with the spicery, and season the shrimps; put some butter at the bottom of the dish, and pour over the shrimps a glass of sharp white wine ; cover the whole with a puff paste, and bake the pie in a moderate oven. SHRI]\IP SAUCE. Pick a pint of shrimps : clean, wash, and put them into a pint of melted butter. Some persons stew the heads and shells with mace fifteen minutes, and strain off the liquor for the purpose of melting butter with, adding thereto alittle lemon juice, Cayenne, essence of anchovy, or soy; but, as the latter destroy the flavour of the shrimps, they should be omitted. SHRIMP SOUP. See Peawns, Soup of. SHRIMPS : To Choose, These fish, when fresh, are hard, stiff, and of a pleasant smell, but the contrary when stale, besides which they will then be slimy and of a pale colour. SHRIMPS : To Gbill. Stew the shrimps in a little water, with salt, pepper, and shred parsley; butter some scallop shells, and put in some grated bread, on which lay the shrimps; cover them with bread, add a little more butter, set them on the gridiron for a short lime, brown them with a salamander, and serve. SHRIMPS: To Stew. See Prawns: To Stew. SHRIMPS IN A GRATIN. Take oiie or two quarts of shrimps, according to the size you wish the dish; pick and toss them hi a good bechamel, witli a little lobster spawn mixed in it, as directed for Lobster Sauce ; make tho whole very hot, and add the squeeze of a lemon ; then lay it on a dish, and strew crumbs of bread over it the same as for other gratins. Colour it with the salamander before it is served to the table. SHRIMPS, POTTED. Boil them in salt and water, and when picked strew over them beaten mace, grated nutmeg or allspice, pepper, and salt; add thereto a little cold butter, and pound the whole well till it is of the consistence of paste. Pot and cover it with clarified butter, and tie some bladder over it. SHROPSHIRE PIE. Make a good puff paste ; cut two rabbits in pieces, with 2 lbs. of fat pork chopped small, season with pepper and salt; cover your dish with the crust, and lay in the rabbits, with the pork intermixed. Par- boil the livers of the rabbits, and beat them in a mortar, with as much fat bacon and a few sweet herbs ; season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; mix with the yolk of an egg, make it into balls, and throw them into the pie ; grate some nutmeg over the meat, and put in a pint and a half of water. Bake the pie an hour and a half in a quick oven. SHRUB. Rum, 1 gallon; orange juice, 1 pint; lemon juice, 1 pint; the peels of two oranges; the peel of one lemon. Mix, and let them stand for twenty-four hours ; strain, and add 4 lbs. of loaf sugar dissolved in five pints of water. The above makes rum shrub, and brandy shrub is made in the same way, substituting that spirit for the rum. SHRUB, CURRANT. To a quart of rum or brandy put three quarters of a pint of the strained juice of red or white cun-ants, half the rind of a Seville orange, and a little nutmeg. After standing one or two days well corked add a pint of sherry, with fib. of loaf sugar, and strain it, as soon as the sugar is dis- solved, through a flannel bag. Bottle it for use. Red currants will be best for brandy, and white for rum. Good raisin wine may be mounted or substituted for sherry. SHRUB, ORANGE. Put 10 lbs. of crushed sugar to two gallons of water, and boil it till it be dissolved; skim it well, and put it into a tub. When quite cold pour it into a barrel, and add three quarts of Jamaica rum and six quarts of orange juice (take care there are no pips); beat up the white of an egg, mix it with the shrub, and let it stand for a week; then dravv it off and bottle. SIBERIAN CRABS : To Preserve. Take their weight in sugar, and make a syrup with apple jelly. When well boiled prick the crabs, and put them into it; let them boil a few minutes,