[ 244 3 NAI NAI proceeds from one of the causes mentioned above, and from neglecting to apply the proper remedy already described. The unequal distribution which is sometimes- made of the nourishment to the nails renders them uneven and rugged. This deformity may easily be corrected by means of a little bit of bacon applied over the nail, and covered with a linen rag. The bacon must be renewed every three days. One cannot express how effec- tual this simple remedy is for occasioning an equal distribution of the nourishment to the nail, and by this means rendering its surface smooth and even. Speckles on the nails occur when some of the particles of the juice which nourishes the nail happen to be intercepted in different places under its substance ; for then these particles, which are naturally white, being disengaged from the red blood with which they were mixed in the vessels, and appearing through the transparent horn of the nail, make it seem speckled with little white spots. This little blemish sometimes goes off of its own accord by the growing of the nail, which, as it shoots out in length, carries the specks along with it; but sometimes it is as lasting as that little spot, iji the form of a crescent, at the root of the nail, which is one of its beauties. In this case we must have recourse to art to disperse those little specks; and, as they are only accidental, and have not the same origin with that little white spot at the root of the nail which is natural, and an ornament to it, we may deface the former without hurting the latter. But by what means is this to be done? By applying over the nail a compress, wetted in spirit of wine and camphor, and leaving it there several days, wetting it from time to time in spirit of wine, and taking care to remove it as soon as the marbling of the nail disappears. Chinks of the nails, whether they be across it or lengthways, are commonly occasioned by acrid and corrosive salts carried along by the mass of blood, and stopped in the substance of the nail. The method of sweetening those salts is to bathe the nail frequently with warm milk, mixed with a little water in which a small piece of the root of marsh-mallows has been gently boiled; and, as those acrid salts are sup- plied by the mass of blood, it will be proper to join with this external remedy some sweetening broths, together with the use of bleeding and aperients. The broth ought to be made with a very little piece of veal and mutton, half a small pullet, and three or four crabs, the whole to serve for two messes of clear broth, one of which must be taken in the morning when you get up, and the other two hours after. The aperient ought to be very simple: a little manna dissolved in a mess of broth is sufficient. If the quantity of manna taken at first does not purge at all, or operates too gently, take a larger dose the next morning, or the day after the next, for it is very certain that there is no sweetening aperient more effectual than manna. The nail of itself has no colour; it is nothing but a transparent piece of horn, which transmits the colour of whatever is placed im- mediately below it. But the flesh and its blood-vessels lie immediately under the nail, or else there is some extravasated liquor lodged between the nail and the flesh, and by this means the nail appears of the same colour as the flesh below it, or the extravasated liquor, if there be any there. The most beautiful colour of nails is that of the pale rose ; every other colour of the nail is faulty. There are some nails as white as paper, others as red as blood, and others of the colour of a cherry. The white ones resemble those of a dying person; the very red ones have something rustic about them; and the cherry-coloured ones, though they do not offend the eye so much as the other two, yet they are not agreeable; but it is only the true colour of the flesh, that is to say, of the pale rose, that pleases the sight. Those fingers that are every way well shaped, and have nails of this colour, have nails as perfect as they can be. Some nails are attached very firmly to the flesh ; others more loosely. When the nail compresses the flesh too strongly it appears white; when it does not press it enough it appears of the natural colour of the flesh below it; and when the compression is neither too strong nor too gentle it appears commonly a little paler than the flesh, of the colour of a beautiful pale rose, taking it for granted, in the meantime, that the flesh upon which the nail lies is of a lively red, as it ought always to be. As a proof of what we have said you need only press the upper pait of the nail a little, and you will see it immediately grow pale if it is naturally red, and if it is white it will appear still whiter. The reason of this is that, in pressing upon the nail, you press likewise the flesh, which be- comes whiter by the pressure, because the red particles of blood which filled its transparent vessels, and made it appear red, are thereby repelled. If, instead of pressing the upper part of the nail, you press its sides, in the same