SLE SLE [ ] tlie least consequence. You can do tliis in every case but ^vlien you have to join a cut edge and a selvage, and must begin at the bottom, in order to have tlie selvage uppermost. 5. That you must remember that gored skirts liang lower at the bottom of the gores than either before or behind, and that the first turning in of the hem should be therefore laid in rather deeper at the sides of the skirt. 6. That you should make your fastenings so good as that the dress may wear out before they give way. This is particularly important with regard to the pocket-holes and the opening beliind, which should be well secured by stitching, or a bar at the turn. It is very trying to a lady to find her skirt slit down behind the first time she slips her gown over her head, or her pocket- hole give way before she has put her hand into it half a dozen times. SLEEP and wakefulness are nearly in the same relation to each other as exercise and rest. Waking always presupposes a certain degi'ee of activity: all the natural functions—digestion, the preparation of the chyle and blood, assimila- tion, secretion, and excretion—are then more vigorously performed, and would soon exhaust their powers if sleep did not restore to them the beneficial and indispensable supplies. Sleep is therefore necessary to existence and health, and it is an improper and fruitless attempt to deprive ourselves, by an ill-directed activity, of the requisite portion of this refresh- ment ; for nature will maintain her rights in spite of our efforts to subvert them, and both body and mind will suffer without attaining any real advantage from an extravagant watchfuL ness. When the body is fatigued, and the senses, together with the voluntary motion of the muscles, have for some time been active, we stand in need of the alternation of rest which is obtained by sleep. During a sound sleep the senses and the voluntary muscular motions are not exercised; but the vital functions, such as respiration and the circulation of the blood, as ■well as most of the natural functions afore- mentioned, are regularly though more slowly performed. While we are asleep the motion of the heart and the blood-vessels, even the action of the brain and the nervous system, as likewise the peristaltic or vermicular motion of the sto- mach and the intestines, and the secretion of the fluids, are performed in a uniform and steady manner. Previously to sleep we perceive a languor of the senses, of the muscles which are subject to our will, and of those also which keep the body in an erect posture; the head inclines downwards, the upper eyelid and the lower jawbone likewise sink, the venous blood accumulates towards the heart, and compels ua to yawn, in order to facilitate the transition of the blood into the lungs by the deep breathing which takes place. Finally, the brain itself, as the organ of the mind, appears to be fatigued: hence our ideas become irregular, and there arises a slight imbecility of the understanding. That the motions of the heart are stronger during sleep, and that perspiration is more active, must be ascribed to the warmth of the bedclothes, by which the insensible perspiration softens and relaxes the skin. But a person who sleeps in his usual dress will feel chilly, and those animals that sleep long, as the hedge- hog and marmot, suffer an extraordinary degree of cold. The proximate cause of sleep appears to be an impeded motion of the nervous fluid in the brain. This motion is produced by a kind of collapse of the subtle insertions of the nerves, as well as by a mechanical compression of them. Hence we can explain how things so totally opposite are able to produce sleep, when they either exhaust or compress the tubes of the nerves. Of the former kind are every violent and fatiguing species of labour, a considerable loss of blood, perspiration increased by external heat, and everything that withdraws the blood from the head; for instance, warm bathing of the lower extremities, a stomach filled with much food, &c. Of the latter kind of incite- ments to sleep, namely, those that act by com- pression, is every mechanical pressure on the brain, whether it proceeds from water accumu- lated in its ventricles, from a local depression or fracture of the cranium, or from extravasated blood. In like manner the impeded regress of the blood from the brain, or the increased access of it to that organ, may effect such a pressure by distending the blood-vessels, as is the case in using narcotics, or wine and other spirituous liquors; and lastly, an intense de- gree of cold, as well as the state of an approach- ing apoplexy. Sleep is promoted by tranquillity of mind ; by the absence of every stimulus to the body; by silence and darkness around us; by a complete rest of the senses ; by gently and uniformly affecting one of the senses—for instance, by music or reading ; and lastly, by a gentle e.xternal motion of the whole body, as by rocking or sailing. On the other hand, every painful sensation, a great noise, a bright light, strong exertion of mental powers, and par- ticularly violent passions, are calculated to prevent sleep. Thus likewise sleep may be impeded by hot, spicy, and other stimulating drinks, which are said to occasion a more speedy secretion of the nervous fluid. To continue awake beyond a proper time consumes the vital spirits, disorganises the nerves, and causes so many uneasy sensations.