[ 18T ] MAR MAR it be In a cask have it unhooped, and thrust your knife between the staves into the middle of it, and then you cannot be deceived ; for in the middle of the cask is frequently a different sort from that at the top, which is artfully introduced by those who send it from the country. Capon. A good capon mil have a fat thick rump and belly, a fat vein under the wing, and on the side of the breast. If young he will have a short, blunt spur and smooth legs ; but look narrowly, for fear his spurs be cut, pared, or scraped smaller; and if you mistrust his being old pinch him on the breast with your thumb, and if it is soft, receiving the pinch easily, he is a young one; but if hard, then he is old. If he is pale about the head, and has a short comb, then he is young; if red about the head he is no clean capon. If new he will have a close, hard vent; if stale, a loose, open one. Capons are of a right age at eight or nine months. A capon fed in the open air on pure meat is preferred, says an old author, by all physicians, ancient or modern, Greeks or Latins, before all meats. A roasted or boiled capon helps the appetite, opens the breast, clears the voice, fattens lean men, and nourishes old men, restores sick men, hurts none but the idle, tastes pleasantly, and digests easily. He is more solid than the flesh of pullets, more tender than cocks ; not so dry as a cock, to be slowly digested; not so moist as a chicken, to be soon corrupted; but equally affected and temperate in all qualities, engendering much blood, and yet inoffensive; and helps natural heat without unnatural sharpness. The flesh of capons is so raild, temperate, and nourishing, that it is thought he must be desperately consumed that capon jelly would not recover. Cheese. Particular attention should be paid to the coat or rind in the purchasing of this article. If the cheese be old, and has a rough coat, rugged or dry at top, you may expect to find little worms or mites in it; and if it be over-full of holes, moist, or spongy, it probably is maggoty. Should you observe any decayed places on the outside be careful to probe them to the bottom ; for, though the hole in the coat may appear but small, it may be of considerable dimensions within the cheese. Chickens. Choose the whitest and fattest. If chickens be newly killed they will be stiff and white, and firm in the vent; but if stale killed they will be limber, and the vent green. Choose them dry pulled, for they will in this case roast better. Chickens are best in summer, and pullets and hens best in winter. Cock chickens are best before they crow, and hen chickens before the cock treads them. The game sort nave the finest flavour, but their flesh is somewhat darker than the other, and of course affords more nourishment. A Cock has a red comb and red gills. If he has a short spur, not cut nor pared, and if he is fat, he will eat well. If stale he will have an open vent; but if new a close, hard vent. Some think the best part of a cock is his comb; and it is so if he lives to the age of two years, for then his flesh turns brackish and tough. The Romans called these medici galli, cocks of physic, because the physicians most commended them. Cod. a cod should be very thick at the neck; and if it be perfectly fine and fresh the flesh will be white, firm, and of a bright clear colour, with red gills. When they are stale they will appear flabby, and will not retain their proper flavour.' From Christmas to Lady-day is their proper season. Crabs. When they are stale their shells will be of a dusky red colour, the joints of their claws limber, which, being loose, may be turned any way with the finger, and from under their throat will issue an unpleasant smell; but if good they are the very reverse. Eggs. If the egg be new it will feel warm on putting the greater end of it to your tongue» but if cold it is stale ; and according to the degree of heat or cold there is in the egg you may judge of its staleness or newness. Or hold it up against the sun or a candle, and if the yolk appear round, and the white clear and fair, it is a mark of its goodness ; but if the yolk be broken, and the white cloudy and muddy, the egg is a bad one. Or put the egg into a pan of cold water; in this case the fresher the egg is, the sooner it will sink to the bottom ; but if it be addled or rotten it will swim on the surface of the water. Fieldfare. If she be thick and hard in the vent it is a sure sign of her being fat; if limber footed, new killed; but if thin in the vent and dry footed she is both stale and poor. Fieldfares are best when juniper berries are ripe, for then all their flesh is perfumed there- with. Flounders. These fish, when fresh, are stiff, their eyes bright and full, and their bodies thick. They should be dressed as soon as possible after they are dead. Geese. If a tame goose has a red foot and bill she is old; if yellow, young; if new, limber footed; if stale, dry footed. A goose is in high season at Michaelmas, and a stubble goose eats best when it is between four and five months old. Green geese are eaten from one month to three. They are in high season in May and June. A green goose is scalded, whereas a stubble goose is dry picked. Wild