L B6 ] JAO JAO eruptions, particularly tetter and the itcli; and when bruised they are applied with effect to corns. The berries, which have an acidulous, nesinous, somewhat pungent taste, are said to be purgative, and even emetic, and to contain a peculiar principle called pederin. It is very bitter, and appears to be closely allied to quinia. An acid is also obtained called pederic acid. The berries are eagerly eaten by wood-pigeons, blackbirds, and thrushes. From the old trunks a resinous substance exudes through incisions in the bark, which has been employed in medicine, under the name of ivy gum, as a stimulant and emmenagogue; and placed in the cavities of carious teeth it is said to relieve toothache. The wood is soft and porous, and is used by leather cutters to whet their knives on; and it is also made into issue peas. J. JACK, or Pike. If you wish to serve it as a principal dish do not scale it, but take off the gills, draw it, and boil it in court bouillon. If as a side dish it is dressed in many ways; as, for instance, cut it in pieces, leaving the scales on, and cook them in court bouillon. When done, and you are ready to serve, take off the scales, and dish for table, pouring over it any white sauce you think proper, to which it is usual to add capers. It may also be fricasseed like chickens. In this case cut it in pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with a slice of butter, a bunch of sweet herbs, and some mushrooms; turn them a few times over the fire, and then shake in a little flour; moisten with good stock and white wine, and stew over a brisk fire. When done, and agreeably seasoned, put in the yolks of three eggs beaten up in cream. JACK, BAKED. Scale it, open it as near the throat as you can, and then stuff it with the following stuffing:—Some grated bread crumbs, herbs, anchovies, oysters, suet, salt, pepper, mace, half a pint of cream, and the yolks of four eggs. Mix the whole over the fire till it thickens, then put it into the fish, and sew it up ; rub it all over with butter, and bake it. Serve with a sauce of gravy, butter, and anchovy. In helping a jack the back and belly should be slit up, and each slice gently drawn downwards : by this means there will be fewer bones given. JACK, BOILED. Take a large jack, clean it, take out the gills, and make a stuffing with crumbs of bread.grated finely, some sweet herbs chopped small, some grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, pepper, salt, some oysters chopped small, and a bit of butter. Mix all these ingredients together with the yolks of two eggs ; put it into the fish, and sew it up; turn the tail into the mouth, and boil it in' pump water with some vinegar and salt in it. Do not put in the fish until the liquor boils. If the fish is large it will take about three quarters of an hour to boil. Serve with oyster sauce poured over the fish, and some also in a boat. JACK, BRIDE'S FASHION. Cut a jack into several pieces, boning and flattening them as much as possible; roll a good farce round them, tie them in bits of cloth, and braise them in white wine and broth, with a piece of butter, bits of roots, a bundle of herbs, pepper, and salt. When done strip each bit, and serve with what sauce you think proper. A rehshing sharp sauce is generally considered the best. JACK A LA CHAMBORD. Take off the scales, and clean a good-sized jack; remove the skin, lard the fish, and put it into a fish kettle with a marinade. When it boils take it out, and place it in the oven, basting it occasion- ally. As soon as it is sufficiently done take it from the oven, let it drain, and then serve it. Place round it in quenelles veal sweetbreads larded, crayfish, artichoke bottoms, croutons, and a garniture d la Chambord. To these may be added pigeons a la Oautier, eels, larded with truffles, &c. JACK, FRICASSEED. Thoroughly wash the jack, then cut it into large pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with butter, some mushrooms, a dozen small onions half boiled, some parsley, green shallots, two cloves, thyme, and a bay leaf. Soak these together some time, and then add a pint of white wine and broth, salt, and whole pepper. Boil on a quick fire; reduce the sauce ; take out the parsley, shallots, cloves, thyme, and bay leaf; and thicken with cream, eggs, a little nutmeg, and a squeeze of lemon, provided the wine does not make it sufficiently tart. JACK WITH GRAVY. Lard a jack with bacon, line a stewpan with slices of veal and bacon, lay your jack on them, cover it with the same, and let it stand over a slow fire for half an hour; then pour over it a bottle of white wine and a pint of good consomme, close the stewpan tightly, place it in the oven, and when done serve it with the braise and its own gravy. JACK, POTTED. Scale it, and cut off the head; split it, and take out the backbone ; strew it all over with bay salt and pepper, cover it, and bake it; then take it out, and lay it on a coarse cloth to drain. When it is cold lay it in a pot just large enough to hold it, and cover it with clarified butter. It must be thoroughly drained from the gravy, otherwise it will not keep. JACK SALAD. Cut the remains of a cold jack into pieces, and mix with them capers, gher- kins, anchovies, and some herbs shred. Serve the jack, garnishing the dish with lettuces and hard eggs. Mix oil and vinegar at table.