EOL I 463 f quantity of milk to make a aough of moderate stiffness ; beat it well, but do not knead it; let it rise, and bake on tins. ROLLS, FRENCH (3). Warm three spoons- ful of milk, the same quantity of water, and a bit of butter the size of a walnut; then add two spoonsful of thick yeast; put this into the middle of rather more than a quart of flour, mix the whole together to the consistence of batter pudding, adding more flour if necessary to make it the proper thickness ; strew a little flour over it from the sides, and if the weather is cold set it a little distance from the fire. Do this three hours before it is put in the oven. When it breaks a good deal through the flour, and rises, work it into a light paste with more warm milk and water; let it lie till within a quarter of an hour before it is put in the oven, then work it lightly into rolls, flour a tin» and drop them on; handle them as lightly as possible, and set them befoi'e the fire. About twenty minutes will be sufficient time to bake them. Put a little salt into the flour. Rasp the rolls. ROOK PIE. Draw and skin as many young birds as will fill the dish, set them in cold water with a little salt for two hours, and then re- move the back bones ; and season with pepper, salt, a little Cayenne, and two or three cloves pounded fine; lay them closely in a pie dish, adding some good gravy, with some pats of butter on the top; cover the whole with a coarse flour-and-water paste, and bake it for an hour and a half. Next day remove the coarse paste, replace it with a puff paste, and bake over again until done. Before serving pour into the dish some highly seasoned gravy. Some add the yolks of eggs and a steak at the bottom, as in a pigeon pie. ROPINESS. See Beer, Ropiness in ROSE, JELLY OF. Make a clear apple jielly, colour it with cochineal infused in double- distilled rose water, and just before the last boiling put in half a glass of the best double- distilled rose water. ROSE VINEGAR. Infuse rose leaves in the best white vinegar, leave it where it will be well exposed to the sun for ten days, then draw it off, press all the liquor from the dregs, filter, and bottle it. Keep the bottles well corked. ROSE WATER, DOUBLE. The rose generally chosen for this purpose is the common ^ale (single or double) rose, but the white rose is the best of all. Gather the flowers in fine weather two hours after sunrise; take out the talyx, and separate the leaves ; pound them in a marble mortar to a paste, and leave them five or six hours in the mortar; then put them in a large close elotli, and let two persons wring it with all their strength. Having by this opera- tion obtained 4 lbs. of juice, infuse it in an equal weight of fresh rose leaves for twenty- four hours. At the end of that time put the whole into the alembic, which place in a sand bath, and distil it according to rule. {See Distilling.) When you have collected about 1 oz. of the water unlute the receiver, and if that which issues from the still is as odoriferous as that which proceeded first, continue the operation; but if not, collect it into another vessel, as this second water is not single, and must be kept separate from the first, whicli is the essential water. Should the second water have an unpleasant smell (caused by the applica- tion of too much heat), expose it to the sun for a few days, covered only by a sheet of paper. The utmost care is necessary in distiUing this and all other odoriferous substances. A still more powerful essence than the above may be procured by the following method :—Gather as many roses as will afford 30 lbs. of leaves, and' pound these with 4 lbs. of salt; when pounded place the paste in a vessel in layers, Avith salt' between each; press them closely, cork them tightly, leave the vessel twelve days, and then, distil as usual. ROSE WATER, SINGLE. Put 4 lbs. of rose leaves into a pan, with thi-ee quarts of river water, and leave the mixture four-and-twenty hours ; then put it into a metal alembic, and distil fi'om itasmuch odoriferous wateras you can, being' sure to stop the moment you observe the phlegm.' Take off the alembic, throw away its contents,^ and rinse it out well. After this fill it to two- thirds with fresh-gathered rose leaves, on whichf pour the above drawn rose water; distil this, and when you have procured as much good rose water as it will yield let the fire go out gradually. ROSEMARY [Rosmarinus officinalis) grow3 wild in the south of Europe, along the region of the Mediterranean, on dry hills and amon^ rocks. The plant has a strong aromatic odour,' and a bitter, camphorous taste, both of which are imparted to alcohol, and only partially to water. As a medicine rosemary is tonic, exciting, stimulates the nervous system, cordial, cephalic, and promotes the circulation. It isi considered serviceable in vertigo, hysteria, head-' a,ches, hypochondria, paralysis, humid catarrh, and all the affections of debility, as certairi chloroses, leucorrhceas, and also as an emmena- gogue. It is sometimes used in the form of snuff, or mixed along with other herbs for the same purpose. The whole plant is employed as a condiment: powdered, it serves many pur. poses in confectionery, and to form fragrant packets for perfuming wardrobes and clothing. The virtues of the plant reside in a volatile oil, obtained by distillation, and called oil of rose'