RIB RHU [ 893 ] to 20 grains, thougb, in irritable, hysterical, and phthisical habits, it is apt to occasion gripes, and to aggravate febrile symptoms. Hence it ought never to be given in the first stage of dysentery, when this invaluable remedy, by premature use, may occasion the most violent pain and inflammation of the bowels; but after the fever is suppressed, and the disease becomes a chronic diarrhoea, small doses of rhubarb will be attended with the best effects. As, however, this medicinal root has a tendency to occasion obstructions of the intestines after copious eva- cuations, it will in most cases be proper to com- bine it with cooling salts, in order to prevent costiveness. Thus 6 grains of the former, and 1 drachm of either Glauber's salt or cream of tartar in a combined state, may be taken with advantage in the evening, and a similar dose in the morning. In short, rhubarb is the only purgative we possess that is at the same time mildly astringent, diuretic, and does not relax the first passages. Besides the utility of the roots, the seeds of such plants as are raised in England possess a considerable portion of the medicinal properties of the former. Its leaves impart an agreeable acidity to soups, similar to that of sorrel. A strong infusion in white wine of pieces of the roots that were not sufficiently thick for drying has been given with great success in the dysenteries sometimes incident to cattle. A marmalade is likewise prepared from the fresh stem by stripping off the bark, and boiling the pulp with an equal quantity of honey or sugar. This, we understand, affords a mild and pleasant laxative, especially for children, to whom it is highly salubrious. Lastly, Professor Pallas in- forms us that a resinous elastic gum, which in the month of August exuded from the leaves and flower-stalks of the Siberian rhubarb on wound- ing them with a knife, bore perfect resemblance to the caoutchouc, or India rubber. By a decoc- tion of this root in alum water the Kirghis im- part a beautiful orange colour to their leather and wool: a similar tint may be given to cloth, and on adding green vitriol a fine olive shade will be the result. It has farther been con- jectured that, with a solution of tin or bismuth, rhubarb would afford a beautiful red dye. RHUBARB: To Bottle. Cut and peel the rhubarb as for tarts, put it in clean dry bottles, cork them, but not tightly, put them in a pan of cold water, and set them on a moderate fire. When the rhubarb changes colour, and begins to shrink a little in the bottles, take them oS the fire, and let them stand till cold; then cork them tightly, and set them in a cool dry place, with the necks downwards, to prevent the rhubarb fermenting. Be careful the oven is not too hot, or the bottles will fly. Cork them tightly when they are quite cold. It is a very good plan to lay a double sheet of brown paper in the oven, and place the bottles on their sides, turning them occasionally. RHUBARB JAM. An excellent jam may be made with two-thirds of red currants to one- third of garden rhubarb: it may also be made with the same proportion of gooseberries before they are quite ripe, and it likewise answers very well with raspberries. One pound of sugar to two of fruit will be found quite sufficient, boiling the fruit three quarters of an hour before the sugar is added, and afterwards till it becomes like pulp or jam. RHUBARB PUDDiNG. See Apple Pud- ding, Boiled (1). RHUBARB TART. Let the stalks be of a good size, take off the thin skin, and cut them into lengths of four or five inches ; lay them in a dish, and put over a thin syrup of sugar and water, cover with another dish, and let it simmer slowly for an hour on a hot hearth, or in a block-tin saucepan. As soon as cold make it into a tart. When tender the baking of the crust will be sufficient; or you may cut the stalks into bits the size of gooseberries, and make your tart the same as gooseberry tart. RIBBON is woven in pieces thirty-six yards long. The inferior kinds are made of Bengal silk; the best of Italian. Pearl-edge is pro- duced by projecting some threads of the weft. The French ribbons were made formerly in pieces of twelve ells. Their length is now the same as that of the English. French fancy ribbons are generally made and sold in gar- nitures, that is, a broad and a narrow piece taken together of the same pattern. Sarsenet and Lutestring Ribbons are made by the simple and regular alteration of the warp and shoot, as in plain cloth, called technically ground. Lutestrings are sarsenet above the width of 12d., and in general of stouter make. Several threads of the warp pass through each dent or tooth of the sleigh, according to the fine- ness of the silk or intended quality of the ribbon. In a lutestring the dents are in the proportion of about 40 to the inch—the shoots about 90, varying with the quality. By grogram (French gros-grains) is meant a variation in the texture, caused by the warp-threads passing over two of the shoots at once, taking up one only. This often finishes the edge of a ribbon. Organzine dyed soft is used for the warps of all ribbons except gauzes, from its greater strength and compactness of fibre ; tram and single-dyed souple for the shoot of sarsenet, and sometimes of satin. In Satin the glossy appearance is given by threads of the warp being laid chiefly on the surface, each thread of the warp being crossed