[ 256 ] NO Y NOU half a pint of cold water, with 1 oz. of isinglass dissolved in a very little boiling water. Boil and skim the sugar well, and when it is quite clear squeeze over the almonds the juice of two lemons, and throw them into the sugar ; stir the almonds so as to mix them well with the syrup, and then take the kettle off the fire. Have ready a mould or square tin pan well buttered, and put the mixture into it a little at a time, making only a thin coat of it round the mould or pan. Take care that the almonds are equally dispersed through the sugar before it cools; but if it becomes cold before the almonds are well mixed, set it over the fire again to melt. Turn it frequently in the mould to prevent it from sticking. When it has become a hard cake set the mould for a moment in warm water, and turn it out. When turned out it is in a hollow cake. In stirring it a wooden spoon had better be used. NOUILLE PASTE. Into 1 lb. of butter break three or four eggs, and add J oz. of melted butter, with as much flour as will make it into a paste; beat it well with the hands, gather it together, and let it repose half an hour; give it two or three turns, divide it in four, and roll out as thin as possible ; cut them in ribbons of an inch and a half broad, dust them with flour, and cut them the size of lai'ge vermicelli as equally as possible. Lay them in the air on paper for some hours to dry, lifting them from time to time with the points of the fingers of both hands applied at once, tossing them to raise them from the paper. Poach them in boiling salt and water, or milk and water ; let them boil a quarter of an hour. Serve them as macaroni in soup or pottage, into which it ought to be put a few minutes before serving, that it may get the taste of it. NOVEMBER. The articles which are in season during this month are : — Fish. Salmon, salmon trout, turbot, halibut, gurnets, dory, smelts, gudgeon, carp, pike, tench, lobsters, oysters, cockles, and muscles. Fruit. Grapes, apples, pears, services, med- lars, bullace, oranges, walnuts, filberts, and chestnuts. Meat. Beef, mutton, veal, lamb, doe venison, hares, and rabbits. Poultry. Geese, turkeys, fowls, chickens, pullets, pigeons, woodcocks, snipes, larks, wild ducks, teal, widgeons, partridges, grouse, phea- sants, and dotterels. * Vegetables. Broccoli, cabbages, savoys, carrots, turnips, paisnips, potatoes, beet, arti- chokes, celery, skirrets, scorzonera, onions, garlic, shallots, rocambole, parsley, sorrel, thyme, savory, sweet maijoram, burnet, lettuce, endive, and Jerusalem artichokes. NOYAU (1). The real liqueur of this name is made in the island of Martinique, upon a foundation of French brandy, with a species of berry grown on the island, and sweetened with syrup. It requires age to give it the flavour of the berry, and even in the West Indies is far from being cheap. The following recipes, however, are good imitations :—Blanch 9ozs. of bitter, and the same quantity of sweet almonds, and bruise them in a mortar; add them, with the rind of two lemons, to one quart of gin or whiskey, which must be kept in a moderate heat for three days and nights ; shake the bottle three or four times a day, and then add 14 ozs. of loaf sugar dissolved in half a pint of boiling water, and let it stand one day and night longer, shaking the bottle frequently; then strain it, and filter it afterwards in blotting paper ; bottle it, and it will be fit to drink in six months, but will improve by keeping for a year. NOYAU [2). To one quart of gin, whiskey, or brandy put 3 ozs. of bitter almonds, blanched and cut into pieces, and the rind of three lemons; let it stand three days before the fire, shaking the bottle two or three times a day; then add 1 lb. of good loaf sugar or half a pint of syrup, and let it dissolve, shaking it frequently during the day or two which it will take; then filter it through blotting paper. NOYAU (3). Peaches and nectarines in equal quantities are to be bruised, the stones broken, and the kernels blanched and bruised. They are then to be put into a jar in laj^ers, one of fruit, one of kernels, and one of pounded loaf sugar, and so on until the jar is full. As much brandy, gin, or whiskey is then to be added as the jar will hold, and when it has stood for five or six months it is to be filtered and bottled for use. NOYAU, CREME DE. To six quarts of brandy add one of water, and 4 ozs. of sliced apricot kernels or bitter almonds, infused in the spirit for some days ; distil it, add one pint of orange-flower water, l|lb. of sugar, and three quarts of water. Filter or pass through a bag. NOYAU, ENGLISH (]). Take one gallon of gin or whiskey, 1 lb. of bitter almonds, ^ lb. of sweet almonds (both beaten to a fine paste), and 3 lbs. of lump sugar pounded (some of it with the almonds); let these stand ten d^ys in the gin, filter through blotting paper, and bottle it. NOYAU, ENGLISH (2). Take ^Ib. of bitter almonds, and the thinly pared rind of a fine lemon ; blanch the almonds, and shred the lemon-peel into small pieces; put them together into a mortar, and bruise them to as fine a jJulp as possible; put the pulp into a gallon stone bottle, and add two quarts of diluted spirits of