TON [ 427 ] TON lie tlie ends tightly. Roast the tongue and udder. Baste them with red wine and butter. Serve with good gravy and currant jelly. For other methods of dressing tongue see Neat's Tongues. TONGUES : To RECDirN. Get the largest sheep, lambs, calves, or pigs' tongues; rub them with sugar for two days, then with salt, and put them into the following piclde for a fortnight:—Boil two quarts of water with 1 lb. of sugar, saltpetre and prunella, of each 1 oz., with i oz. of cloves and sweet herbs. Leave them from ten to fourteen days in the pickle ; cook them in a braise of sweet herbs and a spoonful of red sanders wood: it is not neces- sary that they should boil. If they come to a simmer, and keep upon it, they will only require half an hour. l)ip them into boiling water to take off the sanders, let them cool upon a cullender, peel and glaze them, and serve hot or cold in a savoury jelly. These are the least expensive dishes, if the cook takes care to save them from her ordinary dinner. Sheep's tongues can be always had at the West End for 2s. 6d. per dozen. Three or four tongues make a hand- some dish, and if nicely dished upon turnips might often take the place, with propriety, of a 5s. or 6s. tongue. Dish them on turnips, sauer- kraut, red cabbage, potatoes, or one in the middle of a white mince ; or dish them in a rosette, with lettuce between, with the roots of the tongues and the stocks of the lettuce out; or shape turnips, glaze them, and dish them in the same way, with a tuft of fried parsley in the middle; or dab them nicely with lard before they are braised, cut them open, and serve them hot in any of the above ways, or as a garnish to roast chicken. TONGUES : To Salt. Throw over them a little salt, next scrape them clean, and then rub them with a mixture of salt and saltpetre; lay them in a pan, and turn thein daily for a week, after which salt them again, and let them remain another week. Take them up, dry them in a cloth, and having floured them, hang them up, or you may keep them in pickle. TONGUE-TIE. There is very frequently attached to the frrenum of the tongues of new- born children a nearly transparent whitish membrane, which pursues the natural fifenum through its wdiole course, and continues beyond the point where the fraenum stops, and ter- minates near the extremity of the tongue itself, so that the tongue is tied down as it were to its proper bed. In consequence of this disposition of the fraenum the child cannot elevate the tongue, or protrude it beyond the lips, and, in its at- tempts to suck, it cannot apply it with sufficient force or certainty to the nipple to make a com- VOL. II. plete exhaustion; therefore it can suck but imperfectly', and this is accompanied by a clucking kind of noise. Whenever this is observed the mouth should be examined, and it will almost always be found in the situation just described, but not necessarily, as there may be clucking without this membrane; but this membrane, we believe, is never without the cluckiug. This membrane is easily discovei'ed by pro- voking the child to cry, or by elevating the point of the tongue by the extremity cf the little finger. In making the attempt to raise the tongue the child is almost sure to cry, and then this membrane is readily discovered, as it is now fully upon the stretch. This defect is easily remedied. It should be done in the following manner:—Let the child be laid across the lap of the nurse, with its face towards a proper light; the operator must stand behind the head, so that he does not interrupt the light. The chin of the child must be gently depressed by tlie forefinger of the nurse. When the chin is thus depressed the little finger of the left hand of the operator must be insinuated between the side of the tongue near its tip, and the inner corresponding portion of the jaw, until it can lift up the point of the tongue, which being done, the membrane is immediately brought into view, and that upon the stretch; or, should the child now begin to cry, as it almost always does, the operator can easily place his finger under the tongue, and keep this false frasnum tense, while, by a single stroke directly across it by a sharp gum lancet, he divides it to the true fraenum. The opera- tion is then finished. We have never known it necessary to repeat this operation. The incision through the membrane never yields more than a small drop of blood: no hemorrhage can ensue, as this tissue is but very slightly vascular. TONICS are medicines which give strength and vigour to the body. Draughts. Take of decoction of cinchona 1| fluid oz.; lance-leaved cinchona bark, 1 scruple ; compound tincture of cinchona, 2 fluid drachms. Make a draught: it may be given three times a day. Or, take of decoction of cinchona ]|- fluid oz.; diluted sulphuric acid, 10 minims ; compound tincture of cin- chona, 2 fluid drachms. Make a draught: to be taken as the preceding. Mixture. Take of decoction of cinchona 5^ fluid ozs. ; lance-leaved cinchona bark, 4 scruples; compound tincture of cinchona, ^ fluid oz. Mix them : three table-spoonsful to be given three or four times a day. Pills. Take of extract of cinchona 2 drachms; sulphate of iron, 15 grains ; syrup of S K