P I G [ 327 ] PI G young pigeons into quarters, which tlanch for a quarter of an hour in warm water; then dry them well, and give them a few turns in melted hutter; add half a pint of good stock, a little pepper and salt, and, when nearly done, half a glass of champagne, with a few morels dressed in veal gravy. Serve your fricassee very hot. , PIGEONS AU GRATIN. Prepare and scald three or four pigeons, a sweetbread, and two fat livers (also scalded), two or three articlioke bottoms parboiled, a few mushrooms, a slice of ham, parsley, scallions, thyme, half a clove of garlic, a bay leaf, and two cloves; fry these lightly in a proper quantity of butter, and then add gravy, a glass of white Avine, a little stock, whole pepper, and salt; let the whole simmer slowly, and when done skim it well; pour half the sauce into a dish that will bear the heat, and set it on a brisk fire to form the gratin ; then put in the pigeons, &c., and let it stand ; squeeze a little lemon juice into the remainder of the sauce, pour the whole over, and serve. PIGEONS, HOTCHPOTCH OF. Take two or three good-sized pigeons; truss and boil them over a slow fire in some stock, with carrots, parsni})S, celery, small onions (all pre- viously scalded), parsley, shallots, thyme, a bay leaf, pepper, and salt. When done place the pigeons in a deep dish, with the roots, &c., arranged around, and serve with a Spanish sauce. PIGEONS IN JELLY. Pick two very nice pigeons, and make them look as well as possible by singeing, washing, and cleaning the heads well. Leave the heads and the feet on, but the nails must be clipped close to the toes. Pioast them of a very nice brown, and when done put a little sprig of myrtle into the bill of each. Having ready a savourj'jelly, with it half fill a bowl of such a size as shall be proper to turn down on the dish j'ou mean the pigeons to be served in. When the jelly and the birds are cold see that no gravy hangs to the latter, and then lay them upside down in the jelly. Before the rest of it Legins to set pour it over the birds, so as to be three inches above the feet. This should be done at least twenty-four hours before serving. This dish has a very handsome appearance in the middle range of a second course; or, when served with the jelly rough, it makes a side or corner dish, its size being then less. The head should be kept up as if alive, by tying the neck with some thread, and the legs must be bent as if the pigeon sat upon them. PIGEONS WITH MARROW. Truss three or four large pigeons for roasting, and stuff them with a farce made of beef marrow, two anchovies, shallots, parsley, tan-agon leaves (all shred very small), seasoned with pepper and nutmeg, and bcu id together with the yolks of two eggs. Wrap the birds in slices of bacon and paper; roast and serve them with a sauce made as follows:—Take a little cullis, a glass of white wine, the same of stock, two slices of peeled lemon, some bruised rocamboles, salt, and pepper ; boil for twenty or thirty minutes till of a good consistence, strain, add a little butter, simmer a minute or two, and then pour it into the dish under the pigeons. PIGEONS WITH ONIONS. Cut a dozen large onions into dice, which put into a stewpan with plenty of butter; set them on the fire, and keep stirring till they are done. When cold mix with them the yolks of three eggs, a little grated bacon, two chopped anchovies, a pinch of pounded aniseed, salt, and pepper. In the meantime, having braised some pigeons, cover each completely with the above preparation, and then with veal caul, which fix together with white of egg; roll them in bread crumbs, place them on a dish, pour a few drops of oil or melted butter over, and bake them. Serve them with a sauce composed of cullis and consomme. PIGEONS AS ORTOLANS. Cover your pigeons so completely with small slices of bacon, placed like scales, that the feet can barely be seen; give them a few turns in the satice a I'atelet, then fasten them to a spit, and roast before a clear fire. A very short time is suf&cient. PIGEONS WITH PARMESAN. Take the livers of as many pigeons as you intend to dress, mince them with grated bacon, add a few spoonsful of broth, and set them on a slow fire to simmer. When done take out the pigeons, and put in a little cullis ; give it a boil, and then strain it. Put some of this sauce into a dish for table, grate some Parmesan cheese into it, and then put in the birds; set the dish on hot ashes, pour in more sauce, grate cheese over, and colour it with a salamander. PIGEONS AND PEAS. Truss the pigeons for boiling. After boiling the gizzards, put them, with the hearts and livers, into the bodies, with a piece of butter, pepper, and salt; stiffen them in butter over the fire ; cut some fine streaked bacon into dice, and steep out the salt for an hour; put it to get a good colour in the butter, drain it out, and put in flour to make a roux r let it be very white. Put in the pigeons and lard, turn them in the roux, moisten by little and little with good stock, bring it to the consistence of sauce, and keep turning till it boils ; season with parsley, scallions, a clove of garlic, and a clove; set them on the side of the stove to simmer, and when half done put in a pint or quart of young peas : shake them often. When done, if the sauce is too thin, pour it off and reduce it; skim, and add pepper and salt; dish, and pour the sauce over. This dish may be served with the bacon alone when there are no peas, or