PLE PLE r 341 ] Leaves of various plants might likewise be applied to the patient's side with advantage. We have often seen great benefit from young cabbage leaves applied warm to the side in a pleurisy. These not only relax the parts, but likewise draw off a little moisture, and may prevent the necessity of blistering plasters, which, however, when other things fail, must be applied. If the pain continue after repeated bleedings, fomentations, &c., a blistering plaster must be applied over the part affected, and suffered to remain for two days. This not only procures a discharge from the side, but takes off the spasm, and by that means assists in removing the cause of the disease. To prevent a stran- gury when the blistering plaster is on, the patient may drink freely of the Arabic emul- sion ;—Take oil of sweet almonds, 1 oz. ; syrup of marsh-mallows, ^ oz.; mucilage of gum arabic, 2 ozs.; pure water, 3 ozs.; solution of the sub- carbonate of ammonia, i drachm. Make a mixture. Or, take best olive oil, 1 oz. ; muci- lage of gum arabic, 2 ozs.; oxymel of squills, 3 drachms ; subcarbonate of ammonia, 1 scruple. Make a mixture, of which take a little often, or during the urgency of the cough. If the patient be costive, a clyster of t\im water gruel or of barley water, in which a, handful of mallows or any other emollient vegetable has been boiled, may be daily ad- ministered. This will not only empty the bowels, but have the effect of a warm fomenta- tion applied to the inferior viscera, which will help to make a derivation from the breast. The expectoration may be promoted by sharp, oil}', and mucilaginous medicines. For this purpose 1 oz. of the oxymel or the vinegar of squills may be added to 6 ozs. of the pectoral decoction, and two table-spoonsful of it taken every two hours. Should the squills disagree with the stomach the oily emulsion may be administei-ed ; or, in place of it, 2 ozs. of the oil of sweet almonds, or oil of olives, and 2 ozs. of the syrup of violets, may be mixed with as much sugar candy powdered as will make an electuary of the consistence of honey. The patient may take a tea-spoonful of this frequently when the cough is troublesome. Should oily medicines prove nauseous, which is sometimes the case, two table-spoonsful of the solution of gum ammoniac in barley water may be given three or four times a day. Expectoration and a determination to the skin may also be pro- moted by small nauseating doses of antiraonials, taking care, however, not to excite vomiting, but assisting their action by frequent small draughts of some mild diluent liquor, as barley ■water, thiu gruel, &c, Take emetic tartar. 2 grains ; distilled water, 8 ozs. Take two table- spoonsful every three or four hours. If the patient does not perspire, but has a burning heat upon his skin, and passes very little water, some small doses of purified nitre and camphor will be of use. Two drachms of the former may be rubbed with 5 or 6 grains of the latter in a mortar, and the whole divided into six doses, one of which may be taken every five or six hours in a little of the patient's ordinary drink. We shall only mention one medicine more, which some reckon almost a specific in the pleurisy, viz., the decoction of the seneka rattle- snake root. Take of seneka, or rattlesnake root, 1 oz.; water, 1J pint. Boil to one pint, and strain. This is recommended in the pleurisy, dropsy, rheumatism, and some obstinate dis- orders of the skin. The dose is 2 ozs. three or four times a day, or oftener if the stomach will bear it. After bleeding and other evacuations have been premised the patient may take two, three, or four table-spoonsful of this decoction, accord- ing as the stomach will bear it, three or four times a day. If it should occasion vomiting, 2 ozs. or 3 ozs. of simple cinnamon water may be mixed with the quantity of decoction here directed, or it may be taken in smaller doses. As this medicine promotes perspiration and urine, and likewise keeps the body easy, it may be of some service in a pleurisy, or any other inflammation of the breast. When the skin is very hot and diy, saline draughts, or solution of acetated ammonia, may be administered with advantage. Take lemon juice, l^oz. ; subcarbonate of potash, 1 drachm; mint water, 1 oz. ; pure water, 3 ozs. ; nitrate ()f potash, 1 drachm ; syrup of tolu, ^ oz. Make a mixture, of which the dose may be three table spoonsful every four hours, To, allay pain, ease the cough, stop diarrhoea when it arises, or procure sleep, we may employ opium. Take solution of acetated ammonia, 3 drachms ; mint wat^r, 1 oz.; tincture of opium, 25 minims ; syrup of tolu, 2 drachms; antimony wine, 12 drops. Make a draught. If the bowels require evacuation strong purgatives ought not to be given; but gentle aperients of a cooling nature should be used, particularly at the commencement of the disease. For this purpose Epsom salts and manna, in an infusion of senna or ca.stor oil, will be the most proper. Take Epsom salts, 2 drachms; manna, 3 drachms; infusion of senna, IJoz. Make an aperient draught. As opiates evidently tend to check expectoration, which it is desirable to promote, they ought, if possible, to be avoided; but if absolutely necessary, from the exhausted state of the patient for want of sleep, they may