TH U THE [ 490 ] fibres it is passed rapidly through the flame of coal gas, by which it acquires a more smooth and even appearance. Mending cotton, or darning cotton, is chiefly used for repairing cotton hose. It is white, black, and coloured, and is composed of two threads but little twisted. Trafalgar cotton and Moravian cotton are used for working muslins, nets, cambrics, &c., and are quite soft. Knitting cotton is for knitting gloves, socks, fringes, &c. It is twisted hard, but not so hard as sewing cotton. Marking cotton is in small balls, and is dyed previously to being twisted, so as to render the colour immovable. hace thread is also made of cotton for mend- ing lace or bobbin net. Gymp thread is a soft thread used for em- broidering on muslin. Glazed cotton is another variety for the same purpose. Worsted, or worsted thread, is made of ^Yool of various degrees of fineness, and dyed of all colours, chiefly for darning, embroidery, and tapestry. Silk thread, or sewing silk, prepared for sewing, is fine white, or China silk; common sewing silk, black and dyed of all colours; tailors' sewing silk; twist, or mohair, for tailors; floss silk, for darning hose, &c. THROAT, INFLAMMATORY SORE. The causes which generally give rise to this comjjlaint are exposure to cold, either from changes in the weather, from being placed in a partial current of air, wearing damp linen, sitting in wet rooms, or getting wet in the feet, coming out of a heated or crowded room suddenly into the open and cool air, or vice versa. It may also be occasioned by violent exertions of the voice, blowing wind instruments, acrid sub- stances irritating the fauces (cavity behind the tongue), and by the sudden suppression of any accustomed evacuations. It differs from the malignant or putrid sore throat by not being contagious, and by princi- pally attacking the youthful, and those of a full and plethoric habit, and is chiefly confined to cold climates, occurring usually in spring and autumn ; whereas the malignant sore throat is contagious, and chiefly attacks those of a weak, irritable habit, and is most prevalent in warm climates. Many people are so strongly predisposed to this complaint as to be attacked with it from any considerable application of cold beyond what they are habitually accustomed to. In the treatment of this complaint, if the inflammation run high, the pulse be quick and hard, with difficulty of breathing, 12 ozs. or 14 ozs. of blood ought to be drawn from the jugular vein (supposing the patient to be a grown person), in preference to the arm; but if the symptoms do not run high it will be sufficient to draw blood by applying several leeches under the ears, particularly on the affected side. At the commencement of this disease, and before fever sets in violently, an emetic, given in time, often proves useful, and not unfre- quently checks its complete formation. The bowels must be kept free by the occasional use of aperient medicine. Where the inflammation is severe, the early application of a blister or a mustard poultice round the throat, or to the back of the neck, has been attended with the most decided benefit; but in slight cases it may suffice to rah the parts twice or three times a day with some cam- phor liniment, putting a piece of flannel round them afterwards. It is also of service in this complaint to wash the mouth and fauces with mildly astringent gargles, somewhat sharpened with some acid, aiid also to scrape and cleanse the tongue. Gargles. Take confection of the red rose, 1 oz. ; boiling water, ^ pint; diluted sulphuric acid, 1 drachm. Or, barley water, 6 ozs.; honey of roses, 1 oz.; diluted sulphuric acid, 45 drops. Or a gargle for domestic purposes, and one sometimes equally efficacious, may be made of sage tea and honey, with the addition of a little vinegar. Frequently inhaling the vapour of warm water and vinegar greatly assists the effects of gargles, which may be done by means of an inverted funnel. Should the inflammation not resolve, and threaten to terminate in suppuration, this pro- cess ought to be hastened by the frequent ap- plication of warm fomentations and poultices to the throat, and the patient directed to receive the vapour of warm milk and water into his throat several times in the course of the day, and to use warm gargles composed of a decoc- tion of figs and barley water. When matter is formed, if the tumour does not readily burst, a •lancet should be applied to it. In this stage of the disease there is the greatest danger, in con- sequence of the passage to the stomach and lungs being so closed by the size and pressure of the tumour, that the patient's life is endangered from suffocation or the want of nourishment, which must be relieved by efficient means within the province of the surgeon. Care should be taken not to catch fresh cold daring the exist- ence of this complaint, otherwise it may termi- nate in pleurisy. Under this head we may refer to Diphtheria, a very serious affection of the throat, apparently