C 246 J NEA NAS stance is more particularly directed towards the heart and arteries, and syncope succeeds its exhibition. The operation of narcotics arises from a pecu- liar stimulating power, remarkable for the ex- treme rapidity with which it exhausts the energy of the nervous system. No one will deny the stimulating powers of alcohol, and yet a very large draught of this liquor will occasion extreme exhaustion, without the occurrence of any signs of previous excitement; nor will any one be disposed to question the depressing influence of opium, and yet small doses have enkindled ex- citement, and sustained the powers of life, under circumstances of extreme and alarming exhaus- tion. From the celeiity with which narcotics pro- duce their effects, it is reasonable to suppose that they act upon the nervous system through the sympathetic relations of the stomach, al- though, in some instances, it is highly probable that these bodies are actually absorbed into the circulation. We are inclined to think that this occui's with opium, as death is accelerated, in cases of persons poisoned by it, by the adoption of those measures which are best calculated to promote its absorption. Whether the effects of spirituous potations are to be attributed to the introduction of alcohol into the blood, or to the sympathies existing between the stomach and Lrain, is still a question of doubt. NASSAU PUFFS. Take six eggs, and divide the yolks from the whites; put the yolks into a large basin, and beat them with a wooden spoon; put them to a table-spoonful of sifted sugar and three spoonsful of flour, beaten well together; then beat the whites in a pan, and when they are of a very strong froth put them to the yolks, mixing them very carefully, not to beat down the whites. Next drop eight with a spoon on a sheet of paper the size of a small tea-cup, and build them as high as you can; then drop as many flat ones as you have high ones ; bake them in a cool oven, and when of a very pale brown, inclijjing to yellow, they are done. Take them off the paper by slipping a knife under them ; then spread some raspberry jam or other sweetmeat on the flat ones, put the high ones on the top of them, and stick some spots of jelly on different parts of them. They have a very pretty appearance, and make a handsome dish for a second course. NASTURTIUMS, PICKLED. As soon as the blossoms are ofi" gather the fruit, put it into cold water with some salt, and shift it once a day for three successive days. Make a cold pickle of white wine vinegar, a little white wine, shallot, pepper, cloves, mace, nutmeg cut in quarters, and horseradish, and put the nastur- tiums into this pickle. NAUSEA, or Sickness, denotes a propensity and exertion to vomit, which may be induced by various causes, such as apoplexy, fevers, violent pain, ci'ude aliment, indigestion, diseases of tlie liver, &c., but especially by any local irritation of the digestive organs. This affection, though disagreeable, is often veiy serviceable, by relieving the stomach when overloaded with incongruous matter, and b_ promoting expectoration in cases where the lungs are oppressed with mucus or phlegm. Farther, it often induces sensible perspiration, and contributes to the proper distribution of the fluids throughout the body. Hence nausea hat proved to be an excellent remedy in variou; complaints, where it was artificially excited b^ the smallest doses of emetics. In some cases, however, it is injurious to the patient, especially when too violent or too frequently repeated, as it is apt to debilitate the stomach; so that, in consequence of the necessary exertions, the patient becomes exhausted, and is apt to be afflicted with ruptures or other maladies. Pregnant women are particularly subject to nausea and vomiting, which, if they be not timely mitigated, are productive of the most serious consequences. With a view to afford some relief in those distressing situations, the use of acidulated mineral waters, especially those of Seidlitz, is recommended. The water of pure ammonia, or caustic vegetable alkali, has often been found eminently useful in cases where acidity prevails, such as heartburn, cough upon taking food, and other complaints of pregnancy. Twenty drops of the pure ammonia or of liquor potassae are to be taken in a glass of water, from which the patient usually experiences immediate relief. NEAT'S FEET, FRIED. Boil the neat's feet, blanch and split them, and then fry them ia clarified butter; or take out the bone, and fiy them in butter, with a little salt and some good stock. When you have fried them a little put in some mint, thyme, and parsley shred small, and some beaten pepper; beat the yolks of eggs, mutton stock, vinegar, the juice of lemon or orange, and nutmeg; pour the sauce upon it, and serve. NEAT'S FOOT; To Roast. Boil and blanch it, and let it stand till cold ; then lard it, and fasten it on a small spit, basting it with butter, vinegar, and nutmeg. For sauce toast some bread, soak it in claret and vinegar, strain it, put the liquor into a pipkin, with a few cloves, ginger, and pounded cinnamon ; set it on the fire, and stir it with a branch of rosemary till it is pretty well thickened. Dish the foot, pour the sauce over it, and serve. NEAT'S FOOT PUDDING. Boil a couple of peat's feet till they are tender; mince tha