I 110 J LAO LAC alum for promoting its solution, or it is used in the form of a tincture, prepared with rectified spirit: the latter has a grateful odour, and a bitterish, astringent, though not unpleasant taste, and is chiefly recommended in scorbutic and rheumatic disorders. LACE. Nottingham is the emporium of the English lace trade, and it is there exclusively made by machinery, which has entirely super- seded that made on cushions by hand, and known as j^iUow lace. The machine-made lace is now confined to point net, warp net, and holbin net, so called from the peculiar con- structions of the machines by which they were produced. There were various other descrip- tions made, viz., two plain net, square or tuck- knotted net, fish-mesh net, and the platted or Arling's net; but they are now discontinued. The most celebrated foreign laces are as follow:— 1. Brussels, the most valuable. There are two kinds : Brussels ground, having a hexagon mesh, formed by platting and twisting four threads of flax to a perpendicular line of mesh. Brussels wire - ground, made of silk; meshes partly straight and partly arched. The pattern is worked separately, and set on by the needle. 2. Mechlin. A hexagon mesh, formed of three flax threads twisted and platted to a perpen- dicular line or pillar. The pattern is worked in the net. 3. Valenciennes. An irregular hexagon formed of two threads, partly twisted and platted at the top of the mesh. The pattern is worked in the net similarly to Mechlin lace. 4. Lille. A diamond mesh, formed of two threads platted to a pillar. 5. Alengon (called blond), hexagon of two threads, twisted similarly to Buckingham lace ; considered the most inferior of any made on the cushion. 6. Alengon point, formed of two threads to a pillar, with octagon and square meshes alter- nately. The French nets made by machinery are :— 1. Single piress point, called, when not orna- mented, tulle, and when ornamented, dentelle, made of silk, is an inferior net, but attractive from the beautiful manner in which it is stiffened. 2. Trico Berlin, so called from being invented at Berlin, and the stitch being removed three needles from its place of looping. It is fanciful and ornamental in appearance, but not in de- maud in England. 3. Fleur de tulle, made from the wai-p lace machine ; mesh of two descriptions, which gives a shaded appeai'ance to the net. 4. Tulle Anglois is double-pressed point lace. Bobbin net, Warp net, 'principally made by English emigrants who have settled m France. drling's lace is made in England, and has a peculiar glaze imparted to it by having all loose fibres singed off by being passed swiftly over a flame. To wash lace and babies' caps. Put them to soak twelve hours in cold water: then soak them twelve hours in boiling v/ater, then again in cold water, soaping them well each time. As they dry pull out the lace, and iron them before they are quite dry. They will then re- quire no starch, but look like new lace. To clean and starch point lace. Fix the lace in a prepared tent, draw it straight, make a warm lather of Castile soap, and with a fine brush dipped in rub the point gently. When it is clean on one side do the same to the other; then throw some clean water on it, in which a little alum has been dissolved, to take off the suds, and, having some thin starch, go over with the same on the wrong side, and iron it on the same side when dry; then open it with a bodkin, and set it in order. To clean point lace, if not very dirty, without washing, fix it in a tent as before, and go over it with the crumb of fine bread, rubbing gently : when done dust out the crumbs. LACE, GOLD AND SILVER. To cUan it sew the lace in linen cloth, boil it in a pint of water and 2 ozs. of soap, and then wash it in water. When it is tarnished apply a little warm spirits of wine to the tarnished part. To separate the metal from the lace without burning it, let the lace be first cut to pieces, tied up in a linen cloth, and boiled in soap lye till its size be considerably diminished. The cloth is now to be taken out of the liquid, rinsed repeatedly in cold water, and beaten with a mallet, in order to extract the alkaline par- ticles. On opening the linen the metallic part of the lace will be found pm'e and undinainished, while it retains its natui'al brightness. LACKERING is the laying on metals coloured or transparent varnishes, to produce the appearance of a different colour in the metal, or to preserve it from rust. Lackering is employed where brass receives the appearance of being gUt; where tin is made to assume the resemblance of yellow metals; and where brass work is to be protected against the corrosion of the air or moisture. Seed-lac is the principal substance used for the com- position of lackers; but for coarser purposes resin or turpentine is added, to make the lacker cheaper. Laceeb foe Beass to imitate Gilding. Take 1 oz. of turmeric; saffron and Spanish