PRA POX [ 363 ] small pox, to relieve the patient by loose stools. Her endeavours this way are by no means to be counteracted, but promoted, and the patient, at the same time, supported by food and drink of a nourishing and cordial nature. If, at the approach of the secondary fever, the pulse be very quick, hard, and strong, the heat intense, and the breathing laborious, with other sym[)toms of an inflammation of the brefst, the patient must immediately be bled. The quantity of blood to be let must be regulated by the patient's strength, age, and the urgency of the symptoms. But in the secondary fever, if the patient be faintish, the pustules become suddenly pale, and if there be great coldness of the extremities, blistering plasters must be applied, and the patient must be supported with generous cor- dials. Wine, and even spirits have sometimes been given in such cases with amazing success. As the secondary fever is, in great measure, if not wholly, owing to the absorption of the matter, it would seem highly consonant to reason that the pustules, as soon as they come to maturity, should be opened. This is every day practised in other phlegmons which tend to suppuration; and there seems to be no cause why it should be less proper here. On the con- trary, we have reason to believe that by this means the secondary fever might always be lessened, and often wholly prevented. The pustules should be opened when they begin to turn of a yellow colour. Very little art is necessary for this operation. They may either be opened with a lancet or a needle, and the matter absorbed by a little dry lint. As the pustules are generally first ripe on the face, it ■will be proper to begin with opening these, and the others, of course, as they become ripe. The pustules generally fill again a second, or even a third time, for which cause the operation must be repeated, or rather continued, as long as there is any considjerable appearance of matter in the pustules. / We have reason to believe that this operation, rational as it is, has been neglected from a piece of mistaken tenderness in parents. They believe that it must give great pain to the poor child, and therefore would rather see it die than have it thus tortured. This notion, however, is en- tirely without foundation ; but supposing it were attended with a little pain, that is nothing in comparison to the advantages which may arise from it. Opening the pustules not only prevents the resorption of the matter into the blood, but like- wise takes off the tension of the skin, and by that means greatly relieves the patient. It like wise tends to prevent the pitting, which is a matter of no small importance. Acrid matter. by lodging long in the pustules, cannot fail to cori'ode the tender skin, by which many a hand- some face becomes so deformed as hardly to bear a resemblance to the human figure. Though this operation can never do harm, yet it is only necessary when the patient has a great load of small pox, or when the matter which they con- tain is of so thin and acrid a nature that there is reason to apprehend bad consequences from its being too quickly resorbed, or taken up again into the mass of circulating humours. It is generally necessary, after the small pox are gone off, to purge the patient. If, however, the body has been open through the whole course of the disease, or if buttermilk and other things of an opening nature have been drunk freely, after the height of the small pox purging becomes less necessary; but it ought never wholly to be neglected. For very young children an infusion of senna and prunes, with a little rhubarb, may be sweetened with coarse sugar, and given in small quantities till it operates. Those who are farther advanced must take medicines of a sharper nature. For example, a child of five or six years of age may take 8 or 10 grains of fine rhubarb in powder overnight, and the same quantity of jalap in powder next morning. This may be wrought off with fresh broth or water gruel, and may be repeated three or four times, five or six days intervening between each dose. For children further advanced, and adults, the dose must be inc; ease4 in proportion to the age and constitution. When imposthumes happen after the small pox, which is not seldom the case, they must be brought to suppuration as soon as possible by means of ripening poultices; and when they have been opened, or haye broke of their own. accord, the patient must be purged. The Peru- vian bark and a milk diet will likewise be useful in this case. When a cough or a difficulty of breathing succeeds to the small pox, consumption must be guarded against. See Gonsdmption, PRADIER'S CATAPLASM. For thi^ remedy for the gout the Emperor Ifapoleon I, is said to have paid a very large sum. It is made as follows :—Dissolve 6 drachms of balm of Mecca in 16ozs. of rectified spirit of wine. Digest for forty-eight hours 1 oz. of red Cinchona bark, J oz. of sarsaparilla, 1 oz. of sage leaves, and I! oz. of saffron in 32 ozs. of rectified spirit of wine. Filter, and then mix the two liquors, adding afterwards twice their weight of lime water. Sprinkle 2 fluid ozs. of this mixture on the surface of a linseed- meal poultice, and surround with it the part affected. PRAWNS. When in perfection they have ao