VEA [ 526 ] VE A make a I'agout of veal sweetbreads and niush- I'ooms; fry the cutlets of a nice brown in melted butter, lay them in a dish, and serve the ragout very hot over them. VEAL CUTLETS WITH SOUR SAUCE. I^et the cutlets be moderately thick, put them into a saucepan with just sufficient water to cover them, and when half done take them out, and let them drain and cool. Make a tbin batter with eggs and a little flour, set a frying- pan on the fire with some lard, and as soon as it is hot dip the cutlets in the batter, and fry them of a nice brown. Serve with sauce made of verjuice, salt, and pepper. VEAL CUTLETS, STEWED. Cut part of a neck of veal into cutlets, shorten them, and fry them of a nice brown colour; then stew them in some good gravy, thickened with a little flour, until tender, and then add some catsup, Cayenne, salt, a few trufSes and morels, and some pickled mushrooms. VEAL CUTLETS WITH SWEET HERBS. Chop all sorts of sweet herbs, mushrooms, a little winter savory, shallots, pepper, and salt, with a spoonful of oil or butter; dip the cutlets in this, aird reduce the sauce to make it stick ; do them over with egg and bread crumbs, and set them in the oven to bake ; then add a glass of white wine and a little cullis to the sauce, skim it well, and when the cutlets are done lay them on a dish, and serve them to table with the sauce poured ovei*. VEAL, DUNELM OF. Stew some mush- rooms very gently for an hour and a half in butter, with mace, salt, and pepper; let them cool, and mince them; dust in flour till the butter becomes a roux, and work in by degrees a little cream till it obtains the consistency of a sauce; simmer and cook it till smooth, and m'n e the meat the same size and quantity as the mushrooms. Butchers' meat I'equires onions, and venison civet and port wine. VEAL, FILLET OF (in a Ragout). Take out the bone of a large white fillet of veal, and put into its place plenty of good forcemeat; tie it up well, put it on the spit, fasten buttered paper over, and roast it. Have a ragoiit the same as for Veal, Loin of (with Ragout); cut the artichokes into any form you may think proper, and place the veal in the centre of the dish, with the artichokes round. Serve the ragout round, but not over the veal. VEAL, FILLET OF (Roasted). Stuff it with the same ingredients as directed for Veal, Shoulder of (Roasted), and roast it according to the same directions. The fat should be prepared. VEAL, FILLET OF (Roasted with Col- MPs). Cut from your fillet what collops are necessary ; then take an udder, and fill it with forcemeat; roll it round, tie it across, and roast it. Put the collops in the dish, and lay the udder in the middle. Garnish with sliced lemon. VEAL, FILLET OF (Stewed). Stuff it and half bake it, with a little stock in the dish ; then stew it with the stock it was baked in, with some good gravy and a little Madeira, and when done enough thicken the sauce with flour ; add catsup, a little Cayenne, salt, and lemon juice; give it a boil, and serve it over the meat. VEAL, FLORENTINE OF. Take two veal kidneys, mince them with their fat very small, and mix them with-a few cuiTants, the yolks of four or five eggs boiled hard and chopped small, a pippin cut fine, some bread crumbs, and candied lemon-peel cut small: seas(m with nutmeg, cloves, salt, mace, a little mountain wine, and some oi'ange-flower water. Line the bottom of a dish with some nice puff paste, put in the above, cover it with puff paste, and set it to bake in a slow oven. VEAL FORCEMEAT. Take of undressed lean veal, freed from skin and sinews, 1 lb., as much beef or veal suet, and the same quantity of bread crumbs ; chop fine 2 drachms of parsley ; of lemon-peel, sweet herbs, onions, each 1 drachm ; i drachm of allspice beaten to a fine powder; and pound the whole in a mortar, adding thereto the yolk and white of an egg; rub the whole well together, and season it with pepper and salt. Its flavour may be heightened by a cold boiled pickled tongue, anchovy, Cayenne, shallot, or curry powder. See Force- meat FOR Veal. VEAL, FRICANDEAU OF. Take the round or part of a round of a fillet, and fry it in butter of a nice brown, with onions cut in slices, and a little garlic ; then set it to stew in some very rich gravy, or cullis. When tender take it out, thicken the gravy with flour, add a little lemon juice, and serve this sauce over the veal. See Fricandeau of Veal. VEAL FRITTERS. Cut the remains of a tender piece of veal into small, thin, round pieces, dip these into a good batter, and fry them the usual way in oil. When done drain, sprinkle salt over, and serve them. VEAL, GRAVY FOR. Put into a stewpan as much lean veal as will cover the bottom to the thickness of an inch, spread over the same some slices of undressed gammon and two or three onions ; cover the pan closely, and set it over a slow fire ; but when the juices begin to exude increase the heat. When the meat is finely browned fill the pan with good beef broth, boil and skim it, let it simmer an hour, and add thereto a little water mixed with flour enough to give it a proper thickness; then boil for half au hour, and strain it for use.