[ ] T H E a little flour, salt, pepper, and a glass of white wine. When these have simmered a quarter of an hour put in the tench cut in pieces. As soon as the fish is done add capers and a chopped anchovy; make a liaison with the yolks of three eggs, and serve with fried bread. TENCH PIE. Put some butter at the bottom of a dish; grate thereon some nutmeg, with the addition of pepper, salt, and mace ; lay in the tench, cover them with butter, and pour in some red wine and a little water ; cover the pie, and when baked pour in some melted butter and rich gravy. TENCH, ROASTED. Take off the scales, heads, and fins of the tench, cleanse and dry them well, and put into each a little butter mixed with sweet herbs. Wrap each fish in paper, fasten them all to a spit, and roast them. TENCH IN A SALMIS OR HASH. Thoroughly cleanse and wash the tench, cut off the head, split it down the back, and cut both the sides into three or four pieces. Have ready on the fire some good consomme, with carrot, onion, parsley, peppercorns, salt, a clove of garlic, a bay leaf, a bit of lean ham, and half a bottle of port. Let the tench stew in this till well done, and then put it into another stewpan. The liquor in which the fish was done must be stewed down, with four large spoonsful of sauce tournee, till it is of a moderate thickness ; then squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and serve it to table very hot. TENCH STEWED WITH WINE. Let the tench be carefully cleansed and crimped ; then set it in a pan, with some good consomme, a bottle of Madeii-a, a little salt, a bay leaf, and some peppercorns ; let it stew gently between two fires till well done ; then take it out, lay it on a dish, and make the liquor tolerably thick by stewing it with three spoonsful of sauce iournce. If not perfectly smooth squeeze it through a tammy, put in the juice, add a very little Cayenne pepper, and pour this sauce over the fish. Garnish with veal forcemeat. TENCH, STUFFED. Cut off the tails and fins of your tench, split them down the back, take out the large bone, and fill the spaces with a farce composed of carps, smelts, or any other fish ; close the openings with flour, and fry them in butter. When about two-thirds done put them into a stewpan, with a spoonful of good stock, sweet herbs, carp roes, pepper, and salt. Finish dressing them over a gentle fire, let the sauce reduce, and serve them. TERRAPINS. These form a favourite dish for supper and parties, and, when well cooked, they are certainly veiy delicious. Put the terrapins alive into a pot of boiling water, where they must remain till they are quite dead You then divest them of their outer skin and toe-nails, and, after washing tliem in warm water, boil them again until they become quite tender, adding a handful of salt to the water. Having satisfied yourself that they are perfectly tender, take off the shells, and clean your terrapins very carefully, removing the sandbag and gall without breaking them ; then cut the meat and entrails into small pieces, adding the juice that has been given out in cutting them up, but no water; season with salt, Cayenne, and black pepper to your taste, adding J lb. of butter to each terrapin, and a handful of flour for thickening. After stirring a short time add four or five spoonsful of cream and half a pint of good Madeira to every four terrapins, and serve hot in a deep dish. Some cooks put in a little mace, a table-spoonful of mustard, and ten drops of the gall, and just before serving add the yolks of four eggs boiled hard. During the stewing particular attention must be paid to stirring the preparation fre- quently, and it must be borne in mind that terrapins cannot possibly be too hot. TETANUS. See Locked Jaw. TETTER. See Ringworm ok the Scalp. TEWHADIDDLE. a pint of table beer (or ale if you intend it for a supplement to your " nightcap"), a table-spoonful of brandy, and a tea-spoonful of brown sugar or clarified syrup. A little grated nutmeg or ginger may be added, and a roll of very thinly cut lemon- peel. Before our readers make any remarks upon this composition we beg of them to taste it. If the materials are good they will find it one of the pleasantest beverages that they ever put to their lips. THERMOMETER. That known as Fahrm heit's is usually employed in this country. In dividing the scale of the thermometer the two fixed points usually resorted to are the freezing and boiling points of water, which always take place at the same temperature when under the same atmospheric pressure. The intermediate part of the scale is divided into any convenient number of degrees, and it is obvious that all thermometers thus constructed will indicate the same degree of heat when ex- posed to the same temperature. In the centi- grade thermometer this space is divided into 100°, the freezing of water being marked 0°, the boiling point 100°. In Fahrenheit's scale the 0° is placed at 32° below the freezing of water, which, therefore, is marked 32°, and the boiling point 212", the intermediate space being divided into 180°. Another scale is Reaumur s, the freezing point of which is 0°, the boiling point 80°. These are the principal thermo- meters used in Europe. There is, however, another, called De Lisle's, in which the gradua-