C 521 ] VEA VAR Venice turpentine, 2 ozs. ; pounded glass or clean sand, 4 ozs. Pour off the clear solution. India Rubijer Varnish. Put into a bottle 2 ozs. of India rubber cut very small, add 1 lb. of spirit 0*" iurpentine, and stop the bottle closely that the spirit may not evaporate; leave it two days without moving ; then stir the liquor with a wooden spatula, and if the India rubber is swollen and has absorbed the spirit, add a suBicient quantity for it just to swim in the liquid. Stir it every forty-eight hours till the India rubber is quite dissolved, which is ascer- tained by squeezing a little of it between the fingers. When in this state put it into a glass bottle, and keep it well corked till wanted for use. The longer it is kept the better it becomes. Le Blond's Varnish for Prints. Take of balsam of capivi 4 lbs.; copal in powder, 1 lb. Add the copal by single ounces every day to the balsam, keeping it in a warm place or in the sun, and stirring it often. When all is dis- solved add a sufficient quantity of Chio tur- pentine. Picture Varnish. Take of mastich 12 ozs.; Venice turpentine, 2^ ozs.; camphor, i drachm ; pounded glass or clean sand, 4 ozs.; oil of turpentine, 3 J pints. Pour off the clear solution. Used for oil paintings. Red Varnish. Take of gum juniper 4 ozs. ; seed-lac, 2 ozs.; mastich and choice benzoin, of each 1 oz. ; Venice turpentine, 2 ozs.; rectified spirit of wine, 1 quart. Used for violins and cabinetwork. Reddish Varnish. Take of gum juniper 8 ozs.; shellac, 2 ozs. ; black resin, 4 ozs.; Venice turpentine, 6 ozs.; rectified spirit of wine, 1 quart. This is used both upon wood and metals. Soft Brilliant Varnish. Take of gum juniper 6 ozs.; elemi, 4 ozs.; gum anime, 1 oz.; camphor, ^ oz. ; rectified spirit of wine, 1 quart. For woodwork and pasteboard. Transparent Japan Varnish for Tinware. Take of oil of turpentine 8 ozs. ; oil of lavender, 6 ozs. ; copal, 2 ozs. ; camphor, 1 drachm. Use a suitable degree of heat. Transparent Varnish. Take of gum juniper 8 ozs.; Venice turpentine, 4 ozs.; mastich, 2 ozs.; rectified spirit of wine, 2 pints. Digest till the ingredients are dissolved. Turpentine Varnish. Take of black resin 1^ lb.; oil of turpentine, 2 pints. Melt the resin, and, after having removed it from the fire, mix in gradually the turpentine. If necessary strain. Varnish for Coloured Drawings. Take of Canada balsam ] oz. ; oil of turpentine, 2 ozs. Warm them together so that they may mix. Tlie drawings should be first sized with a jelly of isinglass, and when diy apply the varnish, which will make them resemble oil paintings. Varnish for Grates, or Brunswick Black. Take of common asphaltum I lb.; melt it, and add gradually half a pint of linseed oil and one quart of oil of turpentine. See Brunswick Black. Varnish for Plaster Casi's. Take white soap and white wax, of each J oz.; boiling water, 1 quart. White Hard Varnish. Take of mastich 4 ozs.; gum juniper and Venice turpentine, of each 3 ozs.; pounded glass or very clean sand, to prevent the gums from forming an im- penetrable lump, 4 ozs.; rectified spirit of wine, 2 pints. Digest till the gums are dissolved. White Polishing Varnish. Take of mastich 2ozs.; gum juniper, 8 ozs.; elemi, 1 oz. ; Strasburg turpentine, 4 ozs.; rectified spirit of wine, 1 quart. This is used upon metal, and polished with pumice-stone powder. In the preparation of all the foregoing varnishes, except India Rubber, the gums, &c., should be all either powdered or bruised, and where not specifically mentioned it will be found that a gentle or moderate heat, and occasional stirring of the ingredients, will accelerate the process, and render it more complete. As the articles are all more or less combustible, care must be taken that the heat be applied very cautiously, and that the flame of a candle or other burning body be not brought near to the evaporating fluids, as they will readily take fire, and much mischief may be the result. VEAL. The names of joints are as follow:— 1. Loin, best end. 2. Loin, chump end. 3. Fillet. 4. Hind knuckle. 5. Fore-knuckle. C. Neck, best end. 7. Neck, scrag end. 8. Blade-bone. 9. Breast, best end. 10. Breast, brisket end. Veal should be fine in the grain, firm, white, and fat, and the leg bone small. The finest calves have the smallest kidneys, and their being well covered with thick white fat, indicates good veal. The fiilet of a cow calf is to be preferred on account of the udder. The prime joints are the fillets, the loin, the chump end of the loin, and the best end of the neck. To