ITA ISI E 83 ] ' ISINGLASS, GENUINE: To Know. It i8 frequently adulterated with shreds of the dried bladders of horses and other animal mem- branes, which may be detected by their insolu- bility in boiling water, whereas true isinglass leaves therein no filaments whatever. The genuine sort is also perfectly transparent, and is of a triangular form, while the fraudulent is round and flat. ISINGLASS JELLY. Boil 1 oz. of the shavings of isinglass with forty corns of Jamaica pepper and a crust of bread in a quart of water. Simmer till reduced to one-half, and strain it off. It may be taken in wine and water, milk, tea, or soup. ISSUE. Thisisan ulcer artificially formed for the purpose of maintaining a constant purulent discharge from the body. It is usually made by placing one or more beads or peas on an incision through the integuments in one of the limbs, or in the neighbourhood of a diseased part, and there retaining them by adhesive plaster, so as to prevent the wound from healing, and keep it in a constant state of suppuration. Other issues are made by rubbing caustic potash, or potash and quicklime, on a part of the skin till it is destroyed and sloughs, and by keeping open the ulcer thus formed either with peas or very stimulant dressings. Setons are another form of issue, made by passing a broad flat needle beneath a portion of the skin, and retaining in the passage thus formed either a skein of silk or a flat band of caoutchouc. The use of issues for the cure of constitu- tional diseases, under the idea that they remove noxious principles from the blood, is now entirely abandoned; but they are sometimes had recourse to in order to restore an habitual discharge which has been checked by the cure of any chi'onic local disease, and the cessation of which has seemed to give rise to congestion of the head or of any internal organ. But the prin- cipal value of issues is as counter-irritants, by establishing a disease which is of itself unim- portant in the neighbourhood of one which, by its situation, is more serious; and hence they are amongst the most important means in the cure of chronic inflammations of many internal organs, and especially of those of the joints and spine. The way to make the pea issue is to pinch up a portion of the skin, and to cut it through of such a size as to hold one or two peas, accord- ing to the extent of the issue we want; the peas are then introduced into the wound, and are covered up with adhesive plaster for three or four days, by which time the discharge of matter will have fairly begun. The peas are then taken out, fresh ones are put in, and this is continued every day while we wish to keep the issue open. To make an issue by a seton introduce a skein of silk into a broad needle, and push the needle through the skin, bringing it out at a greater or less distance from the place of its insertion, according to the quantity of matter wished to be daily discharged. When the needle is pushed through the skin fasten the silk, so as to allow a fresh portion to be applied to the internal surface of the wound every day. The issue by eschar is made by applying some acrid or caustic matter to destroy a portion of the skin, and when this dead portion is destroyed, and has fallen out, the ulcerated surface below is to be dressed with any irritating ointment proper to keep up the discharge. Care must be taken not to destroy more of the skin than we want. A piece of leather, covered with adhesive plaster, is to have a hole cut in it of the size we wish the issue to be. This is to be applied to the place in- tended, and the skin opposite to the hole to be rubbed with caustic potash, moistened with water, till the whole part which we wish to be destroyed puts on a dark and corroded appearance. Any superfluous caustic is to be carefully washed off, the plaster is to be removed, and a poultice to be put on the part. In a few days the eschar drops off, and leaves a raw surface, which may either be filled with peas, beads, or the like formed substances, or may be dressed with savine ointment, basilicon, or any substance to promote the discharge of matter. ISSUE PEAS. Those in general use are unripe oranges (orange berries) turned in a lathe. The unturned berries are also used. Peas are likewise turned from orris root. The following composition is used for making issue peas:—Yellow wax, 1|- oz.; powdered turmeric, 1 oz.; powdered orris, i oz.; and Venice tur- pentine a sufficient quantity. These are more stimulating, and are used to increase the dis- charge. The following, it is said, will open an issue itself:—Yellow wax, 6 ozs.; verdigris, 2 ozs.; white hellebore, 2 ozs.; cantharides, 1 oz.; orris, 1|- oz.; and Venice turpentine enough to make a thick ointment. ISSUE PLASTER. Melt and mix together lead plaster, 4 ozs.; Burgundy pitch, |-oz.; and powdered orris root, J oz. Spread the mixture thinly on linen or paper, and cut it into squares large enough to cover the issue wound. ITALIENN^. Put into a saucepan a spoon- ful of shred parsley, half a spoonful of shallots, the same of mushrooms (both minced small), half a bottle of white wine, and 1 oz. of butter. Boil till no moisture remains ; then put in two ladlesful of veloute and one of consomme. Set it to boil, taking care to slum off all the fat. When you find it about the consistence of clear broth take it from the fire, put it into another vessel, and keep it hot in the bain-marie.