[ 319 ] PHE PHE ing the breast as full as possible, over which should be laid slices of fat bacon tied on with packthread: before it is put on the spit break the back-bone, that it may lie the better on the dish. A good-sized pheasant will take half an hour to roast. When nearly done take away the bacon, brown the pheasant well, sprinkle it with flour and salt, and froth it with butter. Serve it with water-cresses, a good gravy under it, and bread sauce in a boat. PHEASANT: To Truss. Let it be well picked and singed; tfien cut a slit in the back of the neck, and carefully take out the crop without breaking it; then cut off the vent, draw out the inside, and put in a little pepper and salt, mixed with a bit of butter. Having cleansed it, proceed to truss the bird by first cutting off the pinion at the first joint, so that the feathers may not be picked off that part; break the back-bone, and truss it in the same manner as a fowl, by pressing the legs close to the apron; then turn the bird on the breast, and run the skewer through the end of the pinion, the leg, the body, and the leg and pinion on the other side, with the head fixed on the end of the skewer, and over the breast lay a slice of fat bacon, and tie it on with pack- thread. If for boiling or stewing, truss them the same as a fowl for boiling. PHEASANT, BOUDINS OF. Take all the meat from a cold roasted pheasant (without any of the skin and sinews), and mince it very small; break the bones in pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with a small quantity of water; draw out tlie essence of them over the fire, and soak some bread in it; boil six onions in broth, season them with salt, pepper, cloves, nutmeg, and a little basil and parsley. When done mince and mix them with the pheasant and bread; put the whole into a mortar, and pound it; dilute with'cream, add the yolks of six eggs, f lb. of beef cut into dice, salt, and spices. Put the preparation into skins as usual. PHEASANT WITH CABBAGES. Take a trussed pheasant, and lard the breast and legs with bacon rolled in pepper, salt, and pounded spice ; cover it with bacon, line a stewpan with bacon also, and put in the pheasant, with three moderate-sized servelas, four carrots, four onions, two cloves, two bay leaves, some slices of veal, and 1 lb. of streaked bacon. Blanch the cabbages, tie them up that they may not lose their shape, put them to the pheasant, with stock and pep- per, and let them simmer for two hours ; then drain the cabbages, place the pheasant in the centre of a dish, the other articles round, and serve with a fumet of game. PHEASANT WITH CELERY. Prepare a pheasant the same as a fowl is prepared for boiling ; then stew it in any kind of good braise till it is well done. Have ready six fine heads of celery cut into rounds about the size of a shilling, blanch them for a few minutes, drain them on a sieve, and then put them to stew till nearly dry in good stock. Have ready some good brown sauce, with a piece of butter mixed in it; put the celery to this, add one squeeze of lemon juice, stir it gently, pour the whole over the pheasant, and serve it to the table hot. PHEASANT IN FILLETS. Cut out the fillets of the breast the same as from a fowl, lay them on a table, and with a large knife cut them into three thin slices; then lay them care- fully in some clarified butter. When all are done sprinkle a little salt over them, do them for a minute over a quick fire (turning them on each side), but be careful that they are not brown ; drain them from the butter, dish them in the form of a star, and pour over them some butter sauce very hot, with half a lemon squeezed into it. PHEASANT, GELATINE OF. Soak and blanch a fine fat liver, and cut it in halves, each of which divide into four slices; pound two of these, a partridge boned, and an equal quantity of fat bacon ; season the whole highly, adding the yolks of two eggs and sweet herbs, the latter dressed in a little butter. When these ingredients are thoroughly pounded rub the farce through a quenelle sieve. Take a plump pheasant that has hung for some days, lay it open on a napkin, season it highly, and spi'ead half the farce over it; on this put three of the slices of liver, and between each some truffles cut in halves; strew over a proper quantity of spiced salt, then half the remaining farce, the liver, truffles, and spice as before; cover the whole with the rest of the farce, sew up the bird in its original form, and cook the gelatine in the usual way. {See Par- tridges, Gelatine of.) The pheasant, how- ever, requires to be three houre on the fire. PHEASANT, GRATIN OF. Mince ex- tremely fine the breast of a pheasant that has been roasted, and put in some good bechamel sauce; mix it well up, and add a little lemon juice; then pour it into a dish, shake over it a few bread crumbs, sprinkle it with clarified butter, and then with more bread crumbs, and, just before it is wanted, colour it with the sala- mander. PHEASANT WITH OLIVES. Stuff a pheasant with a farce composed of fat livers, truffles, scallions (all minced), streaked bacon pounded, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, mixed to- gether with one or two yolks of eggs ; wrap the bird in a slice of bacon, and roast it. When done serve it with olives stewed in rich veal gravy, poured round. PHEASANT A LA PERIGEAUX. Hav>. ing picked and singed a pheasant, take out tho