[ 524 ] VEA VEA mix the whole, and season with Caj'enne pepper, salt, and nutmeg; lay it upon a caul, roll it up closely, bind it in a cloth, and let it Loil for an hour. When done cut it into four slices, put one at each end, and the others on the sides; cut a sweetbread in slices, fry them, and lay them round the veal with some mushrooms. This is a noble dish for the bottom of a table when there is no game. VEAL, BREAST OF (Ragouted). Half roast and then bone a breast of veal, and put it into a tossing-pan, with a quart of veal gravy, 1 oz. of morels, and the same of truffles ; stew till tender, and previously to thickening the gravy put in a few oysters, pickled mushrooms, and cucumbers cut small, with three or four hard eggs ; cut the sweetbread in slices, and fry them of a light brown. Serve up the veal with the gravy poured hot over it. Lay the sweetbread round, with truffles, morels, and eggs upon it: garnish with pickled barberries. This is a good dish either for the top or side at dinner, or a bottom one for supper. VEAL, BREAST OF (Roasted). Breast of veal should be roasted with the caul on till almost done enough ; then take it up, flour, and baste it. VEAL, BREAST OF (Stewed). Put a breast of veal into a saucepan, with a little stock, a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, some mushrooms, two or three onions, some pepper and salt, and let it stew gently until quite tender. When done lay the meat in a dish, skim and strain the liquor, and serve over the meat. Garnish with forcemeat balls. VEAL, BREAST OF (Stuffed). Take I lb. of fillet of veal and 1 lb. of udder ; mince and mi.^ with them parsley, shallots, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and the yolks of three eggs ; cut off the end of the rib-bones of a breast of veal, make an incision between the top of the meat and ribs, which fill with as much of the farce as it will hold ; then sew it up that none of the farce may escape, lay the veal in a braising-pan between rashers of bacon, add some poelee, and stock if necessary, and braise it for three hours. When done let it drain, untie, and glaze it; put some reduced Espagnole, a bit of glaze, and 1 oz. of butter into the liquor; let the latter dissolve, stir it well, and pour it over the breast of veal. VEAL, BROILED (Venetian way). Cut some slices of veal tolerably thick and large, and let them marinate for about an hour in a little oil, chopped parsley, mushrooms, shallots, bay leaf, thyme, basil, pepper, and salt; let as much of the marinade adhere to them as you possibly can, strew over them bread crumbs, and broil them gently ; baste them with the remains of the marinade, and servo with a squeeze of a lemon or a Seville orango over them. VEAL BROTH (1). Stew a knuckle of veal in a gallon of water, and add thereto 2 ozs. of rice or vermicelli, some salt, and a little mace. When the meat is thoroughly done, and the liquor reduced about one-half, it will be fit for use. VEAL BROTH (2). Take 2 lbs. of lean beef, 1 lb. of scrag of veal, 1 lb. of scrag mutton, sweet herbs, and ten peppercoms ; put the whole into a saucepan, with five quarts of water, and let it simmer till reduced to three quarts ; then take it off, and set it to cool, after which clear it from fat. If agreeable an onion may be added. VEAL CAKE. Boil hard si.x or eight eggs, cut the yolks in two, and lay some of the pieces at the bottom of a pot; add thereto some chopped parsley, lay thereon slices of veal and ham, add more egg, then shake in another layer of parsley, with pepper and salt, and so on alternately till the pot is nearly full; then put in water enough to cover it, lay thereon about 1 oz. of butter, tie it over with paper, and bake it about an hour. When cold it may be put into a mould. VEAL CANNELONS. Cut your veal into very thin slices all the same size—at least three inches square ; lay on each slice some godiveau, roll it up so that it may not be more than an inch thick, fasten all the edges with white of egg, so that they may look like pieces of cane, and stew them in a covered pan with veal gravy and consomme. When done drain them, strain the sauce, take off all the fat, and let it cool to glaze the cannelons. VEAL CHOPS, BREADED. Take six or seven handsomely cut chops, season them with salt and pepper, and put them into melted butter. When sufficiently soaked put them into beaten eggs, take them out, and roll each separately in bread crumbs ; make the chops as round as you can with your hand, and lay them in a dish. When all are breaded broil them slowly over a moderate fire, that the bread may not be too highly coloured. Serve with clear gravy. VEAL CHOPS, FONDANTES. Separate the chops from the bones, take out all the sinews, mince the meat very small, and also some streaked bacon ; mix them together, and season the whole with pepper, salt, and spices; spread this farce on pieces of caul, making each the shape of a chop ; buiy a bone in every one, so that the end only will be seen; cover these with bread crumbs mixed with sweet herbs, and fry them in lard : let the pan be very hot. Serve them dry, or not, as you please. VEAL, CHUMP OF (A la Daube). Cut