[ 13 ] HAI HAT emollient to the hair may be requisite, hut when it is applied it should be used with a niggard hand ; for, however powerful the perfume may be that is amalgamated with the preparation, the odour of the greasy substance will predominate more or less : thus ladies who indulge in the habitual use of oils and pomades should invariably wear their tresses en bandeau lisse. We must be allowed to give a few words of advice to such of our fair readers as arrange their hair in ringlets, or, as our neighbours term it, d VAnglaise. Their tresses should not be allowed to flutter unrestrained, being agitated by every passing breeze and movement of the head, but should be confined by gathering them under, and loop- ing them behind the ear. For evening attire a white Camellia Japonica and buds might be placed advantageously amidst the " wavy locks," if they be of a raven hue ; if of a lighter shade a blush or pink rose might be substituted. We have felt surprise and regret that bodkins or pins are not more generally used in this country as ornaments for the hair, and we know not a more simply elegant coiffure than the national one of Ceylon. All its women, whether of high or low degree, draw their locks from off their brows, and twist them into a knot at the back of their head, the hair being maintained in form by tortoiseshell, silver, or golden pins. Two of these pins, somewhat the shape of an arrow, are inserted into the centre of the knot in a transverse direction, and one pin with a flat, semicircular head is placed on each side of the knot close to the head. Words will not convey an adequate idea of the exquisite effect produced by this style of ornamenting the head, which is as simple as elegant. These pins do not assimilate in the most remote degree with the bodkins used either by the Eussian, Swiss, or Italian peasantry, and are equally dissimilar to those worn by the Chinese ; and in no part of the globe in which we have been have we seen anything resembling them in form or beauty. The Cingalese pins are made either of carved tortoiseshell lined with silver (the glitter- ing of the white metal in the interstices of the perforations contrasting finely with the dark shell), of silver richly worked in chasing or filigree, or of embossed gold studded with precious stones. The tortoiseshell and silver pins vary in price from five rix dollars (7s. 6d.) to thirty rix dollars (£2 5s.). These are worn by the females in their ordinary attire, the golden pins being only used in full dress by the wives and daughters of the moodliars, or chiefs. These are extremely costly, their value being estimated by the weight of metal, perfection of workman- ship, and beauty of the gems wherewith the bodkins are studded. The Kandian ruby is con eidered by the natives of the island as the most valuable precious stone, and when these rubies are free from defects, either of colour or form, the wealthy Cingalese will give enormous prices for them. We knew a chief's wife whose four hair ornaments, studded with these gems, cost 3500 rix dollars. Starch should never be used in the laundiying of nightcaps, for it rubs out and makes the hair dusty. For the following notes on the general management of the hair we are indebted to a writer in "The Magazine of Domestic Economy:"—The first thing neces- sary to preserve the hair is general health of body, obtained by keeping the skin in perfect order. If the stomach be habitually over- loaded with food, over-excited by intemperance, especially of diet and strong drink, or weakened by sympathy with the skin in a relaxed and unhealthy state, there is always a tendency in the hair to drop off. The body must, therefore, be brought into a condition of the most healthy action. This is the first point. The next is to keep the hair itself in proper order. The epidermal scales of the skin of the head are permitted to accumulate in some individuals until they are difficult to remove. They are known by the name of scurf. When the head perspires freely this scurf is soon saturated with the perspired matter, which, sojourning near the roots of the hair, weakens its energy, and at times it will come off abundantly in the brush or comb. The skin of the head must, therefore, be kept perfectly clean, and in a state of proper tone. To effect this a brush should be used, thrice a day if possible, which is strong, not too close, and will penetrate through the hair to the skin. This application of the brush, on rising in the morning, should last fully half an hour, and if the hair belong to a lady, and be very thick and long, a quarter of an hour more should be devoted to brushing it, making in all three quarters of an hour. On dressing for dinner the brush should be applied to the head during five or six minutes, and for about ten minutes at night. It is often serviceable to rub into the hair in the morning, before the brush is applied, either hair powder or bran—it is almost immaterial which, though we think the first preferable. By either the removal of the scurf will be facilitated ; but the substance employed must be well brushed out. When the scurf is very tenacious, and the hair has been neglected, it may be removed by the following means:—The yolks of two eggs are beaten up with the juice of a lemon, and the mixture well rubbed into the hair, using a great deal of friction with the finger upon the skin of the head. The mixture is then washed off with abundance of lukewarm soft water, and the hair dried by a process we shall presently describe.