[ 493 ] TO A TIN flies reduced to a fine powder, 2 ozs. ; spirit of ■wine, 1 pint. Infuse for two or three days; tlien strain off the tincture. This is intended as an acrid stimulant for external use. Parts affected with the palsy or chronic I'heumatism may be frequently rubbed with it. The Tonic Tincture. Mix. 2 ozs. of the compound tincture of Peruvian bark with the like quantity of the volatile tincture of valerian, and of this mixture a tea-spoonful in a glass of wine or water is to be taken three or four times a day. For the relief of those peculiar affec- tions of the stomach and bowels, such as in- digestion, &c., which generally accompany ner- vous diseases. Volatile Fetid Tincture. Infuse 2 ozs. of asafoetida in one pint of volatile aromatic spirit for eight days in a close bottle, fre- quently shaking it; then strain the tincture. This medicine is beneficial in hysteric disorders, especially when attended with lowness of spirits and faintings. A tea-spoonful of it may be taken in a glass of wine or a cup of penny- royal tea. Volatile Tincture of Gum Guaiacum. Take of gum guaiacum 4 ozs.; volatile aromatic spirit, ] pint. Infuse without heat in a vessel well stopped for a few days; then strain off the tincture. In rheumatic complaints a tea-spoon- ful of this tincture may be taken in a cup of the infusion of water trefoil twice or thrice a day. TINDER. Since the introduction of lucifer matches the old tinder-box, with its steel, flint, and brimstone matches, is becoming a mere matter of history, and has probably never been seen even by some of our readers. A round tin box containing some tinder, formed by burning a rag until reduced to a black mass, and then the burning extinguished by putting over it a tin lid fitting inside the box, was kept by every cook and housemaid thirty years ago. A steel held in one hand, and struck by a sharp-edged flint, shed sparks which, falling into the tinder, ignited it sufficiently to kindle into a flame the sulphur attached to the end of a sharp-pointed deal match. TIPSY CAKE (1). Pour over a sponge cake, made in the form of a porcupine, as much white wine as it will absorb, and stick it all over with blanched sweet almonds cut like straws ; or pour wine in the same manner over a thick slice of sponge cake, cover the top of it with preserved strawberries or raspberries, and stick cut almonds all round it. TIPSY CAKE (2). Make a sponge cake, and soak it for some hours in white wine, with a glass of brandy added to it. When quite soft have some almonds ready blanched, and stick them all round the cake, so as to give it the appearance of a porcupine ; cut some citron-peel into very narrow strips, and put a circle round the cake so as to form loops. Have a custard ready, and when the cake is placed on the dish in which it is to be sent to table pour the custard round, but not over it. The following is the receipt for the custard :—One pint and a half of new milk and half a pint of cream, boiled with white sugar and laurel leaves. When almost cold stir in the yolks of six eggs very much beaten, and keep it near a slow fire till it thickens, stirring it one way all the time, but do not let it boil. TOAST. {See Breakfast.) To save butter, and to avoid the indigestion usually produced by toast soaked in oiled butter, it is a good plan to sprinkle the toast plentifully with boiling water before applying the butter. TOAST IN A MIISUTE, or Italian Toast. Cut some slices of bread half an incli thick, and fry them in sweet oil—let them be dry and crisp ; lay them on a dish, spread over them any light farce you may think proper, pour over them an appropriate sauce, and serve them. TOAST, POUNDED. Pound together a piece of puff paste, a cold roasted veal kidney, some of the fat, a few bitter almonds, orange flowers, lemon-peel, preserved citron, a pinch of salt, and a little sugar; bind these together with the whites of four eggs beaten well, spread this preparation over slices of bread cut as for toast, and bake them. TOAST, PUFFED. Pound together the breast of a roasted fowl, some beef marrow, and Parmesan cheese, and mix with this paste five eggs, the yolks well beaten, and the whites beaten to a froth; spread it over slices of fried bread, egg them, and strew grated bread and Parmesan cheese over; bake them a little while, and serve them with a good relisliing sauce. TOAST WITH SAGE AND ONIONS. Half boil some sage and onions in two waters, then fry them in butter, and season with pepper and salt: lay the mixture on buttered toast, with brown gravy. It is very good with mustard and apple sauce. A little water in which aspagagus or peas have been boiled, poured upon the toast, is an improvement, or the toast may be dipped in the water. TOAST, SPANISH. Roll out some almond paste nearly an inch thick; cut it into pieces about two inches square, and press them down with a square piece of wood a little smaller than the paste, which will leave the edges higher than the rest; bake them, and when cold pour in any prepared cream you please as high as the borders. Ice and colour them with a salamander. TOAST, SWEET. Boil a stick of cinna-