HAR HAR r 28 ] become slightly browned. Cooked in this way they will be found a very excellent and sub- stantial dish, care being taken that they do not get too dry. 3. Boil as before, and strain dry ; then put them into a frying-pan, with slices of bacon, ham, or pork ; slightly brown them, and serve up together ; or some will add a few thin slices of onion to make a more savoury dish. 4. In stews, hashes, or haricots it is best first to boil till the skins begin to crack ; then strain, put them into the stew or hash, &c., and cook thoroughly. HARRISON CAKE. Five cupsful of flour, two cupsful of molasses, one cupful and a half of butter, four eggs, a cupful of milk, spice, 2 lbs. of raisins, and a tea-spoonful of saleratus. HARROWGATE WATER. Harrowgate, situated in an agreeable countiy, ornamented with a variety of elegant seats, in the centre of the county of York, and adjoining to the town of Knaresborough, has long possessed con siderable reputation by containing very valuable chalybeate and sulphureous springs. Some time ago the former were confined to internal, and the latter to external use. At present the sulphureous springs are employed largely as an internal remedy likewise. The water, when first taken up, is perfectly clear and transparent, and sends forth a few air bubbles. It has a strongly fetid smell like rotten eggs, and has a nauseous, bitter, and saline taste; but such is the power of habit'in reconciling the palate to the most disagreeable flavour, that most persons soon drink this water without disgust. On exposure to the air it loses its transparency, and becomes pearly and greenish; at the same time the sulphureous odour abates, and the sulphur is precipitated. Its specific gravity is r0064. Its foreign contents are, in a wine gallon,— Grains. Chloride of sodium . . 616-5 Cliloride of calcium 13- Chloride of magnesium . 91- Carbonate of lime 18-5 Carbonate of magnesia 5-5 Sulphate of magnesia . 10'5 7540 Cubic inches. Carbonic acid gas . 8 Azotic gas . . . 7 Sulphuretted hydrogen . . 19, U This analysis shows that the HajTowgate water is very compound in its composition, holding in solution a number of purgative salts, with ope-twejfth of its bulk of sulphuretted hydrogen, or hepatic gas. To this combination of active principles it seems to owe its valuable properties, but particularly to the sulphuretted hydrogen gas, which has a powerful action on the secretory organs resembling that of mercmy, but without any of its injurious effects. Harrowgate water is, therefore, an excellent alterative, and particularly well calculated for those diseases where such an operation is re- quired, as elephantiasis, leprosy, all those pimply eruptions called in popular language scorbutic, and for every other cutaneous disorder; for painful contractions of limbs, the remains of rheumatism, gout, or palsy; for scrofula, for some other morbid effects of atmospherical impression, for various obstructions of the liver and other organs connected with the alimentaiy canal, and for all affections arising from a depraved condition of the body. The virtue of sulphur as a mild unirritating aperient has caused this water to be esteemed as a valuable remedy in piles and fistula in ano, and its character of being a poison to intestinal worms has brought it into use as a safe and powerful anthelmintic. When thus emploj'ed it should be in such a dose as to piove a brisk purgative. In cases of ascarides it may be used in the form of a clyster. The dose of this water is generally such a quantity as produces a sensible effect on the bowels. Three or four glasses, containing half a pint each, taken at moderate intervals, are usually found sufficient. They should be drunk fresh from the spring, and cold, for the sul- phureous impregnation is dissipated by heating. Sugar comfits and aromatic seeds are frequently eaten to coiTect the nauseous taste of the water; but Dr. Garnet recommends a small quantity of sea-biscuit or coarse bread as more effectual, without cloying the stomach. The duration of a course of Harrowgate water necessarily varies according to the nature and inveteracy of the disease. The warm sulphureous baths should be con- joined with the internal use of the water, which should, in all diseases requiring a powerful determination to the skin, be taken warm, and repeated at proper intervals, to assist the full perspiration pi'omoted by the bathing. For the same purpose the invalid should be wrapped in flannel, and confined for some hours in bed. These baths being artificially heated, some of the sulphuretted hydrogen gas, on which their activity depends, is thereby lost. They are consequently inferior to the natural warm baths on the continent, the waters of which, receiving the temperature within the earth under circum- stances of great pressure, suffer no material loss of hepatic gas when immediately used. During the use of this natural remedy tne