RUB t 405 1 HUM produce redness and counter irritation when a blister is not deemed necessary. RUBY. This precious stone, like many others, is only crystallised clay. 1. The deep red ruby is found in various parts of the East Indies, and also in Brazil. 2. The spinel, the shade of which resembles that of a bright corn-poppy flower: it is dug out of the mines of Hungary, Bohemia, Silesia, and South America. . 3. The balass, or pale red ruby, inclining to a violet, is supposed to be the mother of the different species of these gems. It is imported principally from Brazil, though a few are some- times brought from the East Indies. 4. The rubicel is of a reddish yellow, and is likewise obtained from the Brazils. There is a variety of this gem found in considerable numbers on the seashore near Ely, in the county of Fife; also near Portsoy, Banffshire; and at Inverary, Ai'gyleshire, in Scotland. Rubies are held in great esteem, on account of their lustre and the beauty of their ivater: hence they are sold "at high prices, and often counterfeited by Brazilian topazes, which are gradually heated in a crucible previously filled with ashes till they become red-hot. RUE. The common rue (Ruta graveolevs), which is the type of this family, is well known. It is also called herb of grace and country- man's treacle, and was held in high estimation by the old herbalists for its reputed virtues. The plant has a strong, disagreeable odour, and is bitter, hot, and acrid, and, when fresh, blisters the skin if much handled. Its virtues depend on a volatile oil, which is very abundant, and is contained in glandular vesicles apparent over the whole surface of the plant. Rue is stimulant and antispasmodic, and, like most other sub- stances which excite the circulation, occasionally increases the secretions, especially when they are deficient from debility. A strong infusion exhibited by the anus has been found of great service in relieving the convulsions of infants arising from flatulence and other intestinal irritations. The dos3 of the powdered leaves is from 15 grains to 2 scruples twice or thrice a day. Oil of Rue is also stimulant and anti- spasmodic. It is given sometimes in hysteria, and the convulsions of children arising from dentition, and is used as a rubefacient in palsy. The dose is from 2 to 5 drops, rubbed with sugar or mucilage. RUFFS AND REEVES. These are particularly delicate birds, and should therefore be handled very lightly in the picking. They must be run side by side upon a long skewer, roasted for twelve or fourteen minutes at a good distance from the fire, and basted with butter. Serve with good gravy in the dish, and bread sauce in a boat. RUM is distilled from a fermented mixture, or wash, of molasses, sciimmings of boiling cane juice, and dunder, which last named material is the lees left after previous distillations. The whole are mixed and allowed to ferment for seven or eight days, and when the mixture throws up clear globules, or bubbles, it is fit for distillation. The first distillation produces a spirit called " low wines." To make this into rum of Jamaica proof it is distilled a second time. Twelve hundred gallons of wash produce 530 gallons of low wines, and from these are dis- tilled 220 gallons of proof rum. A third dis- tillation obtains from these 220 gallons about 113 gallons of marketable rum. The derivation of the name rum is not very apparent. Old Boyer, in 1729, in defining rum, says, " Or kill-devil, a drink used in Barbadoes, much stronger than brandy." Rum is said to be a cant synonyme of " rich and excellent." Thus the very superior brandy of Nantz was called n<m-Nantz; and London, in the same cant phraseology, was known as Rum-y\\\e. This and some others may be seen in Bailey's Dictionary, published in 1735. We are the more inclined to think the name is of English origin because other nations have for it names very dissimilar. Thus the French call it tafia, and the Brazilians at the commencement of the seventeenth century called it garapa. If crystallised sugar were fermented by itself the produce, when distilled, would be mere spirit of wine, without any of the flavour peculiar to rum. This flavour, therefore, is generated by the acid and other ingredients in the molasses and dunder. The ingredients are chlorophyl, or green colouring matter, an acid called the melasses acid, but which is probably the acetic, and a peculiar oil which gives the cane juice, when fresh, a balmy odour. During fermenta- tion these form ethers and combinations similar to those occurring during the fermentation of grape juice; and to these ethers and combina- tions the peculiar flavour of rum is owing. The rum imported into the United Kingdom is entirely the produce of our West India Islands, and chiefly of Jamaica. The quantity in 1856 amounted to 7,169,163 gallons.—[Johnson's Chemistry of the World.) Pine-apple rum is only rum in which slices of pine-apple have been soaked. One slice to a bottle is sufficient. RUM JELLY. To a quart of common white wine add 1 lb. of lump sugar reduced to a syrup, and clarified; then take 1 oz. of isinglass, dissolve, and mix it with the syrup milk warm. When this mixture is nearly cold pour it. into the white wine; stir it well so as