MIL [ 213 ] MIL The best milk is obtained from the cow at three or lour years of age, about three months after producing the calf, and in a serene spring morning. Good cows' milk ought to be white, without any smell; and so fat that a drop being allowed to fall on the finger nail will not run down in divisions. It is lighter, but contains more ■watery parts than the milk of sheep and goats ; while, on the other hand, it is more thick and heavy than the milk of asses and mares, which comes nearest the consistence of human milk. Ewes' milk is rich and nourishing; it yields much butter, which, however, is so unsavoury that it cannot be eaten. Both this and goats' milk produce much cheese, which is tough, strong, pungent, and difficult to be digested. As goats are fond of astringent herbs their mUk is superior in strength to that of other animals, and hence it has been sometimes used with the most happy success in hysteric cases. Goats' whey and asses' milk are chiefly used in pulmonary consumptions; and, where asses' milk cannot be got, that of mares may be used as a substitute. Milk consists of cheesy, buttery, and watery parts: that which contains a well-proportioned mixture of the three is the most wholesome. But this mixture is not always met with in due proportion—frequently the first two, namely, cheese and butter, predominate; and in this case it affords, indeed, a strong food, but is diffi- cult of digestion. If the water forms the greatest proportion it is then easily digested, but less nourishing. This is particularly the case with asses' milk, which, more than any other, afiects the urine and stool, while it has a tendency to purify the blood. On account of the warmth and the mechanical process of the digestive organ, joined to the chemical properties of the acid generated in it, milk necessarily coagulates in every stomach. The cheesy part is dissolved and diluted by the admixture of the digestive liquors, and thus prepared for being changed into a pure chyle or milky fluid. Indeed, it makes no difference whether we take cream, cheese, and whey in succession, or whether we consume them united in the mass oi the milk: in the former case the separation takes place without, and in the latter within, the stomach. It is, however, improper to eat acid sub- stances together with milk, as this mass would occasion fermentation and corruption ; while, on the contrary, the natural coagulation is only a separation of the constituent parts, not a transi- tion ot this mild fluid into the stage of acid fermentation, for this is prevented by the saponaceous digestive liquors, though the milk itself be coagulated. Yet milk is not a proper food for the debili- tated in all cases; nay, under certain circum stances it may even be hurtful. It does not, for instance, agree with hypochondriacs, as it occasions cramp of the stomach, colic, heart- burn, and diarrhoea. Febrile patients, whose weak organs of digestion do not admit of nutritive food, and whose preternatural heat would too easily change the milk into a rancid mass, must abstain from it altogether. It dis- agrees also with the plethoric, the phlegmatic, and the corpulent, but particularly with tip- plers, or those addicted to strong spirits. Its butyrous and cheesy parts may obstruct diges- tion and oppress the stomach. Lastly, sour milk is unfit for nse, on account of the chemical decomposition which has taken place in its constituent parts, and because it can hardly be digested by the most powerful stomach: even sweet milk ought not to bo eaten together with flesh, and in most cases the whey is preferable to the milk. With these exceptions milk is an excellent species of diet, which does not require strong digestive organs, unless a variety of other sub- stances be eaten with it. On the contrary, per- sons much reduced in bodily vigour have received benefit, and in a great measure been cured by taking milk only. We daily observe that children at the breast, with the natural inclina- tion to acidity and viscosity, feel its bad effects only when, together with milk, they are fed upon cakes, pastry, gingerbread, and other trash. Milk, being free from all acrimony, produces wholesome, light, and sweet blood. Sugar and salt are almost the only proper flavourings to be added to it. MILK: To Pkevent Tdrnikg Soue. When the weather is hot milk and cream may be kept perfectly sweet by scalding the same very gently, without boiling, in broad shallow pans, or in a jar set in a boiler of hot water; and this is, perhaps, the best and simplest plan. MILK: To Take the Turnip Taste fkom. To every two gallons add a quart of boiling water, mix well, and let it stand for cream. This will give sweet butter all the winter; but, as that weakens the skim milk, a small bit of salt- petre or a piece of stone lime may be put into every dish. MILK OF ALMONDS See Almokd Milk. MILK, ASSES'. See Ass. MILK, BUTTER. Put six quarts of butter- milk into a cheese cloth, hang it in a cool place, and let the whey drip from it for two or three days. When it is rather thick put it into a basin, sweeten it with pounded loaf sugar, and add a glass of brandy or of sweet wine, and as much raspberry jam or syrup as will colour and give it an agreeable flavour. Whisk all well