LEM [ 138 ] LEM off all the peel, and put it into a strainer ; wet some sugar, boil it to candy height, and then take it off; put in the grated lemon-peel, set it on the fire again, and let it boil up. Squeeze in a little lemon juice, and drop the cakes on buttered plates or paper. LEMON CHEESECAKES (1). Boil the peel of two large lemons till it is quite tender, and then pound it well in a mortar with 4 ozs. or 5 ozs. of loaf sugar, the yolks of six eggs, ff lb. of fresh butter, and a little finely beaten curd. Pound and mix all these together; lay a rich puff paste in some patty pans; half fill them, and bake them carefully. LEMON CHEESECAKES (2). Mix 4 ozs. of sifted lump sugar and 4 ozs. of butter to- gether, and gently melt it; then add the yolks of two eggs and the white of one, the rind of three lemons shred finely, and the juice of one lemon and a half, one Savoy biscuit, some blanched almonds pounded, and three spoonsful of brandy. MLx the whole well together, and put it to paste made with the following ingre- dients :—Flour, 8 ozs.; butter, 6 ozs.; two- thirds of which must be mixed with the flour first; then wet it with six spoonsful of water, and roll it in the remainder of the butter. LEMON CHIPS, GRILLAGE OF. Pare off the rinds of your lemons as thin as possible, and put them into double the quantity of sugar boiled to grande plume; stir them well, squeeze a little lemon juice over, and lay them on a baking plate previously rubbed with oil ; strew powder sugar over, and dry them in a stove. LEMON CONSERVE. Grate the rind of a lemon on a piece of sugar (about 1 lb.), scrape off the surface of the sugar, as the lemon adheres to it, until you have rasped the whole of the rind ; squeeze half the juice on the scraped sugar, and then boil the rest to grande jilume. Take it from the fire when at this degree, and let it stand a little; stir in the lemon gently, and when it forms a sort of glace on the top of the sugar pour the conserve into moulds, being careful, however, that it is not too hot. LEMON CONSERVE, WHITE. Boil 1 lb. of the finest sugar, take it off the fire, and squeeze into it the juice of one lemon at dif- ferent times, stirring continually: it will make the sugar as white as milk if properly done. Take care not to drop any of the seeds into it. Work well together, and when it is of an equal substance (which prove in the same manner as any other jelly), pour it into a mould. LEMON CREAM. Take a pint of thick cream, and put to it the yolks of two eggs well beaten, J lb. of fine sugar, and the rind of a hmon cut very thin. Boil all these up, and then stir till almost cold; put the juice of a lemon into a dish or basin, and pour the cream upon it, stirring till quite cold. LEMON CREAM, CLEAR. Take a little hartshorn jelly, and put into it the peel of two lemons, taking care that there is none of the white; set it over the fire, and let it boil. Tako the whites of six eggs, and beat them well; take the juice of four lemons, grate the peel into the juice, let it soak a little while, and afterwards mix the juice and eggs together; put in a sufiicient quantity of double-refined sugar to sweeten it, let it boil very fast nearly a quarter of an hour, then strain it through a jelly'bag, and as it runs through put it in again till it is quite clear, after which take the peel of the lemons boiled in it, and cut it into each glass. Stir the cream till it is half cold, and then pour it on the peel in the glasses. LEMON CREAM ICES (1). Take two fine large lemons, rub then- rind on a piece of sugar, scrape it off, and put it on paper ; then set two quarts of cream on the fire to boil. In the meanwhile whisk the whites of twelve eggs to a snow, then add to it the twelve yolks and 1 lb. of finely sifted sugar. When well mixed put them a little at a time to the boiling cream, with the scraped sugar; boil up the whole two or thi'ee times, stirring constantly, and poui* it through a sieve into a basin. When cold put it into the mould and ice it. LEMON CREAM ICES (2). Take the juice of three or four lemons, and grate the peel of one lemon; add two gills of syrup and one pint of cream; mix the whole together, pass it through a sieve, and freeze it. LEMON CREAM, YELLOW. Grate offthe peel of four lemons, squeeze the juice on it, let it steep four or five hours, strain it, and put to it the whites of eight eggs and the yolks of two, well beaten and strained; add thereto 1 lb. of double-refined sugar, a quarter of a pint of rose water, and a pint of spring water ; stir all these together ; set it on a quick fire, but do not let it boil. It is done sufiiciently when it creams. LEMON CUSTARD. Beat the yolks of ten eggs, strain them, and beat them with a pint of cream ; sweeten the juice of two lemons, boil it with the peel of one, and strain it. When cold stir it to the cream and eggs till it nearly boils, or put it into a dish, grate over the rind of a lemon, and brown it with a salamander. LEMON DROPS. Grate three lemons with a large piece of double-refined sugar; then scrape the sugar into a plate, and add half a tea- spoonful of flour; mix well together, and beat up into a light paste with the white of an egg. Drop it upon white paper, put the drops on a tin plate, and set them in a moderate oven.