SHO I 438 ] SHO of inflammation of the brain, of mental aberra- tion, of violent neuralgia, or where a tendency to apoplexy exists. In those cases the water is made to fall in a very small stream from a con- siderable height, which certainly causes a sensa- tion of considerable weight, and at times occa- sions great pain ; but when the water flows in a copious shower, falling from not higher than a foot or eighteen inches above the head, as is the case in the ordinary shower-bath, neither is the shock formidable nor the sensation produced unpleasant. In summer the bi'acing power of the shower- bath is almost a renovation of life. The feel- ing arising from it is one of luxurious delight, and a vigour is sent through the system, whieh the heat of the dog-days would tend to destroy. In India the shower-bath, often in a very rude form, that of mere earthenware pots of cold water thrown over the head and body from a certain height, is used by all classes of Euro- peans, and the most delicate ladies enjoy it as one of the indispensable comforts of the climate. During the hot weather in our own country it ■would be found equally beneficial if the preju- dice against it could be overcome, and if, in- stead of a medical remedy, it could be con- sidered an article of luxury. Many persons accustomed to the shower-bath take it all the year through, using the cold water in the depth of winter and during the hardest frost. But under this degree of intense cold the discharge of water should not last long, because the reaction being induced in a much shorter space of time than when the temperature is more elevated, might with difficulty take place if it were kept too long in check. Some constitutions, however, find inconvenience from the extreme cold produced when the water is so near the freezing point; and when this is the case a certain quantity of hot water may be poured into the reservoir at the top of the bath, so that the temperature be made sufficiently high not to cause inconvenience, and yet kept low enough to give the shock and produce the reaction required. One of the most eminent physicians in the metropolis uses the shower- bath with cold water during the whole year, a practice which he has now continued for a period of six or seven years with the greatest benefit to his health, and more especially with a perfect release from dyspepsia, to which he was previously a constant victim. From his expe- rience of the benefits he has himself derived from it, the use of the shower-bath forms part of his practice, and the good he has effected with it is almost marvellous, even the most delicate ladies using it without dread, and deriving from it a renovation of health and vigour, which they before thought had gone from them for ever. To those who-would begin to use the shower- bath as a permanent remedy we would recom- mend the summer as the best season for such beginning. In winter, the shock being much greater, and the patient probably unaccustomed to exposure to cold, the effect might be too strong, especially upon sickly temperaments, which require great caution in the medical treatment applied to them. If, however, the case were pressing, the temperature of the water might first be raised by adding hot water, and then gradually diminished. The best time to use this remedy—luxury we would fain term it—is in the morning im- mediately on leaving the bed, as it gives an equilibrium to the constitution, which enables it to go through the duties of the coming day. Besides the healthy glow imparted to the whole body, an appetite is ci-eated, and the means given of properly digesting, in reasonable quan- tities, the food which the stomach craves. In- digestion is the usual concomitant of a seden- tary life, and of the practice which generally attends it of overloading the stomach with strong and half-crude animal food ; and the consequences of this complaint are more fatal to human life than people generally imagine. It is the cause of numerous cases of apoplexy and of nervous debility which are constantly attributed to other causes, the former to an excess of health, the latter to an excess of con- stitutional weakness—both, in short, to any- thing but the right cause. When dyspepsia becomes evident the stomach is in such a state that it will scarcely digest anything, and the disturbance of the whole system is alarming. Nothing removes this disturbance so soon as the shower-bath combined with any slight medical treatment, and those dyspeptics who try this remedy are soon convinced of its efficacy. Some persons have an objection to cold water coming in contact with their head ; others com- plain that such contact produces pain; and ladies also are averse to having their hair wetted, from the difficulty they experience in drying it. To such persons we recommend the use of an oil- skin bathing-cap, which will prevent the water from reaching the haii-, and yet impart to the head a sufficient degree of cold to produce the shock and the consequent reaction. To those ladies, howevei-, who complain of the difficulty of drying their hair, we will indicate the means employed in India under the same circum- stances by persons of their own sex. The lady reclines upon a sofa, over one of the arms of which the hair is allowed to fall loosely. Under it is a chafing-dish containing a little ignited charcoal, upon which is thrown some pulverised gum benzoin. The srnoke that arises is allowed