RIG RIO [ 397 ] should require more water it must be added, as some rice swells more than another. RICE CAKE. Take 6 ozs. of ground rice, C ozs. of flour, f lb. of fine sugar sifted, and nine eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately; mix all well together, grate in the rind of a lemon, and bake it well half an hour. RICE CHEESE. Boil 1 oz. of rice as thick as hasty pudding in rather less than half a pint of milk (new); pour it hot on 1^ oz. of butter and the same weight of Lisbon sugar, mixing all well together; let it stand till* cold, then add one whole egg and the yolk of another, and a little white wine. RICE CHEESECAKES. Boil J lb. of rice in three quarts of milk till tender; then put in four eggs well beaten, ^ lb. of butter, half a pint of cream, 6 ozs. of sugar, and a little rose water, with a little grated nutmeg and powdered cinnamon; beat the whole together, put it into crusts raised for the purpose, and bake them on tins. Some currants and brandy may be added. RICE CREAM. Mix some rice flour with half a glass of cold milk, then by degrees add a pint more, also cold, and put it with a bay leaf into a saucepan; set it on a slow fire for an hour and a half, then strain and flavour it with orange-flower water, sweeten to your taste, and serve it hot. It should be stirred frequently whilst boiling. Eggs may be added if you think proper. RICE, CROQUETTES OF. Wash and scald i lb. of rice, put it into a saucepan, with the rind of a lemon shred small, J lb. of pow- der sugar, a pinch of salt, a little crisped orange flower, 1 oz. of butter, and half a pint of milk; set these on the fire, and when the rice is quite soft add the yolks of four eggs ; stir them in over the fire, but do not let them boil; pour the preparation on a large tin or slab, spread it equally, let it cool, and then divide it into small equal parts; roll these into balls, dip them into an omelet, and then into bread crumbs, and fry them in a very hot pan. As soon as the croquettes are of a nice colour drain, sprinkle them with powder sugar, and serve them. RICE, CURRIED. Fry some onions a good brown, and stew them in water or stock; strain and rub them through a cullender, return them into the soup, and add a sufiicient quantity of curry powder: let it boil and incorporate. Have no more than will boil the rice, and be certain it boils when the rice is put in. Cook the rice without stirring, adding lemon acid and salt. Serve it with roasted or grilled meats, poultry, or fish. If water is used it will require a large piece of butter, or top-pot, which ought to be put in as it softens. RICE CUSTARD PUDDING. Boil two spoonsful of rice flour in a quart of milk, sea- son with a few bitter almonds, sugar, and salt, or with lemon juice and zest; add the yolks of four eggs, and stir it over the fire till it thickens. Sheet a dish, bake, and sift sugar over; or boil it in a basin or cup, turn it out, and serve hot or cold, with a cream or caudle sauce. If made of ground rice and rasped bitter almonds, it will taste as if made of bitter almonds altogether. RICE CUSTARDS WITHOUT CREAM. One tea-spoonful of rice flour, one pint of new milk, the yolks of three eggs, a table-spoonful of ratafia (or two or three laurel leaves boiled in), and sugar to your taste. Mix the rice till very smooth, and stir it in the eggs with boiling milk until thick. Arrowroot is better than rice. RICE DUMPLINGS. Wash and pick a pint of rice; boil it in water till it is soft; have some apples pared and cored whole, fill the holes with sugar, cover them over with the rice, and tie each one separately in a cloth. Boil them till the apples are done. RICE FLUMMERY. Boil a pint of new milk with a bit of lemon-peel and cinnamon ; then mix just sufiicient rice flour with a little cold milk as will make the whole of a good consistence, sweeten according to taste, and flavour with a little powdered bitter almonds; boil it, taking care not to let it burn, and pour it into a shape or pint basin, taking out the spice. When the flummery is cold turn it into a dish, and serve with cream, milk, or custard all round, or serve with sweet sauce in a boat. RICE FRITTERS. Boil the rice in milk, with some powder sugar, orange-flower water, a pinch of cinnamon powder, and a little butter. When quite soft put to it a basin of yolks of eggs, and pour it into a pan to cool. Make your preparation into balls about the size of an egg, dip them in egg, fry them, sprinkle them with sugar, and serve. RICE GLUE. See Cement, Japanese. RICE, GROUND (1). Stir into ^Ib. of ground rice a pint and a half of new milk; put it into a saucepan, and keep stirring it till it boils ; then add 3 ozs. of melted butter, the same quantity of sugar, half a grated nutmeg, and a spoonful of grated lemon-peel; mix all well, and when cold add the well-beaten yolks of four eggs and the white of one, a glass of ratafia, and half a glass of orange-flower or rose water. Bake it in a dish lined with puff paste for three quarters of an hour. Before serving strew over the top grated loaf sugar. RICE, GROUND (2). Mix till quite smooth a small tea-cupful of ground rice and a quart of milk ; stir over the fire till it boils, and let it boil for three minutes; put it into a basin,