MOR [ 221 ] MOR or less detachment of the skin, under which a turbid fluid is effused. On touching the part a crackling sensation is often perceptible. This arises from generation of air in the cellular membrane. The countenance, in xxrgent cases, assumes a wild, cadaverous appearance. The pulse, too, becomes rapid and irregular. Hic- cup commonly attends, together with cold per- spiration, purging, and delirium. Gangrene may be considered as mortification in its incipient state, sphacelus when it is per- fectly formed, and caries as destroying the bones. Some confine the term gangrene to superficial affection, and spachelus to that of the muscular or more solid parts. Mortification affecting an internal organ may be easily known by the sudden cessation of pain, and the coming on of fever attended with delirium, and cold clammy sweats. The fetid nature of the smell, livid complexion, and insensibility of the parts will prevent this affection, when external, from being confounded with any other. The danger will be in proportion to the im- portance of the organ affected. Mortification of an internal part is generally fatal. When mortification extends to the bone in any of the extremities, so that the muscular parts around it are completely destroyed, ampu- tation is advisable. This is never to be at- tempted until a separation begins to take place, and there is a limit put to the progress of in- flammation. A removal of the dead part from the living should invariably be promoted. It will be necessary to support the system with suitable articles of generous diet, and by the active influence of the other natural means. Simple cordials and corroborants, such as Peruvian bark, will be i'equired. Opiates are also indispensable. In all cases of mortification the black colour of the parts mortified shows the loss of the active and living principle, or of the spirit which supplied health and vigour. If, then, we can by any means supply this spirit, or a similar one, artificially, we shall so far prevent the death of the parts, or, in other words, the mor- tification. Now, we have fortunately for this purpose the powerful agency of wine or spirits, by which we can increase the flow of animal spirits, and the life and activity of all parts of the body. Accordingly, in all cases where mortification shows itself, either in bad fevers, or from acci- dental wounds or bruises, we advise that the patient should have immediately administered, every quarter of an hour, as much wine or strong punch as it may seem advisable in his circum- stances to give, till you force him into a renewed State of life, and banish the mortification. Cases cured. By an accident in a mine two men had their legs dreadfully bruised, so that it was considered impossible to preserve their lives without cutting them off. One of the men consented to have his leg cut off, and the other refused peremptorily. The operation was performed on the first, and the third day after he died of locked jaw, which often happens from wounds. The man who would not part with his leg was soon seized with alarming mortification. The shattered leg became blue, purple, livid, and black; and, as the substance of it began to dissolve, the watery parts bulged out the skin into numerous yellow blisters, as for the most part happens in morti- fication. At the same time his pulse was so low that it could not be felt, bis eyes sunk into their sockets, and his breathing was barely perceptible. In fact, he might have almost been considered as dead, so low were his powers of life reduced. In this apparently hopeless state a glass of port wine was ordered for him every ten minutes; and in the course of two houi-s his pulse had risen, and his eyes became brighter. Before nine hours from the first glass of wine the dying man was actually singing and merry, and but for his shattered leg we verily believe he would have got up to dance, although he was over sixty years of age. As soon as the spirit was found to take effect in this way the quan- tity was gradually diminished to a glass every half-hour, and at last to a glass every two hours. For nearly two weeks this old man lived almost entirely upon the port wine and a little beef tea; the mortification disappeared, the splintered pieces of bone came away through the wounds in his leg, and in two months he was able to walk. A child a year and a half old had a very bad scarlet fever, and showed symptoms of inward mortification by a black mouth and tongue, fetid breath, and a sunk pulse. In all such cases wine is the only anchor of hope. Port wine was procured, and lest it might be too strong the spirit was partly bunied out of it, though we think it would have been better to mix it with water. A tea-spoonful was given at short intervals, till it was evident that the spirit began to affect the little patient, whose eyes became brighter, and his mouth more moist and comfortable. After a few hours he fell asleep, and awakened in a fair state of recovery. We could mention many more instances, and particularly that of an infant a few days old with mortification from a bad thrush, which was cured by wine ; but these we consider to be quite suSicient to prove that tipsyness is a very powerful means of recovery in hopeless states