L 71 ] IND which it for the time increases the power of the stomach at the erpense of subsequent debility, and by inducing us to eat too much. It seems also, like other strong stimulants, to have a more direct tendency to induce the second stage of the disease. Drink. With respect to fluids, water is evidently intended for the proper dilution of our food. As, on the other hand, we have seen the food may be so watery that it too much dilutes the gastric fluid ; so, on the other, it may be so dry that this fluid cannot easily pervade it, and its necessary motions in the progress of diges- tion are effected with difficulty. But these are not the only, nor do they appear, indeed, to be the principal purpose for which we are induced to drink, which seems generally to be to supply the waste of moisture occasioned by the various secreting surfaces, and particularly by the skin, which is the most extensive. Hence everything which promotes perspiration increases thirst. For a similar reason diarrhoea and the operation of a cathartic have the same effect, and it appears from many facts that there is often a rapid absorption of fluid from the stomach. In health, when the various functions are in due proportion, little liquid is required with the food, the inhalation by one set of vessels nearly compensating for the exhalation by others. Thus it is that the most healthy are little troubled with thirst. In indigestion we have seen it is a frequent symptom. It seems some- times to arise from a general failure of the secretions of the alimentary canal from the mouth downwards, but more frequently from irrita- tion of the stomach, excited by the undigested food; for there is a false thirst as well as a false appetite. As that irritation frequently induces the patient to eat when there are no fluids in the stomach adapted to the office of digestion, it excites him to drink when there is no want of fluidity in the various juices of the body, and when, so far from there being a want of liquid in the stomach, it is surcharged with vitiated fluids. The drink, under such circumstances, only giving relief in proportion as it dilutes the irritating matter, the thirst returns as soon as its irritating properties again increase by its continued fermentation, or perhaps merely as soon as the stomach has become accustomed to the degree of relief which the last draught pro- cured. In this way dyspeptics often drink vast quantities, greatly distending the stomach and increasing their disease. There is some difference of opinion respect- ing the propriety of drinking at meals. It is evident, from what has been said, that the necessity of drinking must be different under different circumstances, but in general it is best shown by the degree of thirst; and there cannot, perhaps, be a more erroneous idea than that which induces some people to drink during their meals for the purpose, as they say, of assisting digestion, when they feel no desire for it. Drinking water can in no other way assist digestion than by affording the proper degree of moisture to the food. If there be no thirst we may be assured that it already possesses this degree of moisture, and that any addition to it will only dilute the gastric fluid, and conse quently enfeeble its solvent power. Eating too fast often causes thirst: the food being swallowed without a due admixture of saliva, the mass formed in the stomach is too dry. It is almost unnecessary to observe that the liquid taken after food must but imperfectly answer the purposes of that mixed with it during mastica- tion. The best rules which a dyspeptic can follow are not to yield to every slight sensation of thirst, and when the sensation is considerable to take but a moderate quantity, and that deliberately; for it is with drinking as with eating, if he swallow with too great rapidity he will take too much. INDIGO is manufactured from a plant called Indigo/era tinctoria. It is not soluble in water, but is dissolved without injury by oil of vitriol (sulphuric acid), and is thus rendered useful in dyeing, staining, and making blue ink. Dis- solved in this acid it is called liquid blue. INFANCY. See Children. INFANT'S PRESERVATIVE, ATKIN- SON'S. Carbonate of magnesia, 6 drachms ; white sugar, S2 ozs.; oil of aniseed, 20 drops ; spirit of sal volatile, drachms ; laudanum, I drachm; syrup of saffron, 1 oz.; and enough caraway water to make a pint. INFECTION. See Contagion- INFLAMMATION. {See Abscess, Brain, Breast, Eye, &c.) By the term " inflammation " is generally understood the state of a part in which it is painful, hotter, redder, and some- what more turgid than it naturally is, which topical symptoms, when present in any con- siderable degree, or when they affect very sen- sible parts, are attended with fever or a general diseased action of the system. According to the late John Hunter the sus- ceptibility of the human body for inflammation is of two kinds; the one original, constituting a part of the animal economy, and beyond the reach of human investigation; the other acquired, from the influence of climate, habits of life, and the state of mind over the constitution. And, as the first kind of susceptibility is innate, it cannot be diminished by art; but the second