ICE ICE [ 60 ] small; mix with the chopped peaches siifScieut powdered loaf sugar to make them very sweet, and then mash them to a smooth jam with a small spoon. Measure the peach jam, and allow to each quart a pint of cream and a pint of rich unskimmed milk. Mix the whole well together, and put it into the freezer, adding, when the mixture is about half frozen, the milk in which you boiled the kernels, which will greatly improve the peach flavour. When well frozen turn out the cream, and serve it in a glass bowl. If you wish to have it in a shape transfer it to a mould, and give it a second freezing. Before you turn it out wash the out- side of the mould all over with cold water, or wrap a wet cloth round it; then open it, and the ice cream will come out easily. ICE CUSTARD WITH VANILLA. Boil three pints of rice milk with as much vanilla as will give it a good flavour, and sweeten it to your taste. Have ready four eggs beaten well, pour the boiling milk on them, and keep stirring till cool, when put it to freeze. ICE MOULDS. Sarbotieres, or moulds for cream or fruit ices, are made of two sorts of materials, block tin and pewter. Of these the latter is the best, the substance to be iced con- gealing more gradually in it thau in the former, an object much to be desired, as, when the ice is formed too quickly, it is very apt to be rough and full of lumps like hail, especially if it be not well worked with the spatula. The other utensils necessary for this operation are a deep pail, with a cork at the bottom, and a wooden spatula about nine inches long. Being so far provided, fill the pail with pounded ice, over which spread four handsful of salt; then having filled the sarbotiere or mould with cream, &c,, put on the cover, and immerse it in the centre of the ice pail. Take care the ice touches the mould in all parts, throw in two more handsful of salt, and leave it a quarter of an hour ; then take the cover from the mould, and with the spatula stir the contents up together, so that those parts which touch the sides of the mould, and consequently congeal first, may be mixed with the liquid in the middle; work this about for seven or eight minutes, cover the mould, take the pail by the handles, and shake it round and round for a quarter of an hour; open the mould a second time, and stir as before. Continue these operations altei'nately until the cream, or whatever it may be, is entirely congealed, perfectly smooth, and free from lumps. Take care to let out the water, which will collect at the bottom of the pail, by means of the cork, and press the ice close to the sarbotiere with the spatula. When the cream is iced take it from the pail, dip the mould in warm water, but do not let it remain in an instant; dry it quickly, turn it out, and serve it as soon as possible. All sorts of ices are finished in this manner. The preparation of the articles of wliich they are composed constitutes the only difference between them. ICED GRAPES. Take large, close bunches of fine, ripe, thin-skinned grapes, remove any that are imperfect, and tie a string in a loop to the top of the stems. Strain into a deep dish a sufficient quantity of white of egg, and dip the bunches of grapes into it, immersing them thoroughly; then drain them, and roll them about in a flat dish of finely powdered loaf sugar till they are completely coated with it, using the fingers to spread the sugar into the hollows between the grapes. Hang up the bunches by the strings till the icing is entirely dry. They should be dried in a warm place. Send them to the supper table at a party on glass dishes. ICED JELLY. Make calfs-foot jelly in the usual way, then put it into a freezer, and freeze it as you would ice cream. Serve it up in a glass bowl or in jelly glasses. You cannot mould it this way; but the taste of jelly when broken up is much more lively than when moulded: it also sparkles and looks more handsome. ICELAND MOSS (Cetmria Mandica). Soak 2 ozs. of moss in boiling water sufficient to cover it for an hour, squeeze out the w^ater from it, and throw it away. Boil the moss in three pints of water until reduced to two pints, and strain the liquor, which when cold becomes a jelly. Fla- voured with a little white wine and sugar it is a. pleasant diet, recommended to be taken in chronic coughs, dysentery, dyspepsia, and when a patient has symptoms of consumption. ICES : To Stain. Mash and strain some ri];>e pokeberries, to each pint of juice put 1 lb. of sugar, and boil them together till they become a jelly. When cold put it in a jar, and tie it tigiuly. Use a small quantity of this to stain ice cream or jelly. ICES, BROWN BREAD. Take one pint of cream, and sweeten it with thick syrup, a little grated nutmeg, and a glass of jelly. Have ready some very fine bread crumbs made fi'om brown bread four days old, and sprinkle them by degrees into the cream. When about half frozen add jelly if you have it. ICES,'COCHINEAL COLOURING EOR. Take 1 oz. of cochineal, and put it iu a pint of water, with 1 oz. of roche alum and 1 oz. of cream of tartar. When all are boiled add I oz. of salts of wormwood, the juice of three lemons, and three gills of spirits of wine. Bottle it tightly. ICES, CURRANT. Put one large spoon- ful and a half of currant jelly into a basin with half a gill of syrup, squeeze iu one lemon and a half, add a pint of cream and a little cochineal,