0 VE OX [ 283 ] ten inches by fifteen. It opens over a sbelf paved with foot tiles, and in front of it is a space, shown at fig. 2, wliere ch marls the breast chimnej-, supported by an arch : it may act independently, or pass into any other chimney, as the case may be. So far the description applies to an oven heated by wood, where the fuel is put in at the door, the flame playing over the internal arch, or crown, and passing out from the same into the chimney, as at ch, fig. 2. Experience must determine the due action of the fire upon the oven, every brick of which ought to be made so hot as to burn off the smoke of the wood. Fig. 3 exhibits the floor and sides of the oven, but with the addition of a furnace for burning coals in lieu of wood g. It is seen in the cut that the bars and door are placed at a right angle with the oven. The flame of the coal plays through the neck n (about six inches square in the clear), and passes in a direction to- ward the back, round which and the crown it circulates, passing out of the front opening to the breast chimney. No Fic.s alteration is required in the structure ; but if coal is employed the oven's mouth must be furnished with a thin plate of iron called a blower, hi. figs. 2 and 8. This plate is made to fit to, and to close the entire opening, excepting a space of four inches at top, formed by folding back its edges to that extent, which thus rest against the cheeks of the brickwork. When the oven is sufficiently heated by the coal the blower is to be taken down, the opening of the neck n closed by a plate of iron, so contrived as to be suspended by a hook or two, built into the side under the crown, and the bread, &c., being introduced, the oven door is to be closed. Two or three remarks remain to be made. The furnace for coal may point to the front, or in any convenient direction, provided it deliver its flame by the neck, in the way laid down in the plan. The plate which closes the neck must be introduced at the front; therefore its means of support or suspension should be so contrived as to admit of its being fixed securely, with the least trouble or loss of time possible. Good sound briciis are the best materials for ovens, and a near calculation of the number required may be made by applying the well- known rule—100 bricks will build a square yard of nine-inch icork—to the dimensions given in our plan : these are on the scale of a quarter of au inch to the foot. Be veiy careful to keep your oven clean, and that there are no remains of sugar or fat that may have run over from anything that has been baking. Puff paste requires a moderately hot oven, but not too hot, or it will spoil the shape and turn it over. Tart paste or short crust requires a slower oven; petits choux, one still slower; but for raised pies let it be as hot as for puff paste at first, and well closed, so that the pies may not fall; therefore, when you give a dinner where paste is necessary, endeavour to make it in the morning. Heat your oven for the puff paste, which must be baked the first; then let the oven go gi'adually down, and bake your pastes in rotation as the heat falls. Savoy biscuits require a cool oven, and by degrees raise the heat as the biscuits are baking. For souffles, or light pmddings, have a gentle oven, and contrive so as to have them ready by the time they are wanted, or they will fall. The greatest attention should also be paid in heating the oven for baking cakes, particularly for those that are large. If not pretty quick the batter will not rise. Should you fear ifs catching by being too quick, put paper over the cake to prevent its being burnt. If not long enough lighted to have a body of heat, or if it has become slack, the cake will be heavy. To know when it is soaked take a broad-bladed knife that is very bright, and plunge it into the centre; draw it instantly out, and if the least stickiness adheres put in the cake immediately, and shut the oven. If the heat w'as sufficient to raise, but not to soak the cake, fresh fuel must be quickly put in, and the cake kept hot until the oven is fit to finish the soaking; but this must only be done in a case of great emergency, and those who are employed ought to be particularly careful that no mistake occur from negligence. For further directions see Bre.u) : HeatiiiQ the oven. OX CHEEK, BOILED (1). Bone and thoi'oughly cleanse an ox cheek, and let it steep in white wine for twelve hours ; then season it with salt, pepper, nutmeg, cloves, and mace; roll it up, tie it tightly with tape, boil it in water, salt, and vinegar till it is very tender, press it hard, and wben quite cold cut it into slices, and serve with oil and vinegar. OX CHEEK, BOILED (2). Wash very clean half a head, let it lie in cold water all night, and break the bone in two, taking care not to bi'eak the flesh. Put it on the fire in a pot of boiling water, and let it boil for two or three hours. Take out the bone, and serve it with boiled carrots and turnips, or savoys. The liquor that the head has been boiled in may be strained, and made into Scotch barley broth or Scotch kail.