[ 292 ] PAL PAI perliapg, wliich that substance, as prodaced by the combustion of oily matters, contains of un- decomposed fatty matter not endued with drying properties. Paints should be mixed in brown pots, having smooth, round bottoms inside, in some parts of the country ca.\]ed porringers; and strong, blunt, flat knives, of the size of oyster- knives, rounded at the ends to correspond with the hollow form of the interior of the mixing pots, will be found the best. The pots, knives, and every other material coming near the paint, should be scrupulously kept free from common grease ; and, on the same principle, the surface on which it is intended to apply the paint, when mixed for use, should be perfectly free from greasiness, either by being new, or by being otherwise cleansed with an accurate washing of hot water with soda in it. When dead-painting is employed, that is, paint containing very little of the nature of varnish, but a large quantity of turpentine, which all evaporates again from the paint, and thus leaves it dull and earthy in its aspect, the rooms are commonly kept closed for a short time, to prevent the uneven and too rapid action of such drying. All paints for use should be as thick as the best cream. Black Paint. Lampblack ground up with oil on a slab. This paint requires much aid of turpentine, dryer, and resin varnish to set it, and cause it to dry. Blue Paint. Mix first a white according to the directions below, and then colour it by means of Prussian blue, ground on a slab with a rauller and linseed oil, to the intensity of blue colour required, according to fancy. Fawn Colour. White with brown or chocolate. Green Paint. First mix a yellow of any of the different shades, and change it into a light or dark, yellow or blue green, by stirring into it the due quantity of ground Prussian blue. Lead Colour. First mix a white, and give it the proper tint by stirring in by degrees the required quantity of the ground lampblack. EosE Colour. White coloured with the red. Stone Colour. White paint tinged with the proper quantity of yellow. White Paint. This is the heaviest of the paints, and, from its metallic nature, dries well. First mix in the pot the stiff ground white-lead, with a Jittle spirit of turpentine, into a smooth, uniform cream, adding raw linseed oil, and as much more turpentine as the purpose the paint is intended for may require; finally, tinge it with a little ground Prussian blue, to remove any yellowness, and, if wanted to set very quickly, mix in a little sugar of lead in fine powder. For a stronger common white use the white- lead and whiting, or " common white-lead," as it is called, employing less turpentine, and equal quantities of raw and boiled oil, adding sugar of lead and blue as before. The first mixture gives a dead paint; the second, one of more varnish, body, and gloss, which will allow of being scoured and rubbed when required. Yellow, Brown, Chocolate, Venetian Red, or Mahogany Paint. All these colours are modifications of the same ferruginous principle, and these several paints arc prepared from chalky mineral ochres, found in nature under various shades of colour: they may be bought at the shops iu their stiff, ground state. For these little or no turpentine will be required, unless for fine indoor work : boiled oil, or boiled and raw in equal proportions, may be used; and, instead of sugar of lead, common litharge, being much cheaper, may be used in fine powder. From the simple colours other tints and shades may be obtained: thus yellow and red mixed together will give an orange; blue and red a purple; yellow, red, and black, a brown, and so on. There are other more expensive colours, which we do not dwell on—such as the chrome and patent yellow, copper greens, &c.—because the cheaper ones we have given will answer every purpose for simple economical painting; and the mixtm-e of red-lead with linseed oil, for ploughs and out- door implements, and the black varnish, which is a solution of resin in turpentine, coloured with black paint, applied to the ironwork, are both too well known and extensively employed to require further comment. PALATES. See Ox Palates. PALMER CAKES. Sift 1 lb. of flour into a pan, and rub it into \ lb. of butter and \ lb. of powdered loaf sugar ; add a tea-spoonful of mixed spice, powdered cinnamon, nutmeg, and mace; wet the mixture with two well-beaten eggs, the juice of a large lemon or orange, and sufficient rose water to make it into a dough just stiff enough to roll out easily; sprinkle a little flour on the paste board, lay the lump of dough upon it, roll it out rather thin, and cut it into round cakes with the edge of a tumbler, dipped every time iu flour to prevent stickiness. Lay the cakes in buttered square pans, set them in rather a brisk oven, and bake them brown. PALPITATION. See Heart, Palpitatioi? OF. PALSY. This disease may arise in con sequence of an apoplectic attack; like which, also, it may be occasioned by everything that prevents the flow of the nervous power from the brain into the organs of motion. It may also be caused by injuries done to the spinal marrow, from blows, bruises, wounds, fractures, disloca- ■ tions, pressure on the nerves, poisonous fumes from minerals, and by whatever tends to ener- vate the system, &c. It usually comes on