C 39 ] HER HER ruptures usually happen ought carefully to be examined. The protrusion of a very small part of the bowel will occasion all these symptoms, and if not returned in due time will prove fatal. On the first appearance of a rupture in an infant it ought to be laid upon its back, with its head very low. While in this posture, if the bowel does not return of itself, it may easily be put up by gentle pressure. After it is returned a piece of sticking-plaster may be applied over the part, and a proper truss or bandage must be constantly worn for a considerable time. The method of making and applying rupture band- ages for children is pretty well known. The child must, as far as possible, be kept from crying, and from all violent exertions, till the rupture is quite cured. In adults, when the bowel has been forced down with great violence, or happens from any cause to be inflamed, there is often great diffi- culty in returning it, and sometimes the thing is quite impracticable without an operation, a description of which is foreign to our purpose. The attempt to return the bowel must be thus conducted :—After the patient has been bled he must be laid upon his back, with his head very low, and his breech raised high with pillows. In this situation flannel cloths wrung out of a decoction of mallows and camomile flowers, or, if these are not at hand, warm water must be applied for a considerable time. A clyster made of this decoction, with a large spoonful of butter and an ounce or two of salt, may be afterwards thrown up. If these should not pi'ove successful recourse must be had to pres- sure. If the tumour be very hard considerable force will be necessary ; but it is not force alone which succeeds here. The operator, at the same time that he makes a pressure with the palma of his hands, must with his fingers artfully conduct the bowel in by the same aperture through which it came out. The manner of doing this can be much more easily con- ceived than described. Should these en- deavours prove ineffectual, clysters of the smoke of tobacco may be tried. These have often been known to succeed where every other method failed. There is reason to believe that, by persisting in the use of these and such other means as the circumstances of the case may suggest, most hernias might be reduced without an operation. Operating for the hernia is a nice and diflScult matter, therefore try every method of returning the gut before having recourse to the knife. When a patient complains of pain in the belly, with obstinate costiveness, examine the groins, and every place where a rupture may happen, in order that it may be immediately reduced. By neglecting this many perish who were not suspected to have had ruptures till after they were dead. An adult, after the bowel has been returned, must wear a proper truss. It is needless to describe this, as it may always be had ready made from the manufacturers. Such bandages are generally uneasy to the wearer for some time, but by custom they become quite easy. No person who has had a rupture after he arrived at man's estate should ever be without one of these bandages. Persons who have a rupture ought carefully to avoid all violent exercise, carrying great weights, leaping, running, and the like. They should likewise avoid windy aliment and strong liquors, and should cai'efully guard against catching cold. HERON: To Roast. When the heron is picked parboil it, and lard the breast and back; roast it, basting with white wine and butter beaten together, and strew over it bread crumbs mixed with sweet herbs shred small. Beat up some yolks of eggs with a little claret and vinegar, and some chopped anchovies. When roasted serve it, garnished with rosemary leaves, and orange and lemon sliced. HERON PIE. Break the breast bone, and lay the bird in soak for an hour in warm water and salt. Shred some onions and sweet herbs very finely, and make them into balls with a little butter; add pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace in powder. Put some of these into the heron, lard the breast, and lay bacon on the wings ; make a raised crust, in which place the bird, with the remainder of the balls round it: squeeze in some lemon juice, cover the pie, and bake it. When done raise the top, pour in a little gravy, and let it stand till cold. HERRING FILLETS. Cut out the fillets of fresh or salt herrings, and if too salt lay thein in milk and water for some hours, and wipe them. Have a strong paper case or two ready, strew in nicely minced onions and a very little garlic, seasoned with pepper and a bit of butter; lay in the fillets, strew onions over them, and put in bits of butter; set them over the fire, cook them slowly, and serve them hot in the cases. HERRING PIE. Scale and clean the herrings; cut off the heads, fins, and tails ; lay a crust at the bottom of a dish, strew over it mace, pepper, and salt (all pounded); put in a little butter, lay in some of the herrings, season them, then put a layer of apples and onions sliced thinly, and then herrings again ; add some water and a little more butter, cover the pie, and bake it well. HERRING ROES EN CAISSES. Scald and drain the roes of twenty or thirty fresh herrings, and give them a few turns over the fire with a little butter, sweet herbs, mush- rooms, salt, and pepper, but do not let them