I 106 J "KLO On one sicte of fhis liot plate is the boiler, heated by a flue from the fire; the same flue is carried on to the roaster, which resembles an oven (except in having valves to admit currents of aix), by which contrivance the meat is made as brown as if it were roasted before a blazing fire: these currents of air also prevent the meat thus cooked from having the taste of the oven. When the valves are closed the roaster may be used as an oven. Above the roaster is a closet heated by the same flue, and in this baking may proceed when the roaster is othenvise employed. This is the desci-iption of one side of the fire; on the other there is a steam apparatus, supplied with steam from the boiler. This is admirably cal- culated for making soups, boiling meat, hams, and poultry. Potatoes may also be boiled well by steam ; but green vegetables are better boiled in water, the colour being injured by the steam; and this is the reason why vegetables always look better when boiled in pump water. Alter serving this apparatus the steam is carried on to heat another cast-iron plate, or table, upon which the cook is to dish her dinner, and which enables her to send it up with little or no diminution of heat. A dinner is spoiled if it be sent up chilled, which evil this hot table cannot but avert; and therefore it must excite the admiration, and even gratitude of all the lovers of the table. Beneath this plate is another hot closet, furnished with shelves, where such dishes may be kept hot as are not to be sent imme- diately to table. There are two or three particulars relative to the kitchen which require attention, and are preventives of much inconvenience. Have it well ventilated. Have a dial in it agreeing exactly with that in the hall. Have its chimney freauently swept. itLOES DE BERLIN. Melt i lb. of butter until it rises, then mix with it by degrees the yolks of six eggs and four whites, some salt, pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and three glasses of milk; add sufficient flour to form a paste, dip a spoon into hot water, and take up enough of this paste to make balls of a middling size ; throw them into boiling water, and leave them eight or ten minutes ; then take them out of the water with a skimmer, dress them on a dish garnished with fried potatoes, and serve them with a sauce of bread crumbs browned in Lutter. KLUSKIS WITH CURIAM dHEESE. Mix I- lb. of butter, six eggs, six large spoonsful of cream cheese, nutmeg, salt, sugar, crumb of bread, and some cream, and make into balls with flour; boil tliera in salt and water, drain them, brash them over with browned butter, and serve. KLUSKIS OF FRIED MEAT. Chop up finely the lean of fresh pork, and mix with it some bread soaked in wine and drained, some lemon-peel, salt, and pepper. Of these make some small, flattened balls, which cover with bread crumbs, and fry. KLUSKIS OF PASTE PELLETS. Male a rather thick paste of flour, hot water, eggs (a little warmed), some yeast, salt, and sugar; put it in a hot place to make it rise, and with the fingers break off some pieces to make into pellets, which also leave to rise; then boil them in salt and water, brush them over with browned butter, and serve. KNEE-CAP SLIPPING. See Dislocation OF Patella. KNIFE BOARD. It should consist of m inch deal board five feet long, with a hole about an inch in diameter at one end, by which it is to be hung up in some convenient nook in a back kitchen out of the way when not in use. At the same end, i.e., at the left hand, and close to the front edge, is to be fastened a stiff brush, like one that is used for shoes, for the purpose of cleaning the forks between the prongs—a tedious process, and therefore frequently slighted. At the other end there is fastened a box, with the end open towards the hands, and a sliding lid. This box is the width of the board, and, of course, larger than a Bath brick; and in it are deposited the said iadispensable Bath brick, with sundry leathers for forks and " coppers," and into which an occasional pair of soft old gloves is thrown, to save the unnecessaiy blackening of the servant's hands while she is employed in cleaning the warming-pan, &c. These sundries are all shut in, and hung up with the board, and thus is neatness in this department well pre- served. KNIFE CLEANER. {See Footman.) This apparatus is no less simple than efficacious. Take two pieces of wood, shaped as in the woodcut, seven inches long each, allowing three inches and a haK for the length of the handles, three inches broad, and one inch thick. Get a piece of thick leather, as a, and glue it down to the two boards in such a way as to leave a space between them, to act as a hinge. Cover this leather with a solution of sour ale, or water thickly mixed with coarsish emery powder; let it dry, and the apparatus is fit for use. Close the two boards together, so as to have the leather between them; place the knife on the under one, and, pressing vdth. the left hand on the