[ 229 ] MUT MUS if the patient be troubled with piles, it will be advisable to relieve the bowels occasionally with a small tea-spoonful of milk of sulphur, aud an equal quantity of magnesia, mixed together in a little millv or water, taken at bedtime, either with or after the last dose of the seed. " In palsy, asthma, ague, diseases of the liver, rheumatism, and worms, the seed should be taken somewhat more freely than in other cases, and, in instances of long standing and great obstinacy, to the extent of four or five large table-spoonsful in the course of each day, if the bowels will bear that quantity without much inconvenience; and in these, as in other cases, the patient must have recourse to Epsom salts or any other mild aperient, or to the mixture of sulphur and magnesia if necessary. When the seed is taken as a preventive by persons of consumptive and delicate habits, or otherwise coustitutionally susceptible of cold, or by others for the purpose of preventing the recurrence of disease of any kind, or as a remedy for costive- ness or any slight attack of disease, a single dose taken every day about an hour before breakfast, or, which is generally to be preferred, about an hour after dinner, will very frequently accomplish the proposed object, provided it be sufficient in quantity to keep the bowels in a uniformly open and comfortable state. " A steady daily perseverance in the use of the mustard seed, according to the rules above recommended, for the space of two, three, or four months, and in many instances for a much shorter period, will seldom fail to convince the patient of the extraordinary efficacy and singular value of this very safe, cheap, and simple medicine." MUSTAED WHEY. Take of the best white mustard seed 3 ozs., and boil it gently in three pints of water till reduced to one; then add one pint of skim milk, and this produces the whey. Strain it through a sieve to separate the whey from the curd, and take a tea-cupful lukewarm night and morning. This is a most desirable way of administering mustard; it ■warms and invigorates the system, promotes the different secretions, and in the low state of nei"vous fevers will often supply the place of wine. It is also of use in chronic rheumatism, asthma, palsy, and dropsy. MUSTINESS. This smell and flavour arise from a minutfe fungus, whether in flour, beer casks, or elsewhere. It can only be removed from casks by having not merely their inside, but the edges of the staves charred. Flour may have mustiness removed from it by mixing a tea-spoonful of carbonate of magnesia with every half-peck previously to preparing it for the oven or pot, whether as bread or as pie or pudding crust. MUTTON. The best and most nutritious mutton is that of sheep which are at least three, but not more than six years old, and which have been reared on dry, sweet pastures. The meat afforded by such as have been fed on salt marshes, or near the seacoast, is likewise sweet and wholesome, for it acquires both firmness and a fine flavour from the saline particles abounding in such situations. The flesh of ewes, and especially of wethers that have not been kept above the age already stated, is of a rich and invigorating nature, while that of rams is not only tough and coarse, but also has a strong, unpleasant taste. Young meat abounds with sweet juices, and is easy of digestion, though, if under three years of age, it seldom attains its peculiar relish, and is generally somewhat ropy. In choosing mutton regard must be had not to select it too large nor too fat, but thick, fine grained, and well coloured. That which is sold in the markets is often little else than lamb overgrown, w-hich, having attained its size, is sold to save another year's keep; and as to its being known by the port-wine gravy it is absurd, as, if the meat is little done, so will be the gravy. Mountain mutton is diff'erent, because the farmer can clear a profit by the wool, so that the sheep are allowed to attain a riper age. Ewe mutton, in spite of all that is said against it, if it can be kept long enough to tender the muscle, is often so much higher flavoured from age as to be taken for venison. By some mutton is not considered to be in per- fection till it is nearly or quite five j'ears old. In marketing pinch the flesh, and if it feels tender and elastic it is young ; but if it wrinkles, and continues so, it is a sign of its being old. The fat of young mutton will easily separate from the lean, but not so when old; besides which the one will be firm in consistence, and the other clammy and fibrous. The fat of ram mutton is particularly stringy, the grain of the meat is close, and of a deep red colour, and when pressed with the finger it will not rise again. The flesh of a sheep that has had the rot will be pale ; the fat of a deadly white, in- clining to a yellowish colour ; the lean will be loose at the bone, and upon being squeezed will exude a watery appearance on the surface. Ob- serve also that wether mutton is the better for age, and that the flesh of the ewe is to be dis- tinguished from every other by the peculiar delicacy of its texture and the paleness of its colour. When mutton comes in from the butcher take out the kei-nel from the leg, and the spinal man'ow, which last must be instantly cooked in butter, and preserved for use. Do not touch any part of it with salt, even if spoiled. The best preserver is acid, and in some cases pepper