h;ys HYS I 58 ] could not bear tlie sight of it. This also effectually checked his appetite for food, and for a time there was almost a total cessation of the irritability of temper and paroxysms of agitation till he got back to excesses of the table. In fine, it is impossible to enumerate the thousand ways in which different people are affected in their tempers and dispositions from tbis morbid sensibility of the nerves, and that without any material feeling of discomfort in •the very parts where the morbid sensibility exists. They cannot, therefore, point out the causes of their wretched feeling, nor can their medical attendant often detect it. Their com- plaints are considered imaginary, and pass un- pitied; and the unliappy victim of a real physical malady, which preys on his vitals, is thus set down as a hypochondriac, and so bantered and ridiculed by his friends that the world is to him a purgatory, from which he has little regret in parting. The medical and physical treatment directed for Dyspepsia is quite applicable to hypo- chondria. HYSSOP {Hyssopus officinalis) is a native of the south of Europe and the East. It has a strong, aromatic odour, and a warm, pungent taste. The leaves and young shoots are occa- sionally used as a pot herb, and the leaves and flowering tops are dried for medicinal purposes. Hyssop is a gently stimulant aromatic, and its infusion is employed in chronic catarrhs and disorders of the breast and lungs. Its virtues depend on an essential oil, which is obtained by distillation, and which is sometimes employed instead of the plant. It was long supposed that this was the hyssop of Scripture; but it has now been very satisfactorily shown that the plant there mentioned is Capparis spinosa, or the caper. HYSTERICS. This complaint, also called the hysteric passion, appears under various shapes, and is frequently owing to a lax, tender habit, obstructions, &c. In the fit the patient is seized with an oppression at the breast and difficult respiration, accompanied with a sense of something like a ball ascending into the throat, which puts her under great apprehen- sions of being suffocated. There is a loss of speech, and generally violent convulsive motions. These, with a train of hj^pochondriac symptoms, are sufficient to determine tbe disease, to which may be added frequent laughing or crying, and various wild irregular actions, after which a general soreness is felt all over the body, the spirits are low, the feet are cold, the urine is clear and limpid, and discharged in great quantity. The hysteric fit may be easily dis- tinguished from fainting, for in this the pulse and respiration are entirely stopped; in that they are both perceivable. Nothing recovers a person sooner from the hysteric fit than putting the feet and legs in warm water. When low spirits proceed from a suppression of the piles, &c., these evacuations must be encouraged, or repeated bleeding sub- stituted. When they take their origin from long - continued giief, anxious thoughts, and other distresses of mind, nothing has done more service in those cases than agreeable company, daily exercise, and especially long journeys and a variety of amusements. Light animal food, red wine, cheerful com- pany, and a good clear air, with moderate exercise, are of great importance in this dis- order. Drinking tea and such-like tepid re- laxing fluids should by no means be indulged in, though tea is far from being so bad as it has been supposed. The cure consists in what- ever tends to strengthen the solids and the whole habit in general, and nothing will effect this more certainly than a long-continued use of the chalybeate waters and riding on horseback. Anti-hysteric spirits. Take of proof spirit 1 pint; sal ammoniac, 2 ozs. ; asafcetida, 0 drachms; potash, 5 ozs. Mix, and draw off by distillation 1 pint with a slow fire. The spirit is pale when newly distilled, but acquires a considerable tinge by keeping. The dose is a tea-spoonful in some water during the hysterics, and the same to be taken occasionally. Anti-hysteric pills. Take of the compound pills of galbanum 2 drachms; rust of iron, 4 scruples; and as much syrup of ginger as is sufficient to form a mass, which is to be made into forty pills, of which take four at noon and seven in the morning every day, drinldug after them half a glass of port wine. These pills are excellent in hysteric complaints. The fetid injection is made by adding to the ingredients of the common clyster two drachms of the tincture of asafcetida. In cases of hysterics and convulsions the fetid injection is of singular service. Opiate draught. Mix together cinnamon water, 1 oz.; spirit of caraway, ^ oz.; sulphuric ether and tincture of castor, of each ^ drachm. Let this draught be taken every six houi'S if the stomach should be affected by cramp. If the feet are cold, bottles filled with hot water should be applied to them. Tonic for debility in females. Take of soft extract of bark 2 drachms; calumba and rust of iron, of each 1 drachm ; and as much simple syrup as is sufficient. Make into fifty pills, take two, and gradually increase to five, three times a day. Compound galbanum pills. Take of galbanum, opoponax, myrrh, and sagapenum, of each 1 oz.;