[ 207 ] MIL MIG heart with forcemeat, bake it with little water in the dish, lay some butter over it, and dredge it with flour. Next boil half the liver and all the lights for half an hour; then chop them small, and put them in a tossing pan, with a pint of gravy, a spoonful of lemon pickle, and the same of catsup ; squeeze in half a lemon, and add also some pepper and salt; thicken the whole with a lump of butter rolled in flour, and when you dish it up lay the minced m.eat at the bottom, and have ready fried the other half of the liver cut in slices, with some pieces of bacon. Set the heart in the middle, lay the liver and bacon over the minced meat, and serve it up. MIGNONETTE. A mignonette consists of long pepper, ginger, cinnamon, cloves, coriander, and mace, tied together in a bit of linen cloth. MILDEW. Calico and other white fabrics are liable to become mildewed if kept for any length of time in a damp, dark place. Merely washing will not remove this stain of the minute fungus which is its cause, but it will be effectually taken away if soaked for a few minutes in a weak solution of chloride of lime. {Sfie Bleaching.) If coloured silks become mildewed we know of no remedy; but the mildew will never occur if they are kept in a dry place, and are occasionally exposed to warmth and light. MILIARY FEVER, or Miltaeta, is a fever accompanied with eruptions resembling millet seed. It is distinguished at its commencement by considerable coldness and rigour, succeeded by great heat, much anxiety, and frequent sighing, followed by profuse perspiration of a strong and peculiar smell, preceded by a sense of pricking, as of pins' points in the skin. The eruption appears sooner or later in different persons, but at no determinate period ; first on the neck and breast, in small red pimples, which, in two days, become white vesicles, desquamate, and are succeeded by fresh pim- ples. It affects both sexes, and persons of all ages and constitutions ; but females of a delicate habit are most liable to it, particularly in child- bed. Very violent symptoms, such as coma, delirium, and convulsions, attend occasionally this fever, in which case it sometimes proves fatal. A profuse eruption indicates more diinger than a scanty one; its being steady ig also a more favourable symptom than its fre- quently disappearing and coming out again ; and it is more favourable when the places covered with the eruption appear swelled and stretched than when they remain flaccid. As this disease is generally accompanied with danger the best medical advice should at once be had. It may, however, be useful to observe that, besides the eruption itself, a peculiar symptom in this complaint is the sweating which aiways precedes and accompanies it. It is not, how- ever, contagious, but is, nevertheless, one con- cerning which, as to its nature, veiy different opinions have been formed. From its arising very often in persons who have been previously Aveakened by large evacuations, particularly of blood, there is good ground for concluding that it is one of those numerous diseases of debility which require stimulants for their cure. Indeed, some writers have treated the slow, nervous, and miliary fever under one head, considering the eruption itself as always a symptomatic and accidental affection. The mode of treatment when a physician is not employed may, there- fore, with propriety be the same as that which we have described under Fevek, Simple Con- tinued. MILK is the nutritious secretion formed in the breasts of all mammals for the nourishment of their young, and is also extensively used as an article of food by the greater part of the human family. The kinds of milk usually employed are those of the cow, the goat, the sheep, the mare, and the ass. In this country, however, that of the mare is rarely, if ever, used ; and, as that of the cow is what is almost universally employed, we shall confine our observations to that alone. Of the milk drawn from any cow at one time that part which comes off at the first is always thinner, and of a much worse quality for making butter than that afterwards obtained ; and this richness continues to increase progressively to the very last drop that can be drawn from the udder. Few persons in the country are ignorant that the milk which is taken from the cow last of all at one milking is richer than the rest of the milk, on which account a distinct name has been given to it in various parts of the country. Thus in some places it is called a fterings, because it is usually obtained, when wanted for sick per- sons or other uses, by remilking the cow after the ordinary milking has been finished. In other places it is termed strokings, because it does not come in so full a stream as in the ordinary course of milking, and it is probably known by other names in other parts of the country. This circumstance sufficiently proves that the difference in its quality has been adverted to, although few, perhaps, are aware of the great disproportion subsisting between the quality of the first and that of the last drawn milk from the same cow at one milking. The following facts respecting this important par- ticular were ascertained many years ago, and have been confirmed by numberless subsequent experiments and observations. Having taken several large tea-cups exactly of the same size and shape, one of them was