GUM GUA C 7 J and then occasionally, to prevent its sticking to the bottom of the saucepan, for three quarters of an hour. It should then be strained through a fine sieve. More or less of the groats may be used in proportion to the thickness desired, but the above is the quantity generally used. Milk Gruel. Take half a tumbler of thick gruel, and the same quantity of new milk, both lukewarm; mix together, and let the patient drink it. This, where the debility is extreme, will sustain the powers of nature when nothing else can be taken. Oatmeal Groel. If it be required thick mix well together by degrees in a pint basin two table-spoonsful of oatmeal with three of cold water; if thin, only one spoonful of oat- meal. Put in a saucepan a pint of boiling water, add this by degrees to the oatmeal, mix as above directed, return it to the saucepan, let it boil five minutes, stirring it all the time to prevent burning, skim, and strain it through a hair sieve. A little wine, sugar, or salt may be added, according to the patient's wish. Plain gruel of this receipt is one of the best breakfasts and suppers that we can recom- mend to the rational epicure, and is the most comfortable soother of an irritable stomach that we know, being particularly acceptable to it after a hard day's work of intemperate feasting, when the addition of i oz. of butter and a tea-spoonful of Epsom salts will give it an aperient quality, which will assist the principal viscera to get rid of their burden. GUAIACUM, or Lignum Vit/k Tree {Guai- acum officinale). The wood of this species is of equal utility in the mechanical arts and in medicine, being so heavy as to sink when immersed in water. It is chiefly employed in the West Indies for the wheels and cogs of sugar-mills, and is also frequently formed into mortars, bowls, and other utensils. The wood, gum, and bark are all employed in medicine, though the first two are chiefly used in Europe. Gum guaiacum is of a fxiable nature, of a deep greenish colour, but sometimes of a reddish hue, and has a pungent acrid taste. There is another spontaneous exudation obtained from the bark of this tree, which is called native gum : it is imported in small, irregular, semi-pellucid pieces, and is much purer than that extracted by incision. The general virtues of guaiacum are those of a warm aromatic medicine ; it strengthens the stomach and other viscera, and greatly promotes the discharges of uiine and perspiration. Hence it is of especial service in cutaneous eruptions, and disorders arising from obstructions of the excretory glands. In rheumatic and other pains unattended with fever the liberal use of gum guaiacum has often afforded considerable relief. It is likewise a good laxative, and furnishes a more active medicine than either the wood or bark of this tree. Gum guaiacum, when dissolved in rum, or combined with water by means of mucilage or the yolk of an egg, or in the form of a tincture or elixir, has been found useful in chronic rheumatism, or even in such wandering pains of the stomach or other parts of the body as could be attributed to the retrocedent gout, in which cases a small table-spoonful of the emulsion may be taken three or four times a day. GUDGEONS : To Choose. Gudgeons are chosen by the same rules as other fish. They are caught in running streams, come in about Midsummer, and remain five or six months. GUDGEONS: To Dress. These fish are most commonly fried. Scale, empty, and wipe them clean without washing them, flour them, and put them into a good friture of lard or butter. GUDGEONS AU COURT BOUILLON. Empty and wash the fish, then boil them in a court bouillon of equal quantities of wine and maigre broth; add salt, pepper, and a few artichoke bottoms. When done I'educe the liquor, and serve them hot. GUDGEONS, STEWED. Scale, empty, and wipe the gudgeons clean without washing them; then take the dish upon which you serve, and put into it some butter, with parsley, green onions, mushrooms, a couple of shallots, thyme, a bay leaf, and basil, all cut finely ; add salt and pepper, place the gudgeons on this, seasoning them over and under, and moistening the whole with a glass of red wine ; cover the dish, and set it over a brisk fire till the sauce is almost consumed. They will not require more than a quarter of an hour to cook. You may dress smelts in the same manner; but they must be neither scaled nor emptied, but only wiped clean. GUINEA FOWLS: To Dress. Guinea fowls have very much the flavour of pheasants, and are cooked in the same manner. GUM ARABIC, or Gum Acacia, is the produce of a tree known as Mimosa Nilotica. Gum arabic exerts no medical action on the living system, but is a simple demulcent, serving to lubricate abraded surfaces, and involve acrid matters in the primm vim. It is scarcely ever given in the solid form, unless to sheath the fauces, and allay the tickling and irritation which occasion the cough in catarrh and pul- monary consumption, in which case a piece of it is allowed to dissolve slowly in the mouth. It is chiefly used in the state of mucilage, which is ordered to be made thus, and is called