HAR HAR When the legs are separated a fine collop will be found on each side of the back; then divide the latter into as many pieces as you think proper, and take off the shoulders, which are commonly called the sportsman's pieces, and with many obtain the preference. After helping all round cut off the head, put the knife between the upper and lower jaw, and divide them; then place the point of the knife in the centre, and part the head in two. The ears and brains may then be helped to those who choose them. HARE : To Fry. When a hare is skinned lay it on a gridiron till hot through, and then quarter and fry it to a nice colour in lard. Soak some toasted bread in beef stock and white wine, with pounded ginger and cloves ; strain it, add a little verjuice, and serve up the hare with butter, sugar, mustard, and lemon juice. Gar- nish the dish with greens and sliced lemon HARE: To Stew. Lard and stuff a hare, and put it into a stewpan, with two quarts of good gravy, one of port wine, a lemon sliced, a bundle of sweet herbs, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and half a dozen cloves; cover it closely, and let it stew over a slow fire till three parts done ; then take it out, and place it in a dish. Mix together bread crumbs, sweet herbs shred small, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg, and strew these over the hare. HARE : To Truss Having cut off the four legs at the first joint, raise the skin of the back and draw it over the hind legs ; leave the tail whole, draw the skin over the back, and slip out the fore legs; cut the skin off the neck and head, but take care to leave the ears on, and mind to skin them. Take out the liver, lights, &c., end be sure to draw the gut out of the vent. Cut the sinews that lie under the hind legs, bring them up to the fore legs, put a skewer through the hind leg, then through the tore leg under the joint, run it through the body, and do the same on the oth«r side Put another ekewer through the thick part of the hind legs and body, place the head between the shoulders, and run a skewer through to keep it in its place; put a skewer in each ear to make them stand erect, and tie a string round the middle of the body over the legs to keep them in their place. HARE, BOUDIN OF. To make this dish the fillets must only be used. Take away all the nerves and sinews, and then pound the meat; rub it through a quenelle sieve, roll it up, and set it aside. Proceed in the same manner with a calf's udder. Soak the crumb of a small loaf in broth, and when soft squeeze . out all the moisture; pound the bread, and rub it through a quenelle sieve; then take equal portions of these articles, pound them together, and mix with them eome dried sweet herbs in powder, a little spice, salt, and pepper; then, according to the quantity of farce you have, put three or four y6lks and one white of egg, so as to make it easy to work up; flour the table, put the farce on it, roll it into the boudin, and poach it in boiling water like the quenelles ; dip it in butter, bread it, and about a quarter of an hour before serving broil it over a moderate fire; pass a salamander over to colour it, and serve it quite dry. It may also be served without poaching, in which case it must be glazed and laid on a fumet of game. If you have not a calf's udder to pound with it fresh butter is a good substitute ; take care, however, to use double the quantity of it. HARE ALA BOURGEOISE. Skin and cut a hare m pieces, and lard them with large lar- dons rolled in parsley, scallions, garlic (all shred finely), aud salt; stew them with half a glass of brandy and 2 ozs. of butter over a slow fire. When nearly done, and the sauce partly con- sumed, pour in the blood, having preserved it for that pui-pose, keep it on the fire till this is quite hot, but not boiling; then take out the hare, and lay the pieces on a dish so closely that they may look like one; let it stand till cool, and then serve. HARE A LA BROCHE. Your bare being properly prepared for dressing, set it on a hot stove to make the meat rather firm before you lard it. When you remove it from the stove dip your hand in the blood, and pass it over the back and legs; then lard to the end of the legs, leaving about an inch between the loin and the leg; then roast it (an hour is sufficient), and serve it with the following sauce :—Mince the liver very small whilst raw, and give it a few turns in a little butter, with a few shallots, parsley, thyme, bay leaves, a tea- epoonful of flour, a glass of white wine, and two of broth. Stir this sauce till it boils, and add salt and pepper; then reduce it to nearly half, and rub it lightly through a sieve into a tureen. HARE CAKE. Take equal quantities of hare's liver, lean ham, and rasped bacon ; prepare the farce as directed for Farcing, add the blood and the juice of a clove of garlic, and cover a mould or stewpan of a proper size with slices of bacon; put in about two inches of farce, cut long, large fillets of cooked bacon, truffles, pistachios, or almonds, and lay them all one way over the farce ; or, if sweets are liked, fillets of dates or fine prunes may be put in instead of truffles; put in more farce, cover as above, and so continue to fill the mould. The fillets may all be laid one way. Cover it over with slices of lard, and put on the cover of the mould ; set it upon an oven leaf, that the bottom may not take too soon, and leave it from three