RIG RIG [ 896 ] fermentation takes place, when the liquor is poured off into close earthen vessels. It is generally buried for several months in the earth, by which means the fermentation is checked, and the strength of the liquor is increased: it is sometimes made strong by boiling. The colour varies from brown to red and yellow, according to the ketan employed. Brom kept for several years is considered excellent by the natives, and is very intoxicating. Saki is the name of the kind of beer which the Japanese prepare from rice : it is tolerably clear, and not a little resembles wine, but has a very singular taste, and cannot be considered pleasant. It is drunk in every tavern, and at meals, as beer and wine are by Europeans ; but before being drunk it is always warmed in a common tea-kettle, from which it is poured into flat tea-cups made of lackered wood, and in this manner it is drunk warm, and in a very short time heats and inebriates; but the intoxication vanishes in a few minutes, leaving behind a disagreeable headache. There are different sorts of wines made from rice by the Chinese, which are yellow, red, white, or pale colour. The most highly esteemed is that called " mandarin." This wine is so strong that it will keep for a great many years, or, as some say, for ages. Within the empire it is principally consumed among the higher orders, who can afford to buy it, and when exported it sells very dear. This wine is considered exceedingly wholesome. Some of the rice wines are so highly perfumed, and so odoriferous, that on opening a bottle the air of an apartment becomes quite fragrant. The lees are distilled, and yield a strong and agree- able kind of spirit, like brandy, which is called shou-choo, sau-tchou, sam-tchoo, and sam-su. The straw of rice serves to make straw plaits for women's bonnets. RICE AND APPLES. Core as many nice apples as will fill the dish, boil them in a light syrup, and prepare J lb. of rice in milk, with a little lemon, citron-peel, sugar, and salt; put some of the rice in the dish, and then put in the apples ; fill up the intervals with rice, and bake it in the oven till it is a fine colour, or glaze it. RICE, BAKED OR BOILED. Wash in cold water 6 ozs. of the best rice, put it in a quart stewpan three parts filled with water, set it on the fire, and let it boil five minutes ; pour away the water, and put in one quart of milk, a roll of lemon-peel, and a bit of cinnamon ; let it boil gently till the rice is quite tender : it v?ill take at least one hour and a quarter. Be careful to stir it every five minutes ; take it off the fire, and stir in li oz. of fresh butter; beat up three eggs on a plate, with a salt-spoonful of nutmeg and 2 ozs. of sugar; put it into the pudding, and stir it till it is quite smooth ; line a pie dish big enough to hold it with puff paste, notch it round the edge, put in your padding, and bake it three quarters of an hour. This will be a nice firm pudding. If you wish it to eat more like custard add one more egg and half a pint more milk. It will be better a little thinner when boiled : one hour will boil it. If you like it in little puddings butter small tea-cups, and either bake or boil them : half an hour will do either. You may vary the pudding by putting candied lemon or orange - peel minced very fine, or dried cherries, or 3 ozs. of currants or raisins, or apples minced fine. If the puddings are baked or boiled serve them with white wine sauce, or butter and sugar. RICE BEIGNETS.. Boil the rice with ver^ little water, and beat it in a mortar, adding proper seasoning and eggs, as in the foregoing receipt, and finish exactly in the same way. RICE BISCUITS. Take the grated rind of a lemon, the whites of sixteen eggs, the yolks of six, i lb. of rice flour, 10 ozs. of powder sugar, 2 ozs. of apple, the same of apricot marmalade, and 2 ozs. of orange flowers. Pound the marmalade and orange flowers together, then add the whites of eggs whipped to a snow ; beat the yolks with the sugar for a quarter of an hour, put them to the rest, and when well mixed in add the lemon-peel and rice flour. Work the whole together, pour the preparation into paper cases, bake them in a moderate oven, and glaze them. RICE BLANC-MANGER. Put a tea-cupful of whole rice into the least water possible till it almost bursts, then add half a pint of good milk or thin cream, and boil it till quite a mash, stirring it the whole time it is on the fire, that it may not burn ; dip a shape in cold water, and do not dry it; put in the rice, and let it stand until quite cold, when it will easily come out of the shape. This dish is much approved of. It is eaten with cream or custard, and preserved fruits. Raspberries are best. It should be made the day before it is wanted, that it may get firm. This blanc-manger will eat much nicer flavoured with spices, lemon- peel, &c., and sweetened with a little lump sugar. Add them with the milk, and take out the lemon-peel before you put in the mould. RICE BREAD. Take 1 lb. of rice, and let it simmer in two quarts of water till it is quite tender. When it is of a proper warmth mix it thoroughly with 4 lbs. of flour, adding yeast and salt the same as for other bread (the proper quantity of yeast to be used is about four spoonsful); knead it well, and then set it to rise before the fire. A portion of the flour should be reserved to make up the loaves. If the rice