WIN [ 560 ] AVIL tlie wigs what shape you please. When done set them on tin plates before the fire till they rise again, and then bake them in a quick oven. The paste may also be made into a single cake, with or without comfits or caraways. WILD DUCK: To Roast. For roasting a wild duck you must have a clear brisk fire and a hot spit: it must be browned on the outside without being sodden in. To have it well frothed and full of gravy is the nicety. Pre- pare the fire by stirring and raking it just before the bird is laid down, and fifteen or twenty minutes will do it in the fashionable way ; but if you like it a little more done allow a few minutes longer. If it is done too much it will lose its flavour. WILL. No one having the slightest regard for his family ever should risk dying without having made a duly executed will. It is cruel not to do so, because dying intestate gives rise to disputes among relatives ; and it is unreason- able, because making a will causes no disquiet or injury to the testator. If a person knows of no property belonging to him except the garments on his back, still let him make a will; for he may be entitled to property, though unknown to him, and his will would convey it to whom he wished, though his title to the property was not discovered until after his death. The will should always be made as concise as possible, and the fewer the words expressive of the meaning intended to be conveyed, the less likelihood there is of its being misunder- stood, or perverted by the litigious and un- principled. The words used to describe the bequest should be such as to leave no doubt as to what is intended to be included, and, at the same time, not so comprehensive as that by any construction they may be held to include more than the testator really intends. Thus, when all iJie testator s jn'ojjerty is intended to be contained in the bequest, such words as the following are the best that can be adopted for the purpose :—" I devise all and every my real and personal estate and estates, whatsoever and wheresoever, and of what nature or tenure soever the same may be, and wheresoever the same may be situate, lying and being, and whether in possession, reversion, or expectancy, or in which I am in any manner interested, or have any right or title whatsoever." Or, if a particular part is only to be comprised, it may be, " All that my messuage or farm at now occupied by ; " or, " All my freehold property at ; " or, " All that sum of £ now standing in my name in the three and a half per cent, annuities," as the nature of the property may be. The inteiest to be disposed of should always be expressed; for, if any real property be merely devised " to my friend A. B.," he would be entitled to a life intei'est only in it. Words of inheritance—that is, " his heii'S and assigns for ever"—must always be added when it is intended that the persons should have the entire property, and right of disposing of the devise. With personal property it is not so; and the bequest of £1000 " to my friend A. B.," without any other words, would give him such entire property and right of disposal. The will in every case must be signed, sealed, published, and declaimed in the presence of two witnesses, who must at the same time sign their names as witnesses in the presence of the testator, and in the presence of each other. The testator must sign his name at the foot of every sheet, and- the witnesses theirs also, and at the end the testator must sign his name and affix his seal, and say, " I hereby publish and declare this as and for my last will and testa- ment, and request you and each of you to attest the execution hereof by me." The form of conclusion should be, " In witness whereof, I, the said A. B., the testator, have to this my last will and testament, written and contained in this and the (three) preceding sheets of paper, set my hand and seal, that is to say, my hand to each of the said (three) sheets, and to this (fourth) and last sheet my hand and seal this day of 18 ; " and the proper form of attestation under which the witnesses are to sign their names and addresses is as follows: —"Signed, sealed, published, and declared by the said A. B., the testator, as and for his last will and testament, in the presence of us, who, at the time, in his presence, at his request, and in the presence of each other, have here- unto subscribed our names as Avitnesses. "C. D. I "E. F."i WINDOW BLINDS. See Blinds. WINDOW CLEANING. Wash off the dirt, dry the glass, and remove the dust with a brush, such as painters use for the purpose. Dab a few spots on each pane with a bag con- taining dry whiting or dried blue, such as is used for washing, and polish this off with a diy cloth or leather. WINE. See Bottling, Cellar, and wines under their respective names. WINE : To Sweeten. Infuse a handful of the flowei'S of clary in thirty gallons of wine; then add 1 lb. of mustard seed ground, put it into a bag, and sink it to the bottom of the cask. When wine is lowering or decaying take 1 oz. of roche alum, and reduce it to powder; then draw off four gallons of the liquor, mix t'^e powder with it, and stir it well for an houx.