[ 461 ] SPI SPE ing on tlie elbow. 9. In the same position, to raise and to lower the body. 10. Walking slowly, and making deep inspirations. 11. Walking a little faster, and counting several steps without drawing breath. 12. Bending without rising, the weak hand fixed above. 13. Piaffer (a term in the manege, which can be best explained by the military phrase " marking time"), with both hands fixed to the horizontal pole. 14. Bending the body, bearing a weight in the weak hand. 15. PiafFer, bearing the same weight in the weak hand. 16. Lifting up a small box from the ground with both hands. 17. The same exercise with the weak hand. 18. To declaim without moving. 19. The same, walking slowly. 20. Singing without drawing breath. 21, 22, 23. Movements of balance simple, in front and on one side. 25, 26, 27. Develope other motions of the arms difficult to describe without diagrams. 28. To imitate the motion of sawing, the patient placed below. 29. The same, the patient placed above. 30. The above exercises with the weak hand only. 31. To draw against a spring with the weak hand, only. 32. The same, the arms and body being fixed. 33. Seated on the ground, to rise with the assistance of the arms, the feet fixed. 34. Lying down horizontally, to raise the body without the assistance of the arms. 35. Exer- cise of the arms with a pulley, the patient sitting, the body fixed. 3G. The same, with the weak hand only. 37. The same, the head fixed in a straight direction. 38. The same, direction of the head to the weak side. 39. Walking some distance, giving the weak arm to a tall person. 40. Lying on the chest, to raise the body backwards. 41. Sitting on the ground, to pull a stick, first with both hands, then with the weak one. 42. Piaffer, leaping up with a weight in the weak hand. 43. The cross step in the same manner. 44, 45, 46. Other movements not explainable with- out diagrams. 47. To rise and to fall, the knees fixed to the arms. 48. To bend the lower extremities, the arms fixed, the weak one higlier than the other. SPIEIT OF WINE. See Alcohol. SPITTING BLOOD. /See Blood, Spitting OP. SPLEEN, INFLAMED. Pain, tumour, and sensation of heat occupy the left side and region of the spleen. There is also some pro- tuberance externally perceptible, and fever, as in other internal local inflammations. The causes are such as external injury. This may be known from inflammation of the lungs by the seat of the disorder; also by the throbbing pain increased on pressure, and by the breathing not being aflfected. Though the disease is, for the most part, easily removed, should an abscess form, which it will sometimes do without much previous painful sensation, this, suddenly burst- ing, pours out its contents among tlie intestines, and destroys the person afflicted. « The spleen, like the liver, is occasionally subject to chronic pain, requiring nutritious diet, mild temperature, and exercise propor- tioned to the strengtli; also the suitable in- fluence of objects acting on the organs of sense, and of such as excite the mind. Its other remedies are alteratives and corroborants. SPONGrB, in the state in which it is met with in commerce, is a soft, light, elastic, and very porous substance, which readily absorbs liquids into which it is immersed, and yields them up again on compression. It may bo considered as the skeleton of an animal, fi'om which the soft gelatinous part representing the flesh has been removed at the time of its col- lection. In the living state it is found attached by its base to rocks at the bottom of tlie sea. It occurs in the Indian, American, and Nor- wegian seas, and the Mediterranean. The best sponges are brought from the Grrecian Archi- pelago, and are called Turkey sponges. An inferior kind is brought from the West Indies, and is called West India or Bahama sponge. Sponge is extensively used for various domestic purposes : the ashes resulting from its combus- tion in close vessels have also been used in medicine, on account of a small portion of iodine which they contain. 8ee Chakcoal. Sponge is of extensive utility in domestic economy, medicine, and surgery. If it be cut in small pieces, fried or dipped in honey, and given to mice, it distends their intestines, and effectually destroys them. As it strongly ad- heres to the orifices of wounded vessels, it is advantageously employed as a styptic, often preventing the effusion of blood more effectually than the puff-ball or agaric. To bleach sponge, soak it in very dilute muriatic acid to remove calcareous matter, then in cold water, changing it frequently, and squeezing the sponge out each time; next soak it in water holding a little sulphuric or sulphurous acid, or chlorine in solution, changing the acid frequently till the sponge is sufiiciently bleached. Lastly, repeatedly wash and soak in clean water, and scent with rose or orange-flower water. SPONGE CAKE. See Cake, Sponge. SPEAIN. This is a violent twisting, and sometimes tearing, of the tendons of a joint. The wrists, ankles, and knees are most liable to it. In the treatment of sprains two circum- stances are necessary to be attended to: firstly, to check the swelling; and secondly, to use the best means for removing inflammation. For the first purpose astringent applications, such as vinegar, ardent spirits, lees of wine, &c., may