SKA [ 440 ] SIC tlien take them out, and put tliem on a sieve to drain. When nearly cold put them again into the syrup, boil them a few minutes more, and drain them as Lefore. Do this a third time, observing the same rules as at first; then put them into glasses or jars, aad pour the jelly over them boiling. SICKNESS. See Inv.^lids and Nausea. SIGHT. See Eye and Spectacles. SILK, WASHING. Lay the piece of silk upon a clean board; soap a piece of flannel well without making it very wet, and with this Irub the silk carefully and evenly one way. After having thus cleansed one side of the silk take a wet sponge, and wash off the soap; proceed in the same manner to clean the other side, and then wipe the water off of each with a clean dry cloth, after which hang the silk in the air to dry. Do not wring it, but hang it as single as possible upon a linen horse, and let it dry gradually. When very nearly dry iron it with a cool box-iron. In this manner a slate- coloured dress, which was so dirty with the constant wear of a winter, that we did not like to use it even for linings without endeavoui'ing to remove some of the spots (and we were quite hopeless of its being fit for anything except linings even when washed), had its brightness completely restored, its texture was softer than when new, and it made a very nice-looking child's frock. We have twice washed a purple cloth frock of the same kind of material as that now called Indiana. This we have done without taking it in pieces; but a silk dress cannot be washed whole, as it must not be rubbed iu the hands lest it should fray. We have also seen a black bombazine dress which was washed wJiole by the common washerwoman - it was not only cleaner than when new, but much softer. Black silk may be refreshed by laying it in cold spring water for a day and night. To wash silk stockings. First wash the Btockings in the usual manner to take out the rough dirt. After rinsing them in clean water wash them well in a fresh soap liquor; then make a third soap liquor, which colour with a little stone blue ; then wash the stockings once more, take them out, wring them, and particularly dry them. Now stove them with brimstone, and draw on a wooden leg two stockings, one upon the other, observing that the two fronts or out- sides are face to face. Polish with a glass bottle. The first two liquors should beonlylukewarm.but the third as hot as you can bear your hand in. . Blonds and gauzes may be whitened in the same manner; but there should be a little gum put in the last liquor before they are stoved. See Stockings. To clean coloured silks. Dissolve some white soap in boiling water until it forms a strong lather. When at blood heat dip iu the article, and if very foul it may be rubbed as in washing, otherwise rinse it two or three times, then remove it quickly into a tub of warm water, and I'inse it repeatedly until you get the soap out. Two or three waters will effect this, and in the last you should mix a little oil of vitriol, sufficient to give it a sourish taste, when the article is bright yellow, crimson, maroon, or scarlet; but use no acid for fawns, oranges, browns, or other shades. For bright scarlet use a solution of chloride of tin Next squeeze out the water gently, fold the article in a sheet, and wring it. Hang it in a warm room to dry, and finish by mangling or calendering. For pinks, rose colours, or their shades, use a little lemon juice, vinegar, or white tartar, in preference to oil of vitriol or solution of tin. For purples, blues, and shades of these hues, add a small quantity of pearlash, which will freshen and restore the colours. Wash the articles like linen garments; but, instead of wringing, gently squeeze and sheet them as directed above, and when dry finish them with fine gum water or dissolved isinglass, to which add a little pearlash rubbed ou the wrong side, and then pin them out. Blues of all shades are dyed with archil, and afterwards dipped in a vat: twice cleaning with pearlash restores the colour. For olive greens a small quantity of verdigris dissolved in water, or a solution of copper mixed with the water, will revive the colour again. See Scoueing. SILVER. /See Plate. SINAPISM. See Poultice, Mustaed. SIPPET PUDDING. Cut a small loaf into extremely thin slices, and put a layer of them at the bottom of a dish, then a layer of marrow or beef suet, a la^-er of currants, then a layer of bread again, &c., and so continue until the dish is filled. Mix four eggs well beaten with a quart of cream, a nutmeg, :|-lb. of sugar, and pour over. Set it in the oven. It will take half an hour's baking. SILiTE ". To Boil, Skate is much better for keeping three or four days, (The back is very much like a crab, and, where it is under- stood, is generally dressed for it, or in a salad.) Make a braise with water, a sprig of basil, a clove of garlic, parsley, onions, and half a hand- ful of salt. This braise would be better if cooked an hour with the parings of the skate, and allowed to cool. Put in the skate, allow it just to boil, take it off the fire, and put in the liver; cover it with a cloth, and leave it ten minutes; take up the skate, and cut off the brown meat, which may be minced and put into the saucepan, strain a little of the braise over, and leave till there is just time for dishing; drain it, and dish it upon a napkin.