SNA [ 446 1 sir A Peruvian bark, wliicli is seldom obtained in a genuine state from the shops. In some parts of England the ripe fruit of the sloe is put into bottles, and, when these will hold no more of the fruit, some sugar is dis- solved in gin, and this then poured into the bottles until quite full. After standing a month or more the liquor differs little from that of cherries in brandy. SMALL POX. See Pox, Small. SMELLING SALTS. See Ammonia, Car- bonate OF. SMELLS, BAD. See CiiLoniDE of Lime and Fumigation. SMELTS : To Choose. This fish inhabits the seas of the northern parts of Europe, and varies very much in size; but the largest has never been known to exceed i lb. It is of a veiy beautiful form and colour, the head is clear, and the skin is so pellucid that with a microscope the circulation of the blood may be distinctly perceived. "When fresh smelts are of a very fine silvery hue, and have a remarkable scent resembling that of a cucumber just pared. They are in season from January to June, and again from September to December. SMELTS : To Fby. Having washed them and cleared away the gills, dry them in a cloth; then lightly flour them, but shake it off again , rub over the fish with a feather some egg beaten up veiy finely, and then strew on crumbs of bread ; fry the smelts in lard over a clear fire, and put them in when the fat boils. When of a fine brown colour take them out and drain them. Garnish with fried parsley and lemon. SMELTS, ATTELETS OF. Take the fillets from six smelts, take off the skin, cut each into four pieces, and trim them ; melt some butter, add to it the yolks of two eggs, salt, and pepper; beat them up well, dip each fillet into this, and roll them ; run a skewer through them so as to prevent them from unrolling, put four on each skewer, and dip them again into the butter. Have ready some bread crumbs, roll the fillets in them very lightly, but so as to cover them completely, and broil them over a clear fire. Take care that all four sides are well coloured. SMELTS, GRATIN OF. Prepare your fish as for frying, spread some butter over the bottom of a deep silver dish, on which shred parsley, scallions, and sweet herbs, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; place the smelts on this, cover them a little with bread crumbs, moisten with melted butter and white wine, and set them on a stove or in an oven. Brown the top, and serve. SMELTS, PICKLED. Wash clean and gut a quarter of a peck of smelts; take Joz. of pepper and as much nutmeg, I oz. of mace, ^ oz of saltpetre, and ^ lb. of common salt; pound all finely, and place the fish in rows in a jar • between every layer of smelts strew the seasoning, with the addition of four or five bay leaves ; boil some red wine, and pour a sufficient quantity on the fish to cover them ; lay a plate upon them, and when cold stop them very closely. They make a pleasant article for supper. SMELTS, POTTED. Gut and sprinkle them with salt, pounded mace, and pepper ; put them into a pan covered with butter, and bake them. When nearly cold lay them on a cloth, pack them in pots, take the butter that they were baked witla, and clarify it with more for a cover- ing to them. SMELTS IN SAVOURY JELLY. Lay twelve clean smelts at the bottom of a stewpan, with half consomme and half Madeira, a little salt, a young onion, and two or three mush- rooms , let them stew gently till well done, then carefully take them out with a skimmer, and lay them on a plate to cool; pass tlie liquor through a double silk sieve to some good consomme, which must be clarified the same'as for aspic jelly. The jelly being made, have a large plain mould ready in ice, nearly half fill it with jelly, and as soon as it is set place the smelts in it, with the heads downwards, and just sufficient jelly to cover them. When these are set fill up the mould, and when wanted dip it in warm water and turn it out on the dish. This makes a good supper dish. SMOKE. See Chimney. SNAIL BROTH. Wash the snails extremely well, and throw them into very hot water ; take them out of the shells, and pass them through several waters, working them well with the hand; slice them, pound the shells, and put all into a saucepan, with as much water as will cover them; boil, skim, and let them simmer for several hours; add a little salt, sugar, and a very small quantity of mace, to correct their mawkish taste. A tea-cupful may be taken four times a day with or without conserve of roses. Should the patient have any repugnance to this form, let it be put in some weak veal broth. This is far preferable to slater wine, to which mothers have often recourse ; but if they have any pre- dilection for slaters, which are excellent, let them be administered in broth. The wine often more than counteracts the good effects of these valuable insects. SNAIL FRICASSEE. Clean and prepare the snails as for broth; cut them in slices, and reduce the smaller snails with the parings in a mortar; simmer them with sweet herbs softly and long, till they are quite tender; add wine, truffle powder, and catsup; thicken with flour