LAM LAM [ 115 ] LAMB, HOUSE, STEAKS (Beown). Dip them into egg, then season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, grated lemon-peel, and chopped pixrsley, and fry them quickly; thicken some good gravy with butter and flour, add a little red wine, some catsup, and some oysters; boil it up, and then put in the steaks warm; let them heat up, and serve. You may add, if you please, palates stewed, forcemeat balls, and hard eggs. LAMB, HOUSE, STEAKS (Whitk). Let them stew in milk and water till they are quite tender, with a small bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of lemon-peel, a little salt, some white pepper, and some mace. Have ready some veal gravy, some mushroom powder, salt, and a little cream mixed up with a small quantity of flour ; shake the steaks round in this sauce, and just before they are taken up put in a few pickled mushrooms. LAMB, LEG OF : To Force. Take a leg of lamb, and with a sharp knife cut out all the meat, but leave the skin whole, and the fat upon it. Make the meat you cut out into the follow- ing forcemeat:—To 2 lbs. of meat put 2 lbs. of beef suet finely chopped; take away all the skin and suet from the meat, and mix it with four spoonsful of grated bread, eight or ten cloves, five or six large blades of mace dried and finely beaten, half a large nuttoeg grated, a little pepper and salt, some lemon-peel cut finely, a very little thyme, some parsley, and four eggs. Mix all these together, and put it into the skin ; make it as nearly as you can into the same shape it was before, sew it up, and roast it, basting it well with butter. Cut the loin into steaks, and nicely fry them ; lay the leg on the dish, and the steaks cut from tlie loin round it, with stewed cauliflowers all round upon the steaks ; pour a pint of good gravy into the dish, and then serve. ; LAMB, LEG OF (Boiled). It should be boiled in a cloth, that it may look as white as possible. Cut the loin into steaks, dip them in egg, strew them over with bread crumbs, and fry them a nice brown. Serve them round the dish, and garnish with, dried or fried parsley. Serve with spinach to eat with it. LAMB, LEG OF (en Saucissons). Bone a leg of lamb, take out above half the meat, and simmer it in butter a minute or two ; then I mince it with calf's udder, grated bacon, bread j soaked in cream, parsley, scallions, and truffles, j and season it with salt and spices. Put this into 1 the remainder of the leg, draw the skin over, and j roll it up in the form of a sausage; wrap it in a cloth, tie it tightly, and boil it in stock, with half a pint of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a few carrots and onions sliced. When done serve it with any sauce you please. LAMB, LEG OF (Stewed with Peas). Take a leg of house lamb, and stew it in some stock or beef braise. When nicely done take it out, put it in a slow oven, and glaze it three or four times ; then have some nice young peas, well stewed with some good bechamel sauce; pour them on the dish, lay the leg on the top, cut the loin into cutlets, and do them on the fire with some butter and strong gravy. When nearly done shake them well in their glaze, dish round the lamb over the peas, and serve them hot to table. LAMB, LIVER OF. Have ready two lambs' plucks, cut the lights into dice, the liver into thin slices, and fry them lightly over a small fire in butter. They should be scarcely more than browned. Drain away half the butter, add- ing a little parsley and a few mushrooms shred small ; season them with salt, pepper, and lemon juice, and serve them very hot. LAMB, LOIN OF (a la Peeigord.) Neatly trim a loin of lamb, warm it over the fire in a stewpan with a little oil, mixed with some green onions and mushrooms chopped, salt, and pepper; then change the lamb into another stewpan, well lined with slices of veal seasoned, and seven or eight truffles sliced, covered with thin rashers of bacon, and half a lemon cut in pieces. Let the whole stew over a slow fire, moistening with stock; and when done skim the fat from the sauce, pass it through a sieve, place the loin on a dish with the truffles, and pour the sauce over. LAMB, NECK OF. This is a small, deli- cate joint, and therefore only suited for a very small family. It must be washed in warm water, all the blood carefully cleaned away, and boiled. LAMB, PASCALINE OF. Scald four lambs' heads, bone the jaws, and cut off the ends of the noses; scald, also, the feet, singe them, and then cook the whole together in a blanc. When done drain them, lay the heads in a dish, fry your feet lightly in a little butter, with the yolks of four eggs, a little parsley, and a few mushrooms. Have ready a lamb's pluck, dressed as directed for Lamb (Livers of), and having laid the feet, with their sauce, in the dish with the heads, place the rest round them, aud serve. LAMB PASTY. Bone the lamb, cut it into four pieces, lay beef suet at the "bottom of the pasty, and season the lamb with pepper, salt, chopped thyme, nutmeg, cloves, and mace ; lay it upon the suet, making a high border about it; then turn over your sheet of paste, close it up, and bake it. When it is baked put in vinegar, the yolks of eggs well beaten, and some good gravy. LAMB PIE (German Wat). Cut a quartet of lamb in pieces, and lard them with small lar-