C 431 ] SHA Beam, turning it back again exactly at the raw- edge of the turn, so that the fold may be double ; then lay down a single fold on the second piece, and place the edges of both together, with the turns inside ; then sew them neatly, and when finished lay the seam down smoothly, and hem the fold on the other side. The sewing must be on the right side, and the hem on the wrong.—[Finchley Manual.) SHALLOT SAUCE. Take two spoonsful of the liquor in which mutton has been boiled, two spoonsful of vinegar, two or three shallots cut finely, and a little salt; put these ingredients into a saucepan, with a bit of butter rolled in flour; let them stew a little, and serve the sauce up with mutton or beef. SHALLOT VINEGAR. Put six or eight shallots (split) in a quart bottle, fill it up with vinegar, and stop it. It will be fit for use in a month. SHANK JELLY. Soak twelve shanks of mutton four hours, and cleanse them thoroughly; put them into a saucepan, with three blades of mace, an onion, some peppercorns, sweet herbs, and a crust of bread toasted ; pour thereon three quarts of water, and set the pan (covered) on a hot hearth; simmer gently five hours, strain off the jelly, and put it by in a cool place. A pound of beef may be added to advantage. SHAVING. The size of a razor is not an immaterial consideration, for wounding the face is much more frequent with a large razor than with a small one. The cutting edge of our razors is no more than two inches and a half long, and from the extreme point of the handle to the extreme point of the blade each razor is only seven inches and three quarters in length, and weighs no more than If oz. A greater length of edge is totally useless, for even of the above length never any other part than the inch and three quarters furthest from the handle is used in shaving. A rectangular point to the blade is preferable to any other, and however more finished and ornamental may be the ap- pearance of a rounded point, yet the practical result of such rounding is to increase the diffi- culty of repoving the beard from the angles between the nose and upper lip. We prefer the razor handle to have rather acute edges, because these render it less liable to turn or slip from the grasp of the fingers. When you are possessed of razors which suit you keep them as carefully as you should your favourite riding-horse: never lend either. It is as certain as razors are razors that once using upon a strange beard, and by a strange hand, renders a razor much less efficient for removing its owner's beard. A difference in the stropping, and a difference in the angle at which it is applied to the roots of the beard,^ turn and set the extremely minute teetn composing the razor's edge, so as to render it much less keenly cutting when applied at a different angle by its accustomed user. Every one should have a pair of razors in his house devoted to the use of his friends; and even these razors he should strop and carefully put away so soon as each friend has departed, or woe be to him who next has to come under their operation. This brings us to remark upon the very singular truth that most razors are improved by a few days' rest. So influential is this rest that we have known a razor thrown by as irrevocably intractable, and yet taken from its drawer at the end of a few months, and restored to be the favourite and most efficient razor of its owner. It may be an altered magnetic state of the razor; it may be a gradual alteration in the hardness of the razor's teeth, for, viewed through a microscope, the edge is seen to be a minutely fine saw; but whatever the explanation of the fact, the fact is a certainty. To keep a razor in good condition it should be stropped after using, having previously been dipped into hot water and wiped perfectly dry. Dryness is essential to its preservation ; and the practice of an old friend is not bad, who places his razor after using before the fire, and puts it away whilst hot. The mode of applying the razor to the beard is of no small importance. If it be applied flat against the face the edge must be most keen, and even then many of the finest hairs bend down and pass beneath it. On the other hand, if the angle at which the back of the razor is raised from the face be too great, the edge of the razor is more speedily turned, and not only requires more stropping, but ia consequently more speedily worn out. There is considerable art in stropping a razor. If it be performed incorrectly it does more harm than good, because, instead of giving an edge, it has a diametrically opposite tend- ency—it destroys the edge. Those who, in using the strop, turn the razor on the cutting side, though they lift it from the strop, are sure to give a blunt edge. To use the strop effect- ively the razor should be laid upon it, and drawn from heel to point, then turned by resting it on its back as it moves round, without letting it quit the strop. When flat on the other side it should again be drawn from heel to point the other way. If the edge, as the razor lies flat on the strop, face the body of the operator, the blade should be drawn from him; but if the back face him the razor must be drawn towards him. Thus it must always lie obliquely when on the strop. Were this not so the edge would not be keen. It is this obliquity dui'ing the action of the strop that imparts the fine