WIN WIN [ 563 ] adding another coat, which will form a complete incrustation against damp or dry rot. There are means of hastening the ripening of wine, some of them unattended with deleterious consequences; but all these means, however innocent, are injurious to wine itself. The wine should be left to ripen naturally, and this ripening will be impeded if the temperature of the cellar is not properly attended to. The liquor should be examined from time to time, and if it gets musty or tart put a quantity of clean wheat straw into a bag, and suspend it in the cask from the bung-hole : when the wine becomes firm, which will soon be the case, rack it off from the lees into a clean cask. This is better than pouring oil on the wine—a practice to prevent it from turning musty. Hazel chips are an efficacious and harmless remedy for clearing turbid wine; or a more active ingredient is powdered gypsum, stirring it up well in the cask, and drawing oft" the wine when the powder has subsided to the bottom. Before wine is racked into a fresh cask it is always proper to prime it by means of a rag dipped in brimstone, lighted, and inserted in the bung-hole at the end of a wire, the cask being stopped up after it has burned a minute or two. The reason for, and utility of, this is chemically proved as follows :—If two or three drops of the oil of tartar are poured into half a glass of fine red wine, the wine will lose its red colour, and become opaque and yellowish, like turbid and pricked wine ; but if two or three drops of the spirit of sulphur, which is a very strong acid, are afterwards poured into the glass, the same wine will entirely resume its beautiful red colour, when the reason is easily seen why sulphur is burnt in hogsheads in order to preserve wine, since it is not the inflammable part of sulphur that causes this effect, but its acid spirit that enters and fer- ments the wood of the vessel. Madeira wines require a high temperature, and no process for ripening them is found to be equal to a voyage to India, when the heat of the sliipholds, added to the motion, produces the effect desired, though often at a considerable waste caused by evaporation. It has been attempted to imitate this, and even to give the motion, by artificial means, and doubtless it may be done. Indeed, in some cases Madeira wine is placed in pineries and other forcing houses, with a view of quickening it to maturity. There are many situations in factories where the opportunity of effecting .it on a large scale occurs, and may be made available with little lost or trouble. There is a practice, very generally adopted in France, for ripening new wines by the appli- cation of heat. It is as follows:—They take Claret which has been in bottle a year or less, and drawing out the corks, pour a glassful from each, and then re-cork them tightly. Next they place the bottles so prepared in a hot oven, and stop it up for two hours, at the end of which time they allow it to cool gradually. After this they fill up the bottles, cork them carefully, replace them in the cellar, and in a day or two the wine has every appearance of having been bottled for ten years. Whatever may be the quality or value of wine, it must always be so much more so, comparatively, than the corks, that it is the height of folly to use an inferior article. Yet how frequently do we find that a bottle of corked wine appears, the loss of which is but poorly compensated by the saving of a few shillings in as many gross of corks. Some recommend the corks to be dipped in a size made of white wax melted with half its quantity of beef suet, letting them dry rapidly, and repeating the dipping till perfectly saturated; others ai'gue against the corks at all, but suppose the substitution of a bladder tied over the mouth of the bottle, which retains the alcohol, and consequently improves the wine, although it may permit some portion to evaporate. The use of corks of the best quality for all sorts of wines, and of the second best for beer or porter, will, however, obviate any appre- hension on this score; and they should be dipped in some of the liquor before they are inserted, to facilitate the driving down. Most wine merchants, when they bottle off" a tierce of wine, permit the bottles to stand on end for two or three weeks before they lay them down, and in general a day or two without the corks. We need scarcely repeat that the bottles should be carefully washed, racked dry, and afterwards strictly examined, to ascertain that no leaden shot or any other matter has been left in. Neglect on this point will produce greater loss than what is incurred by a little extra expense. WINES, BRITISH. These are severally noticed under the names of the articles of which they are made. It is of considerable conse- quence to the making of good wine that atten- tion be paid to the state and condition of the fruit. Fruit of every sort should be gathered in fine weather. Those of the berry kind often appear ripe to the eye before they really are so ; there- fore it is requisite to taste them several times in order to ascertain that they have arrived at the crisis of maturity. This is an important point in the making of excellent wine. If fruit be not ripe the wine will be harsh and iiard, unpleasant to the palate, and more so to the stomach; it will also require more spirit and saccharine, and take a longer time to be fit for