LIQ LIV [ 16S ] juice, Spanish sugar, and black sugar, is obtained from the root of this plant. The roots having been dug up, they are thoroughly cleansed, and, half dried by exposure to the air, are cut into small pieces, and boiled in water till the liquid is saturated. The decoction is then allowed to rest, and, after the dregs have subsided, is decanted and evaporated to the proper con- sistence. The extract thus formed is made into rolls from five to six inches long, by an inch in diameter, which are dried in the air and wrapped in bay leaves. Much of the best of this liquorice is made in Catalonia, but a great deal is pre- pared in Calabria from Glycyrrhiza echinata, ■which abounds in that country, and is con- sidered better and purer than that made from common Kquorice. Refined liquorice is made by dissolving the impure extract in water with- out boiling, then straining the solution and evaporating it. It is customary to add during the process a portion of sugar, and sometimes, perhaps, mucilage or glue; and flour or starch is a frequent adulteration. Pontefract cakes have for centuries been made at the town of that name, and are small lozenges of refined liquorice, impressed with a rude figure of a castle, in- tended to represent Pontefract Castle. To refine it take Spanish liquorice, 4 lbs.; gum arable, 2lbs.; water, a sufiicient quantity. Dissolve, strain, evaporate gently to a soft extract, roll into cylinders, cut into lengths, and polish by rubbing them together in a box. Ex- pectorant in coughs. LIQUORICE PASTE. Scrape and bruise Jib. of liquorice root, and boil it in a little water till it is much reduced; let it stand to settle, pour it off clear, and dissolve in it i oz. of gum dragon. When thoroughly dis- solved sift it in a linen bag, mix sugar with it till it is brought to the consistence of a paste ; and then cut it into what flowers or designs you think proper. LITHARGE, or Half-vitrified Oxide of Lead, is obtained by exposing calcined lead to a brisk fire, sufficiently strong to melt it into an oil, which, on cooling, concretes into a flaky matter. Thus, according to the different degrees of heat, it assumes a deep or pale red colour : the former is generally called litharge of silver, and the latter litharge of gold. This preparation is of extensive utility for roasting gold, silver, or copper ores, as it liquefies all earthy and extraneous matters into glass, and thus the metal is more easily separated. Litharge is also employed by potters for glazing their wares (though such vessels are unwholesome), and likewise in the composition of certain glasses, because it is not only fusible in itself, but contri- butes to the fusion of other substances. Lastly, it may be revived into lead, and thus considerable quantities, which are produced by refining metals, are again converted into their original form by melting them upon burning coals. LITHARGE PLASTER is the same as Diachylon. LIVER: To Fry. Liver should be cut across the grain in slices about half an inch thick; pour boiling water over them, drain, and season with pepper and salt; flour each piece, and drop it into a frying-pan with hot bacon dripping. Do not fry it any longer than it is done, or it will be hard; take it up in a dish, make gravy as for beef, and pour over it. LIVER, CALF'S: To Dress. Slice it, season with pepper and salt, and boil it; then rub over it a little butter, and serve it hot. To roast the liver wash it thoroughly, then make an incision in it, and stuff it with bread crumbs, chopped anchovy, herbs, fat bacon, onion, salt, pepper, a little butter, and an egg. Fasten this tightly and lard it, or wrap the liver in a veal caul and roast it. Serve with brown gravy and currant jelly. LIVER,' CALF'S (and Bacon). Cut the liver into thin slices, and fry them till nicely browned. Next do the same with thin slices of bacon, lay them upon the liver, and serve the dish up with a little gravy and crisped parsley. LIVER IN CAUL. Take the lean livers of pullets, capons, geese, turkeys, &c., with marrow, bacon, veal sweetbreads, mushrooms, truflles, some lean dressed ham, some onion, and parsley. When well minced mix it with some yolks of eggs to bind it. Take the caul off a calf or sheep, and cut it into pieces according to the size you would have them ; lay some of the farce on each piece of caul, and place fat liver upon that, then some more forcemeat, then another liver, then forcemeat, and so on till you have laid all. Put the pieces of caul on a sheet of paper, and fry them in boiling lard, or bake them in an oven in a patty pan. When they are done drain away the fat, lay them in a dish, warm a little gravy, season with salt and pepper, and pour it over the livers; add a squeeze of orange or lemon juice, and serve. LIVER, INFLAMMATION OF. Inde- pendently of the causes producing other inflam- mations—such as cold, or external injuries from bruises and blows—this disease may be brought on by violent exercise ; by intense summer heats, long-continued agues, and remittent fevers ; by high living, more particularly by an intemperate use of vinous and spirituous liquors; and by various solid concretions in the substance of the liver itself. Derangement of the digestive organs, suppressed secretions, inflammation, compression, fevers, and affections of the mind, are also very general causes of obstructions and diseases of the liver.