MOS MUF [ 222 ] of mortification, and we cannot too strongly recommend it. MOSELLE WINES. This is a generic name given to a great variety of wines, many of which are of a very ordinary description. The generality of Hocks consumed in England are produced on the banks of the Moselle, and some are of excellent quality, though they vary pro- digiously in that respect. Moselle and E,hiue wines are almost synonymous. MOTH. To exclude this insect from articles of dress, carpets, &c., camphor, tobacco, and many other strong-smelling applications have been recommended, but the best preventive is perfect dryness. Small articles of woollen and fur should be rolled into compact, close bundles, and have wrapped around them two, thi'ee, or more wrappings of unbroken paper, in such a manner as to prevent the ingress of insects. If this be properly done they may be put where most convenient, in a dark place or in a light one, in a tight drawer or on an open shelf, and they may be left undisturbed until wanted, whether that be six months or six years, without danger. There is no need of camphor, tobacco, &c. MOUNTAIN, BRITISH. Take some very fine Malaga raisins, pick out all the stalks, chop them very finely, and to every 5 lbs. of raisins put a gallon of water. Let them remain three weeks, stirring them frequently during that time; then squeeze out the liquor, and put it into a vessel that will just hold it, but be careful not to stop it till it has done hissing; then bung it up closely, and it will be fit for use in six months. MOUNTAIN WINE. This is also called Sweet Malaga, and is now very little made. Like all the Malaga wines, it is similar to Sherry, but very inferior in flavour, and retains its sweetness till it is two years old. MOUSE. See Mice. MOUSSELINE DE LAINE. This ■ fabric when soiled is usually thrown away, but it may be washed according to the following directions :—Remove the sleeves from the body, and the body from the skirt; take out the plaits; but the lining, if any, need not be removed. Whip over any ragged part to keep it from fraying. Wash it in cold soft water, soaping it thoroughly until a good lather is raised; if very dirty pass it through a second water, soaping again. Finally, rinse it in two or three waters until quite free from soap and dirt, using it lightly ; shake it; then extend it evenly on an ironing-table. When perfectly even hang it on a horse before a good fire until it is partially dried, but not dry enough to curl up. Ii'on it quickly when very damp, on the right side only. Hang it up again, and repeat the process of ironing two or three times, until it is as smooth and diy as new. The point to keep in view is to iron when very damp in the first instance. MOUTH GLUE. See Glue, Portable. MOXA. A small combustible body em- ployed for producing actual cautety. Moxas have been applied as counter-irritants in cases of gout, rheumatism, &c. They are usually made in the form of small cones or short cylinders, which are placed on the skin, ignited, and allowed to burn to the base. Chinese Moxas. Prepared from the do^vny portion of the leaves of Artemisia Sinensis. European Moxas. Usually made of carded cotton soaked in solution of nitrate or chlorate of potash. The pith of the elder tree or the sunflower is sometimes used. MUFFIN LOAF. Stir into a pint of mush a small piece of butter, a little salt, a pint of milk, and enough wheat flour to make a thick batter; stir into it half a tea-cupful of yeast, and let it rise. When it is light butter a pan, pour it in, and bake. Eat it hot at breakfast or supper. It will bake in a shallow pan in half an hour; if in a deep vessel allow more time. MUFFIN PUDDING (1). Boil a small \ piece of lemon-peel, a little cinnamon and sugar about eight or ten minutes in a pint of milk. Put three mufiins into a large basin, strain over them the milk, and when cold mash the whole with a wooden spoon. Pound about 1 oz. of blanched almonds; mix them well in, with about \ lb. of any dry preserved fruit, such as apricots, cherries, or plums, a little gi-ated nutmeg, three yolks of eggs beaten, and two table-spoonsful each of brandy and orange- flower water. Bake the pudding with puff paste round the dish, or you may boil it tied up in a basin. Currants may be substituted for the preserved fruit. 1 MUFFIN PUDDING (2). Take a pint and a half of milk, add to it a few coriander seeds, a bit of lemon-peel, sugar according to taste, and boil them together for ten minutes; then put four muffins into a pan, strain the milk over them, and when they are cold mash them with a wooden spoon ; add half a gill of brandy, ^ lb. of dried cherries, a little grated nutmeg, j 2 ozs. of sweet almonds blanched and pounded extremely fine, and six eggs well beaten. Mix all these together, and boil in a basin ; or bake it in a dish with paste all round it. MUFFINS (1), Mix 2 lbs. of flour with a I couple of eggs, 2 ozs. of butter melted in a ' pint of milk, and four or five spoonsful of yeast; beat up thoroughly, and set it to rise for i two or three hours. Bake it on a hot hearth in flat cakes, and turn them when done on one side. i MUFFINS (2). Take two .quai'ts of warm 4