HEA [ 83 j HEA have been sufficiently cleared chalybeate waters, and such bitters as strengthen the stomach, will be necessary. A periodical headache has been cured by wearing a piece of flannel over the forehead during the night. When the headache arises from a vitiated state of the humours, as in the scurvy and venereal disease, the patient, after proper evacuations, must drink freely of the decoction of woods, or the decoction of sarsaparilla, with raisins and liquorice. These, if duly persisted in, will produce very happy effects. When a collection of matter is felt under the skin it must be discharged by an incision, otherwise it will render the bone carious. When the headache is so intolerable as to endanger the patient's life, or is attended with continual watching and delirium, recourse must be had to opiates. These, after proper evacua- tions by clysters or mild purgatives, may be applied both externally and internally. The affected part may be rubbed with Bates's anodyne balsam, or a cloth dipped in it may be applied to the part. The patient may, at the same time, take twenty drops of the tincture of opium in a cup of valerian or pennyroyal tea twice or thrice a day. This is only to be done in case of extreme pain. Proper evacua- tions ought always to accompany and follow the use of opiates. When the patient cannot bear the loss of blood his feet ought frequently to be bathed in lukewarm water, and well rubbed with a coarse cloth. Cataplasms with mustard or horse- radish ought likewise to be applied to them. This course is peculiarly necessary when the pain proceeds from a gouty humour affecting the head. When the headache is occasioned by great heat, hard labour, or violent exercise of any kind, it may be allayed by cooling medicines, as the saline draughts with nitre, and the like. A little ether dropped into the palm of the hand and applied to the forehead will sometimes remove a violent headache. HEALTH is a proper disposition of the several constituent parts of the body, by which tliey are enabled to perform their respective functions without any impediment. The continuance of health depends chiefly on what has been professionally called the six non- naturals, namely, air, food, exercise, the passions, evacuation and retention, and sleep and waking. I foderation, however, in the strictest sense of the woi'd, is equally essential to the preservation of health as a pure air and wholesome food. Cleanliness, too, ought by no means to be neglected, for an unclean person very seldom enjoys good health. Hence frequent washing VOL. II. of the skin is of the first importance, and we are fully persuaded that most of the diseases with which the lower classes of people are affected, especially in crowded neighbourhoods, originate from the filthy state which is but too evident in many of their wretched habitations. See Air, Diet, Drainage, Exercise, &c. HEARING. See Deafness and Ears. HEART, BULLOCK'S : To Bake. Make a stuffing of crumbs of bread, chopped suet, or a little butter, parsley, sweet marjoram, lemon- peel grated, pepper, salt, and nutmeg, with the yolk of an egg; stuff the heart, and place it in the oven. When done serve it up as hot as possible, with gravy, melted butter, and currant jelly. A heart is better baked than roasted. HEART, BULLOCK'S: To Roast. Clean it well, and cut off the deaf ears ; then stuff it with forcemeat similar to that for a hare, lay a caul of veal or piece of paper over the top to keep in the stuffing, and either roast it by a hang- ing-jack or in a cradle-spit. A heart of good size will take two hours to roast before a brisk fire. Baste with red port, and when roasted take out the gravy, skim off the fat, and add to it a glass of wine. Put some lumps of currant jelly into the dish, and also separately in a saucer. Serve the heart perfectly hot. HEART, BULLOCK'S (Stuffing for). The proper stuffing for a bullock's heart is the same as that used for hare, and the heart should be hashed in the same manner as hare, taking especial care that it is not allowed to boil, but onlv to simmer. HEART," CALB'S: To Roast. Make a forcemeat of grated bread, Jib. of beef suet chopped small, a little parsley, sweet marjoram, and lemon-peel, mixed with a little white pepper, salt, nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg; stuff the heart, ana lay a caul or a sheet of writing paper over it. When roasted serve it with gravy. HEART, PALPITATION OF THE. This disease consists in a strong and irregular motion of the heart, and may be a consequence oi disease, or of some malformation of this organ or the chest; it may also arise from fulness of habit, as well as from general debility of the system. So violent is the action at times that it can not only be felt with the hand, but distinctly seen, and in some instances may even be heard. In the course of the disease, and when it has proceeded to a certain extent, there is fre- quently, with shortness of breath, a purplish tinge of the lips and cheeks, and a variety of painful and anxious sensations. In some instances it has terminated in death, but in many others it is merely a symptom of the hysterics and other nervous complaints.