LEN I US ] LEM LEMONS, COMPOTE OF. Cut some lemons in small pieces, boil them in water till they are tender, and then change them into cold water; make a syrup with a glass of water and Jib. of sugar, and put in the fruit; let it sim- mer gently over a slow fire for half an hour, and serve cold. I LEMONS, ESSENTIAL SALT OF. This is a poisonous preparation, so called because it has the same effect upon fruit stains in linen and cotton as the crystallised acid (citric acid) obtained from lemons. Mix together ^ oz. of cream of tartar (bi-tartrate of potash) with 1 oz. of salt of sorrel (bin-oxalate of potash), both finely powdered. Moisten the stain with warm water, and then rub upon it a little of the mixed powders. It would discharge the colour from printed muslins, or from any other linen or cotton fabric. LEMONS, PRESERVED. Choose your lemons as near of a size as possible, with rather thick rinds; pare and put them in cold water, then into boiling water over a moderate fire, and when you can insert a pin's head with ease throw them again into cold water. Boil some sugar to lisse, then put in the lemons, give them a few boils together, and skim and put them into a pan. The next day drain off the sugar, I boil it several times, and then pour it over the j lemons again. The third day boil the sugar to nappe, adding fresh sugar to it; put the lemons in, cover the pan, and give them one boil. Do this for two days successively. On the last, however, boil the sugar to perle, and when you have boiled the lemons put them by in pots. LEMONS PRESERVED GREEN. Split some small green lemons on one side, that they [ may take the sugar inside as well as outside; I put them into cold water, set them on the fire, and keep them from boiling by pouring I cold water on them frequently. As soon, how- ! ever, as they rise above it take them from the fire, throw them into cold water, and after they have lain a short time in it put them on the fire, boiling them slowly till the fruit is quite tender, when they must again be put into cold water. Clarify some sugar, put the lemons to it, and having let it boil up seven or eight times, put the whole into a pan till the next day; then drain off the syrup, boil it up twenty or thirty times (having added a little fresh sugar), pour it over your lemons, and repeat this process for three successive days, increasing the boiling point of the sugar each day, so that on the last it will be iox perle, when the fruit must be boiled with it once, and then put into pots. LEMONS, SYRUP OF. Put a pint of fresh lemon juice to If lb. of loaf sugar, dis- eolve by a gentle heat, skim it tiU the surface is quite clear, and add 1 oz. of thinly cut lemon-peel; let them simmer very gently toge- ther for a few minutes, and run through a flannel. When cold bottle and cork it closely, and keep it in a cool place. LEMONADE (1). Take four lemons, para the rind as thin as possible, squeeze them int5 a quart of water, add ^ lb. of fine sugar, and let it stand two or three hours; then pass it through a jelly bag into decanters. LEMONADE (2). Take five lemons and two Seville oranges, pare off the rinds as thin as possible, pour on them a quart of boiling water, and to the juice of the fruit add half a pint of white wine and ^ lb. of loaf sugar. Let them stand all night closely covered, strain off the liquor into one vessel, and pour over them half a pint of boiling milk. Strain through a jelly bag till quite clear. LEMONADE LIKE JELLY. Pare six lemons and a couple of Seville oranges very thin, and steep them in a quart of hot water four hours; boil \\lb. of loaf sugar in three pints of water, skim it, and add the liquor of the six lemons and of the two oranges to the juice of six China oranges and twelve lemons. Stir the whole well, and run it through a jelly bag till clear; then add a little orange water if you like the flavoui', and, if necessary, add more sugar. It will keep well if properly corked. LEMONADE POWDERS (1). One part of citric acid to six parts of finely powdere i sugar. The quantity to mix with water will depend on the taste. LEMONADE POWDERS (2). Acid of tartar, loz.; sugar, 6 ozs.; essence of lemon, 2 drachms. Rub them together, and divide into twenty-four packets. LEMONADE AND WINE. Put the peel and juice of two lemons into a pan, and pour ou them a pint of boiling water, 1 lb. of sugar, and two bottles of good Burgundy. Let these stand half an hour. It will keep well if properly corked. LENITIVE ELECTUARY. This is called confection of senna by medical men. Take of senna leaves 8 ozs.; figs, I lb.; tamarind pulp, cassia pulp, and the pulp of prunes, of each ^ lb.; coriander seeds, 4 ozs. ; liquorice root, 3 ozs. ; lump sugar, 2|^lbs. Powder the senna leaves with the coriander seeds, and separate by sift- ing 10 ozs. of the mixed powder. Boil the residue with the figs and liquorice root in four pints of water until it be reduced one-half; then press out and strain the liquor. Evaporate the strained liquor in a water bath until a pint and a half only remains of the whole ; then, the sugar being added, make a syrup. Finally, mix gradually the pulps with the syrup, and having