SAL R AL [ 412 I salt, white pepper, pounded mace, and Jamaica pepper, all well mixed together; then roll it tightly, and bind it; put it into a stewpan, with as much water and one-third vinegar as will cover it; add bay leaves, salt, and both sorts of pepper; cover closely, and simmer till done enough. Drain and boil the liquor quickly, and pour it over when cold. Serve with fennel. SALMON, CRIMPED. When the salmon is scaled and gutted cut off the head and tail, cut the body through in slices an inch and a half thick, and throw them into a large pan of pump water. When they are all put in sprinkle a handful of bay salt upon the water, stir it about, and then take out the fish. Set a large deep stewpan on the fire, boil the head and tail, but do not split the head : put in some salt. When they have boiled ten minutes skim the water very clean, and put in the slices. When they are sufficiently boiled take them out, lay the head and tail in the centre of the dish, and the slices round. You may, if you please, dress the head and tail alone, and serve the slices another time. SALMON, DRIED. Cut the fish down, and take out the inside and roe ; scale it, rub the whole with common salt, and hang it to drain for twenty-four hours. Pound 3 ozs. or 4 ozs. of saltpetre, according to the size of the fish, 2 ozs. of bay salt, and 2 ozs. of coarse sugar; mix these well, rub them into the salmon, and lay it on a large dish for two days ; then rub it well with common salt, and in twenty-four hours more it will be fit to dry. Wipe it well after draining, and hang it either in a wood chimney or in a dry place, keeping it open with two small sticks. Dried salmon is eaten broiled on paper, and only just warmed through. Egg sauce and mashed potatoes are usually served with it; or it may be boiled, especially the bit next to the head. SALMON, DRIED : To Deess. Lay it in soak for two or three hours, and then broil it, shaking a little pepper over it. SALMON, GRILLED. Put a piece of salmon into a dish, and pour over it some good oil, to which add a little fine salt, bay leaf, parsley, and scallions cut in two; then turn the fish, and let it soak for some time, after which lay it on a gridiron, taking care to baste it occasionally with the seasoning. Tiy the flesh by raising it with the point of a knife, and at the thick part of the back, and if red let it remain a little longer. ^ When done turn it on a dish, take off the skin, pour some melted butter over the salmon, and strew capers thereon. SALMON, MARINATED. Take two hand- some slices of salmon, and marinate them in oil and lemon juice, salt and pepper; broil them about two-thirds, and then put them into a saucepan with their marinade ; set them on hot ashes to simmer for half an hour, put them on a dish, cover them with grated bread, colour with a salamander, and serve. SALMON, PICKLED. Cut a salmon in two or three pieces, put them in a kettle, and set it on the fire, with a sufficient quantity of water to cover the fish, and plenty of salt. As soon as it begins to boil set it aside to simmer very gently until done ; then take it off the fire, and let it stand until cold ; take it out, lay the pieces closely together in a tub to pickle, and over them five anchovies, a small quantity of pounded salt- petre, and a quarter of a pint of sweet oil. Being thus prepared, put the top of the salmon liquor into a stewpan, to which add the same quantity of white vinegar; put it on the fire to skim, and boil it for two or three minutes ; take it off, and let it cool. When cold pour it over the salmon, and tie it down, in three days turn it, and in a week's time it will be fit for use. This is merely in a small way. A great quantity being done at once requires neither oil nor anchovies. Serve garnished with fennel. SALMON, PICKLED : To Dkess. Soak a piece of salmon all night in pump water, then lay it on a fish plate, and put it in a stewpan, with three spoonsful of vinegar, a little mace and some whole pepper in a small muslin bag, an onion, a nutmeg bruised, a pint of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, some parsley, lemon- peel, and i lb. of butter rolled in flour ; cover the stewpan very closely, and let it simmer over a gentle fire for a quarter of an hour; then take it up, lay it on a dish, and keep it hot before the fire. Let the sauce boil till it is of a proper con- sistence, take out the spice, onion, and sweet herbs, and serve the sauce over the fish. SALMON PIE. Take a piece of fresh salmon, clean it well, and season it with salt, mace, and nutmeg ; put a piece of butter at the bottom of the dish, and lay the salmon therein. Take a boiled lobster, pick out the flesh, chop it small, bruise the body, and mix it well in melted butter ; pour the whole over the salmon, cover it up, and let it be well baked. SALMON, POTTED. Take off the heads and fins ; gut, clean, and wipe, but do not wash them ; mix equal quantities of salt, saltpetre, and allspice; rub, pack them into an earthen pan for twelve hours, take them out, and let them drain ; for, if they are drained from the beginning, the seasoning is lost before it takes effect. Prepare and mix in fine powder eighteen blades of mace, thirty cloves, ten long peppers, a nutmeg, ^ oz. of pepper, and 1 oz. of bay salt; rub the fish gently that they may not be bruised; pack them into a deep earthen pan, and put over them as much butter as will completely cover them; cover with white and strong