HAI II AD HADDOCKS THE SCOTCH WAY. If boiled they are previously salted, and the head and skin taken off. They are also broiled, and served with cold butter ; or fried, after being boned and cut into pieces, and then done over with egg and crumbs of bread strewed upon them. In this manner they resemble soles. Some split them down the middle, rub them with butter, and roast them in a Dutch oven. HEMORRHAGE, or Hemorrhage. See Bleeding. HAGGIS, SCOTCH (1). Blanch and chop finely the heart and lights of a calf or sheep, to which add 1 lb. of beef suet well shred. Take the crumb of a French roll soaked in cream, beaten cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, half a pint of sweet wine, 1 lb. of raisins stoned and chopped, flour to give the whole a proper consistence, the yolks of three eggs, salt, and some sheep's chitterlings cut in slips. Having mixed all these, put them into a sheep's bag or stomach well cleaned, tie it up tightly, and let it boil three hours. HAGGIS, SCOTCH (2). Make the bag properly clean, parboil the draught, boil the liver well so that it may grate, dry oatmeal before the fire, mince the draught and a tolerably large piece of beef very small, grate about half the liver, mince plenty of suet and some onions small, and mix the whole well together with a handful or two of the dried meal; spread them out a little, and season them properly with salt and different spices, taking any of the scraps that may be left, and some of the water in which the draught was boiled, and make about a quart of good stock of it; then put all the haggis meat into the bag together with the broth, and sew it up, taking care that the wind is previously expelled. If the bag is thin put it intcJ a cloth. A large haggis will take two hours at least. HAIR. This beauteous gift of nature is ofttimes so carelessly arranged as to prove a disfigurement, instead of an embellishment,' to the female form. We will, therefore, draw atten- tion to the most simple and correct mode of disposing and ornamenting the tresses. To effect this purpose we must allude to the ancient Greek women, whose method of arrang- ing the hair presents a striking contrast to all modem innovations of bad taste. This style of coiffure, designated by the French as dia Grecqiie, is the most simple, appropriate, and graceful that can adorn a woman's head. W^hat can be more beauteous in its simplicity than to see the glossy hair parted in the centre of the brow, drawn in a curved line across either side of the temples over the ears, then twisted into a knot, which extends to the nape of the neck ? When a more elaborate toilet was required the daughters of Greece entwined either fillets of ribbon, or wreaths of leaves of the ivy or vine, around their brows, or twisted strings of pearls or jewels in the knot of hair. This elegant method displayed alike the luxuriance of " nature's covering" and the formation of the head, neither concealing the shape of the latter, nor rendering it apparently out of proportion, by increasing its natural dimensions with bows and plaits. What can be moi-e inelegant and ungraceful than a mass of hair brought down low on either side of the cheek, and rendered as stubborn as possible by factitious aids, such as frizzing or gum, the hair at the back of the head being braided into wide plaits, and caused to stand from the head ? Add to this, in the evening attire, a towering plume of waving feathers, a massive tiara, large bunch of flowers, or wreath of full-blown damask roses. All must admit this style of coiffure to be as unbecoming as inelegant, for the beauty of the head and tresses is alike annihilated, the form of the first being hidden and enlarged, the exquisite softness of the last destroyed. As regards the style in which the tresses are confined, we think that a woman is fully justified in following the dictates of her own free will and good taste, instead of adhering to those of custom and fashion; and we un- hesitatingly afiirm that a female cannot either display better taste or judgment than in arranging her locks with neatness, simplicity, and elegance; and these three essential points in adornment are combined in the coiffure d. la Orecque. In France all women> from the descendant of a race of kings to the offspring of une dame de la halle, alike pay scrupulous attention to the neatness of the hair; and we wish those of our readers who are acquainted with French habits to recall to their recollection the smooth glossy tresses of the high-bora lady, the shining locks of the maitresse de mayazin, la demoiselle de houtique, la femme de chambre, la fille de Vauherge, la grisette, et lapoissarde; and although the hair of the first may be en- circled by a bandeau of sparkling diamonds, the second by un joli bonnet hrode, the third un- adorned by the hand of art, whilst the tresses of the last four are surmounted by caps of thick muslin, and then say if the coiffure of each of these women is not alike distinguished for neatness, simplicity, and good taste. Many of our fair countrywomen have a strong predilection for curls and ringlets, and the latter mode of wearing the hair is becoming to the ex- tremely juvenile, provided the tresses be un- sullied by oil or pomade ; for what can be more uupleasant in appearance, or uncleanly in reality, than a cluster of pendent curls saturated with unctuous matter? The occasional use of an