SHI [ ^35 ] SIII other strips, each three inches in width i and cut for shirts. A piece twenty-six yards long, and a. a youth while at play—when throwing a hall, for example—witliout his coat, they will see that the shape of the arm-hole in his waistcoat is round, while that of his shirt is long, extending, moreover, far below the former: the consequence is, that with every movement of the arm the gusset is " frayed," and strained across the middle hy the edge of the waistcoat. This is a proof that the arm-hole of the shirt is too long (an invariable fault), and that for want of ease in the set of the gusset it will wear out quickly, and tear away at the lower point. To obviate these defects we recommend a plan which we have acted upon for years with satisfactory results, namely, to let the gussets be large and set in full; not so full as the sleeve, but easy, so as to prevent the drag upon that part, and shorten the arm-hole. When shirt collars (those with a narrow band and pieces cut the cross way) are cut out, all the little scraps of fine Irish should be saved, in order to be used for covering the buttons. With this trifling extra trouble when shirts are made the buttons will wear out the set; whereas, if this be neglected, the wire buttons will cut through with the force used in ironing, and require to be renewed every two or three months, and of mother-of-pearl there is no end. Bdtton-holes. By attending to the follow- ing simple rule button-holes will always retain their shape ; by neglecting it they w ill inevitably stretch and become round, so that the buttons easily slip out precisely when they are most wished to remain in. Before the overcasting is begun sew one end over strongly, and run the thread in and out (or even stitch it) to the other end, which also sew over; then continue it round to the first, and begin to work or overcast it. This preliminary operation is intended to strengthen and keep the edges together. Calicoes are now dressed with lime, and should always be washed with soap thoroughly, not merely soaked in plain water, before they are made up; but where it is not convenient or desirable to wet them first, the difficulty of working them will be overcome by rubbing them with a piece of dry yellow soap down the seams, and, in short, wherever the needle is intended to pass. Unless fine Irish be purchased for shirts, &c., it will be found to be cheaper, in every sense of the word, to substitute good calico. Of this fact, from long and ample experience, we are quite certain. A piece of linen generally measures twenty- six yards in length. It is made of different widths — some three quarters, some seven- eighths, some a yard, and some an ell, or five quarters ; but yard-wide linen is mostly preferred yard wide, makes eight shirts. There are nineteen parts in a shirt—the body, two sleeves, two wrist- bands, two binders, two shoulder-straps, one collar or band, two sleeve-gussets, two neck- gussets, two side-gussets, two wrist-gussets, and one bosom-gusset. Obtain a pattern shirt, as that enables you to ascertain the exact length and cut for the body, and also all the other parts. But supposing you should not be able to get a pattern shirt, then measure the girth of the person's neck for the length of the collar or band, and the girth of his wrist for the length of the wristbands. Supposing that you aro going to make your eight shirts out of a piece of cloth twenty-six yards in length, cut tha bodies first, for which purpose take off seven- teen yards, and divide it into eight equal parts ; each part will then be two yards and a quarter long. Then cut off five yards and a half-quarter for eight pairs of sleeves; this divide into eight equal parts. Each breadth will make a pair of sleeves twenty inches in length, and half a yard, or eighteen inches, in width. Next take off seven-eighths for six collars. Cut this along the selvage into three equal parts ; each part will then be twelve inches wide, and must ba cut across in the middle, so that the length may be about fifteen inches and three-quarters. Cut off half a yard for six pairs of wristbands ; there will be six in the width of the cloth, each six inches wide; and two in the length, nine inches long. Cut off twelve inches for six pairs of sleeve-gussets: the width of the cloth will give six, each six inches wide; and the length will give two, six inches long. The sleeve- binders should be about twenty-five inches long; therefore cut off half a yard and three nails. The width of the cloth will allow of twelve strips, each strip three inches in width; and thus you get six pairs of sleeve-binders. Next cut out the shoulder-straps for six shirts. Take off ten inches and a half of cloth, and this will give twelve strips cut from the width of the cloth, each strip being three inches wide. The neck and side-gussets must be of the same dimensions as the shoulder-straps ; therefore cut off nine inches or a quarter of a yard; then divide the piece along the selvage into eight strips. Each strip will thus be four inches and a half wide, and, when cut across the middle, four inches and a half in length. These square pieces, cut angularly, will answer both purposes for the eight shirts. Take a strip twelve inches wide off the full length along the selvage, and, when cut across, this will form two collars. Cut otF another strip in the same direction six inches wide ; and this, when cut across into four parts, will serve for two pairs of wristbands. For the sleeve-binders and shoulder-straps cut off' four