MAC MAC [ 173 ] some fresh butter in the dish, as well as on the outside. MACKEREL: To Carve. See Fish: To Cabve. MACKEREL: To Choose. The season for this fish is from April to July. When fresh its vaiiegated colours are bright and beautiful, the gills are red, and the eyes lively. MACKEREL: To Dress in Various Ways. This fish is usually consumed by the poorer classes, boiled with fennel sauce—a mode . of dressing very good when the fish is to be soused or pickled, but which destroys much of its nourishing properties, and renders it diy and insipid. When a number of mackerel are obtained very cheap they may be preserved several days, either by frying them on both sides until they are half done, or else by par- boiling them. The former mode is the least objectionable, because, as we said before, the latter deteriorates their flavour. To par- boil them they should be put into boiling water containing a little salt and vinegar, and should remain over the fire, from the time they are put in, during five minutes. The cold mackerel may be dressed in any of the ways directed for Soles, Cold ; but there are many other cheap and profitable modes of cooking them raw. Some of these we shall designate. Clean the mackerel, but do not split them down nor remove the head. Make a stuSing thus. For two mackerel crumb a sufiicient quan- tity of bread that, with the other ingredients, there shall be enough to fill the fish ; shred small 2 ozs. of suet and the scalded liver of the fish ; mix these with the bread crumbs, together with a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a bit of chopped lemon, and pepper and salt to your taste; bind all this, and work it into a paste with clarified fat or butter; fill with it the inside and head of the mackerel; lay these in a baking dish, with a cupful of broth containing a little anchovy liquor, a spoonful of vinegar, and a bit of butter. Another Mode. Score and season the mackerel without splitting them, and broil them on a clear fire ; then pour over them the fol- lowing sharp sauce :—Boil gently in half a pint of vinegar and water in equal parts a parsley root, a bay leaf, and two onions. When the onions are melted strain the liquor, season it, and set it over the fire ; add to it a spoonful of catsup; as it boils thicken it with butter rolled in flour, and before you take it up add a spoonful of capers or chopped gherkin, or any other pickle. Another Mode. Stuff the mackerel as for baking ; lay them side by side in the saucepan, with a bit of butter, a couple of table-spoonsful of cold water, and one of catsup ; season them well with pepper and salt, cover the sauce- pan, set it on the hob, and let the fish stew very gently in their own juice. They may be eaten with onion sauce made thus :—Chop two or three onions very small, pour them into boil- ing water with a few peppercorns, and let them boil to pap ; throw away the water, and drain the onions; then put them in an earthenware mug, with a little milk, and salt to your taste. Set them either on the hob or before the fire, cover them well, and let them simmer gently until thev are incorporated with the milk. MACKEREL : To Dry. They must be very fresh. Gut and wash them very clean, cut off their heads, split them down the back, and lay them quite flat; then hang them by the tails to drain. They should be hung in a very cool place. Strew some salt at the bottom of a pan, sprinkle the fish thoroughly with salt, lay them in a pan belly to belly, and back to back, and let them lie in the salt twelve or fourteen hours; then wash the salt off clean, and hang them up to drain for half an hour; pepper the insides a little, and lay them to dry on stones laid aslant towards the sun. Take care never to let them be out when the sun is not on them, nor till the dews are dispersed, as the stones they are laid upon should be warm and dry. They will be perfectly cured in a week. Hang them up by their tails, putting the insides together, in a diy place, but not in any smoke. They should be either fried in boiling oil, or broiled on or before a very clear fire, and basted with oil on a feather. No sauce will be required; for if they are good they will be very moist and mellow. If they should be dry you may serve with a little melted butter and parsley, or crimped parsley. MACKEREL: To Pot. Clean, season, and bake them in a pan, with plenty of spice, bay leaves, and butter. When cold put them into a pot, and cover them with butter. MACKEREL WITH BLACK BUTTER. The mackerel for this dish should be dressed according to the directions for Mackerel, Grilled. Dish them, then put a piece of butter into a frying-pan, and when it is quite hot fry some parsley in it, and pour it over the fish; heat up some vinegar, and pour that over also. MACKEREL EN CAILLES. Cut two or three mackerel each into three pieces, give them a few turns over the fire in butter, with parsley, shallots, mushrooms, pepper, and salt; then wrap each piece in a vine leaf, with a piece of bacon and some of the seasoning; lay them on a baking dish, put the remainder of the seasoning over, and set them in the oven. When nearly done take them out, cover them