WOO woo [ 568 ] woodcocks are picked take out the entrails, set them aside, and truss the birds as for roasting ; fiatten the breast-bone, and boil them over a clear charcoal fire ; let them get cold, and lard them all over. Pound some bacon in a mortar, mix with it the livers of the birds, also pounded, and two or three leaves of sweet basil; mince the entrails veiy fine, and mix with them the rest of the farce; raise the pie, lay some of the farce at the bottom of it, and put the rest into the woodcocks; lay them in the pie, put between them some pounded bacon mixed with fresh butter, and seasoned with a little mace, nutmeg, and salt; then lay in a nice veal cutlet, and over that some slices of bacon cut very thin; put on the cover, and set in the oven for three or four houi's, according to the number of birds. Serve cold. For another way of making woodcock pie follow the directions given for Snipe Pie. WOODCOCK SAUCE. Pound the bones and livers of roasted woodcocks, and put them into a stewpan, with two spoonsful of cullis and two of port wine ; reduce to the consistence of a sauce, strain it, and when strained add pepper, salt, and the juice of two oranges. WOODCOCKS: To Boil. First make a good strong broth or gravy by cutting 1 lb. of lean beef into small pieces, and putting thereto four quarts of watef, an onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade or two of mace, six cloves, and some whole pepper. Boil this till half reduced, strain it off, and put it into a saucepan, with some salt. Draw the birds, taking care of the trail; put the woodcocks into the gravy, cover them closely, and boil them for ten minutes. Rub small the inside of a roll, put it into a pan with some butter, and fry it till it is crisp and of a fine brown colour. When the birds are ready take about half a pint of the liquor they were boiled in, and add to the guts two spoonsful of red wine and a piece of butter rolled in flour; set them on the fire, and shake the saucepan frequently, but do not stir it with a spoon till the butter is melted ; then put in the fried bread, give the saucepan another shake, take up the birds, pour the sauce over them, and garnish with sliced lemon. WOODCOCKS : To Carve. Raise the legs and wings as in a fowl, but the head must be opened for the brain. WOODCOCKS: To Choose. Woodcocks are accounted best about a week or two after their first appearance, which is generally on the setting in of winter. If they are fat and in good condition they will feel firm and thick; the vent will be -plump and hard, and the vein of fat may be traced along the breast; but a lean bird will be the reverse, and its vent in particular will be thin. When lately killed the feet will be supple, and the head and throat clean; but the contrary signs show that the bii'd is stale. WOODCOCKS: To Dress (1). The greatest possible care should be taken, in picking these birds, to handle them as little as possible, on account of the skin being so particularly tender that, when broken, it spoils the beauty of the bird. When picked cut off the pinions at the first joint, press the legs close to the side, through which and the body place the beak of the bird ; then cross the feet, and lay a slice of bacon over the breast. Woodcocks and snipes may be dressed according to the same rules. WOODCOCKS : To Dress (2). Take \ lb. of lean beef, cut it into pieces, and put them into a saucepan, with two quarts of water, an onion stuck with cloves, two blades of mace, and some whole pepper; boil all these together till reduced to half, and then strain it off into another sauce- pan. Draw the woodcocks, and lay the trails in a plate; put the woodcocks into the gi'avy, and let them boil in it for twelve minutes. While they are boiling mince the trails and livers very small, put them into a small saucepan with a little mace, and add four or five spoonsful of the gravy the woodcocks were boiled in; then take the crumb of a stale roll, rub it into a dish placed before the fire, and put to it the trails ; have in a small saucepan half a pint of red port wine, with a bit of butter rolled in flour, set it on the fire, and shake it round till the butter is melted; then put in the bread crumbs, and shake the saucepan round; lay the woodcocks in the dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. WOODCOCKS: To Dress (3). Woodcocks should not be drawn, as the trail is, by the lovers of haut goiit, considered a bonne boiiche. Truss their legs close to their body, and run an iron skewer through each thigh close to the body ; tie them on a small bird-spit, and put them to roast before a clear fire: cut as many slices of bread as you have birds, toast or fry them a delicate brown, and lay them in the dripping-pan under the birds to catch the trails; baste them with butter, and froth them with flour; lay the toast on a hot dish, and the birds on the toast; pour some good beef gravy into the dish, and send some up in a boat. Twenty or thirty minutes will roast them. Garnish with slices of lemon. Some epicures like this bird very much under- done, and direct that a woodcock should be just introduced to the cook for her to show it the fire, and then send it up to table. WOODCOCKS : To Pot. Pluck and draw out the trails of sLx woodcocks, thrust the bills through the thighs, put the legs within each other, and the feet upon the breasts; season with mace, pepper, and salt; put them into a deep pot, with 1 lb. of butter over them,