TAW TEA [ ^82 ] In notching tlie edge of a tai't (this must, of course, be done before it goes into tlie oven) use a sharp linife. Mal^e the cuts at equal dis- tances, about an inch broad, so as to form squares; turn upwards one square, and leave the next one down, and so on all round the edge. This is the clievaux de frize pattern. For the shell pattern, having notched the edge of the paste into squares, turn up one half of every square, giving the corner a fold down. The paste should always be round the rim or edge. All tarts are best the day they are l)aked, but they should never be sent to table warm. Put some fine sugar at the bottom, then the fruit, with sugar over all. When covered bake them in a slack oven. Mince pies must be done in tins with puff paste. Apples and pears for tarts should bo pai'ed, quartered, and the cores taken out. Divide the quarters again, put them into a saucepan with just water enough to cover them, and let them simmer slowly till tender. Put a nice piece of lemon-peel into the water with the fruit. In making each tart pour over it a tea- ppoonful of lemon juice, and thrice as much of the water the fruit was boiled in. Apricot tart may be made in the same manner, but without lemon juice. Wlien tarts are made of preserved fruits lay in the fruit without sugar, and place a very thin crust over all, but let them remain in the oven a short time. Iced tarts should be baked in a slow oven to prevent their becoming brown. Cheesecakes should be put in the oven im- mediately after they are made, otherwise they will become oily, and look disagreeable. The oven should be of a moderate heat, for if too hot it will burn the cakes, and if too slack they will be heavy. TAWING. See Lkather. TEA. This is the produce of two varieties of the camellia-like plant Thea, one known as T. hohea, and the other as T. viridis. The difference between the manufacture of black and green tea consists in the leaves undergoing a certain degree of fermentation for the former before drying, and in those for the latter being directly submitted to a high tem- perature in iron pans, the popular belief that green tea is obtained by being dried in copper pans being quite a fallacy. In making black tea the process is not unlike that of making hay in this country. The leaves, as soon as gathered, are thrown together in a heap, and so left to undergo a certain degree of fermentation, by which they assume a dark colour and become flaccid. This state being obtained, they are brought to the " twisters," who, either by a peculiar twisting between the thumb and forefinger, cause them to assume the shrivelled appearance they have when they anive in this country, or are thrown upon a table made of split bamboo, and upon this uneven surface the leaves are nibbed and rolled by the hands till the twisting has been effected. From the twisters the leaves are conveyed to the drying room, where they are put into revolving cj-linders of wicker-work, and dried over small charcoal fires for the space of an hour, being stirred from time to time that the whole may receive the influence of the heat. They are again sent back to the twisters, who repeat their twisting operation; and, after being sifted in a hair sieve to remove the fine dust, they are returned to the wicker cj'linders, where, over a slower fire tlian the first, they are dried, this operation being performed three or even four times till they become black and crisp. For green tea the leaves, when gathered, are taken directly without undergoing any fermentation, and a few pounds thrown into iron pans, which are placed over small charcoal furnaces, and heated to a certain degree. As they are thrown into the pan they crack with the heat; and it is the business of the attendant to keep stirring them with his bare hand till the whole mass is so hot as to be no longer endurable. They are then emptied down upon mats before the " rollers," who, taking small quantities at a time, roll them between the palms of their hands in one direction, or on the bamboo tables as the black tea, while others are fanning them that they may cool the sooner, and i-etain their curl the longer. This operation is repeated two or thi'ee times, the degree of heat being reduced each time, and the process conducted more slowly and carefully. When perfectly dry and crisp it is stowed away for use or for market. The varieties of black tea are— 1. Bohea, which is in the form of a small blackish leaf, dusty,-and of a somewhat brackish taste. It should be quite crisp, and that which smells faint and disagi'eeable should be rejected. 2. Congou. Of this there are two sorts— CamjMi conrjou, a superior kind of bohea, with a larger and less dusty leaf, a fine flavour, and not unlike souchong; and Anhay contjoii, with a small wiry leaf and burnt smell: when fresh and first imported it has a high flavour, which it loses on the voyage. 3. Souchong is made from the leaves of trees three j^ears old, and from older trees when they are grown in very rich soil; but there is ver3' little of this variety made, that which comes to this country under that name being the first quality of congou. In a plantation of tea trees one only may be good enough to be called souchong, and of this only the best and youngest leaves are taken : all the others go to make boheas and congous. That which is