HEN HEM [ 36 ] costive habit to which such women are usually prone. The piles are more troublesome than dangerous, and in many instances are to be regarded as a salutary evacuation. The tumours are sometimes attended with a considerable degree of inflammation, which, proceeding to suppuration, may terminate in fistulae, &c. It is necessary, in treating the piles, to pay strict attention to the causes which gave rise to them; and, as costiveness is one of the most frequent, the bowels should be kept open by the regular use of such medicines as will prove gently laxative without irritating, which may be effected by the following electuary:—Take flowers of sulphur, 1 oz. ; lenitive electuary, 2 ozs.; cream of tartar, 3 drachms; syrup of roses enough to make the whole into an electuary. About the size of a walnut to be taken occasionally. Where there is much inflammation, and con- sequent irritability of the tumours, leeches applied to them will prove serviceable. They may also be scarified with the point of a lancet, applying afterwards pledgets dipped in some cooling astringent lotion, such as a solution of the sugar of lead or sulphate of zinc, observ- ing after each stool to anoint the parts with some kind of emollient ointment, such as the cerate of sugar of lead, 1 oz, with which 2 drachms of pulverised opium have been mixed. Fomentations are also serviceable, and in plethoric habits small doses of nitre, as in the above electuarj'. The patient should en- deavour to obtain motions at stated times, and without straining. Balsam of copaiba, to the extent of 40 or 50 drops, morning and evening,, frequently relieves the pain so often produced by the piles. In those cases where the tumours are not attended with much inflammation, but are nume- rous and very troublesome, pressure upon them is the most effectual remedy; and however much the tumours may protrude, either during stool or at other times, they may almost always be returned by means of gradual and constant pressure upon thera with the fingers, the patient lying on his back; and a bandage properly secured, with a small pad or compress of soft linen dipped in some anodyne lotion, will prevent them from falling down again. If the piles protrude every time on going to stool they must be replaced in the manner here men- tioned, and treated-in the preceding way; and where this proceeds from a lax state of the parts, to the use of the bandage may be added astringents, by means of pledgets dipped in a strong solution of galls or oak bark, anointing the parts from time to time with ointments that have the same effect. Take decoction of oak bark, 1 pint, made by boiling down 2 ozs. of the bark in 2 pints of water to one ; to which add alum, 2 drachms ; tincture of opium, 1 drachm; and mix for an injection. Or, take white vitriol, 1 drachm; rose water, 1 pint; tincture of opium, 1 drachm. Or, bruised oak galls, ^ oz.; hot water, 2 pints ; and make an infusion by pouring boiling water on them. During the continuance of the piles, and when the tumours are in a high state of inflam- mation, the patient's diet should be cool, nu- tritious, and easy of digestion. Water, or toast and water, with cooling acidulated drinks, should be his only beverage. In order to prevent a relapse when the virulence of the piles has abated, and to strengthen the parts, washing them with cold water night and morn- ing is serviceable in bracing up the coats of hemorrhoidal veins, and in hardening the ex- crescences. The piles have sometimes been injudiciously stopped by the use of powerful astringents, which have been the means of bringing on more troublesome and dangerous complaints, so that it has been deemed advisable, on many occasions, to have them reproduced, which has proved salutary, for which bleeding in the feet has been recommended, with small doses of aloes given every night until the object has been obtained. HEMP, the produce of the plant Cannabis sativa, is spun into thread, whence it is made into twine, cordage, cloth, netting, &c. Besides the strong cloth and other articles made from it, hemp is of considerable utility for other pur- poses. The refuse, called hemp-sheaves, affords an excellent fuel; and the seeds yield by ex- pression a pure oil, which is peculiarly adapted for burning in chambers, as it is perfectly limpid, and possesses no smell. When fresh hemp has a strong, narcotic smell: the water in which it has been soaked is said to be in a high degree poisonous, and to produce fatal effects imme- diately after drinking it. The seeds have an unctuous, sweetish taste; and they may be triturated with water or boiled in milk as an emulsion, which is occasionally taken as a do- mestic remedy in coughs, heat of urine, and similar complaints. HEN AND CHICKENS. Half roast a shoulder of mutton, then cut off the blade at the first joint, with both flaps ; score the blade in diamond squares, throw over some pepper and salt, and put it into a Dutch oven. Cut the flaps and meat off the shank in slices, and put the gravy of the mutton into a stewpan, with some good gravy, two spoonsful of walnut catsup, one of browning, a little Cayenne, and one or two shallots. When the meat is tender thicken the gravy with flour and butter, put it into the dish, and lay the blade over all. Garnish with green pickles.