[ 137 : LEM LEG The best diet for promoting the cure of ulcers is to avoid high-seasoned food, strong liquors, and to use a smaller quantity of animal food than usual. The body should be kept gently open, and tlie patient should use moderate exercise, and be kept as cheerful as possible in an airy situation. LEGHORN STRAW. See Straw. LEMON. The lemon is the fruit of Citrus limonum, and of it there are many varieties. Some of the most important are :—rl. The com- mon lemon, which is met with so plentifully in commerce. It is generally of an oval shape, with a thick rind, which is sometimes smooth and sometimes rough, with an abundaftt, sour juice. This is the Genoa lemon. 3. The thin- skinned lemon. This is a remarkably fine variety, of large size, and with a thin, smooth, shining, and fragrant rind, under which it is difficult to discern any white. The pulp is very delicate, and abounds in an agreeable acid juice, which has a delightful aroma. It is said to be only in the neighbourhood of Rome that it yields its fine aroma, and hence it' is called lustrato. 3. The sweet lemon has a sweet pulp, like an orange, but has all the exterior charactei^s of the lemon. 4. The citron lemon is a large, oblong, warted fruit, with a rough rind, which is thick and eatable. It is one of the least delicate of the lemons, and is much cultivated in Liguria. There are numerous other varieties cultivated in the south of Europe; but, as they are never seen in this country, we need not occupy our space with descriptions of them. The principal supplies of lemons received in this country are from Messina. ^ The juice of the lemon is the part which is most valued for its peculiar and grateful flavour, which is due to citric acid. It is cooling, and, when properly diluted, forms an agreeable and refreshing beverage in inflammatory diseases, under the name of lemonade; or added to other sick-room drinks, such as gum water and barley water. But the most important property it possesses is the prevention and cure of scurvy, for which it is known by the name of lirrie juice ; and, of late, drinking the pure expressed juice has been highly extolled as a remedy against severe attacks of acute rheumatism. The rind has a fragrant odour, is warm, aromatic, and bitter. It yields, by expression an,d distillation, an essential oil, called oil of lenjons, which is much used for its flavour. The rind is also candied, like that of the orange, and is used for the same purpose. LEMON BONBONS. Take 2 lbs. of the best loaf sugar ; clarify and boil it to caramel, but just before it reaches that point grate the rind of a lemon, and put it in. In the meanwhile melt a little butter; skim and pour it off dlear. Take a spoonful of this butter, and rub it with your hand over a copper plate or marble slab, on which pour the caramelled sugar ; then have a sword blade, take an end in each hand, and impress lines on the sugar about an inch apart; then impress similar lines across the first, so as to form small cakes. This operation is to be performed as quickly as possible, lest the sugar should cool before the whole is marked. When, however, all is done, pass the blade carefully between the sugar and the slab, lay the bonbons on sheets of white paper, and when pei'fectly cold separate them and wrap each in paper. Keep them in a dry place. LEMON BRANDY. Put the peel of two lemons into a bottle of brandy; let it stand for four-and-twenty hours, and then strain it. Boil 2 ozs. of loaf sugar in a quarter of a pint of water, skim it, let it stand till cold, and then mix it with the brandy. LEMON BUTTER WITH SWEET- MEATS. Blanch and pound very finely 1 oz. of sweet almonds ; put them to a quart of boiling cream ; add the whites of three eggs well beaten, a little orange-flower water, and sweeten accord- ing to taste. Then take a lemon, grate the rind into some lemon juice, add it to the cream, and make it boil; then put it into a hair sieve, and when well drained beat it together, and lay it in a high dish, with sweetmeats or ratafia cakes all round. LEMON CAKE. Take the whites of ten eggs, with three spoonsful of rose or orange- flower water, and beat them an hour with a whisk ; then put in 1 lb. of sifted sugar, and grate in the rind of a lemon. When well mixed add the juice of half a lemon, and the yolks of ten eggs beaten till smooth; stir in f lb. of flour; then butter a pan, and bake it in a moderate oven for an hour. LEMON CAKES (1). Quarter as many lemons as you think proper. They must have good rinds. Boil them in two or three waters till they are tender and have lost their bitterness ; then skin them, and put them into a napkin to fry. With a knife take all the skins and seeds from the pulp, shred the peels finely, add them to the pulp, weigh them, .and put rather more than their weight of fine sugar into a tossing-pan, with just suSicient water to dissolve the sugar; boil till it becomes perfectly dissolved, and then by degrees put in the peel and pulp, stirring them well before you set them on the fire; boil the whole very gently till it looks clear and thick, and then put it into flat-bottomed glasses. Set them in a stove, and keep them in a continual and moderate heat. Turn them out upon glasses as soon as they are candied. LEMON CAKES (2). Choose the best- coloured lemons, scrape out the blocks, grate