[ 459 ] SPI SPE Rule for concave glasses for near-sighted per- sons. Multiply the greatest distance at which the short-sighted sees distinctly \yith his naked eye by the distance at which it is required he should see distinctly by a concave glass, and divide the product by the difference between the said distances. If it is to see objects remote the focus should be the same as that required for the distance of distinct vision. SPERMACETI. The spermaceti whale is characterised by his enormous head, great part of which is occupied by a triangular cavity of bone, covered only by the common integuments. In the living animal this cavity is filled with a white, fluid, oily substance, amounting some- times to many tons in weight. On the death of the whale it congeals into a white unctuous mass, from which a considerable quantity of very pure whale oil is obtained by expression. The residuum, afterwards freed from impurities by washing with water, melting, straining, express- ing through linen bags, and lastly washing in a weak lye of potash, is the peculiar substance well known by the name of spermaceti, for which, probably on account of its conveying an incor- rect idea of the nature of the substance, the London College has substituted cetaceum,, which has been adopted by other colleges. Spermaceti is also contained in solution in the common whale and other fish oils, for it is often found deposited by crystallisation in the reservoirs containing them. Great quantities of spermaceti are annually consumed in the manufacture of candles and tapers, which are preferable to those made of wax, as the former burn not only brighter, and are of a finer colour, but, when genuine, do not stain or grease the finest silks, linens, or cottons. This drug is also used as a cosmetic for soften- ing and cleansing the skin. In medicine it is chiefly recommended in the form of an emul- sion, with distilled waters and the yolks of eggs, for relieving various affections of the intestines, coughs arising from defluxions of acrid humours, &c. Spennaceti is also dissolved in oils, and beneficially applied to bruises, sprains, and similar injuries, as it contributes to mitigate pain. SPICED BREAD, COMMON. Boil 3 lbs. of honey in a gallon of water for a quarter of an hour, then pour it on the flour in the trough, and mix them together well until the flour will imbibe no more liquid. When a little cooled add 3 ozs. of potash, infused the night before in half a pint of milk, and knead the whole well, putting to it some pounded anise. Roll out the paste, and with paste cutters of various forms cut it into little figures; lay them on a well-oiled tin, bake them, and when done wash them over with milk. With this paste spiced nuts are made. When formed lay them on tins, and leave them in a warm place two or three days before they are baked. SPICED BREAD, DUTCH. The evening before you wish to make j'our spiced bread dissolve 3 ozs. of white potash in half a pint of milk, and set it aside. The next morning put a considerable quantity of sifted flour into a trough, and make a hole in the heap, into which pour 6 lbs. of clarified honey. Whilst boiling stir it well with a strong spatula until the honey, reduced to a firm paste, will imbibe no more flour; then spread it over the bottom of the trough, and leave it for about ten or fifteen minutes. At the end of that time, if the paste be sufficiently cool for you to bear your hand on it, rub its surface with the infusion of potash ; then set a strong person to knead it in the same man- ner as the bakers knead bread. Have ready a number of different-sized moulds of pear-tree wood, on which are cut, pretty deep, octagons of various dimensions; then cut your paste into as many pieces as you have moulds in the follow- ing proportions :—For the mould containing ] lb. take 18 ozs. of paste, and so on; knead each piece separately on the slab, rub them with flour to prevent them from adhering, and then put them into the respective moulds, press- ing them down tightly. In a minute or two turn them over, place them on a tin plate previously rubbed with olive oil, and with a soft brush take off what flour may remain on the surface of the spiced bread, and bake them in a moderate oven. Whilst they are baking dissolve some isinglass in a sufficient quantity of beer, with which, by means of a hair pencil, wash the outside of the spiced bread as soon as it is done, and then while it is moist and warm decorate it with blanched almonds, and candied lemon and orange-peel cut into dice. You may, if you think proper, cut these sorts of sweetmeats into very small pieces, and knead them into your paste at first. When they are nearly cold separate the pieces with a knife. SPICED BREAD, DUTCH (Rich). Make your paste in the same manner as above, and when kneaded with the potash add J lb. of aiiise, 2 ozs. of coriander, 2 ozs. of cinnamon, 1 oz. of cloves (all reduced to an impalpable powder), 1 lb. of candied lemon-peel, and the same of candied orange-peel, both cut into thin slices ; mix these ingredients thoroughly with the paste, and then cut it into pieces, each weighing 28 ozs. (these, when baked, will not exceed 1 lb. in weight); spread them on your slab, and form them into squares two or three inches in thickness ; place them side by side on a baking tin previously rubbed with oil of almonds, and put round the tin some slips of wood, to prevent