[ 180 1 M A I M AL middle part and fry the fins. They should be dipped in egg and covered with bread crumbs. MAINTENON CUTLETS. Cut away the sliin and the greatest portion of fat from tender mutton chops, and remove the end bones. Let a table-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs, a few sprigs of parsley, four shallots, and two good-sized fresh mushrooms, if attainable, be well chopped, and warmed up in the fi-ying-pan with a little butter. When the herbs, &c., are quite hot put the chops upon them, and be sure to dress both sides equally. When perfectly brown take them out and let them cool. Brush good stout writing paper over with Florence oil; have ready enough finely grated bread crumbs, and an equal portion of dressed ham, also grated; cover the chops with this, having previously dipped them in yolk of egg well beaten up. Envelope in the oiled paper, and broil for four or five minutes over a slow fire, taking great care that the paper does not ignite, or get covered with smoke or soot. MAlTRE D'HOTEL, COLD. Put i lb. of butter into a saucepan, with some parsley and shallots minced small, whole pepper, and lemon juice; mix the whole together with a wooden spoon, and pour the mcdtre dlidtel either over, under, or into whatever meat or fish you please. MAlTRE D'HOTEL, Lifi. Put into a saucepan J lb. of butter, a tea-spoonful of flour, parsley and scallions chopped small, salt, ■whole pepper, and two ladlesful of water ; set it on the fire only just as it is wanted, stir it like a white sauce, and if it be too thick put in a little lemon juice and water. This sauce should be of the same consistence as white sauce. MAIZE. See Indian Meal. MAIZE, or Indian Coen, like the other' cer^alia, belongs to the natural family Gra- minecB, being neither more nor less than a gigantic grass. It is annual and herbaceous; the root is fibrous; the stems rise to the height of from four to ten feet, and, like other grasses, are furnished with knots at intervals. A great number of varieties are cultivated, differing in the size, hardness, number, and colour of the grains ; the form of the spikes or ears ; and, w'hat is a very important circum- stance to the human family, in the time re- quired to bring them to maturity. Some varieties require five months from the time of sprouting for the perfect maturity of the grains, while a period of six weeks is sufficient for others. It is usually ranked the third grain in point of utility, next after rice and wheat. In some parts of America two crops are ob- tained in a season; but, as it is found to e-\baust the soil very soon, it is usually planted upon the same piece of ground only after an interval of five or six years. It succeeds best in a light and slightly humid soil. The spikes or ears are gathered by hand, and the husks, when perfectly dry, stripped off, and, together with the stalks, laid by for winter fodder, whilst the ears are conveyed to the granary. The gi'een stems and leaves abound in nu- tritious matter for cattle. The corn, when well dried, will keep good for several years, and preserve its capability of germination. It is eaten in various manners in different coun- tries, and forms a wholesome and substantial aliment. Domestic animals of eveiy kind are also extremely fond of it. According to Rum- ford it is, next to wheat, the most nutritious grain. Mixed with rye meal it forms the common brown bread of England ; mixed with water alone it makes a very palatable species of extemporaneous bread. MALAGA. The wines of Malaga are similar to Sherry, but very inferior in flavour, and retain a sweet taste till they are two years old. The old Moimtain, or Siveel Malaga, which was formerly so much in demand, and formed the chief export of Malaga, is now almost out of fashion throughout the world, and is very little made. Pedro Ximenes is a white sweet wine, made from the grape of that name, and, mixed with a small portion of Muscat, gives it the flavour of a Muscat wine. There are two kinds of Muscats—Muscat de Malaga and Muscat de Larmes. The sole diffei'ence between this wine and the Mountain is, that the latter is mixed with a portion of " must" which has been boiled down to one-third. There is also a large quan- tity of dry wine made in the district similar to that of Xeres, but much inferior, and is sold under that name, or shipped to Cadiz to be mixed along with the Sherries. The difference in the making of sweet and diy wines is, that when the grapes are intended for the former they are spread out for three or four days in the sun before they are pressed. MALARIA. See Air, Contagion, Drainage, and Fumigation. MALLOW, MARSH {Althcsa officinalis). This plant is valuable as an emollient, from the great quantity of mucilage which abounds in all its parts, but particulai'ly in the roots. These are about the thickness of a finger, and from a foot to a foot and a half in length. They are collected in autumn from plants at least two years old, and then dried ; the outer skin is removed, and they are thus sent to market. The virtues which the roots and leaves contain are exclusively those of a demul- cent and emollient in diseases attended with pain, irritation, and inflammation of the mucous membrane. It is formed into a decoction, and