[ 260 J OAK NUT BURTenance must tlien consist of such articles as milk, coffee, tea, chocolate, cocoa, bread, fruit, beef, mutton, venison, the meat of young animals, fowl, fish, together with a proper mixture of vegetables. The food should rather be fre- quently administered, and a little at a time, than in a large quantity. Though malt liquor, wine, or spirit sufficiently weakened with water, must in such cases form a part of the diet, they are to be used with moderation. The objects constituting generous diet are such as tea with cream and sugar, coffee, chocolate, salep, sago, arrowroot with wine, chicken broth, beef tea, soup, water, acidulated liquids, malt liquor, wine, and spirituous com- positions. They are also such as milk, cheese, butter, farinaceous substances, vegetables, spicy plants, fruit, sugar, and condiments. The solid animal substances are such as beef, mutton, hare, venison, lamb, veal, sucking pig, and rabbit. They are, too, such as goose, duck, chicken, turkey, pigeon, grouse, pheasant, par- tridge, woodcock, snipe, lapwing, plover, thrush, lark, ortolan, and sparrow. Fish constituting generous diet are such as cod fish, whiting, haddock, skate, sole, turbot, perch, salmon, trout, barbel, bardotte, and gudgeon. Shell fish, such as lobster, crab, oyster, muscle, cockle, limpet, whelk, clam, and turtle, may also be regarded as entering into its composition. Diseases in which suitable articles of nutri- tious diet become proper are such as atrophy, dropsy, consumptive disorders, convulsive and spasmodic affections, chi'onic ulcerous diseases, low febrile complaints, profuse discharges of blood and of the customaiy evacuations, palsy, gout, and nervous disorders. The other natural powers, as temperature, air, and exercise, such as act on the organs of sense or influence the mind, should aid the curative intention. NUTS. Almonds, walnuts, hazel nuts, and nuts in general are extremely difiicult of diges- tion, on account of the oil they contain, which readily turns acrid and rancid on the stomach, and occasions the heartburn. Bilious indi- viduals should by no means eat them; and there is nothing so absurd as to administer almond milk as a common diet drink to febrile patients. This milk consists altogether of oily and almost insoluble parts, which heat and vitiate the stomach, stimulate the bile, and are easily decomposed from the water with which they are mixed. It' quickly spoils—frequently, indeed, before it is introduced into the stomach; it is not in the least degree cooling; and its nourishing quality is very improperly employed in fevers, and all those diseases which are attended with debility of the alimentary canal. Nuts and almonds ought to be eaten only while fresh, and when the skin, which is ex- tremely astringent and unwholesome, can be removed. They should be well chewed, and eaten with salt; for every piece swallowed entire is indigestible, and the salt renders them miscible with our fluids as a saponaceous mass. If eaten in large quantities they remain in the stomach, cannot be expelled by any medicine, and produce alarming and sometimes fatal dis- orders. In general they occasion difficult breathing, vomiting, and complaints in the bowels, which have been observed to be very common in those autumns that were productive of great quantities of nuts. NUTS: To Peeseeve, Put the nuts in their husks into a large earthenware pan, and when filled with nuts place it in a damp cellar, with a board to cover it. Some people strew salt among the nuts. NUTS, PRALINEES. Take 1 lb. of Spanish nuts, take them out of their shells, and put them into a pan, with 1 lb. of loaf sugar and a little water; let them boil till they begin to sparkle, then take them off the fire, and stir them well with a wooden spoon till you perceive the sugar turns gravelly; then set them again over a slow fire to dissolve the sugar, keep stir- ring, that the sugar may stick to the nuts, and when you see them turn reddish, and are well covered with sugar, take them off, pour them into a sieve, cover them with a clean cloth, and put them into a stove. This will preserve their gloss O. OAK. The various species of oak are re- markable for their powerfully astringent pi'o- perties, for the colouring matters they contain, and for their various other uses in the arts, manufactures, medicine, and domestic economy. The common oak [Quercus pedunculata) is that which is met with so plentifully in this country ; but there is also another species called red oak, chestnut oak, or durmast (Q. sessiliflora). The former is distinguished by having no footstalks to its leaves, and by its fruit being borne on long stalks ; the latter by its leaves having footstalks sometimes nearly an inch long, and by its fruit being seated close on the branch without any stalk at all. The latter is not nearly so common as the former, but there are parts of the country where it is found in considerable quantity. As these two species closely resemble each other in their properties, products, and uses, we shall not consider them apart, but regard the observations about to be made as referable to both, with this important exception —that the timber of Q. seasUiflora is infinitely