THE HOUSEHOLD ENCYCLOPJ^DIA. GRA GRATE. See Ash Pit and Fieeplack. GRATEFUL PUDDING. Take lib of flour, and as much white bread grated; next beat eight yolks and four whites of eggs with a pint of new milk, into which stir the bread, flour, 1 lb. of stoned raisins, the same of currants, | lb. of sugar, and a little beaten ginger. Mix these ingredients well together, and either boil or bake the pudding. GRATIN. Cut i lb. of fillet of veal into dice, and put them into a stewpan, with a piece of butter, a few mushrooms, parsley, shallots (chopped small), salt, pepper, and spices; stir them up with a wooden spoon, and when the meat has been on the fire about a quarter of an hour take the drain off the butter, mince the veal, &c., very small, and put it into a mortar, w;ith fifteen fowl or game livers, well washed, dried, parboiled, and all the bitter parts taken out, and pound them, adding at times as much panado as you have meat. Boil some calf's udder, trim and remove all the skin when cold, put in about one- third of the quantity of meat, and pound them together, adding one at a time three yolks and three whole eggs ; season with salt, pepper, and spices. When well pounded set it by in an earthen pan for use. • GRAVEL and Stone. A fit of the gravel is atteTided with a fixed acute pain in the loins; the thigh on the affected side is benumbed ; there is also nausea and vomiting, and some- times a slight suppression of urine ; and, as the irritating matter removes from the kidney down into the urethra, it sometimes produces such pain as to bring on faintings and convulsive fits. The symptoms of gravel often resemble those of inflammation of the kidneys ; but the reddish, brown sand deposition, or very fine powder of the same colour, seen in the urine on becoming cold, will show the difference. VOL. II. GRA When stones are formed in the kidneys or bladder all attempts hitherto to dissolve them have proved ineffectual, and the disease in males is only to be radically cured by the opera- tion of lithotrity or lithotomy. In females, however, stones of moderate size, as well as ex- traneous substances that have accidentally escaped from the urethra into the bladder, have been extracted therefrom by means of dilating the passage with a bougie. When the preference is given to a palliative mode of treatment instead of the operation, lithontriptics, that is, such medicines as have the supposed power of dissolving stones formed in the urinary organs, must be used to prevent the further increase of calculous matter, among which the fixed alkali appears to be the most powerful, used either in its caustic or mild state ; e.g., take solution of potass, from 20 to 30 drops three times a day in a tea-cupful of veal broth. The dose may be somewhat gradu- ally increased beyond this extent. Take car- bonate of soda, from 1 scruple to i drachm, twice or thrice a day. Or, take aerated potass, 2 drachms, twice a day, dissolved in half a pint of veal broth or distilled water, to which a tea- spoonful of brandy may be added, should it prove cold to the stomach ; or, in the event of much irritation of the urinary passages, a few drops of opium may be added, and discontinued when the pain ceases. Or, take soap pills, 10 grains for a dose night and morning; or, lima water, 1 pint daily, mixed with milk; or, soda water, i pint two or three times a day. In the acute fit of the gravel, where inflam- mation of the kidneys comes on, or is to be apprehended, bleeding, according to the age of the patient, should be early adopted, after which he should be put into a warm bath, and when taken out, flannel cloths wrung out B