HOU [ 50 ] HOU situate, &c., on the, &c., now next ensuing. Dated, &c. John White. To Me. William Brown, tenant. It should he ohsen'ed that the notice must he served by another person, and not by either of the principals, and a copy of the notice should be kept by the witness who serves the original. If arrangements can be so made it is more desirable that a few days should elapse between the tenant leaving and your succeeding. This may be effected when there is a good under- standing, provided either of the houses is vacant, for it is shai'p work when four tenants are obliged to remove and follow up on Michaelmas day. It is now generally the case that the fixtures belong to the landlord ; when they do not there is often a difficulty, and if required to be taken they must be paid for promptly, which is not convenient in every case. Moreover, they may not be such as you would wish to purchase. If the house suits you in other respects, and the fixtures are to be taken for a certain sum, and the landlord will not buy them, you must judge whether such an arrangement will suit your •views. The fairest and most common mode is to take them at valuation, in which case you had better employ the tradesman who serves you ■with furniture to make these and all other ari'angements for the disposal of your own, and the purchase of the new fixtm'es, and he becomes responsible for the payment. It is deskable to part with and also to take grates, boilers, bells, and blinds, even if you dispose of your own at half value, and give a long price for the others, because the removal and fitting of these things come to nearly as much as the cost. Grates, for instance, that can be bought for twelve or fourteen shillings will cost from five to seven shillings in setting. Cai-pets and floor cloths are some- times to be got cheap, and so that they are suitable for the purpose it is for the interest of both parties that they should remain when fitted. We would by all means recommend the em- ployment of an upholsterer to pack and remove the furniture. He will lend some cases, in which books, glass, earthenware, &c., may be packed, a day or two before the removal; and these and all other articles, such as linen, clothes, &c., not in immediate use, may be dis- posed of out of the way, so as to facilitate matters. Glass and china are best removed by hand, if the distance is not too far : the jarring of the van will break them if not carefully packed. Plate-can be taken in the conveyance which removes the family, and you should start from the house just after the vans with your furniture have left, so as to arrive at your new residence before them in time to receive the goods. Many persons, with the idea of saving a few shillings, undertake to pack their furniture with the aid of a servant or some neighbour, the consequence of which generally is that they are chafed and damaged to a greater extent than would pay persons who understand the business. The furniture of an eight-roomed house may be placed on two vans, and so that the distance is not more than ten or fifteen miles the process may be completed, all expenses of turnpikes, bars, &c., included, for about three pounds. HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. Fore- most in this is keeping a correct account of your income and expenditure. {See Accounts.) To enter into minute details of management would require a large space, and even if a volume were occupied by them the directions would be applicable only to a portion of society. We shall, therefore, recommend to our readers the perusal of Mrs. Parkes' book called " Domestic Duties," and content ourselves by extracting the following general hints from "The Maga- zine of Domestic Economy : "— The spring is more particularly the time for house-cleaning and bleaching linen, &c., though, of course, these matters require attention in every month of the year; and, as a servant has been known to begin scrubbing stairs from the bottom upwards, a few remarks on these common subjects may not be useless. Begin at the top of the house. First take up the carpets, and if they require it send them at once to be scoured, that they may be ready to replace by the time the rooms are cleaned. Some persons object to send cai-pets and other things to a scourer, as their substance is in some degree injured by the process. They may be well cleaned by washing them with soda and water, after having been taken up and well beaten, and nailed down again. Remove all the furniture out of the room, have the chimneys swept where fires have been in use, then scour the grates, &c. ; wrap old towels (which should be set aside for such pur- poses) round the bristles of the broom, and sweep carefully and lightly the ceiling and paper ; then with a flannel or sponge, which is preferable, and soap and water, wash all the paint well, and as fast as one person wets let another follow with linen rags, and wipe the paint per- fectly dry ; let the windows be cleaned ; and, lastly, scrub the floor. The furniture should be well rubbed before it is replaced. It is a good plan to have the paper swept evei-y three or four months. If the curtains and hangings are moreen it is better to take them down for the summer months, and after a thorough shaking and brushing to pin them up in paper, linen, or silk, with camphor, which is the best, cleanest, and most agreeable preservative from moths. Some persons use powdered black pepper,