[ 314 PER PEP also made of gum, magnesia, sugar, and oil of peppermint. PEPPERMINT, ESSENCE OF. Oil ot peppermint, 1 oz.; herb peppermint, i oz.; spirit of wine, 1 pint. Digest for a -week, or until sufficiently coloured. Palish green, and very strong of the peppermint. Essence of peppermint is not conceived to be good by the ignorant unless it has a pale tint of green, which they presume is a proof of its being genuine. The most harmless way is to steep a Kttle of the green peppermint in the spirit for this purpose as above; or, if this is not at hand, a little parsley will do equally as well, and, in fact, improve the flavour. Some persons use spinach for the same purpose, and others add a few grains of sap-green, dissolved in a spoonful of hot water. All these are quite innocent. The practice of using cupreous salts, adopted by some lazy and unprincipled makers, is unpardonable, and admits of no excuse, even a lame one, as not the least advantage, either of convenience, or cost, or appearance, results from such a practice; while the colouring matter, though small in quantity, is nevertheless suffi- cient to impart a noxious quality to the liquor. This fraud may be detected by the addition of liquor of ammonia in excess. Essence of peppermint is cordial, stimulant, and stomachic. A few drops on sugar, or mixed with water or wine, is an excellent remedy in flatulence, colic, sickness, &c. It is also used as a flavouring. Dose, 10 drops to a tea- spoonful.—(Cooley's Cyclopaidia.) PEPPERMINT WATER. Your pepper- mint must be gathered when it is full grown, and before it seeds. Cut it in short lengths, fill your still with it, and cover it with water; then make a good fire under it, and when it is nearly boiling, and the still begins to drop, if your fire be too hot, draw a little from under it as you see occasion, to keep it from boiling over, or your water will be muddy. The slower your still drops the clearer and stronger will be your water; but do not spend it too far. The next day bottle it, and let it stand three or lour days to take off the fiery taste ; then cork it well, and it will keep a long time. PEPTICS. See Appetite, Dvspepsia, and Indigestion. PERCH are not esteemed so much as carp and tench, but they are most delicate fish. Their freshness may be ascertained by the live- liness of their eyes and the stiffness of their fins. Perch do not preserve so good a flavour when stewed as wiaen dressed in any other way. They are is in season in the months of October and November, and may be chosen by the same tests as the Carp. PERCH: To Braise. Take off the skin and fins, ana bi-aise it; ser%'e it with any butter sauce, and garnish with lemon. Or, cook as above, and serve it in green sauce, or in a matelote. PERCH, BOILED. Set the perch on the fire in cold water, with plenty of salt. As soon as they boil skim them well, place them aside to simmer till done, and serve them with anchovy sauce, or with melted butter and soy. ■pERCH IN COURT BOUILLON. Hav- ing cleaned your perch and rejected their gills, wash them well in vinegar, and then put them into a saucepan, with some butter, sweet herbs, small white onions, and white wine; stew them till done, drain, and serve them dry on a napkin folded in a dish, PERCH FRIED IN A MARINADE. Scale and cut off' the fillets of six perch without any bone, and let them soak ten minutes in a marinade of half vinegar, half water, carrots, onions, a bay leaf, some peppercorns, salt, and a clove of garlic. A few minutes before you wish to serve them take them out of the marinade, shake them in flour, and fry them quickly in clear lard. When free from the fat place them on a dish, with good strong butter sauce under them, into which put a table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar: when very hot pour it belween the fish. PERCH, STEWED. Having thoroughly cleaned and taken out the gills, put j'our perch into a stewpan, wich a sliced onion, a carrot, a bay leaf, parsley, salt, and a little water. When done drain them, take off' the scales and skins carefully, place the fins at equal distances in the body, and serve them covered with a buttered sauce, PERCH AU WATER SOUCHET. Cut some parsley roots in small pieces, which put i n a sufficient quantity of water to boil what perch you may have ; add a bunch of parsley aud some salt. When the roots are quite done put in the perch, well scaled and cleaned, for ten minutes. In the meantime scald some parsley leaves in salt and water ; tben drain the perch, place them in a tureen, with the parsley roots and leaves ; strain the liquor over them, and serve. Slices of bread and butter should be sent to table to eat with them, PERCH WITH WINE. Having scaled and taken out the gills, put the perch into a stewpan, with equal quantities of stock and white wine, a bay leaf, a clove of garlic, a bunch of parsley and scallions, two cloves, and some salt. When done take out the fish, and strain off' the liquor, the dregs of which mix with some butter and a little flour; beat these up, set them on the fire, stirring till quite done, adding pepper, grated nutmeg, and a ball of anchovy