WOR WO u [ 5T1 ] raedy against tlie round and maw-worms, when taken in doses sufficient to move the bowels ; and used as a clyster it will have a similar effect to the latter. WORMWOOD. Common wormwood {Arte- misia absinthium) is a native of Britain, and is frequent in almost every part of Europe, in rocky places, by roadsides, among rubbish ; and it is cultivated in the herb gardens of England for its medicinal properties. The leaves and flowering tops are bitter, and the roots are warm and aromatic ; but it is the former which are most employed. They should be gathered in July and August, when the plant is in flower, and then dried, to be had in reserve when wanted. The whole plant has a strong pene- trating odour, with an extremely bitter and aromatic taste, and these properties are ex- tracted by water or alcohol. It yields by dis- tillation a dark green volatile oil, on which the odour depends, and which has been used both externally and internally to destroy worms. The quantity of oil the plants yield depends very much on soil and season, there being instances where 10 lbs. of the plant have yielded 2 ozs. of oil, and others where 20 lbs. gave little more than 1 oz. The constituents of the plant, according to Braconnot, are—a very bitter and an almost insipid azotised matter, 26; an excessively bitter resinous substance, i'4; a green volatile oil, 0-09; chlorophyl, a trace ; albumen, 7 5 ; starch, 1 ; saline matters, 7 5 ; and lignin, .55 parts. The same chemist discovered among the saline matters an acid which he thought to be peculiar, and which he called ahsinthic acid, but it was subsequently found to be identical with succinic acid. The substance formerly called salt of %vormwood is impure carbonate of potassa, obtained by lixivi- ating the ashes of the plant. Gaventou obtained a very bitter, imperfectly crystallisable substance, which he considered as the active principle, and proposed for it the name of ahsinthin. The properties of wormwood are those of a powerful tonic and stimulant. It re-animates the en- feebled action of the stomach, whether arising from chronic leucorrhoea, or amenorrlioea depend- ent on debilitating causes; and for weakened conditions of the stomach generally it formerly enjoyed a specific reputation. Before the in- troduction of Peruvian bark it was administered in the ti-eatment of intermittents. A narcotic property is supposed to reside in the volatile oil, which occasions headache, and, when long continued, produces a disordered state of the nervous system ; and therefore, when long used or employed in large doses, the decoction is preferable to the infusion or powder. Linnajus mentions two cases wherein an essence made from the plant, and taken for a considerable time, prevented the formation of stones in the kidneys and bladder, the patients forbearing the use of wine and acids. An infusion of it given to women nursing makes the milk bitter, and it gives a bitterness to the flesh of sheep which feed upon it. The plant steeped in boiling water, and repeatedly applied to a bruise, will remove pain in a short time, and prevent the swelling and discoloration of the part. The leaves put into sour beer destroy the acescency; they resist putrefaction, and hence their use in antiseptic fomentations. The whole plant is considered vermifuge, and as such has long been a popular remedy in this country: hence the derivation of the English name. In Ger- many it is used in making beer, as a substitute for the hop; and if put into beer dui'ing summer it prevents it from turning sour. In Switzerland a liqueur called creme d'absinthe is prepai-ed with it, and also with A. mutellina and A. spicata, which is much esteemed, notwith- standing its bitter flavour, as an excellent stomachic. A syrup is also prepared from the plant, which is used in France as a stomachic and vei'mifuge. WORMWOOD CREAM. Distil in the bain-marie the zests of two oranges and -J lb. of fi'esh-gathered wormwood tops in a gallon of bi'andy, which will produce nearly half the quantity of liquor. Dissolve 4 lbs. of sugar in as many pints of filtered river water, mix this syrup with the liquor, run it through a jelly bag, and bottle it. WOUNDS. {See Cuts and Ulcers.) In a work of this nature it will be impossible that we can treat of every kind of wound to which the human body is liable; but as recent wounds arise, for the most part, from accidents, we shall direct the reader's attention to those which are most common. And here, as in other accidents, presence of mind is of essential im- portance. Were a knowledge of the situation of the blood-vessels, of the extremities, and the use of the tourniquet more general, it could not fail of proving highly beneficial to mankind. The vessels, or tubes, which proceed from the heart to convey the blood to all pai'ts of the body, are called arteries. From the power with which the heart propels the blood through this system of vessels it happens that, when- ever they are wounded, the blood flows rapidly and in jerks fi'om the wounded part. They divide, to be distributed to parts from the trunk, like the branches of a tree from the body ; so that, on pressing together the sides of any trunk, the flow of blood into the branches, beyond the compressed part, is prevented. The vessels which return the blood to the heart are named veins. In these the blood