POT [ ] POT pinch of salt, and set the saucepan on a moderate fire, stirring constantly. The moment it begins to thicken take it off, that it may more readily acquire consistence ; then replace it on the stove, and dry it for a few minutes ; then remove it again, and mix with it the yolks of sixteen eggs, which should reduce it to the consistence of creme patissiere: if not, pour in the infusion which was reserved. Having in the interim whipped the sixteen whites to a strong froth, stir it as lightly as possible into the above ; make the whole quite hot, pour it into a crou- stade, and set it in a moderate oven for an hour or an hour and a half. Serve it the instant it is brought from the oven, either glazed or not, according to your taste. POTATO FRITTERS. Wash and pare some potatoes ; cut them into slices, which soak half an hour in brandy, with the rind of a lemon in it; then drain, dip them in batter, fi-y them of a nice colour, and drain them again ; place the fritters in a dish, sprinkle sugar over, and serve them hot. POTATO JELLY is made of potato flour, only boiling water must be poured upon it; but care must be taken that it be absolutely boiling, or the complete change into jelly will not take i place, it does not take many minutes to thus change a raw potato into this substance, which is not only highly nutritive, but extremely agreeable to the palate when flavoured with a little sugar, nutmeg, and white wine. POTATO PIE. Skin some potatoes, and cut them into slices; season them, and also some mutton, beef, pork, or veal. Put into your dish alternate layers of meat and potatoes until the dish is filled. POTATO PUDDING. Having thoroughly boiled 2 lbs. of potatoes, peel and pound them \rell, and then mix them with i lb. of melted butter, the same of powder sugar, and six eggs; beat the whole well; then add a handful of flour and a glass of white wine; stir these in, tie in a buttered cloth, and boil it for half an hour. POTATO ROLLS. Take a dozen large potatoes, and roast them in hot ashes. When thoroughly done pare and remove all those parts which may be at all coloured by the heat, and of the remainder weigh | lb., which put into a mortar, with ^ lb. of butter, and beat them together well; then add 4 ozs. of powder sugar, 2 ozs. of sifted flour, the yolks of two eggs, and a grain of salt; pound ail these to- gether to a fine paste, flour a slab, lay the paste on it, and having rolled it out, cut it into four equal parts; divide these again into four bits the size of a walnut, which roll into balls, or any other form you like better; place them on a slightly buttered baking plate, dorez, and bake them in a moderate oven. Let them be of a nice colour, and dry a little that they may be crisp. POTATO SOUFFLfi. Wash and pick 15lbs. of the best floury potatoes, which dilute with a pint of cream and the yolks of four eggs ; add 6 ozs. of sugar, 2 ozs. of butter, and a little shred lemon- peel ; set this mixture on the fire, stirring till it has boiled up several times ; then take it off", and when cold mix in the yolks of six eggs, or more if necessary. Whip six whites of eggs as for biscuits, and stir them lightly in the souffle, which put iuto a silver dish, and finish as usual. POTATO STARCH may be made in as large a quantity, and as good, from frozen potatoes as any other. This starch is friable, heavy, sinking in water, and has shining particles in it. One hundred pounds of potatoes yield 10 lbs. of starch. Prepared and used as arrow- root. POTATO YEAST. Boil some potatoes well, peel and rub them in a mortar, and add as much water as will make it the thickness of a pudding paste ; strain, and when of a proper heat add to every pound 2 ozs. of sugar and two spoonsful of beer yeast. let it ferment twenty-four hours in a warm place. A pound of potatoes will make a quart of yeast: it will keep two or three months. In using this yeast it requires double the quantity of beer yeast, and must be worked into the dough. If there be no dislike to potatoes in bread, which they make light and white, a fourth of the potatoes to the quantity of flour to be used may be prepared, and the yeast added to them some hours before. This makes excellent scones upon the girdle—a ready, nice breakfast bread where lighting an oven would be troublesome. POTATOES: To Bojl. Pare, wash, and throw them into a pan of cold water; then put them on the fire to boil in a clean pot, with sufficient cold water to cover them, and sprinkle over a little salt; let them boil slowly (uncovered) till you can pass a fork through them, pour off the water, and set them where they will keep hot till wanted. When done in this way they are very mealy and dry. Potatoes, either boiled or roasted, should never be covered to keep them hot. POTATOES : To Steam. Potatoes are often spoiled by bad cooking. They are always best steamed, and nothing is more useful for cottagers than a potato steamer, which may be had for three or four shillings. It is only a pan made in two parts : the upper part has holes in the bottom, and fits into the lower part. You put the water in the lower division, and the steam from the broth will dress the potatoes; or, instead of the broth, you may put in a pudding and some water, so that the pudding will be