LAM [ 117 ] LAM LAMB, SLICES OF (Fried). Cut some cold lamb into slices ; season and fry them. When done put them into a dish, and pour over them melted butter; then put a little flour into a saucepan, with some beef stock and a little walnut pickle ; let this boil, and keep stirring. Serve the slices of lamb in this sauce, and garnish with fried parsley. LAMB STEAKS, FRIED. Fry them of the nicest brown, and when served throw over them a good quantity of crumbs of bread fried, and crisped parsley.; or you may season and broil them in buttered papers, either with crumbs and herbs, or without, according to LAMB SWEETBREADS (1). These parts of lamb are generally dressed the same as veal sweetbreads. The following, however, belongs rather to those of lamb:—Butter a saucepan, and put in the sweetbreads, and two spoonsful of jelly; cover them with a buttered paper, put fire above and below, and stew them thus for half an hour; then serve them with a puree of fowls or endive, or any other sauce you think proper. LAMB SWEETBREADS (2). Blanch your sweetbreads, and put them into cold water for a little while ; then put them into a stewpan, with a ladleful of stock, some pepper, salt, a small bunch of young onions, and a blade of mace; stir in a bit of butter, with some flour, and stew half an hour. Have ready two or three eggs beaten in cream, with a little minced parsley and grated nutmeg ; put in some boiled as-> paragus tops, and add tbem to the other things. It must not boil after the cream is put in, but make it hot, and stir it well all the time. Be very careful that it does not curdle ; add some lemon or orange juice, and then serve. ! LAMB TENDONS WITH ASPARAGUS, f Take two breasts of lamb, braise them, and when done lay them between two dishes, with a weight on the top. As soon as they are cold cut them in pieces, leaving on the end of the bone, like cutlets ; put them into a tossing-j>an, with a piece of glaze and a spoonful of con- I somme, and simmer them till they are completely I covered with the glaze. Have ready a bundle j of asparagus, choosing the most tender heads, I and boil them in the usual way in salt and water i for about ten minutes; skim, and when done j drain them on a sieve; then fry them lightly in I a little butter, Allemande, and a small quantity of sugar. Dish the tendons en couronne, with the asparagus heads in the centre ; glaze and serve them. LAMB, TIME FOR COOKING. A quarter of an hour is generally allowed to each pound of meat. A leg of lamb of 5 lbs. wfll, therefore, take an hour and a quarter to roast or boil, and other joints in the same proportion. Serve either with salad, pickles, broccoli, cauliflowers, French beans, peas, potatoes, or cucumbers, raw or stewed. LAMBS'BRAIN CAKES. Take the brains, and remove any veins, &c., that may be amonj: them; chop well with a knife, and add salt, nutmeg, or pepper, a little raw egg, and flour enough to make them stick together; mix well, make into cakes about the size of the top of a wine-glass, and fry them brown on both sides with lard. LAMBS' BRAINS are generally reckoned more delicate than those of sheep. They are mostlv prepared in the same manner. LAMBS' BRAINS A LA MAYONNAISE. Take eight lambs' brains, and, having washed and prepared them for dressing in the same way as calves' brains, blanch and then drain them in a cloth, lay them on a dish, with a tongue d Vicariate, cut like cockscombs, between each brain ; place hai'd eggs, gherkins, a pretty firm mayonnaise, and a glass of ravigote in the centre, and garnish your dish with pieces of jelly. LAMBS' EARS WITH SORREL. Take about a dozen lambs' ears (this quantity will make a small dish), and braise them till tender. Take a large handful of sorrel, chop it a little, and stew it in a spoonful of stock with a small bit of butter; pour in a small ladleful of cullis, some grated nutmeg, and a little pepper and salt; stew for a minute, twist up the ears nicely, and serve. LAMBS'EARS, STUFFED. Take a dozen lambs' ears, and soak and scald them. When cold diy, singe, and cook them in a blanc for an hour and a half; drains and fill them with a farce ctdte. Put the ears into melted butter, and roll them in bread crumbs; break four eggs into the butter, with salt and pepper; beat all up together, and dip the ears into it; then roll them again in bread crumbs, and fry them of a nice colour. Take care your pan is not too hot. Drain the ears well, and serve them up with fried parsley. LAMBS' FEET. Clean, well wash, and blanch six lambs' feet; stew them till they become tender in some white stock, with a slice of lean ham, an onion, some parsley, thyme, two bla,des of mace, a little whole pepper, and a few mushrooms. Befove serving strain the sauce, and thicken it with flour, butter, and half a pint of cream; boil it a quarter of an hour, add the feet, and the juice of half a small lemon. Garnish with sippets of thin toasted bread cut into a three-cornered shape. LAMBS' FEET EN CARTOUCHES. Prepare some sweet herbs en papillotes, and having cooked the feet in a blanc, put them to the herbs whilst they are hot; give them two or three boils, squeeze the juice of a lemoii