LAM LAM C 118 1 over them, and leave them to cool. Cut some pieces of paper, each large enough to hold one of the feet; rub oil over the inside, and lay the feet on the pieces of oiled paper, with the herbs put round and in the hollow parts ; wrap each in a thin slice of bacon, over which fold the paper so as to inclose them completely, and broil them thus over a slow but clear fire for half an hour. Serve them either dry or with clear gravy. LAMBS' FEET AU GRATIN. Take a dozen lambs' feet, and set them to stew a la braise, with eighteen or twenty small onions. Whilst they are stewing make a gratin with some bread crumbs, a little scraped cheese, a hit of butter, and the yolks of three eggs; mix the whole together, and spread it over the bottom of your dish, setting it upon a stove, or on a chafing-dish over a slow fire, till it adheres to the bottom; then put the lambs' feet and the small onions intermixed upon a gratin, let the whole simmer a little over the fire, drain off the fat, and serve with a good sauce poured over. LAMBS' FEET EN MARINADE. The feet being blanched as usual, soak them in a marinade, or, in case you have none, in half a glass of vinegar, with salt and pepper. After they have lain a sufficient time drain, dip them in a batter, and fry them of a nice colour ; then lay them on a cloth to drain. Serve with fried parsley over them. LAMBS' FEET, STUFFED. Prepare your feet in the usual manner; but, before you blanch them, fill them with a fowl quenelle, with the addition of a little grated nutmeg and sweet herbs shred small. Sew this farce in, and then put the feet into boiling water for five minutes ; let them cool, dry, and singe them. Make a thick blauc, put the feet in it, and simmer them for about two hours; then drain, trim, and serve them with sauce Hollandaise. LAMB'S FRY. This consists of the sweet- breads, skirts, and a portion of the liver. Flour and season it, and fry plain, or dip the fry in egg, and strew crumbs over it hefore fiying. Serve fried parsley with it, and either of the sauces directed for cutlets. LAMB'S HEAD AND PLUCK (Italian Way). Choose a fine lamb's head, with the ap- purtenances, the harslet, and the trotters. First take out the jaw-bones from the head, and cut off the end of the muzzle ; then throw the head and harslet into a large pan, and pump some water upon them: let the pan be nearly full. Set a deep stewpan on the fire, and put in the head and harslet, with fresh cold water; let them heat a little, stirring them and moving them about, that they may be blanched in every part; then put in the trotters, let the stewpan con- tinue some time longer over the fire, and then take all out. Clean a moderately deep kettle, and lay at the bottom of it some slices of fat bacon cut thinly, and spread so as to cover the entire bottom. Make a seasoning with the leaves of sweet herbs picked from the stalks, and with some sweet basil chopped finely, some onions shred and minced, pepper, salt, and a blade or two of mace, shred and mixed among the rest. Divide this into two parcels, and strew one parcel over the slices of bacon laid at the bottom of the kettle; then lay in the head, harslet, and trotters very carefully, and upon them strew the remainder of the seasoning, only reserving a little. Then lay some slices of bacon over all this, and strew the remaining small quantity of the seasoning over; pour in gently enough water to cover the whole, and and set it over a stove ; let it boil till they are done enough; then remove it from the stove, and carefully take every part up. Prepare the dish for it, but first skin the tongue, split it, and lay it in; then split open the head, and take out the hone, that you may get out the hrains entire. Put the head thus managed and the tongue handsomely in the middle of the dish; cut the liver into four pieces, and the lights into eight, and lay these interchangeably round the head and tongue. When all is thus ready heat some rich gravy, thicken it, and pour it over the whole. LAMB'S HEAD AND PLUCK (Minced) Split the head in half, and blanch it wit the liver, lights, and heart; then chop th heart, and add a little pai'sley, chopped finely a small quantity of shred lemon - peel, au some cullis. Stew it gently till done, and season it; wash the head over, and bake it gently till very tender. When it is to he served up colour it with a salamander; clean the brains in warm water, wipe them diy, dip them in yolks of eggs and bread crumbs, and fry them in boiling lai'd. Put the mince under the head, and the fried brains round it, with rashers ol bacon. ] LAMB'S HEAD SOUP. Choose for this purpose a delicate lamb's head and the feet; put them both into a large earthen pan, and pour upon them a good quantity of boiling water. When they are well scalded clean them, and put them into a small pot; boil them in rich broth for half au hour, then put in the liver, and with it some slices of fat and lean bacon; boil these up for some time, and then put some mutton gravy in a saucepan on the fire to heat. Fry the brains of the lamb with the yolk of an egg and some crumbs of bread, and take care they have a very good colour. All being thus pre- pared, take up the head, and lay it handsomely in a soup dish; put the brains whole, as they are fried, into their places, and pour in the broth, first mixing jvitli it the hot mutton gravy, an