PAS PAS [ 307 ] stiff, then put it into an earthen pan or bowl covered closely, and set it before the fire ten or fifteen minutes. If it appears too soft dredge a little flour in it, and work it till smooth : raise your pies immediately. PASTE A LA MADELEINE. Put into a stewpan 1 lb. of flour, 1 lb. of powder sugar, i lb. of warmed butter, a little orange flower, and si.v eggs, or more if necessary. Mix these together well, and then pour the prepara- tion into one large or several small moulds well buttered; make them smooth at the top, and bake in a gentle oven. PASTE, MEAT, ob SAvouEr. Take 2 lbs. of fine flour, and 1J lb. of good salt butter; break the latter into small pieces, and wash it well in cold water; rub gently togetlier the butter and flour, and mix with it the yolks of three eggs beaten together with a spoon, and nearly a pint of spring water; roll it out, double it in folds three times, and it is ready. PASTE, PUFF (Good). Take 1 lb. of flour, and sift it; 1 lb. of butter, and divide it into four equal parts ; then weigh J lb. of flour to dust it with. Rub one of the quarters of butter into the pound of flour, and mix up with a very little cold water; roll out three times, adding each time a quarter of butter, and dusting with flour. When you cut off from the large roll of dough a piece for one pie, roll out the piece you cut off very thin, dust it with flour, double it in folds, and roll it the thickness of your crust. PASTE, PUFF (Rich). To 1 lb. of flour add f lb. of butter, and mix it in as little water as will make a stiff paste ; roll it out, and lay the butter on in thin slices; dredge it well with flour, double it up, roll it out thin twice, and handle it as little as possible. It is better to roll the butter in it twice. Bake it in a moderately quick oven, or it will not be light. A paste less rich may be made with 2 lbs. of flour and ^ lb. of butter; rub them together, and mix into a paste with a little water, two well-beaten eggs, and a little salt. Fold it up and roll it four times. PASTE PYRAMID. Make a rich puff paste, roll it out a quarter of an inch thick, and cut it into five or seven pieces with scal- loped tin paste cutters which go one within another ; leave the bottom and top pieces entire, and cut a bit out of the centre of the others; bake them of a light brown upon buttered paper placed on tins. When served build them in ft pyramid, laying a different preserved fruit upon each paste, and on the top a whole apricot, with a sprig of myrtle stuck into it, or green- gages ornamented with a bunch of barberries. PASTE FOR RAISED PIES. Take 4 lbs. of flour, 1 lb. of butter, and a little salt; mix these together, adding water a little at a time, taking care not to put too much, as this paste must be made as stiff as possible. When thoroughly mixed give it two or tliree turns, roll it out, and cut it to the shape you want for your pie. Sometimes the butter is melted in warm water, and so mixed with the flour; then.it will not require so much water, and the paste will stand better; but as you work your paste, when you find it gets too cold, warm it a little. The first method of doing it is the best if intended to be eaten. PASTE, RICE (1). Mix together i lb. of sifted ground rice and ^ lb. of fresh butter; work it into a paste with cold water, dredge flour over the paste board and rolling-pin, roll out the paste, and put over it in little pieces another J lb. of butter; fold and roll it out three times, strewing each time a little flour over and under it, as also over the rolling-pin ; cover the tart, and glaze it before being baked. This paste must be eaten the day it is baked. PASTE, RICE (2). Boil in a pint of water i lb. of good rice; drain oil' the water, and pound the rice in a mortal', witli a small piece of butter and a beaten egg; then roll it out to cover any fruit tart. PASTE, SHORT (for Tarts). Take 1 lb. of flour, lay it on a .slab, and in the centre put i lb. of butter, two eggs, a very little salt, and a little water. Mix them lightly together, and continue adding more water till you find it bind. Mix it on a slab a little, and give it two turns: it is then ready for use. PASTE FOR STRINGING TARTS. Mix 1 oz. of fresh butter with your hands in ^ lb. of flour and a little cold water ; rub it between the board and your hand till it begins to string, cut it into small pieces, which roll out and draw into fine strings ; lay them across your tarts in any form you please, and bake them imme- diately. PASTE, SUET. Rub well with i lb. of fresh beef suet, chopped as finely as possible, J lb. of flour and half a tea-spoonful of salt; make it into a stiff paste with cold water, work it well, beat it with the rolling-pin, and roll it out two or three times. This paste answers for any kind of boiled fruit pudding. PASTE, SWEET. Rub into i lb. of flour 5 ozs. of butter, and the same quantity of pounded loaf sugar; add one beaten egg, and as much warm water as will make it into a paste ; roll it out thin for any kind of fruit tart, rub it over with the beaten white of an egg, and sift sugar over it. PASTE, TARTLET. Mix 1 lb. of flour with 6 ozs. of butter, 4 ozs. of sugar, 2 ozs. of almond paste, and the yolk of six eggs. Mix