T 111 [ 408 ] TOO gmger, a sufEcient quantity. Make twelve pills out of each drachm : three to be taken twice a day. Powder. Take of lance-leaved cinchona Lark 1 drachm. Make a powder : to be taken three times a day with milk, peppermint water, or red port wine, and every second hour in the absence of the fits of intermittent fevers. TOOTHACHE. If your tooth is hollow, stop it; that is, fill the hollow with common yellow bees' wax to e.Kclude the air, and keep a piece of the wax in your pocket to replace it when necessary. Having done this, if the pain continues, and the gum is inflamed, hold in your mouth some bread-and-milk poultice very hot. If these remedies fail have the tooth extracted. If the tooth is not decayed take a dose of opening medicine ; and so soon as the pain ceases take a grain of sulphate of quinine, and repeat this dose of the sulphate for three or four mornings following, always taking it whilst free from pain. The following treatment has also been at- tended with success :— When the pain first darts, as it were, into the jaw, as soon as it is ascertained that it does not arise from a decayed tooth, the feet should be bathed in very hot water, the bowels tho- roughly emptied, and a pill containing calomel, tartar emetic, and opium exhibited at bed- time in such proportions as the strength and the habit of the patient admit of and require. A grain of each will be near a medium. As soon as the pain regularly intermits, the Peru- vian bark should be administered during the intervals of ease, in as large doses and as fre- quently repeated as it can be taken, either alone or combined with spirit of turpentine. But if the bark in substance or in decoction nauseate the stomach, the sulphate of quinine, which is the true essence of the bark, may be substituted for it. Bark in every form, however, sometimes proves unavailing, in which cases arsenic has been successfully administered ; but, as this remedy requires a degree of caution which few are disposed to bestow, we would suggest a trial of the subcarbonate of iron, from the powerful influence it has displayed in tic douloureux—a nervous affection, to which rheumatic toothache bears some resemblance. Whatever may be the remedy, it should be exhibited with proper care and caution. The strictest attention ought to be paid to the diet and regimen. Night air, exposure to dew, or to easterly winds ought to be avoided; and when the attack is removed, the use of the head-bath—that is, cold water poured over the head every morning—will be the most effectual means of preventing its recurrence. Its attacks are most prevalent at the season when evening parties commence; and, as it is most common in young females in the better ranks of life, we must ascribe it to the exposure of the unshawled shoulders to currents of air on staircases and landing-places, in those gregarious assemblages of fashion in which, to use the words of a dramatist, our countrywomen " turn their skins to parchment." TOOTH-BRUSH. If this is used employ a very soft brush, avoid coarse tooth powders, and rinse the mouth with tepid water. TORTOISE-SHELL. When combs and ornaments of this material are broken the pieces, it is said, may be thus soldered together:— Bi'ing the edges of the pieces of shell to fit each other, observing to give the same inclination of grain to each; then secure them in a piece of paper, and place them between hot ii'ons or pincers; apply pressure, and let them cool. Take care that the heat is not too great, or it will burn the shell; therefore ti'y the irons first on a piece of white paper. TOUCHMATGH. See Boletus Tinder. TOURTE D'ENTREE. Take a small par- tridge and a small snipe, each cut in halves, two quails, six larks, the loins and legs of a wild rabbit, and four truffles, each cut into five slices; put all these into a pan, with butter and sweet herbs; season them, and set them on the fire. When all above are warmed through take off the pan, and leave them to cool. In the meantime prepare your tourte, and lay the game in the form of a dome, filling up the spaces with the herbs in which the articles were dressed ; cover it in the usual way, and bake it in a brisk oven for an hour and a half. When done pour in some Espagnole, mixed with a fumet of game and truffles. TOUS LES MOIS. This is said to be prepared from the main root of Canna coccinea. It resembles arrowroot in most respects, but rather less of it is required, and the jelly is less transparent and more pasty. It is manufactured chiefly at St. Kitt's. TRACING PAPER. See Copying Paper. TRAGACANTH. See Cement, Gum. TREACLE BEER. See Beer, Treacle. TREACLE PUDDING. Mix together 1 lb. of stoned raisins, i lb. of shred suet, 1 lb. of flour, a pint of milk, a table-spoonful of treacle, grated ginger, and pounded spice. When well stirred up tie it in a floured cloth, and boil it four hours. TRIFLE (1). Cover the bottom of a dish with Naples biscuits and macaroons broke in halves, wet with brandy and white wine poured over them, cover them with patches of jam, and fill the dish with a good custard; then whip up a syllabub, drain the froth on a sieve, put it ou the custard, and strew comfits over all.