RAI EAI [ 383 ] and other impurities it can be freed by a process hereafter described. Wherever it can be ob- tained pure, or rendered so, it is water in tlie very best form. To the gardener it is all but indispensable; his plants can scarcely be in health -without it; but everything flourishes, particularly the beautiful gems of the parterre and flov^er-garden, if an ample supply of this gift of nature be at his command. The house- wife and laundress are, perhaps, more indebted to it for their immediate comfort than any other persons, because of its great softness, and the facility which it consequently affords to the many important operations in which they may employ it. All other water contains a greater or less proportion of chemical solutions of lime, which render them hard, or, to speak more correctly, tend to decompose soap, and to deposit that mineral matter upon the skin which induces a roughness at the least, if not a liability to chap. Rain water is generally supposed to be un- pleasant to the palate. If, however, it be care- fully collected in the first instance, and properly filtrated, it is found by experience to be the pleasantest water that can be drunk. We were in the habit, some few years since, of visiting a family where the rain from the roofs was caused to pass through a canvas strainer, in texture like that of a cheese-cloth, into the water-butt; there it deposited any impurities which were not caught by the cloth, and every day a few gallons were filtrated by one of the newly invented portable apparatus. The water was perfectly bright and pure ; its flavour (if the term be admissible) was most delicious ; in fact, it was the finest water we ever tasted, not even excepting that of pellucid mountain streams or the lakes. Nothing of the vapid insipidity of common rain water remained, nor will that ever be perceived if the fluid be properly collected and strained. If this meet the eye of a resident of that chalky but most fertile granary of the metro- polis, the Isle of Thanet, at the north-east point of Kent, it will be sufficient to mention a rain- water tank to insure his instant assent to our unqualified assertion, that a greater convenience can scarcely be attached to a homestead. In some parts of Berkshire, also, we shall meet with approvers, because a few tanks are found there; but, with the exception of the two dis- tricts above referred to, the real rain-water tank appears to be scarcely known. It is, therefore, our intention to urge the general adoption of a plan which can be perfected at an expense trifling if compared with the great advantages it secures. The reservoirs or tanks for rain water are generally constructed of a cylindrical form, somewhat resembling a shallow well; they are sunk in the ground, and should be built, with the best bricks, nine inches in thickness. The brickwork will be rendered most secure if it be put together with the best Parker's cement; but good mortar, made up with two or three parts of finely sifted sea-coal ashes, and one part of the very best lime (particularly that from thoroughly burnt limestone), will do extremely well. The internal surface must, however, be accurately and entirely covered with a coating of the cement of at least one-third to one-half of an inch in thickness. From one thousand to five thousand gallons of rain water may thus be collected, and secured from dirt and dust; and if the fluid, in passing into the reservoir, be made to run through a filter, prepared by putting into a deep tub a quantity of well- washed sea or liver sand to the depth of a foot or more, over that a stratum of bruised good charcoal, and finally a layer of clean gravel stones, it will be efl'ectually sweetened, and purified from all extraneous matters. This tub might either be bored at the bottom with an auger-hole, to let the water pass by means of a broad funnel into the tank, or be furnished with a false wooden bottom pierced with holes ; the intervening space, would then be filled with water, which a common tap, passed through a stave just above the true bottom of the tub, could convey away into its underground re- cipient. A tank, we have said, is built in the ground ; the opening at top is always secured either with flat stones or with a brick arched dome, in the centre of which a stone is let in, and fitted in a groove. This stone is movable, and is occa sionally taken up when it is found needful to clean out the tank. But if the purifying filter were employed, the water would be so effectually cleansed that little or no deposit could ever be formed, and it therefore would keep well for a very long period. A few pounds would cover the first expense of a medium-sized tank; and we believe that a sum under ten pounds in the whole would also furnish it with a pump and pipe, by which this purified and salubrious water could be introduced into the dwelling, and be thus always ready to be applied to the several pur- poses of domestic economy to which water, and particularly soft water, is so indispensably re quisite. RAISIN VINEGAR. To every 2 lbs. of Malaga raisins put four quarts of spring water, lay a tile over the bung, and set it in the sun till fit for use. A stone bottle will do as well as a cask. Placing it in the chimney corner, and keeping it there a proper time, will do as well as placing it in the sun.