LAR L AR L 324 ] likewise, in quantity measured one-third more than that burnt from the fir tree; and its specific gravity, on weighing and balancing it with the latter, was as eight to five. It is, however, remarkable that the larch contains more aqueous ingredients than the fir tree, inso- much that five measures of the oily water collected during the combustion of the former yielded, on evaporation, only three ounces and a half of pitch, whereas four measures and a half of the latter produced four ounces. Build- ings erected of larch wood have been known to remain sound for two hundred years, as it is eminently adapted to resist the effects of air and water, while it is exempt from the depreda- tions of the worm: hence it is peculiarly excel- lent for shingles. Lastly, the bark and other parts of this profitable tree have been found by experiment to be proper substitutes for that of the oak. LARD : To Prevent becoming Rakcid. Melt it gently with a little salt, a few whole allspice, and a little suet; then strain it, and it will keep till the time arrives for procuring a fresh supply. LARD : To Render. The leaf lard should be rendered by itself, as it does not take so long as that with the skin on. Cut it up finely, and put it in a clean pot with half a pint of water ; stir it frequently, and let it boil fast at first. When the cracklings are light brown, and float on the top, the lard is nearly done, and should cook slowly. When done strain it into your vessels with a thin cloth put over a cullender. If you put lard in stone or earthen jars it should be cooled first, as there is danger of their cracking. White oak firkins, with ii'on hoops and covers to fit tightly, are good to keep lard in, and if taken care of will last for twenty years. The fat that has the skin on should be cut very small, taking off the skin first. It takes longer to boil than the leaf lai-d, and, as there is more danger of burning, put a pint of water in the pot. The skins should be boiled alone, and will do for soap fat after the lard is out of them. Soak the inside fat all night in salt and water, wash it in the morning, and put it to boil without any water in the pot. It is not so nice as other lard, and should be strained by itself. It does very well for frying. Lard keeps well in large tin vessels with tight covers, and is not apt to mould. LARD, HOG'S. The lard should be care- fully melted in a jar put into a kettle of water, and boiled. Run it into bladders that have been particularly welf cleaned. It is best to have the bladders small, as the lard will keep better; for, after the air reaches it, it becomes rank. Whilst it is melting put in a sprig of rose- mary. LARDER. The larder, or safe, for keeping the meat and other provisions in, both before and after they are cooked, should be large, and, in- deed, sufficiently capacious to contain all the provisions. It should be effectually protected from the sun's rays, and yet have a complete circulation of air all round it if possible. It should be so placed as not to be near the dust- bin or beer casks, or any other place from which dust, or putrid or other bad smells can arise; it should be inclosed all round with fly-wire panels in wood framing; and should be raised above the paving in order to admit air at bottom, and to keep it dry. The roof should be also of fly-wire, and it should be protected from rain by a boarded roof over it. The larder should be lofty, and should have strong iron bearers from one side to the other, with hooks to slide on them, so that the meat may hang above the head ; and there should be shelves all round to put dishes on. A separate safe should be provided for vegetables and fruits, and another for game if there is likely to be any quantity of it. For large larders there should be an inner door, with a space between the doors, to enable the cook to shut the one before she opens the other. For small families one or two iron safes hanging from some beam in the ceiling of the outer kitchen or cellar, or hung in an outhouse, or even in a shady place in the open air, contrived so as to be drawn up out of the way by lines and pulleys when not in use, with one or more shelves in each, and having fly-wire all round, are far better than safes placed against brick walls, as is now generally done.—[Maga- zine of Domestic Economy?\ LARDING. Have ready larding-pins of dif- ferent sizes, according to the article to be done; cut slices of bacon into bits of a proper length quite smooth, and put them into a suitable lai'd- ing-needle, with which pierce the skin and a very little of the meat, leaving t?ie bacon in, and the two ends of equal length outwards. Lard in rows the size you think fit. LARDNER'S PREPARED CHARCOAL. See Charcoal. LARK PIE. Choose a dozen fine larks, and let them be picked, drawn, and trussed. Save the entrails, and chop them to pieces in a wooden bowl; rasp some bacon, and mix it with them ; beat them well up together ; shred some mushrooms and put to this ; add some sage and parsley shred finely, some leaves of sweet herbs chopped, some pepper, a little salt, a blade of bruised mace, and a quarter of a nut- meg. When all are thoroughly mixed to- gether roll it up into a ball, divide it into twelve parts, and put one of them into the body of each lark. Put some crust into a baking pan, and spread oyer it sonae beef suet