HAI [ 14 J HAI A lady's long hair may be instantly dried by submitting it to the vapour of benzoin, ina- properly called a gum, but in reality a balsam, and usually known by the name of " gum benjamin." The lady should recline on a chaise lonrjue or a sofa, with her long hair hanging over the end. A pan containing two or three pieces of ignited charcoal is then placed under it, and a little powdered benzoin sprinkled upon the lighted fuel. The thick smoke which rises, and is strongly impregnated with benzoic acid combined with carbonic acid, rapidly absorbs the moisture in the hair, which should be previously well wiped with towels, so as to be as free from wet as possible, and in a few seconds the hair is perfectly dry, beautifully perfumed, and ready for the operation of the brush. This operation should never be neglected except in cases of illness, as the omission of the brushing of a single morning will leave an accumulation of scurf. Nightcaps are very injurious. By heating the head and keeping it at a feverish temperature, and by shutting out the air, they weaken the hair, and arouse a tendency to fall off, which is greatly aggravated if the body be in an abnormal condition, either from specific disease or from general neglect of the skin. Instead of night- caps, ladies, to keep their hair properly together during their repose, should wear a net over the hair, with meshes sufficiently large to permit the insertion of the tip of the finger. Men, whose hair is short, need no night- caps ; but with regard to the practice of sleep- ing with the head bare we must make an observation. It may serve as a caution to persons of uncleanly habits, and, under the same circumstances, is equally applicable to individuals of the other sex. If the hair is left unbrushed, so as to produce an accumulation of scurf, this soon becomes saturated with the natural exudation from the body called perspi- ration. Like all exhalations of animal matter, this is extremely poisonous. The head rubbing upon the pillow leaves upon it a portion of this scurf, which, if touched by the face when the pores are excited by the warmth of the bed, will cause absorption of some of the poisonous matter. The result will be pimples, often of a disgusting appearance. If the hair be kept perfectly clean and free from scurf, and brushed during ten minutes before going to bed, no evil arises from the cause just indicated. The ordinary comb is a necessary adjunct of the brush : it serves to disentangle and set the hair in proper form. The small-tooth comb is not needed except vermin exist, all other purposes being much better obtained by the brush, if of proper manufacture. When we say " vermin," although these are seldom found except in the heads of children who are not properly kept clean, or in those of the filthiest among the very lowest classes of the community, it may possibly happen that some casual circum- stance may bring vermin into the heads of the most cleanly. In such a case the small-tooth comb would be found of use; but the most effective mode of destroying them is to dissolve ten grains of bichloride of mercuiy (corrosive sublimate) in half a pint of distilled water, and wet the hair well with the solution. This lotion, however, must be used with caution, as it is a deadly poison if taken into the stomach. The hair of children should be as carefully cleansed as that of adults. Girls under twelve years of age should not be allowed to wear long hair, the premature growth of which, before the strength of body is developed, tends, with other causes, to impair the constitution, and con- sequently is detrimental to the future growth of the hair. When the hair of the head has been allowed to grow very long without cutting, the sepai'ate hairs are frequently observed to become thinner in substance. When this is the case the hairs break very readily. If at this time any single hair be examined by means of a microscope, it will be found split at the extremity into several divisions. This shows that it has grown beyond its strength. An inch or two, or the end of all the hair on the head, if very long, should be cut off, and the same thing, but in a less degree, repeated every two months until the strength of the hair is restored. By such a practice, com- bined with the use of the brush, and due care of the skin of the body, the hair may be made to grow to any length without losing its strength. Fineness and siikiness of the hair are esteemed as beautiful; but fineness must not be confounded with weakness. The hair, how- ever fine, of a healthy person, is as strong as if it were coarse ; but the thinness of substance of the hair, from ill-health of body or overgrowth, shows a want of strength and a tendency to break. One cannot be mistaken for the other. The use of oils and pomatums is often very advantageous. Besides the oil constituting the colouring principle, a white concrete oil exists in the hair, to which it communicates gloss and suppleness. The secretion of this oil is greater in some individuals than in others. Persons in whom it is the most abundantly secreted are generally much freer from scurf; they have less difficulty in cleansing their hair, which is always fine and silky ; and it will be found that they generally enjoy better health. They may almost dispense with the use of any unctuous substance. Nevertheless a little is necessary at times. Coarse hair requires more than fine, however healthy the possessor, for he has a lesa