SUD SUF [ 409 ] (Lapis licematites), I drachm ; and loaf sugar, •' 2 draohms. Let these ingredients he reduced to a fine powder, a tea-spoonful of which is to be taken every hour, or oftener, in camomile or bahn tea. SUDOPJFICS. (&<3 Perspiration.) Sudo- I'ifics are medicines augmenting perspiration. They are occasionally used in colds accompanied with more or less of fever, and in inflammatory diseases. Should perspiration in these affections spon- taneously ai'ise, an additional covering to the bed will have a tendency to promote it, as will also vinegar whey, or whey formed with lemons, oranges, or supertartrate of potash (cream of tartar). It is made by boiling with milk and water a lemon or orange sliced, or a little super- tartrate of potash. Wheys should be drunk warm. They should also be taken copiously as circumstances may require. As combined with a mixture of wine, and thus abundantly administered, they may be regarded as of hurtful tendency. Antimonial powder, tartarised antimony (emetic tartar), and that composition known by the name of James's powder, may, when necessary, be had recourse to. As powerful agents the dose of each of the ingredients will require to be skil- fully adjusted. SoDOBiFic Draughts. Take of carbonate of potash 1 scruple; citric acid, as much as is sufficient to saturate the carbonate of potash; tile effervescence ceasing, add distilled water, 1 fluid oz.; syrup, 2 fluid drachms. Make a saline draught. It should be taken every four hours. To render this more effectual, from J grain to i grain of tartarised antimony, or 13 minims of solution of tartarised antimony, may be added to each draught. Or, take of solution of acetate of ammonia i fluid oz.; distilled water, 1 fluid oz.; solution of tartarised antimony, 12 minims ; syrup of lemon, 2 fluid drachms. Make a draught. To be given as occasioir requires. 1 SuDOEiFio Powders. Take of antimonial powder 5 grains. It may be taken at night in any proper fluid, or as circumstances may re- quire. Or, take of tartarised antimony from J grain to \ grain; carbonate of lime, ^ scruple. Make a powder. It may be given every four hours. SUET: To Keep for Twelve Months. Choose the firmest part, and pick it free from skin and veins ; put it into a saucepan, and set it at some distance from the fire, in order that the suet may melt without frying, or it will taste disagi'eeable. When it is melted pour it into a pan of cold water, and as soon as it has caked quite hard wipe it, and store in a dry, but not a hot place. When you wish to use it scrape it fine, and it will make a nice crust either with or without butter. SUET DUMPLINGS. This batter should be made the same as for Suet PuddtiNG (2), but much thicker. Let your cloth be wetted, shake it all over with flour, and tie up in several parts of the cloth, as much as it will hold, two or three spoonsful of batter. Or you may make the batter as usual, and put it in tea-cups well buttered. Tie them in cloths, and boil an hour. Another way of making suet dumplings is to boil them without a cloth in a pot with beef or mutton. In this case no eggs are used, but the dumplings are rolled in flour. Six ounces of currants may be added : a little sugar is also an improvement. SUET PUDDING (1). Chop i lb. of beef suet very fine, add to it the same quantity of flour, two eggs beaten, a little salt, and a small quantity of pounded and sifted ginger : mix all these together well with milk to a moderate consistence. It may be either baked or boiled. SUET PUDDING (2). Chop fine 6 ozs. of suet, put it into a basin, with the same quantity of flour, 2 ozs. of bread crumbs, and a tea- spoonful of salt; stir these well together, beat two eggs on a plate, add six spootisful of milk, put it gradually into the basin, and mingle the contents thoroughly; divide the mass into six dumplings, tie them in separate cloths that have been floured, and boil them just an hour. These will eat well the next day fried. The entire composition will also make a good pud- ding boiled two hours in a saucepan, with the addition of another egg, some more milk, and 2 ozs. of suet. SUFFOCATION. To the class of gases which, when breathed, prove injurious to man, belong the carbonic acid gas, the fumes of chai-- coal, and the several aeriform combinations of hydrogen and azote. The symptoms which they induce are headache, confusion of vision, ring- ing in the ears, difficulty of respii'ation, palpita- tions, and insensibility, as if the nervous energy were completely extinct. In general the face is pale, and not unfrequently convulsions are present. If the person be plethoric apoplexy may be induced. Carbonic acid gas is the most common cause. It is met with in rooms where charcoal has been burned, and at the bottom of large vats which have stood empty for some time, of wells, and of many natural cavei'ns. It is destitute of smell, and, being specifically heavier than at- mospheric air, always falls to the bottom. Hydrogen gas is met with in coal and metallic mines, and there, like the former, when pui'e, is destitute of smell. But in water-closets, neces- saries, and other parts where animal or vegetable