[ 483 ] IE A TEA sold for soucTioiig sliould be crisp and dry, and not broken, of a pleasant fragrant smell, and not old and musty, and as free from dust as possible. When infused in water the leaves should be of a reddish brown colour, and the infusion light brown, but sometimes it is dark, and sometimes pale ; but if good in othai* respects, as regards flavour, it should not be rejected because of the colour. Besides that just noticed there are two other varieties of souchong. Caper souchong is so called from being rolled up like a caper: it is of a fine black glossy colour, heavy, of a fragrant smell and full high flavour, and yields an infusion of a bright reddish brown colour. This should never be dusty, broken, or of a faint smell. It is said to be the very fine dust of other varieties rolled up with gum into the shape of capers. Padre souchong, or powchong, is a very superior variety of souchong, with a fine taste, smell, and flavour. The leaves are larger, of a yellowish hue, and not so strongly twisted. This is very scarce, and difficult to be procured genuine. It should never be small and broken. 4. Pekoe is made from the tenderest leaves of three-year-old plants, gathered after the plants have been in bloom: they are collected just as the buds have burst, and have made a shoot long enough to form a small sprig, and this is picked off. It has a downy or sillcy appearance, and is much employed for mixing Avith other teas, to which it communicates its peculiar flavour. The varieties of this are orange pekoe, which owes its peculiar 2)erfume to the flowers of Olea fragrans. Every leaf is most beautifully and regular^ twisted, and should never appear in fragments. Floirery pekoe owes its perfume to the leaves or berries of Chloranthus, which communicate what is called the cowslip flavour. It is more highly esteemed than souchong. 5. Ball tea is a kind of black tea rolled up in balls the size of a nutmeg, and gummed together. Green teas are also of several varieties. Those which are known in commerce are— 1. Singlo. This has a flattish leaf, and should have a fresh strong flavour, a light green colour ■when chewed, and on infusion none of the leaves should turn brown or dark coloured. That which is yellow, of a large loose leaf, and dusty, should be rejected. 2. Twankay is a superior kind of singlo, and, like it, is of two or three qualities, the best being sometimes sold for hyson of inferior growth. It should be well twisted, and have a slight and pleasant burnt smell, and the infusion should yield a paler colour than singlo. That •which is yellow, and hns a smell somewhat like sulphur, should be rejected. 3. flijsm skin. Of this there are two kinds, the common called hlooin tea, and the superior hijson skin. The former consists of the largest, worst-coloured, irregular, and uncurled leaves that are picked out from the best hyson. It yields a pale yellowish green infusion, of a delicate taste, though somewhat of a burnt flavour. The latter is a nearer approach to true hyson, and is said to be that sort a year or more old, which has been repeatedly dried and freshened up before being brought to market a second time. It is darker than hysons with less bloom on it; its smell is somewhat musty, and has more of the brassy flavour peculiar to green teas ; it has not the delicate aromatic taste, and its infusion is darker, with less fragrance than the true hyson. 4. Hyson is of a fine blooming appearance, very dry, full-sized grain, and so crisp that it will crumble to dust with a slight pressure. The infusion should be of a light green colour, with an aromatic smell and strong pungent taste, and the leaf should open clear and smooth, without being broken or appearing shrivelled, this being an indication of old tea. The teas which appear of a dyed yellowish green, or give the water a similar tinge, or rather a brownish hue, and those which appear highly glazed, which causes them to yield a high colour to water, should be avoided. 5. Chulan hyson has a yellowish leaf, a fragrant and perfumed smell, and the infusion has a strong flavour of cowsliji. It is a variety of the preceding, distinguished by this cowslip flavour, which is communicated by having the berries of Chloranthus, a small shrub, called by the Chinese chulan, mixed with it; and hence it is sometimes called cowslip tea. 0. Gunpowder should be round like small shot, with a beautiful bloom upon it, which will not bear even the breath, with a greenish hue, and a fragrant pungent taste. This kind of tea is frequently adulterated with an inferior kind, which is dyed and glazed to bear the appearance of the finest varieties, but which on infusion is very inferior in every respect. That which has the leaf open and loose, the face of a darker hue, and the taste brassy and unpleasant, should be carefully avoided. There is a form of tea called brush tea, which is made both of green and black. It consists in the leaves being twisted into small cords like packthread, about an inch and a half or two inches long, and tied in bundles at the ends with silk of various colours. A spurious kind of tea called lie by the Chinese, and very similar to gunpowder, is much used for adulteration. It consists of the dust and sweepings of tea warehouses mixed with sand and other earth, and caused to adhere