HOU HO U [ 40 ] are dearly purchased by injury to tliat greatest earthly blessing, health. Before agi'eeing to occupy a house it will be ■well to attend to the following particulars, for which we are indebted to the " Magazine of Domestic Economy:"— Observe whether the chimney-pieces are discoloured, for if such is the case, and the chimney-tops are graced with any contrivances beyond the ordinary pots, you may be sure that the chimneys smoke ; and, next- to a scolding wife, this is the most serious of domestic evils, for if the one will worry your temper, the other will destroy your health and your goods, and eventually compel you to move again. If the drains emit a disagreeable smell- -and this is the case with most of the London houses— have nothing to do with it. The best means of discovering this is to make a visit of inspection just after a shower of rain. It is seldom that you can obtain any satisfactory information from the existing tenants : if on good terms with the landlord they will conceal everything objec- tionable, and if the reverse they will enhance any fault; but you should never call to view a house at an unseasonable hour, when the family may be at meals, or the rooms not in a state to be seen. The proper time for this purpose is from eleven o'clock in the morning to two in the afternoon. All houses of the yearly rent of £iO and upwards should have one water-closet at least: this must be a sine qua non, being conducive to health and comfort. If you resolve to dis- pense with such a condition be sure to pay a visit to the garden, and ascertain the state of the convenience. If it requires emptying, and the landlord will not agree to get it done, you may set down an item of a guinea at least for this job ; and you should stipulate that the contents be taken away, not deposited in a hole in the garden, a disgusting and unhealthy practice very often resorted to. A new house is objectionable, the first occu- pant having many things to do, trifles of them- selves, but all attended with expense. If the landlord has not taken more than ordinary pains to stock the garden this will present a barren and desolate appearance, and it takes some money to improve it. Be careful also that water is laid on. Some houses are provided with spring water only by means of a pump ; but this is not fit for domestic purposes in general, par- ticularly if washing is done at home. The beginning of September is a good time for house- hunting; but, unless you hit upon something that suits you exactly, be in no hurry to close your bargain. Many families will not permit a bill to bo exhibited at all, and, indeed, very few consent to do so, and to be troubled with persons coming VOL. II. to view at all seasons, until a few days before the term expires. You may inquire, however, of the brokers and house agents in the neigh- bourhood, for they can often inform you of houses that will be vacant, of which there is no visible notification on the outside of the premises. When you meet with a house that you imagine will suit you, your next step will be to wait on the landlord, and make the necessary stipula- tions as to terms. It is usual to give a refer- ence unless you are known to him. If paint- ing, papering, or other repairs are required, you must be careful to have an explicit understanding. Even if nothing of this kind is wanted the ceil- ings of the passage and rooms should be washed, and the offices whitewashed: this and chimney- sweeping throughout should be performed before your furniture is unpacked. Make your agreement in writing by all means, and in this form :— Memorandum of an agreement made the twenty-first day of September, 1835, between John White, of, &c., and William Brown, of, &c. The said J. W. agrees to let, and the said W. B. agrees to take, all that messuage or tenement and premises, with the yard and ap- purtenances (or, all that first floor and one room in the attic story, and a front kitchen and cellar opposite, in the house now occupied by the said J. W.), being No. in Street, Brompton, for six months, to commence from the twentj'-ninth day of September instant, at the yearly rent of pounds, payable quarterly, and afterwards from quarter to quarter, so long as the said parties may agree, at the same rent. Each party shall be at liberty to determine the tenancy on giving to the other three months' notice in writing. The said to do all needful repaii's. All rates and taxes due in respect of the said premises to be cleared off by the landlord. As witness our hands, Witness, John White. Nathaniel Neutral. William Brown, In order to put an end to the above agree- ment the tenant may give a written notice to the landlord in the following form :— I do hereby give you notice that I intend to quit and deliver up possession of the messuage and premises (or, the apartments and premises) which I now rent and hold of you, situate at No. in Street, Brompton, on the day of now next ensuing. Dated this day of 1835. William Brown To Mr. John White, landlord. If the notice be required to be given by the landlord the following form should be adopted:— I do hereby give you notice that I require you to quit and deliver up to me the possession of the messuage and premises (or, the apart- ments, &c.) which you now hold and rent of me,