KNI [ 107 ] KNI handle of the upper one—moderating the pres- sure as required—draw the knife briskly back- wards and forwards. In a short time it will be polished of a beautiful silvery white. To clean it further a similar machine, with buff leather, but no powder, might be used. KNITTING. Teems Used. Purl stitch, seam stitch, and rib stitch are terms signifying the same, namely, to pass the material before the pin, putting the pin under instead of over the upper thread. Thread forward is to bring it between the pins towards you. To increase in a fancy stitch is by bringing the thread forward. Thread twice round the pin, same as thread forward twice. Let one off is to drop one of the stitches that you have made in a former row by putting the thread twice round the pin. To slip a stitch is to pass it from one needle to another without knitting it. To take under is to pass the right-hand pin through the stitch on the left-hand one, still keeping the same side of the stitch towards you. A plain row. Simple knitting. To fasten on wool in plain knitting lay the two ends contrariwise, and knit a few stitches with both together; but with silk or any less elastic material, whsn knitting a fancy pattern, a weaver's knot is more secure. To decrease is to knit two stitches as one. 2^0 increase in plain knitting is to make a stitch by knitting in the usual way ; then, with- out taking it off the pin, knit another from the back. A turn means two rows. Brioche stitch. Wool forward, slip one under, knit two together. Decreasing in brioche stitch. Wool forward, slip one, knit five into one. Increasing in brioche stitch. Having knitted a rib, do not take it off the pin, but wool forward, slip one stitch, and knit the other. In casting on the stitches, being provided with a ball of worsted, or cotton and needles, take a length of the worsted in the right hand, putting it once round the little finger, passing it under the next two fingers, and bringing it over the forefinger; and then take one of the knitting-needles between the finger and thumb. Then take the end of the length of worsted in the left hand, and twist it round the little finger, bringing it over the thumb and round the two forefingers, so as to form a loop. Then put the needle under the lower worsted of the loop, and. bring it above that which goes over the first finger. Next pass the worsted which is over the forefinger of the right hand under the needle, bring the needle down ttrotigh the loop, draw the worsted tightly in the left hand, and thus the stitch is completed. The stitches having been cast on, next take another needle, put it through the stitch, turn the worsted over the needle, take up the worsted turned over, let off the under loop, and then knit in the end of the worsted with the first three stitches. In knitting a stocking you require three needles for casting on, and one for knitting. Cast on the same number of stitches on two of the needles, and one more on the third needle, because there must always be an odd stitch for the seam. For a man's stock- ing cast on from thirty-six to forty stitches on each of the three needles, forming a triangle, and using the fourth needle to work with round and round. Form the seam stitch by parting a stitch in the middle of one of the needles every alternate row. Make the leg of the stocking before you narrow it two-eighths and a half long, or from eleven to twelve or thirteen inches. Narrow or decrease for the ankle by knitting two stitches togetlier on each side of the seam stitch; then knitting eight rows, and decreasing two stitches again; then every six rows, then eveiy four rows, and then eveiy two rows, until there are only from eighty-five to eighty-seven around, when the leg will be of a sufficient length ; that is, from five - eighths to six- eighths and a half. Make the heel one-eighth long. Now divide the stitches into two equal parts—one part for the heel, the other for the instep. Secure the stitches for the instep on one needle, to remain untouched till the heel is finished. Thus the heel is now on two needles, the seam stitch running through the centre of the heel, which is to be knitted open ; that is, with every alternate row parted. Having knitted about two inches, round the heel by de- creasing a stitch at each side of the seam stitch—first every third row, then every second, then every row—about four times, always decreasing on the right side of the stocking. Having knitted to the middle of the needle, close the heel by placing the needles together, and casting off the stitches. When the heel is closed there are three needles at liberty: with two of them pick up the stitches around the heel, and with the fourth, using the instep stitches, commence and continue knitting round until the foot is nearly the sufficient length. Before beginning to narrow for the toe make the foot two-eighths long; then divide the stitches into two equal parts, knitting two stitches together at the beginning and end of each half; knit round until there are only fourteen stitches left, and then close. If the stocking be ribbed, after casting on the stitches knit one round plain,