[ 306 ] PAS PAS PASTE, COMMON DUMPLING. Rub into 1 lb. of flour 6 ozs. of butter, and work it into a paste with two well-beaten eggs and a little water. This paste may be baked, a large table-spoonful of pounded loaf sugar being added. PASTE, COMMON PIE. Take 1 lb. of flour, i lb. of butter, and a tea-spoonful of jeast put into a quarter of a pint of cold water. Rub half of the butter in the flour, and the other half spread on the paste, with flour dredged on it. When you have rolled the paste cut it in pieces, lay one piece upon another, and roll out three times. PASTE, CROQUANTE. Blanch 1 lb. of almonds, dry them well in a stove, and pound them to a dry paste, adding occasionally white of egg and orange flower; put the paste into a stewpan, and set it on a slow fire, putting in the sugar a little at a time, and stirring con- stantly. When the paste is sufficiently con- sistent put it in a heap on the table to cool, and then form it into cakes or any shape you please. PASTE CRUST, LIGHT PUFF. Mix 1^ lb. of flour with just water enough to make it into a paste, add a little salt, mould it lightly together, and let it lie two hours ; then roll it out, put 1 lb. of butter into the middle of it, fold the ends of the paste over, and roll it out: repeat this six times in winter, and five in summer. It should not be more than half an inch thick each time it is rolled, and a little flour dusted lightly over and under it to prevent its sticking. This is a very light and deUcate crust. PASTE FOR CUSTARDS. To i lb. of flour put J lb. of butter, the yolks of two eggs, and three spoonsful of cream; mix them up together, and let it stand for a quarter of an hour; then work it till smooth, and roll it out very thin. PASTE, FAMILY PIE. Rub i lb. of butter into i ib. of flour, and add water enough to knead it thoroughly. Another common pro- portion is i lb. of butter to 1^ lb. of flour. PASTE, FEUILLETAGE, or Fine French Puff Paste. This, when made by a good French cook, is the perfection of rich, light crust, and will rise in the oven from one to six inches in height; but some practice is, without doubt, necessary to accomplish this. In summer it is a great advantage to have ice at hand, and to harden the butter over it before it is used; the paste also, in the intervals of rolling, is improved by being laid on an oven-leaf over a vessel containing ice. Take an equal weight of good butter, free from the coarse salt which is found in some, and which is disadvantageous for this paste, and of fine, dry, sifted flour: to each pound of these allow the yolks of a couple of eggs and a small tea-spoonful of salt. Break a few small bits of the butter very lightly into the flour, put the salt into the centre, and pour on it sufficient water to dissolve it (we do not quite understand why the doing of this should be better than mixing it with flour, as in other pastes, but such is the method always pursued for it); add a little more water to the eggs, moisten the flour gradually, and make it into a very smooth paste, rather light in summer, and never exceedingly stifl', though the opposite fault in an extreme would render the crust unmanageable. Press in a soft, thin cloth all moisture from the remainder of the butter, and form it into a ball; but in doing this be careful not to soften it too much. Should it be m an unfit state for pastry, from the heat of the weather, put it into a basin, set it in a pan of water, mLxed with plenty of salt and saltpetre, and let it remain in a cool place for an hour, if possible, before it is used. When ifc is ready (and the paste should never be com- menced until it be so), roll the crust out square, and of sufficient size to inclose the butter; flatten this upon it in the centre, then fold the crust well over it, and roll it out as thin and lightly as possible, after having dredged the board and paste roller with a little flour (this is called giving it one turn); then fold it in three, give it another turn, and set it aside where it will be very cool for a few minutes ; give it two more turns in the same way, rolling it each time very lightly, but of equal thickness, and to the full length that it will reach, taking especial care that the butter does not break through the paste. Let it again be set aside to become cold; and, after it has been twice more rolled and folded in three, give it a half turn by folding it once only, and it will be ready for use. Equal weight of the finest flour and good butter; to each pound of these add the yolks of three eggs and a small spoonful of salt. Six: and a half turns to be given to the paste. PASTE, HOT (FOR Custards). Put i lb. of butter into a saucepan with a pint of water; take 2f lbs. of flour, make a hole in the middle, and when the water and butter boils pour it into the flour by degrees, stirring it with a slice till it is well mixed ; then knead with your hands till it becomes stiflf, and cover it closely with an earthen pan or bowl till cold: it is then ready for use. PASTE, HOT (for Pies). To one pint of water put 2 ozs. of butter in a saucepan ; take 2^ lbs. of flour, and break two eggs into it; when the water and butter boils stir it by degrees into the flour with a wooden slice till well mixed, vrork it with the hands till quite smooth and