HAD HAG [ n ] felt by those who have been habituated to greater. On tlie contrary, men who are nurtured in habits of self-indulgence not only bear with impatience those inconveniences which are common to the rest of mankind, but possess an acuteness of perception which con- verts indifferent impressions into actual suffer- ing. But even in those cases in which indolence and an assiduous escape from the common pains and irritations of life have been carried to a much less extent than that just mentioned, they naturally lead to a state of the system in- compatible with happiness or comfort. The predisposition being thus created, every- thing that can concur to the eventual torment of the unhappy being through the greater part of the course of life ison principle carefully supei'- added. Towards this end the first step is the dereliction of bodily exercise, so that when the youth, who during boyhood had derived his chief pleasure from every variety of muscular exertion, commences that occupation which is to form the business of his future life, the exer- cise of his body by means of its own muscles almost wholly ceases. Hence at the commencement of adult age occur in males indigestion, headache, and various affections of the brain ; and at a more advanced period gout, dropsy, and all those complaints which are called bilious. These maladies, with the exception of gout, fall still more heavily on the female sex, who, from the reputed diseases of civilised society, are at an earlier period of life subjected to physical restraint. Hence, even while children, they are confined to long sitting in schools or under governesses, and during the intervals of study are relinquishing all those exercises in which boys for a considerable time afterwards freely indulge. HACHEE SAUCE. Blanch and mince a spoonful of mushroom, a spoonful of shallots, and about a third of minced parsley; put it into three ladlesful of Espagnole and as much consomme, and two spoonsful of vinegar and pepper; boil and skim; minoe one or two spoonsful of capers, add the butter of one or two anchovies, and work it well. It should not be boiled after the capers are put in. HADDOCK, DRIED. Take the eyes, gills, and entrails from the fish, with any blood that may settle in them; wipe them perfectly dry, and salt them ; let them lie twenty-four hours, then run a string through the eyes, and hang them up in a dry place. HADDOCK, FINDHORN (Imitation of). Let the fish be well cleaned, and laid in salt for two hours; let the water drain from them, and then wet them with pyroligneous acid. They may be split or not. Then hang them in a dry situation for a day or two, or longer if you please. When broiled they have the flavour of the Findhorn haddock, and will keep sweet for a long time. HADDOCKS : To Boil. Fill a fish kettle with cold spring water, to which add plenty of salt, and put the haddocks into this over the fire. As soon as they begin to boil salt them well, and set them by the fire to simmer. When done drain them thoroughly from the water, dish them, and serve them with Dutch sauce. HADDOCKS : To Broil. Take the skins from the number of haddocks you intend to dress, and toss up the fish in some egg beaten with pepper and salt; take them out and bread them; then, having dipped them in clarified butter, bread them a second time, and broil them to a nice colour over a moderate fire. Be sure both sides are done equally. Serve them with a good sauce Italienne. HADDOCKS, ABERDEEN. Split the had- docks, lay them on a dresser or board, and dredge them over with very finely powdered salt; lay over them a smooth board, and put weights equally upon it; let them repose two or three hours, and then hang them up to dry. After they are a little hardened they may be smoked with juniper, birch, or stable litter. If wanted for immediate use they are broiled before the fire very slowly, first di'ied at a distance, or upon a hanging jack or gridiron. Send them to table in a napkin. HADDOCKS, RIZZARD. Take out the gills of haddocks of from 1 lb. to 2 lbs. weight, rub a little salt in the breast bone and the neck, lay them in a heap upon a dresser, and leave them for an hour or two; wipe them, run a wooden spit through the eyes, and hang them, in the air, but not damp. Too many ought not to be done at a time, as they do not keep well over three or four days, which also depends on the season ; but if a little sugar is added they will probably keep a long time. Broil them very nicely at a distance over a good fire, put them on a hot dish, open them, split the bone, and put several pieces of nice fresh butter into each; turn them that they may be equally buttered, and serve very hot. They are nice for supper or breakfast dishes, and if well done have a taste that is very grateful. HADDOCKS, SAUCE OF. Make a sauce of the heads and fins, with pepper, salt, onions, or chives, and parsley; strain the liquor, and when it cools, if the fish are large, cut them in junks, roll them in flour, put them into the sauce, and dredge a little flour over; add some pieces of butter and a few sprigs of parsley; cover the whole closely, and shake it often and gently. It will take from five to fifteen minutes to cook, according to the thickness of the fish. The hard roe will take the whole time, but tha soft roe and liver only half.