LOO LOG [ 163 ] bend the trunk of the body very forcibly back- ■wards, &c. The disorder continuing to advance, every organ depending on voluntary motion becomes affected, the eyes are stiff and immovable in their sockets; the countenance is hideously dis- torted, expressive of the greatest distress; the strength at last becomes exhausted, the pulse irregular, and universal spasm of the whole frame puts a period to a most misei'able and excruciating state of existence. In the treatment of this formidable disease the first object of consideration should be to ascertain the cause ; for, however unmanageable any disease may be, the patient should by no means be left in a miserable state of existence without making some efforts to relieve, or at least to palliate, his sufferings; and the only chance of being able to succeed in either of these intentions is a knowledge of the circum- stance that may have given rise to the disease. For instance, should locked jaw be occasioned in consequence of a lacerated or punctured wound in any part of the body, the injured spot should be carefully and minutely examined, and any foreign body that may have lodged in the part instantly extracted by making a free incision into the wound. These steps being taken, a small quantity of strong lotion of opium—tincture of opium, 1 drachm; water, 1^ oz.—should be poured into the wound, dressing it afterwards with a piece of lint dipped in the lotion, and lay- ing another piece spread with basilicon over the whole, moistening the wound with the same solu- tion every time the dressings are renewed in the preceding manner; or it has been recommended to use the lunar caustic by touching the wound freely with it, and afterwards covering the part with a bread-and-milk poultice. An eminent French surgeon (Baron Larrey) has, in similar cases, recommended the free application of a hot iron, and afterwards bringing the wound to a state of suppuration as soon as possible by means of stimulating applications. In those cases of trismus where the jaws are so firmly locked as to prevent nourishment from being conveyed into the stomach, and where the teeth are quite perfect in front, it will be neces- sary to have some of them drawn, in order to pass down the medicine as well as the food ; and when the power of swallowing is lost, opium, which, it appears, has been employed with the best effects in this disease, is to be administered in the form of clysters, as well as externally, by rubbing those parts most frequently that are principally affected. Opium, given internally, is said to have its effect increased by combining it with other anti- spasmodic medicines, such as musk, ether, and camphor. The following, therefore, are recom- mended to be tried, increasing the quantity of opium from five to ten drops in each succeeding dose:—Take musk, 10 grains; spirit of cinna- mon, 2 drachms; camphor mixture, 1 oz.; tinc- ture of opium, 20 drops; or, camphor mixture, 1 2 ozs.; compound spirit of ether, 1 oz. ; tincture of opium, ^ oz.; of which give two table-spoons- ful every three hours. For external use take opium finely powdered, 2 drachms ; camphor, ^ oz.; hog s lard, 1 oz. : incorporate them well together for use. Or, soap liniment (opodeldoc), 2 ozs.; tincture of opium, ^ oz. A variety of other formula and medicines might be here introduced, such as Barbadoes tar, turpentine, the hot bath impregnated with quicklime, mercury externally and internally administered, &c.; but few if any of such means have ever been found successful. Costiveness, which is an attendant on this disease, must be removed by some active open- ing medicine, and the patient's strength sup- ported with wine mixed in such nutritious vehicles as will admit of being most easily swallowed. As an opening draught the follow- ing may be given :—Take infusion of senna, H oz.; sulphate of soda (Glauber's salts), | oz.; tincture of jalap, 2 drachms; syrup of buck- thorn, I drachm. To be repeated from time to time as occasion may require. LOGWOOD [Hmmatoxylon CampecManum). The trees are cut into billets, the bark and white sap of which are chipped off, while the red part, or heart only, is selected for sale. Logwood is used in great quantities for dyeing purple, green, blue, and especially for black colours, according to the different ingredients employed. These, however, are not durable unless previously tinged brown in a decoc- tion of the dried Iceland liverwort, which serves as the basis of fixing the colouring matter. Indeed, there are many indigenous plants that may be advantageously substituted for logwood and other dyeing drugs. Independently of its utility as a dyeing drug, logwood has lately been found to possess con- siderable astringency as a medicine; hence a decoction, as well as an extract from it, has been given with advantage in cases of diarrhoea. LONGEVITY. See Age, and other refer- ences there given. LOOKING-GLASS. {See Glass.) Looking- glasses are made of plate glass, which is cast and ground in the manner described under the article Glass. After the plates are polished some fine blotting paper is spread on the table, and strewed over with levigated chalk, which is covered with a thin leaf of tinfoil. Upon the latter is poured the purest quicksilver, which ought to be distributed uniformly over the leaf with cotton or other soft substance; over the