KID KIN [ 102 ] As an opiate clyster a drachm of the tincture of opium may be added to 4 or 5 ozs. of barley water. After bleeding, flannels wrung out of a warm 'decoction of emollient herbs, or a bladder filled with warm water, is advised to be kept con- stantly applied over the part. In this complaint blisters are improper. Those who are liable to frequent returns of this disease, or to obstruc- tions of the kidneys, should carefully guard against getting wet in the feet, as well as against all exposures to cold. They should prefer lying on mattresses to feather beds, use moderate exercise, and by no means drink any kind of wine in which tartar abounds. KIDNEYS, MUTTON, BROILED (1). Wash and dry some nice kidneys, cut them in half, and with a small skewer keep them open, in imitation of two shells; season them Tvith salt and pepper, and dip them in a little fresh melted butter. Broil first the side that is cut, and be careful not to let the gravy drop in taking them off the gridiron. Serve them in a hot dish with finely chopped parsley, mixed with melted butter, the juice of a lemon, pepper, and salt, putting a little upon each kidney. KIDNEYS, MUTTON, BROILED (2). Cut each kidney in half, and remove the outward skin; run a small skewer through the flat part so as to keep them open, dip them in melted butter, and strew equal portions of salt and Cayenne pepper over them ; broil on a bright fire, placing the round side first upon the gridiron to retain the gravy. You may serve either with parsley, butter, lemon juice, and chilli vinegar, or Read- ing sauce. KING CUP. Take the rind and juice of a lemon, a lump of sugar, and a small piece of bruised ginger, and pour on them about one pint and a half of boiling water. When cold strain, and add a wine-glassful of sherry and ice. KING'S EVIL, or Sceofula, received its first name because supposed tobecurable byatouch by the sovereign's hand; and scrofula because swine are subject to it. It consists in hard, indolent tumours of certain parts of the body, but parti- cularly in the neck, behind the ears, and under the chin, which after a time suppurate and de- generate into ulcers, from which, instead of pus, a white, curdled matter, somewhat resembling the curd of milk, is discharged. It usually makes its appearance between the third and seventh year of the child's age; but it may arise at any period between this and the age of puberty, after which it seldom makes its first attack. It commonly affects children of a lax habit, with smooth fine skins, fair hair, and rosy cheeks. It is also apt to attack such children as show a disposition to rickets, marked by a protuberant forehead, enlarged joints, fre- quently a thickening of the upper lip, a tumid abdomen, &c.; and, like that disease, it seems to be peculiar to cold and variable chmates, being rarely met with in warm ones. Scrofula is by no means a contagious disease, but, beyond all doubt, is of an hereditary nature, and is often entailed by parents on their chil- dren. The treatment of scrofula consists chiefly in the use of those means which are calculated to improve the general health; e.g., a nutritious and easily digestible diet, a pure dry air, gentle exercise, the warm bath with friction, cold bathing, especially in salt water, and strengthen- ing medicines, such as the preparations of iron, myrrh, &c., but particularly the Peruvian bark, with soda. Submuriate of mercury, Ethiops mineral, Plummer's pill, antimonials, with the decoction of sarsaparilla, guaiacum, sassafras, dulcamara, and mezereon, together with the Lisbon diet drink {see Diet Drink), which consists in a combination of all these, have all been employed, but without, it appears, much seeming advan- tage. In recent cases of obstruction the submuriate of mercury, joined with tartarised antimony, &c., in the following form, has been given with ad- vantage :—Take prepared chalk in powder, 1 drachm; submuriate of mercury, from 3 to 6 grains; tartarised antimony, 2 grains. Mix, and divide into twelve papers, of which give one twice a day, keeping the bowels open with an occasional gentle purgative of calomel and rhubarb. Muriated barytes, from three to ten or twelve drops, according to the age of the person, has been given in some cases of scrofula. It is attended, however, beyond a certain dose, with unpleasant effects, as sickness, tremors, and a loss of power. Hemlock has been much employed in this disease, both in the swelling and ulcerated stage, and has been found ser\dceable on many occa- sions in dispersing swellings of a scrofulous nature, given internally, as well as employe! externally in some cases in the form of poultice and fomentation, or both, viz.:—Take extract of Peruvian bark, 2 drachms ; extract of hem- lock, 1 drachm. Mix, and make forty pills, two or three of which may be taken twice or three times a day. For a hemlock poultice in scrofulous ulcera- tion take two handsful of hemlock leaves, and boil them in a pint of water; strain, and thicken to a proper consistence with linseed- meal or oatmeal. The fomentation may be made in the same manner, with the exception of the thickening ingredients. The hemlock must be discontinued as soon as i