TKU [ ] TRU drain them iu a clean cloth, and serve on a folded napkin. TRUFFLES, ITALIAN. Cut about a handful of truffles into dice, put them into a stewpan with a little butter, sweat them over a slow fire, and then moisten with half a glass of champagne and two spoonsful of reduced Espagnole; add some shred parsley, some shallots, salt, and pepper; give the whole a boil, take off all the fat, put in a few drops of oil, and serve. TRUFFLES IN A MINUTE. Take as many - well-washed truffles as you may require, slice them into a dish that will bear the fire, and add to them shred parsley, scallions, shallots, salt, pepper, and a little oil; cover your dish, and set it on the fire. When done serve with a little lemon juice. TRUFFLES, PIEDMONTESE. Mince your truffles as small as possible, pour some oil on a silver dish, on wliich put a layer of the truffles ; season with salt and pepper, then a layer of Parmesan cheese, and so on alternately until you have as much in your dish as you think proper, and set it in the oven for a quarter of an hour, which will be sufficient to cook them. TRUFFLES, PROVENCE. Cut some truffles into slices, and put them into a saucepan, with oil, parsley, two cloves of garlic, salt, and pepper: set them on hot ashes for an hour. In the meantime dissolve a good bit of butter rolled iu floui' in some good stock, then add half a glass of white wine, and let it boil for half an hour; take off all the fat, and when the truffles are done and di'ained serve them with the sauce poured over them. TRUFFLES, RAGOUT OF. Peel and slice twelve truffles, and put them into a saucepan with a little butter, parsley, scallions, half a clove of garlic, and two cloves; let them simmer a minute or two, with a spoonful of flour, a glass of white wine, and another of stock; let the whole stew half an hour, clear off the fat, and serve it seasoned with salt and pepper. TRUFFLES EN SURPRISE. Take twelve large truffles of a good shape, and as nearly of a size as possible ; dress them in soaie champagne wine, drain, and let them cool; then place them on their flattest side, and with a root-cutter about an inch in diameter cut the top of these out with a knife point, and clear the remainder; fill up the space thus left with a puree of fowl, a salpicon, or any ragout or other puree of fowl or game mixed with bechamel, you may think proper. When all are filled cover the aperture with the pieces taken out, and serve your truffles either in a croustade or on a folded napkin. TRUFFLES, TOURTE OF. Take 2 lbs. of fine truffles, wash and pick them, and put them into a stewpan, with si.x; slices of ham, a veiy little carrot, a sliced onion, a bay leaf, sweet herbs in powder, salt, and cliampagne; lay I'ashers of bacon over the whole, and stew them to nearly a jelly. When cold put the truffles into a crust with all the seasoning, bake the tourte, and serve as usual. TRUSS. A truss of old hay must weigh 56 lbs.; but in June, July, and August a truss of the same year's hay ought to weigh 60 lbs. A truss of straw weighs 36 lbs. Thirty- six trusses are a load either of hay or straw. TRUSS. {See Hernia.) The truss is one of the most effectual remedies at present discovered for the treatment of rupture, and to whatever part it is to be applied the greatest care must be taken to fit it with every possible exactness. If this be not particularly attended to, the truss, instead of being useful, will be extremely injurious ; for the sole intent of these bandages is to press directly on the opening through which the gut descended, or was forced from its natural position. The strictest attention should therefore be paid, not only to the formation of the truss, but to its application. A cushion, or compress, possessing a suf- ficient degree of softness and resistance, should be intermediately placed between the pad of the truss and the groin, for the purpose of prevent- ing the unpleasant and sometimes painful sen- sation which takes place from the compression necessary to retain the ruptured parts, when reduced, in their natural situation, and more particularly so when the difficulty of retention requires an inward degree of pressure. Besides the other advantages arising from the use of this cushion, it forms a bed and a fixed point of support for the pad of the truss, and by that means renders the compression more permanent, equal, and certain, and also preserves the lining of the pad from being soiled by perspiration. Take three slips of coarse calico, twenty inches long and three inches in breadth, and fold them into a square form: for young persons and children the size must be in proportion. It too often happens that the person who makes the truss applies it, and this presumption on his part, and want of caution in the patient, seldom fail to do mischief. A man may be a good mechanic, and perform his work with aliility ; but he alone can apply the bandage with effect who is acquainted with the anatomy of the human frame. The patient should on no account apply the truss himself on the first appearance of the rupture, but in this particular instance submit entirely to the conduct of the sui'geon. It is his province to determine whether the whole of the intestines are returned, or a part remains