MAR [ 185 ] MAR lightly, and then add by degrees the boiliug cream whipped continually; set it on the fire, and do not cease whipping until it has boiled up three or four times; pour it through a sieve into a basin, Stirling a little to enable it to run more freely. When cold put it into the sar- botiere with the maraschino, cover it instantly, and ice it as usual. MARBLE, whether coloured or veined, as in our chimney-pieces, or pure white, as in our best statues, is nothing more than chalk; in other words, it is a hard, compact carbonate of lime. Among other places black marble is found at Ashford, in Derbyshire; Dent, in Yorkshire ; Tenby, in Wales; and Kilkenny, in Ireland. White marble is found at Skye, Inve- rary, Blair Athol, and other places in Scotland ; but the sculptor's white marble comes chiefly from Carrara, in Italy. O-rey marble is found at Orelton, near the Glee Hills, in Shropshire. Brown and red marbles are dug from the Duke of Devonshire's estates at Buxton. Yellow or Sienna marble is found also at Mafra, near Lisbon. Blue marble is found near St. Pons, in Languedoc. Green marble occurs near Verona. The variegated marbles occur in many localities both in the British Islands and on the continent. Marbles may be artificially stained. A solu- tion of nitrate of silver penetrates the marble, and communicates a deep red colour to it. A solution of nitrate of gold penetrates less deeply, and communicates a beautiful purple violet colour. Verdigris sinks to the depth of a line into the marble, and gives it a fine green colour. A solution of dragon's blood communicates a beautiful red colour, and gamboge a yellow tint. To apply these two colours it is necessary to polish the marble with a pumice-stone, to dis- solve the gum resins in hot alcohol, and put them on with a camel-hair pencil. The tinctures obtained from woods, as Brazil wood, logwood, &c., penetrate deeply into marble. Tincture of cochineal, with the addition of a little alum, gives marble fine scarlet colour, similar to African marble. Artificial orpiraent produces, when dissolved in ammonia, a liyely yellow colour. If verdigris be boiled with white wax, and the mixture applied to the marble, and removed when it has cooled, it will be found to have penetrated fiye lines, and to have pro- duced a fine emerald colour. When it is wished to apply the different colours in succession some precaution is necessary. The tinctures prepared by spirits of wine and by the oil of tur- pentine are to be applied to the marble while it is hot; but the dragon's blood and gamboge are to be used when the marble is cold. For this purpose it is necessary to dissolve them in alcohol, and employ the solution of gamboge first. This, which is clear, soon becomes turbid, and affords a yellow precipitate. Those parts of the marble which are covered with the tinc- ture are then to be heated by passing over them, at the distance of half an inch, a red-hot iron plate or a charcoal chauffer ; it is then allowed to cool, and the iron is to be again passed over those portions where the colour has not pene- trated. When the yellow colour has been im- bibed a solution of dragon's blood is to be applied in the same manner, and while the marble is hot the other vegetable colours may be communicated. The last colours to be applied are those in union with the wax. These must be used with great caution, because the slightest excess of heat causes them to penetrate more deeply than is necessary, which renders them less adapted for delicate work. During the operation cold water should be occasionally thrown upon them. MARBLE MANTEL-PIECES. The fol- lowing will usually remove stains from them :—• Wash the marble well with soap and water, and then apply this mixture:— Powdered whitning, $ lb.; a tea-spoonful of stone blue, powdered; 1 oz. of soda dissolved in a little water; and ^ lb. of soft soap. Boil these to- gether till thoroughly mixed, and put it whilst hot on the marble with a paste brush ; let it remain on for an hour, then wash it off, and rub the marble dry. MARBLING of books or paper is performed thus:—Dissolve 4 ozs. of gum arable in two quarts of fair water; then provide several colours mixed with water in pots or shells, and with pencils peculiar to each colour; sprinkle them by way of intermixture upon the gum water, which must be put in a trough, or some broad vessel; then with a stick curl them, or draw them out in streaks to as much variety as may be done. Having done this, hold the book or books close together, and dip only the edges in on the top of the water and colours very lightly. The impression of the colours will be, of course, upon the leaves, which must be after- wards glazed. Paper may be marbled in the same planner by merely bringing one surface in contact with the colours. MARCHPANE. Take 4 lbs. of sweet almonds, and throw them into boiling water, in which let them lie till the skin loosens ; then put them into cold water, and after a few miijutes blanch and throw them again into cold water to wash them thoroughly. When dry pound them, a handful at a time, to a yei'y fine paste, moisten- ing each handful with two spoonsful of water. The whole quantity of almonds being pounded, put the paste into a large preserving-pan, with 4 lbs. of the best lump sugar finely pounded and sifted; set the pan on a coal fire, and stir and