MUT I 231 ] MUT a eerng of mutton, and put it into a stewpan, covering it with cold water, which, when it has become milk-warm, must be poured off and skimmed ; then put it in again, with four or five additional pints of water, a tea-spoonful of salt, a table-spoonful of grits or pearl barley, and an onion; set it over a slow fire, and when the scum is all taken off put in two or three turnips; then let the whole simmer slowly two hours, and strain the liquor through a sieve. If it is to be thickened add some oatmeal, rice, or Scotch barley. MUTTON BROTH (2). Cut a neclt of mutton into pieces, preserving a handsome piece to be served up in the tureen ; put all into a stewpan, with three quarts of cold beef stock, or water with a little oatmeal mixed in it, some turnips, onions, leeks, celery cut in pieces, and a small bunch of thyme and parsley. When it boils skim it clear, and when nearly done take out the piece you intend serving in the tureen, and let the other pieces stew till tender ; then have ready turnips cut into dice, some leeks, celery, half a cabbage, some parsley (all cut small), and some marigolds ; wash them, strain the liquor off the meat, skim it free from the fat, add it to the ingredients, with the piece of mutton intended for the tureen, and a little pearl barley. Season with salt, simmer the whole together tili done, and serve with toasted brSid on a plate. MUTTON BROTH FOR THE SICK. Have H llj- of neck or loin of mutton, take off the skin and the fat, and put it into a saucepan; cover it with cold water (about a quart to 1 lb. of meat), let it simmer very gently, and skim it well; cover it up, and set it over a moderate fire, where it may stand gently stewing for about an hour, and then strain it off. It should be allowed to become cold, when all the greasy particles will float on the surface, and, becoming hard, can be easily taken off, and the settlings will remain at the bottom. The meat must be done no more than just sufficiently to be eaten, so that a sick person may have plenty of good broth for nothing, as by this manner of producing it the meat furnishes also a good family meal. This is an inoffensive nourish- ment for sick persons, and the only mutton broth that should be given to convalescents, whose constitutions require replenishing with restorative aliment of easy digestion. The com- mon way of making it with roots, onions, sweet herbs, &c., is too strong for weak stomachs. Plain broth will agree with a delicate stomach, when the least addition of other ingredients would immediately offend it. MUTTON, CAPILLOTADE OF. Cut the remains of a quarter of mutton into pieces, and put them into a pan, with salt, pepper, nutmeg, ■white wine, stock, and a dessert-spoonful of olive oil. When about half done add 2 ozs. of raspings, cover the saucepan closely, and let it boil slowly for three or four hours ; then pour it on a dish, with its liquor and the juice of a Seville orange. MUTTON CHOPS. Cut the chops off a loin or the best end of a neck of mutton, pare off the fat, dip them into a beaten egg, and strew over them grated bread, seasoned with some pepper, salt, and some finely minced parsley; fry them in a little butter, and lay them upon the back of a sieve to drain before the fire. Thicken about half a pint of gravy, add a table-spoonful of catsup, and one of port wine ; put the gravy into a dish, and lay in the chops. Garnish with fried parsley or cut lemon MUTTON CHOPS, BAKED. Cut a neck of mutton into neat chops, and season them with salt and pepper; butter a dish, lay in the chops, and pour over them a batter made of a quart of milk, four eggs beaten up, four table-spoonsful of flour, and a little salt. An hour will bake them. MUTTON CHOPS, BROILED. Cut them about half an inch thick, and if from the loin cut off the skin and part of the fat; let the gridiron be hot, and then, having rubbed it with suet, put on the chops, and keep them turned very quickly. Take great care to prevent the fat from raising a smoke, and therefore it will be advisable to hold the gridiron in a slanting position. When done lay the chops oir a hot dish, and rub them with butter; slice a shallot very thin into a spoonful of water, and pour it on them, together with a spoonful of catsup. Serve them hot, with horseradish and pickles. MUTTON CHOPS AND CUCUMBERS. Cut cucumbers into quarters, sprinkle them with salt, and pour some vinegar over them; fry the chops brown, and lay them in a stewpan; drain the cucumbers, and put them over the chops, with sliced onion, pepper, and salt; pour hot water or broth on them, and stew them well, taking care to skim the surface all the time. MUTTON CHOPS IN DISGUISE. Take as many chops as you choose, and rub them with pepper, salt, and a little parsley; roll each chop in half a sheet of white paper w ell buttered on the inside, and rolled on each end closely. Have some hog's lard or beef dripping boiling in a frying-pan, put in the chops, fry them of a nice brown, lay them in your dish, and garnish ■with fried parsley; throw some aU over them, and have a little good gravy in a sauce-boat; but take great care that you do not break the papers, nor have any fat in the dish, but let them be well drained. MUTTON CHOPS, FRIED. Take them"