INK INK C 76 ] it is washed. For ink spots that have got dry, having mixed a little salt with some lemon juice in a glazed pipkin, heat the mixture gently over a clear fire, and then dip the stained part of the linen several times into this mixture. Before the linen is quite dry wash it in a hot lather of soap and water. The washing should be repeated two or three times till the spots disappear. What is called the essential salt of lemons, sold by chemists and perfumers, would answer the same purpose. And there is another method, slightly varied, that answers extremely well. Cut a lemon in half, and press the spotted part of the linen close over one half of the lemon till the juice penetrates through ; then place a hot iron on the linen, and the spots will soon entirely disappear. For iron moulds wet the stains with water, then lay the linen on a boiling hot water plate, and pat a little of the essential salt of lemons on it. As the part becomes dry wet it again, taking care that the water in the plate is kept boiling hot. As soon as the spots are removed wash the linen with plenty of clean water, to prevent any injury from the acid. INK, SYMPATHETIC OR SECRET. The solutions should be so nearly colourless as that the writing is not seen till the agent is applied to render it visible. 1. Digest 1 oz. of zaffre, or oxide of cobalt, at a gentle heat, with 4 ozs. of nitro-muriatic acid till no more is dissolved; then add 1 oz. of common salt and 16 ozs. of water. If this be written with, and the paper held to the fire, the writing becomes green, unless the cobalt should be quite pure, in which case it will be blue. The addition of a little nitrate of iron will impart the property of becoming green. It is used in chemical landscapes for the Ibliage. 2. Put into a phial distilled water, | oz. , bromide of potassium, 1 drachm ; and pure sul- phate of copper, 1 drachm. The solution is nearly colourless, but becomes brown when heated. 3. Boll oxide of cobalt in acetic acid. If a little common salt be added the writing becomes green when heated; but with nitre it becomes a pale rose colour. 4. A solution of acetate of lead- Colourless, but becomes brown when exposed to sulphuretted hydrogen gas. 5. A weak solution ot sulphate of copper. The writing becomes blue when exposed to the vapour of ammonia. 6. A solution of sulphate—or, preferably, per- sulphate—of iron. It becomes black when washed with ipfusion of galls; blue by prussiate cf potash. This constitutes colouiless ink, which becomes visible when written with on paper containing galls, or tannin, or prussiate of potash. 7. Mix equal quantities of sulphate of copper and sal ammoniac, and dissolve in water. It becomes yellow when heated. 8. A weak solution of nitrate of mercury. Becomes black by heat. 9. Rice water, or any solution of starch It becomes blue when washed over with an alco- holic solution of iodine. 10. Lemon juice, milk, juice of onions, and. some other liquids become black when the writing is held to the fire. INK, WRITING (Black). Take of bruised galls 3 ozs.; sulphate of iron (green copperas), logwood shavings, and gum arable, of each I oz.; vinegar, 1 quart. Dissolve the gum iu the vinegar, and then put it with the other in- gredients into a bottle, agitating them occa- sionally during twelve or fourteen days; then allow the coarser parts to settle, and pour off the ink for use. The colour of common writing ink is apt to fade. When illegible it may often be restored by washing the writing with vinegar, and after- wards with infusion of galls. Acids also destroy its colouring matter. Those inks which resist their action contain some other colouring principle, usually finely powdered charcoal. Common writing ink may, therefore, be much improved by dissolving in every quart of it 1 oz. of Indian ink. Ink Powder is made by powdering the ingre- dients above described, and mixing them in the same proportions. When used it merely requires mixing with A-inegar. Blue Ink. First levigate 1 oz. of the finest indigo in a glass mortar; then pour very gra- dually on the powder 4 ozs. of the most con- centrated vitriolic acid; and on every addition it should be stirred with a glass pestle, so that the whole mixture will require several hom's. This precaution is indispensable, as otherwise the heat generated on adding the vitriolic acid would impair the brightness of the colour. After standing from twelve to eighteen houi's in a moderately warm place this dense mixture must be diluted with water, not by adding this fluid to the composition, but by introducing small portions of the latter into a vessel con- taining such a quantity of water as may be re- quisite to produce a lighter or daiker shade. In general from thirty to forty parts of water will be necessary to reduce it to a fine blue liquid. This diluted solution of indigo is, however, m too caustic a state to be employed either as a blue dye or as writing ink. Hence the vitriolic acid ought to be divested of its corrosive quahty by means of such a substance as may form a chemical combination with the acid, and not