Vi3 G VEG [ 532 ] some thin slices of ham, dip them in egg; wrap the ham up in the veal, let them boil with a glass of white wine and the same of stock. When done skim and strain the sauce, and serve it in the dish with the veal, without adding anything else. Vegetable essences. The flavour of the various sweet and savoury herbs may be obtained by combining their essential oils with rectified spirits of wine, in the proportion of 1 drachm of the former to 2 ozs. of the latter ; or by picking the leaves, and leaving them in a warm place for two hours to dry, and then filling a large-mouthed bottle with them, and pouring on them wine, brandy, proof spirit, or vinegar, and letting them steep for fourteen days. VEGETABLE FRITTERS are made as ■with the fruit in every way—sliced, minced, or mashed: such as potatoes, beet-root, artichokes, carrot zest, scorzonera, or sorrel, must be very finely minced. They are seasoned sweet or savoury. VEGETABLE MARROW (1). The smallest are considered the best for dressing. They should be kept in hot water with a little salt, and boiled for half an hour, that they may be quite tender. Serve them on toasted bread, with plain butter in a boat. VEGETABLE MARROW (2). Cook it in the oven, or boil without breaking the skin ; cut in slices or fillets, and toss them with pep- per, salt, nutmeg, butter, marrow, or top-pot; finish with a little cream and lemon juice. Vegetable marrows make excellent soups with onions. They are in every way an excellent and elegant addition to the table, and may be dressed in tarts as frangipane. VEGETABLE MARROW (3). This vege- table is fit for use when about the size of a turkey's egg. After having been washed clean it is put on the fire in boiling water with a little salt, and when tender it is drained from the water, cut into half, and served on toasted bread, over which some melted butter has been poured. Or, after having been boiled in milk and water, they may be fricasseed as Jerusalem artichokes, or stewed like cucumbers. VEGETABLE PIE. Cut celery heads two inches long, turnips and carrots into shapes, some peeled small onions or two Spanish onions, artichoke bottoms cut into quarters, pieces of cauliflower or heads of broccoli, heads of fine asparagus, and any other vegetable you may think proper. Wash all these vegetables thoroughly clean; then boil each separately in just sufficient water to cover them, and as they get tender strain the liquor into one stewpan, and put the vegetables into another; then add to their essence half a pint of consomme, thicken it with flour, and season with salt, Cayenne, and lemon juice ; boil it for ten minutes, then strain it to the vegetables, and let them simmer together. Serve them in a raised pie crust, or in a pie dish with a raised crust baked round it. VEGETABLE SOUP. Peel and cut into slices six large onions, six carrots, and four turnips; fry them in ^Ib. of butter, and pour on them four quarts of boiling stock ; then add to these a crust of bread toasted as brown and as hard as possible (but be careful it is not burnt), some celery, sweet herbs, white pepper, and salt; let the whole stew gently for four hours, and then strain it through a coarse cloth ; have ready sliced carrot, celery, and a little nutmeg; add to them the soup, and let them stew till quite tender. Some like an anchovy and a little catsup. VEGETABLE STEW. Pick and wash very clean as much spinach as will make a dish ; mince finely three small onions ; pick and chop two handsful of parsley ; put all into a saucepan, with rather more than half a pint of gravy, a bit of butter dusted with flour, and a little salt and pepper ; cover the pan closely, Stir it now and then, and when the spinach is tender make it smooth with slices of broiled ham, or with sausages. VEGETABLES. There is nothing in which the ditference between an elegant and an ordinary table is more seen than in the dressing of vegetables, more especially gi'eens. They may be equally as fine at first at one place as at another; but their look and taste are afterwards very different, entirely from the careless way they have been cooked. They are in greatest perfection when in greatest plenty; that is, when in full season. By season we do not mean those early days that luxury in the buyers, and avarice in the sellers, require the vegetables to be forced, but that time of the year in which, by nature and common culture, and the mere operation of the sun and climate, they are in the greatest abund- ance and perfection. As to the quality of vegetables, the middle- sized are preferred to the largest or the smallest: they are more tender, juicy, and full of flavour just before they are quite full grown. Fresh- ness is their chief value and excellence, and we should as soon think of roasting an animal alive as of boiling a vegetable after it is dead. The eye easily discovers if they have been kept too long : they soon lose their beauty in all respects. Roots, greens, salad, and the various pro- ductions of the garden, when first gathered, are plump and firm, and have a fragrant freshness no art can give them again when they have lost it by long keeping, though it will refresh them