GEA [ 3 ] GRA On the contrary, of compound sauces the ingredients should be so nicely proportioned that no one be predominant, so that from the equal union of the combined flavours such a fine mixture is produced, that its very novelty cannot fail of being acceptable to the persevering gourmand, if it had not pretensions to a perma- nent place at his table. An ingenious cook will form as endless a variety of these compositions as a musician with his seven notes, or a painter with his colours : no part of her business offers so fair and frequent an opportunity to display her ability. Spices, herbs, &c., are often very absurdly and injudi- ciously jumbled together. Why have clove and allspice, or mace and nutmeg in the same sauce? or marjoram, thyme, and savory? or onions, leeks, eschalots, and garlic? One will very well supply the place of the other, and the frugal cook may save something considerable by attending to this, to the advantage of her employers and her own time and trouble. GRAVY. Take 3 lbs. of beefsteaks, two rabbits, excepting the heads and breasts, a knuckle of veal, five carrots, six onions, two cloves, two bay leaves, a bunch of parsley, and scallions; put all these into a stewpan, with two ladlesful of broth, and set them over a good fire to reduce; then cover the stove, and let the stewpan stand over it until the meat begins to give out the gravy and adheres slightly. The jelly at the bottom of the stewpan ought to be nearly black, and when that is the case take it from the stove, let it stand for ten minutes, and then fill up the stewpan with good broth or water: if the latter not so large a quantity. Let it simmer for three hours, skim, and season it well. If water is used instead of broth the gravy must be strained before it is used. GRAVY, or Rich Cullis. Cut into slices some lean beef, veal, and mutton, and cover the bottom of the saucepan with the veal; then put in a few slices of salt pork, next a layer of beef, add a few onions sliced, the red part of one or two carrots, a little mace, two or three cloves, some whole pepper, two or three bay leaves, and above that the mutton. Cover the pan closely, set it on a slow fire, and when the meat is a fine brown mix quite smooth a small quantity of flour in water; stir it in, and then add as much boiling water as will cover the meat well, and a little salt; cover the pan closely, let it stew an hour and a half, strain, and keep it for use. It will continue good for eight or ten days. GRAVY FOR BOILED MEAT may be made with parings and trimmings, or pour from a quart to half a pint of the liquor in which tlie meat was boiled into the dish with it, and pierce the inferior of the joint with a sharp skewer. GRAVY, CLEAR. Slice some beef thinly, broil a part of it over a very clear quick fire just enough to give colour to the gravy, but do not dress it; put that and the raw meat into a very nicely tinned stewpan, with a couple of onions, one or two cloves, whole black pepper, berries of allspice, and a bunch of sweet herbs; cover it with hot water, give it one boil, and skim it two or three times; then cover it, and let it simmer till quite strong. GRAVY D'ETOUFFADE. Take a leg of beef, and lard it with fat ham, a few cloves of garlic, and the same number of cloves; put half a dozen large onions into a stewpan, with the beef, six or eight berries of allspice, a little nutmeg, half a bottle of Madeira wine, and some consomme; boil over a large fire until reduced to a jelly, then place your stewpan over a stove, and cover it with hot ashes; leave it for some time, and when it is of a dark colour, without being either bitter or burnt, moisten it with broth, and add some veal or fowl trimmings. When the whole is sufficiently done strain it through a cloth, set it on the edge of the stove, take off the fat, add two or three ladlesful of Espagnole to it, and reduce it to the proper consistence. GRAVY, ESSENCE OF HAM FOR. Pick off all the bits of meat from a ham bone, pound them, break the bone, and put all into a saucepan together, with nearly half a pint of water and a bunch of sweet herbs. Simmer gently for some time, stirring it occasionally; then add a pint of good beef gravy and some pepper, and continue to simmer till it is well flavoured with the herbs ; strain, and keep it for improving rich gravies and sauces of all descriptions. GRAA^Y FOR A FOWL WITHOUT MEAT. Nicely wash the feet of a fowl, and cut them and the neck into small pieces ■; sim- mer them with a little browned bread, a slice of onion, a bit of parsley, thyme, some pepper and salt, and the liver and gizzard in a quarter of a pint of water till they are reduced to half; take out the liver, bruise it, and strain the liquor to it; then thicken it with flour and butter, and add a tea-spoonful of mushroom catsup. GRAVY WITHOUT MEAT. Take a basin, and put into it a glass of table beer, a glass of water, some pepper, salt, lemon-peel grated, a bruised clove or two, and a spoonful of walnut pickle or mushroom catsup ; cut an onion into slices, flour them, and fry them in apiece of butter until they are brown; then turn all the above into a small tosser with the onion, and simmer (covered) for twenty minutes ; strain it off for use, and when it is cold take off the fat. GRAVY, PETITS PATfiS OF. Roll some puff paste to a proper thickness, and cut it