[ 518 ] VOM WAF A vomiting wnich proceeds from acidities in the stomach is relieved by alkaline purges. The best medicine of this kind is the magnesia alba, a tea-spoonful of which may be taken in a dish of tea or a little milk three or four times a day, or oftener if necessary, to keep the body open, or any of the cretaceous mixtures recom- mended in Diarrhoea. When vomiting proceeds from violent passions or affections of the mind all evacuants must be carefully avoided, especially vomits. These are exceedingly dangerous. The patient in this case ought to be kept perfectly easy and quiet, to have the mind soothed, and to take some gentle cordial, as negus, or a little brandy and water, to which a few drops of laudanum may occasionally be added. When vomiting proceeds from spasmodic affections of the stomach, musk, castor, and other antispasmodic medicines are of use. Warm and aromatic plasters have likewise a good effect. Aromatic medicines may also be taken inwardly, as cinnamon or mint tea, wine with spiceries boiled in it, &c. The region of the stomach may be rubbed with ether, or, if that cannot be had, with strong brandy or other spirits. The belly should be fomented Avith warm water, or the patient immersed up to the breast in a warm bath. Saline draughts, taken in the act of effer- vescence, are of singular use in stopping a vomiting from whatever cause it proceeded. These may be prepared by dissolving 1 drachm of the subcarbonate of potash in oz of fresh lemon juice, and adding to it 1 oz- of pepper- mint water, the same quantity of simple cinna- mon water, and a little white sugar. This draught must be swallowed before the effer- vescence is quite over, and may be repeated every two hours, or oftener if the vomiting be violent. A violent vomiting has sometimes been stopped by cupping on the region of the stomach after all other means had failed. As the least motion will often bring on the vomiting again, even after it has been stopped, the patient must avoid all manner of action. The diet must be so regulated as to sit easy upon the stomach, and nothing should be taken that is hard of digestion. We do not, however, mean that the patient should live entirely upon slops. Solid food in this case often sits easier on the stomach than liquids. VOMITS. Bee Emetics. WAFERS. We are indebted to Mr. Cooley's " Cyclopaedia of Practical Receipts" for the following directions:— Flodr Wafers. Mix fine wheat flour wiLli water to a smooth pap, add colouring as re- quired, pass the mixture through a sieve to remove any clots or lumps, fill the " wafer- irons " (previously warmed, and greased with butter or olive oil) with the batter, close them tightly, and expose them for a short time to the heat of a clear charcoal fire. The whole must then be allowed to cool, when the irons must be opened, and the thin cake, which is now hard and brittle, must be cut into wafers by means of sharp annular steel punches. The " wafer- irons" consist of two plates of iron, united together in a similar manner to a pair of pincers or tongs, and which, when closed, leave a space between their internal surface proper for the thickness of wafers. Gelatine, Glue, or Transparent. Dissolve isinglass or the best pale glue in sufficient water to form a consistent mass when cold, pour it while hot upon the surface of a warm plate of mirror glass slightly oiled, and surrounded with a border of card paper (laid flat); next apply a similar plate, also warmed and oiled, and press the two into as close contact as is permitted by the card paper. When cold the thin cake of gelatine must be removed, and cut into wafers with punches as before. Medallion. Colour Salisbury glue ; fill up the hollow part of a seal with gum water mixed with any coloured powder, leaving the flat part clear; then pour as much of the melted coloured glue on the seal as will lie upon it, and let it dry in a gentle heat. When used, wet the paper where the wafer is to be applied, and place the back of the wafer upon the wet paper. The colouring matters employed for wafers are the following:—Hed, a decoction of Brazil wood brightened with alum ; yellow, a decoction of French berries, or an infusion of saffron or turmeric ; blue, sulphate of indigo diluted with water, and partly saturated with potash; green, blue and yellow mixed. Vermilion, gamboge, smalts, &c., are also used for the best wafers. WAFERS, GERMAN. Take 17 ozs. of sifted flour and half a pint of ^good yeast, which make into a paste with as much warm milk as will make it run from the spoon freely without being too clear; then put it into a warm place. When it has risen well add to it the yolks of fourteen eggs well beaten, the whites whipped to a snow, and the grated rinds of two lemons. The whole being well mixed, pour over it 17 ozs. of fresh butter melted, but not too hot; stir it gently with a wooden spoon, and put the preparation again into a warm place to rise a second time. When it has risen suffi- ciently, and your pan is quite hot, rub the batter with butter, fill it with the paste, set it over a brisk fire, and fry your wafers: make