TAF TAP [ 479 ] all the time, for fifteen minutes ; then put in a tea-cupful of sugar, and let it boil fifteen minutes longer, stirring all the time; take a little out on a plate, and when it is brittle pour it while hot into tin plates rubbed with butter; put it in a cold place, and break it up when you want it for use. Never put taffey in china or earthen plates, as they would probably be broken in taking it out. Some think it an improvement to add the kernels of walnuts nicely picked : put them in just as you take up the taffey, and give one stir. A tea-cupful of kernels to a pint of molasses is a good proportion. TAFFEY (2). Boil together ] lb. of sugar and 5 ozs. of butter for twenty minutes; then stir in 2 ozs. of almonds blanched, divided, and thoroughly dried in a slow oven or before the fire. Let the taffey boil after they are added till it crackles when dropped into cold water, and snaps between the teeth without sticking. . TAFFEY, EVERTON. Put into a brass skillet or preserving-pan 3 ozs. of the best fresh butter, and as soon as it is just melted add 1 lb. of brown sugar of moderate quality ; keep these gently stirred over a clear fire for about fifteen minutes, or until a little of the mixture, dropped into a basin of cold water, breaks clean between the teeth without slicking to them. When it has boiled to this point it must be poured out im- mediately, or it will burn. The grated rind of a lemon, added when the taffey is half done, improves it very much; or a small tea-spoonful of powdered ginger, moistened with a little of the other ingredients as soon as the sugar is dissolved, and then stirred to the whole, will vary it pleasantly to many tastes. The real Everton taffey is made, we apprehend, with a much larger proportion of butter, but it is the less wholesome on that very account. If dropped upon dishes first rubbed with a buttered paper, the taffey, when cold, can be raised from them easily. TAINT. (See Meat: To Remove Taint FROM.) Chloride of lime or of soda, mi.xed in the water in which meat is washed, also removes any putrescent smell from it. TALLOW. See Candles. TAMIS, or Tammy, is a woollen cloth usually sold at Italian warehouses for straining gravies and sauces. It is best used by one person hold- ing two of the corners together, and a second person similarly holding the other two: the sauce being put in, the two persons to twist the tammy gently in opposite directions. TANNING. See Leather. TANSY FRITTERS. Pound some tansy with a few almonds, a carp roe, and the crumb of a small loaf; mix the paste with some powder sucar and a little rose water, fry the fritters in butter, drain, sprinkle sugar over, and serve them very hot. TANSY PUDDING. Beat up the yolks of twelve and the whites of four eggs, to which put a quart of cream; colour with spinach juice, and flavour with tansy juice ; add a little salt, some nutmeg, and a good pinch of flour; put this into a dish lined with light puff paste, and bake in a brisk oven : it will take half an hour's baking. Serve to table, garnished with Seville orange cut in slices, and candied peel. TAP, or Stop-cock. We need only note some of the variations in the construction of this contrivance for permitting and preventing the outflow of liquids. Its nose is curved downwards for the purpose of better directing the liquid into the jug or other receiver; but this nose is very conveniently narrowed into a tube form to enter the mouth of bottles, and thus rendering the use of a funnel needless. Longitudinal furrows ought to be cut on the outside of such a tubular nose, to allow the air to escape from the bottle as the liquor fills it. Taps without down-turned noses are for soldering at both ends into leaden pipes. For tanks taps are made with a shoulder or flange to press against the outside of the tank, whilst the end of the tap inside the tank is threaded, and a nut fitting to this screws up the tap tightly to the tank side. The part of a tap which by turning allows the liquor to flow is called the plug. When this by wear or corrosion becomes loose, and allows a leakage, the riveted bottom should be filed so as to allow of the plug being driven out and re- ground. To facilitate taking out the plug this is sometimes held in its place by a screw in its lower end. We cannot find space for a descrip- tion of the many patented forms of taps ; but we will warn our readers against those lined with cork, for from various causes they are especially liable to be out of order. There are also various taps invented for the purpose of avoid- ing the need of a vent-peg. Thesa are some- times called syphon cocks. The plugs fitted wiih movable keys are very slight protection against unwished-for abstractions from the beei'-barrel. Mr. Russell's pinned plug, described in the thirty-seventh volume of the " Transactions of the Society of Arts." is a much better security. Taps are usually the dearest which cost the least. Tliey ought to be of the finest brass, and accurately and strongly made. For vinegar they should be made of white-alloyed metal. Cast-iron taps are to be had, and are very durable. For veiy corrosive liquids, and even for vinegar, Ridgway's porcelain taps should bo employed. TAPE-WORM. See Worms. TAPIOCA PUDDING (1). Put four tabic-