liOA EOL [ 402 ] Bi'zes, according to the bulk of the joint and the degi"ee of heat necessary to be kept up for dress- ing it, after which wet the cinders and throw them on the back. Be careful to avoid putting any meat before a hollow or exhausted fire, which will soon want recruiting; and, if the heat becomes too fierce while you are roasthig, take oft the spit to a considerable distance till it is somewhat abated. ' If the article to be dressed is thin and delicate the fire must be little and brisk; and, on the contrary, when your joint is large, the fire must be strong and equally clear in every part of the grate. Stir it well before the joint is put down, watch it from time to time, keep it clear at the bottom, and take care that there are no sm.oky coals in the front. Avoid putting the meat too near at first, and the larger the joint is the farther off it must be kept; for, should it be scorched, the outside will become hard, and have an unpleasant taste, nor will the meat be well done. The usual distance that the meat should be kept from the fire is between ten and fourteen inches, or a foot upon an average. After being put down it must be placed nearer, according as the joint will bear the heat. The dripping-pan should be kept off, so aa larely to catch what falls from the meat; for if it is too near the grate the ashes will fall into it, and spoil the contents; and if, again, it is too far from the fire, the fat, from falling on the live cinders, will be lost, and yield, besides, a stinking smoke injurious to the meat. The best size for a dripping-pan is twenty- eight inches by twenty inches, with a covered well on the side farthest from the fire to collect the fat. In a pan of this descrip- tion fried fish may be occasionally laid, and various kinds of dishes to keep hot. A good meat screen is indispensably necessary to guard what is dressed from external air, and to condense the heat. It should go upon wheels, not be less than three feet and a half in width, and will be better if it has shelves and hooks, so as to make it answer all the purposes of a Dutch oven. The jack should be kept as clean as possible, oiled, and wiped. After the meat is done cover it up, and take off the fliers, to prevent their gathering dust. In roasting it is impossible to lay down any specific rules for time; but if the fire is pro- perly kept up according to the preceding direc- tions, and the meat is not frozen, from fifteen to twenty minutes for each pound may be con- sidered generally sufficient. When the meat is half done remove the spit and pan back; stir up the fire well, that it may burn clear and bright for the browning, and when the steam draws towards the grate it is a sign of being nearly, if not quite done. The rising of the steam is a sure criterion that tha joint is thoroughly impregnated with the heat, and therefore any further evaporation is not only unnecessary, but an actual waste. Half an hour before the meat is done make your gravy, and just before taking up the joint put it nearer the fire to be browned. To raise a froth upon the surface baste it with butter, and dredge it with just enough flour to give it a light varnish. Observe that old meat does not require so much roasting as young, for this reason—that it can be eaten with more of the gravy in it. As some families do not possess the con- venience of a jack and spit, it is proper to add a remark in this place on the simple method of roasting by a string. Previously to putting down your meat to the fire pass a strong skewer through each end of the joint, by which meanSj when it is half done, it can be easily turned, and so as to preserve the gravy. A bottle-jack or Dutch oven is exceedingly useful for roasting ordinary joints. In all cases let the cook bear in mind that good roasting depends upon time, distance, fre- quent basting, and a clear fire. To keep meat hot take it up as soon as done ; and if the com- pany be not come set it in a pan of boiling water, cover it with another, and spread a cloth over all. By this way the gravy will be kept from drying up. ROCAMBOLE. Peel some rocamboles, and put them into a saucepan of boiling water; set them on the fire until they will yield easily to pressure, then throw them into cold water. Reduce some veloute, thicken it a little, and the rocamboles being cold, drain and put them in; give them a toss over the fire, and serve. ROCHE ALUM. See Alum. ROCHE'S EMBROCATION. .5^eeHooPiN& Cough. ROLLS, FRENCH (1). Mix rather more than I oz. of coarse salt with 8 lbs. of sifted flour; make a hole in the middle, and pour about half a pint of good yeast, the well-beatea whites of four eggs, and as much new milk warmed as will mix it to a middling stiffness; clap and work it down one way for half an hour, but do not knead it; cover it with a warm towel, and let it rise before the fire for half an hour; take off the surface, which soon becomes hard, and put it aside to be made into a roll; work and clap the dough, form it into rolls, place them upon tins, and let them rise for ten minutes. Bake them in a quick oven. ROLLS, FRENCH (2). Rub 1 oz. of butter in 1 lb. of flour, then add to it one egg beaten, some-yeast that is not bitter, and a sufficient