P 0 s [ 352 ] POT threads. Porter was introduced in 172Q by Harwood, a London brewer, and being con- sumed largely by the London porters, thence received its name. It may be made of the following ingredients : — Pale malt, 1 bushel ; amber malt, 1 bushel; brown malt, I bushel. Mash at twice with 1 barrel and f barrel of water. Boil with 2 lbs. of brovvu Kent hops. Ferment with 1^ lb. of yeast. Conduct the different processes as directed for Brewing. To convert porter into stout add 5 quarts of treacle, 5 pints of colouring [see Ale), and i pint of finings, to a barrel of porter. Mix all together thoroughly, let it rest for a week, and then rack it off into another cask. POST. See Letters. POSTURES. Standing, though useful as a change after long sitting, is apt to occasion accumulations of blood, or rather the serous part of it, in the lower extremities. Swelled legs are, therefore, common among printers. It is a posture little calculated to relieve the studious, and the body is, at the same time, more fatigued by standing than sitting. If we sit much we must attend to the two follow- ing rules: firstly, that no part of the body be compressed ; and secondly, that sitting be not too long continued at one time. The common manner of sitting with the head reclined is ex- tremely pernicious, for the circulation of the fluids in the abdomen is thus checked, the intestines are compressed, and the vessels of the breast contracted. The head also suffers by bending it too much forward, as the blood is thus impelled to circulate towards it more copiously than is consistent with health. The studious especially would do well not to perform all their avocations in a sedentary posture, but occasionally to relieve at once their body and mind by stand- ing or walking about the room. The mode of sitting ought also to be made as convenient as possible, so that both the body and head may be kept in an almost perpendicular posture; that the breast and abdomen may not be obstructed in their alternate expansion ; and lastly, that the arms and legs may not be held in a crooked and unnatural position. All this should be particularly attended to by those who teach children to read and write. The pressure of the abdominal muscles may in a great measure be prevented by high tables and desks, and by raised stools or chairs, upon which a person rather stands than sits. To lie or rest horizontally is attended with a cessation of all exercise. If the head be placed low, and this too long continued, headache may be the consequence, from the increased pressure of the blood on the brain. Here, likewise, a frequent change of posture is necessary, in order to obstruct none of the bodily functions, and to prevent the stagnation of humours, POT POURRI. For the following we are indebted to Beasley's " Druggist's General Receipt Book:"—Gather in the season the petals of the most fragrant kinds of roses, with which other flowers may be mixed at pleasure in smaller proportion ; spread them out to dry in the sun, or in a warm room ; sprinkle a little salt on them, and put them into a jar, in which they are to be kept covered up till wanted for use. Take of these rose leaves 4 ozs. ; dried lavender flowers, 8 ozs.; vanilla, cloves, storax, and benzoin, all bruised, of each 1 drachm ; ambergris, 20 grains ; otto of roses, 20 drops. Mix. Or, calamus root, yellow sanders, of each 1 oz. ; vanilla, 1 drachm; musk, 8 grains ; amber- gris, 8grains ; cascarilla, 1 oz.; orris root, 3 ozs.; cinnamon, 1 oz. ; lavender flowers, 1 oz. ; storax, benzoin, cloves, of each 2 drachms; coriander seeds, 1 oz.; nutmeg, 2 drachms; otto of roses, 20 drops; oil of Deroli, 10 drops. The dry ingredients to be coarsely bruised. Mix. Or, orris root, 16 ozs.; dried acacia flowers, 8 ozs.; dried bergamot peel, 2 ozs.; musk seed, ^ oz.; cloves, i oz. Pound them together. Pot Poueri, French. Take the petals of the pale and red roses, pinks, violets, moss rose, orange flower, lily of the valley, acacia flowers, clove gillyflowers, mignonette, heliotrope, and jonquils, with a small proportion of the flowers of myrtle, balm, rosemary, and thyme ; spread them out for some days, and as they become dry put them into a jar with alternate layers of dry salt, mixed with orris powder, till the vessel is full. Shut it up for a month, then stir the whole up, and moisten it with rose water. Sachets, or Scent Bags. The pot pourri of the preceding receipts may be put into bags alone, or with any other perfume to increase the strength. POTAGE ITALIEN. Take carrots, turnips, onions, pai'snips, celery, lettuce, and sorrel in equal quantities ; boil them in salt and water, and then put them into fresh water; cut the roots in slices of an equal length, and then cut them finer. Cut the sorrel, lettuce, and celery in the same manner; wash the whole in a quantity of water, drain them, put i lb. of butter into a stewpan, and give them a slight colour over a furnace: moisten them with a ladleful of bouillon or stock. When half done put in the sorrel, let it simmer till done enough, and skim. Have ready at the time of serving a millonage, and pour it over. POTAGE A LA PEINE. Cut out the breasts of three fowls, bard with bacon and paper, roast or braise them in a stewpan, which must be covered with ham, veal, one onion,