L E M [ 1^0 ] LE M then powder all the pound of sugar, and squeeze among it (through a strainer) the juice of the lemons, mixing it well in. Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth that will stand alone; then beat in very hard the sugar, &c., a tea-spoonful at a time. Lay a sheet of white paper on a board, drop the mixture on it in oval piles, smoothing them with a broad- bladed knife dipped frequently in cold water; set them in a moderate oven, and w'hen they are coloured a light brown take them out; slip a knife carefully under each to remove them from the papers, and place two bottoms together, so «s to give them the form of an egg. If you use oi'anges scoop out a small hollow in the bottom of each half kiss as soon as they are baked, and fill the cavity with orange pulp sweetened; then join the two halves together. LEMON LOAVES. Cut the fruit in halves, squeeze them, and preserve the liquor; takeout the pulp, boil the peels till the bitter is ex- tracted, and lay them in a syrup for two days; then boil the syrup they have laid in till it is of a good consistence, add the peels, and put them into glasses for use. When they are wanted take a sufficient quantity for a dish, and fill them with some pudding mixture, either marrow, bread, plum, &c., or with a custard, and bake them with the greatest care. LEMON MAKMALADE. Take half a dozen lemons, grate off two of the rinds, then cut them all, and pick out the inside from the skin and seeds; put to them the grated leinon, and about half a pint of pippin jelly; take the same weight of sugar as of the inside ; boil the sugar to a very strong souffle; then put it to the inside, and boil all very quickly until it becomes a jelly, which may be ascertained by dipping in the skimmer, and holding it up to drain : if it is sufficiently jellied it will break from the skim- mer in flakes, and if not it will run off in little streams. When done put it into glasses or pots. LEMON MINCE PIES. Squeeze out the juice from a large lemon ; boil the outside till sufficiently tender to beat to a mash; add to it three large apples chopped, 4 ozs. of suet, •I lb. of currants, and 4 ozs. of sugar ; put in the juice of the lemon, and add candied fruit the same as for other pies. Make a short crust, and fill the patty pans in the usual manner. LEMON PASTE. Cut off the ends of the lemons, and run them through and through with a long pin; put them on the fire in water, and boil them till tender; then take them out, lay them in cold water a minute, put them into a cloth, and press out the water. Pound and rub them through a sieve, mixing them with double the quantity of sugar boiled to grande plume. Set the whole on the fire to simmer, stirring con- fitaatly. LEMON PASTILLES (1). Grate the rind of a lemon without any of the white, and infuse it in a glass of water with ^ oz. of gum dragon. When the latter is completely dis solved press it through a cloth, put it into a mortar, and work it up with the sugar to a proper consistence ; then form it into pastilles according to your fancy, and drj'them in the oven. LEMON PASTILLES (2). Take \ lb. of pounded loaf sugar sifted as finely as possible, and put it in a plate ; take three or four lemons, and squeeze their juice over the sugar; mix it well with a spoon till you make it a rather thick paste, so that you can take it up on a knife; then take half a sheet of paper, and cover it with little round and flat drops about the size of a sixpence; place them in a stove with a slow fire till they are quite dry, and then take them off the paper. You may use if you please some of the peel gi^ated, but not chipped; for, as it is a melting pastille, some of the bits would remain in the mouth. LEMON-PEEL, CANDIED (1). Take some thick-rinded lemons, pare off the yellow peel, and throw it into boiling water till soft, when it must be put into cold water. Clarify- some fine sugar, boil it to petite lisse, and, having drained the lemon-peel, pour it on the syrup whilst hot. The next day boil the syrup again, and return it to the peel. The third and fourth days proceed in the same manner, adding a small quantity of clarified sugar. The last time the syrup is boiled, as soon as it rises to perle, put in the peel, cover and boil the whole together once, and when cold drain and dry them in a stove. LEMON-PEEL, CANDIED (2). Take some lemon-peels, clean them well from the pulp, and let them lie two days in salt and water; then scald and drain them dry; boil them in a thin syrup till they look quite clear, after which take them out, and have ready a thick syrup made with fine loaf sugai-; put them into it, and simmer them till the sugar candies about the pan and peels ; then lay them sepa- rately ou a hair sieve to drain, strew sifted sugar over them, and set them to dry in a slow oven. LEMON-PEEL AU CARAMEL. Take some veiy dry preserved lemon-peel, and cut it into several small square pieces; put these pieces each on the point of little sticks kept for this purpose, and dip them in caramel sugar. LEMON-PEEL, ESSENCE OF. Having cleaned and dried the lemons, rub them with a piece of lump sugar till all the yellow is cleaned off; then lay the mixture in a pot,, press it down, and keep it for use. Seville oranges may be adopted instead of lemons. LEMON-PEEL, RATAFIA OF. Grate the yellow rind only of seven or eight lemons, and