POR POR [ 351 ] PORK AND PEAS. Take 2 lbs. of the belly part of pickled pork, but if it is too salt let it lie in water the night before it is used. Put on the ingredients, as already directed for Pea Soup, in three quarts of water ; boil gently two hours, then put in the pork, and continue boiling gently till it is done enough, which will be in about an hour and a half or two hours. When done wash the meat clean in hot water, serve it up in a dish by itself, and the soup in a tureen. PORK, PICKLED : To Boil. Let it lie in salt eight or ten days, and before it is dressed soak it in cold water half an hour. Allow a quarter of an hour to every pound, and half an hour additional from the time it boils up. Skim the pot frequently, and take care that it has plenty of water, some of which, when done, may be saved for pea soup. Some cooks boil a leg of pork in a floured cloth to give it a white appearance. Serve it with peas pudding, and turnips or parsnips. PORK PIE. Cut into chops a piece of loin of pork, with the rind and part of the under bone cut off; season them with pepper and salt, cover them with puff paste, bake the pie, and when ready to be served put in some cuUis, with the essence of two onions and a little mustard mixed with it. PORK PIE, CHESHIRE. Skin a loin of pork, cut it into steaks, which season with salt, nutmeg, and pepper; make a good crust; put into the dish first a layer of pork, then a layer of pippins pared and cored, with sufficient sugar to sweeten the pie, and then a layer of pork; put in half a pint of wine, some butter on the top, and close your pie. If it is a large one it will require a pint of wine. PORK, POTTED. Cut the meat from a leg of pork into pieces, pound it very well in a mortar, season it well with salt and pepper, then mix the meat with rosemary and sage shred small, and put it into a pot to bake, with 1 lb. of butter. When it comes out of the oven drain it from the gravy, and press it down closely in a dry pot; then, having skimmed off all the butter from the gravy, clarify as much more butter as will cover the meat an inch thick in the pot; cover the pot with wet paper, and set it in a cool place. PORK SAUSAGES. Take 2 lbs. of lean pork, 3 lbs. of chine fat free from skin, some sage leaves chopped fine, pounded cloves, pepper, and salt; he&t it fine, and either press it into pots, and roll it when it is used, or put it into skins. PORK, SHOULDER AND BREAST OF. Put them into pickle, or the shoulder may be salted as a leg. When they are very nice they may be roasted PORK, SPARERIB OF. See Spareeib. PORK STEAKS. Cut them off the neck or loin of the thickness of half an inch. When the gridiron is hot rub it with suet, lay the steaks thereon, and keep turning them quickly, taking care that no fat drops from them into the fire to raise a smoke, which may be pre- vented in some degree by holding the gridiron slopingly. When done put some good gravy to them, and, that they may have an agreeable flavour, strew over them a little dry sage pul- verised. PORKER'S HEAD: To Roast. Take a fine young head, thoroughly clean it, and add bread and sage the same as for a sucking pig ; sew it up tightly, roast it like a pig on a string or hanging-jack, and serve it with the same sauce as for a pig. PORRIDGE. See Milk and Oatmeal Por- EIDGE. PORT is so called from being shipped at Oporto. It is produced in the province of Upper Douro, under a monopoly granted by the government to the Oporto Wine Company in 1756, and this company has the exclusive com- merce of the wine part. Its members are bound to take the wine of each cultivator at a fixed price, and the cultivator cannot sell it to any other person but through the company, who receive a toll of six per cent, upon the value of the sale. A certain district is marked out by its charter as the only one on the Douro in which wine is to be raised for exportation, and the entire and absolute disposal of the wine produced in this district is in the hands of the company. The country is divided into districts, one of which furnishes the wines called Vintos de Feitoria, and the other Vintos de Ramo. The first are much superior in quality to the other ; they ferment longer in the vat, and when barreled one-twelfth part of strong brandy is added. These wines are first very high-coloured, firm, and too fiery; but, when matured by keeping in casks and bottles, the brandy ceases to be tasted, their colours weaken, they become fine and delicate, and have spirit and flavour. The Vintos de Ramo, among which some are very good, ferment 'a shorter time, and are less brandied : some even have none. Butthese wines are considered inferior, and form the common drink of the country. The best variety of port in the Upper Douro is Pezo de Regua, and is considered superior to any other wine of the factory. PORTER was at first called entire, or entire butt, because drawn from one cask ; whereas ale, beer, and twopenny, which had previously been in common use, were usually mixed in various proportions, and went by the corre- sponding names of half-and-half and three-