[ 195 J MAT M E A mix. Dose, a tea-spooiiful every three hours initil it operates well, the preceding electuary ■having heen previously taken as directed. • MATLOCK WATER. The village of Mat- lock, romantically situated iu a hilly part of Derhyshire, presents to the eye of taste one of the most striking spots of picturesque sceneiy. It possesses several cool springs, the waters of which are conveyed into baths for medical purposes. The temperature, according lo Dr. i'ercival, is usually at 06°. The Matlock water is, therefore, the lowest in temperature of the English thermal waters. It is remarkably clear, has no particular taste, and mixes well with milk. Its specific gravity is but a Yei"y few grains greater than that of distilled water. Its foreign contents (probably the muriate of soda and the carbonate of lime) are, therefore, so trifling, that the medical virtues of this water may be safely ascribed to its purity and temperature. It is principally employed as a bath, and is beneficial in all cases of debility occurring in delicate constitutions, that cannot support the ^ shock of the ordinary cold bath. It forms, on this account, a good intermediate bath between Bath or Buxton and the sea, and may be em- ployed to prepare the invalid for the latter. As an internal remedy it may be used in all cases where a mere diluent, having a tendency to the skin, is required. MATS. These articles, used for wiping the dirt from the shoes, are made of various mate- rials. Those placed in the entrance of the hall ■ are of a coarser and rougher kind ; others of a finer sort are placed at the foot of staircases, ' and at the entrance of apartments. A very coarse mat of German origin, called here the ' chain mat, is made of tarred rope, or of cocoa- nut fibre, which is very durable, and calculated for places where much dirt is made : first a rope goes round the outside to form the boundaiy of the mat, and the same kind of i-ope fills up the interior in zigzag lines, being.fixed with cord in that position, or in any other pattern that may be suggested. As there are interstices between the ropes the dirt falls down in the cavities, and when these are full the mat is easily cleaned by lifting up and shaking. It is obvious that persons in the country who wish to be economical could easily construct mats upon this principle either of old rope, plaited straw, or any similar material. The most serviceable coarse door mats are made of cocoa-nut fibre ; a finer kind is made of the same with white worsted-coloured borders, woven so as to have a brush-like appearance. A very cheap kind is likewise made of straw, or of a kind of tough grass. Fine mats to put before the doors of apartments are made of Indian grass, and are called grass mats; and a still finer kind, or rather ruffs, are made of skins of sheep with the wool on, dyed and pi'epared. Besides these there are merino fringe mats, fancy and worsted mats, Lapland skin, &,c. The skins of sheep and lambs with the wool on are made into door rugs by a patent process, which we shall describe, as one that may be found useful in certain situations. The skins with the wool on are thoroughly cleansed from all impurities and foreign matter that mny adhere to them by washing in running water, by scraping the flesh side in the usual manner with the knife, and by cutting off all the extraneous and ragged parts, when they are ready to be tanned. For that purpose they are stretched upon frames, and laid upon trestles with the flesh side upwards; an infusion of sumach, in the proportion of one pound to a gallon of water, is then poured over the skin, and the tanning matter is worked into the pores of the skin by the aid of the knife. When dry, the reverse, or wool side of the skin, is next placed upwards, and thoroughly washed with a strong alkaline lye, or soap and water, and after- wards in clean water, by which means the grease and filth are removed. When dry the skin undergoes a second operation of tanning with sumach as before mentioned, and, after being dried, its harsh and rigid surface is ren- dered smooth and soft by rubbing it over with pumice-stone. In order to dye it of any colour, before it is taken off the frame its face or woolly part is dipped into a bath of the required tint, ■prepared in the ordinary manner for dying wool, the washing must now be again repeated to get rid of the excess of colourrng matter which adheres to it. The skins are then dried and trimmed to the proper shape.—{Webxter and Parhes' Ena/clopcedia of Domestic Economy.) MATTHEWS' PILLS. 1 tie sa.me iis Star- key's pills. Black hellebore root powdered, liquorice root powdered, Castile soap, turmeric powder, opium powdered, and syrup of saffron. Take of each of these \ oz., and make the whole with oil of turpentine into a mass fit for forming pills. Dose, from one to three pills of 3 grains each. They are anodvne and alterative. MATTING. See Carpets. MATTRESS. See Bedding. MEAD. To 120 gallons of pure water (the softer the better) put 15 gallons of clarified honey ; well mix the honey with the water; then fill your copper (it should hold about 60 gallons), and boil it till it is reduced about a fourth part; then drain it off, and boil the remainder of the liquor in the same manner. When the last is about a fourth part wasted fill up the copper with some of that which was boiled first, and continue boiling and filling up