SCO [ 422 ] SCO the veil through it; then ciap it between the hands, and frame or pin it out. To clean white satin, silks, dc. Make a solu- tion of the finest hard curd soap, and, when at a hand heat, handle the article through it, drawing it through the hand. If any particular spots appear they must be dipped in the liquor, and gently rubbed by the hand : two or three such liquors are sometimes necessary. The article must afterwards be rinsed in lukewarm water, then dried and finished by being pinned out, and the flossy or bright side well brushed with a clean clothes brush the way of the nap : the more it is brushed the more beautiful it will appear. It may then be calendered ; or it may be finished by dipping a sponge into a little size, made by boiling isinglass in water, and rubbing the wrong side. The articles must be then pinned out a second time, again brushed, and dried near the fire, or in a warm room. This process is chiefly for satin : silks are done in the same way, but not brushed. White satins may also be cleaned by strewing on them French chalk in powder, and then brushing it off with a hard brush. Coloured silks will require different processes, but, in general, 1 oz. of soft soap dissolved in a sufficient quantity of boiling water, and beaten till a strong lather rises on it, in which, when at a hand heat, the article may be immersed and rubbed, and afterwards rinsed in lukewarm water, will answer for common colours, care being taken to go through the process quickly, to guard against the discharge of the colour. In order, however, more effectually to j)revent Buch accident, a pan of water slightly acidulated with oil of vitriol should be at hand, in which all bright yellows, crimsons, maroons, and scarlets should be dipped : orange, fawn, brown, or shades from such colours, do not require the acid. A bright scarlet will require a solution of tin, (See above.) Blues, purples, and their shades require a solution of white curd soap, and a small quantity of good pearlash. Black silk requires bullock's gall dissolved in boiling water. The silk should be laid smoothly on a table, and sponged and rubbed well on both sides with the gall liquor; afterwards wash it, and rinse it well in spring water till the silk is perfectly clean; dip a sponge in glue water, and rub it on the wrong side of the silk, which may be then pinned out and dried. To extract grease from coloured silks, muslins, dc. Put French chalk in fine powder on the grease spot; hold it near the fire, or over a warm iron reversed, or on a water plate, on which is boiling water: the French chalk will absorb the grease, and it may then be brushed out. Should not one operation be effectual it may be repeated. To take out spots of paint from cloths, sillcs, dc. A clean pen must be dipped in oil of tur- pentine, and its contents dropped on the spot of paint. Let it rest several hours on it, after which it may in general be got off by rubbing between the hands. Chintz bed and win dote furniture, when not in a very dirty state, may be cleaned by boiling 2 lbs. of rice in a gallon of water till soft, and, when the liquor is at a hand heat, the articles should be put in, and the rice used lilie soap. This process may be repeated with a fresh quantity of rice and water if necessary : when dry it may be rubbed with a sleeking stone, &c. Or it may be cleaned by washing it with a doll in a tub of warm soap lather at a hand heat. Should the colour fade in washing (that is, the red or green), a drop or two of oil of vitriol should be added to the last cold water in which it is rinsed. In cleaning printed cottons, such as gowns, dc. instead of rubbing the soap on the cotton, it should be dissolved in the water, and the articles afterwards put into it, and washed as usual: by these means they are most effectually cleaned. When green, red, and other colours run, lemon juice, vinegar, or oil of vitriol should be mixed with the rinsing water to preserve the colours. To dry-clean cloths of any colour. Dip a brush in warm bullock's gall, and rub over the greasy places, when the grease will immediately disappear; rinse it in cold water, dry by the fire, and take sand, such as is bought at the oil- shop, and laying the coat or other article on a table, strew the sand over it, and, knocking the brush on it, beat the sand, which should be a little damp, into the cloth. Brush it out with a hard brush. This process does also for coach linings, &c. In scouring undyed woollens yellow soap should be dissolved in the water, and then added to the article to be cleaned, with a small quantity of pearlash. The heat of the water should be such as the hand can bear : the use of the doll will be found the most effectual mode of operation. Three liquors are, in general, necessary to complete the process. To scour black, blue, and dark broicn woollens. Dry about 3 ozs. of fullers' earth by the fire, pour a sufficient quantity of boiling water on it to dissolve it to the consistence of molasses or honey; plaster thinly over such spots of grease as are on the cloth ; dry it by the fire or in the sun ; then mix a small quantity of ox-gall with half a pint of stale urine; to this add, if necessary, a little boiling water, to make the quantity sufficient for the purpose. Dip a hard brush in this liquor, and brush w^ell the spotted places in the cloth or coat, &c.; dip the cloth in a bucket of cold water, wash off the filth, &c.,