ORA [ 277 ] ORA cloves. Put these into a close jar, and stir occasionally for two months. It is then to be filtered through blotting paper and bottled for use. ORANGE LOAVES. Cut the fruit into halves, squeeze them, and preserve the liquor. Boil the peels in several liquors to take out the bitterness, and then let them lie for two days in syrup. Boil the syrup again after that period to a good consistence, add the peels, and afterwards put them into glasses for use. When they are wanted take what quantity is sufficient for a dish, and fill them with some pudding mixture, either marrow, bread, plum, &c., or with a custard, and bake them carefully. ORANGE MARMALADE (1). Take eight Seville oranges and three lemons, pare them very thin, and take out all the juice and pulp ; lay the j)eels in water twenty-four hours, changing them once or twice, and lay them on a coarse cloth to drain; then take the weight of juice, pulp, and peel in lump svigar, and boil the whole a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes. The peels should be cut in long, narrow strips, and be careful not to leave any seeds or white part of the rind. ORANGE MARMALADE (2). Take the peels of fifteen oranges, without any of the white; blanch them till tender, and then put them into cold water. In a few minutes take them out, drain, and pound them to a paste, which rub through a sieve. Weigh it, and for each pound allow H lb. of sugar ; clarify and boil the latter to large pearl; add the paste, and boil them together, stirring constantly till the marmalade is done, which may be known thus Take some up between your thumb and finger, and if, on opening them, the marmalade draws out like a thread, it is at the right point, and may be put into pots. ORANGE MARMALADE (3). Procure Seville oranges, and stew them till they become so tender that you can pierce them with a straw, changing the water two or three times. Drain them, take off the rind, weigh the pulps, pre- viously taking out the pips, and, supposing the quantity to be 6 lbs., add 7 lbs. of sugar; boil slowly till the syrup be clear, and then add the peel, having cut it into strips. Boil it up again, and it is finished. This is a new method, has been tried, and found to be excellent, simple, and economical. ORANGE MARMALADE, RICH. Quarter some large ripe oranges, and remove the rind, the seeds, and the strings, taking care, as you do so, to save all the pulp and the juice. Put the pulp and juice into a porcelain saucepan, and mix with them an equal quantity of strained honey. If not sweet enough add some powdered loaf sugar. Boil them together slowly, stirring frequently. To ascertain if it is done take out a spoonful, and place it in the cold air: if in cooling it becomes a very thick marmalade it is sufficiently boiled. Put it into wide-mouthed jars or pots, and cover them closely. ORANGE MARMALADE, SCOTCH. Weigh an equal quantity of Seville oranges and loaf sugar; cut the oranges into halves, and take out the pulp ; put the rinds into cold water, and boil them till tender, changing the water once or twice, and when cold remove the white from the peel. Mash the orange pulp, and squeeze it through a cloth, adding a little water the second time of squeezing ; then shred the peel finely, add the juice and sugar, and boil twenty minutes over a slow fire. ORANGE MILK. Take two dozen large ripe oranges, cut them in two, remove the seeds, and squeeze the juice into a very large glass or unglazed earthenware jar: anything acid acts on the glazing. Have ready 4 lbs. of the finest loaf sugar dissolved in a gallon of the best rum or brandy; pour it into the jar that contains the orange juice, stir the mixture well, and add the yellow rind of the oranges cut into little slips. Cover the jar, and let it stand four days, stirring it frequently; then take a gallon of new unskimmed milk (the morning's milk of that day), boil it, and when it has come to a hard boil pour it hot into the mixture; cover it closely, and let it stand till it gets quite cold; then strain it into another vessel through a linen jelly bag, bottle it immediately, and seal the corks. It im- proves by keeping, and will continue good for many years. To use it mix a sufficient quan- tity in a tumbler with ice water, or take it undiluted in a small cordial glass. ORANGE-PEEL. Put the peels of a dozen thick-skinned oranges into a gallon of brand}"-; dissolve 2 lbs. of sugar in the juice of the oranges, add to it the brandy, and having stirred them well together, close the vessel tightly, and leave it for a month; then strain it off and bottle it. ORANGE-PEEL : To Candy (1). Cut the oranges lengthwise, take out the pulp, put the rinds into salt and water for six days, and then boil them till tender in spring water. Take them out, lay them on a hair sieve, and while draining make a thin syrup of loaf sugar with just water enough to dissolve it. Put in the rinds, and boil them over a slow fire till the syrup candies ; then take them out, and grate fine sugar over them; lay them on a sieve to drain, and set them in a stove or before the fire to dry. ORANGE-PEEL : To Candy (2). Take some Seville orange-peel, and let it soak in several waters till it has lost its bitterness; then boil