[ 450 ] SOL SOD course of the day: much less should it be left in the hot suds while washing. White Soap is made with olive oil and soda. Windsor Soap is the common white soap, scented with oil of caraway seeds or other scent. Yellow Soap is composed of tallow and yellow resin, in the proportion of ten parts of tallow and three and a half of resin : these, if good, will make, with the addition of the alkali, twenty of soap. Some of the fish oils are also, we believe, occasionally used in the manufacture of the inferior soaps. SODA. Few articles are of greater import- ance to the arts, manufactures, and domestic economy than soda. It is indispensably necessary for making hard soap, and also forms an excellent substitute for this article, as 4 ozs. of the former and 6 ozs. of the latter are fully equal to 16 ozs., or 1 lb. of soap, for cleansing ] 4 lbs. of cloth by hand, while it softens the hardest water. Thus a saving will arise in the expense of from one-third to one-half, accordingly as that operation is performed by the hand or by machines. The superior effects of soda are fully evinced in the cleansing of fleecy hosiery, flannels, or worsted stockings, which, when managed with warm water, soap, and pot- ash, acquire an unpleasant odour, and are apt to shrink in consequence of the rubbing, parti- cularly if they be immersed in cold water; whereas by using the fossil alkali these incon- veniences are said to be completely avoided, and neither the quality of the goods will be impaired, nor the hands of women, when the soda is judiciously employed, be hijured in the same manner as generally happens by the common lye. Farther, as frequent bathing or washing of the body greatly conduces to health, it has been recommended to dissolve a small portion of soda iu the water thus employed, or at least to pass a towel wetted with a solution of soda and soap over the surface ; for such practice opens the pores, and removes the disagreeable odour arising from profuse perspiration. A similar application will be productive of equal advantage to horses that are employed for racing, post-chaises, or other purposes where great exertions are required. If a weak solution of soda be poured into foul bottles or casks in which wine has been kept for a considerable time, it will completely dissolve the tartarous crust that is formed on their inner surface. Boot tops, saddles, or bridles may with such liquid be effectually cleansed, while the original colour of the leather is preserved. This alkali may likewise be employed for sweetening kitchen utensils, and particularly for removing grease or acids from copper vessels, because these concretions, when suffered to re- main, form a strong poison, and may be pro- ductive of deleterious effects. In a similar manner it may be used for tin and iron vessels, to prevent them from becoming rusty. Lastly, as the utensils of the dairy are apt to acquire an acid, disagreeable smell during the summer, and particularly after a thunder-storm, though every attention be bestowed on them, such fetor may be completely removed by a small portion of soda, which will render the milk vessels per- fectly sweet, while it neutralises and dispels tlie acid ferment imbibed by the wood, and which might otherwise taint the milk. The ciystals of soda are not less useful in a medicinal point of view. Thus a solution of this salt is an excellent gargle for cleansing the throat, mouth, and gums, both in a sound and in a diseased or ulcerated state, while it whitens the teeth, and dissolves all incrustations that may be formed on their surface, without injuring their enamel; and if a small quantity of this liquid be occasionally swallowed, after washing the fauces, it is said effectually to remove a fetid breath. Soda is, in many instances, preferable to magnesia for correcting acidity in the stomach ; nay, it is even asserted that it prevents the gout, gravel, stone, and similar disorders. Lastly, if the fossil alkali be mixed with cream of tartar in the proportion of four- teen parts of the former to twelve of the latter, it furnishes one of the mildest laxatives, namely, the Eochelle salt. SODA WATER That sold in bottles, and prepared by machines, is little else than water impregnated with carbonic acid. An Effer- vescing Draught is a solution of Rochelle salt (tartrate of soda) impregnated with carbonic acid. SOLDERS are made so as to endui'e various degrees of heat. Bismuth 8 ozs., lead 4 ozs., tin 4 ozs., melted together and thoroughly mixed, form a solder ^Yhich melts in boiling water (213°). Fine Solder is made of lead, 1 oz.; tin, 2 ozs. It melts at 350". Glaziers' Solder is made of lead, 3 ozs., and tin, ] oz. It melts at 500°. SOLE PIE. Boil 2 lbs. of eels till quite tender, then pick the flesh from the bones, and put the latter into the liquor the eels were boiled in, with a blade of mace and some salt; let them boil till the liquor is reduced to a quarter of a pint, and then strain it. Cut the flesh of the eel very finely, and mix it with a little lemon-peel cut small, a little salt, pepper, a few bread crumbs, parsley chopped finely, and an anchovy minced; mix the whole with ^ lb. of butter, and then lay this forcemeat in a pie dish. Cut the meat from a very fine pair of