RHE [ 3 1 3 RHE tion and swelling. It is most common in the spring and towaixls the end of autumn. It is usually distinguished into acute and chronic, or the rheumatism with and without a fever. The causes of a rheumatism are frequently the same as those of an inflammatory fever, viz., an obstructed perspiration, the immoderate use of strong liquors, and the like. Sudden changes of the weather, and all quick transitions from heat to cold, are very apt to occasion the rheumatism. Very obstinate rheumatisms have likewise been brought on by persons un- accustomed to it allowing their feet to continue long wet. The same effects are often produced by wet clothes, damp beds, sitting or lying on the damp ground, travelling in the night, &c. The rheumatism may likewise be occasioned by excessive evacuations, or the stoppage of customary discharges. It is often the effect of chronic diseases, which vitiate the humours, as the scurvy, the lues venerea, obstinate autumnal agues, &c. The rheumatism prevails in cold, damp, marshy countries. It is most common among the poorer sort of peasants, who are ill clothed, live in low, damp houses, and eat coarse and unwholesome food, which contains but little nourishment, and is not easily digested. The acute rheumatism commonly begins with weariness, shivering, a quick pulse, restlessness, thirst, and other symptoms of fever. Afterwards the patient complains of flying pains, which are increased by the least motion. These at length fix in the joints, which are often affected with swelling and inflammation. If blood be let in this disease it has generally the same ap- pearance as in the pleurisy. In this kind of rheumatism the treatment of the patient is nearly the same as in an acute or inflammatory fever. If he be young and strong bleeding is necessary, which may be repeated according to the exigencies of the case. The body ought likewise to be kept open by emollient clysters or cool opening liquors, as decoctions of tamarinds, cream of tartar, whey, senna tea, and the like. The diet should be light, and in small quantity, consisting chiefly of roasted apples, groat gruel, or weak chicken broth. After the feverish symptoms have abated, if the pain still continues, the patient must keep his bed, and take such things as promote perspira- tion, as wine whey, with solution of the acetated ammonia, &c.:—Take camphor mixture, 1 oz.; solution of tartarised antimony, 20 drops; solution of acetated ammonia, 3 drachms. Mix them for a draught, to be repeated every four or six hours. He may likewise take for a few nights at bedtime, in a cup of wine whey, 1 drachm of the cream of tartar, and i drachm of gum guaiacum in powder. Warm bathing, after proper evacuations, has oiten an exceedingly good effect. The patient may either be put into a bath of warm water, or have cloths wrung out of it applied to the parts affected. Great care must be taken that he does not catch cold after bathing. The chronic rheumatism is seldom attended with any considerable degree of fever, and is generally confined to some particular part of the body, as the shoulders, the back, or the loins. There is seldom any inflammation or swelling in this case. Persons in the decline of life are most subject to the chronic rheumatism. In such patients it often proves extremely obstinate, and sometimes incurable. In this kind of rheumatism the regimen should be nearly the same as in the acute. Cool and diluting diet, consisting chiefly of vegetable substances, as stewed prunes, codled apples, currants or gooseberries boiled in milk, is most proper. Arbuthnot says, " If there be a specific in aliment for the rheumatism it is certainly whey," and adds " that he knew a person subject to this disease who could never be cured by any other method but a diet of whey and bread." He likewise says " that cream of tartar in water gruel, taken for several days, will ease rheumatic pains considerably." In this case the patient may take the dose formerly mentioned twice a day, and likewise a tea- spoonful of the volatile tincture of gum guaiacum at bedtime in wine whey. This course may be continued for a week, or longer if the case proves obstinate, and the patient's strength will permit. It ought then to be omitted for a few days, and repeated again. At the same time leeches or a blistering plaster may be applied to the part affected. What answers better than either of these, in obstinate fixed rheumatic pains, is the im)-m plaster. Cupping upon the part affected is likewise often very beneficial, and so is the application of leeches. Blisters are sometimes employed in this com- plaint, but they appear to be most serviceable in those cases where the disease partakes of the nature of acute rheumatism, or where the pain is fixed in any particular joint; and a repetition of fresh blisters will be preferable to keeping up a constant sore, by stimulating the part with, savin or other ointments, and produce a greater effect upon the disease. Though this disease may not seem to yield to medicines for some time, yet they ought still to be persisted in. Persons who are subject to frequent returns of the rheumatism will often find their account in using medicines, whether they be immediately affected with the disease or not. The chronio rheumatism is similar to the gout in this resjject, that the most proper time