TON TON r 496 ] ■water the appetite and spirits are improved. These effects are most obvious in irritable and sanguine habits. On commencing a course of this water it is not uncommon for the invaUd to experience nausea, vomiting, and pain about the heart, or else a heaviness in the head, slight giddiness, and a sense of fulness over the whole body, which symptoms, however, soon disappear; but should they continue, the use of the water must then be abandoned. TONGUE: To Boil. A dry one must be steeped in water all night, and then boiled for three hours. If it is to be served up hot it must be stuck with cloves ; then rub it over with yolk of egg, strew upon it some bread crumbs, and baste it with butter; set it before the fire till it takes a light brown coloui', and when dished up pour to it a little brown gravy or red wine sauce. Garnish it all round with slices of currant jelly. If the tongue is pickled it must be washed out with water. TONGUE : To Carve. This must be cut crossways in the line a b, taking a slice from thence. The most tender and juicy slices are about the centre, or between the line a b and the root. For the fat and kernel with it, cut off a slice of the root on the right of the point h at the bottom. TONGUE : To Pickle. Take a fine neat's tongue, and put it in the following pickle:— Four gallons of water, 4 lbs. of common salt, the same of bay salt, ^ lb. of saltpetre, 2 ozs. of sal prunella, 1 oz. of alum, and 1 lb. of coarse sugar. Boil these together, and skim well; lay in the tongue, and let it remain ten days, turning it two or three times in that period. Dry the tongue by a wood fire. TONGUE : To Roast. Parboil the tongue in salt and water till it will peel easily ; add thereto some whole pepper, an onion, carrot, a few cloves, and a little thyme. On taking out the tongue lard it with bacon, roast, and baste it often until done. Serve it with gravy in the dish, and sweet sauce separately. TONGUE: To Stew. Rub for a week with salt and saltpetre, taking care to turn it every day; boil it sufficiently tender to admit the skin to come off easily. When done stew it in a moderately strong gravy, season it with soy, mushroom catsup, Cayenne pepper, pounded cloves, and if necessary some salt. Serve it up with truffles, morels, and mushrooms. If the tongue is to be eaten cold it must be seasoned with common salt, saltpetre, coarse sugar, a little bay salt, pepper, cloves, mace, and allspice finely powdered, and remain therein a fortnight; then remove the pickle, put the tongue into a small pan, lay some butter on it, cover it with brown crust, and bake it slowly till the tongue may be penetrated with a straw. Observe that the fleshy part of the tongue, if hung up to dry, will grate like hung beef, and give a good flavour to omelets. In this as well as in Pickling Tongue, it will be necessary to take off the roots of the tongues before salting them, leaving a little of the fat. TONGUE, FRICASSEE OF. Take a neat's tongue, remove the root, and boil it till tender; then clear off the skin, and cut in slices ; fry them in butter, which must be poured off, and as much gravy substituted for it as will be needed for sauce. ' Garnish with lemon. TONGUE, POTTED. Do it as for pickling. When it has lain its proper time cut off the root, and boil it until it will peel; then season it with salt, pepper, nutmeg, mace, and cloves, all beaten finely ; rub the seasoning while it is hot, put it into a pan, pour some melted butter over it, and send it to the oven : an hour is sufficient to bake it. When done let it stand to cool, rub a little more spice over it, and lay it in the pot it is to be kept in. When the butter it was baked in is cold take it from the gravy, clarify, and pour it over the tongue: if there is not sufficient to cover it more must be added. The butter must be an inch higher than the tongue. TONGUE, STEWED. Let it simmer for two hours in just sufficient water to cover it; then peel it, and put it in the liquor again, with some salt, mace, cloves, and whole pepper tied in a bit of muslin, a few capers, turnips cut in very small pieces, carrots sliced, half a pint of beef gravy, a little wine, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; let it stew gently until tender; then take out the spice and sweet herbs, and thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour. TONGUE AND UDDER, ROASTED. Parboil the tongue and udder, stick in them ten or twelve cloves, roast them, baste them with red wine, and froth them nicely with a bit of butter. Serve with gravy and sweet sauce. The udder eats well boiled with the tongue. TONGUE AND UDDER, STUFFED. Boil the tongue and udder till tender; peel the tongue, and stick it with a few cloves ; raise the udder, wash the inside with yolk of egg, make a good forcemeat of veal, and fill the udder;