284 ] ox OX witli sweet herbs and spices ; simmer tlie skin in vinegar, and when cold cut a roll of very white bacon, make up the farce about it, and farce them. With a needle draw the skins nearly close at the ends, dip them in crystal acid, and when they are quite dry wrap each up in paper, and wash them over with strong paste. When to be served put them into the oven for an hour, glaze them with red glaze, and serve them over with crisped parsley, spinach, turnips, &c., with white meats. They look well cut in slices. OX-PALATE "croquettes. Having boiled the palates in a blanc as usual, cut them into dice ; have ready some reduced veloute, to which add the yolks of two or three eggs and a small piece of butter; put the minced palates into this, stirring them well together; then with a spoon lay about thirty little heaps of this on a tin, and when cool form them with your hands of any shape you please ; roll them in bread crumbs, then dip them in eggs (well beaten and seasoned with pepper and salt), roll them again in bread crumbs, and fry them in a verv hot pan. Serve them on fried parsley. OX PALATES. The palate should be soaked for several hours, and then scalded until the second skin can be easily removed on scraping with a knife, when it should be put into cold water, and thoroughly cleaned and trimmed, that is, all the black parts cleared away; then put it in a blanc for four ©r five hours, or more if necessary. If, on pressing, the meat is flexible, it is sufficiently done, and may be taken out, and is fit to be dressed in any way you think proper, and served with any sauce OX PALATES, BROILED Cut some blanched ox palates in slices, which soak for some hours in a marinade composed of oil, salt, pepper, parsley, scallions, onions sliced, and lemon juice, then take them out, bread, and broil them. Serve with smice jnquante. OX PALATES, COLLOPS OF. Take two braised ox palates, and cut them into pieces the size 03 half-crowns , have ready twice as many pieces of puff paste, cut rather larger than the palate ; between every two put a slice of the palate, and a little forcemeat on each side of it; press the edges of the paste together, and fry the collops to a nice colour. OX PALATES AU GRATIN, Trim the palates carefully, and blanch them. When cold cut them into slices, and give them a few turns in a little butter and two onions; then add a little ham (also cut in slices), some gravy, stock, cuUis, and a bouquet garni; let these boil an hour, then skim the liquor, put in a httle mustard, and serve on a gratin as follows :—Make a mince of fowl livers, to which add grated bacon, parsley, Bcallions, mushrooms (all shred small), salt, and pepper. Mix these together with the yolks of two eggs, and spread it over a dish, which place on hot ashes as soon as the gi'atin is formed. Drain off the fat, put the palates on the gratin, and serve. OX PALATES IN MOULDS. Take a number of small timbale moulds, in each of which put some veal caul; braise and cut the palates into thin slices the size of the moulds; make a good forcemeat with the trimmings of the palates and some fowl; put layers of this and the slices of the palates alternately till each mould is nearly full; cover each with chopped truffles, over which lay another slice of palate; wrap the caul over, and put them in an oven. When done take them out carefully, wipe off the fat, and serve them with any sauce you think proper. OX PALATES, PICKLED. Wash the palates clean with salt and water, then let them boil in salt and water; skim them verj"- clean, let them simmer four or five hours, and season them with pepper, cloves, and mace. When they are tender cut them into pieces, and let them cool. Make a pickle with equal quantities of white wine and vinegar; boil it, and put in the spice that was boiled with the palates, adding six or seven bay leaves and some fresh spice. When both are cold put them together and keep them for use. OX PALATES, ROASTED. Boil them until they are tender, blanch them, and cut them into slices about two or three inches in length. Take some pigeons and very small chickens ; draw, truss, and fill them with force- meat ; let half of them be neatly larded, and spit them on a bird-spit in the following manner— a bird, a palate, a sage leaf, and a bit of bacon. Have ready two sweetbreads cut in pieces, some artichoke bottoms (also cut in pieces), some oysters, and some blanched cocks' combs, all fried ; rub the dish with some shallots, lay the chickens, the pigeons, and what is roasted in the middle, and arrange the other things round them. Then make a sauce in the following manner:-.—A quarter of a pint of red wine, a pint of gravy, the liquor of the oysters, an anchovy, a little lemon juice, and a bit of butter rolled in flour; let it boil till it has obtained the consistence of cream, and then pour it over the palates in the dish. OX PALATES, STEWED, Thoroughly clean four or five palates, put them into a pan with sufficient water to cover them, tie them down, and bake or boil them. AVlien tender peel them, cut them into pieces, flour them, and put them into some good gravy, with an onion, a few pounded cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, and some catsup; let them stew for half an hour, take out the lemon-peel and onion, and add,