SUM SUN peasants of Podolia, the Ukraine, and other parts of Kussia use it both internally and externally in decoction, along with Genista tinctoria, as a preventive of hydrophobia. The Tripoli merchants sell the seeds at Aleppo, and they are in common use there to induce an appetite. The taste of the fruit is very acid and astringent, and does not possess the dan- gerous qualities for which some of this genus are so remarkable. From the berries of R. semialata the Chinese extract an oil by bruising them, and boiling them in water: they use it as a varnish, which is beautiful, but does not keep its polish. The leaves of R. copallina are used as tobacco by the Indians of the Missis- sippi and Missouri. This yields a resin which was long considered to be the true gum copal, and hence Linnsus applied to it the specific name of copallina. " Copal " is a general term used in Mexico for a gum; but as this tree does not grow in Mexico, and as the resins yielded by those species of Rhus which do gi'ow in that country have been ascertained to differ entirely from the copal of commerce, it may be concluded that the copal is not produced by this plant. R. radicans is a climbing shrub, very abundant in hedges and woods from Canada to Georgia. It rises to the tops of the highest trees, throwing out roots all along its stem, which penetrate the bark of the tree against which it grows. It is called poison vine in America. When the stem is cut it emits a pale brown sap of a disagreeable scent, and so acrid that letters or marks made upon linen cannot be removed, but gi'ow blacker the more they are washed. Like R. venenata it is poisonous to some persons, though not to others, but in a less degree. Kalm relates of two sisters that one could handle the tree with impunity, while the other could not come within three feet of it, or even stand to the windward of it at a greater distance, without feeling its exhalations ; and that although it had not the slightest effect upon him, even when the juice had been squirted into his eyes, the skin of a person's hand which had been covered with it became as hard as a piece of tanned leather a few hours after the application, and ultimately peeled off in scales. R. toxico- dendron, also a native of North America, and there called poison oak, is a shrub from one to three feet high. The juice has the same property of indelibly staining linen as the preceding, and the more it is washed the deeper it becomes. It deepens with age, and does not yield to water or alcohol, either hot or cold, but is dissolved by ether. When the juice first exudes it is milky, but becomes black on exposure to the air. Dr. Alderson, of Hull, used it in four cases of paralysis, in doses of 1 grain or 1 grain three times a day, and in all his patients recovered to a certain degree the use of their limbs. The first symptom of amendment was always an unpleasant feeling of pricking or twitching in the paralytic limbs ; and it acts as a purgative, notwithstanding the torpid state of the bowels of such patients. Rhus typJiina is met with almost over the whole of the United States, and is called Vir- ginian sumach. It is from eight to twenty feet high, and the young branches are covered with a soft, velvet-like down, resembling a young stag's horn both in colour and in texture ; and hence it has been called stag's horn and stag's-horn sumach. It has received the name of vinegar plant, from the double reason of the young plant, when fermented, producing either new or adding to the strength of old vinegai", whilst its ripe berries afford an agreeable acid, which might supply the place, wheji necessary, of citric acid. The powerful astringency of this plant in all its parts recommends it as useful in several of the arts. The ripe berries boiled with alum make a good dye for hats. Every part of the plant may be used as a substitute for oak bark in tanning, especially the white glove leather. It will likewise answer to prepare a dye for black, green, and yellow colours ; and with the sulphate of iron it makes a good ink. The milky juice that flows from the incisions made in the trunk or branches makes, when dried, the basis of a varnish little inferior to the Chinese. Bees are remarkably fond of its flowers, and it is said to afford more honey than any of the flowering shrubs. The natives of America use the dried leaves as tobacco. SUN-BURNED. See Freckles. SUNDERLAND PUDDING. Beat up the yolks of eight eggs with the whites of three; add thei'eto five spoonsful of flour and a grated nutmeg, and put the whole into a pint of cream ; butter some small basins, fill them half way, and bake them an hour. When done turn them out, and pour thereon melted butter, wine, and sugar. SUNDIAL. See Meridian Line. SUNFLOWER. The common sunflower (Helianthus annuus), apart from its ornamental character as a conspicuous object in gardens and shrubberies, is also a much more important plant than it is generally supposed to be. In France the leaves are used as forage for cattle, which are said to eat them with great relish and avidity. The stalks malce an excellent fuel, and yield a large quantity of potash after they are burned ; or, if not wanted for that purpose, the ashes may be used as manure by sowing them over the land, or mixing them in the manure heap. In Portugal the seeds ai'e used to make a wholesome and