MIL [ 214 3 MIN- with the milk that is heating in the stewpan, and let it boil up. Cut some slices of French bread, dry them before the fire, let them soak a little in the milk, lay them at the bottom of the tureen, and pour in the soup. MILK SOUP, LIE. Put a quart of milk on the fire, and when it boils add to it sugar to your taste, a pinch of salt, and four eggs ; keep it on the fire, stirring till you find it thicken and adhere to the spoon (the milk must not boil); cut some \erj light bread into pieces, soak them in the usual way, substituting milk for broth, pour the soup over, and serve. MILK SOUP AU SAFRAN. Scald and drain some rice, and put it into a quart of boil- ing milk, adding 6 grains of saffron in powder. Let it boil over a slow fire for an hour and a half, and then serve it quite hot. MILK TOAST. Boil a tea-cupful of milk, and put in a spoonful of butter; toast a slice of bread, moisten it with water, and then pour on the boiling milk. This is very good for sick persons, and can be eaten without much exertion. MILK VINEGAR. Put six spoonsful of good brandy into a large bottle full of milk; cork it well, and expose it in a warm place for a month, opening it occasionally on account of the fermentation. At the end of that time the milk will have become very good vinegar. Strain it through a cloth, and keep it in bottles. MILK WATER. Take two handsful of wormwood, the same of carduus, ditto of rue, ditto of angelica; mint and balm, of each four handsful; cut them a little, put them in a cold still, and add to them three quarts of milk. Let your fire be quick till the still drops, and then slacken it. You may di'aw off two quarts : the first quart will keep all the year. MILK, VANILLA (Cold). Six yolks of eggs and a table-spoonful of flour, mixed smooth with a little cold milk, to be beaten up with a quart of boiling milk, sugar and bruised vanilla then added, the whole again boiled and con- stantly stirred, and, being poured into a tureen, to be set aside in the cellar to become cold. "While this is going oii beat up three eggs with a cup of milk, and sweeten with sugar; cover it over, and place it in a roasting or baking oven, or only in the hot ashes, and let it become thick. When cold add to it the cold milk previously prepared, sprinkle over with sugar, and serve to table. MILK YEAST. If you have no yeast you may make some with milk to rise with. Take a pint of new milk, and stir in it two tea-spoonsful of salt and half a tea-cupful of flour; keep it moderately warm by the fire, and it will lighten in about an hou'-; tliou stir in flour enough to make a large loaf of bread, with more milk or water. This yeast should be used immediately, and will do to lighten hop yeast. MILLET MILK. Wash three spoonsful of millet seed in cold water, and then put it into a quart of new milk. Stew it gently till it is moderately thick, and then pour it into a basin to cool. MILLET PUDDING (1). Cleanse i lb. of millet seed, and put it into a dish spread over with ^ lb. of butter, adding thereto some sugar and shred lemon-peel, with a little beaten allspice, cinnamon, grated nutmeg, or ginger, and pour over the whole three pints of milk. Bake it in a moderately heated oven. It may be enriched with eggs, spicery, and wine. MILLET PUDDING (2). Wash three spoonsful of the seed, put it into a dish with a crust round the edges, pour over it as much new milk as will nearly fill the dish, and add 2 ozs. of butter warmed, sugar, shred lemon, and a very little ginger and nutmeg grated. When put in the oven stir in two eggs beaten, and a spoonful of shred suet. MINCE PIES. When about to make mince pies take a small dish, and lay a thin crust over it; then spread thinly upon it a layer of the mincemeat, as described in the fol- lowing receipts, lay on the crust, and bake it well. MINCE PIES, EGG. Boil six eggs hard, and shred them small; chop double that quantity of suet; then take 1 lb. or more of currants washed and picked, the peel c" a lemon shred finely, together with the juice, six spoonsful of sweet wine, some mace, nutmeg, silgar, a little salt, orange, lemon, and citron candied. Make a light paste, and proceed as for the ordinary mince pies. MINCE PIES, FARMERS'. When you kill an ox save the head for pies : it is some trouble to prepare it, but it is very nice for the purpose. Split the head, take out the brains and eyes, wash it well in cold water, and soak it all night, with two hogs' heads that have been cleaned, In the morning boil them till you can take out the bones easily ; skim off the froth as it rises, or it will stick to the meat; pick out the bones, and chop it fine with 3 lbs. of suet. This should be done the day before you want to bake. Mix to this quantity of meat two gallons of chopped apples, 4 lbs. of raisins, half a gallon of boiled molasses, a pint of currant wine, a tea-cupful of brandy, 1 oz. of cinnamon, orange-peel, and mace, from two to four nutmegs, and sweet cyder enough to make it the right thickness : if the cyder is not sweet put in more molasses. When all are mixed it is best to make a small pie, as you can alter the seasoning if it is not to your