r 45 ] HOO HOP a phial for use. It may be rubbed on tbe chest in any quantity twice or thrice a day. As one of the most dangerous attendants of hooping cough is an inflammatory affection of the chest, and as the whole disorder appears to depend on an increased flow of blood to the mem- brane which lines the windpipe, one of the most powerful remedies is the loss of blood by leeches or by the lancet. When the child has permanent diflaculty of breathing between the fits, unless blood be taken it will in most cases fall a victim to inflammation of the lungs in two, three, or four days. During this permanent difficulty of breathing the cough abates, or quite ceases, often deluding the fond parent with fallacious hope; but if the cough returns after once or twice bleeding it is a good symp- tom, as the child, now possessing power to cough, shows that the difficulty of breathing is abated. We insist the more strongly on this, that many lives are lost from the difficulty of bleeding young children, particularly when the apothecary is ignorant or clumsy, or has a bad lancet. In these critical circumstances the application of six or eight leeches to one of the legs, allowing the wounds to bleed for an hour or two, ought never to be omitted, as one or two repetitions, according to the emergency, will often save the little sufferer. After the first week or two, in order to diminish the tough phlegm which collects in the throat and obstructs the breathing, we should recommend rhubarb, 12 grains; opium, 1 grain; submuriate of mercury, 1 grain. Mix well, divide into six pills, and take one twice a day. This is the ' dose for a child about three years old. If it i cannot take the pill break it down among jelly. It is by no means safe to blister young : children, as, in bad cases where the constitution is exhausted, the blister often inflames, mortifies, 1: and proves fatal. The warm bath, however, f ought to be frequently used as a substitute; and I it is useful to inhale twice a day, or oftener, 1 the steam of warm water, or warm water and vinegar. Another substitute is distilled water, 2 ozs.; tartarised antimony, 20 grains; tincture of cantharides, 1 oz. Mix, and rub frequently on the region of the stomach. Young children should lie with their heads and shoulders raised, and should be constantly watched night and day, that when the fit of coughing comes on they may be easily held up so as to stand on their feet, bending a little forwards, or nicely supported in the posture in which they appear to feel most ease. A bow of whalebone, about the size of the bow of a key, is very useful to extract phlegm out of the mouths of infants at the time of coughing. A handkerchief, which is generally used, if applied at the time of their quick inspirations, after long holding in their breath, is oangerous, and may suffocate the little patient in an instant, as has sometimes happened. When ulcers of the lungs seem to have supervened, with hectic fever, and threaten consumption, change of air for a week or a fortnight often acts like a charm, and restores the patient, frequently to the surprise of the physician. There is not, however, a greater popular delusion than with regard to the effects of change of air. In all stages of the hooping cough, as well as other disorders attended with cough, change of air ought always to be tried if possible; but the patient must continue for a considerable time in the new air before any benefit can be expected. The common people, who are always under the influence of mystery and superstition, think that by taking a child with hooping cough for a few minutes into a cavern, a mine, or a coal pit, a great charm will be wrought ; but nothing can be more preposterous. If the child were kept in any of those places for a week or ten days it might, indeed, be benefited, for it is remarkable that it is not so much a change into better air, as a change, whether for better or worse, which is required. The greater the difference is in the air the better, as from the interior to the seacoast. Dr. Hamilton says it may be known when the air disagrees by observing that the child is gradually more and more restless during the night, and on this account in many cases it is found necessary to change the residence weekly. He is also a strong advo- cate for vomits, and in many cases we should agree with him in this. The younger the child is the more are vomits required, so that it is often necessary to give one evening and morning for weeks together. After the violence of the disorder has abated strengthening diet, with exercise in the open air in dry weather, is requisite to confirm the health. HOP PILLOW. See Anodyne. HOP SOUP. Take a large quantity of hop tops about April or the beginning of May, when they are in the greatest perfection ; tie twenty or thirty of them in a bunch, lay them in spring water an hour or two, drain them well, and put them into some thin pea soup; boil them well, add three spoonsful of juice of onions, some pepper and salt, and let them boil some time longer. When done soak some crusts of bread in the broth, lay them in the tureen, and pour in the soup. This is plain, but very good soup. HOPS. [See Brewing.) Hops have been said to be tonic, narcotic, and diuretic. They have been recommended in the cure ol rheu- matism, and, like many articles in the materia inedica which have received the sanction of respectable practitioners, they have been ex-