[ 311 i PEA PEA cloves, i lb. of sugar, and some water; set them in a moderate oven till tender, and then put them on a slow fire to stew gently; add grated lemon-peel, and more sugar if necessary. They will be sufficiently red. PEARS, CANDIED, are done like Apricots. PEARS, COMPOTE OF. Take some good- sized pears, cut them in halves, put them into boiling water, and when soft change them into cold water, in which squeeze a little lemon juice. Boil some clarified sugar, drain the fruit well from the water, and then put it into the syrup; boil together until the pears are sufficiently done ; skim, and place them in the compotier. A little Burgundy wine and prepared cochineal will give the compote a red colour. PEARS, PRESERVED. Take care, in making this preserve, that the pears be not too ripe ; they are in a fit state as soon as the pips are black. Set the pears on the fire with sufficient water to cover them; take them off when quite soft, and throw them into cold water; pare them lightly, cut off the stalks, prick each with a pin sufficiently long to reach the core, and put them again in cold water, with a handful of alum; set them on the fire to boil until the pears are tender, then take them out, and put them in cold water for the third time. Clarify and boil some sugar to petite lisse; put some water to it, and when it boils add the pears, cover the pan, and give the whole a boil; skim, pour it into an earthen pan, and leave it. The next day drain the syrup from the pears, add a little more clarified sugar to it, and boil it again to f^eii'ie lisse; pour it over the fruit, and leave it as before. The next and two successive days proceed in the same way, each time decreasing the degree of boiling until it reaches grande perle; then add the pears, give the preserve a boil (covered), skim and pour it into a pan, place it in a stove for two days, then drain the fruit, and put it by for use. PEARS, STEWED. Wash and prick some large stewing pears, and set them on the fire in a large stewpan of water to scald. When scalded take them out, and put them on a fire in a pan, with a sufficient quantitj' of clanfied sugar to cover them, a stick of cinnamon, a little mace, and two or three cloves ; let them stew gently till they begin to soften and look rather red, then put in a bottle of port wine, and let them continue stewing until they are perfectly done, and look very rich and red ; then put them in a basin or jar, with the liquor over them They will be all the better for being kept four or five days. PEAS: To Stkw. Put into a stewpan a quart of peas, a lettuce and onion (both sliced), a piece of butter, some pepper, salt, and no more water than hangs round the lettuce from wash- ing. Stew them very gently for two hours. When to be served beat up an egg, and stir it into them, or some flour and butter. PEAS, BOILED. Set a large pan of spring water on the fire, and when it boils put in the peas, with a handful of salt and a stalk of mint. When done drain them in a cullender, and toss them in a stewpan with a large piece of butter, a little salt, and pepper. If for the second course be careful that they are the very youngest, and omit the pepper. PEAS, CULLIS OF. Boil some green peas in a little good stock, with a bunch of parsley, scallions, and savory; then rub them through a sieve into a cullis. If you wish it to be very green add a little spinach essence. PEAS, ISSUE. See Issue Peas. PEAS, POTTAGE OF. Put about three pints of green peas into cold water; add to them ^ lb. of butter, which mix well with the peas by working them about with your hands ; then, hav- ing drained them in a cullender, put the peas into a stewpan, with a little parsley and a few scallions, and set them on a moderate fire, stirring occasionally. In half an hour's time take them out, put them into a mortar, and pound them well; rub them through a sieve, adding a little cold broth to enable them to go through more easily. Make your puree very clear, heat it, and pour it on the bread about ten minutes before you serve it. PEAS POWDER FOR PEA SOUP. Pound together in a marble mortar 2 ozs. each of dried mint and sage leaves, and \ oz. each of celery seed and black pepper. Rub through a hair sieve, and keep in a glass bottle well corked. PEAS PUDDING. Take a pint of good split peas, and, having washed them, soak them well in warm water; then tie them in a cloth, put the pudding into a saucepan of hot water and boil it until quite soft. When done beat it up with a little butter and salt, and serve it witli boiled pork or beef. PEAS IN A PUREE. Proceed as directed for Pka Soup, but let the puree be much thicker, and add a little more sugar and salt. This will serve to garnish a stewed leg of lamb, lamb or mutton cutlets, duck stewed, &c. PEAS, RAGOUT OF (with Bacon). Take \ lb. of bacon, and cut it into pieces, which put into a stewpan with a little butter. Put a pint of young peas into a basin, stir some butter into them, and po\u' on a little water; leave tho peas in this about seven minutes, then drain and set them on the fire. In a few minutes add a little broth, then bacon, parsley, scallions, salt, and pepper; stew the whole over a gentle