ME A t 197 1 ME A OTigTit to feel an appetite on rising. This, how- ever, is not always the fact. The gastric juice does not appear to be secreted in any quantity during sleep, while the muscular energies of the stomach, although invigorated by repose, are liot immediately called into action. It is, there- fore, advisable to allow an interval to pass before we commence the meal of breakfast. We seem to depart more from the custom of our hardy ancestors with regard to breakfast than any other meal, A maid of honour in the court of Elizabeth breakfasted upon beef, and drank ale after it; while the sportsman, and even the day labourer of the present day, frequently breakfasts upon tea. The periods of their meals, however, were so generally different from those of modern times, that we cannot establish any useful comparison between them without taking into consideration the collateral circumstances which must have influenced their operation. The solidity of oar breakfast should be regu- lated by the labour and exercise to be taken, and by the time of dining. Where the dinner hour is late we should recommend a mora nu- tiitious meal, in order to supersede the necessity of a luncheon, or what the French call un dejmner a la fvurchette. At the same time, it must be remembered that dyspeptic invalids are frequently incommoded by such a repast if it be copious. Heartburn is a common effect of a heavy breakfast, especially if it be accompanied with much diluting liquid ; and a question has consequently arisen as to the propriety of taking much fluid on these occasions. Some have re- commended a dry breakfast as peculiarly whole- some ; and we have been told that the celebrated Marcus Antoninus made a rule to eat a hard biscuit the moment he got up. It will not be difficult to show the reasons why liquids are essentially necessary at this meal. To say no- thing of the instinctive desire which we all feel for them, it is evident that there is a certain acrimony and rankness in all our secretions at that time; the breath has frequently a peculiar taint in tlie morning, which is not perceptible at subsequent periods of the day. This may be explained by the loss which the fluids of the body have sustained by perspiration, as well as by the quality of newly elaborated matter intix>- duced into the circulation during sleep. The experiments of Sanctorius have fully demon- strated the superior power of sleep in promoting the perspiration, insomuch that a person sleep- ing healthfully, and without any unnatural means to promote it, will, in a given space of time, perspire insensibly twice as much as when awake. This fact is sufficient to prove the necessity of a liquid breakfast. A person who has not strong powers of digestion is frequently distressed by the usual association of tea with bread and butter, or, what is more injurious, with hot buttered toast or muffins, the oily part of which is separated by the heat of the liquid, and remains in the stomach, producing on its cardiac orifice an irritation which occasions the sensation of heartburn. On such occasions we recommend dry toast without any addition. New bread or spongy rolls should be carefully avoided. Tea to many persons is a beverage which contains too little nutriment: barley water or a thin gruel is a very useful substitute. Hard eggs, although they require a long period for their digestion, are not generally offensive to the stomach; they may, therefore, be taken with propriety whenever, from necessity or choice, the dinner is appointed at a late season. Dinner among the Romans was rather consi- dered as a refreshment to prevent faintness than as a meal to convey nourishment. It con- sisted principally of some light repast, without animal food or wine ; but in modern times it is considered the principal meal, at which every species of luxurious gratification is indulged ia. With regard to the proper period at which in- valids should dine, physicians entei-tain but one opinion: it should be in the middle of the day, or about two or three o'clock. Sir A. Car?isle has justly observed that it is thus best adapted to the decline of animal vigour, because it affords a timely replenishment before the evening waning of the vital powers, and which naturally precedes the hour of rest; besides which the custom tends to pi-event intemperance; while late hours and a consequent state of ex- haustion demand, or seem to justify, an exces- sive indulgence in strong drinks, and in variety of food. The exact period, however, of dinner must be directed by the physician with refer- ence to the necessary habits of his patient, the nature and time of his breakfast, and, above all, to the rapidity or slowness of his digestion. Tea. There is no subject which has occa- sioned a greater controversy amongst dietetic writers than the subject of tea. By one party it is decried as a poison ; by another it is extolled as a medicine, and a valuable addition to our food ; while some refer all its benefittial efTects to the water thus introduced into the system, and its evil consequences to the high tempera- ture at which it is drunk. In order to under- stand the value of the different arguments which have been adduced in support, or to the disparagement of this beverage, it will be neces- sary to inquire into its composition. Two kinds of tea are imported into this country, distin- guished by the epithets black and green. Both contain astringent and narcotic principles, but in very different proportions, the latter pro-