Win WH I [ 5o7 ] curd will collect and subside to the bottom; the whey is now to be strained into another vessel, and sweetened with sugar. It may be flavoui'ed with balm or a slice of lemon. This whey is an agreeable drink when retiring to rest after fatigue, or after being exposed to the in- clemency of the weather, it exciting a gentle perspiration, and may thus sometimes obviate a sudden cold or catarrh. WHIM-WHAM. Sweeten a quart of cream, and add a tea-cupful of white wine and the grated peel of a lemon; whisk it to a fi'oth, which drain upon the back of a sieve, and put part into a deep glass dish ; cut some Naples biscuits as thin as possible, and put a layer lightly over the froth, and one of currant jelly, then a layer of the froth, and one of the biscuit and jelly ; finish with the froth, pour the re- mainder into a dish, and garnish with citron and candied orange-peel cut into straws. WHITE SAUCE. See Bechamel. WHITE SWELLING, or Hydaethrus. A disease of the joints very common in this country: it affects most usually the knee, the ankle, the wrist, and the elbow. As the name of the disease implies, the skin is not, at least in its commencement, altered in its colour. In some instances the swelling yields in a certaiu degree to pressui-e ; but it never fails, and is almost always sufficiently firm, to make an un- informed examiner believe that the bones con- tribute to the tumour. The pain is sometimes vehement from the first; in other instances there is hardly the least pain. This complaint has been commonly divided into the rheumatic and the scrofulous white swelling; but there are, nevertheless, many other varieties, which it is not consistent with the limits of our work to notice, nor perhaps would such notice be of much practical utility to our readers. All the kinds are troublesome diseases, and cured wi^h great difficulty, some- times not at all. The rheumatic white swelling is attended with acute pain over the whole joint, which is increased by heat; the j>atient finds the greatest relief in a relaxed position; the tendons become rigid ; and the joint appears as if the bones were enlarged. The tumour increases to three or four times the size of the knee, and feels elastic to the touch, while the limb decreases or becomes dropsical; at length abscesses are formed, discharging matter which soon degenerates into a fetid ichor. Unless the cure be timely effected the patient is at- tacked with a hectic fever, which generally closes the scene. In the scrofulous kind the pain is more acute, and confined to one spot—the centre of the joint, or the head of the tibia, if the knee be the seat of the disorder; as the complaint pro- ceeds the swelling and stiffness increase, while the ends of the bones become visibly enlarged. Similar elasticity as in the rheumatic kind is perceptible, and abscesses are also formed, which, on being opened, discharge an offensive humour; the bones decay, and pieces are often ejected through the orifices of the wounds; the adjacent parts become progressively aifected, the general health is undermined, and the patient's sufferings end in hectic fever and death. The causes of these complaints are not always known: the most common are sup- pressed perspiration, injudicious treatment of cutaneous disorders, especially of the measles, small pox, erysipelas, &c. External violence— such as falls, blows, and frequent kneeling—has often brought on the complaint: too much care cannot, therefore, be taken in guarding against such common causes of this distressing malady. In the rheumatic white swelling, which is at first of an inflammatory nature, it will be advisable to adopt a cooling regimen; and blood should be taken from the diseased part by cupping or scarification, either of which is preferable to venesection or the application of leeches, and it may be repeated according to the strength of the patient and urgency of the symptoms. Next a blister must be applied to the opposite side, and kept open till the scarified part is healed. Internally, mild cooling laxatives, such as sulphate of magnesia, should be taken oc- casionally. Heating liquors, as well as stimu- lating food, must be also avoided. If a stiff- ness of the knee remain after the swelling has subsided, great benefit will be derived from the application of pure warm olive oil, and from gentle frictions, repeated three or four times a day. If, however, a suppuration has taken place, which may be known by the softness of the tumour, these frictions must be avoided, and recourse be had to the experienced sui'- geon. In the treatment of scrofulous white swellings what is said under King's Evil should be care- fully attended to. When this complaint is con- fined to the smaller joints it has, by those means, been sometimes cured; but when tlie larger joints, such as the knee, ankle, &c., are diseased, amputation is, we fear, the only remedy ; and sometimes, if the whole system be tainted with a scrofulous acrimony, even that operation is frequently ineffectual. In these complaints the best medical and surgical advice should at once be had. We think, however, that the warm or vapour bath, ^in many cases of white swelling, may be eminently advantageous.