SUG SUG [ 471 ] atmosphere, because the acids in the juice have not been removed. By the addition of quick- lime to the juice, in the proportion of about three spoonsful to every fourteen gallons, the sugar loses this property. The impure sugar prepared by this method is called jaganj. Every three quarts of juice, or every 6 lbs., yield about 1 lb. of sugar. From an acre of ground about 5000 lbs. of sugar, and conse- quently about 30,000 lbs. of juice, are obtained. When pure siigar candy is wanted the sugar thus obtained is dissolved in water again, and the same process of boiling with milk and scumming is repeated. When poured into pots thin slices of bamboo are introduced, which prevent it from running into lumps, and induce it to form large crystals. According to Dr. Higgins, who went to the West Indies on purpose to examine the manu- facture of sugar, the juice of the sugar-cane con- tains a great number of bodies; but the most important of them (not reckoning sugar and water) are those which he calls herbaceous matter and melasses acid. Concerning the nature of these substances nothing very precise is known; but the great object of the manufacturer is to remove them, as they impede the crystallising of the sugar. The herbaceous matter is partly held in solution by the water, partly by the carbonic acid. When the liquid is heated to 140° the carbonic acid is dis- engaged, and the herbaceous matter separates in flakes of an olive green colour. This pro- duces the scum. Lime facilitates the separa- tion, partly by abstracting the carbonic acid, and partly by forming an insoluble compound with the herbaceous matter. Hence its use in the first part of the process. It is called temper by the manufacturers. Too much is injurious in the first part of the process. It redissolves the herbaceous matter, or at least deepens the colour of the syrup. The nature of the melasses acid is not better known than that of the herbaceous matter; but it combines with the sugar, and forms an un- crystallisable syrup. Lime is necessary in the last part of the process to remove this acid : it combines with it, and the compound runs off with the syrup during the graining of the sugar. This acid is no doubt that which exists in un- ripe canes, and the quantity of it of course diminishes as the cane improves in quality. The raw sugar from the East and West Indies is usually refined and made into loaf sugar in this country by the process introduced by Mr. Howard. The raw sugar is dissolved in water, clarified by animal charcoal, and boiled down to the requisite consistency in vacuo at a temperature of about 150°. The vacuum is kept up by means of an air pump, wrought all the time by a steam engine ; and the boilers aro globular pans made air-tight, and attached to the air pump. By this ingenious contrivance the whole sugar is obtained without any loss, and freed from all its impurities.—[Thomson.) Sugar is a crystallisable substance, almost as extensively distributed in organised nature as gum, with which it almost coincides in elementary composition. It differs from it in possessing a very agreeable characteristic taste, in being soluble in alcohol as well as in water, and in being susceptible of fermenting whfen it is dis- solved in water, and mixed with glutinous or albuminous substances. The hitherto un- ascertained circumstances which sometimes prevent the crystallisation of the sacchai-ine portion of a juice are also opposed to its fer- mentation. Nitric acid changes sugar into oxalic, but not into mucic acid. Sugar is not changed by exposure to diy or even to humid air. When dissolved in water it is decomposed by the action of air and light, and gives origin to various cryptogamic products, such as mould. When exposed to heat it melts and undergoes decomposition, giving out a peculiar smell (of caramel). When a solution of it is concentrated, exposure for some time to the temperature of 912° is sufficient to render it uncrystallisable. An alkali also deprives it of the property of crystallising, but in this case the addition of an acid restores it. When two pieces of sugar are rubbed together phosphorescent flashes are given out, which are easily perceived in a dark place.— (Baspail.) Besides the sugar of the cane there are various other kinds, as that of grapes, honey, starch, manna, milk, and glycerin, obtained from oils and fatty matters. SUGAE.: To Boil. Provide a copper or bell-metal pan not tinned. A convenient pro- portion is a glass of water to 1 lb. of sugar, which put into the pan, and set over a brisk fire. Almost as soon as the sugar begins to boil it is called the petite lisse. This stage may be known by taking a little of the syrup on the forefinger, and dropping it on the left thumb- nail, when the sugar will spread and remain flat if it he petite lisse. Another mode of judging of the strength of the syrup is to take some on the forefinger, place it on the thumb-nail, and gently attempt to draw out the sugar, when the strength of the thread will be according to tho time the sugar has been boiled. But there is a more certain means of know- ing the state of boiling by the saccharometer, to be bought at any optician's. It consists of a small tin tube, atid a rod graduated and marked by degrees, and having a weight at the lower