[ 335 ]1 PL A PIS and then stir into it 3 ozs. of powder sugar and '-i ozs. of dry currants; spread this prepa- ration over a well-buttered tin to the thickness of half an inch, and put it in a brisk oven for a quarter of an hour. When done cut it in pieces two inches square; glaze, and cover them lightly with minced pistachios. PISTACHIOS, GATEAU OF. Set half a pint of milk on the fire, and mix with it a sufficient quantity of flour to make it of the con- sistence of thick cream. When done add to it ^ lb. of pistachios, the same of sweet almonds, (both blanched and pounded to a fine paste), a pinch of fine orange flower, sugar, four whole eggs, put in one at a time, the yolks of six. and J lb. of melted butter. Stir all these ingredients well, and having whipped the six whites, add them lightly, colour it with a little spinach green, and pour the whole preparation into a well-buttered mould; put it into a hot oven, and bake for three quarters of an hour; then draw it out, turn it on a dish, and serve. PITCH. See Tar. PITCH.BURGUNDY. 5ee Burgundy Pitch. PLA.GUE. Symptoms resembling those of putrid fever are increased and rapid in their progress. It may be known from putrid fever by the aggravation and urgency of its symptoms, and by the greater tendency to carbuncles and glandular tumours. The danger, which is always extreme, will be proportioned to delirium and prostration of strength. Profuse intestinal evacuation, discharges of blood, disposition of the carbuncles to a mortified state, and sudden starting of the tendons, are pi'eludes of approaching dissolution. An early formation of glandular tumours, whose suppuration it will be proper to promote, is to he considered as salutary. Appearances, on dissection, are similar to those o'' putrid fever, with this difference—that the gall bladder is generally found full of black bile ; that the liver is considerably enlarged ; and that the lungs, kidneys, and intestines are beset with carbuncles. The food should consist of such articles as tea with cream and sugar, coffee, jellies, sago with wine, ripe fruit (such as currants, straw- berries, grapes, and roasted apples), together with puddings, fruit pies, and tarts. Beef tea, chicken or fish, in small quantity, and by de- grees still stronger articles of nutritious diet, may, when the stomach will bear them, be also had recourse to. Tlie drink should be negus, or water sharpened with the juice of orange or lemon. Apple tea, or cold water with toasted bread, also cyder, perry, and bottled ale or porter, are proper. A glass of wine, such as. port, claret, sherrv, or Madeira, may be occasionally taken. Mild temperature is necessary. With this view heat should be so modified as to produce it. The air in the apartment should not be suffered so to stagnate as to abound with that which is lethal. On the contrary, such as is suitably impregnated with vital air should be admitted. This may be done by opening the doors and windows of some adjoining apartment. A horizontal position may be preserved. Unnecessary motion ought to be avoided. The slightest tendency to sleep must be encouraged. The hands and face are occasionally to be washed with cold water. Such parts of the skia as feel hot without perspiration may be ex- posed to a current of cool air. The cold parts, on the contrary, should be covered with flannel. Even the body itsel.', under strong operation of heat, unattended with perspiration, may occasionally, with advantage, be generally wiped Avith a sponge dipped either in cold vinegar and water, or water in its pure state. It should be afterwards rubbed dry. This may be re- garded as a more convenient process than a sudden effusion of cold water, which has been recommended. The influence ol objects on the organs of sense, such as light and sound, should, during the urgency of the symptoms, be partially withheld. Hence the room should be somewhat darkeued, and noise ought to be avoided. Hope, fortitude, and mild mental exertion should be supported. Such things as seem capable of being im- pregnated with infection ought to be removed to situations whence the healthy may not suffer from them. The air should be freely admitted into the apartment in which the sick person is placed, and it should be frequently sprinkled with vinegar. The fumes of minera lacids may be also diffused in it. To obtain these, the doors and windows being previously shut, ^oz. of sulphuric acid may be put into a china cup or deep saucer. This should be warmed by placing it over a lamp, or on heated sand, adding at intervals chloride of sodium (common salt) or nitrate of potash (nitre). The apartment should be subsequently ventilated. The linen should be often changed. The excrementitious matter ought instantly to bo removed. None should approach but such as are wanted. Infection must be guarded against by banishing the apprehension of danger, by frequent wash- ing of the hands and face, and by the temperate use of wine and generous diet. A vomit ought to be taken on the commence- ment of these diseases. Febrifuge cordials, volatiles, and corroborants, such as Peruvian bark, become occasionally useful. Nitric aeid»