POR POR I 348 ] lamented their disappointment. In the third Idyllium the goatherd tells AmarvHis that he had lately tried whether she loved him, but the telephion gave no crack. PORCELAIN. See Earthilkwaee. PORK. The carcass of the hog consists of the following:— 1. The leg, 4. The fore-loin. 2. The hand. 5. The hind-loiii. 3. The belly or spring. 6. The sparerib. Dairy-fed pork is the best. The flesh should look white and smooth, and the fat be white and fine. In preparing a hog for bacon the ribs are cut, with a very little flesh on them, from the side, which has the fore and hind-leg attached to it. The hind-leg is called the gammon of bacon; but it is generally re- served for a ham. On each side there is a large sparerib, which is usually divided into two pieces, one called the sweet-bone, the other the blade- bone. There are also griskins, chine, or back- bone. Hog's lard is the inner fat of the bacon hog. Porkers are not so old as hogs. They make excellent pickled pork, but are chosen more particularly for roasting. The manner of cutting up the pork varies in different counties, and also according to the purposes for which it is intended. The legs are either made into hams, or slightly salted for a few days, and boiled. They are also sometimes roasted when the pork is not large nor coarse, with a savoury forcemeat inserted between the skin and flesh of the knuckle. The part ,of the shoulder called the hand is also occasionally pickled in the same way as hams and bacon, or it may be salted and boiled; but it is too sinewy for roasting. After these and the head have been taken off, the remainder', w'ithout further division than being split down the back, may be converted into whole sides, or flitches, as they are usually called, of bacon ; but when the meat is large, and required in part for various other purposes, a chine may be taken out, and the fat pared off the bones of the ribs and loins for bacon ; the thin part of the body converted iatP pickled pork; and the ribs and other bones roasted, or made into pies and sausages. The feet, which are generally salted down for imme- diate use, are excellent if laid in the same pickle as the hams two or three weeks, then well covered with cold water, and slowly boiled until tender, The loins of young and delicate pork are roasted with the skin on, and this is scored in regular stripes of about a quarter of an inch ■wide, with the point of a sharp knife, before the joints are laid to the fire. The skin of the leg also is just cut through in the same manner. This is done to prevent its blistering, and to render it more easy to carve, as the skin or crackling becomes so crisp and hard in cooking that it is otherwise sometimes difficult to divide it. To be at any time fit for table it must be perfectly sweet and thoroughly cooked. Great attention also should be given to it when it is iu pickle, for if any part of it be long exposed to the air, without being turned into, or ^yell and frequently basted with, the brine, it will often become tainted during the process of curing it. To roast a leg a small onion is minced to- gether with three sage leaves, seasoned with pepper and salt, and put under the skin at the knuckle-bone. The skin is cut into strips nearly half an inch apart, and rubbed over with a bit of butter. If weighing 7 lbs. or 8 lbs. it will require nearly three hours to roast. A sparerib should be roasted. It is basted with butter, and has sage leaves, dry, rubbed to a powder, and mijvcd with salt and pepper, sprinkled over it. Both a loin and neck are jointed, the skin scored in narrow strips, and rubbed with butter. If weighing 6 lbs. or 7 lbs. it will require rather more than two hours to roast, A griskin may be either broiled or roasted. A chine is stuffed here and there with bread crumbs mixed with a little butter, and seasoned some with finely shred sage, parsley, and thyme, pepper, and salt. The skin is cut into strips, and rubbed with butter; it is then roasted, and served with apple sauce, as are also the preceding roasts. A porker's head is stuffed like a sucking pig, sewed firmly, and hung on a string to roast. The shoulder maybe roasted; but, being very fat, it is generally preferred pickled. The breast may be made into a pie or broiled. Hams should be put on the fire in water with the chill taken off, and simmered for four or five hours, taking care not to allow them to boil. The prime season for pork is from November to March. Take particular care it be done enough; other meats underdone are unpleasant, but pork is absolutely disgusting; the sight of it is enough to appal the sharpest appetite if its gravy has the least tint of redness.