[ 286 J 0 YS OXF salt, pepper, and mace; strew amongst tliem a little shred parsley, thyme, and two or three shallots ; put a good lump of butter into a stew- pan, and as soon as it is hot put in all your collops ; keep stirring them with a wooden spoon till they are three parts done, then add half a pint of gravy, a little piece of lemon, thicken the gravy with flour rolled up, let the collops simmer four or five minutes, and they will be quite enough. If you let them boil, or have them ready before wanted, they will be hard. Strew fried pieces of bread over and round them. Serve hot. OXFOKD NIGHT CAPS. See Night Caps. OXFORD SAUSAGES. Mince fine equal parts of pork and veal, add to every pound ^ lb of beef suet; steep m water 1 oz. ot crumb of bread for every pound of meat, and mix it with the meat, adding sage, pepper, and salt; fill and tie very short, almost round. They are much better if pounded, and having a little garlic and sugar added. OXIDATION. See Corrosion of Metals. OYSTER CATSUP. Take some fine fresh Milton oysters ; wash them in their own liquor, then pound them in a marble mortar, and to a pint of oysters add a pint of sherry. Boil them up, and add 1 oz. of salt, 2 drachms of pounded mace, and I drachm of Cayenne; let the whole just boil up again, skim it, and rub it through a sieve. When cold put it into Lotties, cork them well, and seal them down. It is best to pound the spices and salt in the mortar with the oysters. OYSTER CURRY. See Curries. OYSTER FRITTERS. Let the oysters hlanch, but not boil; mince them, and mix with minced cooked mushrooms, a little rasped lard, finely minced suet or marrow, parsley, shallot, mace, and pepper. Mix it into a thin, tough batter; finish as other fritters; serve in a napkin or upon crisped parsley at the second course, as the French do, as a plat de rot. They may be done without the mushrooms. Cooked separately they make two excellent dishes : they may be seasoned sweet. Oysters make excellent sulpicon. OYSTER LOAVES. Take out the crumb of some small loaves, and lay oysters in a stewpan, with their liquor, the bread, and a piece of butter. Stew all these five or six minutes, then add a spoonful of cream, fill up the loaves, placing a little crust on the top of each, and bake them. OYSTER PATTIES (1). Roll oxit some puh paste a quarter of an inch thick, cut it into squares, sheet with them eight or ten patty pans, and put upon each a small piece of bread. Roll out another layer of paste of the same thickness, cut it as before, wet the edge of the bottom paste, lay on the top, pare the edges round, and notch them with the back of a knife; rub them with the yolk of egg, and bake them in a hot oven about a quarter of an hour. When done take a thin slice off the top, and with a knife or spoon take out the bread and inside paste, leaving the outside entire. Parboil two dozen large oysters, and strain them from their liquor; wash, beard, and cut them into four pieces; put them into a stewpan, with 1 oz. of butter rolled in flour, half a gill of cream, some grated lemon-peel, the oyster liquor that has been reduced by boiling to one-half, some Cayenne, salt, and a tea - spoonful of lemon juice. Stir the whole over the fire five minutes, and fill the patty pans. OYSTER PATTIES (2). Open your oysters, and as you do so separate them from the liquor, which must be strained ; beard the oysters, and then parboil them. Parboil some sweetbreads, cut them in slices, place them and the oysters in layers, and season very mode- rately with salt, pepper, and mace ; then add half a tea-cupful of liquor and half a tea-cupfu' of gravy, bake in a slow oven, and before you serve put in a tea-cupful of cream, a little more oyster liquor, and a cupful of white gravy, all warmed, but not boiled. If for patties the oysters must be cut into small dice, gently stewed and seasoned as above, and put into the paste when ready for the table. OYSTER PIE. In opening the oysters take care of the liquor; strain, beard, and par- boil the fish ; do the same with sweetbreads, which last must be cut in slices, and disposed with the oysters in layers, seasoned lightly with salt, pepper, and mace. Put half a tea-cupful of the liquor and as much gravy into the dish, cover the oysters with a crust, and bake the pie in a slow oven. On taking it out, add a tea- cupful of cream, some more oyster liquor, and a cupful of white gravy warm, but not boiling. OYSTER PIE, SWEET. Prepare and mince some large oysters with the same quan- tity of hard eggs, nutmegs, ginger, savory, thyme, pepper, salt, sugar, and bread crumbs soaked in cream; dab six hard eggs with anchovy, and cover with farce. Make small balls, inclosing an oyster or a bit of marrow; line a shallow pie dish with paste, spread over it a little farce, and strew it with finely minced citron, orange-peel, eryngo, and a little sugar. Lay in the oysters, make up the pie with the balls, &c., and cover with alight, thin, sugar paste; or, instead of the confected peels, use currants, sugar, and lemon juice, or the whole. This is an elegant top second-course dish. OYSTER POWDER. Open the oysters so