[ 316 ] * PER PEE be repeated till the required degree of bright- ness is obtained, the liquor being each time drawn off on the second or third day from its precipitated lees. About 1^ oz. or 2 ozs. of isinglass are generally put into a cask of a hundred and ten gallons at once. Were its mode of action purely mechanical there could be no objection to a larger quantity ; but it has also a chemical action on the liquor. It combines ■with, and carries down, the tannin principle; and hence, during the process of fining, the liquor is deprived of a large portion of its astringency. This substance is most readily dilfused in liquors by boiling; but by this it is dissolved and converted into glue, and its or- ganisation, on which alone its powers of fining depend, is totally destroyed. I3ut when perry can be made sufficiently brown without it, it is better not to use the isinglass, as the liquor is rendered extremely agreeable to the eye by it, but is thought to become more thm and acid by its action. In the after-management of perry the method is the same as that of cyder; but it does not bear situations where it is exposed to much change of temperature so well, and its future merit cannot be so well judged of by its present state. In the bottle it almost always retains its good qualities, and in that situation it is best to be put, if it remains sound and perfect, at the conclusion of the first succeeding summer. The above directions are principally accordiiig to Mr. Knight's rules. PERRY VINEGAR. The pears which fall from the trees are picked up, cut into slices, and put into casks; water is poured over them, and they are left exposed to the sun, and yeast is added to the fermentation. When the vinegar is made, strain and let it rest for some days, after which a deposit is formed. Draw off the vinegar carefully, and bottle it. PERSICA. Cut about one hundred peach leaves, put them into a wide-mouthed bottle, pour on them a quart of the best brandy, and cork it closely: in three weeks strain it off, and put it in an equal quantity of capillaire. It is good in custards, puddings, and as a liqueur. PERSPIRATION. Of all the natural evacu- ations none is so important and extensive, none is carried on with less interruption, and none frees the body from so many impurities, par- ^ ticularly from acrid and thin humours, as insen- ' sible perspiration. The health of man chiefly depends on the proper state of this function; the irregularities occurring in it occasionally produce peevishness.of temper, headache, dis- turbed sleep, heaviness in the limbs, &c.; and, on the contrary, we find ourselves most lively and vigorous when it is duly and uniformly performed. A person of a middle stature, and in perfect health, perspires, according to the calculation of some, fi'om three to four pounds' weight, accord- ing to others, about five pounds, within twenty- four hours. The exudation by the pores is most essential during the night, the noxioas particles only being then sej)arated, which, on account of the disturbances we are exposed to through the day, cannot be so well effected, as the circulation of the blood is interrupted, while at night it is comparatively more calm and regular ; besides which, the nocturnal perspira- tion is more copious, from the greater uniformity of the surrounding atmosphere. Most of the febrile diseases arise from a suppressed perspiration, as the exuded matter is of an acrid and irritating nature. To transpire beneficially means that the impure and per- nicious particles only be ejected, in which case the perspiration is invisible and imperceptible. This is so essential a requisite, that without it the health of the individual cannot long subsist. The reciprocal connection between the functions of the stomach and of perspiration is so obvious, that if the latter be checked the former is imme- diately affected, and the reverse takes place if the stomach be disordered. The more vigorously a person perspires (it ought to be well remarked that the question here is not of sueating), the more active are the powers of the body iu the regular concoction of the alimentary juices, and the more certain it is that no fluids will superabound; for the fluids, though refined and subtle, far exceed in weight the more compact and solid parts of the system, so that they would oppress the machine like a heavy burden if not evacuated by the pores of the skin. Most individuals, however, are accus- tomed to direct their attention only to evacua- tions of a more gross nature, or such as aro more obvious to the senses. But insensihle perspiration is of greater moment than all the other excretions; and by paying due regard to that function, if it should be accidentally dis- turbed, we may frequently discover the lurking cause of a distemper, and remove it before it has materially injured the body. Yet even in the most healthy this perspira- tion is not at all times, nor at all hours of the day, equally active. It is weaker after a plen- tiful meal, but as soon as the food is digested we again perspire with increased energy; for the new chyle being changed into blood, imparts additional efficacy to the vital powers, as well as to the circulation of the blood itself. As we perspire considerably more in summer than iu winter, our mode of life with respect to sleep, as well as to food and drink, ought to be regulated accordingly. We know, from E^ccurate observa- tion, that if we retire to bed immediately after supper the process of perspiration is checked