[ 512 ] TUR cooked separately, as they will require more or less doing ; and this is the greatest difficulty in doing turtle, as, if it is done too much in the first dressing, it gets slimy: all ex-cept the in- testines ought to be three quarters done. When prepared let them cool; take the breast shell, raise the meat from it, and farce with higher- seasoned farce than the trirtle, to which Cayenne has been added. There is no occasion to make this farce of the turtle ; it may be made of the veal the stock was made of, of fish, or a mixture of both: this also allows a greater quantity of farce to be made, and enlarges the quantity of turtle. If the breast shell is not to be served with the meat attached to it, the meat is to be cut off in pieces about the size of a fist, which, after being three-fourths cooked in butter, are to be split with a knife and farced. When all is ready take a large vessel that will hold the whole, except the intestines, melt 1 lb. of butter in it, or more, according to the quantity, put in an equal quantity of sifted flour, and work it till it becomes a fine roux ; add the whole stock by degrees, work and cook it smooth, add the juice of two large lemons and Cayenne, strain, and put in from three to four pints of ]\Iadeira. Put the meat, being all nicely cut, into the sauce, and let it simmer: take care it does not boil. In the meantime put a handsome border round the shell, and fold it over as if it were lined : the breast shell may be bordered or fitted to a dish, where the border will meet it. The other dishes may be all lightly bordered, and handsome light croquant covers made for them ; but handsomely and lightly bordered dishes, with puffed napldns, give a turtle course a very handsome appearance. If the green fat has been taken out of the large shell it is to be returned into it; then fill up with the cut meat and sauce, cover with farce balls and eggs, and set in a dish into a properly heated oven for the paste ; or the meat m.ay be filled in after the paste, baked, and browned with a salamander; but in doing so care must be taken that the paste is not soiled. The breast shell is to be served at the top, or the farced white meat is to be dressed in a deep dish, filled up with sauce and meat, and garnished with balls and eggs. It may be finished also in the oven. The intestines being cut, are served in sauce at one side, and may be fricasseed; the fins in sauce at the other, and the soup in the middle. If seven dishes are to be served put the hearts, lights, and liver in the centre. These are to be more highly seasoned with lemon juice, claret, garlic, and Cayenne, and thickened before serving with the blood. Have stock ready for the soup, which should not be either so rich or highly seasoned as the turtle ; but a little cream and almonds ir.ay be added. Dish it into two tureens, and divide whatever is left of the turtle from the other dishes into them, and put in eggs, farce, and bread balls of a smaller size than those put into the turtle. This soup should be no thicker than thin cream, and if well made it is not necessary to put in any turtle. The stock for the soup may be made of eels or sturgeon, or a mixture of them with the veal. When families get patent turtle in the country, directions for serving ai-e sent along with it: two quarts are generally allowed for twelve, that is to say, in the solid, which makes a handsome dish or two. A good cook, having prepared plenty of nice stock as above, with sturgeon, calf's feet or head and chitterlings, pig's lungs and liver, may much enlarge her course. Eeal turtle and all the imitations of it are the better for being pre- pared a day or two before, particularly by such as are not accustomed to make it. TURTLE, IMITATION. Let the cook make a fish stock of eels, flounders, skate, or any of the cheap fishes, and season exactly as for TuKTLE Soup, with the same sweet herbs and spices, and if sturgeon can be had cook it in butter, cut in pieces about the size of a fist, and farce it; or let a large piece be farced round the edge, slashed and seasoned, and cooked in the oven, and serve it in a paste border. The head of the sturgeon is an excellent addition to the turtle. If two or three large heads can be had cook them in the stock, let them cool, draw out the bones, and cut them in pieces ; have half or a whole calf's head ready cooked in its own juice, and cut in pieces ; (they may be also pre- pared as calf or pig's chitterlings); cut and pre- pare them as turtles ; make plenty of farce with the fish that the stock was made of; follow the directions as given in either of the receipts throughout as to seasoning and cooking, and add carrots, onions, sugar, and a little garlic to the stock to raise the flavour. The only difficulty is in the proportioning the meat and fish, which should be, if possible, three-fourths fish, but half will do — say the stock entirely fish, with a large calf's head and two neat's feet, which will give enough stock for jellies for a large entertainment, while the head will give stock for the sauces. Three cods' heads and the veal of a large sturgeon, added to these, will make a handsome course of imitation turtle, from forty to fifty covers, for a private entertainment. If there is no sturgeon prepare a piece of fillet of veal as in imitation of tunny fish [see Vkal), or simmer it in butter and spices; do not let it boil, and farce with a high-seasoned farce. A very handsome course of five or seven