STY STU [ 408 ] potted meats, calf's udder or brains, veal suet or marrow, mutton, beef, cold fowl, scraped ham, fat bacon, yolks of bard eggs, oysters, and anchovy. The vegetable ingredients' are thyme, mar- joram, summer and winter savory, sage, tarragon, basil, chervil, bay leaves, trufSes, and morels (all these may be either fresh and green, or in dried powder); onions, leeks, garlic, shallots, parsley, spinach, and mashed potatoes ; besides ■which there are flour, bread crumbs, black and ■white pepper, allspice, Cayenne pepper, mace, cinnamon, nutmeg, ginger, cloves, and mush- room powder. The liquids are ml¥at gravy, lemon juice, syrup of lemon, essence of anchovy, wine, and catsup. STURGEON. Of a good sturgeon the flesh should be white, the gristles and veins blue, the grain even, with a few blue veins, and tlie skin tender. STURGEON, BAKED. Clean and take the skin from a small sturgeon, and split it along the belly without separating it; lay it in a large baking dish, season it with salt, pepper, pounded sweet herbs, and moisten it with lemon juice, oil, and a bottle of white wine ; put it in the oven, and baste it frequently; make it a nice colour, and serve it with its own gravy. STURGEON, FRICANDEAU OF. Take a good-sized piece of sturgeon, and having re- moved the skin and gristle, beat it lightly with the blade of the chopper, and lard it with bacon; line a stewpan with some thin slices of ham, veal, some carrots, onions, and sweet herbs; moisten with white wine, cover it with a buttered paper, and stew it. When done take out the fish, strain the liquor, clear off the fat, add thi"ee spoonsful of Espagnole, reduce your sauce, pour it into a dish, and serve the sturgeon on it. STURGEON, GRILLADE OF. Boil a slice of sturgeon in a small saucepan, with some slices of bacon, bay leaves, salt, pepper, basil, and white wdne. When done let it cool, cover it with bread crumbs, broil the slice, and serve with sauce piqnante. STURGEON, MATELOTE OF. Cut a large slice of sturgeon into various pieces, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and do them on both sides over a gentle fire; then take them out, and put into the pan a glass of red wine, a pinch of flour, and some sweet herbs shred small; in a quarter of an hour replace the fisli for a minute, an^l serve the whole together on fried bread. STURGEON, ROASTED. Take a large piece of sturgeon, or a whole small one; clean and skin it properly, lard it with eels and an- chovies, and marinate it in a white marinade. Fasten it to the spit and roast it, basting fre- quently with the marinade strained. Let the fish be a nice colour, and serve with a pepper sauce. STURGEON IN SAVOURY JELLY. Put a little aspic or savoury jelly into the bottom of a mould, and as soon as it is set cut some cold sturgeon in whatever form you please, and place it on the jelly according to your own taste, adding jelly sufBcient to cover the sturgeon. When it is thoroughly set put it in more jelly, so as to fill about an inch of the mould; when that is set place some more sturgeon, and so proceed till the mould is full. When it is to be turned out to serve dip it in warm water the same as for all iellies. STURGEON SOUP. Take a fine piece of sturgeon, and cut off the fins and the gristly bone inside, with the skin; put it all to stew, with a bunch of sweet herbs, cari-ots, allspice, onions, peppercorns, and a little salt, and let it stew till of a nice brown colour; then fill it up with veal consomme, half a bottle of Madeira, and a quarter of a pint of good vinegar. When well boiled and skimmed put in a large piece of sturgeon to stew very gently till it is thoroughly done; then take it out to cool, strain the liquor through a lawn sieve, thicken it with ham as directed for Turtle Soup, and boil it in the same manner. When ready cut the stur- geon into small squares, and put them into the soup, with a few stewed oysters and mushrooms; let it boil gently for a few minutes, skim it, squeeze in the juice of two lemons, add a very small quantity of Cayenne, and serve. If not sufficiently strong reduce a little beef stock, and add to it. Herbs may be added if thought proper. STUTTERING. See Impediment of Speech. STYPTICS are really astringents, but is a name usually giv^i to such applications as check an effusion of blood. See Bleeding at THE Nose. "Various vegetables may be advantageously employed as external styptics, such as the agaric, puff-ball, &c.; but there are certain preparations of greater efficacy, the principal of which is the compound powder of alum. It consists of 1^ oz. of alum and 3 drachms of gum kino, which are finely pulvei'ised and incor- porated. One of the most successful styptics, however, is prepared by mixing one part of the caustic volatile alkali with three parts of water. If this fluid be applied to a fresh wound it effectually checks the flowing of blood both from large and small vessels. The following styptic powder has proved un- commonly efficacious in suppressing profuse uterine hemorrhages, namely, Peruvian bark, S drachms ; cinnamon, 1 drachm ; bloodstone