IND [ 70 1 IND slowly pervaoed by the gastric fluid. Even bread sufficiently old is oppressive if taken alone and in large quantity, as it forms a mass not very readily pervaded. Cookery. On the same principle, food is often rendered more indigestible by processes employed with a view to assist the stomach. All articles composed of strong jellies, and food carefully mashed, are oppressive. The coarser division which our food undergoes in mastica- tion is better suited to assist digestion. Most dyspeptics find that potatoes, for example, finely mashed, although without any admixture, are more difficult of digestion than when properly masticated. During mastication the saliva is freely mixed with them, and a loose mass is formed. When they are mashed they resist admixture with the saliva as well as the gastric fluid. Our food is rendered more easy of digestion by simple roasting or boiling, provided it is not too much done. Beyond this the art of cookery is nothing but that of pleasing the palate at the expense of the stomach. There are a few circumstances under which it is proper to bribe a patient to eat; under all others the refinements of the cook are at variance with the objects of the physician. However imposing the plans of concentrating much nutriment in small compass may at first view appear, we may be well assured that, in such concentration, something is taken away from what nature designed for our food which is useful to us. It is not generally known that the most con- centrated decoction of beef, so far from afford- ing much nutriment, will not, if unmixed with something solid, even allay the calls of hunger. Some time ago a person was attacked with severe pain of the face when even the smallest quantity of any sohd food was put on the stomach. A single mouthful of bread never failed to bring on the attack; and, as he at length refused' all solid food, he was confined for some weeks to a strong decoction of beef; but however strong, and in whatever quantity it was taken, it never satisfied the appetite, and he rapidly emaciated. Fresh vegetables, on account of their tend- ency to ferment, are, on the whole, injurious in indigestion. Some vegetables, however, are less so than others. Peas, beans, cabbage, and waxy potatoes are the worst; mealy potatoes, turnips, and broccoli among the best. They should always be boiled till they are soft. Raw vegetables of all kinds are oppressive; lettuce appears to be the least so. The tough, thready, and membranous parts of vegetables are most difficult of digestion. Fruits are also difficult of digestion, par- ticularly the cold fruits, melons, cucumbers, ^ ». &c.; and next to these the mucilaginous fruits, gooseberiies, pears, &c. Apples and straw- ben'ies are, on the whole, lightest; but we more frequently find peculiarities in the stomach with respect to fruits than other articles of diet. To many stomachs the most acescent fruits, currants, mulberries, &c., are particularly offensive. All preserved fruits are oppressive, the large proportion of sugar adding much to their indigestible quality. To some dyspeptics sugar is so oppressive that they are obliged to abstain even from the small quantity used in tea. Most stomachs bear acids better than f.cescents. Bread is not the worse for being hard, pro- vided it be properly masticated. All hard and tough animal food, particularly if it be salted, which adds to its hardness, is of difficult diges- tion. It seems to be from its hardness that smoked meat is oppressive Hard and tough animal food cannot, by mastication, be reduced to the loose pultaceous form which hard bread assumes. There are tew things m common use so oppressive as butter. It appears to be more so than the fat of meat The fat of mutton is less difficult of digestion than beef, and the fat of venison less so than either. The same may be said of the fat of turtle ; but all kinds of fat are oppressive to a w^ak stomach, and that of which we are inclined to eat the most is generally on this account the worst. We have little ex- perience of oil in this country; but probably olive oil, to a stomach accustomed to it, is less oppressive than butter, and than most kinds of fat. All oily substances are rendered more oppres- sive by being fried as in many of our dishes; yet such is the peculiaiity observed in particular cases, that sometimes a dyspeptic can digest fried bacon pretty well who could not digest mutton, as if the strong stimulus of the former had excited a secretion of gastric fluid, where the milder stimulus of the mutton had failed. It seems to be on a similar principle that the stomach will often digest a little of anything for which the patient greatly longs, and that the appetite sometimes increases after we begin to eat. Cheese is in general still more difficult of digestion than either butter or fat. With their oily nature it combines the hardness and tough- ness of the dry and compressed curd, which is very difficult of minute division. Milk and cream, with their preparations, are generally oppressive in proportion to their richness; but the same proportion of cream mixed with water is more digestible than milk. Much seasoning is injurious, both by the unnatural excitement which it occasions, by