[ 3 ] The lump of magnesia or the balls of fullers' earth will remove grease from silk; but a much safer specific, as regards preserving the colour, is the following, which may likewise- be used for woollen, and even for linen articles, though not so good for these latter as the expungents specially recommended for them :—Reduce to an im- palpable powder 1 oz. of French chalk and 5 ozs. of very fine pipeclay; mix them well together, and add to them 2 ozs. of spirit of wine. Work the mi.Kture into a paste, and then form it into rolls about the length and size of a finger. Let these rolls dry, and they will be fit for use. They are to be applied to the silk in the same manner as fullers' earth balls are applied to woollen cloths, and then washed out with cold water. These rolls will also remove grease spots from any kind of stuffs without injury to the colour. GREEN BEANS FOR WINTER USE, Boil salt and water to make a strong pickle, string the beans, put them in a tight wooden firkin, and sprinkle thenj with salt as they go in. When the pickle is cold pour it on, and put on a weight to keep the beans under. They will keep in a cellar till the next spring, They should soak several hours in cold water before thev are boiled. GREEN CURRANT WINE. The currants must be full grown, but not yet beginning to redden. Strip them from the stems, weigh them, and to every 3 lbs. allow a gallon of soft water; mash them well, and proceed exactly the same as for GoosEBERHT Champagne, except that you may use the best light-coloured brown sugar instead of loaf. Instead of bottling it, as soon as it has done fermenting you may, when- ever the hissing is over, put in the bung tightly, and let the wine remain in the cask. In six months it will be fit for drinking. GREEN CUSTARD. _ Put in a marble or white-ware mortar a sufficient quantity of fresh spinach till you have extracted as much green juice as will fill a half-pint tumbler or two common-sized wine-glasses; mix this quantity of spinach juice with a quart of rich unskimmed milk, and J lb. of loaf sugar broken very small ; flavour it with a wine-glass of peach water, or with the yellow rind of two large lemons grated off on some of the largest lumps of the sugar, or for the flavouring you may use a vanilla bean, or a handful of bitter almonds or peach kernels, boiled a long time in half a pint of milk, which must then be strained and mixed with the other milk. Beat eight eggs, or the yolks only of sixteen, till very light; mix them with the milk, &c. (first straining the beaten eggs), and having stirred the whole very hard, pour it into a white-ware pitcher, and set it in a pot rather more than hfilf full of boiling wa^er j place jt on a stove or a bed of hot coals on the hearth, stir it to the bottom, and Watch it continually till it has almost come to a boil. When very near boiling take it off the fire immediately, for if it quite boils it will curdle. Set it away to get cold. When lukewarm it will be an improvement to stir into it two table-spoonsful or more of rose water. Cover the bottom of a large glass bowl or a deep dish with slices of sponge cake or Naples biscuit; then put on green sweetmeats, such as preserved goose- berries, greengages, green grapes, or green citron melon. When the custard is quite cold pour it on, and fill up the bowl with it. If made as above this will be found both delicious and ornamental for a dessert or supper table. GREEN FRITTERS are made the same as Sweetmeat Fritters, but coloured by the juice of spinach, extracted by pounding it in a mortar. GREEN SAUCE. Mix together a quarter of a pint of sorrel juice, a glass of white wine, and some scalded gooseberries ; then add sugar and a bit of butter. Boil them up. GREENGAGE JAM. Rub ripe green- gages through a large hair sieve, and put them into a preserving pan; then to I lb. of pulp add 1 lb. of sifted sugar, after which boil to a proper thickness, skinj it clean, and put it into small pots. GREENGAGES: To Candy. When finished in the syrup [see Greengages: To Preserve) put a layer into a new sieve, and dip it suddenly into hot water to take off the syrup that hangs about it; then put it on a napkin before the fire to drain, and do some moi-e on the sieve. Have ready some sifted double-refined sugar, sift this all over every part of the fruit till it is perfectly white, set it on the shallow end of a sieve in a lightly warm oven, and turn ■ it two or three times. It must not be cold till dry. Watch it carefully. GREENGAGES: To Preserve. You must choose the largest when they begin to soften. Split without paring them, and having previously weighed an equal quantity of sugar, strew a part of it over them, and blanch the kernels with a small sharp knife. Next day pour the syrup from the fruit, and boil it with the other sugar very gently for six or eight minutes ; skim, and add the plums and kernels. Simmer till plear, taking off any scum that rises ; put the fruit singly into small pots, and pour the syrup and kernels upon it. GREENGAGES, COMPOTE OF. Take greengages, prick thena with a pin, and set them on the fire in a pan of cold water till they are softened ; then take then; ofiF, and let them cool in the same water. When that is done take the highest degree of clarified sugar, put