ICE ICI then pass it through a sieve, and finish in the general way. ICES, CURRANT (Fresh-water). Pass through a sieve a pint of currants, add to them 4 ozs. of powder sugai' and one pint of water, strain, and freeze richly. ICES, GINGER CREAM. Make halt a pint of good custard, hoil 1 oz. of the best ground ginger, sweeten it, add half a pint of cream and a little lemon juice, and put into it, half frozen, 2 ozs. of preserved ginger cut in small dice. Go on as for former ices. ICES, LEMON-WATER. Rub on sugai the clean rinds of lemons, squeeze the juice of two lemons, strain it, and boil the sugar into a strong thick syrup; add to the juice half a pint of water or good barley water, sweeten it with your symp, and add the white of an egg and some jelly. ICES, ORANGE-WATER. lake as many oranges as will be necessary, cut them in half, press the juice from them, take the pulp care- fully from the rind, put it into a bowl, poui a little boiling water on it, stir it well, and strain it through a sieve, mix this with the orange juice, and stir in as much sugar as will make a rich syrup. If the oranges are fine rub some of the sugar on the peel to extract the essence. Freeze it like ice cream. ICES, PINE-APPLE CREAM. Pare a ripe juicy pine-apple, chop it up finel}', and pound it to extract the juice; cover it with sugar, and let it lie awhile in a china bowl. When the sugar has entirely melted strain the juice into a quart of good cream, and add rather less than ] lb. of loaf sugar. Beat up the cream, and freeze it in the same manner as common ice cream, ICES, RED CURRANT WATER. Use either the syi'up from currants or currant jelly dissolved, and half a pint of barley water, always cold. Use a little lemon juice The '•est as for former ices. ICES, ROMAN PUNCH. To make a gallon take one pint and a half of the best brandy, the same quantity of the best rum, three gills of good Madeira or sherry, 1 lb. of loaf sugar, and six lemons; rub four of the lemons on the sugar, and then mix as you would for punch, with two quarts and a half of water Freeze it as ice cream is frozen. ICES, STRAWBERRY CREAM. Pass a pint of picked strawberries through a sieve with a wooden spoon, add 4 ozs. of powder sugar and a pint of cream, and freeze. ICES, VANILLA CREAM. Take two quarts of rich cream and one quart of rich milk; put the milk on the fire, cut up a vanilla, beat it in small pieces, and throw them into the milk, letting them boil half an hour. Beat up a table-spoonful of flour or powdered arrowroot in some cold milk, and stir it gradually into the boiling milk. Beat up three eggs well, adding a little cold milk to them ; pour them into the boiling milk, and boil the whole together a few minutes, stirring it all the time ; take it off the fire, and strain it through a fine sieve ; add the two quarts of cream and 3 lbs. of sugar, and stir it till the sugar is dissolved. When cold put it in a freezer, which should be made of pewter, though block tin is often used ; place the freezer in a deep pail, which should be partly filled with pounded ice, and surround it with coarse salt and ice in alternate layers. Shake the freezer by turning the handle all the time. Every ten minutes open the freezer, and cut down the cream as it congeals around the sides, beating it well each time and also digging 't out from the bottom. ICES, WATER. If made from jams you must rub them through a sieve, adding thick boiled syrup, lemon juice, some jelly, colouring for pink, and the white of an egg whipped up be- fore you add it, to half a pint of spring water. If of jam you must have a good pint of mixture in all to make a quart mould; if from fruits with syrup you will not require water. ' ICING FOR CAKES (1). For a large cake beat and sift 8 ozs. of fine sugar, put it into a mortar with four spoonsful of rose water, and the whites of two eggs beaten and strained; whisk it well, and when the cake is almost cold dip a feather in the icing, and cover the cake well; set it in the oven to harden, but do not let it remain long enough to discolour. Keep the cake in a dry place. ICING FOR CAKES (2). Dissolve some fine white gum arable (finely powdered) in rose water. The proportion should be as much of the gum-arabic powder as will lie on a six- pence to a tea-spoonful of rose water. Beat some white of egg to a stiff froth that will stand alone ; stir in gradually sufficient double- refined powdered loaf sugar to make it very thick (a good proportion is 4 ozs. of sugar to the white of one egg); add to this quantity a tea-spoonful of rose water, with the gum arabic dissolved in it, and beat the whole very hard. Instead of rose water you may dissolve the gum in fresh lemon juice. Previously to icing the c:.k 3 dredge it with flour, and in a few minutes wip3 it off with a clean towel. This, by re- moving the greasiness off the outside, will make the icing stick on the better. Heap the icing first on the middle of the top of the cake, and then with a broad-bladed knife spread it evenly all over the surface. Dip the knife frequently in a bowl of cold water as you proceed, and smooth the icing well. If not thick enough wait till it dries, and then add a second coat.