[ 371 ] PUT PUN PUNCH, SYRUP OF. Make a syrup with Ifimons as directed (see Syrups), and when nearly cold and well flavoured pour on it a bottle of arrack or rum ; stir well to amalgamate the two liquids, and cover the vessel till the whole is quite cold, when it mav be bottled. PUNCH, TRANSiPARENT JELLY OF. Throw into some nearly boiling syrup the rinds of two lemons ; cover, and leave the infusion to cool. In the meantime prepare your souffle in the usual way {see Souffle Fean9ais); put in the infusion of tea, and, at the moment you are to put in the yolks of the eggs, add half a glass of good rum or arrack, then 1 oz. of isinglass, and finish in the usual way. PURGATIVES. See Aperients. PUTRID FEVER, See Typhus Fever. PUTRID SORE THROAT. This disease arises from a peculiar or humid state of the atmosphere, and so becomes generally infectious. It principally attacks children, and those of a weak or lax habit, and is most prevalent in autumn and the beginning of winter. It may also be produced by contagion, as it has been known to run through a whole family when once it has seized one of its members. It often proves fatal, particularly to children. In some instances it is so combined with scarlet fever that it is difficult to determine of which it most partakes. In this respect, however, there is nothing of any material importance, as both diseases require the same treatment. It also not unfrequently attends on measles which are of a malignant nature. The symptoms of attack of putrid sore throat are cold shiverings, anxiety, nausea, and vomit- ing, succeeded by heat, restlessness, thirst, general weakness, and oppression at the chest; the face looks flushed, the eyes are red, and there is a sensible stiffness in the neck, with hurried breathing, hoarseness, and soreness in the throat. It generally arrives at its height about the fifth or sixth day, and, in cases which terminate favourably, it declines in five or six. When the complaint first sets in there is a considerable degree of fever and inflammation of the throat. About the second or third day large patches of a dark red colour appear about the face and neck, which by degrees spread over every part of the body. These, however, disappear in about four days, without any abate- ment of the symptoms. The whole neck some- times swells, and assumes a dark red colour. In the worst of cases the inside of the throat appears quite black and deeply ulcerated, spread- ing to the intestines, and ultimately ending in gangrene. The treatment of putrid sore throat differs from that of the inflammatory by not bleeding either locally or generally, nor in using strong purgative medicine, as a looseness, even arising spontaneously, always does harm, and often proves fatal. The bowels, nevertheless, must be kept open, or rather their contents expelled, by gentle aperients and clysters when nature is defective. If active purgatives are ever neces- sary in this complaint, they can only be so at the commencement and at the termination of those cases where, notwithstanding the healthy appeai'ance in the throat, with an abatement of all the febrile symptoms, still the belly is swollen from a collection of putrid matter that has accumulated in the intestines. At the commencement of putrid sore throat a gentle emetic of from 15 to 80 grains of the powder of ipecacuanha, or 15 grains of it with 1 grain of emetic tartar, has been found ser- viceable, and in some cases will cut short the progress of the disease during the first twenty- four hours. When the symptoms are moderate, and when the ulceration is slight, a gargle made of a pint of sage and rose tea, three spoonsful of vinegar, and one spoonful of honey, has been found as efficacious as any other of the anti- septic gargles containing mineral acids. The following is Dr. Fothergill's gargle :—Barley water, 12 ozs., to which, during the time it boils, add contrayerva root bruised, J oz. Strain the liquor, and mix with it white wine vinegar, 2 ozs.; tincture of myrrh, 1 oz.; honey, 6 drachms. In this disease the putrescent tendency of the whole system should be guarded against by giving the Peruvian bark in substance from the commencement, continuing it throughout the course of the disease as much as the patient's stomach will bear; namely, ^ drachm or 3 scruples every hour. As children are more frequently the subjects of this complaint than grown people, it is often difficult to prevail on them to take a sufficient quantity of this neces- sary and valuable, though rather nauseous me- dicine. In these cases clysters with powdered bark have been used with great success. For this purpose 2 drachms of the fine powder may be thrown up as a clyster, in 5 ozs. or 6 ozs. of barley water, every three or four hours, to very young children, and -J- oz. or 6 drachms to children of eight or ten years old, in three quarters of a pint of barley water. If the first clyster comes away too speedily, 2 or 3 grains of opium may be added to those which follow. Stimulant tonic and astringent gargles, such as the following, are highly serviceable : — Take bruised capsicum seeds, I- drachm ; barley water, 7 ozs.; lioney of roses, 3 drachms ; tinc- ture of m_yrrh, 5 drachms. To be used fre- quently. Or, tincture of capsicum, 2 drachms ; clarified hone3% ^ oz.; tincture of myrrh, 5 drachms ; distilled water, 7 ozs. Or, infusion