[ 142 ] LEM LBM quantity of grated lemon-peel to impart the flavour required. The whole being well mixed, cut some sheets of wafer paper into such figures as your fancy may dictate, and spread the paste over them about a quarter of an inch in thickness; place them on paper, and bake them in a moderate oven. If you wish to glaze your sweetmeats boil some sugar with orange - flower water to plume, and when they are taken out of the oven wash them over with the syrup, which dries almost im- mediately. LEMON SYLLABUBS. Take a pint of cream, a pint of white wine, the peel of two lemons grated, with the juice, and add sugar according to taste; let all this stand some time, melt or whip it, and lay the froth on a sieve ; put the remainder into glasses, and lay on the froth. They should be made the day before they are wanted. LEMON TARTS. Rub six lemons well with salt, put them into water with a little salt in it for two days, and change them every day with fresh water, without salt, for a fort- night. Boil them till they are tender, and cut them into half-quarters, cornerwise, as thin as possible. Take half a dozen pippins, pared, cored, and quartered, and put them into a pint of water; let them boil till they break ; then put the liquor to the lemon, with half the pulp of the pippins well broken, and 1 lb. of sugar. Boil these together for a quarter of an hour, then put it into a pot, and squeeze into it the juice of a lemon: two spoonsful will be suf- ficient to give a proper flavour to your tart. Put fine thin puff paste into your patty pans, which must be small and shallow. Before you put your tarts into the oven take a feather or brush, rub them over with melted butter, and then sift on them some double - refined sugar. _ LEMON WAFERS. Squeeze the juice of six lemons into a basin, pound and sift some double-refined sugar, and mix it with the lemon juice ; put the white of an egg with it, and mix the whole well together with a wooden spoon to make it of a good consistence ; take some sheets of wafer paper, and put one of them on a pewter sheet or tin plate; put on it a spoonful of the preparation, and spread it all over the paper with a knife ; cut it into twelve pieces, and put them across a stick in a hot stove, with that side the paste is on uppermost, and you will find they will curl. When they are half curled take them off very carefully, and put them up endways in a sieve, that they may stand up; let them be in the hot stove one day, and you will find they will be all curled, and then they are done. LEMON WATER. Put two slices of thinly pared lemon into a tea-pot, a little piece of the peel, and a bit of sugar, or a large spoonful of capillaire ; pour in a pint of boiling water, and stop it closely for two hours. LEMON-WATER ICE. To a pint of lemon juice put a pint of water and half a gill of brandy, sweeten with clarified sugar, and freeze it. LEMON WHEY. Pour into boiling milk as much vinegar or lemon juice as will make a small quantity quite clear, dilute with hot water to an agreeably sharp acid, and add a lump or two of loaf sugar. LEMON WINE. Take six large lemons, pare off the rinds, cut them, and squeeze out the juice, in which steep the rinds, adding thereto a quart of brandy, and let the whole stand in an earthen jar closely stopped for thi-ee days; then squeeze six more lemons, and to the juice put two quarts of spring water, with as much sugar as will sweeten the whole ; then boil the water, sugar, and lemons together, and let it stand till cold. After this add a quart of white wine, and the first-mentioned lemons and brandy; mix them together, and strain the whole through a linen bag into the vessel ; let it stand three months, and bottle it off, taking care to wire the corks. Keep the bottles in a cool place or in sand, and in two months more the liquor will be fit for use. LEMONS: To Keep fob Puddings, When you squeeze the fruit throw the outside into water, without the pulp; let them remain in the same a fortnight, adding no more ; boil them in the same till tender; strain it from them, and when they are nearly dry throw them into any jar of candy you may have remaining from old sweetmeats; or, if you have none, boil a small quantity of syrup made of common loaf sugar and water, and pour over them. In a week or ten days boil them gently in it tUl they look clear ; and that they may be covered with it in the jar, you may cut each half of the fruit in two, and they will occupy a smaller space. LEMONS: To Pickle. Take twelve lemons, and rub them well with a piece of flannel; rub them over with bay salt, and lay them on an earthen pan, turning them every day, for three days; then slice 1 oz. of ginger, salt it well, and lay. it in salt for three days. Parboil twelve cloves of garlic, well salted, for three days ; a small handful of mustard seed bruised, some Cayenne pepper, and one clove of garlic should be put to each lemon. Take your lemons out of the salt, squeeze them, put them into a jar with the spice, and cover them with the best white wine vinegar; stop them up closely, and in a month's time they will be fit for use.