MUT MUl [ 238 ] onions (one of them stuck with three cloves), two bay leaves, a little thyme, a bunch of parsley, and scallions into a stewpan; put in the mutton, cover it with bacon, moisten with stock or water, add salt to your taste, and set the stewpan on a brisk fire. As soon as it boils lessen the fire, and let it stew for four hours. When quite done drain the mutton, dish, aud put the carrots, dressed en petites racines, over it. MUTTON PASTY. This eats like venison. Take a fat loin of mutton, and let it hang several days; then bone it, and beat it well with a roll- ing-pin. Rub 10 lbs. of meat with-J lb. of sugar, and pour over it one glass of port and one glass of vinegar; let it lie for five days and five nights, after which wash and wipe the meat very dry, and season it highly with Ja- maica pepper, nutmeg, and salt. Lay it in your dish, and to 10 lbs. put 1 lb. of butter, spreading it over the meat; put a crust round the edge of the dish, and cover with a thick crust, otherwise it will be overdone before the meat is soaked. It must be baked in a slow oven. Put the bones in a pan in the oven, with just sufficient water to cover them, one glass of port, and a small quantity of pepper and salt. By this means you will have a rich gravy to add to the pasty when drawn. Sugar gives a greater shortness to meat, and a better flavour than salt, too great a quantity of which hardens it; and sugar is quite as much of a presei'vative. MUTTON PIE. Take off the meat from part of a loin of mutton, cut it into chops, and season with pepper and salt. Put a layer of chops into a deep dish, and upon them some slices of peeled potatoes, and some thin slices of onion; put the remaining chops over, cover with puff paste, bake it, and add some cullis. The chops may be passed with sweet herbs, &c., aud when cold put into small or large raised crusts, with potatoes and cullis added wlien baked. MUTTON, POLPETTES OF. Take the lean of any joint of cold roasted mutton, pare oft' the skin, and mince the meat with a little grated bacon and calf's udder; season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, a few mushrooms, and parsley shred small; unite them together with the yolks of three eggs, and make twelve or fifteen balls of it; dip them in beaten egg, and bread them twice; flatten these balls a little, and fry them in clarified butter. "When done drain and place them on the dish. Serve them with tomato sauce of demi-glaze. MUTTON PUDDING (1). Cut some slices from a leg of mutton that has been underdone, and put them into a basin that has been lined a nice suet crust; season them well with pepper, salt, and finely shi-ed onion and shallot. MUTTON PUDDING (2) Put a layer of mutton steaks at the bottom of a dish, and season with salt, pepper, and a bit of onion ; then pour a batter of potatoes, boiled aud pressed through a cullender, and mixed with milk and an egg, over them ; then put another layer of steaks aud more batter, and bake it. MUTTON, ROLLED. Bone a shoulder of mutton carefully, so as not to injui-e the skin ; cut all the meat from the skin, mince it small, aud season it highly with pepper, nutmeg, a clove, some parsley, lemon thyme, sweet mar- joi'am chopped, and a pounded onion, all well mixed, together with the well-beaten yolk of an egg. Roll it up very tightly in the skin, tie it round, and bake it in an oven two or three hours, according to the size of the mutton. Make a gravy of the bones and parings ; season with an onion, pepper, and salt; strain and thicken it with flour and butter; add vinegar, mushroom catsup, soy, and lemon pickle, a table-spoonful of each, aud a tea-cupful of port wine. Garnish with forcemeat balls made of gi'ated bread and part of the mince. MUTTON ROLLS EN GRATIN. Cut a neck or leg of mutton into slices about the size of a crown piece; lay them separately on a dish, covered with chopped parsley, shallots, scallions, and mushrooms ; season them with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and pour a sufficient quantity of oil over to cover them. When they have lain in this an hour have some good fowl or veal fai'ce, put a piece about the size of a walnut between each two slices of mutton, tie them together, and braise the whole. When about half done add a glass of white wine. Take the crumb from as many small rolls as you have parcels of mutton, which untie and put into the crusts; take some farce made of poultry, livers, grated bacon, pepper, salt, and yolks of eggs; put a layer of it on a dish for table (one that will bear the fire), place the rolls on it, and set it on the fire to make the gratin. When ready for table pour some cullis over the rolls, and serve them with a clear sauce and lemon juice. MUTTON RUMPS A LA BRAISE. Take six mutton rumps, and boil them for a quarter of an hour; then take them out, cut them in two, and put them in a stewpan, with half a pint of good gravy, a glass of white wine, an onion stuck with cloves, a little Cayenne pepper, and salt. Cover them closely, and stew till they are tender; then take out the rumps and onion thicken the gravy with a little butter rolled in flour, and put in a little roux and the juice of half a lemon ; boil it up till it is smooth, taking care that it is not too thick; put in the rumps, give them a toss or two, and dish them up hot. Garnish with horseradish and beet root.