[ 392 ] RHU RHE for using medicines to extirpate it is when the patient is most free from the disorder. There are several of our own domestic plants ■which may be used with advantage in the rheumatism. One of the best is the white mustard. A table-spoonful of the seed of this plant may be taken twice or thrice a day in a glass of water or small wine. The water trefoil is likewise of great use in this complaint. It may be infused in wine or ale, or druuk in the form of tea. The ground ivy, camomile, and several other bitters are also beneficial, and may be used in the same manner. No benefit, however, is to be expected from these, unless they be taken for a considerable time. Excellent medicines are often despised in this disease because they do not perform an immediate cure, whereas nothing would be more certain than their effect, were they duly persisted in. Want of perse- verance in the use of medicines is one reason ■why chronic diseases are so seldom cured. The internal remedies most generally recom- mended in chronic rheumatism are sudorifics, and medicines of a stimulating nature which abound in essential oils and resins ; and there- fore volatile alkaline salts, guaiacum, turpentine combined with Cinchona bark, and the like, may be given in any of the under-mentioned forms :—Take oil of turpentine, 1^ drachm; yolk of egg, enough to incorporate; then add com- pound spirit of juniper, 1 oz.; decoction of bark, 5 ozs. Make a mixture, of which take two table-spoonsful every four hours. Or, take guaiacum in powder, 6 grains; antimonial powder, 3 grains; syrup of ginger, enough to form a bolus, to be taken three times a day. Cold bathing, especially in salt water, often cures the rheumatism. We would also recom- mend exercise and wearing flannel next the skin. Issues are likewise very proper, espe- cially in chronic cases. If the pain affects the shoulders an issue may be made in the arm; but if it affects the loins it should be put into the leg or thigh. Persons afflicted with the scurvy are very subject to rheumatic complaints. The best medicines in this case are bitters and mild purgatives. These may either be taken separately or together, as the patient inclines. \ An ounce of Peruvian bark and ^ oz. of rhubarb in powder may be infused in a bottle of wine, and one, two, or three wine-glasses of it taken daily, as shall be found necessai-y for keeping the body gently open. In cases where the bark itself proves sufficiently purgative the rhubarb may be omitted. Such as are subject to frequent attacks of the rheumatism ought to make choice of a dry, warm situation, to avoid the night air, wet clothes, and wet feet as much as possible. Their clothing should be warm, and they should wear flannel next their skin, and make frequent use of the flesh-brush. One of the best articles of dress, not only for the prevention of the rheumatism, but for powerful co-operation in its cure, is fleecy hosiery. When there are any suspicions of the disease being connected with a syphilitic taint a long- continued course of mercui'ial alteratives must be entered upon. RHUBARB. It is well known that the drug called rhubarb is the root of some species of Rheum; but with such jealousy is the traffic in this article guarded, and so difficult of access is the region where it is produced, that no accurate information has yet been obtained as to what or how many different species pi'oduce it. All the species possess the same properties in a greater or less degree; but it is generally believed that R. palmatum, undulatum, PJiaponticum, and australe are those from which the commercial supply is obtained. Rhubarb is produced abun- dantly in the elevated lands of Tartary, Chinese Tartary, Thibet, and Bhotan. It is not culti- vated, but springs up spontaneously wherever the seed has been distributed in places favour- able for germination. The root is not considered fit for use till it is six years old, when it is dug up twice a year—in Tartary in spring and autumn, and in China only in winter. When it is taken up the bark is removed, the root cut in pieces, with holes through them, and hung up to dry upon cords about the tents, or on the horns of sheep. There are four varieties of the root known in commerce. Russian rhubarb is brought by the Bucharian merchants to the frontier town of Kiachta, where an apothecary, appointed by the government, is stationed, and who submits it to a rigid inspection. All that does not pass this examina- tion is burned, while the best is sent overland to Moscow and St. Petersburg, and exported by the Baltic to various parts of the world. Turkey rhubarb is collected by the Chinese Tartars, and sold to the Bucharians, who bring it to Bokhara, Samarcand, and other cities of Central Asia, whence, in the ordinary course of commerce, it passes to the Levant and Constantinople. Chinese rhubarb is of an inferior quality, and imported from Canton. Much of this is, in all probability, from the same source as the Russian ; but its inferiority is attributable to the great care observed by the Russian authorities in the selection. Indian rhubarb is produced in the Himalayas. As an ingredient in pies and puddings, the long, thick leaf-stalks are well known. Rhubarb is justly prized as a mild cathartic, and may be safely administered to children, in- valids, and delicate women, in doses of from 10