KI S r ] Ell water. Dissolve 2J lbs. of sugar in three pints of distilled river water over the fire, and when cold mix it with the kirschwasser, filter, and bottle it. KISSEL. Mix one or two pounds of wheat llo ur, with a handful of wheat bran and a little ye ast, with some water. Let it stand in a warm place for a fortnight, when the liquor is to be poured off, and the starch washed in cold water and run through a sieve. Boil this starch, while still moist, with a little cow's milk ; pour it into moulds to become solid, and eat it with cream, or wine and sugar, or mix in any sea- soning in making. There is very little differ- ence between kissel and sowens in the pre- paration, the one being made of wheat flour, and the other of oatmeal. KISSES (1). Put the whites of eight eggs and two spoonsful of orange-flower water into a china basin, and whisk till they become a firm froth ; then add i lb. of sifted sugar, stinring it in with great care by means of a spatula. That done, lay small pieces of this mixture ou white paper; make each drop about the size of a ratafia, rather conical than flat; place the paper which contains them on a piece of wood about an inch thick, and put them in a very hot overi. Watch them, and as soon as you perceive they begin to look yellowish take them out, and detach them from the paper with a knife as cautiously as possible, for they are very tender. Take a small spoon, and with the end of it re- move the moist part which is at the bottom, so as to make them a little hollow, and as you do them lay them on the wood in the oven again for a few minutes to dry. When done lay them in boxes, and keep them in a dry and warm place. If they are for table fill the hollow of each with a little whipped cream or raspberry jam ; put them together by couples, the cream or jam inside ; place them in a dish, and serve them as soon as possible. KISSES (2). Take 1 lb. of the best loaf sugar powdered and sifted, the whites of four eggs, twelve drops of essence of lemon, and a tea- cupful of currant jelly ; beat the whites of four eggs till they stand alone, then beat in gradually the sugar, a tea-spoonful at a time, add the es- sence of lemon, and beat the whole very hard. Lay a wet sheet of paper on the bottom of a square tin pan; drop on it, at equal distances, a small tea-spoonful of stifl" cm-rant jelly ; and with a large spoon pile some of the beaten white of egg and sugar on each lump of jelly, so as to entirely coyer it. Drop ou the mixture as evenly as possible, so as to make the kisses of a round, smooth shape; set them in a cool oven, and as soon as they are coloured they are done; ihen take them out, and place their two bottoms together ; lay them lightly on a sieve, and dry them in a cool oven till the two bottoms stick fast together, so as to form one ball or oval. KITCHEN. For the following very sensible directions we are indebted to " The Magazine of Domestic Economy " and Mrs. Parkes' " Household Duties:"— The kitchen is a most important apartment in every house, and, being chiefly used for the preparation of food, it should be furnished with everything necessary to enable the cook to per- form her duties. It should be as lofty and as well lighted as circumstances will allow. This is a most important point, and should be at- tended to in all houses. In small houses it is especially necessary, as low kitchens are gene- rally dark, and light is essential both to clean- liness and comfort. In most parts of England the kitchen is in the basement story, or on the ground floor; but in the city of London, where the counting-house or shop is on the ground floor, the kitchen is often on the second or third floor, which is attended with the great advantage of preventing any kitchen smells from escaping into the place of business. In Genoa and many other towns in Italy the kitchen is in the upper story of the house, the floor, in these cases being generally laid with tiles. This practice is con- venient for the escape of smells, but very incon- venient in almost every other respect. It would scarcely answer for being introduced into Britain, unless we could be induced to adopt the French mode of cooking, and use only charcoal as fuel. It might, however, do where cooking was per- formed by gas, which it might be, with great economy and cleanliness, wherever there are public gas establishments. Sometimes the kitchen is on the same floor with the dining- room, but detached from the house, and vmder a flat roof covered with lead, or what is termed in London a lead flat. When this is the case the flat should be pugged (stuffed between the roof and the ceiling with some non-conducting sub- stance) and ventilated, so as to keep out the intense heat, which would othenvise penetrate the lead. Where practicable the kitchen should look to the north or the north-east, as should all those domestic ofiices which require to be kept cool. When the kitchen is under ground, as is fre- quently the case in England, particularly in large towns, this is not of so much consequence; but it should always be as near as possible to the dining-room. A kitchen should always be dry. The walls must, therefore, be preserved from damp, if the kitchen is under ground, by building them in cement at least as high as the level of the floor; and, where ground outside is against any of the walls, it may be necessary to build an inner wall, one brick thick, and hollow, against the