[ 225 1 MUS MUL cut thin and fried, add these, and simmer the whole together for half an hour, adding, during the last five minutes, the juice of a lemon. The soup will then be ready, and about the con- sistence of cream. It should be served in a tureen quite hot, and eaten with rice or curry. It is considered an excellent stomachic. When a large quantity of soup is required a propor- tionate quantity of ingredients should be pro- vided, the above being sufficient for a good- sized fowl or meat of that weight. More or less water may be used at the onset, but never added during the preparation of the mulliga- tawny. MULLIGATAWNY SOUP (1). Take a very well-made rich soup of meat or fowl, mix into a little of it the necessary quantity of curry powder to make it quite smooth, return it into the saucepan, and let it boil well, stirring it often. Slice and fry some onions of a nice colour, and put them in, with a clove of garlic and a few pounded almonds, which must be also first mixed with a little of the soup or cream. Add a little lemon pickle, mango ,iuice, or any other acid, according to taste. Meat of any kind may be served in this soup, and diy rice, as with other curries. Vegetable, fish, or game soups make it equally good : game is preferable to any other when the proper seasonings are attended to. As the curry in- gredients destroy much of the mellowness, its goodness therefore depends on the richness of the soup, and this is not generally sufficiently attended to. MULLIGATAWNY SOUP (2). Put i lb. of fresh butter, with six large onions sliced, three cloves of garlic, some chopped parsley, and sweet marjoram, into a stewpan, and let them stew over a slow fire till of a light brown colour. Cut in small pieces 5 lbs. of lean beef, let that stew till the gravy is extracted, then put in three quarts of boiling water and ^ lb. of Scotch barley, and simmer four hours very slowly. Mix four table-spoonsful of curry powder with cold water, and add it to the stock; take out the beef, and rub the barley through a sieve to thicken the soup. Cut a fowl in joints, skin it, put it in a stewpan with a piece of butter, and let it stew till quite tender: the stewpan must be kept closely covered. This should be added to the soup the last thing, with a pint of boiling milk and the juice of two lemons. Boiled rice must also be served with this soup. MUM. See Brunswick Mum. MUMPS. This disease chiefly affects the children of the lower orders. It is generally infectious, and manifestly contagious. It is known by an external movable swelling, arising most commonly on both sides of the neck, but YOL. ir. in some instances confined to one. The swell ing usually continues to increase until the fourth day. From that period it declines, and in a few days more goes off entirely, when the disposition to fever also subsides. As the swell- ing of the throat disappears, it not unfrequently happens that some tumours affect the testicles in the male sex, or the breasts in the female ; but these also, for the most part, go away in a few days. There is seldom, however, much to be appre- hended from this disease, unless the brain or its membranes are affected. It does not often re- quire the assistance of medicine ; and all that is generally requisite is to keep the head and face warm, to guard against taking cold, and to open the bowels with the mildest cooling laxative medicines. But should the tumour in the neck suddenly disappear, and the febrile symptoms increase, its return must be promoted by warm fomentations and stimulating liniments : for in- stance, the strong liniment of ammonia, taking internally one of the following powders every four hours to abate the fever, viz.:—Take of nitrate of potass (nitre), I drachm; tartarised antimony, H grain. Mix them together, and divide them into six powders. Should the testicles be affected, and are much swollen, suppuration must be prevented by all possible means, by bleeding generally and locally, purgatives, cooling discutient applications, and the parts suspended in a bag truss or handker- chief. The same means are to be adopted when the female breast becomes hardened and swelled from a retrocession of a tumour in the neck. MUSCADINE ICES. Put 1 oz. of elder flowers into a teapot, or any vessel having a tight-fitting lid ; pour on them about half a pint of boiling water, then put on the lid, and let them draw for about half an hour. Make a com- position precisely as if it were a lemon ice. To this composition add the infusion of elder flowers, pass the whole through a sieve, and put it in a sarbotiere to congeal. MUSCLE SOUP WITH MUSHROOMS. Prepare meat, vegetable, or fish stock, and season it well without salt, as the juice of the shell fish generally makes it salt enough. Boil the parings and stalks of the mushrooms in it, rub down some of the muscles with mushrooms for a thickening, and rub the thickening through a tarais with a little of the soup. Every quart of soup will require half a pint of oysters, more or less, according to the size and quantity of the mushrooms used. If they are not all buttons of the same size they ought to be cut, and should be cooked white in butter, or slowly in the stock, as they take a long time. All fish soups should be heightened with catsup, anchovies, lemon pickle, soy, &c.