PAI [ 291 ] PAI that we ought, in fairness, to expend upon points of this kind. Inside painting is always done by the tenant. If, therefore, that expense cannot be met at the periods required, the house is too expensive for the occupant, and should be honourably relinquished. If, on the contrary, he mil not perform the lawful repairs, he is acting as dishonestly as the man who robs his neigh- bour. The action assumes another and more specious form, but the principle is the same. The exterior painting of a house is the business of the landlord. On this account a tenant should doubly guard against soil- ing or injuring it unnecessarily. Lawful " wear and tear" are always allowed for, but more care should be taken to protect the property of others than if it were our own. Where there are children it is extremely difficult to keep paint in good order; yet still much injury may be prevented by watchfulness, that would certainly and needlessly take place if no proper check was exerted; and sometimes there is sad indifference shown in these lesser matters, particularly if a lease is drawing to a close Very well-meaning people are often little aware of the selfishness and want of principle that lurks under " carelessnesses " of this kind. If we looked as closely into the source and spring of our words and actions as we do into the handiwork of the cook and housemaid, we might perhaps find quite as much to blame and repair. Landlords are very often put to great expense by careless servants, and often necessarily by good ones : they are, in some cases, so pressed for means that they cannot do what they would. A man may give up the house he rents, but he cannot always part with his freehold; and a landlord stands in a difficult position when he is unable con- veniently to put his house in proper order for inspection ; knowing, at the same time, that no one will take it in its present condition, or be so likely to judge favourably of its real advantages. A little honourable regard for the rights and property of others would be of little account to one party, and of very great moment to the other. Strict conscientiousness will descend to the smallest concerns, as well as rise to the highest; and, although we may neglect many things as too trivial to demand attention, yet, where the interests of others are concerned, we ought to question ourselves closely, and do as we should like to be done by. For the following directions for mixing house paint we are indebted to " The Magazine of Domestic Economy : "— The common oil paint used for domestic purposes is, in reality, a varnish coloured with the requisite opaque powder, according to the taste of the employer; and any coloured material of a metallic, earthy nature may be formed into a paint by grinding it into a fine, stiff paste with drying oil. We shall first say a few words on the kind of varnish and the Colouring powders, and afterwards describe the plan of mixing up ground paint for immediate use. Linseed oil is the usual vehicle of house paint, either in its boiled or raw state, as the ground stiff paint, which it is employed to reduce to the proper state and consistency for use, is of a nature more or less susceptible of becoming dry. In its raw state the oil is thinner, and has less colour, and is, therefore, better adapted for the light-coloured or dead-surface paints, which are generally those containing a large proportion of white-lead ; and its drying properties are aided by the addition of finely powdered sugar of lead, which gives the paint a more glutinising property when exposed to the air. The boiled oil has not only been heated to the boiling point (which is about twice that of water), but has been charged with a quantity of litharge (an oxide of lead), which it has dissolved, and thereby become a real varnish, drying easily alone in the air with a firm pellicle. This oil is well adapted to paints for outdoor purposes, and for those of a dark colour, in which the deep tint of the oil will not be a disadvantage. Paint mixed up with either the raw or boiled linseed oil may be advantageously diluted with spirit of turpentine, which causes it to spread out more evenly and freely, to penetrate the wood more completely, and set with a harder surface. When but little oil is used in a paint, for the sake of the delicacy of the colour, more of the dnjer (as sugar of lead and litharge, when thus used, are called) is added, and sometimes a little colourless varnish, made of white resin and common frankincense, dis- solved in spirit of turpentine and a little linseed oil; and, when much of the oil is used for the light-coloured paints, the yellow tinge is counter- acted by the addition of a small portion of ground Prussian blue. The colouring matters are finely levigated powders of a metallic or earthy nature, ground up, by means of machinery, into a stiff state with drying oil, and afterwards preserved for use under a covering of water. The white paint is either pure white-lead (which is the heaviest, finest, and best), or the same with a large proportion of whiting or fine chalk ground up along with it; the yellow is formed of the various shades of ochre, an earth composed of chalk and oxide of iron; the red is made of Venetian red, also deriving its colour from iron ; the blue is either blue verditer (fi-om copper) or Prussian blue, a chemical preparation of iron, which gives a beautiful and intense colour; the black, from lampblack, and the most difficult of all paints to dry, from the contamination,