18 HAM HAM a quarter of an hour, serve up tlie sauce when it half boils, put the eggs into a dish, squeeze over them the juice of half a Seville orange or lemon, and pour the sauce upon them. HAM, ESSENCE OF. Take 3 lbs. or 4 lbs. of lean ham, cut it into pieces about an inch thick, and lay them in a stewpan with slices of carrots, parsnips, and three or four onions. Let them stew till they stick to the pan, but take care they do not burn; then by degrees pour in some good veal gravy, a few fresh mushrooms cut in pieces (or mushroom powder), truffles, morels, cloves, parsley, leek, basil, and a crust of bread; cover it closely, and simmer till pretty thick ; then strain it off for use. HAM A LA GELPaE. Take a fine-coloured, well-flavoured ham, trim it properly, cutting the large bone in the middle, take off the skin, and pare away a great part of the fat; then soak it in cold water for twelve hours if a young ham, but double that time if an old one, changing the water frequently. That period having expired, wrap it in a napkin, and put it into a braising-pan or a large saucepanful of water, with or without spices and herbs. Let it boil pretty fast at first; then keep it boiling gently for five or si.x; hours; then push in a lardiug- pin, and if it comes out easily the ham is sufficiently done ; let it stand till lukewarm, lay it in a deep dish, and cover it with a board, on which place about 15 lbs. When cold take off the napkin, trim it again carefully, and trace on the fat whatever ornament you may think proper; cover it all over with jelly, put it into the oven, or pass a salamander over it, not within eight or ten inches from it. Dish it, surround it with pieces of jelly, and place a rosette or palm branch of it on the top of the ham. HAM GRAVY. Take a deep saucepan, put into it a piece of fresh butter, several slices of ham, about six pieces of veal the size of a walnut, and two or three carrots cut in small pieces. Set these over a slow fire, and let them stand till they give out their juices, and the ham and veal become crisp and stick; then put in a little stock, and let it boil. In an hour's time add a glass of white wine, and leave it a quarter of an hour, when it will be suffi- ciently done ; take off every particle of fat, strain it into a pan, and set it by for use. HAM, GREEN. Rub your pork well with common salt, and let it lie all night; then make a pickle of brine as follows :—Take 2 lbs. of common salt, 1 lb. of bay salt, '2 ozs. of salt- petre, 1 oz. of sal prunella, and 1 lb. of brown sugar; pound them well, boil them in five pints of water, and when cold put in the ham. Let it lie on the rind side three days; then turn it every day for a fortnight, when it may he taken out and hung up. This pickle is equally good for tongues or raised beef. HAM LOAF. Soak a fine ham in cold water for one or two days according to age; then put it into a saucepan just large enough to hold it, with no more water than will cover it, and a pint of white wine; let it boil, skimming it carefully till done. When cold take out the hock, the under bones, and the skin ; pare away some of the fat, and trim it to an oval form as much as possible. Make a farce with the parings of the fat, some veal or game, and sweet herbs minced and pounded. Take a pan the size you wish to have your loaf, lay all over the inside a pretty firm paste, and then, having cut your ham into thin slices, place alternate layers of it and the farce in the pan until it is quite full; put a crust over the top, which must unite with that in which the ham is ; turn it over on a baking plate, flour it, and put it into a very hot oven for an hour and a half or two hours, according to its size. Serve it cold. HAM IN MARCHPANE. Take Bibs, of marchpane paste, knead it up with 1 lb. of loaf sugar to whiten it (and the longer you work them together the whiter it becomes), and cut it in two parts, one about 5 lbs. weight, and the other about 8 lbs. Put the latter aside; then take cinnamon, cloves, and bole armenia, of each ^ oz., pounded very finely; mi.t them with the largest portion, and add to it a sufficient quantity of red sandal to give it the fine colour of boiled ham. The whole being well mi.'ced, work it up in the form of a ham ; make several incisions in it witli a knife, in which insert very thin pieces of the white paste to represent veins of fat in the lean, and then close these places with your hands. Roll the white paste to about two or three inches thick, and having moistened the surface of your red paste with water, cover it with the white paste in imitation of the fat, taking care to make it thinner towards the knuclde and sides (as in real ham) than at the higher parts; then boil ^ lb. of chocolate in about a quarter of a pint of water, stirring constantly till it is tolerably thick ; dip a hair pencil into it, and do the ham over with it several times until it forms a kind of crust like a rind: this may be covered with crushed macaroons to resemble the rasped bread with which a boiled ham is generally covered. The chocolate must be kept warm whilst the latter operation is being performed, as otherwise it will become quite hard. The flavour is greatly improved by adding vanilla to the chocolate. HAM AU NATUREL. Take a fine large ham, and trim it in the following manner:— Take off the rind and every particle of yellow