MAS [ 10-3 ] MAR VOL. It 0 on it (but not near enough to touch each other), cover them with another laj'er of farce, strew bread crumbs over, and colour them in a Dutch oven. MAEROW TUMBLERS. Set on the fire a pint of cream, three eggs, and some powder sugar; let thera boil for half an hour, stirring constantly; then add some beef marrow shred very small, a few pounded macaroons, a little grated lemon-peel, the yolks of two eggs and the whites of four whisked to a froth, and a few drops of orange-flower water, stirring till all are well mixed; then have ready some small plain moulds about an inch and a half deep, butter them well, put a spoonful of cream in each, and bake them. Serve either plain or with nonpareils. The same preparation may also be served as a tourte, but it must not be covered. When baked strew powder sugar over, and glaze with a salamander. MARSALA. Marsala wine is produced in the neighbourhood of Marsala, the ancient Lily- bffium, in Sicily. It varies widely in quality, but was greatly elevated in character, and brought to a state of steady excellence not many years ago, by some English producers, who erected an extensive establishment in the district, and, in consequence, it speedily came into great repute, and rose rapidly in the scale of our imports. It closely resembles the lighter sorts of Madeira, and is much cheaper; and though the quantity imported into Britain in 1823 was under 80,000 gallons, the quantity rose against 1840 to about 400,000 gallons. Average specimens of it, according to firande, contain 25-9 per cent, of alcohol; but a speci- men of it twenty years old, and submitted during five years to Soemmerring's process, con- tained, according to Prout, only 18'-1 per cent. MARSEILLES. Take li-lb. of double-re- fined sugar, and boil it to fort souffie . add to it 1 oz. of ginger in powder, remove the pan from the fire, and with a roiuid stick (like a plain round rule) stir the sugar, inclining the stick towards the sides of the pan; then with a spoon take the sugar that sticks to the edges, and put it amongst the liquid ; work it up again with the stick, remove the solid sugar as before, and repeat this operation four times, when it will have become tolerably thick and firm ; pour it into paper cases about half an inch thick, and with a fork trace on its surface, whilst warm, lozenges of what size j^ou please. Afterwards, with the point of a knife, mark some of these deeper than the others. When quite cold take thtm out of the papers, and separate them where the lines are deepest. The Marseilles, if preserved in a warm or dry place, will keep good for a long time. MARSEILLES, SPICED. Take 1^ lb. of fine sugar, and boil it to casse; take J lb. of pre- served orange-peel, the same of candied lemon- peel, or, if you like them better, 2ozs. of blanched pistachio nuts; cut them into dice, and put them, with ^ oz. of cloves and the same of cinnamon (both pounded) into the sugar; stir them in gently, continue to boil your syrup to grande jdiane; then beat it up, pour it into cases, and finish as above. MARSEILLES VINEGAR. See Aromatic Vinegar. MARSHALL'S CERATE. Mix thoroughly together in a marble mortar 5 ozs. of palm oil, 1 oz. of calomel, ^ oz. of superacetate of lead, and 2 ozs. of nitrate of mercury. Used to ulcers which are slow in healing. MASDEU WINE. See Rousillon. MASSEPAIN. Take 1 lb. of sweet almonds, and throw them into fresh water; drain and beat them in a marble mortar, wetting them with water, and also a little orange-flower water; take care not to wet them too much in the be- ginning ; put them in by little and little. When completed put them into a pan, with ^ lb. of sifted sugar, upon a furnace with very little fire to dry it. To know when it is dry enough apply the back of the hand over it; if it does not stick it may be taken out and put upon a leaf, dusted with fine sugar, and left to cool. Cut several pieces upon a table, which ought to be rolled out as equally as possible to the size of a little finger; cut and form into rings, and arrange them upon a grill of brass wire, which put upon a basin. This paste may be rolled out and covered slightly with apricot marmalade, or any other, and put on a cover of the same paste; cut it into lozenges or any other form, put it on the grill, and ice it with ice made of whites of eggs and sugar: they must be iced with a spoon. Let them drain, arrange them upon paper, and put them into a quick oven. MASSEPAINS DE FLEUR D'ORANGE. Powder in a mortar 1 lb. of sugar, mix it with the whites of two eggs, and add to it 1 oz. of orange flowers rubbed to powder. With this paste make some small round cakes or large macaroons, and bake them in a gentle oven on a tin. They will keep the whole year. MASSEPAINS PISTACHES. Shell ^Ib. of pistaches, and beat them well in a mortar, wetting them with orange-flower water that they may not oil. When they are beaten very fine put them into a pan, with 4 ozs. of sifted sugar, and dry them over a slow fire : they are dry enough if, in touching them with the finger, they do not run. Strew a leaf with sifted sugar, and lay the paste on it to cool. When cold beat it with a roller upon a table covered with sugar the thickness of a crown piece, that the