G RE L " J GRU your greengages into it, and set them again on a very slow fire to make them throw off their ■water and turn green. During this second opera- tion you must cover your pan with a tin plate, that the steam may not escape, after which take them out and dress them in vour dishes. GREENHOUGHS TINCTURE FOR THE TEETH. Bitter almonds, 1 oz.; Brazil chips, 1 drachm; orris root, 1 drachm ; cochi- neal, i drachm; salt of sorrel, ^ drachm ; alum, ^drachm; spirit of wine, 1 pint; spirit of scurvy grass, 2 drachms. Mix, let them soak for a week, and strain through blotting paper. GREENS : To Boil. After skimming the pot that the bacon has been boiled in put in the cabbage sprouts, and let them boil till the stalks are tender. All greens are best boiled in a net. Spinach cooks in a few minutes. Some persons prefer it when boiled in salt and water. You should have drawn butter or bard eggs to eat with it when done in this way GREGORY'S POWDER. Sometimes called Gregorys mixture. Mix together thoroughly 4 ozs. of magnesia, \ oz. of ginger in powder, and ] oz. of rhubarb in powder. Mild aperient dose, from 1 scruple to ^ drachm. GRIDDLE CAKE. See Indi.^n Cop.k. GRILL SAUCE. Into half a pint of beet gravy put 1 oz. of fresh butter and a table- spoonful of flour, and after having rubbed them well together add a table-spoonful of mushroom or walnut catsup, two tea-spoonsful of lemon juice, a tea-spoonful of made mustard, the same quantity of miuced capers, half a tea-spoonful of black pepper, a quarter of the rind of a lemon pared thinly, a tea-spoonful of the essence of anchovy, and either a little shallot wine or a small piece of minced shallot, with a little chilli vinegar or a few grains of Cayenne. Simmer all these for a few minutes, pour a little of the sauce over the grill, and send the rest up separately. GRINGLE CAKE. Take two cupsful of sugar, one of butter, two eggs, one table-spoonful of wine or brandy, milk and rose water, a tea- spoonful of saleratus, and then add sufficient flour to make it stiff enough to roll. Stamping is an improvement. GRIPES. See Colic. GRISKIN : To Duess. Put it into as much cold water as will cover it, and let it boil; then take it up, and lay it in a Dutch oven, where it will be done in a^few minixtes. You may stuff it with sage and onions. Rub butter and flour over it before it is put down to the fire. A griskin of 7 lbs. or 8 lbs. will take an hour and a half to roast in the common way. GROAT CAUDLE. [See Caudle.) Make a nice gi-uel of groats, with lemon zest and cinnamon ; add a glass of brandy or wine, and sweeten with sugar. A little almond paste may be dissolved in it, or add sliced almonds and citron, or currants. For the patient the less wine or brandy the better; but for visitors put in as much as they like, or the person who makes it will be no good nurse. GROATS or Grits. See Gruel. GROUND IVY {Glechonia hederacea). Ground ivy has a peculiarly strong odour, and is of a bitter and slightly aromatic taste. Its leaves contain an essential oil destitute of smell. This plant was formerly held in great estima- tion, and supposed to possess eminent medicinal virtues, but which are not confirmed by later experience. In obstinate coughs it is still a favourite remedy with the poor, who probably experience its good effects by persevering in its use and abstaining from animal food. The leaves thrown into the vat with ale clarify it and give it a flavour. It was generally used for this purpose till the reign of Henry VIII., about which period hops were substituted. Hence it was called ale-hoof and tun-hoof. Ale thus prepared is often drunk as an antiscorbutic. An infusion of the leaves is commonly taken as tea, and proves slightly tonic, expectorant, and aperient. The expressed juice mixed with a little wine, and applied morning and evening, destroys the white specks upon horses' eyes. GROUSE OR MOORFOWL PUDDING. Having skinned the grouse, cut them up as for carving, and season them slightly with salt and pepper. Have ready a sufficient quantity of paste made in the proportion of 1 lb. of fresh butter to 2lbs. of sifted flour; roll it out thickly, and line a pudding mould with it, which must first be buttered, reserving sufficient paste for the lid ; then put in the pieces of grouse, and place between each layer a layer of small mushrooms, or of fresh oysters cut small. Next pour in a little water (about half a pint), and add a piece of fresh butter lolled in flour; then cover it with the remaining paste, pressing it down very closely round the edge. Dip a strong clean cloth into boiling water, dredge it with flour, and tie it tightly over the mould or pudding basin; put it into a pot of boiling water, and boil it three hours or more according to size. GROUSE, ROASTED. Grouse should have their heads twisted under the wing They must be roasted like fowls, but not be over- done. Serve with a rich gravy in the dish and bread sauce. The sauce for wild fowl may be used instead of common gravy. GRUEL. To make groat gruel properly the proportion should be a table-spoonful of " Embden groats " to a quart of water. It is not necessary to mix the groats with cold water as in the case of oatmeal, but, haying thrown them together, keep stirring until it simmers,