TYP [ 516 ] TYP more agreeable to Ins palate, or more readily obtained. If he be delirious his feet and hands ought to Ije frequently fomented with a strong infusion of camomile flowers. This, or an infusion of the bark, to such as can afford it, cannot fail to have a good effect. Fomentations of this kind not only relieve the head by relaxing the vessels in the extremities, but, as their contents are absorbed and taken into the system, they must assist in preventing the putrescency of the humours. If an emetic be given at the beginning of this fever it will hardly fail to have a good effect; but if the fever has gone on for some days, and the symptoms are violent, vomits ai'e not quite so safe. The body, however, is always to be kept gently open by clysters or mild laxative medicines. Bleeding is seldom necessary in putrid fevers. If there be signs of an inflammation it may sometimes be permitted at the first onset, but the repetition of it generally proves hurtful. Blistering plasters are never to be used unless in the greatest extremities. If the petechia or spots should suddenly disappear, the patient's pulse sink remarkably, and a delirium, with other bad symptoms, come on, blistering may be permitted. In this case the blistering plasters are to be applied to the head, and inside of the legs or thighs ; but, as they are sometimes apt to occasion a gangrene, we would rather recom- mend warm cataplasms or poultices of mustard and vinegar to be applied to the feet, having recourse to blisters only in the utmost extre- mities. It is common in the beginning of this fever to give the emetic tartar in small doses, repeated every second or third hour till it shall either vomit, purge, or throw the patient into a sweat. This practice is very proper, provided it be not pushed so far as to weaken the patient. Much benefit has been derived from the use of the compound spirit of ether. Take compound spirit of ether, 3 drachms; strong camphor mixture, 7 ozs. Make a mixture, and take three table-spoonsful every three hours. In the most dangerous species of this disease, when it is attended with purple, livid, or black spots, the Peruvian bark must be administered. Sometimes, when joined with acids, it proves very successful, even in cases where the petechias had the most threatening aspect; but to answer this purpose it must not only be given in large do«es, but duly persisted in. The best method of administering the bark is certainly in substance. An ounce of it in powder may be mixed with half an English pint of water, and the same quantity of red wine, and sharpened with the elixir or the spirit of vitriol (sulphuric acid), which will both make it sit easier on the stomach, and render it more beneficial. Two or three ounces of the syrup of lemon may be added, and two table-spoonsful of the mixture taken eveiy two hours, or oftener if the stomach is able to bear it. Those who cannot take the bark in substance may infuse it in wine, or in the annexed form:— Take decoction of bark, ]^ oz.; tincture of the same, li drachm ; muriatic acid, 5 minims; syrup of orange-peel, 1 drachm. Malie a draught, to be taken every three or four hours, or oftener. If there be a violent looseness the bark must be boiled in red wine with a little cinnamon, and sharpened with the elixir of vitriol as above. Nothing can be more beneficial in this kind of looseness than plenty of acids, and such things as promote a gentle perspiration. If the patient be troubled with vomiting, 1 drachm of the subcarbonate of potash, dis- solved in 1^ oz. of fresh lemon juice, and made into a draught, with 1 oz. of simple cinnamon water and a bit of sugar, may be given and repeated as often as it is necessarj'. If swellings of the glands appear, their sup- puration is to be promoted by the ap[)lication of poultices, ripening cataplasms, &c. ; and as soon as there is any appearance of matter in them they ought to be laid open, and the poultices contitmed. Large ulcerous sores sometimes break out in various parts of the body in tlie decline of this fever, of a livid gangrenous appearance, and a most putrid cadaverous smell. These gradu- ally heal, and the patient recovers, by a plen- tiful use of Peruvian bark and wine, sharpened with the vitriolic acid. A most material circumstance to be attended to, both at the commencement of this fever and during its whole course, is to cover the patient lightly with bedclothes, and to keep his apart- ment cool and properly ventilated by allowing a regular and free admission of fresh air into it; and, in order to render it pleasant both to himself and attendants, it ought to be sprinkled several times a day with warm vinegar and camphorated spirit. Fumigations will also be advisable. Put 1 lb. of common salt into an ear'then vessel, and pour over it from time to time a small quantity of sulphuric acid till the whole salt is moistened. If the air be foul and peculiarly offensive, apply a gentle heat under the vessel to extricate a larger quantity of vapour ; but, in general, the simple addition of the acid to the salt will be found sufficient, unless the apartment is very large. Cleanli- ;.3ss, in the strictest sense of the word, is to be most cai'efully attended to ; and therefore the bed and body linen should be frequently