SAL r 4L4 ] SAN property of producing thirst. As a medicine, and given in moderate doses, it is tonic and anthelmintic; in larger doses, purgative; and externally, stimulant. In the ordinary mode of using it there can be little doubt of its being useful in the process of digestion; and some- times, when taken more freely, it proves useful in dyspepsia and worms. In large doses it is jaid to check vomiting of blood; and it may be used as a purgative, although it is not often employed as such. Dissolved in a pint of luke- warm water, in the proportion of from i oz. to 1 oz., it forms a common domestic clyster. It is used also, dissolved iu water, as a fomentation to sprains and bruises; and dissolved in a large portion of water it forms the best stimulant general bath, whether used cold, tepid, or in a hot state. , _ . . Its dose as a tonic, &c., is from 10 gral::3^ to J scruple ; as a purge, from ^ 4z^'£QLiBf^'.<i It ehould be largely diluted. v-f- ? - SALT PUDDING. -Take a pint of milk, four dessert-spoonsful of flour, a little suet ghred fine, four eggs, salt, and pounded ginger; mix first the eggs and milk, then add the flour, &c. ; put more flour if necessary to give it consistence, tie your pudding in a buttered cloth, and boil it two hours. lis lo SALT, SPICED. Take 4 drachms of grated nutmeg, the same of cloves, two of white pepper, two of allspice, two of bay leaf, two of basil, and two of thyme: these three latter articles should be dried in an oven. Put them all into a mortar, pound them to an im- palpable powder, and sift it. Take I lb. of fine •white salt, dry it thoroughly in an oven or stove, and pound it as fine as possible; sift and mix with it 1 oz. of the above-mentioned spices, and amalgamate them thoroughly. Keep the spiced salt in a tin box which will shut perfectly close. Use it in the proportion of 4 drachms to 1 lb. of boned veal. SALTING MEAT. In the summer season especially meat is frequently spoiled by the cook forgetting to take out the kemels, one in the udder of a round of beef, in the fat iu tho middle of the round, those about the thick end of the Hank, &c. If these are not taken out all the salt in the world will not keep the meat. The art of salting meat is to rub the salt thoroughly and evenly into every part, and to fill the holes with salt where the kernels were taken out, and where the butcher's skewers were. ■ A round of beef -of about 25 lbs. will take ) ^ lb. of salt, to be rubbed in all at first, and requires to be turned every day and rubbed with the brine : it will be ready for dressing in four or five days if you do not wish it very salt. . .jj biiii j_. ,1) aiiiiyi/tiiUUJi iii In summer the sooner meat is salted after it is killed the better, and care must be taken to defend it from the flies. In winter it will eat the shorter and tenderer if kept a few days, according to the temperature of the weather, until its fibre has become short and tender, as these changes do not take place after it has been acted upon by the salt. In frosty weather take care that the meat is not frozen, and warm the salt in a frying-pan. The exti'emes of heat and cold are equally unfavourable for the process of salting. In the former the meat changes before the salt can affect it; in the latter it is so hardened, and its juices are so congealed, that the salt cannot penetrate it. If you wish it red rub it first with saltpetre, in the proportion of | oz., and tbe like quantity of moist sugar, to 1 lb. of common salt. You may impregnate meat with a very little agreeable vegetable flavour by pounding some sweet herbs and an onion with the salt. You may make it still moi'e relishing by adding a little zest or savoury spice. SALTPETRE. See Nitre. SALVE. See Ointments. SAMLET : To Choose. This is the smallest of the trout kind, and by some it has been taken for the fry of the salmon, whence it has seemed to have taken its name. It has also a great resemblance to the common trout, but differs from both in some respects. It is found iu the northern rivers, as well as those of Wales, and is much esteemed. SAMPHIRE ; To Dry. Take it in bunches as it grows. Set a large deep stewpan full of water on the fire ; as soon as it boils throw in a little salt, and put in the samphire; when it' looks of a fine green remove the pan directly from the fire, take out the samphire with a fork, and lay it on sieves to drain. When cold lay it on earthen plates, and strew sugar well over it; next day turn it on a sieve, and strew it with sugar : keep turning daily until it is dry. Take care the stove is not too hot. SAMPHIRE: To Pickle. Lay some samphire that is green in a pan, sprinkle over it two or three handsful of salt, cover it with spring water, and let it lie for twenty-four hours; then put it into a large brass saucepan, throw in a handful of salt, cover the pan closely and set it on a very slow fire. Let it stand till it is quite green and crisp; take it off, for if it becomes soft it is spoiled; put it into a jar, cover it closely, and when it is cold tie it down. SANDAL WOOD. This is obtained from several species of Santalum. White sandal icood is derived from Santalum album, a tree grow-' ing in India, and in the islands of the Soutb Pacific Oceaa.^ The-woQdis^vei;y.hard^heavy,*Qd'