[ 331 } PIM PIL the begitining of November, whicli may he one reason why they are supposed by some to be the young of that fish. They continue all the winter, and are sometimes substituted for anchovies; but the bones do not dissolve so easily, and the flesh is of a more oily nature. PILES. See Hemorrhoids. PILLAU FOR FOWLS. Truss for boiling a turkey, capon, or fowl, and cover the breast with bacon, which must be tied on ; lay it with the breast downwards in the pot, put in a little strong stock, cover it very closely, and set it to simmer. When it is done, which will be known by pinching its wing, take it up, and keep it warm; pick and rub in a clean napkin just as much rice as the gravy will swell, which is a third by measure of the liquid, and add some allspice, salt, a bit of glaze, and stock if necessary. It should be done in a heat that will not burn the rice, and it ought not to be stirred When dished pour over with a butter- ing-pan a little warm butter, as directed in PiiXATJ, Syrian ; take off the lard, and dish the capon in the middle. This is a most delicate dressing, and excellent for family dinners. PILLAU, INDIAN. Take 2 lbs. of the best end of a neck of mutton, S lbs. of nice young pork, a young fowl, six large onions, spices, and 1 oz. of whole cardamoms in a muslin bag; boil and simmer them all till half cooked, take out the mutton and fowl, brown them, and return them again into the stewpan ; put in, according to the quantity of liquid, rice well picked and ■washed; let all stew together till it is com- pletely swelled, and the whole nearly dry ; turn it into a cullender, take out the meat, and cover it with the rice. Garnish with hard eggs cut in quarters, fried onions, and pickles. PILLAU, SYRIAN. After having cleanea the rice properly, have three times the quantity of boiling water. Some rice takes more or less water, which must be attended to. Wash and strain it. After it has boiled a few minutes set it on one side of the grate, and let it remain until the water is absorbed, during which time the rice is upon no account to be disturbed by stirring or otherwise ; take off the cover, pour over it as much previously pure melted butter as will butter it throughout, and, giving it three stirs round with a spoon, replace the cover. Serve it a few minutes after taking jt out of the saucepan, and on no account stir it, as it is that which makes pillau in this country so like pudding, and so unlike the real Turkish dish. The water is sometimes coloured like saffron. Hard white or saffroned eggs may be stuck into it. PIMENTO, See Pepper, Jamaica. Pimples, worm Pimple with Black Points. This sort is very common, and very annoying to females from the age of fourteen and upwards, as they give the skin a dirty, greasy appearance, which no washing will re- move. They originate in the obstruction of the pores, the moisture in which, not getting a free passage, becomes thick, and closes altogether the mouth of the pore, where this greasy mois- ture catches and combines with the dust and other impurities floating in the air, and is soon rendered black. If, at this stage of the forma- tion of the pimple, you squeeze it on both sides between the nails, the thickened matter con- tained in the little tube will escape in the form of a small white lump, with a black head, which is nothing more than dust, &c., caught and re- tained by the part of the matter which had been exposed. The vulgar opinion, therefore, that such pimples are caused by worms or grubs, is -luite erroneous. Those who are subject to this Jorm or the disorder have, generally, from three or four to the number of some dozens of such Uule black points on the sides of their nose, on the upper lip, the chin, the forehead, and sometimes on the cheeks and temples. The skin between these is also, for the most part, though not always, greasy and foul. The best means of removing the worm pim- ples is by squeezing out all the thickened matter of each; for unless you do this it is impossible to get rid of them, as no wash nor other application will remove them, nor will they ever disappear of their own accord. But though no wash will remove them when once formed, several things of this kind may be useful in preventing their return. Of these the Roman balsam is a safe and excellent applica- tion, and daily rubbing the parts very gently with a soft glove or with the warm hand. If these are not effectual the means recommended for the next variety may be tried. The greasy disposition of the skin, and its tendency to form the black-headed worm pim- ples, for the most part depend on bilious disorders, or on indigestion, acidity, or some derangement of the stomach. Purgatives, sul- phur, and the whole tribe of worm drugs so often given to remove these pimples, in all cases increase them. Small Red Pimple. The cause is much the ' same with what we have just described in the case of the worm pimple, but operating a little more actively, or rather, proceeding a stage farther. The little tubes in the present case are not only obstructed, but become inflamed, swell, and form a small, hard, I'ed pimple, painful to the touch, and sometimes a little itchy, or giving a slight feeling as if an insect