[ 68 ] IND IND add a tea-spoonful of cinnamon or ginger, and stir in If lb. of wliite Indian meal and I lb. of wheat flour: the meal should be sifted. Bake in small cups, and let the cakes remain in them till cold. INDIAN MEAL MUFFINS. Scald a quart of Indian meal with enough boiling water to make a thick batter ; let it cool, and when luke- warm add a small tea-cupful of butter, a table- spoouful of yeast, a tea-spoonful of salt, and two eggs well beaten ; put it in a warm place for two hours, and then bake it in mufSn rings on a hot griddle. When one side is well browned turn them. INDIAN PICiaE(l). Take lib, of ginger, put it into a pan with salt and water, and let it remain all night; then scrape it, and cut it into thin slices ; put them into a pan with i lb. of bay salt, in which let them lie till all the following ingredients are prepared :—Take 1 lb. of garlic peeled, and lay in salt for three days; then take it out and wash it; let it lie in salt for three more days, take it out, and set it in the sun for another day till half dry. Take also 1 oz. of long pepper, 1 oz. of capsicums salted and laid in the sun for three days, a pint of black mustard seed bruised, and ^ oz. of turmeric beaten very small. Put all these ingredients together in a jar, adding as much vinegar as, when the cabbage, or whatever you intend to piclde, is put into it, the vinegar will rise to the top of the jar; then take cabbage, cauliflower, or whatever you choose to pickle, and cut it into small pieces ; throw a good handful of salt over them, and set them in the sun when it is very hot for three days; drain the water from them every day, and fresh salt them again, turning the leaves till they are dry; then put them into the pickle, being particular that they are completely covered with the vinegar; tie the jar up closely, let it stand a fortnight, fill it again with more vinegar, and carefully watch it from time to time to fill it up with vinegar, as it will waste verv fast. iNDIAN PICKLE (2). One gallon or vinegar, 1 lb. of garlic, J lb. of long pepper split, i lb. of flour of mustard, 1 lb. of ginger scraped and split, and 2 ozs. of turmeric. When you have prepared the spice, and put it into the jar, pour the vinegar boiling hot over it, and stir it every day for a week; then put in your cabbages, cauliflowers, or whatever you intend to pickle. INDIAN RUBBER. See Caodtchouc. INDIGESTION. {See Appetite and Dys- pepsia). In addition to what has been said under the two titles above referred to, we are indebted for the following to Dr. Wilson Philip, who understood this very common de- fect of the stomach better than most medical practitioners. The first object in the cure of all diseases is to remove the remote causes as far as they still continue ta operate. Among those of indigestion whatever occasions morbid disten- tion of the stomach, or irritates its surface, holds a chief place. It unfortunately happens that thei'e is a continual tendency in this disease to produce those causes. However well, therefore, we may succeed in removing them, it requires constant attention to prevent their recurrence. To some of the other causes of this disease these observations apply with almost equal force, particularly to that inactivity of body, and irritable, anxious, and desponding state of mind which so frequently cause and are caused by indigestion. Diet and exercise. The first part oi the treatment, therefore, which falls under our attention relates to diet and exercise, both of mind and body; and in the slighter and more recent cases a strict attention to these alone, or at most with the assistance of an occasional mild aperient, will often be found sufficient to effect a cure, and the neglect of them will in all cases tend to counteract whatever other means we employ. The objects to be kept in view in regulating the diet in this disease, as appears from what has just been said, are that it shall tend as little as possible to produce either morbid dis- tention or morbid irritation of the surface of the stomach. If the patient eats with great rapidity lie will, during the time required for this combi- nation, put such a quantity of food in the stomach as to occasion some degree of morbid distention, which will be greatly increased by the swelling of the food, in consequence of the secretion of gastric fluid being disturbed by the distention, and the stomach, for reasons above explained, not propelling its contents vnth the usual facility into the intestines Thus it is that the feeling of distention often increases for some time after too full a meal, and at length is frequently accompanied with actual pain. Mastication of food. The food, when we eat too fast, is not only received into the stomach in too great a quantity, but is swal- lowed without being duly masticated and mixed with saliva, and therefore without properly undergoing what may be considered the first process of digestion. It is thus presented to the stomach in a state in which the gastric fluid pervades, and consequently acts upon it with more difficulty. In this way eating too fast is injurious even when the patient abstains from taking too much. For these reasons to eat moderately and slowly is often found of greater consequence than any other rule of diet. The dyspeptic