[ 174 ] MAC MAC witb bread crumbs, and replace the disli to finish the baking. Serve with wine sauce. MACKEREL, COLLARED. Clean the fish, slit them down the belly, cut off the heads, take out the bones, and lay each on its back. Prepare a seasoning of mace, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and a handful of shred parsley; strew this mixture over the fish, roll them tightly, and tie them in separate cloths; let them boil gently twenty minutes in vinegar, salt, and water; then take them out, put them into a pan, and pour the sauce over them, or the cloth will stick to the fish. The next day remove the wrappers, add some vinegar to the pickle, and when you send the mackerel to table garnish with fennel and parsley, and put some of the liquor in the dish. MACKEREL EN COMPOTE. Prepare the mackerel, cut off the tails, and put them into a small saucepan well buttered, with any common fish you may have, and anchovy and white wine; braise them in this, and when done servo them with their own liquor. MACKEREL, ENTREE OF. Split the mackerel down the back, season with pepper and salt, and lay a sprig of fennel in them. Broil them gently, and when ready to serve take out the fennel, and put in its place a mixture made with fresh butter, chopped parsley, green onions, pepper, and salt. Add plenty of lemon juice. MACKEREL, FILLETS OF (Saote). Cut the fillets the whole length of the fish, take off the skin, trim and put them into a tossing-pan, with salt, pepper, parsley, and scallions shred small; pour a little melted butter over, and set them on the fire, moving the pieces about lest they should adhere to the pan; turn them very carefully, and do the other side. Take a good bit of butter, a ladleful of veloute, the yolks of three eggs, the juice of two lemons, salt, whole pepper, and a ravigotte chopped small; stir over the fire, but without boiling, till of the right consist- ence, and then pour it over the fillets. MACKEREL A LA FLAMANDE. Choose three good-sized and very fresh mackerel, take out the entrails through the gills, and tie up the head ; cut off the end of the tail, but do not open the back. Work up some shallots, parsley, and scallions, chopped very small, with a piece of butter ; add salt, pepper, and lemon juice ; stuff the body of the fish, and roll each in a sheet of buttered paper; tie the ends tightly, rub the paper with oil, and broil them for three quarters of an hour over a very clear fire. When done take them out of the paper, dish, and pour over them the butter contained in the cas6s, and lemon juice. MACKEREL EN FRICANDEAU. Take the skin from ono side of the mackerel, lard and put the fish into a braising-pan, with a few slices of veal, ham, and equal quantities of broth and white wine. Let the veal be nearly done when you put in the mackerel. Set the pan on a slow fire, and in a few minutes add some mushrooms and a bunch of sweet herbs. When the fish are sufficiently done take them out; strain and reduce the sauce to a glaze, with which do the larded side; put a little butter to the remainder, and serve it under the fish. MACKEREL, FRIED. Cut the mackerel each into eight pieces, whicli soak for half an hour in lemon juice, pepper, and salt; wipe them perfectly dry, dip each piece in wine batter, and fry them dry. Serve with fried parsley. MACKEREL (German Wat). Split them down the back, and season them with pepper and salt; broil them, and serve with the fol- lowing sauce:—Pick and wash some fennel, parsley, mint, thyme, and green onions, but use only a small quantity of each; boil them till tender in a little veal stock, then chop them up, and add to them some fresh butter, the liquor they were boiled in, some grated nutmeg, the juice of half a lemon, a little Cayenne pepper, and salt. Let it boil, thicken it with flour, and serve in a sauce-boat. MACKEREL, GLAZED. Clean and dry the fish as usual, lard them with streaked bacon, and put them into a saucepan, with two slices of veal and sweet herbs; pour over them some court bouillon, and stew them. When done take them out, reduce the liquor, and glaze your fish with it. MACKEREL, GRILLED. Clean, empty, and wipe the fish as usual; split them up the back, and rub them with a little butter; mix some bread crumbs and shred parsley, cover the mackerel with this, and broil them. When ol a nice colour serve them with the following sauce:—fut some shred parsley, a small quantity of oil, salt, pepper, and lemon juice into melted butter, stir them up together, and make the sauce quite hot. MACKEREL AU MAITRE D'HOTEL. Three mackerel are quite sufficient for this dish. Take out the entrails, and having wiped the fish with a wet cloth, split them open along the back from head to tail; lay them in a deep dish, with salt, whole pepper, scallions, and parsley, and pour a sufficient quantity of oil on them to soak them ■well. Half an hour before dinner place them on a gridiron over a gentle fire, and broil them on both sides ; put a piece of butter into a sauce- pan, with a dessert-spoonful of flour, parsley and scallions shred small, pepper, and salt; mix them well, and then add a glass of water and the juice of a lemon; set this over the fire.