[ 333 ] RAT RA V grains of musk. Oil of rhodium is also sup- posed to be very attractive to these vermiu. Asafoetida with these oils is also used. 2. Mix a quart of the best oatmeal, 2 ozs. of powdered loaf sugar, 6 drops each of the oils of rhodium, caraway, and aniseed, and J grain of musk. Mix them very perfectly without touch- ing the mixture with the hands. Place in a retired situation six or eight pieces of clean boa)'d, and on each two table-spoonsful of the powder, for a few successive nights, without disturbing the rats. About the sixth night, if tliey are found to eat freely, mix a tea-spoonful of white arsenic with the powder. What remains in the morning should be burnt, avoiding the fumes. 3. White arsenic, 2 ozs. ; carbonate of barytes, 2 ozs.; white sugar, 3J ozs.; rose pink, ^ oz.; oil of aniseed and oil of rhodium, of each 5 drops. 4. Malt flour, 1 lb.; oil of rhodium, 3 drops ; sugar, 2 ozs.; eight cloves ; a table-spoonful of caraway seeds, all beaten in a mortar. Lay it in small parcels where they frequent, for three or four nights, till they eat it freely, then add some arsenic dissolved in spirit of salts. — [Mayer.) 5. Ointment for Rats in Ricks. Mix together 1 lb. of fresh butter free from salt, 1^ oz. of calomel, 8 ozs. of crumb of white bread, 2 ozs. of sugar, 5 drops each of oil of nutmeg and rhodium, and 2 drops of oil of aniseed. To use it make a hole with the arm under the ridge; into this hole insert a stick, and on the middle of it, where it does not touch the rick, put a lump of the ointment. 6. Fob Teaps. Put the same, with 2 or 3 drops of oil of thyme. 7. Hampshire Miller's Rat Powder. Mix 1 oz. of nux vomica in powder with 1 lb. of fresh oatmeal, and add a few drops of oil of rhodium, or what answers better, oil of aniseed, with musk. 8. Philanthrope Muophobon, a French pre- paration so called, consists of one part of emetic tartar to four of farinaceous and other ingre- dients. 9. Put into a flask 2 drachms of phosphorus and 5 or 6 ozs. of water; put the flask in warm water (about 150° Fahrenheit) till the phosphorus is liquefied, pour the contents into a mortar, and immediately add 5 or 6 ozs. of rye meal. When cool add the same quantity of melted fresh butter and 4 ozs. of sugar. 10. Another form of the phosphorous com- pound is—melt 1 lb. of lard in a bottle plunged in water, and heated to J 50° Fahrenheit. In- troduce into it i oz. of phosphorus, and add a pint of proof spirit. Cork the bottle securely after its contents have been heated to 140°, and, taking it out of the water-bath, agitate it briskly till the phosphorus is uniformly diffused ; repeat the agitation occasionally as it cools, and when cold pour off the spirit which has separated (wliich may be reserved for the same purpose), and incorporate with the fatty compound whe;it flour and sugar. Place little lumps of this in the rat-holes, and set some water near for them to drink. 11. Valencia almonds, 1 oz. ; treacle, 2 ozs.: carbonate of barytes, 1 oz.; oil of aniseed, 5 drops ; flour, enough to form a paste. RATAFIA CREAM. Boil three or four laurel, peach, or nectarine leaves in a pint of cream ; then strain it, and when cold add the yolks of three eggs beaten and strained, with sugar and a large spoonful of brandy stirred into it; scald the whole till thick, and stir all the time. Or, mix half a gill of ratafia, as much mountain wine, the juice of two or three lemons, a pint of cream, and as much sugar as will make it pleasant. Beat it with a whisk, and put it into glasses. RATAFIA OF FOUR FRUITS. Take 10 lbs. of very ripe cherries, 2^^ lbs. of rasp- berries, 54lbs. of red, and 2 lbs. of black cur- rants ; pick and mix these fruits together, press the juice from them, measure it, and for every quart of juice take i lb. of sugar and an equal quantity of brandy; dissolve the sugar in the juice, then put in the brandy, 1 drachm of mace, and 2 drachms of cloves ; let the whole stand some time, filter, and bottle it. Keep the bottles well corked. RATAFIA OF SEEDS. Take 3 drachms of each of the following seeds—anise, cumin, fennel, dill, coriander, caraway, and angelica; bruise and infuse them for a month in a gallon of brandy; dissolve 2 lbs. of sugar in a pint of water, and add this syrup at the end of the, above-mentioned time to the infusion ; then filter and bottle it. RATAFIA WITHOUT SUGAR OR SYRUP. Press the juice from some cherries into a pan, and leave it a quarter of an hour; then put it into a lai'ge bottle, with the kernefs, and also some apricot kernels. To this add, if you wish the ratafia a deep colour, the juice of 2 lbs. or 3 lbs. of black cherries; put to your juice half or a third of its quantity of the best brandy; then bottle it, and when the fermentation has ceased cork the bottles. If the air is excluded this ratafia will keep for many years. RAVIGOTE. Shred small a little chervil, chives, pimpernel, and tarragon: this latter ought to predominate. The mixture of these articles constitutes the ravigote. Take some veloute, two dessert-spoonsful of vinegar, and a little whole pepper ; make them quite hot, add a bit of. butter and the ravigote, stir till the butter is quite dissolved, and serve.