[ 370 ] PUN PUM quart of milk add four eggs beaten up, some powdered cinnamon (about a table-spoonful), sugar, a little ginger, a little grated lemon-peel, and half a tea-spoonful of the juice if liked. The pumpkin and all these ingredients, well beaten up together and thrown into a pie dish, with a thin under-crust nicely baked brown, and sen-ed up hot, will be found an excellent dish, and is much liked by the North Americans. Bake in a warm oven about an hour. Some persons make a pumpkin pie by mix- ing it with apples, and baking it with an over- crust. Another pie is made by taking out the seeds, and grating the pumpkin till you come to the outside of the sldn. Sweeten the pulp, add a little lemon and any spice to suit the taste, and bake it without an upper-crust. PUMPKIN SOUP (1). We can recommend this as one of the best and cheapest of household soups. Into two quarts of cold water put 3 lbs. of pumpkin, or gourd, cut into thin slices, peeled, and with all the seeds removed; two large onions, also peeled and sliced, with a small stick of celery cut into very small pieces. Boil these together slowly for two hours and a half, and then, after adding 1 oz. of dripping, two large table-spoonsful of flour, and of pepper and salt as much as pleases the taste, boil for half an hour longer: stir frequently during the whole of the boiling. The pumpkins saved for seed are better for this purpose than those which are less ripe and more watery. PUMPKIN SOUP (2). This should be made with full-grown pumpkins, three or four, according to the sizes. Slice them, and put them into a stewpan, with two or three onions, a bit of butter, and a little good broth; set them over a slow fire till they are tender, but do not allow thera to burn ; then add a tea-cup- ful of crust of bread broken small, and two quarts of good consomme or rich gravy. Season with salt and Cayenne pepper, pass it through a cullender, and boil it for ten minutes. Serve it up with fried bread. PUMPS, FROZEN. To thaw these put a bung into the nozzle of the pump, and two or three handsful of salt into the barrel. If put in overnight take out the bung, and pump out the salt and water, after which the pump may be used in ordinary. Repeat this when needed. See Freezing of Pipes and Vessels. PUNCH (1). This is a delicious beverage drunk either hot or cold. It is composed of a mixture of lemon juice and peel, sugar, rum, brandy, and water, in such proportions that the liquor may be flavoured with all the ingredients, but that none may predominate. By the introduction of other articles, such as arrack, champagne, &c., to the above, it is called champagne punch, arrack punch, &c. The best method of proceeding is as follows:—Pare your lemons very thin, and soak the peels in spirits ; dissolve the sugar in lemon juice, then put in the spirits in the proportion of two glasses of rum to one of brandy, some strong green tea, and water at discretion. PUNCH (2). Take two ripe and fresh lemons with rough rinds, rub them with some lumps of double-refined sugar till the yellow of the fruit is wholly absorbed ; put the sugar into a bowl, with as much more of the juice of lemons as may be required; squeeze the juice upon the sugar and press the whole well to- gether ; then mix this "with boiling soft water till the -whole is rather cool. When this sherbet is agreeable to your palate take rum and brandy in equal quantities, and put them to it, mixing the whole thoroughly. Two good lemons are enough for four quarts of jDunch, including a quart of liquor and ^ lb. of sugar. This sherbet may be strained before the liquor is put in, as the pulp is not alike pleasant to all palates. If rum only is used half a pint of porter may be added with good efl'ect. PUNCH, MILK. Pare six oranges and as many lemons as tliin as possible, and grate them with sugar to get out the flavour; steep the peels in a quart of brandy or rum, and stop closely twenty-four hours ; squeeze the fruit on 2 lbs. of sugar; add to it four quarts of water, and one of new milk boiling hot; stir the liquor into it, and run it through a jelly bag till clear. Bottle and cork it for use. PUNCH, NORFOLK. To twenty quarts of brandy put the peels of thirty lemons, and as many oranges pared extremely thin. Infuse twelve hours ; then take thirty quarts of water that has been boiled, but become cold, and put to it 15 lbs. of double-refined sugar. When well mixed pour it on the brandy and peels, adding the juice of the oranges, and that of twenty-four lemons. Incorporate all these mixtures thoroughly, and then strain the whole through a hair sieve into a clean barrel that has held spirits, and put to it two quarts of new milk; stir it, and bung it closely, let it stand six weeks in a warm cellar, and then bottle the liquor for use, observing great care that the bottles are clean and dry, and the corks good. This beverage will keep for years. Or, pare six lemons or three Seville oranges thin, squeeze the juice into a jug, put to it two quarts of brandy, one of white wine, one of milk, and 1J lb. of sugar. Mix the whole well, and then cover for twenty-four hours. Strain through a jelly bag till it is clear, and bottle it.