[ 399 ] EIO RIC the centre of the top, aud then with a broad- , bladed knife, dipped occasionally into a bowl of cold water, spread it evenly all over the surface of the cake. Instead of lemons you may use, for flavouring this cake, the yellow rind of two oranges grated on the sugar, and the juice of three mixed with the spice. Orange rind, being stronger and more powerful in taste than that of lemon, a smaller quantity of it will suffice. You may bake the above mixture in little tins like queen cakes, taking care to grease them with fresh butter. This mixture will make a nice pudding, using only i lb. of rice flour, but the above quantities of all the other ingredients. Bake it in china or hand- some white ware, as it must go to table in the dish it is baked in. RICE PUDDING, BOILED. Take 6 ozs. of whole rice, and when sufficiently boiled stir in a table-spoonful and a half of suet shred finely. When that is melted take it up, and add one egg and 2 ozs. of moist sugar. Boil these together three quarters of an hour. RICE PUDDING WITH CURRANTS. Tie 5 ozs. of whole rice in a cloth, leaving it room to swell; boil it half an hour, then take it up, and add three spoonsful of suet shred finely, 5 ozs. of cuiTants, and two eggs well beaten; tie it up again, and boil it an hour and a half. RICE PUDDING, DUTCH. Soak 4ozs. of rice for half an hour in warm water ; then drain the water from it, put it into a stewpan, with half a pint of milk and half a stick of cin- namon, and let it simmer \mtil tender. When cold add four whole eggs well beaten, 3 ozs. of sugar, a quarter of a nutmeg, a good-sized piece of lemon-peel, and 2 ozs. of butter melted in cream. Line a dish or mould with light puff paste, put in the above, and bake in a quick oven. RICE PUDDING WITH FRUIT. Swell the rice in a little milk over a fire ; then mix with it either cuiTants or gooseberries scalded, or apples pared and quartered, raisins, or black currants : add an egg to the rice to bind it. Boil it well, and serve it with sugar. RICE PUDDINGS, SMALL. Simmer two spoonsful of rice in half a pint of milk until it is thick; then add to it a bit of butter the size of an egg, and about half a pint of thick cream, and give it one boil. When cold mix the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two (well beaten), sugar and nutmeg according to taste, and add grated lemon and a little cinna- mon. Butter some little cups, lay some orange or citron at the bottom, and fill them about three parts full with the above. Bake three quarters of an hour in a slow oven. Serve the moment before they are to be eaten, with sweet sauce in a boat. RICE, SAVOURY. Carefully wash and pick some rice, set it to stew very gently in a little veal or rich mutton broth, and add an onion, a blade of mace, pepper, and salt. When it is swelled it should not boil to mash. Put it to dry on the shallow end of a sieve before the fire. You may serve it dry, or put it in the middle of a dish, and pour the gravy round, having first heated it. RICE SNOWBALLS. Wash and pick i lb. of very clean rice; put it on the fire in a saucepan with plenty of water, let it boil ten minutes, drain it on a sieve till quite dry, and then pare six apples—weight, 2i ozs. each. Divide the rice into six parcels in separate cloths ; put one apple in each, tie it loosely, and boil it one hour. Serve it with the sugar and butter, or wine sauce. RICE SOUP. Wash your rice well in warm water, changing it frequently; then put the rice into a saucepan with some good stock, set it on the fire, and leave it to swell half an hour, but do not let it boil. When the rice has imbibed all the stock add a sufficient quantity to cover it; cover and boil it slowly for two hours. In the meantime broil three slices of beef, and pepper and salt them well. When of a nice dark colour throw them into the rice soup, to which they will impart a rich flavour and a fine colour. RICE SPONGE CAKE. Put twelve eggs into a scale, and balance them in the other scale with their weight in broken lump sugar. Take out four of the eggs, remove the sugar, and balance the eight eggs with an equal quantity of rice flour. Rub off on some lumps of the sugar the yellow rind of three ripe large lemons, and then powder all the sugar. Break the eggs one at a time into a saucer, put all the whites into a pitcher, and all the yolks into an earthen shallow pan, beat them so stiff that they will stand alone; then add the powdered sugar gradually to the white of egg, and beat it in well. In the other pan beat the yolks till very smooth and thick; then mix them gradually, a little at a time, with the white of egg and sugar. Lastly, stir in by degrees the rice flour, adding it lightly, and stirring it slowly and gently round till the surface is covered with bubbles. Transfer it directly into a buttered tin pan, set it immediately into a brisk oven, and bake it an hour and a half, or more, according to its thickness. Ice it when cool, flavouring the icing with lemon or rose. This cake will be best the day it is baked. In every sort of sponge cake, Naples biscuits, lady's fingers, and all cakes made without but- ter, it is important to know that the eggs and sugar are to be beaten very hard; the flour, which must always go in at the last, should be stirred