[ 100 ] KIC KID key basket, which has several advantages. The inside is furnished with divisions, and brass hooks to receive the various keys. There is a handle on the top for carrying it with ease from room to room, and a patent lock by which all the keys are secured, in case the mistress of a house is so unfortunate as not to have servants in whose honesty she can confide. KICKSHAW. Make puff paste, roll it thinly, and if you have any moulds work it on them, and make them up with preserved pippins. You may fill some with gooseberries, and others with raspberries, or what you please ; then close them up, and either bake or fry them. Throw grated sugar over them, and serve them up. KID is good eating when it is but three or four months old. Its flesh is then delicate and tender; but it is not used after it has done sucking. To be good it ought to be fat and white. It is dressed in the same manner as lamb or fawn. KID : To Roast. Take the head of a kid, prick it backwards over the shoulders, and tie it down ; lard it with bacon, and draw it with lemon-peel and thyme; then make a farce of grated bread, flour, some forcemeat minced small, beef suet, and sweet herbs; season with salt, ginger, cloves, mace, and nut- meg, and add some cream and the yolks of four eggs. Put this farce into the caul of the kid, and put it into the inside ; sew it up closely, roast it, and serve with venison sauce. KID GLOVES. See Gloves. KIDNEY BEAN SOUP. Take a handful of sorrel, chei'vil, and a lettuce; wash and drain them in a sieve, chop them very finely, and put them into a saucepan. Boil a quarter of a peck of white kidney beans, and with the broth moisten the herbs; rub one half of the beans through a sieve, and mix with the soup. When this has boiled a few minutes add the yolks of four eggs and ^Ib. of fresh butter; season to the taste, and pour it on bread cut small, and the other half of the beans. KIDNEY BEANS: To Boil. First care- fully string them, then slit them down the middle, and cut them across ; put them into salt and water, and when the water in your pan boils put them in, with a handful of salt. They will soon be done, which may be known by their feeling tender. Drain them through a sieve or cullender, and serve them up with melted butter in a boat. Vinegar is an agreeable addition, KIDNEY BEANS: To Pickle. Pour over them boiling brine, and cover them closely. The next day drain and dry them, pour over them a boiling pickle of good vinegar, Jamaica and black pepper, and a little mace and ginger. Conlinue boiling the vinegar every day till lh& beans look green. KIDNEY BEANS : To Preserve. Prepare the beans, which ought to be young and tender, by taking off the two ends, throwing aside all that are hard or blemished, and put them into fresh water. Have water with a handful of salt boiling on a quick fire, put them in, give them two boils, and turn them into cold water; drain well, and arrange them in proper lessived jars ; fill them up with strong pickle, cover them with good oil, stop them with corks, tie paper and parchment over, and put them in a cool, dry place. Serve them as new beans ; freshen, blanch, and cook them in a brass pan. KIDNEY BEANS : To Stew. Boil the beans, drain them in a sieve, and put them in a pan, with a little cream, flair, butter, pepper, and salt; let them stew gently about ten minutes, and then serve them up. KIDNEY BEANS, DRIED : To Cook. Soak the pulse for a night, and then put them in cold water to boil, with the addition of salt; let them boil gently, and if old—the older the better, so that they are sound—they vail require a considerable time to soften. Their bursting will be expedited by throwing in a cup- ful of cold water when they begin to swell, and when they burst they are done. They should be then drained dry, and placed aside for use. See Haricots. KIDNEY BEANS A LA LYONNAISE. Cut one or two onions in half rings, and put them into a frying-pan with oil. When they begin to brown put in some beans which have been cooked ; let them fry with the onions; put in hashed parsley, scallions, salt, and pepper; give a turn or two more, and dish; boil a little vinegar in a pan, and pour it over them. KIDNEY BEANS IN SALAD. Take beans already cooked, put them in a salad dish, and garnish them with strips of anchovy, an onion roasted in the ashes, beet-root, or anything properly hashed ; season Avith salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar, and serve. KIDNEY, BEEF (with Mustard Sauce). Fry sliced onion in butter to half, cut the kidney into small pieces, and put them to the onion in a stewpan, with pepper and salt, and stew them on a slow fire. The kidney will furnish liquor enough. Add the mustard when ready. Beef kidneys make a very good gravy. KIDNEY, BEEF, PIE. Cut some kidneys into thin slices, and place them in the bottom of your pie dish ; then sweet herbs chopped, such as parsley, thyme, shallots, mushrooms, pepper, and salt. Continue this till the dish is full, cover the whole with slices of bacon, finish your pie, and bake it in the oven. When done take out the bacon and skim off the fat;