rAii [ 481 ] TAR TARRAGON is a herb well worth cultivating. It grows from a slip or root, and is easily raised. The leaves are fit to gather in July and August. They impart a fine and peculiar flavour to sauces, soups, and salads, and are indispensable in making French mustard. Tarragon may be kept a year or more by drying it in bunches; also by filling a bottle lialf with tarragon leaves, and half with good vinegar. TARRAGON CREAM. Boil some tarragon in half a pint of cream and half a pint of milk as long as it is necessary to flavour it; then strain the cream, and if it be served hot add the yolks of five eggs and some flour. When well mixed pour the preparation into a dish, and place it in the bain-marie to set. If it is to be served cold, when the cream is strained, and no more than lukewarm, put in a little rennet; strain it on your table dish ; lay a tin over it, on which put hot embers ; place the dish also on embers, and let it remain till set. TARRAGON SAUCE (1). Put two table- spoonsful of tarragon vinegar into a saucepan, and reduce it to half the quantity ; then put to it six spoonsful of good butter sauce, a little tarragon and chervil chopped, and mix all well together, and if not sufficiently strong put in a little bit of glaze and a very little more tarragon vinegar. TARRAGON SAUCE (2). Take a large handful of tarragon leaves stripped from the stalks, and put them into a small saucepan, with half a pint of boiling water and four blades of mace ; cover the saucepan, and let it stew slowly till the liquor is reduced to one-half, and the flavour of the tarragon is well drawn out; then strain it, and put the liquor into a clean sauce- pan. Mix together a table-spoonful of flour and 6 ozs. of butter, and when it is well stirred, and beaten smoothly, stir it into the tarragon water; place the saucepan over the fire, and watch it closely. When it has simmered well, and is just beginning to boil, take it off immediately, and transfer it to a sauce-boat. Eat it with any sort of boiled mefit or poultry, or with boiled fish. The tarragon will give it a fine flavour. You may add to the tarragon, while stewing, a small white onion cut in slices. This sauce may be coloured a fine green by pounding in a mortar a sufficient quantity of young parsley or spinach ; then take some of the juice, and add it to the liquid after you have strained it from the tarragon leaves, and before you put in the butter. TARRAGON VINEGAR. Take some tar- ragon, dry it in the sun, and then put it into a jar, which fill with vinegar; let it infuse for a fortnight, then draw it off, express all the liquid from the dregs, and filter the whole. VOL. II. Bottle it, cork the bottles well, and keep them in a cool place. TARTAR. See Cream of Taetaii. TARTAR EMETIC. See Antimony, Tar- trate OF Potash and. TARTARIC ACID is the acid forming with various bases the salts known as cream of tartar, tartar emetic, &c. Its chief uses are in calico- printing, and as a cheap substitute for the citric acid in forming Effervescing Draughts. TARTE R.OYALE. Take i lb. of sweet almonds, and having blanched, pound them with six eggs in a marble mortar to a very fine paste ; add 1 lb. of fresh butter and the grated rinds of two lemons ; beat it well as each ingredient is put in; lay about 18 ozs. or 20 ozs. of sifted, flour on a slab, f)lace the almond paste on it, and knead them well together; divide this into several pieces, which roll to the eighth of an inch in thickness: from these cut twelve to sixteen circular layers, the largest about seven inches in diameter, the rest each somewhat smaller than the other. When all are cut place them on white paper on tins, and bake them in a moderate oven to a clear brown ; then take them out, and let them cool. As soon as cold place the largest piece on a china dish of a sufficient size to let it lie flat, and spread over equally some preserved fruit; cover this with the second-sized layer, on which also spread some preserved fruit; then a third layer, and so on until all the paste is used, taking care to put each layer in its proper order, so that the wliole may form a cone, and that between every one there must be a different kind of preserve. When done glaze and ornament as follows :—Cut some candied lemon and orange-peel into the form of leaves, which arrange in garlands round the tart, putting here and there a ])reserved fruit. When done replace it in the oven for two or three minutes to dry, and then serve. TARTLET, ICING FOR. Beat up the whites of two eggs to a solid froth, lay some on the middle of a pie with a paste brush, sift over it plenty of powder sugar, and press down with the hand; wash out the brush, and sprinkle by degrees with water till the sugar is dissolved ; put in the oven for ten minutes, and serve it up cold. TARTLETS. Butter some small tartlet pans, line them with nice thin paste, mark them neatly round the edges, and bake them. When they are cold fill them with custard, preserve, or any sweetmeat you think proper, and if you choose pour custard over. TARTS. For baking tarts it is as well to use, instead of tin patty pans, small deep plates of china or white ware, with broad flat edges, like little soup plates. You can then have all round the edge a rim of paste ornamentally notched. 2 I