[ 171 ■] MAC MAC you proceed upon the paper, but rather more than an inch apart. Lastly, with the blade of a knife dipped in water smooth the surface of each, set them in a moderate oven, and bake them brown. Try one when you think they are done. If not sufficiently baked let them remain longer in the stove. As soon as they are cold loosen them from the paper by slipping under them a broad-bladed knife. Orange macaroons may be made in the same way, using the grated rind of two oranges only, and the juice of four. MACAROONS AU PORTUGAIS. Take 6 ozs. of potato fiour, 1 lb. of sweet almonds, IJlb. of sugar, and the whites of twelve eggs. Blanch and pound the almonds, beat the eggs to a snow, then mix them with the almonds, add afterwards the sugar and flour, beat the whole up well, put the preparation into small paper cases, and bake them like other biscuits. MACAROONS SPICED. Take lib. of sweet almonds £^nd 2 lbs. of sifted sugar; make your paste, as usual to which add a spoonful of pow- dered cinnamon; six or eight cloves, also pounded; some preserved lemon or orange-peel, of each a spoonful, chopped small; and the grated rind of two lemons. Mix the whole to- gether in the mortar, then lay your macaroons as usual, and bake them witheq ual care. MACAROONS, SPICED (Tart of). Join together as many sheets of wafer paper with water as you may judge necessary to cut it to the size of a dish ; lay it on a sheet of white paper, cover it with the spiced macaroon paste about an inch thick, put it in the oven, and bake it of a clear brown. In the meanwhile boil J lb. or 6 ozs. of sugar with some orange- flower water until, on dipping into and shaking it in the air, the sugar flies off in small bottle- shaped pieces. As soon as the tart is baked pour the sugar over it pretty thickly ; replace it in the oven to dry the sugar, which should resemble icing, and in a few minutes take it out and lay it in a large dish. MACAROONS, SWEET. Blanch 1 lb. of sweet almonds, throw them into cold water for a few minutes, then lay them in a napkin to dry, and leave them for twenty-four hours. At the end of that time pound them a handful at a time, adding occasionally some white of egg till the whole is reduced to a fine paste; then take 2 lbs. of the best lump sugar, pound and sift it, and put it to the almonds, with the grated rinds of two lemons; beat these ingre- dients together in a mortar, adding, one at a time, as many eggs as you find necessary to moisten the paste, which should be thin, but not too much so, as in that case it would run. Your paste being ready, take out a little in a spoon, and lay the macaroons on sheets of white paper, either roimd or oval as you please; lay them at least an inch apart, because they spread in baking, and if put nearer would touch. The whole of your paste being used, place the sheets on tins in a moderate oven for three quarters of an hour. This kind of cake requires great care and attention; it will be well, therefore, to take notice of the following rules : — 1. To mind that the almonds are perfectly dry before you begin to pound them. 2. Take great care that not a particle of the yolk is mixed with the white of egg, which would entirely spoil the colour of the macaroons, and prevent their rising in the oven. To avoid this open each separately, and if per- fectly fresh divide the yolk and white with great care. 3. The oven must not be more than moderately heated, nothing being more liable to burn than almonds and sugar by the least negli- gence in this respect: the surface will be burned, whilst the inside would remain unbaked. The best method to obviate any mischief of this sort is by putting in the oven two or three macaroons to try it; leave them in the usual time, and if, when you take them out, they are of a clear yellow colour, the oven is properly heated, and the whole of the macaroons may be then put in. MACASSAR OIL. Put two pints of sweet oil in a pan, with 1 oz. of alkanet root, cut and bruised, in a linen bag, and add two wine- glasses of good spirits of wine (rum, brandy, gin, or whiskey will do) Give the whole a good heat, but do not let it boil, and keep it on the fire till it takes a fine red colour; then pour it out of the pan into the vessel to cool, and when cold add 1 oz. of essence of bergamot and two tea-spoonsful of essence of cinnamon. . Filter the whole through a funnel lined with blotting paper, and it is ready to be bottled. The bottles and corks must be perfectly dry. MACE, so well known as a spice, is a mem- brane which incloses the nutmeg, the produce of a tree called Myristica moschata. When fresh it is of a blood-red colour, but becomes brown on drying. This is the most aromatic part of the fruit, and contains fixed and essential oils ; it softens in the mouth, but does not melt; its taste is warm, aromatic, fragrant, and similar to a mixture of cinnamon and cloves, but more intense. Mace consists of an essential oil in small quantity; a fragrant, red, fixed oil, very soluble in alcohol and ether; a peculiar gummy principle, in the proportion of about one-third, analogous to amidine and gum, and a small por- tion of ligneous fibre. A decoction of mace contains a portion of both these oils in suspen- sion in the gummy solution. Ether is the best solvent for procuring all the oily matters. The volatile oil of mace, obtained by distillation, is a yellow liquid, lighter than water, of the fra-