MAD MAD r 1 with a third person, with all the variatiotis of violent and ridiculous gestures. In females there is frequently a complication, as it were, of h3'steria with general madness; and laughing or weeping is a common attendant. The food necessary for the sustenance of life is often neglected, and fasting is endured for a length of time without any apparent inconve- nience ; yet with some there is an unusual and indiscriminate voraciousness, and they swallow everything that may come in their way. The stomach and bowels are unusually torpid, costiveness prevails, and the stools are white, small, and hard. Diarrhoea rarely occurs ex- cept towards the termination of the disease. The urine is scanty in quantity, and, for the most part, of a high colour. The pulse is very various, sometimes full and laboured, and sometimes natural ; but little dependence can be placed on it as an indication. The tongue is usually moist, and sometimes has a whitish appearance ; and there is often a pre- ternatural secretion of saliva and mucus in the mouth and throat, which is of a viscid nature, and discharged with difficulty by spitting. Ac- cording to Esquirol maniacs are frequently tor- mented with great thirst. There is also gene- rally a stoppage of the secretion of mucus in the nose. Dr. Rush mentions that Dr. Moore, at his request, examined the maniacs in the Penn- sylvania Hospital with reference to this symp- tom, and found it present in two-thirds of them. Where this secretion was not suspended ho found the mucus of the nose dry and hard. Maniacs are generally deemed capable of enduring high degrees of heat or cold without suffering. This, however, is incorrect, if we are to credit the united testimony of Haslam and Esquirol. During a paroxysm, indeed, they are insensible to either, and particularly to cold; but they suffer like the sane. Mortifica- tion of the feet is a common occurrence, and some, indeed, die from the effects of a low tem- perature during the winter if not properly secured. It is suggested by Esquirol that the great intei'nal heat which some experience may explain their voluntary exposure. The senses are often perverted, constituting what we commonly call illusions. The ear more particularly suffers. Haslam observes that he scarcely recollects a lunatic becoming blind, but numbers deaf; and those who are not deaf are troubled with difficulty of hearing and ringing in the ears. It is from the disorder of this organ, and which is referable to the original diseased action of the functions of the brain, that many maniacs derive the delusion under which they labour. The commission which they suppose themselves to receive from some superior being is given by the ear ; they imagine VOL. II. it constantly repeated. They are thu=5, they imagine, urged to its performance, and in too many cases murder or self-destruction is the unhappy result. " In consequence of some affection of the ear, the insane sometimes insist that malicious agents contrive to blow streams of infected air into this organ. Others have conceived, by means of what they term hearken- ing wires and whiz-pipes, that various obscenities and blasphemies are forced into their minds; and it is not unusual for those who are in a despond- ing condition to assert that they distinctly hear the devil tempting them to self-destruction." The eye is also diseased. Indeed, as Esquirol remarks, it is as much so as any other sense, since it is the principal organ of communication with external objects. It is a common circumstance to mistake various substances or persons. Their appearance to the maniac is various—sometimes fiery and bright; and in these instances the eye itself is sparkling and protruded. To the changes thus produced in this organ may be ascribed the passion that some have for collect- ing sparkling objects, as pebbles, glass, &c. Relief has sometimes been experienced by the temporary use of a bandage over the eyes. The unnatural excitement is thus mitigated. On the other hand, there are many cases in which the eye is sunken and dull, and external objects produce but little impression. The smell does not escape perversion, though this is by no means so common as with the other senses. A lady twenty-seven years of age, in the last stage of consumption, perceived in her room the odour of charcoal. She immediately conceived that there was a design against her life. She left her lodgings, but the fumes of charcoal incessantly pursued her till her death. This depraved state often leads to an abhorrence of food and a danger of starvation. The derangement of the taste, however, is the principal agent in this, originating most com- monly in an unsettled state of the stomach, and accompanied with a furred tongue and a parched mouth. The touch in many instances loses its peculiar power of correcting the other senses. The skin is occasionally hot and dry, or ex-> tremely sensitive ; and even if these conditions be wanting, the sense is so far perverted that the insane frequently deceive themselves in respect to the size, form, and weight of things around them, and the greater number become unhandy in all mechanical occupations, music, writing, &c. This, however, is far from being universal, as some speak and write with ease, and are remarkable for striking expressions, deep thoughts, and ingenious associations. Wakefulness is another symptom, which sometimes precedes all others, and is coeval H