[ 25 ] HAR HAR strain over the fillets. Take care to drain the fillets from their gravy, so that the sauce may not be too clear. It ought properly to adhere to them. HARE HARICOT. Prepare a hare as for roasting, cut it in pieces, which put into a sauce- pan lined with streaked bacon; add turnips, salt, peppei", sweet herbs, and half a pint of good stock, or boiling water only. Let it stand closely covered over a small fire, and when nearly done throw in about thirty pieces of fried bread; skim off the fat, put it in a hot dish, and squeeze lemon juice over it. HARE, HASHED. Skin and stuff a hare, tie some thin slices of bacon over, and spit it; set it before the fire, and half roast it; then take it up, cut it in pieces, and having made some good beef gravy, put in the hare. Sim- mer it for two hours; then add a glass and -a half of port wine, let it stand a little while longer over the fire, and serve it with cuiTant jelly- HARE HOTCHPOTCH. Cut a hare in pieces, and put them into a jug, with a lettuce, cucumbers, turnips, and celery. Put a little spice into it. It is only serviceable for an old hare that will require five hours' boiling. HARE, JUGGED. Having skinned a hare, cut off the shoulders and legs, and divide the back into three pieces; rub them well with fat bacon, and put them into a stewpan, with the trim- mings, allspice, mace, whole pepper, a small clove of garlic, two bay leaves, three onions, parsley, thyme, sweet marjoram, a quart of veal stock, and three gills of port wine. Simmer the whole till three parts done; take out the shoulders, legs, and back ; put them into another stewpan, strain the liquor to them, add a little flour and butter, and stew them till quite done ; take off the fat, season with Cayenne, salt, and lemon juice, and serve the whole in a deep dish. HARE LOAF.. Make a farce in the same manner as for Haee (Boudin of), with the addition of the liver pounded and rubbed through a quenelle sieve. Take a mould of the size you wish to have the loaf, line this completely with thin slices of-bacon, and then put in the farce. Have ready a saucepan with boiling water, put the mould into it, but do not let the water come within an inch of the top of it; lay thin slices of bacon over the hare, cover the sauce- pan, and put on the lid. Let the water simmer, and in about an hour see if it is sufficiently done; if so, take it from the mould, glaze, and serve it with a fumet of game sauce. If you think proper make a hole in the top, into which put the kidneys of the hare, previously dressed in a litile champagne. HARE, MOCK. Cut out what the French cclW the Jilet, and the Scotch and English the side of a sirloin of beef; let it be done with a sliarp knife, that it may not be ragged ; steep it in port wine or red vinegar, cut it open, and farce with" a hare farce. Make it into the shape of a hare, roast it upon a bird spit, and let the fire be brisk, but not fierce ; baste with a bruised clove of garlic put in to the wine and vinegar, and afterwards with butter and a little mace; take up the gravy that is in the dripping-pan, work it well with melted butter, and put it into the dish. Serve it with any of the venison sauces. This is much tenderer and better than most liRrG9 HARE WITH OLIVES. The hare being skinned, cut it in pieces, and lard the legs and fillets with small lardons ; braise the pieces, but when about three parts done take them out, and put them into a saucepan ; then take the gravy of the hare mixed with the blood of a chicken, soak liver in it, pound, and then add it, with the gravy and fifty olives, previously soaked and scalded, to the hare. Set it on a slow fire until the olives are tender, put the whole into a dish, squeeze lemon juice over, and serve very hot. HARE PIE. Cut a hare in pieces, and season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace ; put them into a jug with | lb. of butter, cover it closely, and set it in a large saucepan of boiling water. In the meantime make a forcemeat with } lb. of scraped bacon, two onions, a glass of red wine, the crumb of a small loaf, a little sweet marjoram, and a liver minced small; season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and mix the whole to- gether with the yolks of three eggs. Make a raised crust, at the bottom of which lay some of the forcemeat, and then some of the hare ; put forcemeat on them, and so on till the hare is all in ; add the gravy from the hare, cover the pie, and bake it for an hour and a half. HARE, POTTED. Skin and wash a hare perfectly clean, cut it in pieces, and put them into a jar, with butter, pepper, salt, mace, and herbs if you choose ; tie it over, and set it in the oven with the bread. When done take the meat from the bones, and pound it with the fat which comes from the gravy to a fine paste; press it down closely in pots, and cover it with clarified butter. HARE, RAGOUT OF. Skin and take all the bones from a hare that has hung some days, leaving the head untouched ; lay it open on the table, strew pepper and salt, and spread a good forcemeat over; roll it up close to the head, tie it up, and stew it in a clear braise, which must be reduced to half the quantity; add half a bottle of port wine, and stew till the hare is done ; then take it out, and put to the liquor a little plain sauce. Reduce the whole to a proper con- sistence, add truffles, tnorels, mushrooms, cocks'