OX ox r 283 ] ox-CHEEK PIE. Bone and soak the cheeks thoroughly in water, boil them till tender, cleanse them very well, take out the balls of the eye, and season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; then mince some beef and beef suet, lay this at the bottom of the dish, then put in the cheeks with a few whole cloves, close up the pie or pasty, and put it in the oven to bake. Make the paste as follows :—Half a peck of flour, the whites of a dozen eggs, and 2i lbs. of butter. Work up the butter and eggs dry in the flour, then add a little water to make it a stiff paste, and work up all cold. OX CHEEK, POTTED, Take an ox . cheek, and thoroughly wash it; then bone it, rub it over with the same ingredients that are used for potted beef, and set it in the oven until it is tender ; then take out the fat, the skin, and the palate; add to 1 lb. of the meat 2 ozs. of the fat which swims on the top of the liquor, beat them together in a mortar, and finish the same as for potted beef. OX CHEEK, STEWED. Take half a head, let it soak for three hours, and thoroughly clean it with water; take the meat off the bones, and put it into a pan, with a large onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, some bruised allspice, pepper, and salt. Place the bones on the top, pour on two or three quarts of water, and cover the pan very closely with brown paper; let it stand eight or ten houi's in a slow oven, or simmer by the side of the fire. When tender put the meat into a clean dish, and let it get quite cold. Take off the cake of fat, and warm the head in pieces in the soup. Put in what vegetable j'ou think best. OX FEET, FRIED. Boil them until they are tender, skin and split them, take out the bones, and fry them in butter. When they have fried for a short time put in some mint and parsley shred small, a little salt, and some beaten pepper; beat up the yolks of eggs with some mutton gravy and vinegar, the juice of a lemon or an orange, and a little nutmeg ; lay your fry in the dish, and pour the sauce over it. You may add a little shred onion if you think proper. OX - FEET JELLY. Put a little hot water over the top of the stock, pour it oS, and wipe it dry with a clean cloth ; put a quart of it into a saucepan, with the whites of five or six eggs, the juice of five lemons made very sweet with jood brown sugar, a clove or two, and a little cinuaraon pounded; let it boil twenty minutes, stirring all the time. OX GALL. See Gall, Ox. OX HEAD, POTTED. When the bones come easily out take off the meat, break the bones, and return them into the stock-pot. See that there is sufficient water, otherwise much boiling IS vain. See the meat is cool, but cover it over that it may not dry; finish the stock, Strain it through lawn, and prepare it for an aspic; or, in other words, make a fine, clear, high-coloured, savouiy jelly with strong ale, vegetables, and spices. {See Aspic.) Cut the nicest parts of the head into squares or fillets, rounds, lozenges, &c. (the eyes and ears round); slice ham and bacon, and cut them with cutters into flowers, comfits, and all sorts of things; cut also pickled cucumber, and mix in small capers. When all are ready run into the mould a little of the jelly; let it be at least a quarter of an inch thick, and then dress in some of the most beautiful pieces, either in forms or a well-designed confusion : lay over them cut carrots. A bit of beet-root may be so disposed as to be seen, but not too much, as very dark colours take a great deal of management. Run some jelly round the sides, and decorate them, leaving time for the jelly to cool. Mix in the ham, bacon, and pickles, and pour in more jelly : attention must be paid that the pickles do not prevail. As the sides are more seen at table than the top, let some crayfish be set creeping along them (they must be put in with the backs down), and oysters in another place. Comfits may be made of well-seasoned rice, which must be swelled and a little dried, else it would make the jelly muddy. Mince all the parings fine, and after the last part of the border is finished pour it in to fill up the mould. Some stir all well togethei", and pour it into the mould, arranging with a fork the nicest pieces upon the surface. This dish is not expensive, and is very handsome for a standing dish at an entertainment; it is beautiful sliced, and not subject to waste: it may be moulded again. Do not heat it in a saucepan ; put it into a mould that will hold it, and set it into a bain-marie; dish it upon a napkin, and stick on it a rich fringe of parsley round the top and bottom. It is excellent, and a good standing dish in a family where there is a long table to fill up. For entertainments it ought to be made like a very large cake, decorated with jelly. When taken from the table the dish must be placed on a folded cloth, with a heavy earthen vessel turned over it, and covered up with a cloth, that no air may get in, as its appearance is often hurt when it is perfectly good from want of due care. It will also keep well if washed over with distilled vinegar. It is an excellent second-course side dish, either moulded or in slices. OX-HEEL SAUSAGES. Take out the bone, keep the skin as long as possible, and lay it in a marinade of white vinegar and spices for three or four days ; make a farce of reddened beef, or ham, bacon, and panada ; season highly