[ 3G6 ] PUD PUD and clear. Candied orange and citron may be fldded if you think proper. PUDDINGS. Many of the directions for jnaking pastry apply also to the preparation of puddings. The freshness of all the ingredients of puddings is of much importance, as fresh-ground flour, pure milk, new laid or sweet eggs, fresh suet, fresh butter, or washed salt butter. Suet makes light pudding crust: beef suet is best, next mutton, and then veal. Beef marrow is sometimes substituted for suet in puddings, which it most enriches. Dripping may be also used for common crust, but neither drip- ping nor butter will make crust so light as suet. Dried fruits for puddings should be care- fully picked, and sometimes washed. Currants may be plumped out by pouring boiling water upon them. They should be dried on a sieve or a cloth before the fire. It is a good plan to pick them m large quantities upon a tni sheet, as in rubbing them on it any stone or grit may be detected by its noise. Raisins should be stoned with clean hands: if done with a knife point much of the pulp is liable to be removed with the stones. The best raisins for puddings are the large, rich kinds: the sultana kind, free from stones, is neitlier so well flavoured nor so luscious. Raisins should be generally once cut, not chopped small, for puddings. Candied peels, as citron, lemon, and orange, should be cut small, but not minced. Fresh fruit shoifld be picked free from stalks, and wiped if required. Ptice, sago, tapioca, &c., should be soaked half an hour, and well washed and picked before they are mixed into puddings; and mustiness should be guarded against. To clean currants for puddings or calces. Put them into a cullender, strew a handful of flour over them, and rub them with the hands to separate the lumps, and to detach the stalks; work them round in the cuUender, and shake it well, when the small stalks and stones will fall through it. Next pour plenty of cold w-ater over the currants, drain and spread them on a soft cloth, press it over them to absorb the moisture, and then lay them on a very clean oven tin or a large dish, and dry them gradually (or they will become hard) either in a cool oven or before the fire, taking care, in the latter case, that they are not placed sufficiently near it for the ashes to fall amongst tliem. When they are perfectly dry clear them entirely from the re- maining stalks, and fixim every stone that may, be amongst them. The best mode of detecting these is to lay the fruit at the far end of the dish or sheet of paper, and to pass it lightly, and in very small portions, vpith the fingers towards one's self, examining it closely as this is done. To mix hatter for puddings. Put the flour and salt into a bowl, and stir them together; whisk the eggs thoroughly, strain them through a fine hair sieve, and add them very gradually to the flour; for if too much liquid be poured to it at once it will be full of lumps, and it is easy, with care, to keep the batter perfectly smooth. Beat it well and lightly with the back of a strong wooden spoon, and after the eggs are added thin it with milk to a proper consistence. The whites of the eggs beaten separately to a solid froth, and stirred gently into the mixture the instant before it is tied up for boiling, or before it is put into the oven to bake, will render it remarkably light. When fruit is added to the batter it must be made thicker than when it is served plain, or it will sink to the bottom of the pudding. Batter should never stick to the knife when it is sent to the table: it will do this both when a sufficient number of eggs are not mixed with it, and when it is not enough cooked. About four eggs to i lb. of flour will make it firm enough to cut smoothly. Do not break many eggs into a bowl together, for if there be one bad one it will spoil those previously in the bowl, but break them one at a time into a basin, beat the whole together with a whisk or a fork, and strain through a sieve. When the whites of eggs are only required, the 3'olks, if not broken, will keep good for two or three days if they be covered up. Warmed butter will not oil if mixed with a little milk or wine. Salt improves the flavour of every pudding mixture, even if it be sweet. A pinch of salt will improve a plum pudding. Batter pudding, to be made very light, should only have the whites of eggs in it, and milk enough to make it the thickness of a custard : a pudding made with a pint of milk requires an hour's boiling. Puddings are better for being mixed some time before boiling or baking, if they be well stirred before they are tied up or put in a dish; it is, however, advisable to add the eggs only just before. Of boiling puddings. It is not requisite to flour a pudding cloth, but merely to dip it in boiling water, and immediately to put the pudding into it. Puddings are boiled in cloths, or in moulds tied in cloths ; they should be tied tightly, and the moulds buttered before the pudding is put into them. They should not be tied up or put into moulds or dishes till the minute before they are to be put into the saucepan or oven. Liquid puddings are best boiled by placing the mould or basin in a stewpan, with hot water enough to boil the pudding without boiling over. As a general rule, however, puddings are lighter