[ 463 ] SQU STE drops in almond mixture, ammoniac mixture, or mucilage. Vinegar of Squills. Take of fresh squill root (bulb) dried, 4ozs.; distilled vinegar, 1| pint; proof spirit, f2 ozs. Macerate the squill root in the vinegar with a gentle heat for twenty-four hours ; then express the liquor, and set it aside, that the feculencies may subside ; lastly, add the spirit to the clear liquor. This is expectorant and diuretic in chronic catarrh, humoral asthma, and dropsies. The dose is from i fluid drachm to 2 fluid drachms. In' larger doses it produces vomiting, and is occa- sionally used in the above diseases when the stomach is loaded. SQUINTING, arising from the habit of using one eye only, or from the weakness or imperfection of the other, may be generally cured. Another arising from some mal-con- formation of the eye, or its parts, is scarcely remediable. The principle of cure in the first two species is nearly the same ; namely, the constant exer- cise of the neglected eye, whether naturally weak or not. This may be effected by covering the strong eye, or that which is always employed, and confining the person to the use of the neglected or weak eye ; for in this way the muscles of the latter, from constant action, will become perfect in the habit of directing the eye upon the object, gain strength in that action, and acquire a power of adjusting the eye. When this is established in a sufficient degree • the other eye may be set at liberty. The time that will be necessary for the cure will depend upon the inveteracy of the habit, the length of time that the muscles have been left to them- selves, and the degree of weakness of the sight; for it is with difficulty that muscles acquire an increased degree of action after having been long habituated to a more limited contraction. Dr. Darwin observes that if the squinting has not been confirmed by long habit, and one eye be not much worse than the other, a piece of gauze stretched on a circle of whalebone, to cover the best eye in such a manner as to re- duce the distinctness of vision of this eye to a similar degree of imperfection with the other, should be worn some hours every day. For the cure of the curious case related by the same ingenious physician, in which there was no defect in either eye, but merely a de- praved habit of using both eyes separately. Dr. Darwin says a gnomon of thin brass was made to stand over his nose, with a half-circle of the same metal to go round his temples; these were covered with black silk, and by means of a buckle behind his head, and a cross-piece over the crown of his head, this gnomon was managed so as to be worn without inconvenience, and pro- jected before his nose about two inches and a half. By the use of this gnomon he soon found it less inconvenient to view all objects with the eye next to them, instead of the eye opposite to them. After this habit was weakened by a week's use of the gnomon, two bits of wood about the size of a goose-quill were blackened all but a quarter of an inch at their summits; these were pre- sented for him to look at, one being held on one side the extremity of his black gnomon, and the other on the other side of it. As he viewed those they were gradually brought forward beyond the gnomon, and the one concealed behind the other. By these means in another week he could bend both his eyes on the same object for half a minute together. By the practice of this exercise before a glass continually he became in another week able to read for a minute together with his eyes both directed on the same objects. If the squinting cannot thus be removed it is at once curable by dividing the contracted nerve, which draws the eyeball too much to one side. STAIR CARPET. Stair carpets should always have a slip of paper put under them, at and over the edge of every stair, which is the part where they first wear out, in order to lessen the friction of the carpets against the boards beneath. The strips should be, within an inch or two, as long as the carpet is wide, and about four or five inches in breadth, so as to lie a little distance upon each stair. This simple plan, so easy of execution, will, we know, preserve a stair carpet half as long again as it would last without the strips of paper. STAMMERING. See Impediment op Speech. STARCH. See Clear Starching. STARKEY'S PILLS. See Matthews Pills. STAYS. See Corsets. STEAM, COOKING BY. Much relative to this subject will be found under the head of Gas, Cooking by. Many are the boilers and forms of apparatus invented for this mode of cookery; but we refrain from inserting them, because it is quite certain that neither meat, poultry, nor fish can be so well cooked by steam as by boiling. For steaming potatoes, which is an excellent mode of cooking them, no other apparatus is needed than a saucepan with a steamer fitted to its top. STEEL ARTICLES. -See Anti-attrition, Bars (Bright), &c. STEWING differs from roasting and boiling in the heat being applied to the substance thi'ough a small portion of a liquid medium,