AVAL [ 550 ] WAX. into each bottle, and Avlien corked let the bottles be filled quite up ; cork them tightly, seal them over, and put them in a cool and dry place for one year before they are used. See Ketchup, Walnut. WALNUT OF MARCHPANE. Take a piece of marchpane paste, into which work some cinnamon and bole armenia (both in powder), but of the latter only a small quantity, as there should be a very slight red tinge. When equally coloured roll out the paste to the thickness of half an inch ; have ready two moulds of pear- tree wood of two halves of a walnut shell, into which put small pieces of the paste; press them down with the fingers, that the marks may be conveyed to the paste; cut off all that comes above the edges of the moulds, and then turn them out. The paste must be well sprinkled with flour to prevent it sticking to the moulds. When you have as many walnitt shells as you wish, place them the hollow side downwards on paper ; leave them thus for three or four days, and then put them into a cool oven for a quarter of an hour: if put into too warm an oven the shells will burst, and be too deeply coloured. Li the meantime boil some sugar to a syrup with a little water, and when the sweet- meats are done wash the outer part of them with this syrup by means of a hair pencil, and replace them in the oven a minute to dry; then fill each shell with a compote of apples, rasp- berries, or any other fruit; moisten the edges with gum, and stick them together. These imitative walnuts, if carefully done, bear a close resemblance to the real ones, are of a delicious flavour, and will keep a long time in a dry place. WALNUT WINE. To every gallon of ' water put 2 lbs. of sugar and 1 lb. of honey, and boil for half an hour: be careful to skim it clear. Put into a tub a handful of walnut leaves to every gallon, pour the liquor upon them, and let it stand all night; then take out the leaves, and put in half a pint of yeast; let it work fourteen days ; beat it four or five times a day, take off its sweetness, and then stop up the cask. It should stand six months before it is used. WALNUTS: To Keep. Put a layer of sand at the bottom of a jar, then a layer of walnuts, next another of sand, and so on till full. When wanted for use lay them in warm water for an hour, shift the water as it cools, rub them dry, and they will peel easily, and eiit sweet. A better plan is to soak the walnuts for an hour in water having 8 ozs. of common salt dissolved in each gallon. Then, withoiit wiping them, put the walnuts into a brown pan, cover it, and a cool cellar. WALNUTS: To Pickle (1). Gather the nuts before the inside shell is hard, which may be known by trying them with a pin ; lay them in salt and water for nine days, changing the liquor every three days; then take them out, and dry them on a sieve or mat in the air: they should not touch each other, and they should be turned that every side may become black alike; then put them into a jar. When half the nuts are in, with about thirty cloves stuck into them, add the rest of the nuts. To one hundred walnuts allow half a pint of mustard seed, \ oz. of mace, ^ oz. of peppercorns, and sixty bay leaves. Boil all the spice in some good common vinegar, and pour it boiling upon the nuts, observing that they are closely covered ; stop the mouth of the jar wdth a cloth, and cover it with bladder or leather. In about six weeks they will be fit for use, when they should be examined, and if they have absorbed the vinegar so much as to leave any of the nuts dry, more should be added, but it need not be boiled. WALNUTS : To Pickle (2). Put a hundred large double walnuts into a stone jar; take 4 ozs. of black pepper, 1 oz. of Jamaica pepper, 2 ozs. of ginger, 1 oz. of cloves, a pint of mustard seed, two cloves of garlic, and four handsful of salt; bruise the spice and mustard seed, boil them in as much vinegar as is sufficient to cover the walnuts, and when cold pour it over the walnuts ; in two days boil the pickle again, pour it to the walnuts immediately, cover them closely, and repeat this for three davs. WALNUTS preserved" WITH SUGAR. Gather the walnuts when they have attained their full size, but before they become hard : they should be in such a state that a pin will penetrate them. Prick each walnut all over with a large pin, put them into cold water, and leave them for two hours; then pour that water away, and fill the pan with fresh; let the walnuts remain thus for four days, changing the water every twenty-four hours to take out all the bitterness ; at the end of that time change the water, and set them on the fire ; as soon as they are soft take them out carefully with a skimmer, put them again into cold water, and leave them four or five days, changing the water as before every twenty- four hours: at the expiration of that time place the walnuts in a large glnzed pan. Then take common sugfn-—even the refuse of what has been clarified is good enough ; boil this with some water, and run the syrup through a jelly bag; well wash the pan that it was boiled in, then put in the filtered syrup, and boil it to lisse; let it stand, and when about half cold pour it over the walnuts and leave them. Next day drain off the syrup, boil it again, and when half cold pour it on the fruit; repeat this every