MAC MAD [ 175 ] stiiTing till it boils, when it may be poured over MACKEREL, PICKLED. Clean and divide them, and cut each side into three; or, leaving them undivided, cut each fish into five or six pieces. To six large mackerel take nearly 1 oz. of pepper, two nutmegs, a little mace, four cloves, and a handful of salt, all of the finest powder; mix the whole together, make holes in each bit of fish, and put the seasoning into them ; rub each piece of fish with some of the seasoning, and then fry them brown in oil; let them stand till cold, then put them into a stone jar, and cover with vinegar. If you intend to keep them for some time pour oil on the top of the jars. In this manner they may be pre- served for months. MACKEREL, ROASTED. Soak three mackerel in a marinade of oil, with scallions, parsley, and shallots, all chopped. Season with salt and pepper. When they have lain in this for half an hour fasten the mackerel to a spit, and roast them before a small fire, basting with melted butter. Just before they are done strew bread crumbs over them; finish, and serve them with any fish sauce vou please. MACKEREL ROE SAUCE. Boil the soft roes of mackerel, and bruise them with the yolk of an egg; then beat them up with a very little pepper and salt, and some fennel and parsley, boiled, chopped finely, and mixed with about half a pint of thinly melted butter. To this you may add mushreom catsup, walnut pickle, or soy. MACKEREL, SMOKED. Gut, wipe, and salt the mackerel for twelve hours; wipe and hang them in any convenient place for smoking. Herrings are salted in the same way. MACKEREL, SOFT ROES OF (1). Take the soft roes from half a dozen broiled mackerel, and put them into paper cases, with shred parsley, raspings, butter, salt, and pepper. Bake them, and when done serve them with melon juice. MACKEREL, SOFT ROES OF (2). Take the soft roes from four mackerel, put them into a pan sufficient with clarified butter to cover them, and then set the pan in an oven. When done take them out, drain, and cut them into dice, which put into petits pates ; keep them hot, and just before they are sent to table put into each some of the following sauce :—Reduce two spoonsful of veloute and one of consomme, then add a little butter and thick cream, season with pepper and salt, and pour it in quite hot. MACKEREL, SOUSED. Thoroughly wash and clean them, take out the roes, and boil them in salt and water. When they are done take them out, lay them in a deep dish, pour away half the liquor they were boiled in, and add to the rest of the liquor as much vinegar as will cover tiiem, with two or three Day leaves. They should lie two or three days before they are eaten. MADDER, or Weld, is obtained from the roots of Ruhia tinctorimi, or dyers' madder. It is employed in considerable quantities for dye- ing a fine red colour, and likewise as a first tint for several other shades. If wool be previously boiled in a solution of alum and tartar, and then immersed in a hot decoction of tartar only with this drug, it will acquire a very durable, though not beautiful red tinge. The root of the common or wild madder is an excellent detergent and aperient, on which account it has been highly recommended in visceral obstructions, particularly of the uterus ; in coagulations of the blood, induced either by falls or bruises ; in the beginning of dropsical complaints; and especially in the rickets. It may be given pulverised, in doses from five to fifteen grains to children, and from half to a whole drachm three or four times a day to adults. When taken internally it possesses the re- markable property of tinging the ui'ine with a deep red colour, and produces similar effects on the bones of animals if eaten among other food. MADE DISHES. Be careful to trim off all the sldn, gristle, &c., that will not be eaten, and shape handsomely and of even thickness the various articles which compose your made dishes. This is sadly neglected by common cooks. Only stew them till they are just tender, and do not stew them to rags ; therefore what you prepare the day before it is to be eaten do not dress quite enough the first day. We have given receipts for the most easy and simple way to make Hashes, &c. Those who are well skilled in culinary arts can dress up things in this way so as to be as agreeable as they were the first time they were cooked. MADEIRA. Madeira wine is rich and luscious, and has a pungent, aromatic, nutty, or bitter sweet flavour; and according to Brande and Prout, the true kinds of it contain 22-27 per cent, of alcohol; West Indian kinds, 21'2 per cent.; and the Sercial kinds, 20'32 per cent. Since the reduction in the duty of French and Spanish wines its consumption in this country has been much decreased, being superseded by sherry. The best Madeira wine is produced on those estates which lie on the south side of the island of that name ; and, although this wine is naturally of a strong full body, considerable quantities of brandy are always added, in order to enable it to sustain the high temperature to which it is subjected on voyages to India, large quantities being placed on board ships trading to the East and to China for the purpose of ripening. The process has been tried artificially