KIG [ 400 ] RIG in very slowly and ligbtly, holding the whisk or stirring rod perpendicularly or upright in your hand, and moving it gently round and round on the surface of the batter, without allowing it to go down deeply. If the flour is stirred in hard and fast the cake will certainly he tough, leathery, and unwholesome. Sponge cake, when cut, should look coarse-grained and rough. RICE, WHOLE (in a Shape). Wash a large tea-cupful of rice in several waters, put it into a saucepan with enough cold water to cover it, and when it boils add two cupsful of rich milk, and boil it till it becomes dry; put it into a shape, and press it in well. When cold turn it out, and serve with preserved black currants, raspberries, or any sort of fruit round it. ' RICKETS. This disease is characterised by an uncommon size of the head, swelling and enlargement of the joints, flattened ribs, incur- vation of the spine, distortion of the long bones, protuberance of the belly, and general emacia- tion. In some families it is an hereditary dis- ease, though parents who have been affected with it have sometimes a healthy and robust offspring. Children of the poorer and more profligate classes are those most commonly atfected with it, although there are circum- stances which conduce to it, such as a damp cold residence, impure air, want of attention to cleanliness, bad nursing, want of exercise and food, weakness, &c. The proximate cause, how- ever, is now considered to be a deficiency of animal gluten in the bones (phosphate of lime): hence they are deprived of that necessary strength and firmness which otherwise might characterise them. The disease seldom appears before the ninth month, and very rarely shows itself after the second year of a child's age. It comes on slowly; and the first appearances of it to be observed are, flaccidity of the flesh, wasting of the body, paleness and loss of colour in the- cheeks if they have been of a rosy complexion, a slight swelling of the face, &c. The child is listless, and unwilling to exert itself on the least occasion, and is unable to walk. The appetite is often not much impaired, but the stools are unusually frequent and loose, and the belly appears uncommonly full and tumid. With respect to the faculties of the mind, the understanding is generally very mature, but in a few cases stupidity and fatuity ensue. There is fever at the commencement of the disease; but in its more advanced stage a frequent pulse and other symptoms^ of a hectic nature attend. In some cases the disease proceeds no further, and the child gradually recovers its health and strength, the limbs being left, however, in a distorted state. In others it continues to in- crease, till at length every function of the animal economy becomes afi"ected, and the scene is closed in death. The cure of rickets depends upon invigorating the system, by bracing up the solids, promoting digestion, and the formation of good chyle, by administering such medicines as possess a tonic power, together with immersion in cold water, increasing its eff'ects by friction with flannels ; a free, open, and dry air; nutritive diet, with wine, and proper exercise ; and by carrying the body in a horizontal posture, as an erect one might increase the deformity. The following powder may be taken twice a day mixed in a little syrup:—Take myrrh and powder of calumba, of each 5 to 10 grains; sulphate of iron, 1 grain. In consequence of the difBculty of getting young children to take bark or any kind of bitters, the metallic tonics, such as the oxide of zinc, subcarbonate of iron, &c., must be em- ployed. Ammoniated tincture of iron may be given, from 30 to 60 drops, twice a day, in a glass of cold water. Or, take subcarbonate of iron, 6 grains ; powdered rhubarb, 4 grains ; lump sugar, 8 grains. Make a powder, to be taken morning and evening in a little syrup, treacle, or honey. Or, take oxide of zinc, 12 to 24 grains ; compound powder of cinnamon, 1 scruple; white sugar, 2 scruples. Mix, divide it into twelve powders, and give one night and morning. Where children with this disease can be per- suaded to take bark, a few grains of the extract may be given mixed up in port wine ; and, to assist the effect of the above remedies, a gentle emetic may be occasionally given, particularly in those cases where the appetite and digestion are considerably impaired. The bowels ai-e to be kept open with some gentle laxative. In removing obstructions of the abdominal viscera in children, and to restore the health, by soliciting the return of the secretions, Sir A. Cooper, Bart., strenuously recommends the following mixture :—Take tincture of Peru- vian bark and tincture of rhubarb, of each 1 oz.; oxymuriate of quicksilver, 1 grain. Mix, and let a tea-spoonful be given twice or thi-ee times a day. When there is rickets with mesenteric ob- struction the above will be found to produce a very beneficial efi'ect, with occasional doses of from 3 to 5 grains of the compound powder of chalk, with opium. Should the rickets have proceeded from a venereal taint, tonics and mercury may be com- bined ; if from worms or difiicult teething, the means advised under those heads may be adopted. See Dentition and Anthelmintics. The great advantage, however, in the treat-