MIL MIL [ 5iG8 ] Slled at the commencement of the milking of the cow, and the others at regular intervals till the last, which was filled with the dregs of the strokings. A counter-weight being put in for each cup, they were individually weighed, so as to ascertain with precision that the same quan- tity of milk was contained in each cup. From a great number of experiments, frequently re- peated with many different cows, the result was in all cases as follows :ѥ The quantity of cream obtained from the first-drawn cup was in every case much smaller than that from the milk last drawn, and the milk in the cups intermediately filled afforded less or more cream according as they were nearer the beginning or the end of the milking. It is unnecessary here to enter into details of these intermediate proportions, but it is proper the reader should be informed that the quantity of cream obtained from the last-drawn cup from some cows exceeded that from the first in the proportion of sixteen to one. In other cows, however, and under particular circumstances, the disproportion was not equally great, but in no case did it fall short of the I'atio of eight to one. Probably, on an average of an equal num- ber of cows, it might be found to run at the pro- portion of ten or twelve to one. The circumstance which chiefly occasioned a variation in regard to these proportions ^\&s the nearness to, or the distance from, the time of calving; for in all cases the milk of the same cow was thinner after calving than it was at a greater distance from it, and the disproportion between the first and last drawn was also much greater soon after calving than at a more distant period. As the flush of milk occasioned by that incident abated it genei'ally became thicker and more uniform in quality; so that if, within a fortnight after calving, the proportion of cream from the first and the last-drawn cups was as sixteen to one, it is probable that, at the end of six or nine months, the disproportion in that cow's milk would not be more than as ten or twelve to one. These variations, however, do not take place in the same proportion in every cow. On the contrary, the milk of some cows at all times varies more in this' respect than that of others ; so that in this case, as in most others, the nature of the breed and the individual idiosyncrasy, or peculiar constitution vi tne animal, must both be adverted to before any certain conclusions can be drawn. But if the difference in the quantity of the cream obtained at tlie beginning and at the end of the milking be great, th.e variation in point of the quality of that cream is still greater. In the first drawn cup, especially when the diffei'ence in quantity was very great, the cream upon it was only a thin tough film. In the last-drawn cun it was of a thick butyraceous consistence, and of a glowing richness of colour, which no other kind of cream is ever found to possess. The difference in the quality of the milk which remained after the cream was separated was, perhaps, still greater than respects either the quantity or the quality of the cream. The milk drawn in the first cup was a thin bluish fluid, appearing as if a large proportion of water had been blended with ordinary milk, while that drawn in the last cup was of a thick consistence, yellow colour, and rich taste, more resembling cream than milk in all respects, only sweeter to the taste, and less oily upon the palate. From this experiment it appears that the person who, by bad milking of his cows, loses a little milk, loses much more than is usually suspected; for if he leave behind only half a pint of milk that might have been obtained, he, in fact, loses as much cream as would have been yielded by about six or eight pints at the begin- ning, and loses, besides, that portion of the cream which alone can give richness and high flavour to his butter. If milk be put into a dish, and allowed to stand till it throws up cream, the portion of cream rising first to the surface is richer in quality and greater in quantity than that which rises in a second equal space of time, and the cream which rises in the second interval of time is greater in quantity and richer in quality than that wdiich rises in a third equal space of time. That of the third is greater than that of the fourth, and so of the rest. The cream that rises continues progressively to decrease in quantity and decline in quality so long as any rises to the surface. Experiments in this case not having been conducted with so much accu- racy as the former, the difference in the pro- portion which takes place in equal periods of time has not been ascertained. It is not cer- tain, however, but that a greater quantity of cream may, upon the whole, be obtained from the milk by taking it away at different times; but the process is so troublesome as not to be counterbalanced by the increased quantity ob- tained, if, indeed, any additional quantity be thus obtained, which is not as yet fully ascer- tained ; but, where the quality of the butter is the principal object in view, it may be greatly improved by attending to this peculiarity. Thick milk always throws up a much smaller proportion of the cream which it actually con- tains than milk that is thinner; but that cream is of a richer quality, and, if water be added to that thick milk, it will afford a considerably greater quantity of cream, and consequently more butter, than it would have done if allowed to remain pure, but its quality is at the same time greatly debased.