L 243 ] NAI NAI till they have got as much off them as they can get; nay, sometimes they encroach upon the fiesh itself. Those people imagine that hy this means their nails will become fine and delicate; but, instead of that, they are very soon mortified by seeing the flesh at the top of the fingers rising above them in the form of a pad, which, as it has the resemblance of an excrescence, makes the deformity the more remarkable and fleshy. Besides, it is always accompanied with dirt, which sticks so very close to it that there is no washing it away. This deformity is very difficult to correct when once you have allowed it to gain ground, because the pain which the nail occasions when it is growing, by pushing the flesh which over- grows it, obliges you to cut the nail as soon as it comes that length; and thus the deformity continues, and becomes a necessary evil. But if you would have it cured you must suff'er this pain, and let the nail grow till it has reduced the flesh to its proper place. This, however, will not answer if it is too long deferred; for then the nail, when it is growing, will insinuate itself into the flesh and divide it, which may have very bad consequences. The nail some- times receives too much nourishment from the blood, which renders it large and thick, and the substance of the nail is softer than it ought to be ; for in that case the vessels which distribute the nourishment to the body of the nail very easily receive and admit, without any resistance, whatever presents itself to these orifices, whence it happens that the nail becomes more solid and thick. To correct this deformity there are two things requisite. The first is to scrape the nail gently and pretty often with a piece of glass or a very sharp knife, taking care not to go too deep, for fear of hurting the membrane which lines the inside of the nail, and which abounds with tendinous fibres extremely susceptible of pain. The second is to apply an astringent plaster over the nail, such, for example, as the follow- ing, the property of which is to contract and straighten the small vessels which carry the nourishment to the nail, and consequently to hinder it from growing too thick :—Take equal parts of mastich, lapis calaminai"is, sealed earth, the root of bistort, and that of angelica and tormentil; reduce them to a fine powder, and with a sufficient quantity of resin, wax, and turpentine, make it into a plaster, to be applied over the nail, and continued several weeks, only renewing it after it has been used for a good many days. This plaster is likewise very serviceable when the nail has been too much scraped, in which case it ought to be immediately applied. The nails drop off" from several different causes, as from their roots being eroded as in the whitlow, or cut through as in wounds, or crushed as in violent bruises. In these cases there grows a new nail by degrees under the old one, which decays in proportion as the new one increases. The old nail hangs sometimes loose for several weeks without dropping off'; nor can it be taken away without pain, till at last the new one, growing larger and larger below it, drives it quite out, so that the person suffers no incon- venience from it, which proceeds from the tendinous fibres of the old nail being so com- pressed by the new one that they become withered, and by this means lose all sense of pain. It happens frequently that the new nail takes a bad shape, because it is moulded by the flesh below, which is often rendered ill-shaped also from one or other of the causes mentioned above. For if it is the whitlow that makes the nail drop off, for example, in that case, as the flesh below is not compressed by the nail, upon account of its root being eroded and de- tached by the ulcer, that flesh, we say, must be at liberty to take a bad shape, and consequently the tender new nail, which begins to grow above the flesh, must be obliged to take the same shape, and thereby become disfigured. Our business, then, is to see by what means this bad figure of the new nail may be prevented. The most certain method is to apply over this nail, while it is yet tender, the concave side of a small bit of white iron fashioned like a nail, that is to say, the same shape the nail ought to have; do it over on the inside with a little cerate, and fasten it to the finger in such a manner that the flesh, which begins to be covered with the new nail, may be obliged to take the shape of the white iron, and to mould itself by it. The cerate must only be re- newed once in two days, and the white iron must be immediately clapped on again, that the nail may not be allowed time to take a wrong shape. This method must be continued till the nail becomes hard; but, as soon as it begins to harden, you ought to apply the white iron with- out the cerate, for fear of making the nail too tender, and by this means hindering it from acquiring its due firmness and solidity. We see a great many people who have the nail of the thumb, and sometimes of one of the fingers (though this happens more rarely), with two surfaces inclining to one another in the form of an ass's back, whence this sort of nail has got its name. In whichever finger this deformity happens, which is most incident to the thumb, it always