LEA [ 131 LEA of Wirtemberg, by a decree dated Marcb 10th, 1690, declared it capital to mix litharge (oxide of lead) in wine, or even to sell litharge in the shops; and individuals were punished with death for the infraction of this decree. At the present day we have every reason to believe that sugar of lead is frequently employed by unprincipled dealers. Cider adulterated by lead has also frequently proved injurious, and, indeed, to such an extent, that the disease known by the name of the Devonshire colic has been deemed to originate from this cause. We are aware that other "causes have been assigned, but it is sufiScient for our present purpose that this fluid, among others, has excited the symptoms in question; and it is certainly well established that cider boiled in leaden vessels has produced death to those drinking it, and that the racking of it in a leaden cistern, or even the grinding of the apples in troughs which are united by lead, has been the origin of serious illness. LEAMINGTON WATER. The village of Leamington, two miles from Warwick, and forty from Cheltenham, has acquired considerable re- putation, on account of containing springs of a strong saline water, which supply numerous cold and hot baths. These springs contain chloride of sodium, sulphate of soda, chloride of magnesium, a small quantity of sulphate of magnesia, and a very large portion of sul- phate of lime. They gently affect the bowels in a moderate dose, and are consequently useful in all diseases where a purgative operation is required. To form this water artificially dis- solve in '^8 fluid ozs. of water the following salts:—Chloride of sodium (common salt), 96 grains; chloride of calcium crystals, 45 grains; chloride of magnesium crystals, 34 grains; sulphate of soda (Glauber's salt) crystals, 13 grains; then add 4 fluid ozs. of sulphuretted hydrogen water. LEATHER is curried for boots, shoes, &c., thus :—The hide is first soaked thoroughly in water, then placed on a polished wooden beam, with the flesh side outwards, and pared with a broad sharp knife till all the inequalities are removed, and it is reduced to the requisite thin- ness. It is then again washed, and rubbed with a polished stone, and while wet is be- smeared with oil, generally cod oil, or a mixture I of this and tallow. When hung up to dry the I moisture evaporates, and the oil, which cannot j be dissipated by mere exposure, gradually takes the place of the moisture, and penetrates deeply into the pores of the leather. It is then dried either in the sun or in a stoved room. The leather is blacked on the grain side simply by rubbing it with an iron liquor, made with sulphate of iron, or some such material. On the flesh side the blacking of the leather con- sists of lampblack and oil. Tawed or dressed leather is made chiefly from the lighter and more delicate skins of lambs, sheep, goats, and calves. Though there is no little difference between the dressing of chamois leather, alum leather, Hungary leather, morocco leather, parchment, and tanning, yet the skins which pass through the hands of the several workmen ought to be, for the most part, at least, washed clean from blood and impurities in running water; set to drain, worked with the hands, or pounded with wooden pestles, in vats; put into the pit filled with water, in which quicklime is dissolved, in order to loosen the hair; and passed through a variety of other processes, in order to render them fit for any subsequent operation of tanning or dye- ing, and chamoising. In this state the skins are called joeZfs. If the pelts are to be tawed they are put into a solution of alum and salt in warm water, in the proportion of about 3 lbs. of alum and 4 lbs. of salt to every 120 middle- sized skins, and worked about therein till they have absorbed a sufficient quantity. They are then taken out, washed in water, then put into a vat of bran and water, and allowed to ferment for a time, until much of the alum and salt is got out, and the thickening caused by them is, for the most part, reduced. They are now stretched on hooks in a lofty room, with a stove in the middle, and remain there till fully dry. After this, to give them a glossy finish, they are again soaked in water, to ex- tract more of the salt, and then put into a pail containing the yolk of eggs beaten up with water. Here they are trodden for a long time, by which means they imbibe the substance of the egg. After this they are dried, and finished by glossing with a warm iron. Tawing, there- fore, appears to consist in the leather's imbibing something from the alum and salt, possibly alumine, which is certainly never again ex- tracted by the subsequent washings &c. Chamoised leather is generally sheep or doe- skin, prepared in the way mentioned for alum and tawed leather, dyed if necessary, and then finished in linseed oil. This forms the common coach leather, breeches leather, &c., and is the only kind which, when dyed, will bear washing without the colour l"^ing materi- ally injured. Dyed leather. The colour* given to leather are various, sometimes dependent upon mere fancy, and sometimes upon real utility. The materials employed are also various, according to the country in which the process takes place. For English morocco leather the skin is taken after it is cleaned, and worked, as already de>