[ 404 ] ROS RUB mary, which is colourless, and has the odour of the plant. Its specific gravity is 0-911. When kept in imperfectly stopped bottles it deposits stearoptine equal to one-tenth of the bulk of the oil. This oil is much employed in perfumery for the manufacture of toilet waters and scents, among which it is an ingredient in Hungary- water and eau de Cologne ; and it is said posi- tively to have the property of encouraging the growth of the hair and curing baldness. The llesh of sheep that browse upon the plant con- tracts an, excellent flavour, and the celebrated white honey of Narbonne owes its reputation to being collected from the flowers of rosemary. Indeed, De Candolle asserts that when, by any accident, the flowering of the rosemary ia checked, the honey harvest of Narbonne is a failure. ROSEMARY VINEGAR. This is made in the same manner as lavender vinegar. ROSES, BATTER OF. Make a batter with rich cream, sweeten and season with orange or rose water, and let the paste be beaten very smooth. Have clarified butter hot in a frying- pan, and dip in the mould to heat; take it out, fill it with batter, and return it into the pan. When done enough give the mould a stroke, and it will fall out, and proceed to form the whole in the same way. Any shape, flavour, or colour may be given. ROSES, CONSERVE OF. BoiUlb.of sugar to fort souffle; pour into this syrup the best double-distilled rose water, boil it again to grande peiie, mix with it a little prepared cochineal or carmine to colour it, and pour your conserve into moulds. ROSES IN CREAM. Put a quart of rich cream into a saucepan, set it on the fire, and when it boils take it off; put in a handful of fresli rose leaves, leave them to infuse, and keep them covered for two hours; then, if the cream be cold, strain and pour it on the yolks of nine eggs, beat them up well, add f lb. of powder sugar, set it on a slow fire, and stir it con- stantly till it thickens, taking care that it does not boil; run it through a bolter, and when cold cover it with a little carmine dissolved in clarified sugar; put it into a sarbotiere, and freeze as usual. See Ice : To Pbepaee. ROSES, HONEY OF. Infuse 4 ozs. of the dried buds of red roses for six hours in a little distilled boiling water, mix 5 lbs. of clarified honey into the strained liquor, and boil it to a syrup. Violets, gillyflowers, &c., are done in the same way. ROSEWOOD is produced by a tree found in the Brazilian province of Goyaz, called Physocalymna floribunda. Furniture made of it is very heavy, being usually French polished. See French Polish. When very dirty it is necessary to wash it, which is done with a .flannel dipped in warm beer, not too hot, followed quickly with a linen cloth to rub it dry. If there are any brass or lackered ornaments, such as the handles of sideboards, drawers, cellarets, &c., they should be first cleaned, getting off the fly-stains with a flannel dipped in soap and water, and then polishing with plate powder; but if the lacker is worn off, a little finely powdered brickdust and leather. Great care must be taken not to rub the dust into the wood. It is always best to remove the article to be cleaned into the centre of the room, so as to have a passage all round it; and supposing it to be washed as directed above (which need only be done occasionally), let the stains be removed by rubbing with, not across, the grain a smooth cork; then apply your polish with a woollen cloth, and rub it in immediately with another. If the paste be very stiff it will be necessary to lay it on with a brush. Whatever you apply, use but little at a time, and rub it in well. ROSSOLIS. Take f lb. of picked orange flowers, 1 lb. of musk roses, 6 drachms of cinnamon, and two cloves, both bruised; put them into a cucurbite, with three gallons of pure water. On distilling this it will yield a gallon and a half, in which dissolve 12 lbs. of fine sugar broken up ; add to it an equal quantity of spirit of jasmine, colour it crimson with cochineal, filter, and bottle it. ROTTEN-STONE. A silicious mineral ob- tained from the mines of Derbyshire: it is of an ash-brown colour, moderately hard, and stains the fingers. This mineral is used by lapidaries and other mechanics for grinding, polishing, and sometimes for cutting stones, and for polishing metals. ROUGE. See Cosmetics. ROUGE, JEWELLERS'. See Platp. POWDEES. ROUX. Put 1 lb. of butter into a sauce- pan, shake it about till dissolved, and add a sufficient quantity of sifted flour to make it of the consistence of bouilli; then set it over a fierce stove, and stir till it begins to colour, when make a good fire of cinders, place the roux on it, and let it stand to in- crease the colour: it ought to be of a clear light brown. Set it by, and use it as occasion may require. ROUX, WHITE. Prepare your butter and flour as above, and place it in a moderately heated stove, stirring it constantly till vei-y hot. Be careful that it does not take colour at all, for the whiter it is the more desirable. RUBEFACIENTS are such applications aa mustard poultice and spirit of hartshorn, to