PIE [ 323 ] PIG strong veal or beef braise ; egg the edge of tbe pie round, and lay on a good thick cover, joining it well to the edge, that being a great support to the pie ; then neatly trim it all round ; form on the top of the crust a star of leaves, with a hole in the centre; on the sides festoons, leaves, or gar- lands, according to your own taste ; egg it lightly over, and bake it in a hot, regularly heated oven. A small-sized pie will take about four hours' baking, a larger pie accordingly. Take care, on first putting it in, that it does not catch or burn, which it is apt to do, and in that case have plenty of paper to lay over it. Before the pie is quite done set on some good consomme or veal braise, and let it boil till it becomes very strong; pour it into the pie as soon as it is taken out of the oven, and set it to cool. If the nexjt day it should appear to have taken all the gravy, more must be added. It had better stand three or four days before it is served. You may, for a change, take off the cover, and in its place sprinkle some clear savoury jelly on the top. This is a good dish for the side table. PIE, RAISED (to be Served Hot). Make a stiff paste as directed for raised pies [see Paste), which mix with warm water ; when thoroughly mixed and blended together roll it out tolerably thin, cut a piece out for the bottom, and two for the sides, according to the shape of your dish ; egg the edges of the part you intend to join, and press them well together, so that the joining may not be perceptible ; shape it, and garnish it with leaves or festoons, according to your own taste ; fill it nearly to the top with bran, egg it, and let it be baked in a moderate oven. When done a fine light colour turn out the bran, and set it ready for what you intend to put in, which may be either cutlets or mutton stewed with vegetables, partridges farced with a brown sauce, chicken cut up with a ragout in a brown sauce, stewed carp or eels, &c. PIE PETHEVIERS. Take eight dozen of iarks, and having picked and singed them, split them open, take out the intestines, which (except the gizzards) mix with bread crumbs and 2 lbs. of the following farce :—Take equal quantities of fillets of veal and bacon, mince them, and season them with pepper, salt, and spices ; then pound them and the intestines, adding occasionally small quantities of jelly to keep it of a proper consistence, and fill the bodies of the larlts with it. Take about 2 lbs. of paste for raised crusts ; raise it as usual, making it either square or round as you may think proper; lay a bed of farce at the bottom of it, on which place the larks, well seasoned, and each wrapped in a thin slice of bacon ; put some butter worked with flour over ; cover the whole with slices of bacon, two bay leaves, and the top crust; fix the edges together, ornamenting the to^ and sides according to your taste ; dorez, and bake it for two hours and a half. Serve it cold. Woodcocks, snipes, or any other small birds, may be used instead of larks. PIE, SQUAB. (See Devonshire Squash Pie.) Take a few good baking apples; pare, core, and slice them ; chop some onions very small; line a deep dish with paste, put in a layer of the apples, and strew a little sugar and some of the chopped onions over them; season them, and lay lean mutton chops, also seasoned, more onions, then the apples, &c., as before, and so oa till the dish is quite full. Cover and bake the pie. PIG, BAKED. Lay your pig in a dish, flour it well all over, then rub it over with butter, butter the dish you lay it in, and put it into the oven. When done enough take it out, and rub it over with a buttered cloth; put it again into the oven till it is dry, then take it out and lay it in a dish; cut it up, take a little veal gravy, and, on removing the fat in the dish it was baked in, there will be some good gravy at the bottom ; put that to the veal gravy, with a small piece of butter rolled in flour; boil it up, put it in a dish in which the pig has been laid, and put the brains, with some sage, into the belly. Some persons like a pig to be brought to the table whole, in which case you are only to put what sauce you like into the dish. PIG, BARBICUED. Scald, &c., a pig of about nine or ten weeks old the same as for roasting; make a stuffing with a few sage leaves, the liver of the pig, and two anchovies boned, washed, and cut extremely small; put them into a mortar, with some bread crumbs, Jib. of butter, a very little Cayenne pepper, and half a pint of Madeira wine; beat them to a paste, and sew it up in the pig; lay it a good distance before a brisk fire, singe it well, put two bottles of Madeira wine into the dripping-pan, and keep basting it all the time it is roasting. When half done put two French rolls into the dripping- pan, and if there is not wine enough in the dripping-pan add more. When the pig is nearly done take the rolls and sauce, and put them into a saucepan, with an anchovy cut small, a bunch of sweet herbs, and the juice of a lemon ; take up the pig, send it to table with an apple in its mouth and a roll on one side, then strain the sauce over it. Some barbicue a pig of six or seven weeks old, stick it all over with blanched almonds, and baste it in the same manner with Madeira wine. PIG, COLLARED. Take a fine young roasting pig, and, as soon as it is killed, dress off the hair and draw it; wash it clean, rip it open from one end to the other, and completely bone it; rub it all over with pepper and salt, a little cloves and mace beaten fine, some sage leaves and sweet herbs chopped fine; then bind it up.