HAM HAM [ 19 1 that may be on the fat; take off also the end bone, cut the knuckle, soak the ham, and cook it as directed for Ham a la Gelee. When sufficiently done untie the napkin and take out the bone ; then tie it again, lay it in a deep dish, and let it cool; trim it, and do it over with raspings. Serve it on a napkin. HAM OMELET. Take a slice of boiled ham, mince it as small as possible, and mix it with a dozen eggs beaten with a little veal gravy. Fry it, keeping it of an equal thickness, in the usual manner. HAM PATTIES. Chop small about 6 ozs. of the lean of veal i-eady dressed, and half the quantity of ham; put them into a stewpan, with 1 oz. of butter rolled in flour, half a gill of cream, the same quantity of veal stock, a little grated nutmeg and lemon-peel, some Cayenne pepper and salt, a spoonful of essence of ham, and lemon juice. Stir the whole over the fire some time, and then make patties as before directed. The white meat of the breasts of chickens or fowls may be substituted for the veal. HAM PIE (I). Bone a fine ham, and trim it properly, taking care to cut off all the yellow fat; soak it accordirjg to its age. and then braise it on slices of beef, 1 lb. of bacon beaten in a mortar, the same quantity of lard and butter, and plenty of sweet herbs, roots, and whole pepper. When about three parts done take it out and let it cool; then make a thick raised crust, put the ham into it, with all the braise except the beef and herbs, and a large glass of brandy; bake it for an hour, and serve it cool. HAM PIE (a). Having soaked and boiled a small ham, and taken out the bone, trim the ham nicely so as to make it a good shape, and of the bone and trimmings make a rich gravy by stewing tbem in a saucepan with a little water, carefully skimming off the fat. Make a sufficient quantity of forcemeat out of cold roast chicken or veal, minced suet, grated bread crumbs, butter, pepper, chopped sweet marjoram or tarragon, and grated lemon-peel, adding the lemon juice and some beaten egg. Mix the ingredients thoroughly. You may add some chopped oysters. Having made a standing crust, allowing to -2 lbs. of flour ^ lb. of butter and 1 lb. of minced suet, wetted to a paste with boiling water, put in the ham, moistening it with gravy, and fill in all the vacancies with the forcemeat, having a layer of forcemeat at the top and bottom ; then put on the lid, pinching the edges together so as to close them well; brush the paste all over with beaten yolk of egg, and then put on the ornamental flowers and leaves that have been cut out of the dough. Bake it three or four hours. It may be eaten warm, but is generally preferred cold. It keeps well if carefully secluded from the air. HAM, POTTED (1). Take lib. of cold, boiled, lean ham, and pound it to a fine paste with ^ lb. of the fat or some fresh butter ; season it to your taste with mace, allspice, pepper, and nutmeg, all in powder; press it into potting dishes, pour clarified butter over it, and keep it in a cold place. HAM, POTTED (2). Take some cold ham, slice it, and mince it small, fat and lean together; then pound it in a mortar, seasoning it as you proceed with Cayenne pepper and powdered mace and nutmeg ; then fill with it a large deep pan, and set it in an oven for half an hour. Afterwards pack it down hard in a stone jar, and fill up the jar with lard; cover it closely, and paste a thick paper over the jar. If sufficiently seasoned it will keep well in winter, and is convenient for sandwiches or on the tea-table. A jar of this will be found useful to travellers in remote places. HAM, RAGOUT OF. Toss up a few slices of ham in a saucepan, and make a sauce of red wine, white pepper, a macaroon, cinnamon, and sugar, all pounded. Put the ham to this, squeeze in the juice of an orange, and serve it up. HAM ROASTED WITH MADEIRA. Take a fine Westphalia or Bayonne ham, para and trim it of as round a form as possible, take off the end bone, and remove the rind from the knuckle ; then lay the ham on a gridiron over the fire till you can take it up with ease, soak it if necessary, and put it into a pan, with slices of carrots and onions, thyme, bay leaves, and coriander; pour a bottle of Madeira or Xtres upon it, cover it with a clean cloth, close the pan as tightly as possible, and let it remain twenty-four hours ; then wrap the ham in a very thick paper, fasten it with paste so that it may be completely inclosed, tie it on a spiit, and put it to roast for three hours; then make a small hole in the paper, and pour in, by means of a funnel, the Madeira wine; paste paper over the hole, and let it roast another hour. When done take off the paper carefully, so that none of the gravy may escape, mix it with some reduced Espagnole, glaze the ham, and serve it. HAM ROLL. Make a farce with some ham fat and sweet herbs chopped very finely, and cut several thin slices of ready-boiled or roasted Westphalia ham. Have ready some French-roll dough, take a piece of it, flatten it with your hand to the size you want it, lay a slice of ham on it so as to cover it, spread some farce over the ham, and on that a piece of dough flattened as before; then ham, farce, and dough again, and so on alternately till the roll is as large as you wish it to be; cover the whole with dough, and bake it in a moderate oven. Do not cut it till cold. HAM SAUCE. When a ham is almost done