TEL [ 576 ] ZE S Half the contents of each paper are called half a yeast powder. Yeast powders of themselves have not suffi- cient power to raise bread or cakes so as to make them light enough to be wholesome. They should be only employed when real yeast or eggs are to be used; then they add greatly to the lightness of the cake. They are also an improvement to batter puddings. They must always be added at the last. To use them, dissolve first the soda in a wine- glassful and a half of milk or lukewarm water, and when thoroughly melted stir it into the batter; then melt in another cup the acid, with a similar quantity of milk or water, and stir in at the last. These powders entirely destroy the flavour of lemon or orange juice; but they will convert sour milk into sweet. A yeast powder added to buckwheat batter that has already been raised by the real yeast will render it sur- passingly light. One blue and one white powder will suffice for two quarts of batter. YELLOW FEVER. In the West Indies, and in other tropical situations, also in the wanner regions of America, together with symp- toms somewhat resembling those of typhus fever, there is, in urgent cases, commonly on the third day, a yellow tinge about the eyes, temples, and mouth. This, which is attended with black vomiting, gradually extends over the whole body. The inhabitants of the colder re- gions, on their arrival, unaccustomed to the climate, are those whom the affection more peculiarly attacks. Yellow fever is derived from causes corre- spondent with those of the remittent kind. The danger is extreme w4ien the yellow tinge com- mences. This growing of a deeper shade, the speech faltering, trembling, livid spots on the skin, blood flowing from various parts of the body, starting of the tendons, hiccups, and coldness of the extremities, are forerunners of a fatal termination. Though the liver has been occasionally found much diminished, and the gall-bladder to con- tain but a small portion of bile, the appearances on dissection, with the exception of glandular tumours and carbuncles, are, in general, similar to those of malignant fevers. YELLOW GLAZE. Make a glaze with J lb. of fine sugar in powder, and the white of an egg, to which add by degrees as much lemon juice as may be necessary when sufficiently beaten up, and the longer it is beaten the whiter it will be; add to it a small quantity of the infusion of safi'ron strained, and the yellow rinds of one or two lemons grated on a piece of sugar, scraped off, and powdered : take care, however, not to put too much of the latter, lest the glaze should be bitter. YORKSHIRE PUDDING. Mix four spoonsful of flour with a pint of milk and one egg well beaten, add a spoonful of salt and a little ginger grated, butter the pan, and put in the mixture. When browned by baking under the meat turn the other side upwards, that it may be browned also. It should be made in a square pan, and served to table cut in pieces, neatly arranged upon a dish. The richness of the pudding is increased according to the number of eggs you may choose to put in. YORKSHIRE CAKES. See Cakes, Yobk- SHIKE. z. ZEST, a term of art used by confectioners, is the peel of oranges or citron, cut from top to bottom in small slips, or zests, as thin as possible. THE EKD.