PAS PAS t 301 I less fancy are subject to slow emotions of the mind. Indolent persons, whose sensations are dull, are less passionate than those who combine acute feelings and a lively imagination with a clear understanding. The greatest minds are generally the most impassioned. All passions, of whatever kind, if they rise to a high and violent degree, are of a dangerous tendency: bodily disease, nay, death itself, may be their concomitant effects. Fatal apoplexies have frequently followed sudden terrors. Cata- lepsy and epileptic fits sometimes accompany immoderate affliction or distressing anxiety. Hypochondriasis, hysterics, and habitual dejec- tion may, indeed, arise from a variety of physical causes ; but they are as frequently generated by : the passions or sufferings of the mind alone in individuals otherwise healthy. ; Joy is that state of the mind in which it feels extraordinary pleasure—in which it enjoys a high degree of contentment and happiness. The ^activity of the whole machine is enlivened by it; tbe eyes sparkle; the action of the heart and arteries is increased, the circulation of all the fluids is more vigorous and uniform ; it facilitates the cure of diseases in general, and forwards convalescence. The different degrees of this affection are gaiety, cheerfulness, mirth, exulta- tion, rapture, and ecstasy. Habitual joy and serenity, arising from the perfection, rectitude, and due subordination of our faculties, and their lively exercise on objects agreeable to them, constitute mental or rational happiness. * Evacuations which are moderate, a proper state of perspiration, and all food of an aperient quality and easy digestion, may be considered as icontributing to a joyful state of mind. A pure, •dry air, and everything that invigorates the func- tions of the body, on the well-being of which the serenity of mind greatly depends, has a tendency to obviate stagnations. Joy also is more salu- tary when combined with other moderate affec- tions, and the various bodily and mental exer- tions are then successfully performed. A moderate degree of joy removes the noxious particles of the body, and in this respect is equal, nay, superior in salubrity to bodily exer- cise ; but excess and too long duration of this passion attenuate and carry away not only the superfluous, but likewise many useful fluids, and more than the natural functions can restore. Hence the too violent motion and dissipation of humours are attended with relaxation and heaviness; and sleep also is prevented, which alone can re-invigorate the nerves that have suffered from too great tension. On this account the celebrated Sanctorius dissuades persons from gambling who cannot control their passions, because the joy which accompanies their success is followed by sleepless nights and great ab straction of perspirable matter. Sudden and excessive joy may prove extremely hurtful, on account of the great waste of energy and the lively vibration of the nerves, whioh are the more noxious after long rest. Nay, it may become dangerous by causing expansion or laceration of the vessels, spitting of blood, fevers, deprivation of understanding, swooning, and even sudden death. If we have anticipated any joyful event the body is gradually prepared to undergo the emotions connected with it. For this reason we ought to fortify ourselves with the neces- sary share of firmness to meet joyful as well as disastrous things. Laughter is sometimes the eff'ect or conse- quence of joy, and it frequently arises from a sudden disappointment of the mind, when directed to an object which, instead of being serious and important, terminates unexpectedly in insignificance. Within the bounds of modera- tion, laughter is a salutary emotion ; for, as a deep inspiration of air takes place, which is succeeded by a short and frequently repeated expiration, the lungs are filled with a great quantity of blood, and gradually emptied, so that its circulation through the lungs is thus beneficially promoted. It manifests a similar effect on the organs of digestion. Pains in the stomach, colics, and several complaints that could not be relieved by other means, have been frequently removed by this. In many cases, ■where it is purposely raised, laughter is of excellent service, as a remedy which agitates and enlivens the whole frame. Experience also furnishes us with many remarkable instances in which obstinate ulcers of the lungs and the liver, that had resisted every effort of medicine, were happily opened and cured by a fit of laughter artificially excited. Hope is the anticipation of joy, or the pre- sentiment of an expected good. It is attended with all the favourable effects of a fortunate event, without possessing any of its physical disadvantages, because the expectation of happi- ness does not affect us so excessively as its enjoyment. Besides, it is not liable to those interruptions from which no human pleasure is exempt; it is employed principally with ideal or imaginary objects, and generally keeps within the bounds of moderation. Lastly, the sense of happiness contained in hope far exceeds the satis- faction received from immediate enjoyment, and consequently it has a more beneficial influence on health than good fortune realised. Although hope is, in itself, merely ideal, and presents its flattering and embellished images to the fancy in a borrowed light, yet it is, nevertheless, the only genuine source of human happiness. Hope, therefore, is the most favourable state of mind to health, and has frequently preserved the