[ 16 ] HAL HAl rub the bristles in washing the brushes, but merely move the brush to and fro in the water until it is clean ; then rinse it in cold water, shake out as much of the water as you can by waving the brush, and then hang it up to dry. HAIR DYE. The best is known to French hair-dressers as pommade de jeunnesse, and is very effective in changing grey hairs to a dark colour. It is made by mixing thoroughly a small quantity of pearl-white (subnitrate of bismuth) with any common pomatum, and brush- ing a little daily into the hair. It is said to make the hair dark, and certainly would do no harm. Dr. Willich, who was opposed to all cosmetic applications to the hair, says that the hair will assume a darker colour by having it cut closely, and passing a leaden comb through it every morning and evening. HAIR POWDER, a barbaric compound, still applied sometimes to the heads of livery servants, and to prevent chafing in infants, is nothing but starch ground very finely and sifted. To give it a perfume, and form what is called by perfumers violet hair powder, mix together powdered orris root, 2 ozs. ; essence of hergamot, 1-Joz.; powdered musk, 1 grain. Rub these thoroughly together, and then do the same after adding 3 lbs. of powdered starch. HAIR, STIFFENING. (See Bandeline.) The following is employed by some London perfumers :—Finest picked gum tragacanth re- duced to a coarse powder, 1 oz.; rose water, 1 pint. Put them into a wide-mouthed vessel, and shake them together daily for two or three days; then strain with gentle pressure through fine linen or cambric. If required to be coloured infuse cochineal in the water employed before making the mucilage. Another form is —linseed (not bruised), a tea-spoonful; water, ^ pint. Boil for five minutes, and strain. Pommade Collante for False Curls. Melt together in an earthen pipkin 24 ozs. of fine Burgundy pitch and 8 ozs. of white wax, and add 1 oz. of pomatum. Remove from the fire, and add 4 ozs. of brandy or other spirit; replace it on the fire till it boils slightly, then strain through linen, adding hergamot or other perfume, and cast it into moulds. HAIR, SUPERFLUOUS. See Depilatory. HAKE : To Dress. Hake is cooked after the manner of cod, to which it is very inferior. HALIBUT. The best mode of preparing this fish is to fillet it, and if for eating imme- diately, to dredge it with flour, or else cover it with bread crumbs, after anointing it with a little melted butter or fat, or yolk of egg, and fry it of a light brown. It requires very little dressing, and is done almost immediately. It would be flavom-less if too much done. If any fillets are to ue kept cold let them be fried with- out flour or bread crumbs. The cold fillets are excellent when dressed in any of the modes directed for Cold Soles and Mackerel. Cold halibut may likewise form a very agreeable dish by the following process :—Cut potatoes into thin slices, and boil them very rapidly in salted water. When thoroughly done drain the water from them, and when they are quite dry mash them to a paste. Drain also and mash your cold halibut, which mix with the mashed potatoes, together with some chopped parsley, some pepper and salt, and some clarified butter. When tbe whole is incorporated and worked into a paste make it into small cakes, and fry these brown in clarified fat or butter; or else put the paste, made without parsley, into a buttered pan or baking dish, and set it on a stand close before the fire until the upper surface of it is brown. Halibut partakes somewhat of the flavour of the turbot, and grows to an enormous size, being sometimes caught weighing more than ] cwt. ; the best size is, however, from 20 lbs. to 40 lbs., as if much larger it is coarse. The most esteemed parts are the flakes over the fins and the pickings about the head; but on account of its great bulk it is commonly cut up and sold in collops, or in pieces of a few pounds weight, at a very reasonable rate. A small one cut in thin slices and crimped is very good eating. HALIBUT : To Boil. Take a small halibut, or what you require from a large fish ; put it into a fish kettle with the back of the fish undermost, and cover it with cold water, in which a handful of salt and a piece of saltpetre the size of a hazel nut have been dissolved. When it begins to boil skim it carefully, and then let it just simmer till it is done. It will require nearly half an hour to boil 4 lbs. of fish. Drain it, and garnish with horse- radish or parsley. Egg sauce or plain melted butter is served with it. HALIBUT : To Collop. Cut the fish into nice cutlets of about an inch thick, and fry them ; then put them into a broth made of the bones, four onions, a stick of celery, and a bundle of sweet herbs, boiled together for half an hour. Strain this broth, thicken it, and stew the fish for half an hour, adding salt, pepper, a gi'ating of nutmeg, pounded mace, a spoonful of soy or fish sauce, and half that quantity of lemon juice, with a little shred lemon-peel. Or, the collops may be fried in batter, or with beaten eggs and crumbs of bread. Or, if made into cutlets, cut quite thin, and fried in sweet oil, without egg and bread crumbs, they are very good if eaten with sauce d la Tartare. HALIBUT, STEWED. Cut the fish into