[ 287 ] OYS as not to cut them, except in dividing the gristly part which unites them to the shell; pound them in a mortar, and add salt in the proportion of 2 drachms to twelve oysters. After pounding them rub them through the back of a hair sieve, then return them into the mortar, with as much flour that has been com- pletely dried as will make them into a paste; work the whole about several times, and then flour and roll it out to the thickness of half a crown; divide it into small square pieces, and lay them in a Dutch oven, where they may dry without being burnt; turn them every half hour, and when they begin to dry crumble and pound them to a powder, which, after sift- ing, must be put into bottles, and sealed care- fully for use. To make half a pint of sauce put 1 oz. of butter into a stewpan, with 3 drachms of powder and six table-spoonsful of milk; set it on a slow fire, keep stirring until it boils, and season it with salt. Tliis is an excellent sauce for boiled fowls or rump steaks, and when sprinkled on bread and butter makes a good sandwich. It will keep a long time when closely corked. OYSTER SAUCE. Take three or four dozen plump and juicy native oysters, and im- mediately they are out of the shell put them into a stewpan. Save the liquor, strain it, and put it in with them. When they begin to boil take them off, and pour them into a sieve over a clean basin ; then wash the pan with hot water, and put therein the strained liquor, with about the same quantity of milk, and 2^ ozs. of butter which has been rubbed well with a table-spoonful of flour; give the whole a boil up, pour it through a sieve into a basin, and then return it into the saucepan. Next take off the heads of the oysters, and put in only the soft part of them, and if large halve them, and set them by the side of the fire to keep hot; but do not let them boil, for that will make them hard. If there is not enough liquor add a little melted butter, cream, or milk ; beat up with the yolk of an egg, but do not add it till the sauce is done. Its flavour will be improved by powdering the soft part of six raw oysters, then rubbing them through a hair sieve, after which stirring the same well up with the rest. A few grains of Cayenne may be added to heighten it. OYSTER SAUCE FOR BEEF STEAKS. Blanch a pint of oysters, and preserve their liquor; then wash and beard them, and put their liquor into a stewpan, with India soy and catsup, a small quantity of each, a gill of cullis, and ^ lb. of fresh butter; set them over a fire, and when they nearly boil thicken with flour and water. Season according to taste with a little Cayenne pepper, salt, and lemon juice. Strain it to the oysters, and stew them gently five minutes. OYSTER SAUSAGES. Prepare in the same proportions as for Oyster Powder, pound and fill into eel-skins, hog-puddings, or roll them and glaze, or crumb them with grated ham, bacon, Parmesan or any other cheese, with a little sugar, or nutmeg, or cloves for the sweet, with the dried fruits. These are handsome supper or breakfast dishes ; but all such sausages look better in balls, or a little flattened, and served hot in a napkin. Fry oysters a fine light brown, or dip them in egg and crumbs, or in batter. These make an elegant garnishing mixed with balls, or nice second-course dishes served on parsley or in a napkin. OYSTER SOUP. Prepare a good gravy of skate and eels, or any other fish, putting I lb. of each to a quart of water, and stewing it down to half the quantity, after which it must be strained off. Then take a quarter of a peck of oysters, trim off the beards, and pound the horny parts in a marble mortar, with twelve yolks of eggs boiled hard, moistening them in the doing with some of the gravy. Put the rest of the gravy, with the soft part of the oysters in it, over the fire, with a blade of mace. When it boils stir in the pounded ingredients, let the whole boil till it is of a moderate thickness ; season it with pepper and salt, and serve it up. OYSTER TOAST. Take one dozen of large oysters and two anchovies, and chop them together , put in a bit of butter and some oyster liquor, and let them stew gently till the butter is melted; then cut some slices from a roll, and fry them in butter of a nice brown, but not hard ; lay the oysters on the fried bread, and serve. OYSTERS. The common Colchester and Feversham oysters are brought to market on the 5th of August. The Milton, or, as they are commonly called, the melting natives, do not come in until the beginning of October, con- tinue in season till the 12th of May, and approach the meridian of their perfection about Christmas. Some gormands think that oysters are not best when quite fresh from their beds, and that their flavour is too brackish and harsh, and is much ameliorated by giving them a feed. To feed oysters. Cover them with clean water, with a pint of salt to about two gallons of water (nothing else—no oatmeal, flour, nor any other trumpery): this will cleanse them from the mud, sand, &c., of the bed. After they have lain in this twelve hours change it for fresh salt and water, and in twelve hours more they will be in prime order for the mouth, and remain so two or three days. At the time of high water you may see them open their shells,