[ 4Q7 3 SEA SEA vomiting : it is occasioned by the irregular motion of the vessel. The sea-sickness generally attacks persons unaccustomed to voyages on the ocean, particu- larly if they embark in a small vessel which is not deeply laden. On the other hand, passen- gers in very large ships are less violently affected, as the waves make only a slight impression on the latter. People advanced in years, and also children (especially if they be of a dark com- plexion), are less liable to this complaint than those who are in the prime of life, and possess a fair skin. Its duration is very unequal; in general, only for one or two days, though it sometimes continues for weeks or months, and even during the whole voyage, in which latter case it induces headache, fever, intense thirst, a quick pulse, and a total inability to retain either solid or liquid food on the stomach— affections that are always very difficult to re- move. But though sea-sickness be thus irksome and distressing to the patient during its continuance, it has often proved highly beneficial in numerous diseases, particularly in asthmatic and pulmo- nary cases. "Very few instances indeed have oc- curred in which fatal consequences have resulted from this temporary complaint. Among the numerous remedies devised with a view to alleviate this debilitating indisposition, one or two draughts of sea water have been found very serviceable; for, though extremely disgusting^ that fluid will clear the first passages if they be foul or oppressed, and thus afford effectual relief when the nausea and sickness which it necessarily occasions have abated. The frequent application of ether to the temples and nostrils, together with a tea-spoonful of that liquor diluted in a glass of water, and occa- sionally taken, has likewise been attended with good effects. In order to mitigate, and, if possible, to pre- vent the violence of that complaint, it has farther been recommended never to embark immediately after meals, and when on ship- board to partake very moderately of food, which ought to consist of bread and fresh meat (at least as long as this article can be procured), to be eaten in a cold state, with the addition of mustard or pepper. The drink should like- wise be sparingly but frequently taken, and ought to consist of lemonade, tart wines mixed with Seltzer water, and fermented with pounded sugar, or other liquors containing a large portion of fixed air. Passengers at sea should wear flaimel shirts and drawers, together with trousers and other warm clothing, because these simple expedients have frequently prevented sickness, vomiting, and the numerous symptoms accompanying such convulsive efforts. They ought likewise to swallow occasionally a few drops of the spirit of vitriolic ether, commonly called the dulcified spirit of vitriol, either on lump sugar or mixed with peppermint water; and, if they be troubled with a slight diarrhoea, it will be proper to administer a few grains of rhubarb, or, which is preferable if it can be effected, a clyster, con- sisting of Venice soap dissolved in salt water. Farther, they should as long as possible remain on deck, even during rainy and stormy weather, because the breeze arising from the sea is far more salubrious than the confined and stagnant air of the cabin. No passengers, however, ought to watch the motion of the waves, par- ticularly when the element is violently agitated by tempests; nor should they indulge in sloth or inactivity, but take proper and frequent exercise, such as working at the pump, &c., for indolence only tends to aggravate the disorder. Lastly, whatever may disturb or enervate the mind, such as reading, intense study, or medita- tion on gloomy subjects, must be purposely avoided, and no opportunity neglected of par- ticipating in innocent mirth and mental relaxa- tion. It is very certain that one of the best pre- ventives of sea-sickness is a belt buckled veiy tightly over the region of the stomach and upper bowels. Eemaining mostly in a recumbent posi- tion during the first two or three days of a long^ voyage is also a judicious precaution. SEA WATER is often required for bathing by persons not in its vicinity, and for those so situated we give the following recipe for making it —Common salt, 1227 grains ; chloride of magnesium (dry), 237 grains; chloride of cal- cium (dry), 5 7 grains; sulphate of soda (Glauber's salt), 213 grains ; iodide of potassium, 4 grains; water, 1 gallon. If all the salts are not at com- mand, 4 ozs. of common salt and i oz. of Glauber's salt may be dissolved in each gallon of water. SEALING - WAX. Red Sealing - "Wax. Take of camphor 8 ozs. ; shellac, 8 lbs. ; Venice turpentine, 4 lbs.; vermilion, 2^ lbs. Pissolve the camphor in the turpeutme in a suitable vessel over a slow fire, then add the shellac, and, when that has become a uniform and smooth mass by a moderate ap- plication of heat, the vei'milion, which should be passed through a hair sieve held over the melted mass, in order that it may not get into clots. When the whole is well incorpo- rated it wOl be ready to form into sticks of whatever size may be desired. To do this the soft wax is weighed out, rolled with a piece of mahogany on a smooth mahogany table to the proper length, and then flattened by mere pressure. To make it shine a charcoal firo