QUI [ 375 ] QUI and a half of brandy, three quarts of the juice of quinces, 3 lbs. of crushed sugar, 1 drachm of cinnamon, and the same of cloves, both bruised. Proceed as follows:—Put the spice into the brandy, and leave it; scrape the quinces, and let the scrapings lie twenty-four hours to ferment. After that time put them in a close linen cloth, and press out the juice by means of a wine-press; add this juice to the spiced brandy, and leave it for three weeks or a month; then draw it off, dissolve the sugar, filter, and put it to the ratafia. Coriander or mace, or both, may be added if approved. QUINCE SEEDS. /See Bandeline. QUINCE TART. Take some preserved quinces ; make a syrup with some sugar and water, of which and the preserve take an equal weight, and put it into a preserving-pan; boil, skim, and then put in the fruit. When tole- rably clear lay the quinces in a tart dish, with puff paste as usual; cover and bake it. As soon as it is done raise the top gently, pour in the syrup, ice it, and serve. QUINCES : To Pickle. Pare and cut half a dozen quinces into small pieces, and put them, with a gallon of water and 2 lbs. of honey, into a large saucepan; mix them together well, set them on a slow fire for half an hour, and strain the liquor into a jar. When quite cold wipe the quinces perfectly dry, put them into the jar, and cover them very closely. QUINCES, COMPOTE OF. Take six quinces, cut them in halves, and core them ; scald and pare them neatly. Put some clear syrup into a preserving-pan, with the juice of a lemon; when hot add the quinces, and give them a boil together; drain the fruit, arrange it in the compotier, leave the syrup to thicken a little, and pour it over the quinces. QUINCES, SYRUP OF. Pare and scrape some very ripe quinces into a linen cloth ; press out the juice, which put in a veiy warm place, or where it is exposed to the sun, until all the fecula falls to the bottom ; then strain it well, and for every J lb. of juice take 1 lb. of sugar ; mix them together, and boil the whole to perle; take it off, and when the syrup is nearly cold it may be bottled. Take care to keep the bottles well corked. QUINCES IN WHITE JELLY. Take as many quinces as you may require; choose them sound: pare, quarter, and core them, strewing powder sugar as you do them, and also filling up the holes with sugar; throw in a small quantity of water, and set them on a fierce fire to boil quickly. As soon as the quinces are tender, and the syrup clear, add some apple jelly, give the whole one boil, and then pour it into glasses. When cold drain off the syrup and jeUy, put them into a saucepan, and let them boil as quickly as you can. Just before the jelly is taken off put in a small quantity of musk, or any other ingredient you may wish to flavour the preserve with; then pour in the glasses again over the quinces, and when cold cover them. This may also be coloured red by adding a small quantity of prepared cochineal. In this case the jelly should be red too. QUININE, SULPHATE OF. Dr. Duncan justly observes that this may be truly denomi- nated the quintessence of Peruvian bark, and from this name its action may be readily inferred. It possesses all the medical virtues of the drug, concentrated in a very small volume, which in this instance is an immense advantage, as the inert or offensive principles exist in so large a proportion, that they often prevent the bark being administered in substance in sufficient quantity to produce its curative effects. This is not so remarkably the case in regard to some of the other alkaloids, as, for example, morphia, since select opium produces its full action in a dose already sufficiently small; and hence morphia, or its salts, will never be gene- rally employed. Sulphate of quinia, on the contrary, is already in very general use, and will always continue to be one of the most valuable additions which the practice of medicine has derived from the science of chemistry. It may be used in every case in which Peruvian bark in substance is proper. In some instances its beneficial effects may be particularised. Intermittent fevers, in this country, rarely resist its administration, in doses of 3 to 5 grains every two or three hours during the interval. In very acute cases of rheumatism it has most successfully been given in doses of 5 grains four times a day. It operates as a most powerful sudorific, and generally induces considerable debility. It is used also with success in neuralgia, in hemorrhages, and fluxes. From its extreme bitterness it is seldom exhibited in solution. Most commonly the salt is rubbed up with a little sugar to reduce it to fine powder, and taken as a bolus, mixed up with a little currant jelly; or it is made into a pill mass with crumb of bread and mucilage, or any of the soft extracts. Fi'om its solubility being increased by acids it is very advisable to take, after each dose of sulphate of quinia, a few drops of dilute sulphuric acid in a glass of water, which also serves to wash the bitter taste from the mouth. QUIN'S SAUCE. Mushroom catsup, \ pint; walnut pickle, \ pint; port wine, \ pint; six anchovies and six shallots, both pounded ; soy, a table-spoonful; Cayenne, \ drachm. Simmer together gently for ten m nutes, strain, and bottle. See Sauce, Quin's. ,