[ 531 ] VE A VE A of a threepenny loaf: boil aiid sweeten with sugar two quarts of milk, and pour it over tlie bread. When soaked take a little of the milk, and mix it with six eggs well beaten, and half a nutmeg. Place this with the slices of bread in a dish, with some currants aud veal suet shred You may either bake the pudding in a buttered dish or boil it in a basin. VEAL SWEETBREAD A LA DUCHESSE. Scald it, lard it, and put into the middle a little farce called salpicon, made ^•ith mushrooms, truffles, or fat liver; boil it in good veal stock; reduce the sauce into a glaze, aud serve with a wine, orange, or any other sauce. It is also served with any sort of stewed greens, glazed like a fricandeau. VEAL SWEETBREADS. These are of themselves generally considered very insipid, and are therefore served with a sharp relishing sauce in whatever manner they are dressed, and commonly take their name from the sauce ■with which they are served. Particular care should be taken to braise them till tender and white. VEAL SWEETBREADS, BOUDINS OF The sweetbreads having been scalded, cut them into 23ieces as big as nuts, and mix them with pork and beef chopped small, shred tarragons aud scallions, godiveau, bread boiled in milk, and beaten with yolks of eggs: season the whole with salt, pepper, and spices. Soak some pieces of caul in warm water, soften them, spread them open on the table, and fill with the above-mentioned mixture ; roll them up in whatever shape and size you please, cook them in a Dutch oven, and serve crisp. VEAL SWEETBREADS WITH CHEESE. Fry some onions in a little butter, and then put in the sweetbreads, with half a glass of good stock. Cut some Gruyere cheese into thin slices, lay them on a dish, and pour on them a little veal gravy, previously mixed with the yolks of two eggs ; place the dish over a moderate fire that the cheese may dissolve gradually, and when the gratin is formed pour on it the sweetbreads, with the sauce; brown it with the salamander, and serve very hot. VEAL SWEETBREADS WITH CULLIS. Cut a throat sweetbread and some champignons into bits like farthings ; put two large ladlesful of Allemande and a bit of glaze into a saucepan, and when it boils put in the weetbreads and champignons, some butter, parsley, and lemon juice; give them a boil, and then put the preparation into scallop shells ; cover them with grated Parmesan cheese, and brown them in a Dutch oven. VEAL SWEETBREADS, FRIED. Cut them in lone; slices, and with a feather do them over with yolk of egg; make a seasoning of grated bread, do them over with this, and fry them in butter. Serve with butter sauce with a little catsup mixed in, or a little gravy or lemon sauce. VEAL SWEETBREADS,GLACES. Take the whitest, roundest, and most fleshy sweet- breads ; soak them well in warm water, then blanch them in boiling water, take them out, drain them, and lard them. Lay in a stewpan some rashers of bacon, some slices of veal, carrots, onions, two cloves, and two bay leaves; put in the sweetbreads, with half a spoonful of stock only; cover them with a round piece of buttered paper, and braise them for three quarters of an hour*. Take care they do not take colour. Serve with a puree of endive, or any other article of the same kind. VEAL SWEETBREADS, LARDED. Par- boil two or three sweetbreads, and when they are cold lard them down the middle with little bits of bacon, on each side bits of lemon-peel, and beyond that with a little pickled cucumber cut very small. Stew them gently in cullis or rich gravy, thicken with a little flour, add mush- room powder, Cayenne, salt, and if necessary a little lemon juice. VEAL SWEETBREADS, ROASTED. Trim off the tough part of three hard sweet- breads, blanch them for three minutes in a stewpanful of water with a little salt, then take them out, and put them in a basin of cold water till cool. Have ready an egg beaten up in a dish, some bread crumbs, and clarified butter; run a skewer through the sweetbreads, and fasten them on a spit: egg them all over, shake some bread crumbs over, sprinkle with the clarified butter, and then bread crumbs again ; put them down to roast again for a quarter of an hour, then take them off the skewer, and serve them on a dish over a little butter sauce, mixed with a spoonful of gravy, a small bit of glaze, and a squeeze of lemon juice; let it be hot, but not boiling, and thoroughly mixed before it is served under the sweetbreads. VEAL SWEETBREADS, STEWED. Parboil them, and stew them with white gravy; add cream, flour, nutmeg, butter, salt, and white pepper. VEAL SWEETBREADS WITH SWEET HERBS. Braise them the same as cullis sauce, or much in the same manner; take all sorts of sweet herbs finely chopped, or any one or two in particular; simmer them for some time in good cullis, and serve up the braised sweetbreads either whole or cut in pieces. VEAL A LA VILLAGEOISE. Season some large pieces of veal with pepper, salt, powdered spices, and shallots; cut likewise