[ 409 ] SAL SAG it will be ready. Another method is as follows :— Take a quart of new milk and four Naples biscuits; crumble them, and when the milk boils throw them in; give it another boil, then take it off, grate therein some nutmeg, and sweeten it to your taste; add half a pint of sheriy, stirring it all the time, and sei've it up. SAGO PUDDING. Boil 2 ozs. of sago, with some cinnamon and a bit of lemon-peel, till it is soft and thick ; mix the crumb of a small roll finely grated with a glass of red wine, 4 ozs. of chopped man-ow, the yolks of four eggs well beaten, and sugar according to taste. When the sago is cold add this mixture to it, stir the whole well together, put it in a dish lined with light puff paste, and set it in a moderate oven to bake. When done stick it all over with citron cut in pieces, and almonds blanched and cut in slips. SAL AMMONIAC. See Ammonia, Mu- riate OF. SALAD. Take one or two lettuces, split them in two, and thoroughly wash them; then cut them into small pieces, and intermix them with small salad, celery, and beet-root cut in pieces, some nice young radishes cut in small pieces, sliced cucumber, and an egg boiled hard, cut into pieces and garnished about; then make a sauce with the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, which rub well together in a basin with a wooden spoon, and add a little pepper, salt, and mustard. When these are mixed to a smooth paste put in a few tea-spoonsful of sweet oil, mixing it well between each spoonful; then mix a few tea-spoonsful of vinegar in the same manner. When the sauce is mixed according to these directions it will never require shaking, and will always look like cream. Pour this sauce over the salad, or serve it in a cruet. SALAD MIXTURES. Boil two eggs, and put them in cold water for a few minutes, taking care that the yolks are quite cold and hard; rub them through a sieve with a spoon, and mix them with a table-spoonful of water or fine cream; add thereto two table-spoonsful of oil or melted butter, and when thoroughly incor- porated put in a tea-spoonful of salt or pounded lump sugar, and as much mustard. As soon as these are completely united pour in by degrees three table-spoonsful of vinegar, and rub with the other ingredients till they are blended; then cut up the white of an egg, and garnish with it the top of the salad. The sauce should remain at the bottom of the bowl. All salads require to be thoroughly chewed, otherwise their salu- brious qualities will be lost. SALAD, PARISIAN. Take five very red carrots and as many turnips ; cut all these with a root-cutter into round pieces an inch long, and three-eighths of an inch in diameter; cut some asparagus heads and French beans of the same length, and toss them all up in a little oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, tarragon, chervil, and minced shallot. Cut three large parboiled potatoes and a red beet-root into slices half an inch thick, one wide, and two and a half long; cut these again into long triangles, and place them on a dish alternately; that is, the slices of potato with the point upward, and the beet-root between each, with the point downward. Set them round the dish so as to form a crown six inches in diameter, to give it consistence; pour over the bottom of the dish some aspic jelly, and put it on ice to set it; then take thirty champignons, pierce the centre of each, and in these holes stick asparagus heads, French beans, carrot, or beet-root, all cut into round pieces an inch and a half long; dip the champignons into aspic jelly a little set, and place them alter- nately on the beet-root. When all are done pour your macedoine of carrots, &c., into the crown, mask it lightly with a white magnonaise, in the centre fix a fine lettuce heart, with hearts cut in halves or quarters, and serve your salad. SALAD SAUCE. Pound 1 oz. of scraped horseradish, add thereto ^ oz. of salt, a table- spoonful of made mustard, 4 drachms of shred shallot, ^ drachm of celery seed bruised, and the same quantity of Cayenne. Put to these a pint of burnet or tarragon vinegar, and let it stand in a jar for a week, at the end of which time strain it off for use. SALAD FOR WINTER. Take young tender colewort plants, sorrel, lettuce, endive, celery, parsley, full-grown onions, (which are better to cut and eat with salads in winter than young ones), and season them with salt, cream, and vinegar. Add sugar if approved. SALAMANDER. A plate of iron fixed to a wooden handle. The plate is made red-hot, and is then employed to brown the surface of scalloped oysters and other dishes. SALEP is a substance much used as a nutri- tious food in the East, and is habitually used by the Turks and Persians at their meals. It is a fecula produced by the tubers of Orchis mascula and other allied species. This plant is one of our most abundant British orchids, and ia found in woods, pastures, and by waysides. It is called early orchis, male orchis, and male fool's-stones. It also grows plentifully through- out Europe, Northern Africa, and the East. In Persia the fecula is obtained by washing the roots, and throwing them into boiling water to remove the outer skin; they are then dried, strung on cords, and hung in the sun till they are perfectly free of moisture, and will keep without injury for almost any period : they are sometimes dried in ovens. These bulbs, when thus dried, vary from the size of a cherry-stone