TOM TO A [ 494 ] iTioii, a piece of lemon-peel, and a little sugai" in tliree-fourths of a pint of water for ten minutes ; let it cool, then add to it three eggs well beaten, and three large spoonsful of flour; Leat them well together, then add three more yolks of eggs, and boil the whole over a fire till it almost thickens to a paste. Melt some butter in a frying-pan, drop the mixture in with a tea- spoon, and fry a delicate brown. Sugar may be added if prefei-red. TOAST AND WATER. Take a piece of the upper crust of bread cut about twice the usual thickness for toast, and toast it carefully till it is browned all over, but not at all blackened or burnt; put it in a jug, and immediately pour on as much boiling water as you wish; cover the jug, and let it stand till cold. The fresher made the better. A bit of fresh-pared lemon-peel or dried orange-peel in- fused with the water is a grateful addition, and makes a very pleasant summer drink. It may 1)6 drunk freely without danger ; but cold water just taken from the pump cannot. This is decidedly the best way of making it; but if wanted immediately toast a small piece of white bread till very dry and bi'own, but do not burn it; put it immediately into a jug of cold spring water or distilled water, cover it with a plate, and let it stand a little before you use it. See Invalids, Cookery for. TOASTS, GENOA. Lard a French roll partly with anchovies and partly with ham ; cut tlie roll into slices, lay on each a thin slice of bacon, dip them into batter, and fry them. Drain, and serve with ravigote. TOBACCO is an annual plant, a native of America, from whence it was brought into Europe about the year 1560. It is sometimes cultivated in our gardens, but for general use is imported from Virginia in large quantities. The leaves are about two feet long, of a pale green colour while fresh, and when carefully dried they have a yellowish tint. They have a strong, disagreeable, narcotic smell, and a very acrid burning taste. On the living body, whether taken into the stomach in substance or solution, or into the lungs in the form of smoke, or applied to abraded surfaces, tobacco is capable of producing deleterious effects. It often proves virulently cathartic or emetic, and occasions intolerable cardialgia, anxiety, and vertigo. The system becomes easily habituated to the action of tobacco, and many people use very large quantities of it in several ways as a luxury, without experiencing any other bad effect than what arises from their being unable to rslinquish the habit after it is confirmed. As a medicine it is exhibited in various forms. 1. In substance. When chewed it causes an increased flow of saliva, and sometimes relieves the toothache ; and reduced to powder it pi'oves an excellent eiThine and sternutatory when snuffed up the nostrils. 2. In infusion in water or wine: taken in such small doses as to have little effect on tlie stomach it proves powerfully diuretic, and was employed by Dr. Fowler witii very great success in cases of dropsy and dysuria. An infusion of not more than 30 grains in 12ozs. of boiling water is often used as a clyster, half being given at a time, in obstinate constipation, ileus, and incarcerated hernia ; and it has been recommended in all cases where it is an object to . reduce the vital powers. The infusion is also applied externally for the cure of psora, tinea, and other cutaneous diseases. 3. In the form of smoke it is injected into the anus by means of a bellows of a peculiar construction. By acting as a stimulus to the rectum it sometimes succeeds in I'eviving the vital powers in some kinds of asphyxia, and in evacuating the intestines in cases of obstinate constipation. TOFFY. See Taffet. TOKAY WINE, HOME-MADE. Take fine grapes that are perfectly ripe, pick them carefully from the stalks, omitting all that are blemished, put them into a large hair sieve, and place over a large deep pan or a clean tub : mash the grapes with your hands, squeezing and pressing out all the juice. To every quart of juice allow 1 lb. of sultana I'aisins chopped small, or of bloom raisins seeded and chopped. Let the grape juice and raisins stand twelve days, stirring two or three times every day; then strain the liquor into a cask, but do not stop it closely till after three days ; let it stand eight months, and then bottle it. If it is not clear take out a pint of wine, mix with it ^ oz. of isinglass shaved finely, or 1 oz. of powdered gum arable; set it in a warm place, and when dissolved add 1 oz. of fine chalk. Tins will be sufficient to fine a barrel of wine. Stir it lightly into the rest. Let it stand three or four days, and then bottle it. TOLU. See Balsam of Tolu and Tinc- tures. TOMATO CATSUP. Take tomatoes when fully ripe, bake them in a jar till tender, strain them, and rub them through a sieve. To every pound of juice add a pint of chilli vinegar, 1 oz. of shallots, i oz. of garlic (both sliced), ^ oz. of salt, and } oz. of white pepper finely powdered; boil the whole till every ingredient is soft, and rub it again through a sieve. To eveiy pound add the juice of three lemons, and boil it again to the consistence of cream. ^^beu cold bottle it, put a small quantity of