VAL TAR [ 520 ] putting away the razors, and everything which has been used in its proper place. For wet weather, when his master may come in from riding, the valet should be always pre- pared, by having ready the necessary changes of linen and clothing, and by being himself in waiting to remove the damp clothing, and to prevent its being injured in the drying. I3efore putting damp woollen clothing to the fire it should be rubbed with a sponge, the way of the nap, until the smoothness of the surface is restored. If dried without this precaution, brushing will not be effectual in removing the i"oughness. In preparing for journeys the valet should endeavour to ascertain the probable time of his master's absence that he may be able to provide a sufficiency of linen and other clothing. At the inns he takes charge of these supplies, and, as at home, places everything in readiness for the periods of dressing and undi-essing. Besides this, if his master be unattended by his foot- man, it is his duty to attend to his accommodation generally, as well as in his dressing-room. Whenever his master needs his services he must be at hand ; even at table, if more than ordinary attendance be required, he must be ready to wait. VALETUDINARIANS. In acute diseases, notwithstanding the doctrines to the contrary, rest is absolutely necessai-y; but when sickly people get into a state of convalescence, exer- cise, under a proper system, is essential for their recover}'. They are apt, however, to be alarmed at the pain and inconvenience which often accompany their tirst attempts to take exercise, at least to any extent. They ouglit, therefore, to desist as soon as they begin to find themselves fatigued; but every day they will feel enabled to bear it longer, and the more they persevere the stronger they will become. Gentle exercise and good air afford such sur- prising relief to convalescents, that their friends and medical advisers ought to insist on a trial being made, disregarding all objections to the con- trary, which the languid state of their mind and body may occasion. Exercise in a cot or ham- mock, when the patient is exceedingly weak, by swinging it from side to side, will afford an excellent substitute when other means are not attainable. When invalids return from exer- cising, should they find themselves chilled by the cold air, they ought, instead of warming themselves by the fire, to sit down, well clothed, in a remote part of the room until their feelings are gradually reconciled to the temperature of the place they are in. - By adopting this pre- caution all the hazard of rushing from one extreme to another may be avoided. Not a day should be allowed to pass without taking a certain degree of exercise, accommo- dated to individual strengtli. And as few per- sons, more especially invalids, can long enjoy health under a state of indolence, the latter, wh(!n confined at home by bad weather, should adopt some kind of active domestic exercise like that of shuttlecock, or any similar amuse- ment, several times in a well-ventilated room, taking care, however, to avoid the draught of air. This will be found a more salutary mode of warming the body than by the heat of fires. VANILLA CREAM. Take 2 drachms of vanilla, two quarts of milk, the yolks of three eggs, 5 ozs. of sugar, and a pint of cream ; beat up the yolks well with the milk, and then add the other ingredients; set the whole on a moderate fire, and stir it with a wooden spoon till the cream will adhere to it; then strain and serve it cold. See Cream, Vani:,la. VANILLA CREAM, WHIPPED. Put a pinch of gum dragon into a pint of cream, add a small quantity of orange-flower water, powder sugar to the taste, and a little milk in which some vanilla has been boiled, and then strained ; whip these ingredients to a whisk nntil the whole is sufficiently frothed, then lay it carefully on a dish in a pyramidal form, and serve it. VANILLA ICE. Whisk the whites of twelve eggs to a froth in a preserving-pan, and pour on them the yolks of eight eggs, and 1 lb. of sifted sugar; whip the whole well with a wiiisk, and pour in by degrees two quarts of boiling ci'eam ; continue to whip it for some little time, and then put it on the fire, with i oz. of vanilla, bruised, still whipping. When it has boiled up three or four times strain it, and freeze as usual. See Ioe : To Pr;EPARE. VANILLA STICKS. Take some march- pane paste, I lb. of chocolate, and the same of vanilla; mix these well into a paste, and then form it into sticks like the vanilla in its original form ; lay them on a sheet of paper, and bake in a slow oven. VARNISH. [See Amber Varnish, Copal, French Polish, Furniture (Cleaning), and Lackering.) The following are some of the most approved forms for varnish :— Black Japan Varnish for Leather. Take boiled linseed oil, 1 pint; burnt umber, i lb.; asphaltum, ^ oz. Boil, and add a sufficient quantity of oil of turpentine. Common Varnish. Take gum .juniper, 8 ozs.; Venice turpentine, 6 ozs.; rectified spirit of wine, 2 pints. Digest in a gentle heat till the gum and turpentine are dissolved. Gold Varnish for Leather. Take tur- meric root and gamboge, of ea-vh 1^ scruple ; oil of turpentine, 2 pints : seed-lac and gum juniper, of each 4 ozs.; dragon's blood, Joz,;