[ 350 ] POR POR PORK CUTLETS f 1). Take a loin of pork, and cut it; then divide it into cutlets; strew over them some parsley and thyme cut small, with pepper, salt, and grated bread ; broil them of a fine brown. Have ready some good gravy, a spoonful of ready-made mustard, and two shallots shred small; boil all these together over the fire, and thicken with a piece of butter rolled in floui*. If agreeable add a little vinegar. Serve the cutlets in a hot dish, with the sauce poured over them. PORK CUTLETS (2). Cut the pork chops the same as veal cutlets, leaving a little fat on them ; beat them to flatten them into a good shape; broil them, and when thoroughly done serve with sauce Rohert or gherkins. ■PORK, FILLET OF (Roasted). Take a piece of back pork, cut the chine-bone from the under part, and let it lie in a marinade all night. When to be roasted run a lark spit through, tie it on another spit, cover it with paper, and roast it gently; and when to be served up, if not coloured enough, glaze it lightly, and serve it with a sauce Robert under- neath. PORK FRITTERS are made in the same manner as veal fritters : the pig's fry makes the best. They should be fried in olive oil, and made of a lighter colour than other fritters. PORK AS GOOSE. Having parboiled the leg, take off the skin, and then put it down to roast; baste it with butter, and when nearly done sprinkle it with a powder made of dry sage, ground black pepper, salt, and grated bread, rubbed together through a cullender. You may add a minced onion to the mixture. Put half a pint of gravy into a dish, and goose stuffing under the skin of the knuckle, or garnish with balls of it either fried or boiled. PORK GRISKIN. Pork griskin is, in general, extremely hard. The best way to prevent this is by putting it into a sufficient quantity of cold water to cover it, and let it boil up ; then instantly take it off, and put it into a Dutch oven, and it will be done in a few minutes. It should be rubbed all over with butter and floured before it is put to the fire. See Geiskin : To Dress. PORK, HASHED (with Onions). Cut a cold roasted chine of pork into small slices, and clear away all the skin; take fifteen large onions, cut them in halves, take out the hearts, and cut them into thin rings ; fry them lightly, drain and put them into a stewpan, with two spoonsful of consomme. When reduced to a glaze add the meat and four spoonsful of Espagnole. Make it hot without boiling, put in some butter, and serve it. PORK AS LAMB. Take a young pig of four or five months old, cut up the fore-quarter as you would that of a lamb for roasting, and truss the shank up closely. The other parts will make good pickled pork, steaks, or pies. PORK, LEG OF (Barbicued). Put a leg of pork before the fire to roast, put a good deal of red wine into the dripping-pan, and baste it well all the time it is roasting. If there is not enough port in at first add more: it will take about three pints. Cut the skin from the bottom of the shanks in rows of an inch broad, raise every row, and roll to the shank. Have ready a pint of strong gravy, and add to it a pint of red wine, a couple of anchovies, a bundle of sweet herbs, the yolks of four eggs boiled hard and pounded fine, with I lb. of butter, the juice of a lemon, and two spoonsful of catsup. Let the gravy and wine be well boiled together, and the anchovies with them; strain these off, and add the other ingredients ; let them boil a few- minutes, froth the pork, take it up, pour part ' of the sauce over it, and put the rest in a boat. PORK, LEG OF (Boiled). Take a leg of pork that has been in salt eight or ten days, and when it is to be dressed weigh it; let it soak in cold water half an hour to make it white, allowing a quarter of an hour to every pound, and half an hour over from the time it boils up : as soon as it boils skim it, and so continue. Allow water enough. It should be boiled in a cloth nicely floured : this adds much to the delicacy of its appearance. The pork should be small, and of a fine grain. Serve peas pudding and turnips with it. PORK, LEG OF (Broiled). Skin part of the fillet, cut it into thin slices, score them on the back with a knife, and season with salt and pepper, sage and thyme, minced small; then broil them on a gridiron, dish them, and let their sauce be butter, vinegar, and mustard. PORK, LEG OF (Roasted). Make choice of a small leg of fine young pork; with a sharp knife cut a slit in the knuckle, and fill the place -with chopped sage and onion, and a little pepper and salt. When half roasted score the skin in slices, being careful not to cut deeper than the outer rind. Apple sauce and potatoes should be served to eat with it. PORK, LOIN AND NECK OF. They should be roasted. With a sharp penknife cut the skin of the loin across at the distance of half an inch. PORK, NECK OF (Rolled). Take a neck of pork, and remove all the bones ; put a forcemeat of chopped sage, a very few bread crumbs, salt, pepper, and a few berries of all- spice, over the inside; then roll the meat as tightly as you can, and let it roast slowly, placing it at first a good distance from the fire.