MOL MON C 218 ] MOLASSES POSSET FOR A COLD. Take a pint of the best molasses, a tea-spoonful of powdered ginger, J lb. of fresh butter, and let them simmer together for half au hour; then stir in the juice of two lemons, or, if you have not these, two table-spoonsful of strong vinegar; cover over the saucepan, and let it stand by the fire five minutes longer. Some of this may be taken wann or cold. MOLASSES SAUCE. Put half a pint of molasses to boil in a skillet, with a piece of butter the size of an egg. When it has boiled a few minutes pour in a tea-cupful of cream, and grate in half a nutmeg. This is the most economical way of making sauce. MOLES AND BIRTH-MARKS. The com- mon brown mole, which the Greeks called spilos, appears to be much of the same nature with freckles, and to be situated in the middle layer of the skin, or the membrane of colour. Moles are sometimes so well placed as to set off rather than injure a fine face, serving as a contrast to the delicacy of the skin, and giving an archness of expression to the countenance. They are most becoming, and they are also most commonly met with, in women of dark complexion. It is not unusual, however, to find them on the fairest and most delicate skin. The colouring matter, as in the case of freckles and sunburn, is pro- bably some chemical combination of iron. Be this as it may, moles have evidently a super- abundant vitality, and a tendency to increased action, in consequence, perhaps, of the stimulus of the iron ; and hence they are often slightly elevated above the surface, and the natural down of the skin is changed into a tuft of hair. They usually originate before birth, and sometimes disappear at the age of puberty; but they have also been known to appear at different ages. The same cosmetic applications may be tried as for freckles, with gentle friction, but they are seldom successful. Care must be taken, how- ever, not to produce much irritation, as it may lead to dangerous consequences, such as a foul, suppurating, fetid sore, or even to cancer or mortification, followed by sudden fatality. The less they are tampered with the better; and we must particularly denounce, as very dangerous, the application of depilatories for eradicating the tufts of hair on moles. Cancer is a common consequence of such empirical applications. None of our readers, we presume, are tinged with the vulgar folly of supposing that moles have anyiniluence on the fortune of individuals, or that this can be interpreted by the jugglery of gipsies. Influence of a mother's imagination. We be- lieve to a certain extent in the influence which a mother's imagination may have over the form and features of her offspring; but we can do this and reject, with perfect consistency of principle, the absurd stories told of the origin of wine spots, cherry spots, currant spots, mulbeny spots, grape spots, strawberry spots, raspbeny spots, leaf spots, bacon spots, and spider spots, often found on the skins of children at birth. Such spots are more commonly found on the face, neck, head, and upper extremities than on the trunk or lower parts of the body, and they all consist of a thick cluster of blood-vessels— arteries when the spots are of a bright red, and veins when purple or any other colour pre- dominates. The brightness or deepness of the colour is caused by the crowding of the vessels, and the extreme thinness of the sltin which covers them. The common vulgar origin of birth-marks is supported by observing, that they become brighter at the season the fruit is ripe which they are supposed to resemble. If this observation had been more accurate it would have discovered that the colour of the mark increases with the stimulus of the summer heat; and if the general health be at any time de- ranged, or if the current of the blood be in- creased by hot rooms, high-seasoned dishes, or wine, the same increase of colour will appear on the birth-mark as during the season of grapes, currants, cherries, or strawberries. Removal of hirth-marks. It is still more dan- gerous to tamper with red or purple birth-marks than with moles ; for the clustering of the blood- vessels sometimes extends to a greater depth than may be imagined, and if the mark is bruised or wounded a dangerous bleeding may follow, or an unsightly tumour. Mr. Abernethy was very frequently successful in removing them by con- tinued pressure, and Mr. Langstaff by caustic, while Mr. Wardrop and others fairly cut out the parts with the knife—the best and safest method where all the affected parts can be easily reached. The late Mr. Alan Burns suc- cessfully cut out a mark of this kind, which covered part of the right eye and cheek, like the wattles of a turkey cock. Mr. Langstaff was successful in cutting away the greater part of the upper lip of a child, three months old, who was hideously disfigured in a similar way. In all such cases we strongly recommend applying to a skilful surgeon, as otherwise dangerous consequences may follow. MOLUCCA, BALM OF. This agreeable cordial is made by adding to one gallon of spirits of wine f oz. of bruised cloves and -g- drachm of bruised mace. After standing a fortnight in a corked bottle, filter, colour with burnt sugar, and add 4^ lbs. of lump, sugar dissolved in half a gallon of water. Mix thoroughly, and then bottle. MONEY. See Coin, Current. MONKSHOOD. It all its parts, but parti-