[ 1C5 ] L UN LOU LOUSE. See Lice. LOVAGE : To Make. For three gallons take six quarts of spirits, one of the spirits of wine, 1^ lb. of celery, 6 dwts. of cinnamon, 10 drops of the oil of caraway, and 2 lbs. of sugar. Fill up with water. The celery must be cut small, the mace and cinnamon pounded in a mortar, and the whole steeped for three days in the spirits of wine. The oil of caraway must be killed in the usual way. Fine with alum o^ly, and colour it pale with burnt sugar. LOVE APPLE. See Toihato. LOVE IN DISGUISE. Clean and stuff a calf's heart, cover it an inch thick with force- meat, roll it in vermicelli, put it into a dish with a little water, and bake it. When done serve it in its own gravy. LOVING CUP. Toast some bread, and place it in a bowl that will hold two quarts; grate over it some nutmeg, pour in a quart of ale, and then two-thirds of a bottle of sherry ; sweeten to taste, and immediately before serving add a bottle of soda water. LOZENGE CAKES. Roll out puff paste, cut it into strips, and then into lozenges; glaze and put them into the oven. When they are baked glaze them if required, and serve. LOZENGES, BLACK CURRANT. Pijt any quantity of black currants into a large jar, cover it closely, set it in a moderate oven, and let it remain all night; then press the juice or pulp through a coarse thin cloth as dry as possible, and set it on the fire, with ^ lb. of powdered loaf sugar to about three pints of pulp. Only let it simmer, stirring it almost constantly; skim it, and when it becomes thick rub a large flat dish with a little butter, pour in the jai^i, and set it before the fire or in a cool oven to dry. When sufficiently dry cut it into lozenges. LOZENGES, GINGER. To 1 lb. of brown sugar take ^ oz. of prepared ginger arid \ oz. of powdered rhubarb; mix them well together, and put it into a brass pan, with t^o table- spoonsful of peppermint water and \ oz. of magnesia ; stir it, and let it have one thorough boil up; then pour it on a stone or large dish, rubbed over with olive oil, or fresh b^tter, and make it up into lozenges. These lozenges have been found useful for indigestion or acidity oji the stomach. LUCIFER MATCHES. Form six parts of glue into a smooth jelly, and rub with it four parts of phosphorus, at a temperature of 140° or 150° Fahr.; add ten parts of nitre, five of red ochre, and two of fine smalts. The matches are first dipped in melted wax to the depth of one- tenth of an inch, previously rubbing their ends on a hot iron plate. Or, glue six parts; phos- phorus, four; nitre, ten ; red-lead, five; smalts, two. The glue is soaked in water for twenty-four hours, then liquefied in a warm mortar, and tht, phosphorus added, taking care that the tem- perature is not above 167° Fahr. Or, glue, twenty-one parts ; phosphorus, seven teen ; nitre, thirty-eight; red-lead, twenty-four. Proceed as before. Noiseless Congreves. Triturate nine parts of phosphorus with a solution of sixteen parts of gum, and add fourteen parts of nitre and sixteen of vermilion. LUMBAGO and Sciatica. {See Rheuma- tism.) When chronic rheumatism affects the small of the back it is known by the name of hmk^ffo. The pains shoot downwards from the loins, the patient cannot stand upright without experiencing great pain, nor does he find any ease in bed. When this disease fixes itself in the hip joint it is called sciatica. Both of these forms of the disease require to be treated nearly in the same manner as chronic rheumatism. In sciatica and pains situated in the hips and loins turpentine is frequently given with con- siderable benefit. The hot bath, when the patient is strong and the symptoms moderate, is of service, continuing in it from about fif- teen to twenty-five minutes. The following bolus, given also in rheumatism when the fever is gone, may be taken at bedtime: — Extract of opium, 1J grain; powder of ipeca- cuanha, 3 grains; nitre, 10 grains; confection of opium, 1 scruple; syrup, enough to make a bolus. The balsam of Peru, taken to the quantity of 30 drops twice a day, has been of use in lumbago and sciatica; also the balsam of copaiva and Canada turpentine. Rubbing the part until it becomes inflamed with the flour of mustard has a good effect, as well as mustard whey, made in the following manner, drunk plentifully :—Take milk and water, of each 1 i pint; bruised mustard seed, 2 ozs. Boil these together until the curd be perfectly separated from the milk. Strain afterwards through a cloth. This is a convenient and beneficial method of administering mustard, and is found equally efficacious as a drink in palsy and dropsy, as it invigorates the habit and promotes the different secretions. A little sugar may bo a,dded to it to render it more palatable. The dose may be a tea-cupful five or six times a day. LUNACY. See Madness. LUNAR CAUSTIC. See Caustic. LUNCHEON is a very necessary meal be- tween an early breakfast and a late dinner, for a healthy stomach should not be without a fresh supply of food once in four hours. Luncheon should be a light repast, and to this end Dr Kitchener recommends a bit of roasted poultry, a basin of good beef tea, or eggs poached or boiled in the shell, fish plainly dressed, or a