LEG LEG [ 136 ] for ease. We have known a fractured thigh- bone, after it had been kept straight for abuve a fortnight, displaced bv this means, and con- tinue bent for life, in spite of all that could be done. It has been customary, when a bone was broken, to keep the limb for five or six weeks continually upon the stretch; but this is a bad posture. It is both uneasy to the patient and unfavourable to the cure. The best situation is to keep tiie joint a little bent. This is the pos- ture into which every animal puis its limbs when it goes to rest, and in' which fewest muscles are upon the stretch. It is easily effected by either laying the patient upon his side, or making the bed so as to favour this position of the limb. Bone-setters ought carefully to examine whether the bone be not shattered or broken into several pieces. In this case it will some- times be necessary to have the limb immediately taken off, otherwise a gangrene or mortification may ensue. The horror which attends the very idea of an amputation often occasions its being delayed in such cases till too late. When a fracture is accompanied with a wound it must be dressed in all respects as a wound. All that art can do towards the cure of a broken bone is to lay it perfectly straight, and to keep it quite easy. All tight bandages do hurt. They had much better be omitted alto- gether. A great many of the bad consequences which succeed to fractured bones are owing to tight bandages. This is one of the ways in which the excess of art, or rather, the abuse of it, does more mischief than would be occasioned by the want of it. Some of the most sudden cures of broken bones M'hich were ever known happened where no bandages were applied at all. Some method, however, must be taken to keep the member steady; but this may be done many ways, without bracing it with a tight bandage. The best method of retention is by two or more splints made of leather or pasteboard. These, if moistened before they are applied, soon assume the shape of the included member, and are sufiicient, with the assistance of a.very slight bandage, for all the purposes of retention. The bandage which we would recommend is that made with twelve or eighteen tails. It is much more easily applied and taken off than rollers, and answers all the purposes of retention equally well. The splints should always be as long as the limb, with holes cut for the ankles when the fracture is in the leg. The most proper external application for a fracture is oxycrate, or a mixture of vinegar and water, to which some spirits of wine may be .added. Thp bandages should be wetted with this at every dressing if the inflammation runs high. LEGS, BANDY. See Bandy Legs. LEGS, SORE. This is a complaint to which labouring men are especially liable. It is really the formation of ulcers on the limbs. If aa ulcer of long standing be seated on the leg it should be poulticed, and the edges of it brought close together by slips of adhesive strapping, over which a bandage, continued from the foot along the leg, somewhat tight, should be applied, and afterwards kept moist with spring water. An ulcer may be distinguished from a wound by the former discharging a thin watery humour, which is often so acrid as to inflame and corrode the skin ; also by the hardness and perpen- dicular situation of its sides, by the time it has continued, &c. It requires some judgment to say when some old ulcers ought to be dried up. Those in general which proceed from a bad habit of body should, at least, be suffered to continue open till the constitution be so far changed by proper regimen or the use of medicine, that they seem to heal of their own accord. Those which are the effect of malignant fevers or other acute diseases may, in general, be safely healed a short time after the health has been restored. The cure, nevertheless, ought not to be attempted too soon, nor at any time without having pre- viously used purging medicine and nutritious diet. When wounds or bruises, by wrong treatment, have degenerated into ulcers, they may be healed, if the constitution be good, with safety ; but when ulcers are a consequence of some chronic disease, or are substituted for them, they must be healed with proper caution and consideration, lest they bring back the original disease in a more virulent and dangerous form ; and if any ulcer conduce to the patient's health, which the healing of it up would be likely to molest, it ought not to be healed ; but, on the contrary, if it exhaust the patient by consuming his strength in a slow fever, it should be healed as soon ai possible. Lime water has frequently been of singular service in the cure of obstinate ulcers, given both internally and used as in gravel, and externally as a lotion. Or, to ill-conditioned ulcers, the following may be applied often:— Take muriate of ammonia, sulphate of mag- nesia, and sulphate of soda, of each ^ drachm; spring water, 4 ozs. Make a lotion. To be applied often during the day. A bread and- milk poultice at bedtime. The hard and callous sides and bottoms of ulcers may be sprinkled twice a day with a little red precipitate, and afterwards dressed with basilicon.