RAB KAB [ 380 ] butter till they are ligbtly browned ; put them into a stewpan, with one pint of water, a slice of lemon, an anchovy, a table-spoonful of lemon pickle, a little Cayenne, and salt; stew them over a slow fire till they are done enough; then thicken the gravy with butter and flour, and strain it. Serve up the rabbits with the gravy over them, and garnish with slices of lemon. RABBITS, GELATINE OF. Bone and flatten two young rabbits ; lay forcemeat upon them, with slices of ham, breast of fowl, and omelets of eggs, white and yellow; roll all up tightly, and fasten them; lard the upper part with fat bacon ; blanch and braise them. Glaze the larding, put some gravy to them, and serve them hot. RABBITS, MARINADE OF. Take some cold roasted rabbits, cut them in pieces, trim them nicely, and put them into a marinade. When sufficiently flavoured drain them tho- roughly, put the pieces into a batter, and fry them a nice colour. Serve with fried parsley. RABBITS WITH ONION SAUCE. Cut the rabbits in nice pieces, and stew them gently in a braise, or white in butter, as the most careful boiling hardens them • have ready a rich onion sauce made with cream or stock. This appears to be a primitive and rude seasoning for anything so delicate; it, however, is very good when the ragout, instead of being entirely of onions, is made of a mixture of apples, bread or turnips, and onions. It may also be dressed in a ragout of celery, artichoke bottoms, scorzonera, Jerusalem artichokes, peas, French beans, &c. RABBITS (PoRTPGUESE way). Cut off the heads of a couple of rabbits, turn the backs upwards, the two legs stripped to the end, and trussed with a couple of skewers in the same manner as chickens, with the shoulders turned like the pinions of a chicken: lard and roast them with good gravy. If they are intended for boiling they should not be larded, but be served with bacon, greens, and celery sauce. RABBITS, POTTED. Take two or three young, but full-grown rabbits; cut them up, and take off the leg bones at the thigh; season them well with pepper, mace, Cayenne, salt, allspice (all in very fine powder), and put them into a small pan, placing them as closely together as possible. Make the top as smooth as you can. Keep out the heads and carcasses, but take off the meat about the neck ; put plenty of butter, and let the \yhole bake gently. Let it remain in the pan for two days; then put it into small pots, adding butter; the liver should also be put in. RABBITS, PULLED. Half boil your rabbits with an oniony a Uttle whole pepper, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a piece of lemon-peel; pull the flesh into flakes, put to it a little of the liquor, a bit of butter rolled in flour, pepper, salt, nutmeg, chopped parsley, and the liver boiled and bruised; boil this up, shaking it round, and serve. RABBITS. QUENELLES OF. Take the fillets and legs of rabbits, separate the meat from the skin and sinew, pound it thoroughly, and rub it through a quenelle sieve. Take an equal quantity of panada, the same of butter, each pounded separately, and pass through a quenelle sieve ; then pound all three together. In a little time add salt, pepper, and spice, still pounding; add occasionally three yolks and two whole eggs, and when sufficiently pounded make up a ball of it, which put into a saucepan to try if it be properly seasoned. Whip three whites of eggs to a very firm froth, stir it into the farce with a wooden spoon, instead of the pestle, and finish as usual. RABBITS, STEWED. Divide the rabbits into quarters, lard them with large slips of bacon, and fry them; then put them into a stewpan, with a quart of good broth, a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little pepper and salt, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. When done dish up and pour the gravy sauce on them, garnishing with sliced lemons. RABBITS, STEWED (with a Beown ob White Sauce). Wash and clean the rabbits well, let them lie for two or three hours in cold water, cut them into joints, wash and dry them in a cloth, dust them with flour, fiy them of a light brown with butter, and stew them in the following sauce:—Brown 3 ozs. of butter in a stewpan with a table-spoonful of flour, a minced onion, and some pepper and salt; add a pint of gravy and the rabbits, stew them till they are tender, and a little before serving stir in a table-spoonful of catsup. When it is wished to dress with a white sauce the rabbits are not fried, but stewed in white stock, which is seasoned with white pepper and salt, and thickened with a piece of butter mixed with flour. A few minutes before serving a little cream is added, and a table-spoonful of lemon pickle. RABBITS EN SURPRISE. Stuff two rabbits, roast them, take off the meat from the bones, and chop it fine, with shred parsley, lemon- lemon-peel, beef marrow, a spoonful of cream, and salt; beat the yolks of hard eggs with a little butter iu a mortar; mix the whole together, and stew it five minutes ; lay this on the rabbits where the meat has been cut off, and brown it with a salamander; pour on some good thick gravy, and put some myrtle in the mouth of each rabbit. Serve with the livers boiled and frothed.