[ 491 ] TIN Tim of recent introduction. The treatment most effectual seems to be similar to that we have given under the head of Putrid Sore Throat, hut with the addition of chloride (muriate) of iron to the medicines. From 10 to 30 drops of the tincture of muriate of iron may be given two or three times a day. THRUSH, or Aphth.e. The aphthse are little whitish ulcers affecting the whole inside of the mouth, tongue, throat, and stomach of infants. Sometimes they reach through the whole intestinal canal, in which case they are very dangerous, and often put an end to the infant's life. If the aphthje are of a pale colour, pellucid, few in number, soft, superficial, and fall easily off, they are not dangei'ous; but if opaque, yellow, brown, black, thick, or running together, they ought to be dreaded. It is generally thought that the aphthse owe their origin to acrid humours. We have reason, however, to believe they are more frequently owing to too hot a regimen both of the mother and child. It is a rare thing to find a child who is not dosed with wine, punch, cinnamon waters, or some other hot and inflaming liquors, almost as soon as it is born. It is well known that these will occasion inflammatory disorders even in adults: is it any wonder, then, that tliey should heat and inflame the tender bodies of infants, and set, as it were, the whole constitution on a blaze ? The most proper medicines for the aphtha are vomits and gentle laxatives. Five grains ef rhubarb and i drachm of magnesia alba may be rubbed together, and divided into six doses, one of which may be given to the infant every four or five hours till they operate. These powders may either be given in the child's food or a little of the syrup of pale roses, and may be repeated as often as is found necessary to keep the body open. It is common in this case to administer calomel; but, as that medicine sometimes occasions gripes, it ought always to be given to infants with caution. Many things have been recommended for gargling the mouth and throat in this disease, but it is not easy to apply these in very young cliildren. We would therefore recommend it to the nurse to rub the child's mouth frequently with a little borax and honey, or with the following mixture:—Take fine honey, 1 oz.; borax, 1 drachm; burnt alum, ^ drachm; rose water, 2 drachms : mix them together. A very proper application in this case is a solution of 10 or I'i grains of white vitriol in 8 ozs. of barley water. These may be applied with the finger, or by means of a bit of soft rag tied to the end of a probe. THRUSHES. These birds are dressed the same as woodcocks. TIC DOULOUREUX. This is distinguished by acute lancinating pain shooting along the various ramifications of the nerves of tlie face. The fits, which generally continue about half a minute, sometimes recur in quick succession. The pain varying in its intensity, excites the most piercing cries. When at its height the parts affected ai"e contorted or convulsed. The eye at times is inflamed and watery. The paroxysms, which are more frequent during the day than the night, are aggravated by conversa- tion and mastication. One side of the face is generally the seat of the disorder. Tic douloureux may be distinguished from rheumatic, gouty, and every other affection of the cheek, by the uniform course of the pain, which will so generally correspond with tlie nerves, that the person thus tormented will be able accurately to trace those of the fifth pair. This complaint sometimes subsides suddenly, the health remaining permanently established. Oftener it returns at intervals more or less considerable, and sometimes during the whole progress of life. 'The only remedy is that of section of the nerves. This will occasionally prove effectual. If it even give but temporary relief the opera- tion should be attempted, being simple and unattended with danger. The best medical remedies are from ^ drachm to 1 drachm of carbonate of iron mixed in honey, and taken twice or thrice a day. Rub into the part affected a piece, about the size of a pea, of the extract of belladonna. Diet has a great influence. A little minced food taken frequently, and no hearty meal, has been known to banish this disease. TIMBALE. Put a spoonful of flour on tlie slab, make a hole in the middle of it, into which pour a little oil, ^ lb. of butter, the yolks of two eggs, and a pinch of salt; knead these ingredients thoroughly into the flour till the whole becomes a tolerably firm paste, roll it out to nearly half an inch in thickness, and line on» large or several small round plain moulds; fill your timbale with any farce or ragout you think proper, cover it with a layer of paste, pressing the edges together, and bake it. When done turn the timbale on a dish, make a hole in it, pour in some rich sauce or gravy, and serve. TIN is one of the lightest and most fusible of all metals; it is of a greyish white colour, has a strong, disagreeable taste, and when rubbed emits a peculiar odour. It is also remarkably malleable; and, when beaten into very thin plates, or tinfoil, is employed in covering looking- glasses. Farther, tin readily unites with copper, forming the compositions known under the names