[ -133 1 SHA SHE calte or piece of any good latliering soap, the best yellow in preference, and rub it upon our chin. The brush being applied to this soon forms a good lather upon the skin ; this we wash off, repeat the operation, and then commence shaving. People who have not tried it can have no idea of the advantage derived from lathering the face twice over, the first lathering being washed off, and the face wiped before the second is applied. When of luxuriant growth the beard should each day be subjected to the operation of the razor. The best time for shavinc; is the morn- ing immediately on rising, for at this time the beard is softer than during any succeeding part of the day. When the skin is tender the best thing to remove the heat of the razor is a little cold cream, applied after the face has been washed. Never wipe your razor upon paper, but upon a shaving napkin made of very soft linen. The best material for making these napkins is old and long-used table-cloths, or old linen shirts. After shaving, the razor, before it is stropped, should be carefully and delicately wiped upon a, separate napkin of the sam.e material. See Razor.—(Magazine of Domestic Econowy.) SHAVING LIQUID. Rub well in a marble xnortar 1 oz. of Castile soap with 2 drachms of salt of tartar. Add by degrees half a pint of fine lavender water, with 2 grains of camphor dissolved in it. When the whole is well incor- porated together filter it, and keep it in closely stopped bottles. For use put 10 drops into a small wine-glassful of water, dip the shaving- brush into the water, and by rubbing it on the face a fine lather will be immediately obtained. SHAVING PASTE. Melt together ] drachm each of spermaceti, white wax, and almond oil; beat it up with 2 ozs. of the best white soap, and a little lavender or Cologne water. Or, Naples soap beaten up with suiEcient powdered soap to form a stiff paste. Or, white soft soap, 4 ozs.; powdered Castile soap, 1 oz.; oil of olives or almonds, \ oz. SHAVING POWDER. Melt together in a water-bath 1 lb. of white soap with 1 oz. of powdered spermaceti, and \ oz. of chlorate of potash dissolved in a little water or rose water. Pour the liquefied soap into a shallow mould: when solidified shave it fine, and dry as above. —[Beasleys Dnir/gist's Receipt Book.) SHAVING SOAP. Cut into thin shavings 3 lbs. of good white soap, and to this add 1 lb. of palm soap, 1 oz. of soda, and about f lb. of soft water. Melt the whole in an earthen vessel over a slow fire, and add 60 drops of the oil of laven- der, 100 of lemon, and 50 of bergamot: place it in forms to cool. SHEEP'S HEAD AND PLUCK. Sea Lamb's Head and Pluck. VOL. II. SHEEP'S TAILS, BRATPED. Clean and wash the tails thoroughly, scald them, and then put them into a saucepan on slices of streaked bacon, with tarragon, a bunch of sweet herbs, turnips, parsley, salt, pepper, and moisten th.e whole with consomme; cover them closely, and braise them till quite tender; then lay the tails on a dish, and pour the other articles over them. SHEEP'S TAILS, ROASTED. Having thoroughly washed the tails in warm water, scald them for five min.utes in boiling water; then cove^ them completely with bread crumbs, mised with sweet herbs, salt, and pepper ; fasten the tails to a spit, and roast them before a moderate fire. Any sauce you please iray be served with them. SHEEP'S TONGUE PIE. Line a dish with some good puff paste, and lay at the bottom of it some good forcemeat made of roasted poultry, suet, parsley, chopped mushrooms, pep- per, salt, and a few fine spices; upon this place the tongues cut in two, and upon them a good slice of ham, a little butter, and a few slices of bacon; put on the cover, and bake it. When done take out the bacon and ham, skim off all the fat, and pour on it what sauce you please. SHEEP'S TONGUES, BROILED. Having parboiled the tongues in a little stock, split each; give them a few turns in some melted butter, strewing over them salt, pepper, shred parsley, and bread crumbs. When well covered with the latter lay them on a gridiron, and broil them slowly. SHEEP'S TONGUES, ROASTED. Take six sheep's tongues, and having properly pre- pared them, lard them with small lardons, tie them to a skewer, wrap a buttered paper round, fasten them on a spit, and roast them before a moderate fire. A little before they are done take off the papers, baste them with butter, and make them of a nice colour. Serve with whatever sauce you may prefer. SHEEP'S TROTTERS. First boil and then put them into a stewpan. with a glass of white wine, half a pint of broth, as much cullis, some sweet herbs, salt, whole pepper, and mace ; stew them on a slow fire till the sauce is re- duced ; then take out the herbs, and serve them with or without a ragout of cucumbers. SHEEP'S TROTTERS IN PASTE. Put the feet into a pan, with some melted butter, parsley, scallions, morels, and streaked bacon ; set them on the fire, and stew them. Cut somo puff paste into twice as many pieces as you have feet, and in every two wrap a foot; close the ends nicely, do them over with yolk of egg, and bake them in a moderate oven. The feet should not be boned. SHEEP'S TROTTERS, STUFFED. Boil the feet in some good stock till the bones will 2 F