LAM [ 120 ] LAM improvements which have been introduceJ con- sist chiefly in the mode of supplying the oil or other fluid consumed. Thus there is the annular French lamp, with a reservoir for the oil in a ring round the light; Parker's semcmbra lamp, much like it, and having the same object—tlie avoidance of shado\y; Quarrel's Albion lamp keeps the wick better supplied with oil than the two preceding; Parker's hot-oil lamp heats its own oil previously to burning it; the solar lamp has a current of air thrown upon the outside of the flame, instead of passing through it as in the Argand; fountain lamps, of various intricate forms, have given place to the Carcel, or mode- rateur lamp, which, by a spiral spring, is made to force up an overflowing supply of oil to the wick; Young's Vesta, or camphine lamp, has been disused, owing to its liability to produce smuts, and to accidents from the combustible nature of the spirit employed to burn in it. We have already given some general directions for the management of lamps under the head of Argand Lamp, and we will only add to them that, to prevent or lessen the smoking of lamps, the wicks should be well soaked either in dilute muriatic acid, well washed in water and dried, or in strong vinegar, when they will merely require drying. Large lamps, that emit much smoke, should be burnt under a funnel to carry it off; or a large sponge, dipped in water, may be suspended over them. In all cases the wicks should not be put up too high. For the following valuable notes we are in debted to the " Supplement of the Penny Cyclo- paedia :"— Candle Lamps, oi Tallow Lamps, is a designation under which may be grouped many recent contrivances, having for their object the burning of solid tallow or fat instead of oil, but without having the tallow formed into a candle. The Soho lamp, patented in 1840, is intended for burning solid tallow or some other kind of fat, although the lamp itself is very similar in shape to many of those used with oil. The tallow is brought to the form of a long cylinder, like a candle without a wick, and is placed in the vertical stem of the lamp ; there is a spiral spring beneath it, which presses it up close to a conical cap or cover at the top. A fixed tube passes up through the centre of the cylinder of tallow, from top to bottom ; and in this tube is placed a cotton wick dipped in wax, the height of which above the top of the tallow can be re- gulated by a rack, pinion, and nut. The tallow or fat is made into a hollow cylinder, in order to leave room for the central tube containing the wick. When the lamp is to be extinguished tlie wick is drawn down below the top of the tube, and again raised before the tallow becomes cold. The lamps or candlesticks now made for burning Palmer's candles, and which are, indeed, fitted for most kinds of candles, bear a great deal of resemblance to the-above, in respect of having a conical cap to keep the candle within the tube, and a spiral spring in the lower part of the tube to press the candle upwards as it burns ; but there is no necessity for the central wick tube, since the candles employed have wicks of their own. These candlesticks, and the candles belonging to them, offer the two conveniences of maintaining the light always at an equal height, and of dispensing with the aid of snufl"ers. Some sort of shade or globe is necessary for realising the latter of these two benefits fully, shice the flame becomes very un- steady if the bui'ning be effected as in a com- mon candle. One of the projects of this class consists in placing any kind of wax, tallow, or fat into a receptacle, and having either hot water or hot metal beneath it, so as to keep it in a melted state, fitted to be used in the same manner as oil; but any method of keeping the water or the metal hot would seem likely to be a far greater inconvenience than any supposed good arising from the use of a solid food for the lamp. In another contrivance, however, where the sub- stance employed is either lard or tallow, there is a piece of metal which descends from the flame into the vessel containing the lard ; and this metal, becoming heated by the flame, communi- cates this heat to the lard, and thus keeps it in a melted state. The inconvenience of such arrangements arises from the circumstance that the hot water or a heated piece of metal must be put into the lamp before lighting it, in order to melt the tallow. When this preliminary step is taken the tallow is kept in a melted state by various means. One ingenious mode consists in having an air-tube within the wick, to carry air up to the flame, and two projections from this tube at the top into the flame itself; so that the metal of which the tube is made, be- coming heated at the upper end, speedily com- municates heat to the contents of the lamp below. There are many curious little pieces of me- chanism, patented within the last few years, the object of which relates principally to the burn- ing of common candles, or the mode of adjusting them into the candlesticks. One consists of a candle-shade constructed in a circular ring, which ring is suspended from a conical cap which rests on the top of the candle; as the candle burns this cap sinks with it, and by that means the shade is kept at a constant height relatively to the level of the blaze, though not relatively to the level of the table on which the candlestick is placed. Anothep cojitrivapce is