SUE SIII [ 401 ] come out with eap^; fill the space left by tliera with a good fowl or chicken farce, dip them well in lard, hi'ead them well, and Lake in a moderate oven. The space left by the bones is sometimes filled with a bit of fried bread. In tliis case the feet are only previously boiled, and then served with cream sauce. SHELFORD PUDDING. Mix f lb. of currants or stoned raisins, 1 lb. of flour, the same quantity of suet, six eggs, some good milk, lemon-peel grated, and a little salt. Boil the pudding in a melon-shaped mould six hours. SHERBET. This is a delicious beverage, composed of cream mixed with various articles, such as almonds, tea, pistachios, coffee, choco- late, and sugar, and then iced. Sherbet may also be made of various fruits sweetened to the taste, for the method of preparing which see the different articles it is usually composed of. When the liquor is sufficiently limpid and cold jjour it into a silver or tin sarbotiere, and ice it as usual. See Ice : To Prepaee. SHERBET, ORANGE. Dissolve H lb. of sugar in a quart of veiy pure water; take nine fine oranges and two fine lemons ; wipe them well with a napkin, and having grated the most fragrant rinds, squeeze on them the juice of the fruits; sweeten this juice with the above syrup, run the whole through a close hair sieve, and finish in the usual way. SHERRY. The district in which the true sherry is produced is in the neighbourhood of Xeres de la Frontera, twenty-one miles to the north of Cadiz, and the whole extent of vine- yards, which produce wine fit for the British market does not exceed 7000 acres; but, in- cluding those of Puerta San Maria and San Lucar, they may be estimated at double tbat extent. A great number of the wines exported to Great Britain under the name of sherry are the growth of Atalagar, and are brought round and transhipped at Cadiz. Most of the sherries sold in this country under forty shillings a dozen are the commonest qualities of San Lucar and Puerta San Maria vineyards, if they are nothing worse; and all the low-priced wines are largely mixed with brandy, being intended for the consumption of a class who are unable to judge of any quality in wine but its strength. The whole quantity of sherry annually exported from Xeres does not exceed 25,000 butts, and in no case do the exporters send a general natural wine as it comes from the press, without a mixture o_f other qualities. No wine is allowed by law to be sold till it is twelve months old; but the more respectable wine merchants never ship wine for this country till it has attained the age of two years. The exporters purchase the wine from the growers when it is generally about one year old, and the ordinary stock of one of the largest houses in Xeres is said to be 4000 butts ; and this is kept in casks of various sizes, in regular rows, in some parts of the cellar to the height of four tiers. They are called soleras, aud are always kept in cellars, and contain wines of various qualities and ages, from one to fifty years old. The wine merchants never exhaust their finest and oldest wines. Ac- cording to the price at which the wine sent to market is intended to be sold, so it contains a larger or smaller proportion of wine. But it is only in wines of a very high price that even a small portion of their finest wines is mixed. That which is drawn from the oldest and finest casks is made up from the casks which approach nearest in age and quality, and these are re- plenished from the next age and quality to them : thus a cask of wine said to be fifty years old may contain a portion of the vintages of thirty or forty seasons. The higher qualities of sherry are made up of wine the bulk of which is from three to five years old, and this is also mixed in various proportions with older wines : thus, from the gradual mixture of wines of various ages, no wine can be further from what may be called a " natural wine " than sheiTy.— [Hoffg's Vegetable Kingdom.) • SHIFT. See Chemise. SHINGLES is a kind of Erysipelas, and requires the treatment directed under that head. SHIRT-MAICLNG. We never yet saw a shirt the shoulder-straps of which were not too long in proportion to its size; and if any one will take the trouble to watch the movements of a youth while rowing, playing at cricket, &c., the remark will be borne out. Not only, in consequence, do all the wear and tear of the shoulder occur in the middle of the shoulder- strap, and below it, on the part of the shirt that is single, where no binder exists, but the top of the sleeve commences halfway down to the elbow, and a drag necessarily ensues upon that part of the garment which, though the weakest, is thus made to do all the duty, while we lavish double and treble thicknesses of cloth upon binders and shoulder-straps, which almost entirely escape the calls that are intended to be made upon them. The best shape for a binder is triangular, the widest part to reach and be fastened to the collar, with an opening to admit the neck-gusset, and the narrow ends to meet a little below the arm-holes, where the binder need not be above an inch in width, that part of the shirt being liable to no extra wear and tear. All notable wives and mothers have, we doubt not, felt that species of minor self-pity which the unexpected sight of dilapidated sleeve- gussets is wont to inspire. If they will watch