woo WOO [ 507 ] difficulty, and if their loading and exciting effects are compensated for by a sufficient amount of bodily exercise, we can have little hesitation iu affirming that, in point of whole- someness, they occupy a middle place between fermented liquors and foreign wines. Their use does not require so much working off as the use of ale or porter, but it requii'es moi'e working off than that of foreign wine; and, when their effects are so worked off, they ai'e less likely to do harm than foreign wines. WOOD. {See Bkech and other names respectively.) We shall here only treat of the methods of hardening and colouring wood. To harden wood for vialdng pulleys. After finishing the pulley, boil it seven or eight minutes in olive oil, and it will become as hard as copper. To prepare green wood so that it may not spilit in turning. Having cut the wood into pieces of a proper size, put it into a vessel full of lye, made with wood ashes. Boil it there about an hour; remove the caldron from the fire, and when the lye is'cold take out the wood and dry it in the shade. To give an ebony black to hard and fine wood. Rub the wood, previously made of the shape intended, with aquafortis a little diluted. Small threads of wood will arise in the drying, which must be rubbed off with pumice-stone. Repeat the process again, and then rub the wood with the following composition :—Put into a glazed earthen vessel 4 ozs. of sulphate of iron and a jpint of water, having \ oz. of borax and as much indigo dissolved in it; let the whole boil till a froth arises. Rub several layers of this upon the wood, and when it is dry polish it with leather and tripoli. To give plum tree the colour of Brazil tvood. Slake lime with urine, and daub the wood over it while it is hot; allow it to dry; then take off the coat of lime, and rub it with chamois skin well oiled. Or, steep the wood in water, having a quantity of alum dissolved in it; let it be kept lukewarm, and let the wood remain in it five or six hours. When it is dry rub it as before with chamois skin well oiled. To make neiv mahogany of a dark colour. Make a paste with quicklime and water; rub this paste over the mahogany, and the colour will be darker in proportion to the quantity used and the time which it is suffered to remain upon it: a few minutes will often be sufficient. To give a fine black colour to wood. Steep the wood for two or three days in lukewarm water, in which a little alum has been dissolved ; put a handful of logwood chips into a pint of water, and boil down to G ozs. : a little indigo being added will make the colour more beauti- ful. Spread a layer of this liquor, quite hot, on the wood with a pencil, which will give it a violet colour; when dry lay on another layer, and also a third ; then boil some verdigris in vinegar, and spread a layer of it on the wood. When dry rub it with a brush, and then with oiled chamois skin. To stain ivood Hue. Take 2 drachms of indigo in powder, put it into a glass with 2 ozs. of sulphuric acid, and stir them with a clean tobacco-pipe : after standing twelve hours mix a sufficient quantity of water with it to give the I'equired colour. To stain wood green. Dissolve verdigris in dis- tilled vinegar, or in aquafortis diluted with fifteen or twenty times its weight of water, and apply the solution to the wood, previously warmed. To stain wood purple. Take logwood chips, 1 oz.; Brazil wood, 2 drachms: boil them together in a quart of water over a slow fire. When one-half of the fluid is evaporated it must be strained, and several times laid on the wood with a proper brush till it has received a dark red shade. After it is perfectly dry draw over it repeatedly a weak solution of the purest pearlash, namely, 1 drachm in a pint of water : the colour will then become, if the liquids have been dexterously applied, a fine purple. To slain ivood red. Take Brazil wood and pearl- ash, of each 2 drachms. Mix them in a quart of water, and let the mixture stand in a warm place for several days, stirring it occasionally. When the colour is sufficiently extracted the coloured liquor must be moderately warmed, and in that state applied to the wood as many times as may be necessary to give it the desired colour. Next a solution of alum, in the pro- portion of 2 ozs. to a quart of water, is to be laid on the wood, while it is still wet with the former stains, with a soft brush. The wood may be afterwards polished or varnished. To stain ivood yellow. Take 1 oz. of turmeric root in powder; rectified spirit of wine, 1 pint. Digest them, shaking daily for a week, in a stopped bottle ; then decant the liquor, and lay it on repeatedly as may be found necessary. Or wood may be stained j^ellow by applying weak aquafortis to wood previously warmed, and, im- mediately after the stain is given, it should be held at some distance from the fire till it acquires the desired tint. A cement for stopping cracks in wood. Take pitch, bullock's blood, linseed oil, turpentine, and the finest brickdust, melted together in an iron pan. Small chinks may be filled with this substance whilst it is hot; larger ones should have tow or oakum previously stuffed into them ; and it is of importance that the wood be thoroughly dry, or the composition will not stick. WOODCOCK PIE, COLD. When the