SAG [ 408 1 SAG flour, I lb. of butter, and a pint of cream or milk ; set this Inst on the fire, to which add the butter and a considerable quantity of sugar, and etrain in some saffron to your taste. Take seven or eight whites of eggs and two yolks, with seven or eight spoonsful of yeast; put the milk to it when nearly cold, with salt and coriander seeds; knead the whole well, make it into small cakes, and bake them in a quick oven. SAGE {Salvia officinalis). In a medicinal view sage moderately warms and strengthens the alimentary canal: hence, in cold, phlegmatic habits it excites appetite, and may be of service to persons labouring under nervous debility. The best method of taking it is by an infusion of the dry leaves used as common tea, or a tincture or extract made with rectified spirit, and given in proper doses. These preparations contain the whole virtues of the sage, while the distilled water and essential oil possess only the warmth and aromatic quality, without any of its bittei'ness or astringency. Watery infusions of the leaves, with the addition of lemon juice, form a useful drink in febrile disorders, and are very grateful to the palate, SAGE AND ONION SAUCE. Chop 1 oz. of onions very fine, with half the quantity of green sage leaves ; put them into a stewpan with four spoonsful of water, simmer gently for ten minutes, then add a tea-spoonful of pepper and salt, and 1 oz. of fine bread crumbs; mix the whole, and pour thereto a quarter of a pint of broth, gravy, or melted butter; stir them well together, and simmer a few minutes longer. This is an excellent accompaniment for roast goose, duck, or pork. SAGO. From various species of Sagus the true sago of commerce is derived. There are many varieties of sago, produced by different palms, and also by Cycas revoluta; but the genuine commercial sago is for the most part taken from one species or another of this genus, and those which supply it in greatest quantity are S. Rumphii, S. l<Bvis, and S. farinifera. Sagus llumphii is a small tree, comparatively speaking, not above thirty feet high. It is a native of the Indian Archipelago, particularly of Malacca, Borneo, Sumatra, Celebes, and the Moluccas, Before the tree has arrived at maturity the stem consists of a mere shell, about two inches thick, filled with a great mass of spongy pith, becoming gradually absorbed, and ultimately the fitem remains hollow. At the time when the pith is fully developed, and before it has begun to diminish, which is Indicated by the superior leaves being covered with a sort of farina, or white dust, the tree is felled, and the trunk cut into lengths six or seven feet long, which are Bplit to admit of the pith being more easily removed. The pith is in the state of a coarse powder, and is mixed with water in a trough having a sieve at one end; the water, loaded with farina, passes through the sieve, and is received in convenient vessels, where it is allowed to stand till the insoluble matter has subsided. The water is then strained off, and the farina which is left may be dried into a kind of meal, or moulded into whatever shape may be desired. Sago, as it comes to this country, is prepared by forming the meal into a paste with water, and rubbing it into grains. It is produced in the greatest abundance in the Moluccas, but of the finest quality on the eastern coast of Sumatra. The Chinese of Malacca refine it so as to give it a fine pearly lustre, and large quantities are also prepared at Singapore. It is said that a single tree will yield from 500 to COO lbs. of sago. There are several other modes of extracting the fecula, varying some- what in detail in different countries; but the one just explained is that pursued in the Moluccas. Sometimes the natives merely cut the pith in slices, and toast it before eating it, and others preserve the fecula in stems of bamboo. Sago forms the principal food of the natives of the Moluccas. A decoction of sago fermented yields alcohol by distillation, and by acesceuce it forms vinegar. The fruit of this palm is the size of a hen's egg. The base of the leaf-stalks is covered with long, fibrous filaments, that serve to make cordage and sacking. 8. lavis and S. farinifera are natives of the same islands, and equally furnish the sago of commerce. SAGO ; To Make. Let it soak for an hour in water to take off the earthy taste ; pour that off, and wash it well; then add more water, and simmer gently until transparent, with lemon- peel and spice ; add wine and sugar according to taste, and boil all up together. SAGO JELLY. Soak a large spoonful of sago in cold water for an hour, then pour off the water, and substitute a pint of fresh : stew it gently till reduced to about half the quantity. When done pour into a basin, and let it cool. SAGO MILK. When well cleansed boil the sago slowly with new milk. A small quantity will be sufficient for a quart of milk, as it swells so much, and when done it should be reduced to about a pint. It requires neither sugar nor flavouring. SAGO POSSET; To Make. Beat up twelve eggs, and strain them; then put ? lb. of lump sugar into a pint of white wine, and mix the same with the egg; set the whole over a chafing-dish, and keep it stirred till scalding hot. In the meantime grate some nutmeg in a quart of milk, and heat it; pour it over the egg and wine, holding your hand high while doing it, and stirring it all the while ; then take it off, set it before the fire half an hour, and