[ 290 ] PAI PAG Melons should be inclosed in cap paper, placed iu a box, and surrounded by chaff, bran, or dry sawdust. Peaches, nectarines, and apricots should be carefully inclosed in a piece of tissue paper, and kept separate from each other by cotton wool. The two former should always be accompanied by leaves, and information should be sent as to the size of the flowers—whether large or small. Plums, when the bloom is important, should be rolled up, six or eight together, in a piece of cartridge paper, and tied round with matting. When the bloom is not important they may be packed in strawberry or similar leaves. The first should always be accompanied by leaves and wood. * Cherries, gooseberries, and currants travel veiy well, under general circumstances, if laid together in small shallow baskets or punnets, covered with leaves, and tied over with paper. Strawberries, raspberries, and mulberries should be packed in shallow boxes or punnets, each fruit being separately surrounded by one or two strawberry leaves. PAGE is a servant whose only duties are to attend upon his master or mistress, carrying messages and letters, and going on errands. Usually, however, a page is no more than a footboy, and his duties then are the same as are particularised under the head Footman. PAILLASSE. A paillasse is a grate with short feet, set over embers to cook anything slowly between fires. PAINT, CLEANING. If varnished, paint may be (jleaned with a flannel and mottled soap and water, but no soda must be in the water. Two persons should be employed; one thus to •wash the paint, and the other to diy it with a soft cloth as quickly as possible. If the paint is not varnished put upon a plate some of the best whiting; have ready some clean warm water and a piece of flannel, which dip into the water, and squeeze nearly dry; then take as much whiting as will adhere to it, apply it to the paint, when a little rubbing will instantly re- move any dirt or grease; wash well off with water, and rub dry with a soft cloth. Paint thus cleaned looks equal to new, and, without doing the least injury to the most delicate colour, it will preserve the paint much longer than if cleaned with soap, and it does not re- quire more than half the time usually occupied in cleaning. PAINT SPOTS. {See Grease Spots.) Spirit of turpentine applied to the paint spots on clothes by means of a piece of flannel, and whilst the spots are fresh, is the best mode of removing them. PAINTING HOUSES. With regard to painting a house we must, as in every other case, consider our circumstances, and strictly adhere to that which we can afford. But economy does not always consist in doing things cheaply; it is sometimes more effectually practised by spending a little more money in the first instance, pro- vided always that we can do it fairly, and run no risk of debt. We may sometimes be tempted to employ an inferior workman, because his charges are lower than those of experienced tradesmen. In some cases we ought to consider every pound, nay, every shilling, before we lay it out; but where five or ten pounds are of no ex- treme consequence, and a work can be comj^leted in a manner that may last for some years, or re- quire to be done over again in half the time, it is far cheaper to have it executed in the best manner, and with the best materials. Outside painting should, if possible, be well done, because it is exposed to all weathers. We remember the consequences of employing a cheap, but second-rate workman, when a hall door required to be painted. It was done extremely well as far as the eye could judge ; but in a very few months the paint all washed off, and left the door in a deplorable condition. Had a first-rate painter been employed the door would have re- mained in good order for years. Unless the varnish is good, and well laid on, the work will never stand. Inside painting is not so liable to injury ; but it should be well done if possible, because washing, when soiled, is necessary, and this will deface it in time if it is not well laid on, and in sufficient coats. When paint becomes pale and streaky it never looks clean, and the more it is washed the worse it is. Light oak is an excellent style of painting for the interior of a house. When well executed it has a beautiful effect in drawing-rooms, and is suited to almost every colour. It is considered very durable, which is a recommendation in regard to the hall, passages, &c., if it should not be approved in the principal apartments. The outside painting of houses is generally much neglected. It is an expensive and very disagreeable work; but it is of consequence to the preservation of the woodwork, which will soon decay if not properly protected by paint. Every house should be painted externally once in five years in the country; in towns at shorter intervals. In some towns the inhabitants are compelled to paint once in three years: this is the case in Brighton, and during the painting season the annoyance is extreme; but it is a necessary evil, and gives an air of brightness and cleanliness to the buildings very pleasing to the eye. Window-sills soon crack and become decayed when the paint is not properly renewed; and this entails more expense in the end than if they had been attended to at first. We are very much inclined to spend money in non-essentials