HAM [ 17 ] HAM pieces about four inches square, of course omitting the bone. Season it slightly with salt, and let it rest for half an hour; then take it out of the salt, put it into a large deep dish, and strew over it a mixture of Cayenne pepper, ground white ginger, and grated nutmeg; lay among it some small pieces of fresh butter rolled in a grated cracker, and add half a pint of vinegar—tarragon vinegar if you have it. Place the dish in a slow oven, and let the halibut cook till thoroughly done, basting it frequently with the liquid. When nearly done add a large table-spoonful or more of capers or pickled nasturtiums. HAM: To Bake. Unless when too salt, from not being sufficiently soaked, a ham (particularly a young and fresh one) eats much better baked than boiled, and remains longer good. The safer plan is to lay it in plenty of cold water overnight; the following day soak it for an hour or more in warm water, wash it delicately clean, trim off smoothly all the rusty parts, and lay it, with the rind downwards, in a coarse paste rolled to about an inch thick; moisten the edges, draw, pinch them together, and fold them over on the upper side of the ham, taking care to close them so that no gravy can escape. Send it to a well-heated, but not fierce oven. A very small ham will require three hours' baking, and a large one five. The crust and the skin must be removed while hot. When part only of a ham is dressed this mode is far better than boiling it. HAM : To Bon,. Soak the ham according to its age for twelve or twenty-four hours; put it into a large saucepanful of cold water, and if a small one let it simmer for two hours, and then boil an hour and a half. When done pull off the skin, rub it over with the yolk of egg, strew bread crumbs over, and brown it before the fire or with a salamander. HAM : To CAiiVE. This may be cut three ways ; but the most common method is to begin in the middle by taking long slices in the direction of a to h, from the centre through the thick fat. This brings you to the prime at once, and by cutting a small hole on the top of the ham at c, and taking thence thin circular slices, the gravy is preserved, and the meat kept moist. The best and most economical way is to begin VOL. u. at the hock end, and proceed onwards. When used for pies ham should be cut from the under side, first taking off a thick slice. HAM : To Choose. In choosing a ham run a knife into it at the knuckle. If it comes out clean and smells sweet the ham is good ; but if, on the contrary, the blade of the knife is smeared and smells rank, it is not good. HAM : To Dress. If a ham has hung for a length of time put it into water for a night, and let it lie either in a hole dug in the earth, or on damp stones sprinkled with water, two or three days to mellow, covering it with a heavy tub to keep any vermin from it. Wash well, and put it into a boiler with plenty of water; let it simmer four, five, or six hours, according to its size. When done enough, if before the time of serving, cover it with a clean cloth doubled, and keep the dish hot over boiling water; take off the skin, and strew it all over with bread raspings. Garnish with carrot. Preserve the skin as whole as possible to keep over the ham when cold, which will prevent its drying. HAM : To Roast. Take off the skin, and soak the hani in lukewarm water two or three hours; put it into a pan, pour over it a bottle of white wine, and let it steep ten or twelve minutes. When spitted lay four or five sheets over the fat side, pour the wine into a pan, and baste the ham all the time it is roasting. As soon as it is done take off the paper, and dredge it well with crumbled bread and parsley; brown the ham before a brisk fire, and if it is to be served hot garnish with raspings of bread ; if cold, ynth. parsley. Lord Blaney, in his " Travels in Spain," speaks rapturously of a ham boiled in cham- pagne. HAM A LA BRAISE. Having taken the rind from a well-flavoured ham, soak it in cold water, and tie it into a proper shape ; take slices of ham and beef, beat and season them with spice and sweet herbs shred small, lay them in a saucepan, with onions, carrots, parsnips, sliced parsley, and scallions; put the ham on this, the fat side uppermost; cover it with slices of bacon, beef, roots, and herbs, as under ; put on the lid, close it tightly, and let it stand for twelve hours with fire above and below. Set it by till cool, untie, and strew bread crumbs on it. Pass a salamander over to brown it. If it be served hot pour on it the following ragout:—Toss up veal sweetbreads, livers of fowls, cocks' combs, mushrooms, and truffles in a little melted bacon ; then put in a little gravy, and simmer them for half an hour ; take off the fat, and add veal and ham cullis. HAM AND EGGS. Poach eggs, and then take two or three sHces of boiled ham; mince them finely with a gherkin, a little onion, some parsley, pepper, and salt. Stew the whole