[ 466 ] STO STR ■whose erect figures are, in some measure, so many proofs of the correctness of our view of the subject. Au eminent surgeon related the following anecdote, which we conceive may be useful to many of our readers :— He was consulted by a gentleman, one of our first tragedians, as to the best mode of correcting a stoop which he had acquired. The surgeon told him that neither stays nor straps would do him any essential good, and that the only method of succeeding was to recollect to keep his shoulders braced back by a voluntary effort: but the tragedian replied that this he could not do, as his mind was otherwise occupied. The surgeon then told him that he could give him no farther assistance. Shortly after this conversation the actor ordered his tailor to make a coat of the finest kerseymere, so as to fit him very tightly when his shoulders were thrown back. Whenever his shoulders fell for- wai'd he was reminded by a pinch under the arms that his coat cost him six guineas, and that it was made of very fragile materials. Being thus forced, for the sake of his fine coat, to keep his shoulders back, he soon cured himself of the stoop. The surgeon was much obliged to him for the hint, and afterwards, when consulted whether young ladies should wear shoulder- straps, permitted them, on condition that they were made of fine muslin or valuable silk, lor tearing which there should be a forfeit. STOUT. See Porter. STOVE. See Fireplace. STRAIN. See Sprain. ■ STRAMONIUM. See Anodyne. STRANGULATION. See Hanging. STRANGURY. See Urine. STRAWBERRIES: To Preserve. Gather them with their stalks when dry, and lay them singly on a dish; beat and sift over them double their weight of fine sugar; bruise some ripe straw- berries, put them into the jar with the sugar, cover it closely, and let it stand in a kettle of boiling water till the fruit is soft, and the syrup extracted; strain through a piece of muslin into atossing-pan ; boil, skim, and when cold put in the whole strawberries, and set them over the fire till milk-warm ; then take them off, and let them stand till cold; set them on again, and make them warmer; do the same several times till the fruit is clear, but without boiling; put it into jelly glasses with the stalks down- wards, fill up the glasses with the syrup, and cover them closely. Raspberries are done in the same way, observing to every quart of fruit put the same quantity of red-currant juice, with double its weight of refined sugar. White rasp- barries must have white-currant juice. STRAWBERRIES, COMPOTE OF. This is made in the same manner as raspberries, only that the strawberries do not require to be mixed with any other fruit. STRAWBERRY CONSERVE. Take some very ripe fresh strawberries, pick, and crush them through a tammy. For every dessert- spoonful of juice allow 6 ozs. of sugar , boil this to grande pevle, take it off the fire, and pour in the juice; stir them together with a silver spoon until the conserve begins to whiten and dry, and then put it into moulds or paper cases. If the conserve be too white add a little carmine to the syrup. STRAWBERRY CREAM. Put 6 ozs. of strawberry jam to a pint of cream, pulp it through a sieve, add to it the juice of a lemon, ajid when no more froth will rise put the cream into a dish, or into glasses. Place the froth upon it well drained. STRAWBERRY FRITTERS. Make a paste with flour, a spoonful of sweet oil, chopped lemon-peel, whites of eggs beaten Tip, and a sufficient quantity of white wine to make it pretty soft, and just ready to drop from a spoon ; mix some large strawberries in it, and drop some of the mixtui-e, about the size of a nutmeg, in the hot fritters. When done take them out carefully, drain them on a sieve, and glaze them with sugar. STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. Take a pint of strawberries, pick them from the stalks, and pass them through a sieve with a wooden spoon; add 4 ozs. of powder sugar and a pint of cream, and freeze. STRAWBERRY JAM. Gather the scarlet strawberries when perfectly ripe, bruise them well, and add the juice of other strawberries; take an equal weight of lump sugar, pound and sift it, stir it thoroughly into the fruit, and set it on a slow fire; boil it twenty minutes, taking off the scum as it rises ; pour it into glasses or jars, and when cold tie them down. STRAWBERRY SHERBET. Take 14 ozs. of picked strawberries, crush them in a mortar, and then add to them a quart of water; pour this into a basin, with a tea-spoonful of lemon aciH and the same of orange-flower water, and leave the mixture two or three hours. Put 18 ozs. of fine sugar into another basin, cover it with a large cloth, through which pour the strawberry juice, and squeeze the cloth to extract as much as possible from it. When the sugar is entirely dissolved run the whole through a jelly bag until perfectly clear, and then finish as usual. STRAWBERRY SOUFFLE, PARISIAN. Take a basket of very fine strawberries, pick and crush them, and rub them through a sieve ; whisk the whites of eighteen eggs to a firm froth, to which add Ijlb. of powder sugar, and