C 234 ] MUT Bliccd, fom- or five cloves, and twenty -whole ppppercorns can be added at will. MUTTON GllAVY FOR GAME. The hest gravy for venison or game of any kind is that made with the trimmings of the joint. If it is all used, and you have no undressed venison, cut a scrag of mutton in pieces, and broil a light brown ; then put them into a clean stewpan with a quart of boiling water, cover it closely, and simmer gently for an hour. Now uncover the stewpan, and let the gravy reduce to three quarters of a pint; pour it through a hair sieve, take the fat off, and send it up in a boat. It is only to be seasoned with a little salt, that it may not overpower the natural flavour of the meat. MUTTON HAMS. Cut a hind-quarter of good mutton into the shape of a ham ; pound 1 oz. of saltpetre with 1 lb. of coarse salt and J lb. of coarse sugar; rub the ham well with this mixture, taking care to stuff the hole of the shank well with salt and sugar, and let it lie for a fortnight, rubbing it well with the mixture every two or three days ; then take it out, and press it with a weight for one day; smoke it with elm, ash, or oak sawdust for ten or fifteen days, or hang it to dry in the kitchen. If the ham is to be boiled soon after it has been smoked, soak it one hour; and if it has been smoked any length of time it will require to be soaked several hours. Put it on in cold water, and boil it gently two hours. It is eaten cold at breakfast, luncheon, or supper. A mutton ham is sometimes cured with the above quantity of salt and sugar, with the addition of ^ oz. of pepper, ^ oz. of cloves, and one nutmeg. MUTTON HARICOT (1). Cut some mutton chops rather thicker than for broiling, and trim them nicely; fry them in a little butter of a nice brown colour, and drain off the butter; then make a roux by putting together in a stew- pan a small piece of fresh butter and a spoon- ful of fine flour, placing it over a moderate fire, and stirring with a wooden spoon till the flour becomes of a good brown colour. Moisten with veal gravy of a good colour, and well seasoned. When your sauce boils put in the chops and the trimmings of your turnips, and let them stew gently on the corner of your stove ; skim frequently, and when the chops are nearly done drain them into a clean stewpan. Have ready some turnips and carrots cut into neat shapes, but rather large pieces ; add them to the chops, and drain the sauce through a sieve over the turnips and chops; then stew them in this sauce with a little sugar, and continue to skim frequently. When the turnips are done keep them hot in the bain-marie till you serve. MUTTON HARICOT (2). Take a scrag of mutton, make some good gravy with parsley, thyme, winter savory, sliced can'ots, onions, shallots, celery, some turnips well boiled and mashed, and a crust of white bread; stew all these together, then put in some steaks off a neck or loin (broiled first), and stew them in it some time ; season to your taste, strain it off, and slice in some carrots boiled separately for that purpose. MUTTON, HASHED. Cut the meat into thin slices, trim off all the sinews, skin, gristle, &c., and put in nothing but what is to be eaten; lay it on a plate ready, prepare your sauce- pan to warm it in, put in the meat, and let it simmer gently till it is thoroughly warm. Do not let it boil, as that will make the meat tough and hard. Select for the hash those parts of your joint that are least done. MUTTON, HASHED (a la Bouegeoise). Take what meat remains from a roasted leg of mutton which has been served the day before, cut off the skin, take away the coarse fibres, cut the meat into small and thin pieces, and put them into a saucepan ; then reduce a few spoons- ful of cull is, and put it to the hash, with 2 ozs. of butter. Warm up the M-hole, taking care that it does not boil, and serve with cold poached eggs round. MUTTON, HASHED (with Cucumbers). Pare some cucumbers, and take out the seeds ; then cut them into very thin slices, and let them steep for two hours in vinegar and salt; drain them well, put them into a stewpan, and keep turning them over the fire, with a small piece of butter and a slice of ham, till they begin to take colour, adding a little flour, and moistening with equal quantities of stock and gravy. If you do not happen to have any gravy let the cucumbers be well coloured before they are taken from the fire. They should then be stewed gently, occasionally skimming off the fat. When they are done add a little cullis to thicken them. Having thus prepared your ragout of cucumber, take any joint of cold roasted mutton (the leg is the best), cut it into thin slices, and put them into the ragout to heat, but take care not to let it boil. MUTTON, HASHED (with Fine Herbs). Cut your meat as directed for Mutton, Hashed (with Poached ' Eggs) ; dress it also in the same manner, and leave it in the saucepan; put 2 ozs. of butter into another saucepan, with a dessert-spoonful of shallots shred small, and set them on the fire, but do not colour them; then take four spoonsful of mushrooms, all shred small, and give them a few turns with the shallots, after which add a dessert-spoonful of shred parsley; stir the whole together, reduce, and pour it on the hash; give the whole a simmer, and then serve with sippets round.