HOU [ 47 ] HOR Benton Sauce.) Chop up some parsley, chibbal, shallots, a clove of garlic, capers, and anchovies; to these add a spoonful of horseradish scraped very finely, a spoonful of oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. HORSERADISH SAUCE, HOT. Slice two onions, fiy them in oil, and when they begin to colour put them into a saucepan, with a glass of white wine, the same of broth, two slices of lemon (peeled), two cloves of garlic, a bay leaf, thyme, basil, and two cloves. Boil these a quarter of an hour, and then strain ; add capers and an anchovy (chopped), pepper, salt, and a spoonful of horseradish boiled to a pulp ; warm the whole without boiling. HORSERADISH VINEGAR. Pour a quart of the best vinegar on 3 ozs. of scraped horseradish, which is in perfection in November, and add thereto I oz. of shallot and 1 drachm of Cayenne. Let it stand a week, and you will have a good accompaniment for cold beef or salads. ■ HOSE. See Stockings. HOT PINT, SCOTCH. Put two quarts of strong ale upon the fire in a tea-kettle, with sugar, nutmeg, ginger, and lemon zest; put a pint of Madeira or sherry, with half a pint of brandy, into a large tankard or jug, with eight or ten yolks well beaten. Mix all well together, and when the sugar is dissolved let the ale boil; mix two or three spoonsful with the ingredients in a jug, and then pour in the ale from the tea-kettle from as great a height as your arm can reach; put it again into a tea-kettle, and pour it backwards and forwards two or three tl ITl G S . HOTCHPOTCH. Take some old peas, and stew them in a little water, with some onions and a beef or ham bone. In the meanwhile fry some mutton chops well seasoned to a nice colour, and about an hour before serving put them into a stewpan ; pour the peas, &c., over, add a little butter rolled in flour, and stew them. HOTCHPOTCH OF MUTTON. Stew green peas, lettuce, and onions in a little water with a bone of beef. While these are doing fry some mutton or lamb steaks seasoned, and three quarters of an hour before dinner put the steaks into a pan, with the vegetables over them ; stew, and serve the whole together in a tureen. A knuckle of veal or scrag of mutton may be done in the same way, adding some butter rolled in flour. HOTCHPOTCH OF OX-TAIL. Cut the tail at the joints, and clean it well; cover the bottom of a saucepan with the parings of butchers' meat, and put in the tail, adding onions, carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, a bay leaf, a clove of garlic, thyme, basil, and two cloves. Moisten the whole well, but do not cover the meat with soup ; lay on some slices of bacon, make it boil, cover it with paper, and put it upon a moderate fire. Let it simmer four or five hours, and when done enough it will come off the bone; drain, and serve it up with a ragout of roots and butter. HOTCHPOTCH SOUP. Blanch some carrots, turnips, and celery, cut in pieces of an equal length; put them into some clear brown stock, and boil them for about an hour. In tlie meanwhile stew a few mutton chops, and just before it is served put them into the soup. Cut some crusts of bread into thin slices, trim and soak them separately in some broth, lay them carefully in a tureen, and pour the soup, with the meat and vegetables, on them. Do this gently, so that the bread may not be brolcen. HOTTENTOT PIE. Bone two calves' feet, and add chitterlings boiled and chopped small; next take two cliickens, cut them up as for eating, and put them into a stewpan with two sweet- breads, a quart of veal gravy, ^ oz. of morels, -Cayenne pepper, and salt. Stew the whole over a gentle fire for an hour, then add six or eight forcemeat balls that have been boiled, and the yolks of four hard eggs, and lay them in a good raised crust previously baked for the purpose. Strew over the top some green peas or as- paragus tops, and send it to table without a cover. HOUSE. In the choice of a residence it IS not always possible to satisfy our wishes. It may be necessary that we should live in one particular neighbourhood or town, and some- times it is important to establish ourselves in one particular situation; therefore we must overlook many disadvantages, and forego many things that we fancy essential to our comfort. On these points the disposition and temper are much concerned; in fact, they have more to do with them and with everything than people are at all aware of, A worldly-minded person, or one who has a grumbling, dissatisfied temper, will find difficulties, annoyances, and objections in almost everything, while a cheerful, thankful t spirit will see all things that cannot be avoided in a pleasant light, and turn to good account what others would mourn over in despair. It is impossible to meet with everj'- thing we want and like combined. We may spend day after day in seeking for something upon which we have set our mind, and ever finding that something connected with dis- agreeables which are of more real moment than itself. Situation, however, should be as much as possible considered, because it has much to do with health. A low situation is seldom healthy, especially in towns, and this should be avoided if there is a possibility of doing so.