LOG LOB [ 161 ] LOBSTERS, POTTED. Take out the mea* as whole as you can, spHt the tail, and remove, the gut. If the inside is not very moist add a little water. Season with mace, nutmeg, white pepper, salt, and one or two cloves in the finest powder. Put a little butter at the bottom of a pan, and the lobsters smoothly over it, with bay leaves between; cover them with butter, and bake thera gently. When done pour the whole on the bottom of a sieve, and with a fork lay the pieces in potting jars, some of each sort, with the seasoning about it. When cold pour clarified butter over it, but not hot. It will be good the day after it is done, and, if very highly seasoned and thickly covered with butter, will keep some time. Potted lobster may be used cold, or as a fricassee, with cream sauce. LOBSTERS, SAUCE FOR. Bruise the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs with a spoon, or pound them in a mortar with a very little water, and the soft inner part or spawn of the fish; rub thera till quite smooth with a tea-spoonful of made mustard, two table-spoonsful of olive oil^ and five of vinegar, and season with a little Cayenne pepper and salt. Some add to thi& elder or tarragon vinegar, or the essence of anchovy. LOCK. A well-known contrivance for fasten* ing doors, chests, or the like, and which is generally opened with a key. From the different structure of locks adapted to various purposes they acquire different names. Those fixed on outer doors are called stop-locks; those on chamber doors spring-locks; and such as are affixed to trunks are known by the name of padlocks, trunk-locks, &c. Of these the spring-lock is the principal, both on account of its more general utility, and for the curious intricacy of its structure. Its chief constituent parts are the main-plate, cover-plate, and pin- hole. To the first belong the keyhole, top-hook, cross-wards, bolt-toe or bolt-knab, draw-back spring-tumbler, pin of the tumbler, and staples. With the cover-plate are connected a pin, main- ward, cross-ward, and step-ward, or dap-ward. Lastly, the pin-hole corresponds with the hook- ward, main cross-ward, shank, pot or beard, bow- ward, and bit. The excellence of locks consists in the security they afford ; and, as numberless schemes are con- tinually brought forward by designing men to elude every contrivance of the most ingenious mechanics, the invention of a durable lock, so constructed as to render it impossible for any person to open it without the proper key, has ever been an object of considerable importance. To invent such a fastening Bramah, Chubb, Friend, and many others have devised locks, known by their names, all more or less ex- cellent, but which cannot be rendered in- VOL. II. telligible without many drawings and lengthy descriptions. Of some other curious inventions for addi-. tional security we can only give a passing notice. Some locks have been made in which the action depends on the key being a powerful magnet. In others the difficulty of opening is increased by requiring a peculiar method of applying the key; but, in addition to the circumstance that the secret must be known to several persons, these contrivances have the disadvantage of being very inconvenient in use. As a mere mechanical curiosity we may refer to one contrived by Mr. Thomas Arkwright, and described in the eighteenth volume of the " Transactions of the Society of Arts," pp. 239-242, in which a key with two bits, and requiring eight or nine distinct movements in the act of unlocking, is used with a double lock capable of shooting two distinct bolts. In Mr. Lawsou's lock, referred to by Holland, there is a sliding curtain, by which, it is stated, " the keyhole is so perfectly closed during the act of unlocking, that it would be impossible to move the bolt while a pick re- mains in the aperture." In Gottlieb's lock, patented in 1829, a piece of paper is so placed that no key can be put in without perforating it, and that it cannot be removed excepting by an application of the proper key; and, to prevent the possibility of substituting a fresh paper, its inventor proposed to use pieces bearing some device, and torn from a cheque- book, which would serve as a tally. In 1831 a patent was obtained by Mr. Rutherford, of Jedburgh, for the application of a stop-plate to the bolt of a lock in such a manner that it should be impossible to open the lock with its own key until, by the action of clockwork with- in or connected with the lock, the stop-plate should be brought into a certain position. By this contrivance a person locking up a bank- safe, cash-box, or a package intended to be sent to a distance, may so arrange the lock that it cannot be opened until the expiration of a certain number of hours. Many contrivances have been effected for attaching an alarum to locks, by which the inti'oduction of a false key should ring a bell or fire a pistol. A good alarum lock, acting upon a bell inclosed within the case or box of the lock itself, invented by Mr. Meighan, is described in the " Transactions of the Society of Arts," vol. li., part i., pp. 128-130. The compound locks used for the doors of iron safes, and for similar purposes, though pondei'ous and complicated in their appearance, are in reality of simple construction. Although they often throw out two or three bolts in every direction, that is to say, on each side, and to- wards the top and bottom of the door, these are 74