MUT MUT r 232 ] from the neck or loin, cut off nearly all the fat, beat them well, rub them -with yolk of egg, and then strew over them crumbs of bread, grated nutmeg, pepper, salt, chopped parsley, thyme, and lemon-peel, all powdered. Fry them brown, and serve them with crisped parsley. Veal chops may be done in the same way. MUTTON CHOPS, MAINTENON. Cut a neck of mutton into chops, and beat them flat with a rolling-pin; bruise the yolk of a hard- boiled egg, and mix with chopped sweet herbs, grated bread, nutmeg, salt, and pepper; cover the chops with it, and put each into a piece of well-buttered paper; broil them over a clear fire, turning them often. Serve them in the paper, or with a browned gravy. MUTTON CHOPS (Portuguese Way). Half fry them with sliced onions or shallots, a bay leaf or two, chopped parsley, salt, and pepper; then place forcemeat on a piece of paper for each, and cover the chops with more of the sauce ; twist up the paper, leaving a hole for the bone ; then broil on a gentle fire, and serve with sauce Robert or gravy. MUTTON COLLOPS (1). Take all the lean from a leg of mutton that has hung some time, cut it into slices about the size of half an egg, beat thenj quite fiat, and fry them lightly in lard, with some chopped parsley, shallots, mushrooms, pepper, and salt; then put them into a stewpan, adding to the above seasoning a few slices of veal and ham; cover them with bacon, let them simmer for half an hour, and put in half^ glass of white wine and some stock. When quite done take out the mutton, drain, and dish it ; add a little cuUis to the sauce, re- duce it, skim, and strain it over the coUops. MUTTON COLLOPS (2). Take a leg of mutton that has hung some time, and cut it into three coUops ; take out all the sinews, season the collops with salt, pepper, beaten mace, some shred parsley, thyme, and two shallots; put a large piece of butter into a stewpan, and when it is quite hot put in all the collops, and keep stirring them with a wooden spoon tjU they are three parts done ; put in half a pint of good mutton gravy, and some lemon juice thickened with butter and flour; let them simmer four or five minutes, not longer, or they will be hard ; lay them in a dish, and pour the sauce over them. MUTTON COLLOPS A LA PERIGORD, Cut your mutton in thinner slices than usual, put them into a marinade of oil and sweet herbs, and, having lajn in this for some time, braise them with the same materials as mutton collops, adding marinade and chopped truffles. Serve them with a ragout of the latter. MUTTON, CURRIED. From a fine loin of ^nutto^ take off all the fat, and cut the moat into dice ; cut some onions also into dice, and fry them. When nearly done add the meat and curry powder, in the proportion of a table-spoon- ful to each pound of meat, and fry them all lightly. When almost brown pour in two cups- ful of water, put the whole into a stewpan, cover, and let it simmer for an hour or more, accord- ing to the quantity. Have some rice boiled veiy dry in a separate dish. Some persons add a little pickle. MUTTON CUTLETS. See Cutlets. MUTTON CUTLETS, BREADED. Trim and season your cutlets with pepper and salt, put them into some melted butter, and when they have imbibed a sufiicient quantity of it take them out, and cover them entirely with bread crumbs; give the cutlets a good shape, and broil them over a clear fire. Take care not to do the cutlets too much to burn the bread. MUTTON CUTLETS, BROILED. These may be taken from the loin or the best part of the neck, but the former are generally preferred. Trim off a portion of the fat, or the whole of it unless it be liked, pepper the cutlets, beat the gridiron, rub it with a bit of mutton suet, broil the cutlets over a brisk fire, and turn them often until they are done. This, for the generality of eaters, will be in about eight minutes if they are not more than half an inch thick, which they should not be. French cooks season them with pepper and salt, and give them a light coating of dis- solved butter or of oil before they are laid to the fire; and we have found the cutlets so managed e.^tremely good. MUTTON CUTLETS IN CAUL. Lard and braise a dozen mutton cutlets as for La SouBiSE, and place the weight on them while they are cooling. When cold wrap them in onions prepared as follows :—Cut twelve onions into dice; blanch and cool them; then do them up in a little butter, with pepper, salt, garlic, bay leaf, and nutmeg; add to these two ladlesful of veloute, stir in the yolks of four eggs, and reduce the onions to a paste. As soon as it is cold use it as above mentioned. Besides this put on each cutlet a pig's caul, lay them in a deep dish, and bake them to a nice colour. Serve them very hot with a demi- glaze. MUTTON CUTLETS WITH CUCUM- BERS. Choose your cutlets rather thicker than usual; beat and lard them with bacon rolled in salt, pepper, and spices; put them into a pan with a little melted butter; brown, and then trini them. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon and veal, two carrots cut in pieces, three onions, two cloves, a bay leaf, and a little thyme; lay your cutlets on this, cover them with bacon, pour in a ladleful of stQck, and simmer the