PLU POI [ 343 ] PtUM PUDDING WITH BREAD AND APPLE. Beat eight eggs in a quart of milk; bread, suet, currants or plums, and apples, of each 8 ozs.; half a glass of brandy, or a glass of wine, with sugar and nutmeg. Boil for three hours, and serve with a wine sauce. It may be thickened over the fire, and baked in a bordered or covered dish. PLUMMER'S PILLS. These, called also compound calomel pills, are thus prepared:— Take calomel and brown sulphuret of anti- mony, of each 1 drachm; guaiac resin in powder, 2 drachms. Rub them together until they be thoroughly mixed, then add as much molasses as will form them into a mass of the proper consistence. These pills were recommended to the attention of the public about forty years ago by Dr. Plummer, whose name they long bore. He represented them as a very useful alterative, and on his authority they were at one time much employed. They are good in doses of from 5 to 10 grains in chronic skin diseases, liver affections, and dyspepsia. PLUMS, CANDIED. Choose plums of a nice shape and good size, cut them in halves, lay them on a large shallow dish, strew powder sugar over, and put them in a moderate oven tightly closed. In half an hour's time take them out, and place the plums one by one on glass plates to dry. PLUMS, CLEAR CAKES OF. Fill a jar with the white pear plums, and set it in a saucepan of boiling water on the fire. When sufficiently done let the clear juice run from it, and to every pint of it add an equal quantity of sugar boiled to candy height; put the juice to the syrup, set It on the fire, and keep stirring it till the whole is quite hot, but not boiling; then pour it into glasses, and dry the cakes in a stove. PLUMS WITH JELLY. When the plums are preserved in their first sugar, drain and strain the syrup through a jelly bag; take some ripe plums and codlins, put them into a sauce- pan with as much water as will cover them, and set them on the fire. When quite soft press out the juice, strain it, and for every pint of juice boil 1 lb. of sugar to souffle; boil the juice a little, then add the syrup and plums, and boil the wh(?le together; take it off, and when it has settled a little skim and pour it into glasses. A little scraped ginger soaked in water for two or three days, and boiled with the above, imparts a fine flavour to the jelly. PLUMS PRESERVED DRY. Gather the plums when full grown and just turning colour, prick and put them into a saucepan of cold water, set them on the fire until the water is on the point of boiling, then take them out, drain and boil them well in some clarified sugar, let them settle, and then boil them again. If they shrink, and will not take the sugar, prick them as they lie in the pan, and then give them another boil; skim and set them by. The next day add some more sugar, boiled to souffle, to the fruit and syrup; then do them together, and place them in a stove till next day, when drain the plums from the syrup, sprinkle a little powder sugar over, and dry them in a stove. PLUMS PRESERVED LIQUID. Gather the plums green, firm, and when the stone may be extracted with ease; cut the stalks close, and prick the fruit in several places, especially round the stalk; then place them in a sauce- pan of water over the fire, and as soon as the water is ready to boil take the saucepan from the fire; in twenty-four hours replace the plums in the same water on a gentle fire, with a small quantity of verjuice to preserve their colour. Keep the water hot, without allowing it to boil, for three hours, stirring it occasionally. When the fruit is perfectly green increase the heat till the plums rise to the surface, when they must be taken out and thrown into cold water, which change frequently till the plums are perfectly cold ; then drain them. Put the fruit in some sugar boiled to la nappe; boil it up a few times, adding a little water; skim, and then pour the whole into a pan. The next two days drain off the syrup, and increase the degree of boiling each day; the third and fourth days boil the fruit with the syrup, keeping it covered, and increasing the degree until the last time it reaches to perle. Put the preserve into pots, and place them for two days in a stove. The same fruit may be preserved dry also. The operation is the same, but the syrup is drained off, and the plums laid on tin plates before they are put into the stove. POELEE. Take 2 lbs. of veal, 2 lbs. of bacon, two large carrots, and three onions; cut all these into dice, and put them into a stewpan, with 1 lb. of butter, the juice of three or four lemons, four cloves, two bay leaves bruised, a little thyme, salt, and pepper; set it over a good fire, and when pretty well reduced add a ladleful of pot settlings. As soon as the whole is about half done take it off, and set it by for use. POISONS. (See Antidotes, Corkosivb ScBLiMATE, &c.) More copious details will be found under the names of the poisons most commonly occurrent; but we will here give, for more prompt reference, an epitome of the symptoms and remedies relative to each.