Dor tlK< killsmells beyond endurance, that I really began to fear that a dissecting No. I.] WEDNESDAY, 24th FEBRUARY. [Price id, TO OUR READERS. Drspite of every obstacle, our little bark is now fairly launched upon the ocean of public opinion. Tempests, no doubt, will assail us—and rocks and shoals betimes, may threaten our destruction—but our vessel is stoutly built—our crew hardy and vigorous—and we bear with us the best wishes of numerous and hearty friends. We hope then, that braving" every danger, we may finish our first cruise in safety, have reason to exclaim with Prospero, " Your breath has filled our sails I" That is " a consummation most devoutly to be wishedand to eflffict it we will exert our every energy. A statement of our principles we have already laid before our Svib- scribers. We have, however, just one observation to oflfer for the benefit of those Gentlemen, who have objected to the introduction of what they have been pleased to call "personal reflections." It would have been as well had they reserved the eructations of their censure, until after mature consideration of the real nature of such reflections as may from time to time appear in our sheets—as also the object of their insertion. A great man was of opinion, that " the dri/ way of writing is neither instructive nor pleasing." He strongly recommends such reflections and hints that " nothing relating to the conduct of life, or the springs of action in mankind, can be found useless"'—his maxim was " Homo sum, hnmanum nihil a me alienum puto." THE MEDICAL STUDENT. He who hath bent him o'er the dead.—Gaiour. I CAME to town at the usual time, and after taking lodgings, and going through all the etcetera of a first arrival, I went to join the Annual Surgical and Anatomical classes, and to procure a ticket for the dis- secting room. Desirous as I was to make myself master of the healing art, I had never entered into a dissecting room, and as one naturally feels a little tremor in his first approach to a place which is so much maledicted, I begged a friend to whom the study was not new, to introduce me into this penetralia of Anatomy. My friend was one of those sage individuals who reckon surprise the worst of all evils, and therefore, duly warned me of all the various annoyances, with which ray senses were to be assailed; besides, it seemed he had a kind of turn for the horrible, in description, for he talked so much of sights and2 room would prove no faint resemblance to the infernal regions. The next day he was to initiate me into the mysteries, and expecting to find some agreement between the place and his description, I took the pre- caution of furnishing myself with snuff-box and cigars ; I soon found, however, that my friend's m«mory had been considerably assisted by imagieation, in framing a description of this notable place, yet the whole affair seemed well enough fitted for the purpose it was intended to serve. Lest investigation should be made into its contents, the first door through which I passed was furnished with a couple of peep holes to reconnoitre invaders, it was defended by a warden with a copper nose, little red eyes, small teeth, short neck, to be brief, exceeding fierce, and bears a wondrous resemblance to a bull dog. We went along a short dark passage, and before my amusement at the appearance of the sentry had time to subside, my friend exclaimed, here is the place ! Step in first, exclaimed I, at the same time taking out my box and inhaling a hearty pinch, which I had hardly done when I found myself shoved in. Judge of my surprise when I found a large clean well lighted room, having a well washed leaden floor. The furniture of the place consisted of a decent assortment of three-legged stools, by no means, however, of the Isosceles description, and of several low tables, supporting sundry remnants of decayed humanity, over which the modesty! (?) of the students or porter had flung cloths of green baize; these, with a few amputating knives and dissecting instruments, which the uninitiated might have mistaken for a Burking apparatus; and some adhesive plaster for the use of any student who might cut his finger, which the phantasy of terror might easily convert into a salvo for the mouth of some unhappy victim, constituted the useful furniture of the place, and then by way of ornament there were skulls, spines, leg and arm bones hanging every where on the wall, forming a most respectable anatomical armoury. Here grinned a skull—here hung an arm—here swung a leg in a menacing posture, as if al)Out to kick the intruder. The favourable account which has been given of the room cannot, however, be extended to its inmates. They consisted mostly of persons of that ill-favoured description which is generally attributed to medical students. Whatever might be the cause of this, it certainly did not arise from hard application to th^ study of anatomy; most of them to be sure, had on little black glazed gowns, by way, we presume, of indicating what they should have been at; but this seemed to be all the use of the gowns, for the most of them were sitting round a blazing fire, some singing, some smoking, others making the jest and laugh to circulate, and a still larger class doing absolutely nothing; notwith- standing, there were some few who were engaged in reading or ex- plaining the bones to their less enlightened neighbours. f To be continued. J TO THE EDITORS OF THE SCALPF.L. A dog once lay on some hay in a stable, a hungry cow came to partake of it, and the dog would neither eat himself, nor permit the cow to partake of it. See fable of the " dog in the manger.'''* This fable is every day brought to my mind when \ look around me and see the conduct of sundry wiseacres who neither attend to the lec- tures themselves, nor do they let others attend ! It is at all times unpleasant to animadvert—and more particularly when I find I have to do so upon ray fellow students' conduct; but it !s forced upon inc. What would a student from the Parisian schools say were he to enter our classes ?^ Perhaps the first thing that might ttract his attention, would be a piece of chewed paper smack overliiseye, after this obstruction to his visual organs is removed, he looks about and sees one stude—oh, 1 was 2foino^ to say student—one g-enius poking his opposite neighbour's head with a stick, who turns round, and his ear is anointed with the juice of " citras aurantiuni" while on the other side he feels from some unknown hand a merciless tug at his hair. Look at that corner, there sit the choice blades—those are the fellows for a row—that chap who is so assiduously distributing oranges from the pockets of his rough pea jacket, is enjoining all around him to eat the inside, and to bestow " the cortex" upon the class at large, and most scrupulously do they obey his injunctions—some are sucking the juice, and others are exerting the flexor and extensor muscles, of the right superior extremity, in flinging the pulp with no little force at their opposite neighbours pericraniuras. All this time the distributor him- self, and another Imp beside him are doing the thing in a wholesale style, entire fruits replete with citric acid, which burst on the faces of sundry, ejecting their juice into the eyes of those around, whereby the pupil contracts, the " orbicularis palpebrarum" closes, an effusion of lachrymose takes place ; the "orbicularis oris" opens, and by the lan- guage of the sufferers you are made to understand that they desire to accelerate the departure of their tormentors even unto Tophet. Multitudes of contusions are suffered—Ecchymoses are given—the operation of " nasal phlebotomy,"* is performed to perfection. Thus they continue till the end of the hour; when out they rush—overwhelm poor H h, put out the gas—run shrieking, howling, yelling, and making the most diabolical riot imaginable; the door at the foot of the stair is shut, and the row redoubles, till, burning with shame for the conduct of his pupils, the lecturer himself comes out and restores order with the greatest difficulty. Now, I would ask a question, " What do you come to coHege for ?" If you come to study for a degree, most assuredly this is not the way to get it; and if you don't want to study, then why " dog-like" do you hinder those who would study ? Do you know what you lose ? The lectures of a first-rate anatomist—a splendid operator and lithotomist— and last, but not least, your own time !! We have supposed the pre- sence of a foreigner who returns home, and diligently reports that he never saw so disorderly and blackguardly a set in his life I In another class all is not as it should be; what means these empty bottles ? on this is labelled " caryophyllse"—on that " cassiae cortex" —on another " myristicse"—on a fourth " piper cubebse" all these passed through my hands a few minutes back replete, but lo! they have yqt turned vozci?/ Ah! how savoury some breaths smell of nassia, cinna- mon, cloves, mace, nutmeg, and allspice. Gentlemen, no longer lower yourselves by stealing what you can get for a few pence, I said " Gen- tlemen," but I feel assured that *' Gentlemen'' did not so spice them- selves ; and were I in the chair of Materia Medica, I should take care along Avith the spices, the delinquents should swallow a little nicotine, veratrine, or some such excellent cure for liquorish theft! Medecillus. to the editors of the scalpel. Observing in your Prospectus, that Satire was a weapon intended to be employed in the Reform of abuses, and in the correction of improper manners, I beg your insertion of a few remarks, which, though not very satirical, will, no doubt, be accounted of rather a caustic nature. My object will be satisfactorily accomplished, if the lapis infernalis of Nasal phlebotomy" is a popular remedy fm T^ersondii affront; not much practised however, in Surgery, because the physician is liable to a similar oneration from the hand of the patient, whereby the disease is aggi-avated.4' these observations shall tend to subdue the unhealthy granulations K of levity, foppery, and hair, which unadorn a well-known student in our dissecting- room. We assemble there to pursue our Anatomical knowledge by dissection; but who ever saw a " Scalpel" in his hand ? instead, he clutches a hug-e Merchaum or a, three inch cuttie^ from the noisome recesses of which, belch forth clouds of suffocating- smoke, more annoying and offensive to us, who are uncontaminated by the noxious and abominable weed, than the concentrated effluvia of half-a- dozen " Mesh Tubs."" On the Trong-ate too, he is equally conspicuous by his glazed Tile and Shepherd's plaid, the right of wearing which his southern tongue belies, shewing of his handsome foot and imperial tuft before the Ladies, who, indeed, must form a very poor opinion of the staidness, sobriety, and general conduct of the genus medicus if they reg-ard this Gentleman as a true specimen. 1 could enlarge, but, verbum sat—1 hope he will appreciate the leniency of these few remarks, designed solely for his good*—amend his manners—attend to his Pharmacopaeia and his " scalpel"—make decent his facial appear- ance, as far as it is under his control, and leave capillary attraction to " Whisker'd Pandoors" and to " Fierce Hussars." Hoping-, Mr. Editor, that success will attend the " Scalpel,*' 1 remain, &c. &c. Anti-Puppy. NATURAL HISTORY.—visit to our zoological gardens. " Walk in, Ladies and Gentlemen, w^alk in, we have got here a splendid collection of rare and beautiful specimens of animated nature. Please observe that larg-e cage, marked No. L Its inhabitant is one of the tribe of moon-faced apes. It presents the usual characteristics. This individual's character may be stated in three words : it is very snappish—very dull—and very stupid. No. II. is a very nimble little animal—it has rather a " stage struck " appearance. We pass on to No. III. This is one of the finest of the Baboon species in this country. Our keeper has made it quite a pet—he calls it Micky Mill-un. The bump marked * amativeness ' is largely developed.f But we have now g-ot to this apartment, which contains a very fine specimen of the Onegar^ or Wild Ass, presented by Mr. Drymore, to whose fellow feeling and brotherly regard, this much misrepresented class of animals owe much. It presents the usual quantum of dulness and stolidity. f To be Continued. J Where Wdc that Gent. g"oino^ last night with his Laplanders dress, and Glazed Tile? " He was up to no good," we fear. We will have a sharp *' look out." Holy Saint Francis ! where on earth was the little Gentleman, with the little hat, going with the little Lady ? (Query)—To a tripe shop ? TO MEDICAL STUDENTS. We have been informed that the operation of Lithotomy, will be per- formed in the Royal Infirmary on Thursday next, the 25th Instant, an account of which will appear in our next. There are two other cases of stone in the bladder, at present in the House. *" And for fun."—Prm^er's Devil. t See " An account of the Craniology of Baboons, &c, by Frederick Dolt, F. R. S." GLASGOW:—PRINTED BY RICHARDSON, HUTCHISON, & Co. AND SOLD BY CHARLES DEWAR, BOOKSELLER, opposite the COI-LEGE.No. II.] WEDNESDAY, 2d MARCH. [Price \d. TO OUR READERS. '* What ! in the name of common sense, are you about to commence another long-winded speech about yourselves," we think we hear some one say. Cease your g-rumbling", (ientle Sir, we are merely al)Out to give our instrument a preparatory sharpening rub or two. Firstly, We wish it to be distinctly understood, that it was never our intention to crush worms or to hilljiies. Secondly, We recommend to certain individuals the study of the words," Honi soit qui mal' y pense." Thirdly, We have done. THE MEDICAL STUDENT.—continued from our last. The general insipidity seemed, indeed, to be a little dispelled when a new comer was observed to enter, and as they were social enough, and glad to obtain any accession to their forces, 1 was soon placed on easy terms with them; any conversation that passed was chiefly about the difl&- culty of obtaining subjects for dissection, which, although some of them were dissecting at the time, they appeared to deplore with remarkable fervor. This was my first introduction to a dissecting room, and the idea I was led to form of it was much more favourable than that which I had anticipated. After some time I became considerably interested in the study, and made the above-mentioned place my principal resort and habitat during the day-time, where I was always to be found unless during class-hours. My anatomical pursuits were soon, however, in- terrupted from sheer want of humai materials on which to operate, yet i still frequented the rooms in the daily hope that something would be procured. After continuing some weeks without supply, I observed two or three students retired more than once into a corner where they appeared to hold a sort of consultation. As I had by this time obtained a kind of dissecting notoriety, I was accosted by one of them and re- quested to take a part in a resurrectionary enterprize. After some hesitation, and after weighing on the one hand the personal risk 1 should encounter, and the apparent inhumanity of the thing; and on the other hand the chance of amusement, and the benefit which would accrue to the interest of science! I consented to bear a part in the expedition. In the bestov/al of places of trust and of importance it is usual, as all are aware, to put certain interrogatories to the person who is about to enjoy them, of course, in my appointment to so weighty an office, I could not miss a due share of questioning, it related chiefly to my ability to sustain a beating, and the answers appeared to the examiners quite satisfactory. Well then, no time was to be lost, and so we resolved to set out that very night; we hired a light jaunting car looking vehicle, into which two of us got, and drove out towards a certain village of barbarous and unpoetical name, which we shall not more particularly mention; while the other two had gone forward on foot with various implements for the occasion, and were duly overtaken by their more expedite companions. By and by we approached the6 scene of our adventures, the nioht was gloomy, the sky was completely overspread with threatening clouds, and every thint^ seemed to corre- spond with our deeds. I cannot tell how far we raii»ht have travelled when our leader suddenly stopped a gunshot's distance from a low stone wall, one was left in the gi}?, and the other three, of whom I was one, proceeded over the wall with the utmost caution, and crept in silence towards a newly made grave, which one of my friends had duly recon- noitred in the day-time, and we immediately set to work to accomplish the main object of our journey; my duty was to see that the watch did not stir, and it was not certainly a very heavy duty, for^hey were both lying asleep before the fire; the other two dug with such zeal and assi- duity, that they were not long in reaching the coffin, and also with such dexterity and quickness as not to awaken the sleepers whom I was sta- tioned to observe; some noise, however, was made in taking the lid off the coffin, by which one of tlie watches was roused from his slumber, but the only action which followed thereupon, was first shaking himself, then shaking the ashes out of his pipe, and lastly, shaking his neighbour who was still enjoying his snooze ; both of them seemed to be in a state of great mistitication, and evinced no signs of pursuit till we reached the wall with our booty, and were hoisting it over with some exertion and a little noise, when a shot was fired, and wisely considering that " he who fights and runs away, may live to fight another day," took to our heels with might and main, dropping our game into some of those rank weeds with which church-yards abound—another shot fol- lowed, which added wings to our flight; and it was not till we had driven about half a mile from the scene of our labours, that we began to think of the inglorious consummation to which our journey would come if we were driven from our point by such " varlets vile," as a brace of lazy watchmen. We resolved therefore, (our courage being marvellously increased, subsequently to a vigorous pull at the brandy bottle) to return on foot and see what was going on. The worthy causes of our discomfiture seemed to us to have thought they had done mighty well in making us run, for they had nearly regained the posi- tion in which we had first found them. Once more then, we got hold of our prize, which they had either not searched for, or else had failed to find, and subjecting our shoulders alternately to our burthen we at length deposited it safely in the bottom of our conveyance; but our troubles did not end here. To he continued in our next. FOR THE SCALPEL. A LEAF FROM THE JOURNAL OF A QUONDAM STUDENT. The tale that 1 unfold to day- No fiction is, bat from the records pure Of truth has been obtained. Rinaldo—the Visionary. * * * The old clock of the College had just tolled the hour of mid- night, as restless and feverish I arose from my studies, and throwing open the window I looked forth on the deserted streets. It was a lovely night; I thought within myself that I had never seen such brilliancy of moonlight; there was not one little cloud in all the expanse of the fir- mament ; millions of millions of stars were visible, but their splendours were dimmed in the broad effulgence of the queen of heaven; not a sound broke on the stillness of the night, all seemed hushed and quiet as the dead, save that in a distant part of the city a solitary light twinkled from a window, indicating, it might be the presence of some midnight revellers, or mayiiap, of sorrowing friends sssembled around the bed of some departing spirit.7 1 had not remained lonof at the window, when suddenly the loud peals of the alarm bells of the city broke on the stillness that had reig-ned around, sounding" as if it had been a message from above, summoning^ sinners to their long and last account! I listened more attentively, and ever and anon I could hear a noise as if the shouting of soiiie distant multitude; speedily the sound came nearer and nearer, and now I could hear the apalling- cry—" Fire ! fire I" in a moment I was on the street, and hurryinir to the quarter whence the alarm proceeded. Numbers of the inhabitants had arisen, and half- dressed were running- in that direction; others roused by the alarm were staring- at the tvindows, " while the sound of the fire engine ratt- ling- along- the streets, seemed like the dead cart of the plag-ue come to hurry away the corpse of the deceased for interment in the church- yard." I still hurried on till I reached the street in which Mr. P 's house was situated—the fire was at the end of the street—I redoubled my speed—when. Merciful Heaven ! what a sight met my eyes I The house that contained ^er was enveloped in the devouring flames! Though many long years have passed since that fatal night, every incident that I beheld is engraven on my withered heart in characters never to be erased ; for a moment 1 stood motionless with horror—but it was only for a moment, for frantic with desperation I rushed into the house ; I reached with the greatest difl&culty the first lobby—there the smoke and flames were dense and overwhelming—I leaped forward and fell headlong—memory can recall no further recollection; there are indeed, at times, faint visions of roofless and blackened walls, and of bruised and mangled bodies borne from the smoking ruins—but all is dim and obscure. Alas ! never more did I behold that lovely form—never did I hear again that laugh of joyous gracefulnesss. It was long, long, ere 1 was restored to the full enjoyment of an unclouded reason, and the societv of mv fellow-men. * * * * ^ L. B K. ROYAL INFIRMARY.—Operation of Lithotomy. 25th Feb.—This day the above operation was performed upon two patients. The following is a short histv'ry of the cases:— Case I. R. D. setat. 12, admitted 21st instant. Since infancy he has been subject to frequent and painful micturition—urine suddenly stop- ping whilst in full stream, until about three years ago, since which time it has not suffered the usual interruption;—pain confined to the hypo- gastric region—always most severe after bodily exertion—no pain along the course of urethra. On introducing a sound, a large stone is detected, firmly adhering to the interior part of the fundus of the bladder, above the symphisis pubis; which situation it retains, independent of position of body, or distension of bladder—general health good. This boy's case was very unfavourable for operation; according to report, he was sounded when only nine months old, and stone detected; since that time no notice had been taken of the disease, until the week previous to his admission, when he was sounded a second time, and a calculus of large size, and evidently encysted, was felt in the above described situ- ation. The only circumstances in his favour are his age, and state of his general health. Operation —The Theatre was crowded long before the hour. The lateral operation was performed by Dr. M*Farlane, with his usual dex- terity and presence of mind. His situation was a trying one, and by no means enviable. The patient was on the table upwards of half an hour, during which time, several ineff"ectual attempts were made to extract the stone, by grasping a portion that projected beyond the Sac. This portion was at length broken olF, when the point of the finger could be8 introduced into the Sac itself; the scoope was then passed along* the fino;er, and the operator soon succeeded in separating the calculus from its attachment, and turning' it out of the bladder. Ca?e 11. G. H. aetat four, troubled for twelve months past, with fre- quent and painful micturition. Pain chiefly referred to glans peuis— Calculus distinctly felt—general health good. Operation.—The lateral operation was performed in this case also. The stone was extracted without any difficulty. Both cases have since being doing well. DIGESTION. From Dr, Jas. Johnson's work on " Indigestiony 3rc." " This process, taken in its most general and most proper sense, may be defined * the conversion of dead into living matter.' At all events, it is the conversion of dead animal and vegetable substances, into an animalized fluid, qualified to enter into the current of the circulation, and there become part and parcel of the living machine. No other fluid, not even milk from the living udder, can be poured into the blood-vessels, without the risk of life, and, therefore, we are authorised to conclude, that the chyle is a vitalized fluid like the blood itself. * * * The food is masticated by the teeth, and is then propelled into the stomach, incorporated with a quantity of saliva. In the stomach, this mass is applied to the internal surface of the organ, and layer after layer is there converted into chyme, by the gastic secretion, or some vital power of which we are ignorant, and moved forward to the pyloric orifice, through which it is gradually propelled into the duodenum. It requires from two to four or five hours for the completion of the diges- tion in the stomach, and sometimes longer than this when the powers of the organ are weak, or the materials difficult of solution. * * In an hour, an hour and a half, or two hours, then the stomach begins to evacuate the digested aliment through the pylorus into the duodenum. In the duodenum the chyme mixes with the bile, and pancreatic secre- tion ; the fluid then becomes more animalized, and as it passes along the intestines, the chyle, or milky nutriment, is taken up by the lacteal vessels, and cari-ied into the torrent of the circulation, by means of the thoracic duct. The foecal remains passing along the colon, take a shape and figure in the rectum, and are generally evacuated next morning." We are sure we owe no apology to our readers for presenting them with the above concise and beautiful sketch of the healthy digestive process; though it may not be new to many of them, yet it will bear a second perusal.—Editors. TO CORRESPONDENTS. " Boxiana'* was received. It gives an account of what we consider a very disgraceful scene—the late game at Jisty-cuffs in the Operating Theatre, Infirmary. Our opinion is that Glasgow Green would have aflforded to the two Gents, in question, a much more suitable ^Aea^rc for the varied display of their attainments in that branch of science, with which they favoured the spectators. We have received a communication from the keeper of our Zoological Gardens, stating that he has been under the necessity of closing his interesting exhibition for this season, as some of the animals have un- fortunately become rabid, and the remainder are exhibiting symptoms of that direful and affecting malady—" Scalpel"-phobia. A continuance of " L. B k's" favours is requested. " Pedestrian us" in our next, his letter arrived too late for insertion &i our present number. GLASGOW:_PRINTED BY RICHARDSON, HUTCHISON, & Co. To whom all Communications, Post-paid^ are to be addressed.