10 The Position of Anatomy. side of it, cutting the Tvall of the embryonic spinal cord instead of the central canal, and showing the hemisphere, outgrowths, which would not be shown had the section been exactly median. The infundibuimn, the optic and mammillary recesses of the thalamic brain, the striate part of the hemisphere bi-ain with the hypophysis from the primitive mouth cavity can all be noted. In Fig. 8 of Plate VIII. the anteiior and posterior divisions of the central olfactory apparatus, the striatum, the third and lateral ventricles, the choroid plexus, the nasal, and the superior and inferior maxillary regions of the face, as well as the remaining structures, the names of which are given in full, are to be observed. In addition to the head end of the embryo in Plate III., the heart, the lungs, the curve formed by the ribs, the liver, the intestinal tube, the Wolffian body, the genital eminence and tail are all shown. Plate IV. represents a series of nine human foetuses, ■with the brain and spinal cord of a tenth. They varied in length from cm. to 20 cm., natural size (head and trunk measurement, the head extended on the trunk, not flexed, as in the ordinary intra-uterine position). They are all reduced to about one-third the size of nature. Four of the smaller ones, from 7i to 11 cm. in length, have been cut along or near the median longitudinal plane, and the two halves lie adjacent to one anolher. All the four show the transitory Assures on the median surface of the hemisphere wall. The presence of these on this aspect is to be correlated with the fact that this part of the Avail at this stage (before the appearance of the callosal fibres) is by far the thmnest portion. The cranial aspect of the hemisphere Avail in these foiu, and at much later stages in Avell-preserA'ed specimens, is,, in my experience, ahvays smooth, it is so even after the; callosal fibres have appeared, at Avhich elate the transitory, fissures of the median aspect of the Avail ha Am disappeared, with one, or at the most, tAvo excexitions. These trau-