I 174 OF THE SKELETON. Parti. trochanter, m the motions of the thigh Inwards: Both which inconveniencies muft have happened, had the olTa innominata been complete here, and of fufficient thicknefs and ftrength to ferve as the fixed point of thefe mufcles. Tlie bowels fomeiimes make their way through the niche for. the veffels, at the upper part of this thyroid hole ; and this caufes a hernia in this place [b). In the external furface of the olTa innominata, near the outfide of the great hole, a large deep cavity is formed by all the three bones conjunclly : For the os pubis conflitutes about one fifth, the os ilium makes fomething lefs than two fifths, and the os ifehium as much more than two fifths. The brims of this cavity are very high, and are ftill much more enlarged by the ligamentous cartilage, with which they are tipped in a recent fubjedf. From this form of the cavity it has been called acetabulum; and for a diftinguifliing character the name of the bone that con- rtitutes the largeft fliare of it is added', therefore acetabu- lum ojfis ifchii (c) is the name this cavity commonly bears. Round the bafe of the fupercilia the bone is rough and un- equal, where the capfular ligament of the articulation is fixed. The brims at the upper and back part of the ace- tabulum are much larger and higher than any where clfe; which is very neceflary to prevent the head of the femur from flipping out of its cavity at this place, where the whole weight of the body bears upon it, and confequently would otherwife be in perpetual danger of thrufling it out. As thefe brims are extended downwards and forwards, they become lefs; and at their internal lower part a breach is made in them ; from the one fide of which to the other, a ligament is placed in the recent fubje£l; under which a large hole is left, which contains a fatty cellular fubftance and veflels. The reafon of which appearance has afforded matter (//) Memoires dc I’acad. de chirurgic, tom I, p. 7O9. &c. [c) CoxaCj coxcndicTs.