Chap. IL BONES OF THE TRUNK. 189 called the whole fternum enjtformecomparing the two firll bones to the handle, and this appendix to the blade of a fword. This third bone is fcldom of the fame figure, magnitude, or fituation, in any two fubjedls; for fomc- times it is a plain triangular bone, with one of the angles below, and perpendicular to the middle of the upper fide, by which it is connedled to the fccond bone In other people the point is turned to one fide, or obliquely for- wards or backwards. Frequently it is all nearly of an equal breadth, and in feveral fubjedls it is bifurcated ; whence fome writers give it the name of furcella or furcula inferior ; or elfe it is unolTified in the middle In the greatcll number of adults it is offified, aud tipped with a cartilage ; in fome, one half of it is cartilaginous ; and in others, it is all in a cartilaginous flate. Generally feveral oblique ligaments, fixed at one end to the cartilages of the' ribs, and by the other to the outer furface of the xiphoid bone, connect it firmly to thofe cartilages {f). So many different ways this fmall bone may be formed without any inconvenience: But then fome of thefe pofi- tlons may be fo diredled, as to bring on a great train of ill confequences; particularly when the lower end is offified, and is too much turned outw’ards or inwards (^), or when the conjundlion of this appendix with the fecond bone is too weak {h). The fternum is joined by cartilages to the feven upper ribs unlefs when the firft coalefces with it in an intimate union of fubftance ; and its unequal cavity on each fide of its up- per end is fitted for the ends of the clavicles. The (y) Weitbrecht, Syndefmolog. p. Iir., (a) Rolfinc. Diflcrt. Anat. lib. 2. cap. 41. Paaw dc ofiib. pars j, cap. 3. & pars 3. cap. 3. Codronchi dc prolapfu cartilagin. mucronat. {b) P4aw.de oflib. pars i.eap. 3. & pars. 3. cap. 3.—Borrich. Aft. Hafn vol. 5. ob. 79.—Donet. .Sepulchrct. Anat. tom. 2. lib. 3. § j. Append, ad, •bf. 8. et ibid. § 7- obf. 19.