Part ir. 391 OF MUSCULAR MOTION. of irriiabllity. It would be of mucli importance to know the remedies, which particularly conduce to excite irrita* bility, when it is languid, or to diminifh it when it is too great. Opium, and the other narcotics, camphor, can- tharides, acrid poifons, bark, the ele£lric fliofk fliew a clear influx of animal fpirits in the produdlion of irritabi- lity. 4. That It is dlfl'erent from the fentient faculty, and therefore by no means depends upon the nerves, appears partly from other reafons, and partly from tlie irritability of vegetables. Though T even willr to take into account fome phenomena of the dionsca mufcipula, according to Ellis’s obfervations, or of the hedyfarum or the antherx of certain other plants, I would be averfe to compare this contractile power of fome parts of vegetables with irritabi- lity, for the internal tremor of the conllltuent parts, which makes the particular character of irritability, is wanting in all vegetables; we fee contraftion and motion alone, which are alfo obfervable in other elaflic bodies, where we fup- pofe no irritability to exift. The fentient faculty, depend- ing folely upon the nerves, although it has been regarded as one and the fame thing with Irritability, has been more ftrongly oppofed by Haller’s opponents, De Haen, Whyte, Le Cat, Gerhard, 8cc. than irritability itfelf. The fenfi- bility of the parts is to be refen'ed both to the various quantity of the nerves, their fituation and (late, according to Haller’s and Cadell’s experiments, and to the various violence of irritation', and the nature of the irritating- or O offending body; for fome parts are frequently much af- fe£led at one time and lefs at another, and Haller thinks that fome of them may fometlmes be altogether infenfiblc. I fliall not repeat what has been often offered on the opi- nion, that a greater pain having preceded, abforbs a lefs pain follo-w'ing; thus we do not feel the tafte of a drop of wine if we have taken a very fmall quantity of redlificd alcohol