OF THE SKELETON. 142 Part I. any two vertebra (/>). 2. That an ered pofture is the fa- red and firmed, becaufe the furface of contact of the ful- cra is larged, and the weight is mod ‘perpendicular to them (y). 3. That the mufcles which move the fpine aft with greater force in bringing the trunk into an ere£l: podure than in drawing it to any other: For in bending forwards, backwards, or to a fide, the mufcles which perform any of thefe aftions are nearer the centre of motion ; confe- quently the lever with which they a£l is (horter than when the centre of motion is on the part of the vertebra, oppo- fite to that where thefe mufcles are inferred ; which is the cafe in raifing the trunk. This is extremely necedary; fince, in the defle£lIons of the fpine from a perpendicular bearing, the weight of the body foon inclines it in the di- redlion we choofe *, whereas, in raifing us ere£l, this great weight mud be more than countera£l:ed. 4. In calculating the force exerted by the mufcles which move the fpine, we fhould always make allowance for the a£lion of the carti- lages between the vertebrae, which, in every motion from an ere£l podure, mud be dretched on one fide, and com- prefled on the other, to both which they refid; whereas, in raifing the trunk, thefe cartilages aflid by their fpringy ' force (r). 5. We are hence naturally led into the reafon of our height of dature increafing in the morning, and dimlnlfliing at night (j) : for the intermediate cartilages of the vertebrae being prefsed all day long by the weight of our body, become more compa£l and thin in the evening; but, when they are relieved from this prefsure in the night, they again expand themfelves to their former thick- neis: and feeing the bulk of any part mud vary according to (p) Galen, de ufu part. lib. 12. cap. 12. (q) Poaw de olTib. part. 2. cap. 2. (r) Borelli de motu animal, pars I. fchol. ad propof. 58, Parent, Hifloirc de I’acad. des fciences, 1702. (tj Wafle, Philofoph. Tranfadt. ouipb. 383. art. i.