OF'THE ABDOMEN. Chap. XV. branc, and only becomes flefliy at the cartilage of the tenth rib. Here^ its tendon divides into two layers*; the ante- rior layer, with a great portion of the inferior part of the pofterior layer, joins the tendon of the external oblique, and runs over the re£lus to be inferted into the whole length of the linea alba. The pofterior layer joins the ten- don of the tranfverfalis mufcle as low as half-way between the umbilicus and os pubis; but, below this place, only a few fibres of the pofterior layer are feen, and the reft of it paffes before the redbus mufcle, and is inferted into the li- nea alba ; fo that the whole tendon of the external oblique inuicle, wdth the anterior layer of the internal oblique, paftes before the redlus mufcle; and the whole pofterior layer of the Internal oblique, together with the whole ten- don of the tranfverfalis mufcle, excepting at the inferior part,’pafs behind the redfus, and are inferted into the linea alba. At its undermoft part it is inferted into the fore- part of the os pubis. U/e. To affift the former; but it bends the trunk in the reverfe diredllon. Obllquus internus abdominis, Albinus and Wlnflow. Obliquus ajcmdeus, Douglas. 3. Transversalis, Arifes tendinous, but foon becoming flefhy, from the inner or back part of the cartilages of the feven lower ribs, P p 2 where / • To obtain a proper view of the tvVb layers of the tendon of the inter- nal oblique mufcles, both the oblique mufcles Ihould be raifed as far' for- wards as their joiqing near the linea femilunaris; then the tendon before the reflus muft be cut parallel to tlie linea alba, and turned outwards as far as the outer edge of the re^flus ; by which the whole of the reflus is brought into view, and the tendons are preferved. But Douglas direfls to cut the pofterior layer of the internal oblique, where it joins with the tranfvarfa- lis : by this method the reflus is laid bare ; but the ftruflure of the tendir Slops (heath, which iriclofes it, is deftroyed.