6S OF THE SKELETON. Part I. (l) Alorgagn. Adverfcr. 6. auimad. 31. brainy mentioned when d#fcribing the general ft'rufture of ^he cranium, are often very obfervable on its upper part; and its lower and fore parts are marked witl^ the contortions of the anterior lobes of the brain. Through themlddle of this internal furface, where always in children, and foitie- times in old people, the bone is divided, either a ridge ftands out, to which the upper edge of the falx is faftened, or a furrow runs, in which the upper fide of the fuperior longir tudinal finus is lodged; on both thqfe accounts, chirurgical authors juftly forbid the application of the trepan here.— The reafon of this difference in flcnlls is alledged by fomc authors to be this. That in thin fkulls the ridge ftrengthens the bones, and in thick ones there is no occafion for it. To this way of accounting for the phenomenon, it may juftly be ohje'dded, that, generally, very thick fkulls have a large fpine here, and frequently thin oues have only a furrow. Perhaps this variety may be owing to the different times of complete offification of thofe parts in different fubjeGs; for if the two fides of this bone meet before they arrive at their utmoft ex- tent of growth, they unite very firmly, and all their fibres endeaveur to ftretch therhfelves out where there L the leaft refiftance, that is, between the. hemifpheres of the brain. To fupport this reafoning, we may remark, that thofe adults whofe frontal bone Is divided by the fagittal future, never have a ridge in this place. Iirfmediately at the root of this ridge of furrow, there is* a fmall hole, which fomet'imes pierces through the firft table, and, in other fkulls, opens into tht fuperior finus of die ethmoid bone within th'b nofe. In it a little procefs of the falx is lodged; atlda ftuall artery, and forndtimes a TC-in, runs (/^; 'and the fuperior longitudinal finus begins here... This hole, however, is often not entirely proper to the os frontis: for, in feveral fkulls, the lower part is formed